MIND AND BODY

VoL 30	APRIL,	1923__________No.	317

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Enured as second-class matter October 14, /p/d, at the postoffice at New Ulmy Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

O RIGINAL ARTICLES

AND REPRINT^

A NEW PROGRAM OF THE ROCKEFELLER FOUNDATION.*

By Robert McE. Schauffler, M. D., Kansas City, Mo.

Be well—keep well.

A new kind of doctor needed A new kind of teacher needed

Relation of correction of Faulty Posture to this program.

One of the most interesting publications that comes to my desk is the annual report of the Rockefeller Foundation. The income from the vast Foundation endowment, which amounts to nearly nine million dollars a year, is to be distributed, according to the terms of the charter, for the good of humanity throughout the world, the directors of the Foundation in the past havnig devoted large amounts of money for the relief of sufferers from great disasters,

* Read at the meeting of the physical training section of the Missouri Teachers Association.

Digitized by v^ooQle
2

such as war, famine, flood and earthquake. Equal amounts have been devoted to the prevention and cure of epidemic diseases. Special attention has been paid to yellow fever, malaria, hookworm disease and tuberculosis. The campaign naturally divides itself into three headings: (1) Finding out what is the matter with people, (2) preventing spread of the disease to other people and teaching the well people how to avoid the disease, (3) and promoting the cme of those who are already afflicted. This work has been carried on in twenty foreign countries as well as many parts of the United States. Every effort is made to enlist the assistance of the various governments, to educate physicians and health officers and to spread the news to the common people as to how they may avoid the diseases and how they may get well when they have them. As a final part of the program, grants of money have been made to various medical institutions and especially to the building up of a great medical school and hospital in China. In May, 1920, Dr. Flexner made an inspiring address before the Congress of American Physicians and Surgeons, at Atlantic City, on the work of the Foundation. He said that most of the great epidemic diseases had an epidemic home,—a place where the disease was present, more or less, all the time and from which it swept out in

Sreat epidemic waves over the world. For instance, the endemic ome of the yellow fever is in Central America and the West Indies; the endemic home of infantile paralysis is in the Scandinavian Peninsula; the endemic home of influenza is on the Russian border of Turkistan. He further pointed out that there was no mystery about the spread of these diseases; that they were carried by people and travelled as fast as people travelled. Therefore, in these days when commerce unites almost all the peoples of the earth and transportation is so much faster than ever before, these diseases

8read more rapidly and may reach almost every part of the world.

e held out the hope that yellow fever might soon be conquered because we are familiar with the germ of the disease and know that it is carried by certain mosquitoes, and that we have only to hunt down the disease in its endemic home and stamp it out there to put an end forever to the epidemic of yellow fever. The Foundation has almost finished this task. The problem of the other two diseases mentioned is much more difficult, but he said that the only hope for the future is that the great peoples of the world must show the same earnestness in the fight against these diseases that they have shown in the late war to “Save the world for Democracy;" that we will have to spend great sums of money and perhaps sacrifice some lives to follow these diseases to their endemic homes and there stamp them out. Dr. Flexner’s speech aroused the interest and kindled the enthusiasm of some at least of those who heard him, but it was apparently not reported in the press and received no general attention. The Rockefeller Foundation can be depended upon to continue its work and to attempt to secure the co-operation of the nations in this crusade.

This year the report of the Foundation Presents, in addition, a new program, equally inspiring. It might be entitled, “A crusade

Digitized by
3

to teach people to keep well.” It is more than that, it is a campaign to educate people to expect the maximum human efficiency for work, for play, for long life and for healthy children. It contends that the vertical standard "To be up and about and not have a pain,” is not enough; that great numbers of people are not nearly as well as they might be; that their output is not more than a third or a half of what it might be. No man would put up with a machine which was doing only a third of the amount of work it ought to do and which wore out long before its time. To accomplish this purpose the Foundation holds that a new kind doctor is necessary,— a doctor whose interest is not primarily to cure people who are suck, but to keep people well. Asa first step in this direction the Foundation is making large grants of money to Johns-Hopkins and Harvard to build up schools of public health in connection with the medical departments. There will be in effect a new degree—Doctor of Public Health and Physical Welfare. A long campaign of education will be necessary to make this effective. Not only must the new kind of doctor be educated, but the individual must be educated to demand his services and the cities, counties and states must be educated to employ real health experts and to grant necessary funds for that department. In the face of considerable opposition there has been incorporated in the proposed new Missouri state constitution a sentence saying, “It shall be the duty of the State to promote the health of its citizens.” There is a great deal in this simple sentence; it means that if this crusade to improve the health of the community shall become effective no penurious or sectarian citizen can go into court and have the laws or appropriations to promote this purpose declared unconstitutional. As a part of this program we neea medical inspection in the schools in the larger sense of the word, not merely inspection to detect contagious diseases but to discover children who are in any way subnormal, physically or mentally. Those who are truly and permanently subnormal mentally will constitute only a small part. With the majority of such cases if the physical defects are corrected the mental defects will disappear. There is need of co-operation of the press, of doctors, of social agencies, of women’s clubs and health officers to promote this cause. Perhaps the most important thing, after creating a new kind of doctor, is to create a new kind of teacher. Education in America is based on the public school system. If we are to put over this great program we shall first have to sell the cause to the school teachers of America. The majority of them will have to approve and preach the gospel of maximum physical health and a certain number will have to become specialists in the detection of physical diseases and in the measures necessary for prevention and correction. It will be the duty of the State to provide for real medical inspection for schools, for nurses and physical education instructors and also provide certain special schools for groups of children who are seriously afflicted. Recently I spent a day at the Spaulding School for Cnppled Children in Chicago. I have done nothing for a long time winch so aroused my interest and enthusiasm.

Digitized by
This school has been in existence for a number of years. It was a beautiful place where crippled children were tenderly cared for, taught a little book learning and amused the rest of the time; but the general atmosphere of the place was that of a home for incurables. In recent years the whole spirit of the institution has changed. Every effort is made to make the child well or less crippled. It is expected that even if the child cannot be cured its general health will be improved and it will be taught to do all those things with its crippled body which may add to its pleasure in life and which may fit it to earn a living. The teachers are especially selected, there is a Physio-therapy room and a gymnasium with skilled workers. All sorts of mechanical crafts are taught, primarily to improve the child’s use of itself and thus get it in such condition that it may with profit be sent to a trade school. A surprising number of these children, after a year or more at the Spaulding School, are enough better to go back to their own ward schools and hold their places. It was very hard to persuade the Board of Education in Chicago to make this change; it cost a lot of money, many of the children had to be transported to the school in busses. Now the Board of Education is well pleased with the results and has established three or four branch schools of the same type and is thoroughly committed to the policy of physical reconstruction for the children of Chicago.

The teachers of this section, whom I have the honor to address this afternoon, are already engaged in physical education work. Some of you doubtless understand already its full significance, but I want each and every one of you to get the larger vision. You are not merely teachers of calisthenics; it is not merely your mission to put the children through such exercises which will straighten out their cramped backs and limbs and fill their lungs with fresh air so they may go back to their studies refreshed. You are not there merely to build up and harden the biceps and calf muscles of the boys and girls who are athletically inclined, or even to put a little more muscle on the thin and flabby child. Those considerations have a certain importance, but your mission is a far greater one. You are to detect the early signs of physical disability; you are to interest yourself in the home surroundings, in the habits and in the food of the children; you are to point out to the child and to the parents what is needed to get the child in good condition; you are to explain to the other teachers what may reasonably be expected of a child. You will, in some measure, have to combine the zeal of the preacher, the scientific observation of the doctor and the patience and skill of the mechanic in detecting the physical and mental flaws in these little human machines and in restoring than to a maximum efficiency. It is within your power to be the pioneers in the great movement for conservation of human life and human energy.

By this time you must be asking, “Will he ever get to his subject of Faulty Posture?” In teaching Orthopedic Surgery I usually begin by saying it is that department of medical science which concerns itself with cripples, using the term not only for deformed per-

Digitized by <^.ooQle
5

sons but for those who have some loss of function of the back or limbs, who cannot do some of the things that they desire to do for work or for play. Then I divided the subject into four headings: (1) Cripples by birth; (2) Cripples by accident; (3) Cripples from disease; (4) Cripples from faulty posture or wrong use of the body. It is to this last division that I invite your attention, Cripples from faulty posture or wrong use of the body. These people are not born crippled nor have they met with an accident or had any disease which was the direct cause of their trouble, although they may have been delicate or poorly nourished. They have stood badly or sat crooked or used their limbs awkardly or worn the wrong kind of clothing or shoes. Most of these cases begin in childhood and “as the twig is bent so is the tree inclined.” They are not all children; the various fashionable types of dress or shoes often are factors in later life. What George Ade has dubbed “The String-bean Posture” decreed by the present fashion is a case in point. We may see it excellently set forth in some of Woolf Brothers’ billboard postures right here in Kansas City or in any current number of “Vogue.”

Let us consider the spine; Man is the highest form of vertebrate. He is also handicapped because of his erect posture. If the beautifully balanced curves of the human spine are distorted for long trouble is sure to follow. The first group presents changes in the antero-posterior curves. There is the too-straight, rather rigid back and there is the “slump” back posture. These have too hollow a back in the lumbar region, too round in the dorsal region with round or stooped shoulders, a sloping chest and a prominent abdomen. This posture is the cause of a large number of disturbances and may lead to actual disease. In the chest there is shallow breathing, and so a poor oxygen supply which tends to produce anemia. The circulation may be impeded. They are more subject to colds and throw them off less readily. Finally the tubercle bacillus may eventually find lodgement in the poorly ventilated apices of the lungs and the patient then developes consumption. The downward displacement of the abdominal organs, with the lack of firm support from the abdominal walls, leads to indigestion and constipation and predisposes to appendicitis or colitis. Individuals are more or less poisoned by absorption from the intestinal tract. The downward displacement of the kidneys, with the tug on the great renal veins, may cause albumin to appear in the urine. This Y‘posture albuminuria” has been demonstrated in many cases by putting the patient to bed for two or three days when the albumin entirely disappears. The weight of the abdominal organs tends to force down the pelvic organs and results in painful or disturbed menstruation. The patient shows poor nutrition, a sluggish or irritable disposition and has less resistance to contagious diseases. The correction of this "slumpy” posture is rewarded by a remarkable improvement in the health of almost all individuals. In some long continued or severe cases the use of some sort of back brace or shoulder straps may be indicated, but most cases can be relieved by direct gymnastic exercises and by

Digitized by v^ooQle
6

teaching the patient to make an earnest effort to stand correctly. Even cases which require apparatus at first, are only cured when the patients have been taught how to stand properly and their muscles have been sufficiently strengthened to enable them to hold the spine in proper position.

Lateral deviations of the spine are even more serious. The faulty curves from before backward are only exaggerations of natural curves and may be of any standing. The lateral curve tends to increase in severity and to become fixed so that it resists correction and it is associated with a distortion of the ribs which makes a very distressing deformity and one which, if of long standing, cannot be easily corrected. A lateral curvature is often caused by habitual tilting of the shoulders or pelvis. A child with one leg shorter than the other is bound to get a lateral curvature unless it is able to keep the pelvis comparatively straight by walking on tip-toe with the shorter leg. One who sits at a desk which is too high, with the body turned sidewise and the elbow on the desk, is pre-disposed to lateral curvature. A good many children with strong backs, who play vigorously when they are out of school, will develop no trouble, while the rather flabby child with softer bones or poorer muscles, often one who does not play vigorously, soon develops a lateral curvature. These lateral curvatures more often occur in girls than in boys and are most apt to come on about the age of puberty. The slumped posture, by weakening the ligaments and muscles, makes it easier for a young girl who is rather inactive, who lolls over her desk at school, who when she goes home wants to curl up in a big chair with one foot under her, a pillow behind her and a novel in one hand and a box of candy on the arm of the chair. She is doing all the things which predispose to lateral curvature,—lack of vigorous exercise, slumped posture and wrong kind of food. These can be completely relieved by corrective gymnastics and by training the child to avoid the faulty positions. When they have become very bad they produce pitiful cripples who may be improved but cannot be completely cured, even by the most skillful orthopedic treatment carried on for several years. I have noticed, in the course of a large number of insurance examinations, that almost all men who were in the military service during the recent war and who were not seriously sick or wounded, gained from ten to forty pounds while they were in the army. I attribute this to regular exercise, correct posture and wholesome food. I am sorry to say that the majority of them have lost this gain in weight since their return to civilian life. You are dealing with children in a more plastic state and if you teach regular exercise, correct posture and proper diet you will see the most gratifying results in the general health of most of the children.

The time is too short for me to speak of week feet, flat foot and fallen arches all of which result from walking with the feet in an improper position or from wearing badly shaped shoes. I would be glad to speak or write more fully, at some future time, of the practical details of the detection and correction of postural defects. The

Digitized by Google
7

thought which I wish you to carry away is that the work which you have to do in the schools is no trifling matter, but a most important part of the great program which the Rockefeller Foundation is launching for the improvement of the health of the merican people, in order that they may live long and useful lives, and that the next generation of Americans may be physically and spiritually fit for the leadership of the world, which seems to be knocking at the door of America.

NATIONAL ATHLETICS BADGES.

In the "Journal for Scientific Physical Training” we read that in September 1921, a congress, at which all the four Scandinavian countries were represented, was held in Stockholm to discuss the physical education of children of school age. A mong other questions, that of a National Athletics Badge for each country was discussed, and it was agreed that the arrangements in the various countries should be on the same lines, thougn each might vary in detail, and each should be at liberty to fix its own age limits. The age limits suggested for girls were 11—13 years to be called Class B and over 14 to be called Class A, and the agreed tests are to include: 1. Gymnastics; II. Cross-country ski-ing or walking; HI. Swimming; IV. Ahtletics; and V. Games. In all cases the object is to ascertain that a certain stage of all-round proficiency has been reached, and no attempt is to be made to establish records. After passing the tests the candidate is entitled to wear a badge.

Appended are the particulars relating to the suggested standards, Class B and Class A set up last year by the International Conference, and the Finnish Regulations (1921) relating to tests already established. These latter are, perhaps, of lower standard at the moment than would be useful elsewhere, since the physique of the Finnish children has suffered so terribly from the privations of the war period. The tests for women are even more interesting than those for children, and space may be found for them in a later issue.

Scandinavian Conference Standards.

ClassB (11—13 Years.)

In Group I.—Gymnastics. Candidates must take part in gymnastics at school and their work be graded as worth not less than 70 per cent marks.

” II.—Ski-ing, cross-country, 2 1-2 miles. If climatic conditions render ski-ing impossible, cross-country walking may be substituted.

” III.—Swimming, 50 metres—any stroke.

Note—Athletic Ability tests, or badge tests a» they are also called are devices by means of which boys and girls are encouraged to equal definitely outlined physical performances,

Digitized by (^.ooQle
8

”	IV.—(a) Throwing tennis ball, combined minimum length

for both hands, 20 metres, minimum length for weaker hand, 8 metres.

(b)	Throwing at a target, distance 5 metres, target 30 cm. diameter, at height of 150 cm. from ground. Of 10 throws at least 3 with one hand and 1 with the other must hit target.

(c)	Batting with small flat wooden bat, own service. Of 10 tnes with better hand 5 must send the ball a minimum length of 10 metres. Of 10 tries with weaker hand, without bat, at least 3 must send the ball 7 metres.

”	V.—Candidates must show themselves able to play some

ball game, such as Rounders, Long Ball or Net Ball.

All tests to be taken without time limits.

Class A (14 Years).

In Group I.—Candidates must take part in gymnastics at school and their work be graded as worth not less than 80 per cent marks.

” II.—As in Class B, 3 1-2 miles.

” III.—Swimming, 75 metres, any stroke.

” TV.—(a) Throwing football, minimum length for weaker hand, 10 metres, minimum combined length for both hands, 25 metres. Three tries allowed with each hand.

(6) As in Class B, but distance from target 7 metres.

(c) Batting, small round wooden bat, another person serving. Of 10 tries 4 must send the ball a minimum distance of 15 metres.	•

”	V.—Candidates must show themselves able to play some

ball game, such as Long Ball, “Park,” Basket Ball— not the same game as played for Class B.

All tests to be taken without time limits.

Grade I. (Girls under 11 years, Boys under 10 years).

I.—Gymnastics (under revision).

II.—Jumping.—(a) Running high jump, right and left foot, minimum height, 2 ft.

(b) Standing long jump, minimum length, 4 ft.

III.	—Throwing.—Tennis ball, combined distance with both hands,

20 metres, minimum length for weaker hand, 8 metres.

IV.	—Throwing at Target.—With tennis ball, at distance of 3

metres. Of ten throws at least three from better hand and one from weaker must hit the target. (Target, a tin plate 12 in. diameter.)

V.—Batting.—(a) Against ground 10 times in succession either hand.

(b)With small wooden bat, of 10 tries at least 5 must send the ball a minimum length of 8 metres.

Digitized by

Google
9

VI.—Running.—(a) For speed. 50 metres, maximum time, 50 secs.

(b)	For endurance. 500 metres, maximum time, 4 mins.

VII.—Walking.—1,100 yards, maximum time, 12 minutes.

VIII.—One of the Following:—

(а)	Swimming, "frog swimming,” with cork belt, 25 metres. Arms crossed, leg stroke only.

(б)	Ski-ing, 1 1-4 miles, without rest, no time limit, on two separate occasions.

(c) Skating—forward, (d) Rowing, while another person steers.

If these tests are passed three times, different years, the badge may be exchanged for a silver one.

Grade II. (Girls 11—15 Years).

I.—Gymnastics (under revision.)

II.—High Jump.—Running high jump, R. and L. foot, over pole, not rope, without beating board or mat, minimum height, 21-4 ft. For silver badge, 2 3-4 ft.

III.	—Long Jump.—(o) or b).

(a)	Running long jump, minimum length for weaker foot, 5 ft., minimum combmed distance for both feet, 13 1-4 ft.

IV.	—Throwing.—(o) or (b).

(a)	Throwing sand bag, 3 lb. 5 oz. in weight, size 8 in. by 8 in. Bag is grasped at one comer and the arm is swung once round (forw. upw. bkw. downw.), then bag is dung forward. Minimum length, for better hand, 11 yards, for weaker hand, 51-2 yards.

(b)	Throwing football, minimum length for weaker hand, 8 3-4 yards, combined distance for both hands, 22 yards.

V.—Throwing at Target.—With tennis ball, distance 5 1-2 yards. Of 10 throws at least 3 with one hand and 1 with the other must hit the target.

VI.—Batting.—With small round wooden bat, own service, of 10 tries at least 5 must send the ball a minimum distance of 11 yards.

VII.—Running.—(a) For speed, 75 metres, maximum time, 13 seconds.

(6) For endurance, 1 km. (about 1,100 yards), maximum time, 8 minutes.

VIII.—Walking.—3 km., or 1 mile 1,521 yards, maximum time, 30 minutes.

IX.—Swimming.—(a) Land drill.

(b)	Breast stroke, 1st year 50 metres, 2nd year 50 metres. For silver badge, 75 metres.

X.—Ski-ing.—4 km., i.e., 21-2 miles, without rest, no time limit, two separate occasions. For bronze badge either swimming or ski-ing may be taken, the second time tests are taken, and for silver badge, both tests must be taken.

Digitized by

Google
IO

XI.—One of the Following:

(a)	Skating, forward and backward; or (ft) Rowing; or (c) Cycling, 5 km., i. e., 3 miles 189 yards, maximum time, 20 nunute8.

If tbe tests are passed three times, different years, the badge may be exchanged for a silver one.

ORTHOPAEDICS: A PROBLEM BASED ON THE ACTION AND INFLUENCE OF MUSCLE.*

By G. N. Girdlestone, F. R. C. S.

The Skeletal Muscles.—In speaking of the function of muscles it is intended here to confine the subject to “Skeletal” muscles, and to exclude the vascular, visceral and cutaneous systems. If we visualise a human body entirely stripped of its skeletal muscles and consisting only of skeleton, ligaments, viscera, and skin, then let the imagination build up the picture, we quickly realize that we are entirely dependent on the influence of muscles for posture, movement and form. The skeleton without this muscular system is a strangely insecure thing. Too great a function is liable to be attributed to the action of ligaments, for when we learn that a joint has its range of movement limited by its ligaments, we are prone to think that it is on the ligaments that the stability of the joint depends. As a matter of fact, some joints depend mostly, if not entirely, on muscles for their stability, while it is also true that the ligaments if unprotected by muscles have a very restricted value.

The Law of Ligament.—Sir Arthur Keith, in his most valuable and interesting book, “Menders of the Maimed” (1919), insists on the truth of this statement. He lays down—"The Law of Ligament,” and says:—

“Even at the present time the essential function of ligaments is often misunderstood, and so long as this is the case we cannot hope to effect an object which is quite as important as the rectification of deformities—namely, their prevention. Hunter’s teaching as regards the respective functions of muscles and ligaments in the mechanism of the human body is very definite. Muscle is the only form of living tissue which can be applied for the continued support of parts without undergoing a passive stretching or elongation. A ligament cannot perform such a function, because it is composed of living cells possessing no power of contraction, no power to shorten as their load increases, such as muscles are endowed with. When the living cells and fibres of a ligament are subjected to a continued burden they invariably elongate. Hence Nature never uses ligaments, either for the purpose of passive support or of active maintenance of parts in position; she uses them only as

* Lecture delivered before tbe Linz Association, 1922. Reprint from “Journal of Scientific Physical Training.”

Digitized by v^.ooQle
II

fuards—as the means of limiting the movements of joints. They come into play chiefly when the muscles which guard and surround a joint are forced beyond the compass of their normal stretch.”

Later he says:—

“It is easy to demonstrate that the maintenance of the plantar arch owes nothing to ligaments; it can be demonstrated in the living foot and leg, and also m the dissected parts. It is quite clear that ligaments are passive parts; their elongation is not a cause, but a consequence of the deformity. In short, in all static deformities of the human body the cause has to be sought for, not in ligamentous changes, but in the disordered action of the muscles, and we shall never succeed in preventing or mending static deformities until the truth of this law of the function of ligaments is clearly realized.”

The education of fibrous tissue.—Now this law is not universally true, but is true within limits and under certain conditions. The essential point that is rather overlooked in the matter is the word “living." Ligaments are composed of fibrous tissue, permeated with living cells; and just as muscles can be educated to realize a greater responsibility and to take on a larger function, so can the strength of ligaments be developed. - The work in which we are all engaged, the prevention and cured deformities, and,:perhaps particularly, the restoration of stance and. walking in infantile paralysis depend on our capacity to educate not, only muscles, but also white fibrous tissue. Muscles, bones, and fibrous tissue are the substance of our form, and the means of our movement; they are alive, they alter and adapt themselves to their environment. It - , must be realized, however, that they are colonies rather than in-~’4ividual entities, and just as Society cannot be reformed by Act of Parliament, but only by the reformation of the individuals of which it is the sum, so it is with bones, muscles and ligaments. It is by understanding the influence brought to bear on the actual celis themselves that we can hope to carry out our purposes successfully.

Heredity.—The form of a bone, a muscle, or a ligament depends on two classes of influence, the first hereditary, the second environmental. The first is beyond our present consideration, yet it is essentially worth particular remark! And again we are qualifying a rule. Andre (1741) in “L'orthopaedie,” taught that the body was entirely moulded by the muscles; but if the fimb of a child who has been the subject of poliomyelitis in early infancy is looked at, it will be found that—provided the motor paralysis of that limb is quite complete—its form is normal except in so far as size and muscular mass are concerned. There is then a hereditary tendency towards form, and to the maintenance of that form, even without the stimulus of function; but the product is a feeble.-if accurate representation of the normal, and gives way quickly under the influence of strain. The paralyzed limb of anterior poliomyelitis, small, but true to type, shows this clearly. Subluxation, then dislocation of the hip, retroversum of the knee, and a valgoid displacement of the foot at the sub-astragaloid joint, will result from exposure

Digitized by v^ooQle
12

of such a limb to body-weight without adequate protection. There is then a value, but a limited value, attached to the hereditary factor in the determination of form.

Environment, body-weight, muscle-pull.—Assuming a good nervous and vascular supply, body-weight and muscle-pull are the main forces applied to the living osseo-ngamentous mechanism. An example of each may be given. Infantile paralysis gives wonderful illustrations of the effect of unbalanced muscle-pull on the form of the foot. With complete paralysis, or with full musculature, the shape of the foot is normal. With paralysis confined to the muscles inserted by means of the Tendo Achillis there is a hollow high-arched foot, with a long heel. With the Tendo Achillis alone active there is a completely flattened foot. For the effect of body-weight we may take the weakened bones of rickets, with the flat abducted feet, the knock-knees, and the altered angle of the femoral necks. Other rachitic deformities are determined by sitting posture. Bones grow in length at the epiphysis, and a postural deformity with the resulting deflection of body-weight throws unequal weight on the two sides of the epiphysis; there is more resistance to growth on one side than the other, and hence the increase of a knock-knee, and the production of the fixed scoliosis.

Now the system is composed of three interdependent units, muscles, bones and ligaments. And their design, the texture of their structure, and the strength of their material have to be developed in accordance with the stresses to which they are to be subjected. Nature does not build everyone up to standard gauge, but nas provided a mechanism of reaction to strain by which she builds up the machinery in accordance with the work. It may be ordinary use, and nameless; or controlled, and called physical culture.

Development, stimulus, strain.—Development depends on reaction to stimulus, the performance of function. The quality of function may have the quantity of stimulus, or of overstrain. Function for a bone is the bearing of pressure or tension, weightbearing or muscle-pull: for a muscle it is contraction, a pulling or holding together of two points; for a ligament it is tension. Function within the capacity of the tissue concerned is stimulus, beyond the capacity is overstrain, and there is a threshold, which we may call “strain.” Function may be dosed from stimulus to strain, and so to overstrain, either by increase in quantity, in length of application, or by repetition without adequate repose. A rachitic bone may bear the weight of a child for a minute without harm, but not for an hour. The muscles of a weakly child with a postural spinal curvature may hold the correct posture for an hour four times a day, but not for four hours on end. The failure of function means overstrain, overfatigue, and weakening; its achievement means exercise, natural fatigue, and strengthening.

The Alphabet of Gymnastics.—This is the alphabet of our craft, the letters from which we are to make the language of physical culture. The gymnast provides the carefully dosed stimulus, and

Digitized by

Google
i3

much more than this, for by the teaching of posture, rest and movement the child is protected from the strain of bad posture and ill-movement through the rest of the day. In school protection from the strain of bad posture is the care of the school teacher, a responsibility which he must be taught to shoulder, and an important part of the organization of physical education. At home the parents must take up the care.

Where there is actual deviation of body-weight, which cannot be held constantly corrected by muscle action, the orthopaedic surgeon must contribute to the protection of the child’s weakened tissues from strain by shoe alterations, spinal supports, and so on, and thus enable the muscles to act within their capacity during posture and movement. In many cases actual orthopaedic correction of deformed structures is a necessary preliminary to the success of remedial exercises. Rest and Exercises are our remedies, and, once there is an organic change, gymnast and orthopaedic surgeon are mutually dependent. For here Rest means the avoidance of the overstrain due to deflected body-weight only to be effected by instrument or operation. My great desire is to emphasize these simple points, the use of stimulus; the avoidance of overstrain; the interdependence of weight and strain and muscle strength; the helplessness of bones and ligaments without muscular support; the hopelessness of exercising muscles for half an hour and then delivering them to the effects of overstrain for the rest of the day.

Postural Reflex.—In remedial gymnastic treatment it is not the muscles alone that are stimulated. The muscle is exercised, and the child trained to adopt a correct posture—and this means that an altered nervous reflex stimulation is being set up. In treating the kypho-lordosis of weak children the whole reflex tone of the muscles of the trunk and lower limbs has to be altered; for the tibials must take up a shorter posture, the peronei a longer; the gluteals (particularly the maximus that “master of trunk posture”) shorten, the hip flexors correspondingly lengthen, and so on. Further, the child is made more physically conscious, and more physically intelligent. The gymnast cannot do all this— the child must do it! As Andre said in 1741, you must enlist the “animal spirits of the child” on your side. Your exercises must be not a task, but a sport, not an endurance, but an adventure. This can be brought about only by strong personal belief in their effect in producing health, activity and happiness, whole-hearted and infectious. Exercises eagerly and happily done are magnificent, and the results are wonderful; perfunctory they are worthless, miserable, depressing, damnable. In the clinics of Berks, Tucks, and Oxon, where we have about 700 physically defective children under treatment, I can testify to the splendid results of exercises whenever the "animal spirits” of the child are in action.

At the present time a determined attempt is being made to tackle the problems of treatment (preventive and curative) amongst

Digitized by Google
the crippled children of the poor. It was recognized that in country districts this could only be done by carrying treatment to thie patients, and not by attempting to bring them regularly, over long periods and from great distances, to hospital. The focus is a Central Hospital School with its open-air wards (for surgical tuberculosis), its X-ray equipment, operating theatres, plaster rooms, and appliance workshops. The staff of this hospital have to carry the outpatient department of the hospital to the patients throughout the area which the hospital serves. This is done by organizing clinics in the various market towns where the work of early diagnosis, prolonged after-care, postural treatment of paralyzed muscles and gradual correction of deformities is done. One of the surgeons of the hospital visits each clinic regularly and an aftercare sister goes every week to carry on his treatment.

This system was first started in Shropshire by Miss Hunt. I learned its value there, and in accordance with tne scheme of the Central Committee for the Care of Cripples, have initiated a similar organization in an area including Berkshire, Buckinghamshire and Oxfordshire, with a Central Hospital School at Headington, near Oxford. We look forward to a time when there will be such a clinic in every market town in England. The Cripples’ Care Committee feel very much the great need of help from gymnasts. Cases of poor physical development and commencing deformity are always occurring, which need much more in the way of physical education or remedial exercises than can as yet be arranged. The services of the organizers of Physical Training, wherever there are such, are enlisted, but too often their areas are so big and their task so great that they can do little actual remedial work. Two things are asked of the gymnastic profession:—First, that you press toward realization of really good physical training throughout the elementary schools of our country, and so more and more achieve the prevention of the various static deformities of children due to weakness and persistent bad posture. Secondly, that you should recognize clearly how interdependent the gymnast and tne orthopaedic surgeon are for the effective treatment of cases when once a deformity with a deviation of body weight has become established.

In conclusion the needs of a growing child may be summed up under the great principles of Rest and Exercise. Rest without Exercise means Atony. Exercise without Rest means Atrophy. Where there is deformity with deviation of body weight, Rest can be real only after orthopaedic correction of the deformity, or by the help of some appliance which will protect the affected muscles and ligaments from overstrain and overstretching. Exercise means the stimulation, use and development of the physical intelligence, the setting up of right standards of spinal reflex, the joyous association of mind and movement.

Digitized by v^ooQle
l5

THE PHYSICAL WELFARE OF PUPILS.

By Carl L. Schrader, Supervisor of Physical Education of Massachusetts.

As the problem of health is being emphasized by the several other speakers, and as I am convinced that Physical Education is recognized by the other speakers and by you to be a most important factor in any health program, I shall devote the brief time allotted to me to a discussion of those objectives in Physical Education other than health. Whatever the means may be of realizing these other objectives, they will in every instance, when wisely applied, contribute to health in general. These same means when applied to the promotion of health and power only, may be considered as a process of physical training, but not as physical education. The moment we aim to influence mind and character we teach instead of train and utilize the various means merely as vehicles toward the purpose which we have staked as the ultimate aim. To youth the means are ends in themselves and the successful outcome in rivalry either with himself or others is the purpose. This same outlook may be justifiable for a trainer or a coach, but it can never be that of a teacher. Such character qualities as truth ulness, fair play, magnanimity, loyalty, chivalry, and control of temper, which we so glibly boast of as resulting from the activities on the athletic fie?d, are not developed by the occasional administering or lecturing any more than are posture and health habits by means of text books and informational talks. These character and health habits have to be learned and lived in order to be possessed.

Such teaching belongs in the elementary schools where all our socializing begins. Let the children learn in their play world 'n which they live most of the experiences which later confront them when they enter the real world of responsibility. Let them experience the satisfaction which comes from a whole-hearted effort, nude in accordance with the laws involved; let them also experience the annoyance which results from slovenly attempt and in violation of laws prescribed. In this play world there are the purposes which the child thoroughly understands, for which he will make sacrifices, for which he will put forth earnest and willing effort to live in obedience to the law or the rule of the game. His often repeated experience in so playing will be that of satisfaction, and sat sfaction we believe is the surest road to habituation. The results in health teaching or character teaching are greatest, where the resourceful teacher has tied up all efforts on the part of the child with purposes within this play world. The child will drink milk, deep with window open, brush the teeth, cultivate a taste for vegetables, avoid coffee, etc., not because it has become convinced that that is the hygienic thing to do, and that such behavior will result in a longer and happier life, but rather because it was the thing to do in order that the group to which he or she belongs may score high in the daily competition between teams, and in order to be successful in a

* Read at the Superintendents Convention, N. E. A., Cleveland, February 1923.

Digitized by

Google
i6

proposed team game competition for which he or she is in training. This is a purpose which is real to the child and if repetition of acts leads to habituation surely by the time paternal influence ceases we may reasonably look for much habitual performance in matters of this sort. May it be injected here that the play world does by no means end with the elementary school, for the training table in college with all its regulations is still set in this play world and for a like puiyose.

To instruct our pupils in the fundamentals of forms of recreative activities, which will both serve during the long period of schooling and which will survive in the later life as a lasting fountain of youth and health is indeed a worthy objective in physical education. It is the lack of mastenr of these fundamentals which renders the grown up incapable of choosing any active form of recreation from which satisfaction may be derived, and which would lengthen his period of physical efficiency and service. To make America a nation which plays, we must furnish facilities and wise instruction mainly in the elementary schools, if for no other reason than that the majority of our boys and girls never reach the high school. No arbitrary selection of teachers nor of teaching material may be made. The boys and girls should be made acquainted with all the varied fundamentals that may later be applied by the individual for the particular recreative activity to be pursued voluntarily.

The taste for forms of recreation is almost as varied as are the finger prints; and it is not for us to determine before hand which activities do or which do not give satisfaction. The classification of sports into major and minor sports is as unfortunate as it is arbitrary; and has led to the general conception that any sport which is not a major sport, so called, is merely a sort of “also sport” and of little importance. Inasmuch as none of the team sports last much beyond the school or college career, there is nothing but the large variety of minor sports “so called” left for the professional man and woman to indulge in. In these minor sports, so called, are involved many of the big muscle activities that call for and are the means of developing muscle tone, a condition of muscle that is fundamental, whether the objective be grace, or skill, or endurance, or good posture or good health in general. Posture without muscle tone is conscious posing rather than the unconscious good bearing of a body under command; and so called health without it is merely the condition of not being ill, rather than the possession of health in abundance. We must instruct our Junior citizens of today then in matters which have a direct bearing on a useful life, we must instruct them in the principles which lay the foundation to that degree of health which makes this useful life possible and fruitful, and we must guide and lead them in the basic ethics of living with others. To bring this instruction within the realm of freedom without placing arbitrary limits as to the means, to consider these means not as ends in themselves, but as vehicles toward desirable ends for that full life, which may render body and soul obedient servants to himself, his dependents, his state, and his country, is the chief purpose of this association which I have the honor to represent.

Digitized by v^ooQle
*7

THE TRAINING OF TEACHERS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

By Richard F. Hayes, East Stroudsburg, Pa.

Before I take up the subject of training teachers of Physical education, I should like to review briefly some types of teachers of physical education now in the field with whom I nave come in contact. I am not considering directors of athletics, science instructors, or nutritional experts, but simply special teachers of physical education. As I know them, there are four distinct types, as follows:

1.	Graduates of normal schools of physical education.

2.	Graduates of state normal schools.

3.	College graduates.

4.	Teachers who have had no professional training or who may have had summer school work, but are not high school graduates, yet have considerable natural ability to teach.

. The above order of arrangement has nothing to do with the ’ability of the teachers in each class, for I have known men and women from each group who have been successful, and also some from each group who have failed.

1.	The graduates of normal schools of phys'cal education are usually strong in teaching floor work and supervising playgrounds. Sometimes they are weak in athletics, and oftentimes are inclined to think that no one knows anything about their specialty except themselves.

2.	Graduates of normal schools who have had classroom experience have usually gone into the field of physical education on tile recommendation of a supervisor of physical education who saw in than exceptional ability. Because of their classroom experience they are usually strong in maintaining discipline, and in eo-operating with teachers and principals. Many of them lack sufficient knowledge of anatomy, physiology, and hygiene.

3.	The college graduate generally has executive ability to organize the work, especially the extra-curricular activities; his weakness usually lies in methods of teaching.

4.	In the fourth class—natural teachers—are found many men and women especially in private schools, Y. M. 0 A.’s and Y. W. C. A.’s who are excellent teachers but who have not had proper educational opportunities. Because of this lack of academic training they do not have the professional standing in the community which teachers in their profession should enjoy.

What, then, are some of the essential qualifications of a successful teacher of physical education: a sterling character, a forceful, attractive personality of the type that can secure the co-operation of children, teachers, principals, and janitors; mental alertness to Suable them to cope with school problems such as class strifes, school politics, fraternities, and parents who think they understand their own but never can understand the children of anyone else •

• Read at Annual meeting of Pa. State Phya. Ed. Society, Harrisburg, Pa., December 9, 1922.

Digitized by v^ooQle
It

The physical director should, of course, be a living example. He cannot hope to teach posture if his own chest is sagging and his scapulae are winged.

An instructor who carries a schedule of twenty or twenty-five hours a week cannot hope to take part in all of the physical activities of his classes, but he should have a fair degree of ability as a performer and take as active a part in the class work as the size of the class, good supervision, and discipline will permit. I believe that ne instructor should ask a class or a large group to do an exercise which he is unable to do in good form, and that the instructor should keep himself in such condition that at any time he may take the actual leadership in a game, a dance, a drill, or an exercise on the apparatus, and thereby stimulate the class to greater effort.

As for methods in teaching physical education, and the desirabil-a method, I shall quote from Dr. Skarstrom whom all

_	 as	one	of	the greatest of the present day teachers. He

says, “Even the bom teacher, the natural genius, may profit, and the quality of his work be improved, by a study of principles and technique, with a view to making him a finished artist, while those who are more modestly equipped by nature may gain proficiency and facility by the same process.”

I	was asked to tell you something of the work that we are doing at East Stroudsburg in training special teachers of physical education. The curriculum was arranged, of course, to prepare especially for public school work, and in carrying out our program we have that thought constantly in m:nd. We have the usual courses in Anatomy, Physiology, Hygiene and kindred subjects, and as much floor work ana athletics as the pupils can stand, and still have time and energy to study. We believe that we have some advantages over schools of physical education in our courses in Psychology, Sociology, Principles of Education, Oral Expression and Music which are being taught by the heads of these departments of the regular normal course. We are requiring all of our students to take a two hour course in Music which is devoted largely to work in rhythmics, and I have found that this work has been of considerable hdp to the students in their classes in dancing. In the classes in Folk Dancing, we are using Victrola music as most of the folk dancing in the elementary schools is done with phonographs. We have found that the tempo and arrangement of the music in the folk dance books, is quite different from that of the records.

Our girls are learning to play and coach soccer, field hockey, basketball, track and, of course, most of the games of low organization. Our boys play football, basketball, soccer, baseball, and compete in track, and also receive instruction in the theory and practice of officiating and coaching these sports.

Our first year class does no teaching. The instructors, however, explain their reasons for certain methods, and try to demon-trate by example the most effective methods of teaching beginners. Emphasis is placed on form, and vigor of execution.

Digitized by

Google
»9

The second year pupils teach their own classes from time to tone under supervision of the instructors and some of them are used as squad leaders in the regular normal classes in physical education.

In the third year, most of their practical work consists of actual teaching in the elementary schools and junior high school. All of their teaching is done under supervision of a specialist in physical education.

While we believe with many others that imitation is the most sincere form of flattery, we are not trying to turn out graduates who will teach in exactly the same manner that we do. We believe in the use of a rising inflection on the command of execution, as a general thing, in the teacher moving from place to place (but not nervously) to get in a better position to observe certain exercises, in general, manual, and as a last resort individual corrections, in a good bit of rhythmic work and of ending every lesson with a game. We like a rather rapid cadence in marching and consider marching tactics as heavy mental work.

Some of the common faults which we have to work against in our embryonic teachers are sign-song commands, exaggerated mannerisms, inability to anaylze or simplify movements, counting up to eight and back, and, in the case of the girls, insufficient volume in their commands.

Since I started teaching, I can remember physical directors who have said to me that heavy apparatus work and tumbling are going cut, and in a few years they won’t be used at all. Now some of you believe that. I, too, believed it at one time, but I don’t any more. I want you who do believe it to tell me why our students when they have an opportunity, as they do on Saturday mornings, to go to the gymnasium and practice, prefer to work on the apparatus and mats. We do not stress any special phase of the work in our course. Many of these students are able to play the piano which is in the gymnasium, and they are allowed to use any game material that they wish. Therefore, if the majority wish to play a game or to dance, would they not doit? Of course there will always be found in any gymnasium a group of ten or twelve who would monopolize the floor for basketball. Dr. Frederick Maroney once said, in a speech at Buffalo, “The next time a man tells you there is no value in apparatus work, take a good look at him.” I believe there is a good deal in that. Teachers have often advocated one type of work as preferable to another because they could do that particular branch of the work especially well themselves. We are trying to train our students so that they will have a fair degree of proficiency as performers in athletics, dancing, and the various forms of light and heavy gymnastics.

What would facilitate this training? In the theoretical courses, it would be a big help if all could have studied Art, Music, Oral Expression, Biology, Physics, and Chemistry in high school, and, in the practical courses, could have had more general participation in varied physical activities throughout their high school hfe. I have often heard it said that athletes were “burned out” in high

Digitized by
20

school from over-training. I have never happened to come in contact with such an indidivual, although I have seen a good many whom I thought had smoked themselves out. All the education and training in the world would not make teachers out of some people. In the first place, their heart has to be in the work; they should have a strong love and sympathy for human nature, and, if they are ever going to be successful, they must have ability to impart their knowledge to others—to predigest it as it were and feed it in such form that it is ready for assimilation. I know of no other profession where the personality of the individual is of such paramount importance.

THE TRAINING OF THE CLASSROOM TEACHER FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION WORK.

By Mira Wallace, West Chester, Pa.

In considering this subject of the training of the classroom teacher for physical education work, we assume that we are discussing the person who is a normal school student or graduate; therefore, we have only to consider her special training for physical education work. She is being, or has been already, trained as a teacher so we are only to consider what lies within the practical field.

I believe that, in order to understand and be wholly sympathetic with the work, we must create in the teacher a personal interest in physical education itself. She must become acquainted with all forms of recreation and feel the benefits of it. For this reason at West Chester we give to our Junior (the first year students) work suitable to their own physical needs and welfare, and leave to the Senior year the work suitable for the grades.

Many teachers know nothing of physical training and believe it to be all foolishness. But why should anyone understand it, unless they have been fortunate enough to have come in contact with the subject during their intermediate or high school days? Many of the people teaching in our schools today never have experienced the joys and benefits of any form of physical training, either calisthenics, tactics, athletics, games, or dances, and cannot, therefore, see any reason for teaching it to others.

By personal participation in the work of physical education, the teacher learns to recognize its by-products; namely, alertness, resourcefulness, confidence, decision, accuracy, discrimination, responsibility, determination, loyalty, sportsmanship, leadership, etc.

When she has learned this and realized its great value, she is more than ready to teach it in turn to others. *

* Read at Annual meeting of Pa. State Phys. Ed. Society, Harrisburg, Pa., December 9, 1922.

Digitized by L^ooQie
21

Once this favorable attitude of mind is established, we must make the teacher acquainted with the rudiments of a physical education program.

Health is one of our leading aims and so the teacher should be able to recognize ill health. She should be made acquainted with the symptoms of various contagious diseases, and know what proceedings to take upon observing such a case in her own classroom. Important, also, are the tests of the eyes, ears, nose, and throat. Many a child has been retarded in growth and development through lack of proper care of his eyes or perhaps overgrown tonsils and adenoids. Postural defects may also be noted. Although we hardly expect the classroom teacher to give physical examinations, she may suggest that the child be given one by the proper authority.

"How am I to get my class ready for physical training?” is the cry of many teachers. I have found through many observations that the average teacher is lacking in the ability to get the class ready, and to get them back at their studies again without waste of time. If working in the classroom, perhaps she wants them rearranged in their seats, or perhaps in marching them out to a gymnasium or playground she is unable to do so without confusion or waste of time. Hence, teach her the easiest way.

Now that we are ready, we must have the actual work. The teacher must know the type of exercises she wants to give and why these types are given. Since we are training teachers for the state of Pennsylvania, I advise the following of the day's order as laid out in the state syllabus. A few things well done will accomplish a lot more good than many things half done. The teacher must be strongly impressed that accuracy in everything is one of the main aims. In our line of work, we cannot hope to obtain the desired results without all of our work being done correctly. I had rather see a few things taught well to a class, than have them half trained in many things; therefore, I point out to our girls that they must learn not only the right, but must also consider what may be wrong. Some people believe that if the fundamental arm and leg positions can be taught accurately to our teachers, they are then capable of going ahead with their formal exercises. I do not believe this is sufficient, in fact I think it is far from enough. I want every teacher to learn all the likely faults in the execution of the work, and be sufficiently trained to at once recognize the fault and then correct it.

The finding of the material to teach is not a difficult matter, but can the teacher present it and put it across to the pupils? Her methods used here are important and practice will aid her here. Action stories and rhythm play a large part in our program in the first three grades and these develop into folk dances in the higher grades.

Initiative and imagination are developed in the former, and rhythm and grace of movement are developed in the latter.

Inasmuch as we now claim that we have within our reach, through the medium of play, the greatest opportunity for character

Digitized by Google
32

training, it becomes absolutely necessary that a child in its effort of socializing in play should learn the lessons which go with living in general. I mean by this, that the child be led to a type of behavior which would help him to recognize the rights and privileges of others, and to be indulgent to their short-comings.

This can be brought about through group play, and play where the game involved is played according to a definite rule or law. The playing, according to this one rule or law, will gradually create a respect for such legislation, and will, with the increasing numbers of laws and games to be played, lead to a general and willing obedience toward such law.

Inasmuch as the greater share of the physical education program is made up of this play and competitive element, considerable stress must be laid on this part of the program.

The importance of making the child acquainted with the rules or laws is the first requisite to be taught. Impress upon the teacher the fact that she holds a very high position m this game and that her duty is to see that the game is played fairly and squarely. The minor details are important, and every part of the rules must be obeyed.

A variety of games should be taught, games of low organization for the classroom, playground or gymnasium, and games with or without equipment. Suggestions should be given for adapting the game to various conditions, namely, age, sex, or the local conditions.

In the games of high organization, the teacher will find she has more opportunity silently to teach the value of rules or laws, and how dependent we are on one another. Should one play unfairly, the whole team suffers and so with life in general. In games, I think, a big lesson in socialization is taught, and we must inpress our teachers with its value. Many teachers have told me that the ones easiest to handle in school are the ones who play games the fairest and have learned the obedience to law. Hence, I repeat, emphasize with the teacher this part of the program, let her see the great opportunity for character training, and you will have ne difficulty in getting her interested in teaching games and contests involving group play.

This naturally leads to the general education of the child which is the aim of all school work. Because of physical training, the other parts of the day’s program are made easier, and the rules of behavior are observed with greater care.

Closely linked up with all of this, comes the importance of recognizing the physiological and hygienic results which these forms of activities are bound to bring about, and if the school teacher caa be impressed with the significance of linking up all her health teaching as closely as possible with these various play and competitive activities, she will meet the demand which is placed upon her, and the work involved.

Digitized by t^ooQle
»3

■ >--------------------------------------------------u

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENT?

D. M. F. KROGH, If. D.	M

i	■	<>

Scoliosis.—Confession is good for the seui, and confession of ignorance is particularly beneficial to the medical mind. "The

Kroblem of scoliosis is ever with us," and it is refreshing, even if a it disheartening, to read the rest of the sentence from the Sixteenth Report of Progress in Orthopedic Surgery: “The satisfactory explanation of its etiology is still lacking in the majority of cases. We may call it constitutional, ‘idiopathic,’ functional, developmental, or whatever we choose, but these terms do not explain.”

The editors of the report have more to give us than negative information. “It is clear,” they say, “that posture alone does not cause it, nor short legs alone, nor vertebral anomalies alone. Rickets, we know, is associated in certain younger patients in an apparently causal relation. We believe that we must assume some condition of the bones of a similar nature to that in rickets before a poor posture, or a short leg, or a vertebral abnormality can act as an exciting cause.” Which all goes back to the condition which we have many times emphasized as at the bottom of so many of our physical maladies— malnutrition, meaning by that much more than lack of weight.

By way of cure for scoliosis we have had many “systems” of exorcise put forward cocksurely, though, from personal witness, we must say with doubtful effect. Mountains of plaster have been applied in jackets which have given abundant distress to the wearer. The patients have been hung up by the head—held in overeorrect-ing frames—and what not. All in good faith—following some leader who believed he had the right idea. The editors of the report, continuing their confession, say: “We seem to be able to arrest, perhaps improve, the condition in certain eases of considerable severity. It has not yet been proved beyond eavil that we can untwist and unbend, much less correct, the curvature in cases in which there is a fixed rotary curve, without danger to the general health and the possible production of other deformities out of all proportion to the advantage of the correction of the curvature.”

The candor of this confession of the orthopedists is enviable; others might emulate their example. In the meanwhile, we expect to know more of the cause of scoliosis through the efforts of sueh students, and something as to its prophylaxis, if not its cure.—An Editorial New York Medical Journal.

Fatigue and Infection.—Some experiments carried out recently would seem to indicate that fatigue does not render an animal more susceptible to infection. The experiments were made on rats m a motor driven treadway. We are so accustomed to having time honored theories knocked about that we are not shocked at, though

Digitized by CjOOQle
*4

we remain highly sceptical to, the results of these experiments so far as their human application is concerned. What is fatigue for rats may not be fatigue for humans, and there enters into the problem the surroundings and behavior of the human being when he is supposedly fatigued.

Fatigue, in man at least, has never been clearly defined and we feel far from explaining its origin. There enter in so many different factors. It has been attributed to wear and tear in muscle and the accumulation of waste products in this organ. The condition of the nerve end plate seems concerned in the matter and a using up of the material of motor nerve cells has been found by good investigators. The accumulation of waste products in the blood is believed to take place, and a fatigue toxin was presumably discovered by one physiologist. But over all, in the human subject, there is the element of mental attitude. A class of girls in gymnastics will show the most evident signs of fatigue after a gymnastic lesson, and the teacher may fancy he has overdone the matter and imposed too much of a task, but immediately afterward, should a popular dance tune be struck up by the pianist, the whole class will De dancing as if they had had no previous muscular exercise. The pupils were suffering only from ennui.

Even the tests for fatigue of a few muscles, which were devised by the experimental psychologists, have, of late years, been considered very unreliable, the mental attitude element upsetting all conclusions. With so simple a test we do not know when the fatigue is physical or mental. If it has been difficult to define fatigue, it has been as difficult to distinguish fatigue from exhaustion. It is interesting to note that in experiments on dogs the personal equation comes in very markedly. Many dogs cannot be persuaded to run in a treadmill, while others will run till they drop.

After exercise the human being is more likely to put himself in a situation to become chilled or may conduct himself in other ways which will render him susceptible to infection for which the fatigue is not directly responsible. In this connection it should be mentioned that Vernon, in a study of the effect of fatiguing work in tin mills and other factories in England, could discover no definite relationship between fatigue and the indicence of sickness, what excess illness there was seeming to be due to carelessness about exposure to chilling when wet with perspiration. The subject deserves further study on other animals, and if a definition of fatigue can also be worked out by the investigators it will be of much value. An Editorial Article from the New York Medical Journal.

Standards for Malnutrition.—No health movement of modern times has been of so much significance as that for better nutrition, and though its application is late, when the human being has reached school age, it is, in this instance, much better late than never. The standaras set up, however, for the judging of malnutrition have been a little too hard and fast. They have been put forward on the assumption that we are all built along the same lines

Digitized by Google
of architecture, but anyone at all experienced in anthropometry knows that we are not so constructed and that, while there is a fairly fixed mean set of weight-height measurements for children of all lands, they cannot all be brought to conform to this one plan. We are not dealing with children of one type, not even within a single race, and in particular when we are studying the American child. No one is better qualified to “say something” on this matter of standards of nutrition than Charles K. Taylor, and he has said it in an article entitled The Great Underweight Delusion published in a recent number of the Outlook. Mr. Taylor made, some years ago, an anthropometric study of children of school age and published a little book giving the results of his work. He found that there was no single type of build at any age that could be considered the norm, but that perfectly healthy children could be classed in three groups— the median or average type, the heavy type, and the slender type.

“It is just as normal and healthy for some children to be more slender than the average and for others to be stocky or thickset, as for others to approximate that average, that it is a matter of inherited type of build, and all we need to do is to see that a child is properly developed for his or her normal type of build. There it is in a nutshell!

“Now very certainly it is quite possible for children to be actually underweight—below the weight they really should have. But you will not learn this by putting them on a pair of scales. The point is not, ‘What does the child weigh?’ but ‘Is the child healthy?’ If the child is unhealthy, if the child is suffering from malnutrition, then, for all you know, a child may be very much under the proper weight. The test is not a pair of scales, but a proper medical examination. So that brings us to the second part of our stand. Here it is: When a child is healthy, when a child is in good condition, and particularly when that child’s muscles are not flabby, but firm and efficient, then we may be sure that the child's weight is correct, no matter what it is. And our work, then, is merely to see that a child has a physical development corresponding to his or her type of build. . . .

“There, we hope our viewpoint has been made clear. It is based on an intensive study of some thousands of children over quite a number of years. And we repeat it finally for the sake of emphasis: If a child is healthy, and is not one of those typically fat children, then that child’s weight is correct no matter what it is. So our concern should not be over a child’s weight, but over a child’s health and physical development. And this means a careful study of our school children in these two respects, and it also means, mind you, a proper feeding of school children wherever real malnutrition or underfeeding actually exists. But the standard to go by is not one of weight but of health, and of physical development.”—An Editorial Article in the New York Medical Journal.

Sleep of School Children.—M. Gross has endeavored to determine, first, the amount of sleep obtained by elementary school children; and, secondly, any relation existing between the amount

Digitized by

Google
Ring around the rosy. Near Blast Relief worker distributing sweets to

the children.

Introducing American Sports Among the Orientals—Field Day at Near East Relief Orphanage, Constantinople

Digitized by

Google
Boys and Girl Scouts in Armenian Orphanage Put on Stunts Together.

Armenian Orphans High Diving in Front of the Sultan’s Palace—at least it was the Sultan’s Palace. The Sultan is dead and the Palace is now a Near East Relief Eye Hospital

Digitized by

Google
24

of sleep and their condition of health. A separate record was made for winter and summer. By summer is meant the period of the year during which the Summer Time Act is in force; tne rest of the year is called winter. This study seems to show that only a very small percentage of elementary school children get enough sleep. The percentage of children showing fatigue signs, and also the percentage to be waked in the morning, increases with the age of the children. The question of the effect of the Summer Time Act on children's health appears to involve the tendency to decrease the already insufficient amount they obtain. The ideal prodecure in Gross' opinion is to improve parental control and knowledge and continue with summer time. Until this improved control and knowledge is obtained summertime is detrimental to the vast majority of children. Parents should be encouraged to obtain longer sleep for their children the whole year round.—From a paper in Lancet, London.

AMERICAN GAMES INVADING THE ORIENT.

By Eleanor Murray.

Like all boys in Eastern countries, the Armenian boys have never been taught games such as baseball and football and at fourteen or fifteen years they have to be instructed in things which one American boy picks up from another before he is ten. But they are quick to learn, and take enthusiastically to all American forms of sport.

Until an American boy started the first Boy Scout organization in the Near East ten years ago, scouting was to them an unknown Western sport. But today their organization shows an enrollment of 4,000, and when the Near East Relief orphanages at Alexandropol are thoroughly scout-manned, another 2,000 will be added.

Once they are taught, these Armenian boys do full credit to American ideals. Indeed, any organization in America might be proud to claim them as brothers. For despite the number that limp and stoop because of wounds inflicted during years of servitude after deportation from their country, they are a soldierly looking lot. And their faces are happy as never before, for to be a Boy Scout means to them rescue from starvation, cold, slavery, and even death.

These boys who have survived the massacres and deportations which have spread throughout their country, lived like wild animals before the Americans came over to rescue them and train them in orphanages. Certainly the members of no Boy Scout troop anywhere have gone through more terrible experiences. Nearly every boy in the organization has faced war ana bloodshed, has walked hundreds of miles over burning desert or freezing mountain passes to escape persecution, and has lived on the streets for years at a time with nothing to eat except roots and grass and scraps flung into the gutters.

Naturally, these boys feel that at last they have come into their own. When clothed and fed, they are given responsible work to

Digitized by
25

do. At Alexandropol, for example, they are policing the world's largest orphanage center, guarding the lives of 18,000 orphans— the nucleus of a new Armenian race.

The main feature of boy-scouting at Alexandropol is that each member of the organization is in active service all day long and all the year round. He is up at five in the morning, with “lights out’’ at ten each night, and meanwhile he has put in three hours of patrol-duty, three hours of study, and three hours of organized athletics.

The scouts are orphans, like the rest of the 18,000 boys and girls, but efficiency demands that they live in their own special quarters. In fact, the big stone building where they are housed might be regarded as the police department, fire department, and street cleaning department, rolled into one. This headquarters contains dormitories, class-rooms, a mess-hall and a gymnasium, while at their front door lies an athletic field and a boxing ring surrounded by banked seats for spectators. All this is in one corner of a vast campus which contains eighty orphanage buildings. These buildings, all of stone, were once barracks for Cossack soldiers, housing 40,000 troops.

And just as these Alexandropol Boy Scouts work hard, they play hard; earnest and eager as they are, whatever they do seems to them to be the main business of life. The main business of life at this stage of the game the world over is undoubtedly the learning to live together in a sportsmanlike way.

In every town and city of Asia Minor now, where Near East Relief is carrying on, there is a troop of Boy Scouts, a disciplined, self-respecting group of Armenia's future citizens who are learning the co-operation and self-control necessary to a race that seems destined to live among perilous conditions.

We are informed by an old time subscriber of MIND AND BODY that he has the following numbers to dispose of: 143 to 148, 150 to 180,182,185,187 to 190, 192 to 210. If anyone is in need of these copies to complete their volumes of earlier date please notify MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., New Ulm, Minnesota and state what you are willing to pay for same.

We are in need of the following copies for which we already have calls: March 1921, April 1922. Anyone willing to dispose of these copies please notify us, stating price wanted.

The articles on “First Year Hygiene Outlines for High School Girls,” by A. Gertrude Jacob, which have appeared during the past winter in Mind and Body have now been published in pamphlet fora and can be obtained from the author, (address 9406 Hollis Court Boulevard, Queens, N. Y.) at a price of twenty-five cents each for single copies.

Digitized by LjOOQle
26

PRELIMINARY PROGRAM MIDDLE WEST SOCIETY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

To be held at University of Chicago, April 19, 20, 21, 1928.

Note: At the last minute before going to press, the preliminary pregram of the Middle West Society of P. E. reached us with the urgent request to get it into the April copy of Mind and Body. We could spare but one page of space for it and have therefore condensed it as follows:

Dates: Thursday, April 19—11 a. m. to Saturday, April 21, 11:30 a. m. Thursday will be given to registration, seeing Chicago and the formal opening of the convention by President Burton’s address at 8 p. m.

Friday: 9:00 a. M.—General Meeting. 1. Address by Miss Gertrude Dudley, U. of Chicago. 2. Address by Dr. E. P. Belting, Dean College of Ed., University of Illinois.

10:00 a. m.—Sectional meetings. College Women’s, Public Schools, Private Schools, College Men’s, Y. M. C. A., Normal Schools, Industrial, Playground and Recreation and Y. W. C. A.

2:30 p. m.—Practical Demonstration of Physical Training Activities. (Bartlett Gym., Univ. of Chicago.) The Lake View High School Band, L. H. Condy, Dir. Chicago Elementary Schools, Mr. Henry Suder, Dir.—a. Cali sthenic Exercises, b. Exercises on Combination Apparatus 24 boys and 24 girls from LeMoyne, Stewart and Blaine Schools.

3:15 p. m.—University High School, Dr. Monilaw, Director. Class Boxing (boyB.)

3:30 p. m.—Englewood High School, Henry Smidl, Director. Parallel Bars (10 boys.)

3:40 p. m.—Lindblom High School, C. P. Spade, Director. Wrestling Drill (30 boys.)

3:50 p. m.—Lindblom High hool. Miss Lilian Klein, Director

1.	Captain Basketball. 2. S' Dance.

4.00	p. m.—Schurz High . . nool (60 girls) Miss Elma McRae, Director. Dances Trepak and Blue Danube.

4:15 p. m.—Faulkner School for Girls (20 girls) Mrs. Eleanor Harris Burgess, Director. Girl’s Dalcroze Eurytnmics.

4:30 p. m—Public School Playground. Practical Demonstrations.

4:45 p. m.—West Chicago Park Commission. (Program to be provided.)

5.00	p. m.—Lincoln Park Commission. (16 girls) Stanton Park. Ball Drill, Miss Ruth Spirkel, Director.

5:15 p. m.—South Park Commission. (Program to be provided.

5:30 p. m.—Turn Verein Eiche, Branch of the A. G. U. (24 boys.) 1. Class Tactics. 2. Running. 3. Dumbbell Drill. Mr. Alfred Wild, Director.

Lack of space prevents further details. The evening program will contain Character Dancing, Volley Ball, Exhibition Drills and Swimming Pool Demonstrations. On Saturday there will be three addresses and visits to Playgrounds and Recreation centers.

Digitized by v^ooQle
♦

Gymnasium and playgrount^v

FRED FOERT8CH, Ptttabu*, Pm. JL/

MAY POLE DANCE.

By Frances H Haire, Chicago, 111.

A stately costume dance for a Garden Fete or High School or College exhibition.

Music (here) Any stately 4-4 time.

Formation:

Single circle, partners facing. In left hand of each girl is carried a small basket of flowers. Dancers should be dressed in Old English or flower girl costumes, the colors of which should be light and harmonious.

Dance Step:

There are only two steps in the dance, one a gavotte step which here is done very slow ana stately, as step, step, step point with free foot; the other is the curtsey which should be low ana sweeping and is done by stepping with the free foot to the rear and bending both knees to a low position. The steps are almost as slow as the minuette.

Until otherwise directed the may pole ribbons are left fastened

on the ground.

Part 1.

(1) One gavotte step toward partner (step, step, step, point) starting right foot, toward partner.................... 2	M

(b)	Curtsey swing left foot to the rear.................  2	M

(c)	Partners join right hand and circle clock-wise with two

gavotte steps starting with the left foot..................... 4	M

(d)	Turn about, join left hands high, circle counter clockwise with two gavotte steps starting with the left foot....... 4	M

(e)	Leave partner, return to place with one gavotte step,

starting with the left foot..................................  2	M

(f)	Turn and face partner, swing free foot around in a deep

curtsey. Left foot will be free after the turn ..............  2	M

Total

16 If

Part II.

(а)	Partners advance to form circle of four dancers.

(Couples should be numbered 1 and 2 around the entire may pole circle before hand, so that Couple 1 will advance to meet couple 2 in forming the circle of four. One gavotte step starting right foot............................................

(б)	Curtsey to center of circle of four, swinging left foot

to rear...................................................

2 M 2 M

Digitized by L^ooQle
28

(c)	Fours extend right hand across and circle clock-wise

with two ravotte steps starting left foot.....................4	M

(d)	Fours face about and extend left hands across and take

two gavotte steps counter clock-wise, starting left foot......4	M

(e)	Partners return to original places with one gavotte

step starting left	foot...................................... 2	M

(f)	Partners face each other and curtsey, swinging left

foot to rear................................................. 2	M

Total .................................................. 16	M

Part III.

(a)	Couples form side by side and turn facing opposite

couple. (Couple 1 faces Couple 2) with one gavotte step starting right foot............................................... 2	M

(b)	Couple 1 curtsey to Couple 2 swinging left foot to the

rear ....................................................... 2	M

(c)	Couples with inside hands joined wheel clock-wise with

two gavotte steps starting left foot. This is done by the person in each couple whose right hand is free grasping the right free hand of the person in the other couple....................... 4	M

(d)	Couples face about and with inside hands joined wheel

counter clock-wise, the person in each couple whose left hand is free joining it with the free left hand of the other couple. Two gavotte steps starting left foot............................. 4	M

(e)	Couple 1 ana couple 2 back away from each other with

1 gavotte step starting left foot........................... 2	M

(f)	Curtsey toward opposite couple swinging right foot to '

rear ........................................................2 M

Total...................................................16 M

Part IV.

Couples 1 and 2 facing each other.

Grand right and left in couples. This is done the same as in single grand right and left. The inside hand of the partners are joined then the partners swing past each other grasping free hand passing right hand then left hand all around the circle. For instance Couple 1 is facing clock-wise and Couple 2 counter clock-wise, Couple 1 will start swing out to the left of Couple 2 and the girl on the right side of each couple will have her right hand free and ia passing will clasp hands. Now couple 1 swings to the left of the next couple 2 and the girl on the left side of each couple will have her left hand free ana in passing they will clasp hands. So on around the entire circle.

(a) One gavotte step starting right to meet next couple...2 M

(b)	One gavotte step to pass couple starting with left foot. 2 M

(c)	Continue all the way around the circle until partners are back in original places. Length of music needed will depend upon number of couples dancing. Musician will watch and end music at proper time.

Digitized by Google
29

Part V.

Couples 1 and 2 advance to make group of four, kneel facing each other and placing basket of flowers on ground take from it a daisy and while keeping time to the music go through the motions of picking petals from flower acting in pantomine “He loves me, he loves me not,” making the movement to the right, “He loves me” then the movement to the left, “He loves me not” take •ne meas. of music.

Continue through eight meas. of music.................8 M

(b)	All rise to a stand and form circle of three around the

fourth person in each group of four, hands joined......... 2 M

(c)	Circle clock-wise around this dancer who stands in the

Huddle of the circle and is supposed to have been the lucky loved one, with two gavotte steps..................................4 M

(d) Curtsey to dancer in middle who stands still...... 2 M

Music ends here and faster music may he substituted with which to wind the may pole ribbons and good skipping rhythm, or if desired the same music may be played throughout.

Dancers unfasten ribbons from where they have been fastened wrth pegs to the ground, and stand facing partners ready to wind may pom- Music should not begin until dancers are ready. May pole wound as in simple grand right and left, dancers passing each •ther first on the left so that right hands are together then dancers swing out and pass the next dancer on the right so that left hands are touching. Hold ribbon in right hand. Music played -until pole is wound then should end with a series of chords as signal to dancers.

OFFICIAL CAPTAINBALL RULES.

(As adopted by the Division of Physical Education, Board of Public Education for use in Philadelphia Public Schools.)

By Carl A. Hummel, Philadelphia.

Introduction.

Captainball as now played is relatively a new game. Like many of our team games it has gradually developed from a simple game of the gymnasium with few rules to a game of high organization adaptable to the outdoor recreation centre as well as the indoor gymnasium.

Captainball is an outgrowth of the game of Center Ball or Poos Ball, which game was invented by Dr. E. A. Poos about 1890 while at the Woodward High School in Cincinnati. For this game the gymnasium or play space (about 80’ x 60’) was divided into halves by a “neutral space,” two feet wide, running the width of the gymnasium.

Digitized by v^ooQle
3*

Gymnasium mats, beat boards or any other suitable pieces of gymnasium equipment, which might serve as bases, were placed along the three sides of each half of the court, bordering the outside boundary lines as follows: one in each of the 4 comers, and one midway between the two comer bases at the end of the court. Later eircles (4 feet 6 inches in diameter) marked on the floor, supplanted these gymnasium mats and etc. as bases and hence these five bases were called “circles.”

An additional base was located in the middle of each half of the court. This base was known as “center.”

Each team consisted of eleven players: one assigned to each of the 5 “circles;” one to the “center”: and 5 as guards on the opposite half of the court. (2 guarded the "circles” and territory bordering the “neutral space,” 2 the “circles” and territory bordering the end of the court, and one the “center” and the surrounding territory.)

A basketball was put into play by a referee who tossed it up at centre so that it descended as close to the center of the neutral space as possible. The aim of each team was to get the ball into the hands of a “circle” who would in turn try to pass it to the “center” and thereby score a point for the team. The opponent guards tried to intercept the ball and in turn pass it to their “circles” and etc.

The ball was tossed up after each point that was scored.

It can readily be seen that with skillful players the major part «f the playing was centered among the players bordering the “neutral space,” for it was of no advantage to risk passing the ball to intermediate “circles” or “circles” at the ends of the court when a point could only be scored when it reached the “center.” Then again, the “circles” and guards at the ends of the court had little or nothing to do, while those bordering the center line were often overworked.

The game soon spread to other cities where it was played with many variations. In the Indianapolis public schools it was played out-of-doors with small boxes (2 ft. square) sunk flush in the gravel to serve as bases. Otherwise, the rules of play were practically the same as those used in Cincinnati.

It was very noticeable, however, that something had to be done to spread the play more evenly among the players, especially those at the ends of the court.

Accordingly, in 1904, Mr. Stecher, then Director of Physical Education in the Indianapolis Public Schools, figured that if the ■“center” base were eliminated entirely and the “circle” at the extreme end of the court were made the “center,” it would draw the bulk of the playing away from the players bordering the “neutral space” and spread it among all the players; since the ball, in order to score, would have to be passed from the "neutral space” territory (at the toss-up) to the “center” at the extreme end of the court.

The “center” base in the middle of the court was, therefore, eliminated, and the "circle” at the extreme end of the court was made the "center,” and the terms bases and captainbase substituted for the terms “circles” and “center” respectively, the “neutral space”

Digitized by LjOOQle
3i

was eliminated and replaced by a center line, and the number of players on a team reduced to 10 in number (5 basemen and 5 guards) and the game officially designated as captainball. The old style of game was retained under the name of centerball and is still played in many sections of the country.

These changes were made and the game was given a trial in public school No. 8 of Indianapolis and several other schools where the principals were interested in school games. The changes worked wonders and made the game much more interesting since it brought many more players into active participation.

It was soon observed, however, that the ball was not being passed consecutively from baseman to baseman and finally to the eaptainbaseman, but rather that the intermediate basemen were emitted in the series of passes. This was due to: First, that it added nothing to the score, to have the ball pass through the hands of all basemen, and second, that a great risk or chance was taken in passing the ball to intermediate basemen who were often the poorer players. Therefore, it was decided to award one point for each time the ball was passed from one baseman to another baseman and two points when passed from a baseman to the captain baseman.

With these changes in playing rules and regulations the game became very popular.

It took an early hold in other cities, especially in the Philadelphia Public Schools where, during the pak fifteen years, it has been fostered as a part of the organized play. The Division of Physical Education has especially been interests in the game and has aimed to revise the playing regulations whenever experiments have shown that such a change in rules would result in a better game.

One of these changes was the awarding of two points for passes from one baseman to another baseman, across the court of play, since this was much more difficult to achieve than passes on the same side of the court. Another change was the reduction of the size of the base from 2 feet square to 18 inches square.

Another change made within the past two years was the substituting of round bases, two feet in diameter, for the 18 inch square bases. This change was made after experiments showed that it was easier for a baseman to judge his bearing with a round base than with a square base.

The most recent change in the playing rules, is the rule which tends to eliminate one bad feature of captainball, namely the too frequent interruption of the game by the constant tossing of the bau up at center after each scoring play. This constant interruption of the play has made the game so “choppy” and “broken-up” that the interest in a good lively game has often been “killed.” To be truthful, the pupils often continued playing after each scoring play and as a result, the ball is only tossed up at center on the following occasions: (a) at the beginning of each half; (b) after the captain has received the ball on a scoring play; (c) after each successful free

Digitized by v^ooQle
3a

throw; (d) after each double foul play; (e) after a scoring play started by the captainbaseman, in which the ball has passed into the hands m all basemdn.

Thus, the game of captainball has evolved during the past 20 years from a simple game of low organization with the physical activity confined to a few players to a complex, highly organized game requiring skill and providing physical activity for all players.

The official rules as now accepted by the Division of Physical Education for use in the Philadelphia Public Schools represent the result of years of faithful experimentation on the parts of those vitally interested in promoting games that appeal to the normal boy and girl.

Captainball is played by two teams, with 10 players on each team. The object of the game is to score as many points as possible by throwing the ball from baseman to baseman of the same side; opposing guards tnring to prevent this by securing the ball and throwing it to their basemen on the opposite side of the center line.

Rule I. Equipment.

Sec. 1. The Court or playing space shall be a surface free from obstructions 40 feet in width and 70 feet in lenarth. £

Sec. 2. It shall be divided into two equal parts (40 feet wide by 35 feet long) by a center line.

Five bases, each 2 feet in diameter, shall be marked on each side of the court according to the following diagram.

Sec. 3. Center line and bases shall be marked by well-defined lines, which shall be not less than 2 inches in width.

Sec. 4. The ball shall be round. It shall be made of a rubber bladder covered with a leather case, not less than 30 nor more than 32 inches in circumference, and weighing not less than 20 nor more than 23 ounces.

non conns

©

CAPTAIB

©

>

LEFT CORKER

©

*

RIGHT FORWARD

©

LEFT FORWARD

©

»

t-r

• i

—I-

i

•0

A



Digitized by v^ooQle
33

Sec. 5. The home team shall provide the ball.

Sec. 6. In case the visiting team refuses to accept the ball furnished, the Referee shall decide the ball to be used.

Rule II. Players and Substitutes.

Sec. 1. Each team shall consist of 10 players, five basemen (two forward basemen, two comer basemen, and one captain base-man) and five guards (two forward guards, two comer guards, and one captain guard.) For positions see diagram Rule I.

Sec. 2. One member of each team shall be the captain. He shall be the representative of his team and may address any official on matters of interpretation or obtain essential information.

Sec. 3. A substitute may take the place of a player only when the ball has been declared dead. He shall first report to the referee.

Sec. 4. A player taken out of the game, may not re-enter the game during the same half, except as provided for in Rule X Section 2.

Sec. 5. A baseman may be changed from one position to another position not more than once during the same half.

Rule III. Officials and Their Duties.

Sec. 1. The Officials shall be a Referee and two Timekeepers who may also act as Scorers.

Sec. 2. The Referee shall be the superior official of the game. He shall put the ball in play, decide what points are scored, call fouls, decide who shall possess the ball in case of disagreement, and shall impose penalties for violations of rules. In the latter case, he shall designate the offender and the offense. A foul shall not be called until the scoring play is completed.

Sec. 3. The Timekeepers shall note when the game starts; shall note time consumed by “time out” during the game; and shall indicate by gong, pistol, or whistle the expiration of the actual playing time m each half. It is suggested the Timekeepers use one watch.

Sec. 4. The Scorers shall record the points made. Then-record shall constitute the official score of the game. They shall compare their scores after each point and any discrepancy shall be referred at once to the Referee for decision.

Rule IV. Length of Game.

Sec. 1. The game shall consist of two halves of 15 minutes each, with an intermission of 5 minutes between halves.

The teams shall change sides after the first half.

Sec. 2. The game shall terminate by the sounding of the Timekeepers signal. If a scoring play is in progress when the Timekeeper’s signal sounds the game shall continue until the ball comes into the hands of a player.

Rule V. Choice of Court.

The captains shall toss for choice of courts.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
34

Rule VI. Playing Regulations.

Sec. 1. The game shall he started by the Referee, who shall, at center, toss the hall up (at least 10 feet) between two opposing guards. A s the ball is about to descend the Referee shall blow his whistle. The ball is then in play.

Sec. 2. The opposing guards shall jump at center in the following order:

(a)	Captain guards.

(b)	Right forward guards.

(c)	Left forward guards.

(d)	Right corner guards.

(e)	Left corner guards.

Sec. 3. The ball shall he tossed up at center:

(a)	At the beginning of each half.

(b)	After the captain baseman has received the ball on a scoring play.

(c)	After each successful free throw.

(d)	After each double foul play.

(e)	After a scoring play started by the captain, in which the ball has passed into the hands of all basemen.

Sec. 4. When two opposing players get possession of the ball at the same time, the refeiee shall give the ball to the guard.

Sec. 5. If a captain baseman obtains possession of the ball from any player other than one of his basemen, he may start a scoring play. In this case no more than seven points may be made.

Sec. 6. The penalty for a foul shall be a free throw for the opponents. The referee shall award the ball to the captain whose team did not foul, who shall try for a free throw to a baseman.

Sec. 7. On a free throw the captain guard on the offending side is out of play until the throw is over, when he immediately reenters the play.

Sec. 8. A free throw shall be considered completed when the ball has come into complete possession of any player.

Sec. 9. If in a free throw, the captain baseman does not get the ball to the baseman and the ball rebounds to captain baseman again, the free throw is over and a scoring play may begin.

Sec. 10. When a captain baseman attempts a free throw and is unsuccessful the free throw is over and the play continues.

Sec. 11. In case of a double foul the ball is dead after each free throw, and shall be put into play at center after the second throw.

Sec. 12. If the ball strikes some obstruction at the sides of the court, the ball is given at that place to the guard who would otherwise have obtained it.

Sec. 13. When a baseman other than a captain baseman gets a ball from a baseman he has the privilege of continuing the scoring play by throwing the ball to any other baseman who has not had possession of it during the scoring play.

Digitized by Google
35

Sec. 14. If a guard throws a ball to a captain baseman no score is made. (See (5) of this section.)

Sec. 15. A scoring play is stopped as follows:

(a)	When the ball passes into possession of any guard, or of an opposing baseman.

(b)	By a foul committed by a player on the team which is attempting to score. A baseman who fouls while receiving the ball scores no point. A baseman who fouls while throwing the ball scores no further point.

(c)	By the ball reaching captain baseman from another base-man of the same team.

(d)	By the ball getting into the possession of any baseman for the second time during a scoring play. In this case the last pass of the ball does not score.

(e)	By the ball striking any one or anything at the sides of the court other than the player, ground, floor or ceiling.

(f)	A foul by a guard never stops the scoring play of the opponents. In such case a free throw is awarded after the scoring play is over.

Rule VII. Fouls.

Sec. 1. It is a foul for any player—

(a)	Purposely to push, strike or trip an opponent.

(b)	Purposely to touch a player. It is impossible to play the game without opposing players touching. When such touching becomes dangerous or interferes with plays or appears to be done purposely, the referee shall call a foul on the player or players for each offense.

(c)	Purposely to touch ball while in hands of opponent.

(d)	To kick the ball. (Kicking is meeting the ball with the feet, with the idea of propelling it.) Blocking with the feet is necessary and allowable.

(e)	To delay the game for the purpose of using up time. Delay for team work and signals must be brief.

Sec. 2. It is a foul for a guard—

(a)	To touch a base with any part of his body.

(b)	To touch the ground or floor on the opposite side of the middle line, (except that a guard on the jump at center toss may drop with feet across the line.)

(c)	Who has crossed the line, to touch the ball or interfere with play until he has returned to his side of the court.

(d)	To touch the ball while it is going up at center.

(e)	Jumping at center, to catch the ball or to touch the ball a second time unless it has struck another player or the ground or floor.

(f)	To carry ball more than one step or to roll or bounce it and take it again at an advanced point.

(g)	To guard a captain baseman while he is making a free throw.

(n) When an opposing baseman has the ball, to guard closer

than one foot to the base. (The base is interpreted as being the surface enclosed by the circle and the column of air above it.)

Digitized by LjOOQle
36

(i)	To straddle a base. All space above the base is property of the baseman, and may not be occupied by any part of the guard's hody. While jumping to block high throws over the baseman's head, the hands of the guard may be used above the base.

(j)	To guard a baseman already guarded.

Sec. 3. It is a foul for a baseman—

(a)	Purposely to strike, trip or push an opponent.

(b)	To leave the base with both feet unless he jumps up in the air, in which case a foot must come down on base first.

(c)	When only one foot is on base, to lift that foot from the base.

RuleVIII. Interpretation.

Sec. 1. Guards may;—

(a)	Drop on other side of center line while jumping at center

toss.

(b)	Reach across the middle line at any time.

(c)	Guard any player at any time except captain baseman or free throw (see Rule VII - Sec. 2-j.)

Sec. 2. Basemen may—

(a)	Use a brief time for signals or team work.

(b)	Jump in air for ball.

(c)	Change base foot at any time.

Rule IX. Scoring.

Sec. 1. One point for throwing the ball from baseman to base-man, both basemen being on the same side of court, right or left.

Sec. 2. Two points for throwing ball from baseman to captain.

Sec. 3. Two points for throwing the ball across the court from a right baseman to a left baseman or vice versa. (See diagram.)

Sec. 4. One point for throwing the ball from captain to baseman when captain starts scoring play.

Sec. 5. One point for throwing ball from captain to baseman on a free throw.

NOTE: If the ball is touched or batted by an opposing guard, it does not prevent a score, unless that guard has unmistakably had possession of the ball.

Rule X. Conduct of Players.

Sec. 1. The Referee shall have the power to disqualify any player for the remainder of game for—

(a)	Making derogatory remarks to or about officials or opponents.

(b)	Rough play.

Sec. 2. A substitute shall take the place of a disqualified player.

Rule XI. Forfeited Game.

Sec. 1. Any team refusing to play, after receiving instructions to do so from the Referee, shall forfeit the game or match.

Sec. 2. The score of a forfeited game shall be 2-0.
37

Rule XII. Decisions.

Sec. 1. Decisions of the officials as to matters of fact are final.

Sec. 2. Decisions pertaining to the interpretation of the rules may be called into question at once, but only Dy the captains of the contesting teams.

Sec. 3. When a question pertaining to interpretation of the rules has not been settled conclusively but will be carried to higher authority for decision, the game shall proceed as before, the Referee making proper note of the protest.

Rule XIII. Time Out.

Sec. 1. “Time out” shall be called by the Referee, but the ball shall be in play until the whistle is blown.

Sec. 2. The Captain or Faculty Representative may ask for “Time out,” only when the ball is in possession of their team.

Rule XIV. Coaching.

There shall be no coaching from the side lines during the progress of the game by anyone officially connected with either team, nor shall any such person go on the court during the progress of the game, except with permission of the Referee. Penalty-—Two free throws for the opponents.

♦ ------------------------------- ■>

N OTES AND COMMENT^

♦— ■■ ------------- — ----------- ■»

AMERCIAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION.

Preliminary Program of the National Convention, Springfield, Massachusetts, April 11—14, 1923.

Registration Fee for non-members $2.00. Members of the American Physical Education Association Register Free.

Preconvention Program, April 10—11.

Visitation of the public schools in Springfield and the international Y. M. C. A. College, the colleges at Amherst, Mt. Holyoke, and Smith College.

All wishing to avail themselves of the visitation program should write to Franklin J. Gray, School Dept. Administration Bldg. Springfield, Mass.

The Railway Certificates will be available for the dates April 6—18 for return. They must be countersigned before 4 o’clock at the Convention Hall, April 13.

Railway certificates are available for a one-way fare of 67 cents ©rover.

Digitized by v^ooQle
The following is the list of roads over which members can pui* chase reduced fare certificates:

New England Passenger Association Territory; Central Passenger Association Territory; Trunk Line Association Territory; Canadian Passenger Association Territory.

Wednesday Evening.

Address of welcome by the Mayor. Addresses by superintendent of schools, Dr. James H. Van Sickle, Springfield; State Commissioner of Education, Payson Smith- president of the Association, Carl L. Schrader, state director of physical education for Massachusetts. Informal reception and dance will follow the addresses.

Thursday Morning.

General session. General topic for the convention “Standards for Measuring Progress." Topic, “Organic Efficiency.”

“Physical Efficiency and the Limitation of Measurements of Efficiency," Dr. E. C. Schneider, Professor of Biology, Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn.; Director of Dept. Physiology of the School of Aviation and Medicine, Mitchel’s Field.

Respiratory Efficiency. Neuromuscular Efficiency.

“The Relation of Internal Efficiency to Physical Efficiency", Frank A. Hartman, M. D.; Physiological Laboratory, Buffalo, N. Y.

Thursday Noon.

Alumni reunions.

Thursday Afternoon.

Sectional meetings: Public Schools Section; Society of Directors of Physical Education in Colleges under leadership of Dr. Paul C* Phillips of Amherst College.

Thursday Evening.

Banquet. Presiding officer, president of the Association, Carl L. Schrader. Speaker, President Stephen H. Olin of Wesleyan University. Another speaker to be secured.

Friday Morning.

General Session. General topic, “Nutritional Efficiency.” Two papers will be presented on this subject. G. B. Affleck, International Y. M. C. A. College, will summarize the examination of

11,000	children in the Springfield, Mass., schools who have been measured six times during the last year and a half. Charts and measurements of progress will be shown. Educational Content of Physical Education.' Dr. George E. Dawson of the International Y. M. C. A. College.

Friday Afternoon.

Sectional meetings:

Women’s Athletic Section, leader, Miss Blanche Trilling, University of Wisconsin, chairman of the Women’s Committee oa Athletics.
39

Report on Physical Accomplishment Tests for Girls from Twelve to Twenty-one, Ethel Perrin, Ass’t. Dir. of Health Education, Detroit, Mich., Public Schools.

“Advantages and Disadvantages of Track Athletics for Girls." Carl L. Schrader, Supr. of Physical Education, Boston, Mass.

“Standardization of Track Athletics for Elementary and Secondary School Group,” Janet Walter, Dir. Girls Atnletics, Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

Report of the Committee on Track Athletics for Girls and Women, Katherine Sibley, Dir. Physical Education for Women, Syracuse Univ.

Report of Committee on Hockey. Constance K. Applebee, Dir. Physical Education, Bryn Mawr College.

“Soccer as a Game for Girls," Helen Frost, Instr. Physical Education, Teachers College, Columbia University.

Therapeutic Section under leadership of Dr. Carroll L. Storey, Detroit:

“The Variations in the Anatomic Structure of the Human Body with the Resulting Effect upon the Flexibility and the General Posture.” Joel E. Goldthwaite, M. D., Boston, Mass.

“Static Infantile Paralysis and Its Treatment,” Stacy B. Betz-ler, Springfield College.

Miriam T. Sweeny, Subject to be announced.

Y. M. C. A. Section, under leadership of Dr. John Brown, Jr., Int. Committee, Y. M. C. A. New York City.

Playground Section:

“Injecting the Spirit of Play into a Physical Education Program,” Dr. Stimson, representing the Playground and Recreation Association of America.

Friday Evening.

Physical education demonstration. The demonstration will be given in the Springfield Auditorium, which seats 4,000 people. The work will all be given on the stage of the Auditorium, whicn is approximately the size of an ordinaiy gymnasium. The demonstration will be under the direction of Franklin J. Gray, director of physical education, Springfield public schools.

Saturday Morning.

Men’s and Boy’s Athletics. Program under the direction of Elmer Berry, President of the Athletic Research Society. _____

Sargent's Energy Test, Ledyard Sargent, Cambridge, Mass.

“A Sportsmanship Campaign,” Ethel Perrin, Detroit, Mich.

“Athletic Tests for Women,” “Correlation of Athletics and Scholarship,” John L. Griffith.

The women’s athletic committee will be in session during Saturday morning.

Large and interesting commercial and educational exhibits are being arranged.

Hotel Convention Headquarters, Hotel Kimball. Convention Registration Headquarters, Auditorium Building.

Digitized by Google
40

St. Louis, Mo., March 7, 1923.

To the Editor of Mind and Body:

As head of the Department of Physical Education in the Public Schools of St. Louis, Mo., during the last twenty years, I am personally much concerned about the statement made by Dr. Jessie F. Williams in his recently published book entitled *'‘Organization and Administration of Physical Education.” I refer particularly to his statement on pages 7 and 8 which reads:—“It is interesting and important that physical education in Cincinnati, Milwaukee and St. Louis is primarily German in type, and yet it represents in results no particular achievement. In comparison with New York City, Detroit and San Francisco and other places it is distinctly inferior. This may be due to other factors.”

This is a very strong statement to make, and in justice to the three men having charge of the Departments of Physical Education in the three cities mentioned,—ought to be proven, especially as to results obtained compared with the other cities mentioned.

So	far as I can discover Dr. Williams has never observed the work personally in any of the three cities and in justice to him I doubt that he would have made these severe statements had he made personal observations in any one of the three cities since 1917.

I	readily admit, and with me Dr. Williams will admit, that the physical training work first introduced into the public schools of the country was of German and Swedish origin. There was no other system available for this purpose at that time and we ought to be grateful to the leaders of both systems for giving us this so necessary and valuable start in the development of real physical education. If Dr. Williams believes that no progress has been made in the three cities criticised, in bringing physical education in line with up-to-date modem education as much as such is practicl and possible, is greatly in error.

In 1916 the courses of study in all subjects of the elementary and high school curriculum in the St. Louis Public Schools were revised with the motto of “Education for Use in Life as a Basis.” Each subject was assigned to a special committee consisting of principals, teachers and supervisors, many of these having taken a course at Columbia University. After two years of study and deliberation the new course of physical education for both elementary and high schools was approved and officially put into practice. The se ect on of material and the method of application is constantly keeping step with modem educational methods whenever the school conditions for physical education will permit such improvements.

I	am quite sure that equal progress in this work has been made in Cincinnati and Milwaukee during that time. Had Dr. Williams published his book with the above statement before 1916 his criticism of using the German System,—so far as St. Louis is concerned, wou d have needed no rep y, but bringing his statement in a book published in 1922 is not fair, and it can not pass without an earnest protest.

Yours respectfully,

A.	E. Kindervater.

Google
41

BOOK AND PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS WARNED AGAINST USE OF SMALL TYPE.*

A warning that the extensive use of printing type of smaller dimensions than 10-point is becoming a serious factor among the contributory causes of eye-fatigue ana impairment of vision is contained in a communication from The National Committee for the Prevention of Blindness to the various associations of book and periodical publishers, advertisers, printers, school boards, libraries and other large users of producers oLprinted matter.

The statement calls attention to the fact that, “the use of type smaller than 10-point, not only has a harmful effect on the eyesight of the reader, but often defeats its own purpose by repelling the potential reader who realizes that the reading of such type hurts or tires his eyes.” The amount of money lost by advertisers and publishers through the waste circulation that results from the use of type faces difficult to read because of smallness or design, says the National Committee for the Prevention of Blindness, is probably greater than the cost of the extra space and paper stock necessary if larger type is used.

Particularly in the case of school books and other publications read by children is the use of small type harmful, the committee says. Reading matter intended for children of any age should never be printed in type smaller than 10-point. The type sizes recommended for children by the National Committee For The Prevention of Blindness follow:

For children 12 years of age......................10	point

For children between 9 ana 12 years...............12	point

For children between 8 and 9 years................14	point

For children between 7 and 8 years................18	point

For children under 7 years ............... 24	to	30	point

'fhe publishers of geography and history maps are among the most flagrant offenders in this respect, the committee reports. A special effort to induce publishers of school maps to use larger type will be made.

A research recently conducted by the Department of Education of the State of Ohio showed that certain styles of 24 point type were more easily read by young children than other styles of 36 point. The ultimate abolition of the use of all 6-point and smaller types of any styles is urged by the committee. Publishers, printers, and advertisers who have on hand large stocks of such small types are urged to use them only when their use is unavoidable, and to

scrap such type at the earliest opportunity.	_____

As an indication of the growing appreciation of the effect of type sizes on eyesight, the National Committee For The Prevention

* From the National Committee for the Prevention of Blindness, 130 East 22nd Street, New York City.

Digitized by v^ooQle
4*

of Blindness reports that at least two public libraries, at St. Louis, Mo., and Springfield, Mass., have set aside departments of “Books for Tired Eyes” in which are included only books of 14 and 18 point type. These books are proving exceedingly popular with older people. Plans are also under way among Bible societies to publish the Book of Psalms in larger type for older readers and similar step6 are being considered by the publishers fraternal organization journals read largely by older persons.

The January issue of Mind and Body reprinted an article on the use of the Spirometer as it appeared in the October issue of the “Pennsylvania School Journal.” In the current issue of the same Journal we find the following warning against the indiscriminate use not only of the spirometer, but of all violent breathing exercises in diseases of the lungs. This warning was written by the medical secretary of the National Tuberculosis Association.

“Spirometer Dangerous.’'

In the treatment of tuberculosis, REST is the most important factor. Absolute rest in bed for the patient restores the balance between the intake of energy-producing material and the output of vital energy in work. Relative rest for the affected lung lowers the number and force of respirations and gives nature opportunity for reducing the inflammation and carrying on the healing process.

Severe muscular strain and fatiguing physical exercise have no place in the rational treatment of tuberculosis. The former may cause hemorrhage or collapse of the lung; the latter often diminishes bodily resistance. At such a time the tuberculosis germs and their poisons are produced in sufficient quantities to prove fatal.

Preventable relapses and permanent arrest of the disease depend upon a very gradual return to exercise and work after active symptoms have disappeared, such exercise and work to be prescribed by an experienced physician and carried out under his direct supervision. Exercise or work governed only by the patient’s whim has prevented recovery, more than any other single factor. It is dangerous to allow patients with fever and other active symptoms to indulge in physical exercise.

Forced, violent breathing exercises are always contra-indicated in diseases of the lungs. Active inflammation in the lungs requires rest, since excessive motion here, just as in an affected joint or muscle increases congestion and inflammation.

It is our conviction that the use of the spirometer has no place in the treatment of tuberculous disease of the lungs since it encourages one to outdo his own breathing-capacity record or that of others. A young person with no manifest disease but with a limited breathing capacity, under the direct supervision of a teacher acquainted with the anatomy and physiology of the lungs, might use
43

this apparatus to advantage; but proper methods of breathing can easily and perhaps more safely be taught by less strenuous methods.

For one who has even incipient tuberculosis to rely upon the spirometer is a most risky procedure. No experienced physician can recommend its popular use in treating this disease.

“History of Physical Education” by Fred E. Leonard, M. D. 361 pages, 6 by 9 1-2 inches, illustrated. Published by Lea and Febiger, Philadelphia. Price $4.00.

Dr. Leonard, who died since the publication of this book, was the American historian of our profession. If any one wanted to get the best available historical information on any subject connected with physical education it was customary to write to Leonard. Many, also, were the letters that came from Oberlin, Ohio, asking for detailed information on some points that were not clear in Leonard's mind. The results of this painstaking process, extending over thirty years, are embodied in the present book.

The volume, which is heartily recommended, is divided into two parts, part one being the history of physical education in Europe, and part two covering the United States. A statement of the different chapters will give the reader an idea of the wealth of valuable material to be found in a condensed form in Leonard’s book. Chap. I treats of the Greeks; Chapter II of the Romans, Chapter III of the Teutonic Invaders of the Roman Empire; Chapter IV of the Asceticism in the Early Christian church; Chapter V of the Monastery and Cathedral Schools; Chapter VI of Chivalry; Chapter VII of the Universities of the Middle Ages; Chapter VIII of the Period of the Renaissance and the Reformation; Chapter IX of Locke and Rousseau; Chapter X of the Beginnings of Modern Physical Education in Germany; Chapter XI of Jahn and Popular Gymnastics in Germany; Chapter XII of Spiess, the Father of German School Gymnastics; Chapter XIII of Physical Training in the Prussian Schools; Chapter XIV of the Playground Movement in Germany, Chapter XV of Ling, the Father of Physical Education in Sweden, Chapter XVI of Ling’s Successors at the Central Institute, Chapter

XVII	of Physical Education in the schools of Sweden, Chapter

XVIII	of Physical Education in Denmark, Chapter XIX of Great Britain, Chapter XX International Gatherings and Festivals, closes part I with its 215 pages.

Part II in 132 pages, covers the United States in the following manner. Chapter XXI speaks of the First Introduction of Jahn Gymnastics into America; Chapter XXII of the New Gymnastics of Dio Lewis, Chapter XXIII of Physical Education in American Colleges and Universities, Chapter XXIV of German-American Gymnastic Societies and the Tumerbund; Chapter XXV of Physical Training in the Young Men’s Christian Associations; Chapter XXVI of Swedish School Gymnastics; Chapter XXVII of the

book an views.
44

Playground Movement, and of Statewide Physical Education. The final chapter is devoted to the Training of Teachers.

Leonard’s book, dedicated to the memory of Dr. Edward Mussey Hartwell, is one of the Physical Education Series edited by Dr. R. Tait McKenzie. In the preface the editor calls attention to the value that a book of this kind has to the student of physical education not only so far as information is concerned, but of its value in being able to kindle the inspiration that is needed to go forward in one’s chosen field in the face of obstacles. “That soul is indeed dead’’ says the editor “that does not react with a generous glow when reading the difficulties overcome and the work accomplished by the heroes of any field of endeavor, and what could be more inspiring at this time than to have set forth the conquests and defeats of those patriotic spirits whose lives have been given to upbuilding the health and fitness of the youth of the world, throughout the ages, as a guide and inspiration to us who have these same problems to meet at the present time.’’

William A Stecher,

“Body Mechanics and Health” by Thomas and Goldthwait. 112 pages, 5 by 7 inches, illustrated. Published by Houghton Mifflin Company, Boston.

This book will fulfill the hope of the authors in being “of practical use to many who direct the physical education of the children of our schools.” It is an excellent exposition of the common deformities found among school children, with a scientific explanation and a set of what may be called corrective exercises for each. The development of a strong, erect figure should be the ideal aim of physical education, to be maintained at all times, not, as is often the case, only during the free exercise period of a lesson. Good body mechanics means the correct poise and control of the body with the normal functioning of every organ, and the authors go to extremes in pointing out the serious results of faulty posture.

It is very evident, say the authors, that our system must be wrong, for the majority of college students (of certain colleges) are far below the standards set for physical fitness. Tremendous responsibility and unwarranted blame is then heaped upon the teachers of physical education—“the average public school teacher of physical education follows as nearly as possible the old time-honored Swedish day’s order,” and “lessons emphasize arm and leg exercises,” are two points that do not seem to state the facts as they are. Every large public school system must have a well-rounded course of study (not necessarily based upon the Swedish system); and trunk exercises make up the greater part of a lesson. We must remember that the city does not have the opportunities for developing the arms and legs that the country or small town boy has. The facts show that many boys cannot cnin the bar even one time, and in an emergency his arms would avail him little. His play is also greatly restricted.

Digitized by LjOOQle
45

On another point the authors take the standpoint of the small town. How can a large system provide the places for pupils’ rest periods? We must not forget that the schools are not hospitals, and, also, that our teachers are not orthopedic specialists. Finally, before heaping so much reproach upon the hard working physical education teacher, the authors should have taken into consideration one extremely important fact. All psychologists agree that there are many individuals who can develop mentally to a very low 1 evel, beyond which point they never advance,—that is, the class of morons. Are we not justified in saying that there are just as many “physical morons” as mental morons?

If the reader of this valuable book will not be influenced too greatly by the severe criticism hurled at the teacher of physical education; if he will ignore the thrusts made from time to time; if he will go through and digest the scientific exposition of deformities and their evil effects upon health—if he will do all this and make his way with an open mind to the chapter entitled “Progressive Exercises,” he will De awarded with a wealth of material—a set of exercises that will be welcomed by every teacher and others interested in the health and welfare of children. These exercises, if followed, cannot help but develop bodily poise and result in what the authors call good body mechanics, let alone allowing their use as a system of corrective exercises. As a final word, we will all agree with the authors that our slogan should be prevention rather than cure or correction.

Samuel J. Judelsohn.

“Exercise in Education and Medicine ” by R. Tait McKenzie, M. D. 601 pages, 6 1-2 by 9 1-2 inches, 445 illustrations. Published by W. B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia. Price $5.00.

This is the third edition of Dr. McKenzie’s book. Like all other books that are worth while, the war has necessitated a large re-writing of many of its parts. Part I, treating of Exercise in Education, will naturally appeal most to teachers of physical education; and in this part these chapters dealing with the efficiency of the heart, and the effects of exercise on the heart will be studied with great care. In Part II Exercise in Medicine, the author describes in detail those forms of disease and malformation that may favorably be affected by exercise. The book is warmly recommended to all teachers. It is one of those rare books to which a teacher may turn for sane advice when in doubt about the uses of exercises.

William A. Stecher.

“A Handbook of Games and Programs ” by William Ralph La Porte. 125 pages, 51-2x8 inches. Published by The Abingdon Press, New York. Price, $1.00.

“A Handbook of Games and Programs” is a collection of games, many of which are already familiar to teachers and social workers.

Digitized by Tooele
4$

In arranging the “contents” the author has borrowed his ideas of classification from the incomparable index to Jessie H. Bancroft’s book of "Games for the Playground, Home, School and Gymnasium.”

The contents of the book are classified and divided into eleven chapters, that will simplify making a choice and selection of games for various occasions. Chapter 1. Social Leadership; 2. Get Acquainted Games; 3. Active Social Games; 4. Quiet Social Games;

5.	Competitive Social Games; 6. Social programs and Special Themes; 7. Social Programs for Special Occasions; 8. Social Stunts and Skits; 9. Playground Games; 10. Relay Races; 11. Physical Stunts, Individual Stunts, Dual Feats and Contests.

The chapter on Social Leadership contains some very good suggestions and methods for conducting “social” programs. In the preface the author states that “the descriptions throughout are very brief, yet complete enough to be readily understood and followed by a leader who possesses imagination and ingenuity.” If the author had experience in training teachers for their work, he would realize that there are very few leaders who possess the qualities named. It has been my experience that teachers, especially the young and inexperienced teachers, need very specific directions and helps in playing and conducting games.

The names of many of the games in this book show a forced effect to produce new games. “Swat the Kaiser,” “Passing the Hun” served their purpose as camouflage games during the war, but in a text book they should be listed under their original names. “Elopement,” “Slang,” Drain the Bottle,” “Feed the Blind,” “Pie Eating” and other gorging contests should be eliminated. It is surprising that an author should encourage such contests in these days of Health Education. The war has revealed the need of health training and more recreation. The present need, however, is not for more games and a greater variety of games, but for a few well-chosen, standardized games and a place to play them.

The book is designed, no doubt, to help leaders or directors of recreational activities and club leaders within the church and the liome, where the participants have certain interests in common. For playground teachers of inexperience we would not recommend it.

Elizabeth O'Neill.

HEALTH WORK.

An extract from the Annual Report of the Superintendent of Schools of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania.

A Health Program.—At the County Institute held before the opening of the term our teachers were provided with a comprehensive health program. This program is as follows:

1. Medical Inspection—(1) Inform yourself as to the requirements of the law and the purposes and possibilities of medical inspection ; (2) find out who the inspector is and urge an early in-

Digitized by v^ooQle
47

spection; (3) aid the inspector; (4) gather all possible helpful information arising from inspection.

2. FoUow-uv	Work cf Medical Inspection—Through the children themselves; with the parents; with individuals or organizations interested; with public health nurses. Wage a campaign of education for school nurses.

3.	Physical Measurement—Take height and weight monthly. Give tests in running, jumping, chinning, and throwing. See Course of Study.

4.	Sanitation—Make a survey of cleanliness, neatness, and tidiness of person, clothing, etc.; or books, desks, floor, room, yard, toilets, home, neighborhood, occupations. Use results of survey as a basis for instruction and training.

5.	Instruction—It must be vital, useful, practical, regular, systematic, direct. Follow course of study. It must also be suggestive, incidental, and constant. It must deal with daily health nabits.

6.	Training in Health Habits—Make children practice habits of cleanliness and sanitation; of eating and drinking properly; organize nutrition classes or clubs; give constant attention to sleeping, resting, recreation, to exercise such as story plays, folk dances, and rhythmical exercises; marching; calisthenics—relief and corrective; play; athletics.

7.	Athletics—Secure the benefits of County-wide organization. Promote not only a school team, but mass athletics as well. Observe fall, winter, and spring seasons. Trophies are provided for County championships.

INTERNATIONAL Y. M. C. A. COLLEGE SUMMER SESSION—July 2—31, 1923.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND ATHLETIC COACHING School of Coaching

Football by Rockne of Notre Dame.

Baseball by Berry of Springfield.

Track by Rockne of Norte Dame and Otto of Springfield.

Basketball by Otto of Springfield.

Swimming, Soccer, Boxing, Wrestling.

School of Gymnastics. Tactics, Calisthenics, Dancing, Apparatus Games and Practice Teaching.

Y. M. C. A. Directors. A graded four year course begins in 1923 leading to a certificate.

Public School Directors. A graded four year course begins in 1923 leading to a Certificate.

Theoretical Courses in Anatomy, Physiology, Hygiene, Physical Diagnosis, Anthropometry etc. of an intensive, double period character giving full credit toward the Bachelor's and Master's Degree in Physical Education.

Information and Bulletin.

Address ELMER BERRY, Director Summer School.

Springfield, Massachusetts.

Digitized by t^ooQle
48

Gymnasium Apparatus Playground Apparatus Steel Lockers

WRITE FOR CATALOG

FRED MEDART MANUFACTURING CO.

ST. LOUIS, MO.

Branch Offices — New York, Chicago, Kansas City, San Francisco

Harvard University—Physical Education Courses

Master's Degree. Qualified students (college graduates) may become candidates for the degree of Master of Education in the Graduate School of Education on a program of study and training in physical education. Minimum period of residence and study one academic year, or four summer school sessions.

Harvard certificate. Students who satisfactorily complete the full program of Theory and Practice courses offered in the Harvard Summer School of Physical Education will be granted a certificate by the University.

For information and catalogue, address

WILLIAM H. GEER, Director of Physical Education, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

A New Book on Basket Ball

By one of the greatest coaches of the game in America.

DR. W. E. MEANWELL, UNIVERSITY OF WIS.

In ten years, Dr. Mean well's teams have played 173 games and have won 154 of them.

The “Wisconsin System" of basket ball is widely known for its effectiveness. This system was evolved by the author of this new book in which the author gives to the public, his methods and their application.

Cloth Bound—200 pages—packed full of real information, invaluable to the coach of any team. 70 diagrams and illustrations. Intensely practical.

Price: $2.50 plus 20 cents for postage and insurance.

Order Thru MIND AND BODY New Ulm, Minn.

Digitized by L^ooQle