SHOT)	* BODY

Vol. 19.

APRIL, 1912.

No. 208

Fditorial Committee ;

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

SOME STUDIES ON THE SO-CALLED “ABNORMALLY INTELLIGENT” PUPILS.

By Dr. Yasusaburo Sakaki, of the imperial Education Department and Professor of Psychiatry at the Imperial University, Japan.

A. ON “ABNORMALLY INTELLIGENT” PUPILS.

By “abnormally intelligent” pupils, those pupils are meant who are distinctly m advance of the rest of their class, both as regards mentality and personal characteristics. They are above the average and must, therefore, he regarded as abnormal children. In using this term we do not wish to imply that the children are necessarily pathological. Some of these abnormally advanced children maintain their high level throughout development but others drop down to the average, or even below it, later on.

The causes of this advanced mentality differ greatly and may be classified as follows:

Group I. The actual genius, gifted with an innate and early-matured intelligence of a higher order, this superiority being stable throughout life.

Group II. Children of a less abnormal intelligence, hut gifted with a good memory' and the power of concentration; industrious and persevering by nature. Healthy in body and not easily fatigued. This may he taken to be the true abnormally intelligent type.

Group III. Children who correspond with Group II in all respects hut that of bodily health. Iu this respect they more nearly resemble the “nervous” type of child.

Group IV. Children whose intelligence is in no degree above the normal standard, but who are stimulated to mental exertion by environmental influences.

Group V. Children of the “precocious” type.

Group VI. So called “nervous” children. These are easily stimulated by the spirit of competition and are readily intimidated by teachers or parents, being very sensitive to adverse criticism. This group is usually pathological, and the children generally have a “nervous” family history. They are frequently weak and anaemic.

Digitized by U.ooQle
Group \TTI. Children who are not well-balanced mentally and psychically. They sometimes show moral deficiency combined with a high degree of mental intelligence.

This classification is quite arbitrary, but it has often struck me that the study of pedagogy has never taken sufficient count of this large class of hyper-intelligent children, while the literature dealing with de-defective children is so ample as almost to be exhaustive.

Dealing now in detail with the above seven groups we will first refer to the “young genius.” It is very difficult to define a genius, but we may say that the famous geniuses of the world’s history are. as a rule, individuals who have accomplished some original and inventive work. The claims of genius are. however, not recognized before manhood is attained, and sometimes not during life at all. So that one may not rightly call any child a genius. Many geniuses have not been conspicuous lor unusual gifts during childhood, as, e. g. Newt-on, Helmholtz, and many others. But other great men have shown unusual gifts at an early age, including Mozart, Raphael, etc. Some very promising children, however, dew not carry out their early promise of great mental gifts. Some geniuses, again, have some extraordinary gifts and faculties for which the age in which they live has apparently no use, and these are therefore unappreciated by society.

There seems to he some very intimate connection between genius and mental disease. According to Loewenfeld, geniuses came within two categories, the true genius and the pathological genius. Those in the former are healthy and their gifts may be termed “heaven-sent,” as, for instance, Washington, Confucius, Titian and Rubens. But the second order of genius is the more common and many examples could be quoted—e. g. Rousseau, De Quincev, who was an' opium-eater, and Nietzsche, who died of mental disease. Napoleon, Mirabeau, Alexander the Great, Caesar and St. Paul were all said to have been epileptics, and Goethe and Shakespeare to have suffered from some form of mental disease. Hereditary insanity and mental degeneracy can frequently be discovered in the family histories of geniuses. They themselves may escape any taint of this order, hut their descendants are not always equally fortunate.

It would he superfluous to suggest any special method of education for prospective geniuses as they are difficult to dilTerentiate at an early stage of growth, and their number must necessarily be very limited. Precocious children have certain points in common with geniuses during childhood. Many geniuses have been precocious children. On the other hand, many precocious children fall back as they grow older and some become nervous or psychopathic during adolesence, while at best few of them maintain a place above the average.

Precocity may he either inborn or acquired, general or specialized. Inborn precocity is generally due to hereditary influences. Such subjects are frequently descended from families displaying nervous instability. Subjects showing acquired precocity vary according to environmental, influences. Where the influences are harmful the effects of such precocity are very difficult to eradicate, particularly when it takes the form of sexual precocity. The term ^specialized precocity” we apply

Digitized by CjOOQle
-site children of the “Wunder-kinder” type—musical infant prodigies, marvellous budding poets and painters, etc. Such children frequently run themselves oiit during childhood and sink back into m'ediocritv on attaining maturity. It is not infrequent to find instances of early suicide among this class. They are mostly of a melancholy, introspective and unsociable type. If mental disease attacks them it generally takes the form of dementia praecox with its manifold range of symptoms. Others suffer from a high degree of neurasthenia or hysteria.

All the above groups of abnormally intelligent children except Group II and Group 1Y show more or less strong hereditary influences, the most pronounced being the “nervous” children. Strictly speaking, it is only the SECOND group which may be regarded as absolutely free from nervous instability. It is therefore of great importance that all abnormally intelligent children should receive as careful attention and be as closely studied as mentally deficient ones.

The question arises whether all the children, normal and abnormal, should be educated together, or whether each class should be educated separately. But the abnormally intelligent children differ among themselves so greatly in type that to educate them all together on one special line would be very inappropriate.

The most critical from a pathological point of view are the precocious children, and they likewise constitute a danger to the normal children. These may be drawn to imitate'them and to expend undue mental power on hopeless tasks. Among the nervous children are often to be found hysterical subjects and children suffering from consitution-al debility calling for curative measures. Moral perverts should be weeded out and sent to suitable institutions. Those children who respond to externa] stimulation may safely mingle with the normal pupils, while those belonging to Croup II may have a very good influence on the rest of the class and contribute to raise its standard of mental attainment.

B.	SOME RESULTS OF EXPERIMENTAL RESEARCH DEALING WITH THE SO-CALLED ABNORMALLY INTELLIGENT

PUPILS.

By Y. Sakaki, Professor of Psychiatry and T. Tomono, Teacher at the Fukuoka Normal School.

For purpose of research 79 pupils showing a quality of intelligence and deportment markedly above the average class-level were selected out of 332 pupils who were distributed in 7 classes, (the entrants being excluded as unsuitable for experimental purposes.) In conjunction with the teachers a very careful selection was made, special attention being paid to the individual data and domiciliary conditions.

The following pupils were the selected subjects:

High School	2nd vear	7 girls.
	1st ” “	6 “
Klemeutary School	5th & 6th years	13 boys.
	4th year	14 girls.
	4th year	13 pupils.
	3rd year	10 “
	2nd vear	10

Digitized by

Google
-52-

The tests applied were as follows:	1.	Memory	test.	2.	Testing	of

synthetical power. 3. Filling in blanks method. 4. Addition method.

5.	Proof-correcting. 6. Observation.

Further information secured was as follows:

PUPIL'S SCHEDULE.

Address, Class, Age.

Domiciliary data:

Parents, if living, age and occupation, if dead, cause of death. Character and relation with pupil.

Bodily and mental condition. Alchoholic.

Brothers and Sisters:

Bodily and mental condition. Social status.

Other Members, grandparents, etc. Servants.

Locality of Home and style of neighborhood:

Physical Development:

Age at closure of fontanelle; age when teeth appeared; age when speech began; age when walking began.

Amount and nature of sleep?

State of nutrition?

Physical Examination:

Height, weight, chest measurement, ordinary; deep inspiration, forcible expiration.

Muscula r devel opmen t :

Spine, eyes, ears, teeth. Past disease or injuries, date duration, effect, etc. Temperament.	(To	be	concluded.)

A NEW INVESTIGATION INTO THE CAUSES AND THE RATIONAL TREATMENT OF CHRONIC HABITUAL CONSTIPATION.*

By Frof. Dr. Ad. Schmidt of Halle o|S., Germany.

Reprinted from the Muenchener Medizinische Wochenschrift.

Notwithstanding the many new suggestions for the treatment of chronic habitual constipation which are constantly being put forward, enquiry into the causes of the affection has been strangely neglected. In reality there exists only one explanation of its origin and symptoms, which is quoted by mod: authors (although they cannot give reasons for accepting it,) viz. that it is to be sought in primary damage to the apparatus of motion, that is to say the nerves and muscles of the large intestine. Careful observation based upon tests of the function of this intestine** has convinced me, however, that in many cases, especially in those of an atonic character, this explanation is not correct, or at the very least must be qualified by the addition that, in cases of chronic habitual constipation, the food is over-digested as compared with normal conditions and that, as a result, the feces are insufficient in quantity and of too hard a consistency. I regard this disturbance

* From a report at the International Science Congress at Meran.

•* Compare: “On the testing of the functions of the large intestine by means of controlled diet.” Wiesbaden 1904.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-53-

of digestion as the primary, and the insufficient motoric action of the large intestine as the secondary cause, and I conclude that, because a deficient quantity of undigested food-residue remains behind, correspondingly fewer bacteria are developed, and the proportion of decomposition-products generated, such as a volatile and higher fatty acids, gases etc. is insufficient to induce peristalsis.

I base this conclusion upon a large number of observations made in cases of constipation treated with a controlled diet. In all these cases, without exception, the feces showed not only a very slight proportion of water, but also remarkably small percentages of dry matter, and, under the microscope, exceptionally scanty traces of food. Stras-burgeiy* vrhcse experience was similar to mine, also discovered by his method of weighing bacteria that the proportion of microbes in the feces of chronically constipated subjects is much smaller than in those of normal subjects, i. c. only about two-thirds. In order to obtain figures which should he above suspicion, I afterwards induced Dr. Lohrisch** to make a series of systematic tests, in each case placing the subject on a three days’ controlled diet. The result showed that constipated subjects excreted on an average only 33.9 grammes of dry feces with a caloric value of 179.2, against 59.3 grammes with a heat value of 260.1 in normal subjects. The respective proportions were: Nitrogen normal 2.98, constipated 1.55; fatty matter, normal 13.78, constipated 1.39. But when normal subjects were made constipated by opium, the proportion of water alone in their feces was reduced to that of the chronically constipated, whereas the absolute weight of dry matter in the feces, and the proportions of Nitrogen, fatty matter, and hydrocarbons remained as before. Particularly interesting and of great practical value is another fact, also determined by Lohrisch, viz. that cellulose, or at any rate the tender cellulose of fresh vegetables, is more thoroughly exhausted in the digestive canal of constipated than of normal subjects, the relative figures obtained in cases of controlled diet being: normal 0.869 grammes, constipated 0.681 grammes. In these cases the quantities of cellulose-containing food given daily amounted only to 190 grammes of boiled potatoes and 100 grammes of biscuit.

The only objection which could possibly he raised against the results of these experiments is that the small quantity of residual nutriment hi the constipated feces was due, not to the excessive absorption, by the bowel, but to increased decomposition brought about by the action of the bacteria in the bowel. This hypothesis assumes, however, that in the intestines of the constipated the bacteria develop a much greater activity than they do in normal intestines, inasmuch as Strasburger has shown that, in cases of constipation, the total number of bacteria undergoes a great reduction. But in any ease the hypothesis falls to the ground when the behaviour of the decomposition- and fermentation-products in the urine and feces is critically examined. It is true that in the literature of the subject there occur several assertions to the effect that where feces remain in the body for an undue

* Strasburger, Zeitschrift fur klinische Medizin, 1902. 46, p. 413.

** Lohrisch, Deutsch. Archiv fur klin. Medizin 1904. 79, p. 383.

*

Digitized by tjOOQle
-54-

time tlie separation of indican is increased, hut all these assertions refer to urine and leave out of account the feces, which nevertheless are the chief consideration. They can therefore only prove, at the most, that an increased resorption of indican has occured, which is quite natural in view of the prolonged lodgment in the bowel of the constipated feces, and of its high degree of concentration. As regards the theoretically more important sulphuric ether, the statements vary so much, that it may bo regarded as very doubtful whether any increased formation of this substance does take place.

Much more important, however, is the ascertained fact that, in contrast to most other stools, freshly evacuated constipated feces do not show any sign of increased decomposition. In cases of simple constipation the feces have the consistency and form of bullets, they are nearly inodorous, neutral, or almost in reaction, and show neither fermentation nor decomposition when placed in an incubator. This explains the fact that chronically constipated subjects, (provided they are not affected by secondary symptoms of irritation or inflammation of the bowel,) that is to say, patients suffering from atonic constipation especially, are not troubled with excessive flatulence or other disturbances traceable, perhaps, to abnormally active processes of decomposition. On the contrary, such patients generally enjoy an undisturbed feeling of bodily comfort, apart from sluggish defecation and the general symptoms of neurasthenia accessory thereto.

If a too thorough exhaustion of- the nutriment w^ere the primary cause of the constipation, the trouble would be easily curable, one should say, by artificially interrupting the digestive process. But a more careful consideration shows that this is bv no means so easy as it seems. For it is known that many constipated subjects can take, without effect, cathartics in doses which would cause violent purging in normal subjects. But 1 propose, hv this report, to leave artificial remedies out of the question altogether, and to consider only dietetic methods. It has always been the practice, in constipation, to prescribe a diet containing an abnormal proportion of indigestible matter, such as salad, fruit, nuts etc., obviously with the intention of rendering the indigestion more difficult. The experiments of Yoit and his school have shown that food which is rich in cellulose is comparatively badly exhausted in a healthy intestine because the cell-membranes, which are difficult of digestion, protect the grains of starch and albuminous substances enclosed within these membranes from the action of the gastric juices and pass them on to the bacteria of decomposition which split them ill) into products such as volatile fatty acids, gases etc. which irritate the bowel, resulting in moderate, soft and more frequent stools. But it is common in constipated subjects that the feces remain hard and irregular, notwithstanding such a diet. This is due to the fact, already alluded to, that the constipated intestine also digests cellulose much more readily than does the healthy bowel. For. whereas normal feces regularly reveal to the naked eye particles of green vegetables and even cf potato, such particles do not occur in constipated feces. It is not yet known in what way the constipated intestine dissolves cellulose;

Digitized by CjOOQle
-55-

that this is due to the action of the intestinal bacteria alone is improbable, because such bacteria are much less plentiful in the constipated than in the normal intestine. But we need not pursue this question here.

In many cases, therefore, a diet merely rich in indigestible constituents is not enough; apart from the fact that not all patients are able to support it. The physician's aim should be to add to the diet certain absolutely insoluble ingredients. Among these is lignified cellulose, (fragments of cork, wood shavings etc.) and even sand. All these have been tried, but without much effect, which is not surprising, seeing that though they may make the feces more voluminous they cannot make them softer or richer in moisture, and yet these are necessary conditions for improved evacuation.

But there is a substance which fulfils both these conditions of increased volume and moisture of the feces, and which has non-irritating, to wit Agar-agar, so well known in bacteriology. Agar-agar, (Gelatina Japonica, Tientjan, Thao) is prepared from sea-algae, chiefly Gelidium corneum found in the Far East, and consists chiefly of Gelose (parara-bin) which possesses in a high degree the faculty of absorbing moisture.

Our investigations show it to contain 0.6 p. c. of cellulose. In the saturated state it yields up the absorbed water with great difficulty, even when it is in a state of decomposition, which it resists for a long time. It is well known that bacteria do not liquefy Agar-agar cultures.*

Numerous experiments made by me on the behaviour of Agar-agar in the digestive canal have yielded the following result: When Agar-agar is administered in its commercial form, i. e. in the familiar straws about 18 inches long, (the saucer- and square-shapes are less suitable,) cut into small fragments or scales, it swells up in the mouth and still more so in the stomach, emerging unchanged in the feces which, owing to its presence, acquire a larger proportion of water, arc softened, and are usually evacuated, more quickly. Even in large doses Agar-agar, when administered in this way does not irritate the digestive organs,— I have given as much as 2S grammes of dry Agar-agar a day. Only when given as a line powder have I occasionally observed spasms and diarrhoea to supervene, but I am inclined to consider these symptoms as the eifeet of the accelerated and increased expansion.

Taken on the whole, my expectations, based upon these experiments of the action of Agar-agar (in the scaleform,) in cases of constipation have been fully realized. Even in the cases of acute constipation the saturated Agar-agar passes through the digestive caual unchanged, and, if it has been 'given in a sufficiently large dose, it softens the feces and increases their volume. In certain conditions it may even,— being in the nature of undigestible ballast,—promote the digestion and # the absorption of i.he residual parts of the food, especially those containing cellulose.

But spontaneous motions do not always result from simple admini-

* Saturated Agar-agar can only be liquefied bv inoculation with fecal bacteria or decomposition-germs after it has been diluted with pancreatin. I propose to refer elsewhere to this theoretically interesting fact.

Digitized by CjOOQle
stration of Agar-agar, oven although the character of the feces may undergo a change. The reason of this is that Agar-agar docs not at the same time stimulate the membrane of the bowels, as is done by the decomposition-products which are generated normally in the large intestine. In eases of chronic constipation these decomposition-products are either absent altogether, or are geuorated in insufficient quantity, and Agar-agar cannot alter this fact. Here again it is clearly shown that the mechanical action causing the accumulation of the feces in the colon descendcns and the rectum must be supported by chemical action in order to induce peristalsis, and that this chemical action is particularly essential when the membrane of the bowels, owing to chronic constipation, has ceased to ho easily stimulated. Jn order to supply a substitute for this absent chemical irritant action I decided, after many experiments, to add to the Agar-agar a few percents of aqueous fluid extract of cascare sngrada. The llclfenberg Chemical Works have discovered and patented a process by which the eascara is so intimately combined with the dry Agar-agar that it imparts no waste whatever to latter, and that, for the most part, it does not separate from the Agar-agar until the latter has reached the intestine. The eascara is not intended to act as a cathartic (the quantity added is much too small for this,*) hut tc replace the absent stimulating action of the natural decomposition-products in the intestine, and thus to enable the practitioner to reduce to the smallest possible volume the daily dose of Agar-agar.

.1 am able to shite that F have obtained excellent results with this improved caseara-agnr, which is brought into commerce under the name of “Rcgulin/ The reinedv which, as already stated, is well-tasting, is best given in daily doses varying from one teaspoonful to two tablespoonfuls, mixed in the morning With any breakfast food, and in the evening with mashed apples—or dry—a good-sized pinch washed down with i sip of water. As the remedy is not really a cathartic, but serves, ac the name indicates, to regulate the bowels, it must he taken daily without intermission. As may lie imagined its action is satisfactory in slight or moderate cases, both in the atonic and in the spastic form. In dillicult and longstanding cases other methods must be resorted to in addition to the Regulin-treatmcnt. The sum-total of mv experiments covers about 25 cases of constipation of various descriptions, and in about two-thirds of these the “Regul in-treatment” was remarkably, and often permanently successful. 1 need not go into the details of these eases .here, but ] think it advisable to state expressly that a regular and uninterrupted administration of the remedy is necessary, and that the maetitioncr should not he discouraged if no good result is obtained in the first (lavs of the treatment. In .such cases the dose should he systematically increased and, if necessary, it should he assisted during the first few days by a glycerine suppository or an enema. Owing to its pleasant taste, Regulin is particularly useful for administration to children and babies.

* The aqueous eascara extract irritates the intestinal membrane much less han does the alcoholic extract.

Digitized by CaOOQle
If we cast Lack our eye along the road which has led us to the recommendation of .Regulin as a remedy in constipation, the question arises whether there are no other substances, analogous in their action, that is to say of a soft or liquid consistency, passing unchanged through the intestinal canal without irritating it in any way, and thus rendering th* feces softer and more plentiful. I have searched everywhere for substances of this character, only to arrive at the conclusion that they are singularly few.

It is scarcely necessary to lay special stress upon the fact that the new therapeutic methods outlined in this medical paper do not abolish, and cannot replace physical remedies for the improvement of the circulation of the abdominal organs and the strengthening of the muscles of the abdomen and the intestines, nor especially the training of children to the necessity of regular motion of the bowels.

ATHLETICS FOR GIRLS.*

'	By GEORGE WITTICH,

Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Milwaukee, Wis.

If I am r^htly informed, and I have consulted good authorities, among them Euler, the word athletics is derived from the Greek, signifying contest, mainly that of list-fighting, or a combination of fistfighting and wrestling, and athlete was the name given to the men who prepared themselves for and partook in such contests. Euripedes said of the athletes, “Athletes know nothing of good morals and good manners; they are useless in practical life and are of no value to the fatherland. In youth they are idolized by the populace and are thereby spoiled and made arrogant and presumptuous; later in life they are useless like old clothes.” Solon, and Galenus, the Roman physician condemned the athletic movement in like manner.

In America the term “athletics” has a broader meaning, that is true, hut it includes nevertheless, the above named forms, and has only the contest as end in view. All preparation and training is directed toward only one end, namely, to develop persons well equipped by Nature along certain special lines for contests. Since only the best performers are recognized, those who have no change in competition are condemned to the bleachers. All around physical development and physical efficiency of all are therefore not the object of American athletics.

Popular or folk-gymnastics (Volk-turnen) is the term used in German physical education to indicate those forms of exercises which are used in American athletics. In German gymnastics they are, however, applied to meet educational end*, and for that reason are graded accordingly. I will, therefore, use either the term “folk-gymnastics” or “natural activities” when speaking of these forms in my discussion.

The time has returned once more to arouse the advocates of a

* Read at the 19. Convention of the Am. Physical Ed. Assn. Montreal, Canada, February 22. 1912.

Digitized by

Google
rational and practical physical education for girls to take a firm stand against the harm being done by those who are clearly incompetent. We are bound to take this step net oniy for the welfare of the girls, but .also for the sake of our self-esteem and the truth and science to which we are pledged, so that we may continue as competent disciples among the educators of this country.

I am prompted to issue this appeal by the fact that in recent years I have noticed that the progress of true physical education of the adolescent girl is endangered by the efforts of men who have not only not been trained along this line,-but who also lack experience. A group of women who are equally incompetent support their efforts. In the course of several years I have collected a number of their arguments, which, with your kind permission, I will enumerate, then' discuss and finally present my arguments in favor of natural activities as an mdisperisible-tpart of an all-embracing system of physical education for girls.

The points which the opponents of a rational physical education of girls wish eliminated and the reasons for this are:

I.	Jumping and vaulting which are said to endanger the organs of the pelvis.

II.	Hurling and throwing exercises are alleged to injure the shoulder-joint and the abdominal region, and are furthermore not characteristic activities of girls.

III.	Sprinting a distance of more than 50 yards, an activity said to be objectionable for high school girls.

IY. Elementary exercises in hanging and supporting positions decried as detrimental to heart and lungs and as developing the muscles of the shoulder-girdle and of the arms to an unnecessary degree.

V. Compelling 25% of the girls enrolled in gymnastics of a high school to participate in a physical test composed of a 100 yard dash, two throws of the 4 lb. burl-ball, two broad jumps from standing position, and another 85 yard dash over -four low hurdles, the hurdles 20 inches high and made by utilizing jumping standards and bamboo sticks, a series stamped as a criminal offense. And yet 3V> hours, long intervals of rest being given, were set aside for the performance of the four units.

I shall discuss these points in the order given.

I.	Do jumping and vaulting endanger the organs of the pelvis of the adolescent girl?

The organs involved are the uterus, the Fallopiau tubes and the ovaries. In both the adolescent girl and the adult woman, they are located between the bladder, the rectum and the obturator internus muscles, and are to a certain degree held in place by ligaments. In addition they are protected and supported by the pubes and the muscles of the abdominal wall. The levator ani and other perineal muscles further keep these organs in place, forming what is called the floor of the pelvis or perineum.

This brief sketch should suffice to show how farsighted Mother Nature is, and bow well she cares for the safety of these very ird-
—5‘J—

portant organs. Under natural conditions all the organs of the human body possess the degree of strength and power of resistance necessary for natural and reasonable requirements. But we know that human beings, civilized and otherwise, very often oppose her good intentions. An in-active life, and unhygienic dressing for instance, are apt to weaken the tone of the muscles and their power of resistance.

Exercises of speed, mainly running in the form of games, and exercises of endurance, competitive fast running, combined with progressively applied pimping and elementary exercises on apparatus will in the course of the prc-adolescent period never fail to establish such a healthy tone and strength of the supporting tissues in question, that in later life no form of gymnastic exercise, properly taught, can injure the sexual organs or their attachments.

After careful and reasonable practice of the various forms of jumping, these exercises are, if anything, highly advantageous to the abdominal and pelvic muscles, because they are in a way a mild form of abdominal exercises, owing to the effort which these muscles and their antagonists must exercise in assisting the iliacns and psoas, and in maintaining the position of the trunk during the flight of the body.

In the deep bending of the knees upon alighting, when combined with forward bending of the trunk, the uterus in particular is crowded forward and downward somewhat, but the greater part of the momentum is received by the bladder and abdominal walls. It is, therefore, the duty of the instructor to "advise the girls to attend to the evacuation of the bladder and bowels before entering upon class exercises.

Besides the strengthening influence of these exercises on the muscles of the legs and hack, they mildly accelerate the functions of heart and lungs, especially if preceded by a running start.

The straddle vault over the buck belongs to the category of jumps and consequently is not only as harmless but as beneficial as the other forms previously discussed. The straddling of the legs sideward, whilo the bodv is passing over the apparatus, is caused mainly by the abductors and does not effect the pelvis in the least, owing to the free and easy movement of the head of the femur in the cotyloid cavity.

During my long period of teaching girls* and ladies* classes, aggregating four to five hundred individuals annually, I observed year after year that those who had attended the classes for several years, in particular those who had started before the years of development, jumped 42 to 50 inches in height, 8 to 10 feet forward, and vaulted over the buck adjusted to a height of to. 4V2 feet and were distinctly benefited therebv, which was clearly evidenced by their healthy appearance.

The jcv with which these girls would report to me any gain in the various forms of jumping is intelligible only to those who comprehend the spirit which such work generates. Most of these girls are now healthy, strong and happy wives, and mothers of healthy children. They are women who can perform their own housework and mothers who are able to nurse and carry about their children.

Conclusions:	1. All forms of jumping and vaulting are natural

activities and if correctly developed and judiciously applied will

Digitized by CjOOQle
-60-

etrengthen the muscle? of the legs, pelvis and lower part of the trunk of boys and girls alike.

2.	The organs of the female pelvis are out of danger o\ying to their protected location and the numerous attachments; they can furthermore only be benefitted by the careful application of the above exercises.

3.	Jumping and vaulting develop essential qualities of character, such as courage, resoluteness, judgment, determination, etc., and will arouse in no small degree the desire of overcoming obstacles and gaining definite ends.

4.	The elimination of these forms of exercises or their reduction to a minimum in the education of the girl would mean to restrict her physical education to a purely 'hygienic and corrective factor.

II. May hurling, throwing, putting and striking not be considered Natural activities of the girls, and can they result in injuries of the shoulder-joint and rupture in the abdominal regions if properly taught?

Characteristic activities change with the civilization of a people,, but natural activities, those that are in accord with the anatomical structure of human beings, are always in place.

In ancient Sparta it was found necessary to have the girls practice such natural activities as running, jumping, throwing the spear, hurling the discus and even wrestling, for the pui-po.se of rearing healthy women and mothers. History proves that this was a practical method, since the Spartans were second to no other race physically. In thi3 case the natural activities had become characteristic ones. rJlie same can be said of the training of the Germanic women who fought side by side with their male relatives against Marius and his legions. That the natural activities of throwing and hurling were customary exercises of the Germanic women centuries ago is illustrated in the recorded myths of the combat between Brnnhilde and Siegfried.

Natural activities, such as striking in the form of handling the axe, lifting heavy burdens, climbing, etc., became customary with the women of our frontiers during the last three centuries when they helped to lay the foundation of our great West.

But the conceited and silly yet not at all natural carriage of the body in walking, ihe general attitude, the indecent and unosthetic social dancing, the unhygienic dressing, the tight lacing, gigantic crazy-shaped hats are common with many of the girls of the present day. These unnatural activities have really evolved modern girls with distinct characteristics in walking, general carriage of body and movements of the arms. The influence of fashion, the ignorance and indifferent attitude toward the principles underlying the maintenance of the health of the school child are some of the most detrimental draw-backs of our modern civilization in America. If our school girls had been forced to devote themselves more to natural activities, such as running, jumping, vaulting, throwing, swimming, skating, swinging by the hands, etc., such silly unesthetic and unhygienic fashions and customs could not have become Ihe rage, because the girls would have found them

Digitized by o.ooQle
-61-

too unnatural and cumbersome. Is this condition to continue? I hope not! Why, we actually lack this day the true conception of a normal physical woman! If wo wish to see the live Greek type of woman we are forced to visit Japan, where the women are said to be made to practice strenuous physical exercises one of which is the reputed Jin Jitsu with excellent results.

I insist emphatically that the activities in question are altogether in accord with the physical and physiological requirements of both the girls* and hoys’ adolescence and should he taken up in the curriculum of their physical education for the welfare of the nation. The shorter -clavicle, which to some degree hampers the throwing movement of the guTs arm is no more a ground for eliminating throwing and similar forms from her program of exercises than to consider running an unnatural, uncharacteristic and unfeminine exercise on account of the -comparative shortness of the log of the woman.

I must, however, admit that the above forms of exercise may injure the shoulder-joint and the abdominal region of high school .girls, if their whole physical training has consisted only of folk-dancing and similar fads. But girls whose physical education included a careful and progressively applied series of exercises designed to lead up to the above named forms, such as circling of anus with or without the wand, dumbbell and club, throwing the small and the large ball, or the light and heavy bean-bag, will always he henefitted by these exercises and will always derive much enjoyment from them.

The formation of the female shoulder-joint in no way differs from that of the boy beyond the very slight difference in Lhe length of the clavicle Identical muscles move the female and the male for-arm nnd upper-arm. The only difference is that school girls usually do not .get as much practice in these activities as do the boys, and consequently do not co-ordinate as well as the latter. But that is the fault of social life and education.

Permit me again to refer to my girls’ and ladies’ classes. Every -one of the members improved her ability to throw and hurl with a fair degree of force and accuracy, in the course of time, and derived much pleasure and practical value from the games and exercises in which these activities occured*. Those who took particular interest in them practiced in and out of gymnasium time, whenever the* opportunity presented itself and became quife proficient in throwing and catching. The same can he said of the students of our Normal college of Gymnastics while I was its director. In the course of my teaching at the Yale University Summer School, T met several women-students from the South who threw an indoor baseball with considerable force and accurac}' Give the girls opportunities and they will show whether or not throwing and hurling can become characteristic activities.

Throwing, hurhng and striking with stick or racket, right and left are conducive to attaining elasticity and strength of the auxiliary muscles of respiration; they also benefit the muscles of the arms and shoulder-girdle in like manner and round the chest and shoulders. No other form cf exercise will improve the contour of the shoulders like the above.

Digitized by CaOOQle
—62—

Ambidexterity can be acquired easily and pleasantly and in an interesting manner in a large number of throwing and catching games with the bean-bag, the small rubber-ball aud the baseball, as also in competitive throwing and hurling both in the gymnasium and in the yard.

To discuss the practical value of a strong and yet supple and free shoulder-joint is superfluous. We have the deplorable awkwardness and weakness of the female arm before our eyes constantly, and you are cognizant of how essential it is for players to be able to throw and catch right and left handed in most of the games with the large hollow ball.

The tension which these activities require of the abdominal walls is both of a passive and an active nature, and, therefore, beneficial beyond dispute. It is not greater than that called for by reaching out for a high thrown basket, tennis or indoor baseball.

And what does this slight tension amount to compared with that caused by hanging bv the bands with or without swinging, where gravity becomes an additional factor!

Conclusions:	1.	Throwing,	hurling	and	striking are natural ac-

tivities of the human race, and are of great physiological and practical value for both boys and girls, and should for these reasons he embodied in the education of the girl.

2.	Physiologically their value consists in strengthening the shoulder-joint, the muscles of the arms, the shoulder-girdle and the auxiliary muscles of respiration.

3.	They are practical insofar as they aid in developing judgment of eye and control of arms.

4.	Besides this most of the forms of these exercises are both interesting and enjoyable.

III.	What logical objections can he raised to the 100 yard Sprint of adolescent school girls?

We all recognize the wholesome influence on the heart, lungs and the metabolism of the adolescent hoy and girl, caused by ordinary running; the only question remaining to he settled is. therefore, how far and how often can the average girl safely sprint under proper conditions with benefit to herself?

Dr. Schmidt recommends the 100 yard sprint in the contests of school girls who are taking the prescribed course in physical education. He furthermore states that 100 yards is the distance whore the greatest speed can be developed, because the muscles of the legs can be exerted to their utmost working capacity without much assistance from heart and lungs, although, as a matter of course, the latter are also working under high pressure in all sprints.

The muscular action of the body during fast running is in brief as follows:	Nearly	all the voluntary muscles of the body participate

in fast running* those of the legs carry the body forward: those,of the arms maintain its equilibrium, and those of the torso fix the same in such a manner that the latter serves as a working basis , or fulcrum for the legs and arms.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
The distribution of the mechanical effort among many groups of muscles, makes running a comparatively easy and very economical and natural activity. Heart and lungs are taxed to the-utmost in the sprint through rhythmical action of so many muscles; and this is, unless overdone, a natural requirement during the adolescent period to a healthy development. Professor Mosso states that a muscle which is occasionally of necessity taxed to the utmost, grows in every respect better than one which is never or seldom exercised to its maximum capacity, while muscles under oft repeated strain* hypertrophy. This of course also applies to' the heart. My experience enables me to corroborate this statement. Besides, the heart of the adolescent is as a rule not easily over-taxed, owing to the then still comparatively large aorta and arteries. Wherever I had the opportunity of examining the heart of an adolescent after a dash I always found the heartbeats normal after a few minutes of rest, though during a short period after a sprint the circulation is naturally greatly accelerated and respiration much intensified.

Considering all points we may safely say that sprinting, carefully practiced, is advantageous, both for the muscles of the lovrer extremities and those of the pelvis. It furthermore promotes metabolism and strengthens the heart ar.d lungs.

Practical experience and close observations have shown that healthy girls, under normal conditions, may safely run 85 to 100 yards twice during a test, with a rest of an hour between the runs, and thi3 with great benefit to themselves. On the other hand I also know positively that it would he criminal to compel high school boys, no matter how well they might be trained, to run the 220 yard low hurdles three times with only short periods of rest between the runs; yet it occured at an inter-scholastic meet last fall.

Now regarding the nervous system. The strain on it is indeed great during a sprint: but-it- is equally great on both sexes. According to Helmholz, 20 nervous impulses per second are required to produce continuous muscle action. Considering the large number of muscles that are active in a sprint; and considering, furthermore, that the intellectual centers arc also very active at the same time in the maintenance of that degree of energy that causes hoys and girls to try to win, we can easily understand that the expenditure of nervous energy during a sprint, is great. But all this continues for only 12 to 15 seconds and, moreover, only during tests. Compare, for example, this expenditure with that which is necessary in one half of a game of basket ball, especially if played as is customary in many places where you find the girls executing almost continuously, very vigorous muscle actions of various kinds, such ns running, jumping, dodging, etc., for 20 minutes at a time. This not only taxes the heart to the utmost but the nerve-tension during this long period is absolutely detrimental. Yet basket ball, with 20 minute halves, is considered by many so-called authorities, a good nanm in every respect, vThile the 100 yard dash for healthy girls is condemmed by them. It is difficult to understand the logic of such a discrimination.

I admit the existence of a nervous strain, but I insist that it is
—04—

of very short duration, that a short rest, especially with girls that are full of life and vigor and ioy. will suffice to restore the nervous equilibrium.

On the other hand we must furnish both sexes with opportunities occasionally 10 compete with others in exhibitions of their physical and mental powders. They must occasionally be required to do their utmost along both lines. It is only by means of such tests that they become acquainted with their own selves, their own powers and resources.

Conclusions:	1.	Sprinting, if practiced in moderation, is a natural

activity of the greatest practical, hygienic and physiological value and should for these reasons receive a place in the physical education of the adolescent girl.

2.	Competitive sprinting develops capacities of immense value in practical life, such as determination, will power, endurance and knowledge of their limited ions.

3.	Extended practical experience proves that adolescent girls under proper conditions may occasionally run 100 yards twice with benefit to themselves, if the interval between the runs is long enough for recuperation

IV.	Shall exercises in hanging and supporting positions be admitted into the plan of physical education of the girl?

The opponents of these exercises demanding their reduction to a minimum recruit themselves from-the ranks of men who have not had the proper training and who consequently fail to discriminate between moderation am! over-exertion on Ihe various pieces of apparatus. In particular do they oppose the so-called feats of strength which all sane teachers of gymnastics ‘condemn. They know little of the primary forms that can easily he adjusted to any condition. Women wTho have taken np teaching gymnastics at a rather advanced period of life, or who for other reasons are incapable of executing such elementary exercises and who in consequence feel instinctively that they cannot satisfy the demands of the adolescent along this line belong in the same ranks. Their arguments can easily be enumerated.

1.	That exercises on apparatus are unnatural; it is supposed to be unnatural to support the body on the arms.

2.	That these exercises produce over-developed muscles of the shoulder-girdle and unnecessary strong arms.

3.	That their influence on the action of the heart and lungs is detrimental

4.	That they are uninteresting.

Many able and efficient men and women have repeatedly, here in America, proved the folly and unreasonableness of these arguments. Let me quote several* J)r. Enehusk says, "There is very great reason why our girls should he educated up to the ability to do heavy work, because they have but poorly developed skeletons, narrow shoulders and short ribs. Tegular forceful muscular traction increases the size and strengthens the surfaces for the attachments of the muscles. No other form of exercise can accomplish this in the same degree.”

Miss "Mary E. _M!on in speaking of this work said. "Thus have

Digitized by CjOOQle
—65—

many fallacies, concerning what women can do and what they cannot do, been exploded and we hope the time is near at hand when well women will be the criterion for judging ability instead of sick or incompetent ones.”

, Dr. Sargent says, ‘''Learning to climb a ladder, descend a rope or swing from a bar are simply lessons in the art of handling the weight of one’s body by the arms, which every healthy girl and boy should be able to do.”

The principal types of exercises on apparatus are also natural activities, only of a different character than those executed mainly by the legs: The two year old child will instinctively climb on the chair or any other reachable elevation, or hang on the .arm of the father with its little legs entwined around the leg of the parent. Older boys and girls likewise will climb trees from sheer instinct whenever the opportunity presents itself: it is only at a later period when the laws of society and etiquette demand a more ladylike behavior of the adolescent girl that she will desist from such “improper pranks.” You have no doubt frequently noticed the joy with which hoys and girls exercise on the giant ^stride, swings, rings, see-saw ladders and poles of the playground. And why? Because climbing and hanging are natural activities and are in accord with the make-up of the human being. The natural co-ordiiiation of our arms and legs which arc in evidence from infancy on, have undoubtedly been transmitted to ns by our ancestors, and the present shape of the upper part of the body, the chest in particular, was to a considerable degree developed by exercises in climbing.

The influence of exercises in hanging upon the development of the thorax has been so definitely demonstrated that it would be a waste of paper and time to discuss that point here.

It is true that respiration is somewhat disturbed in hanging on account of the tension of certain muscles attached to the ribs and fixing the thorax in the position assumed in inspiration for a few moments. But what harm does that do? None at all. The pupils are required to hang only a few moments at a time and their respiration always deepens after exercises in hanging and supporting.

Exercises in hanging have, furthermore, a corrective influence on the skeleton from the effect of gravity and are for that reason particularly valuable for the school child.

In the correct support of the body with extended arms the contraction of the middle portion of the trapezius draws the shoulder-blades toward the spinal column, and that of the lattissimus dorsi draws the shoulders downward.

The extensors of the arms and likewise the muscles of the shoulder-girdle are greatly benefitted by judiciously applied exercises in supporting.

No other phase of physical education has such a fundamental influence on nenro-Tuuscula^ co-ordination of the whole body as have properly conducted exercises on apparatus, particularly the various forms of vaulting. The manifold and well designed forms of our apparatus, the often fixed condition of the arms in exercising, their various angles relative to the axes of the body; the arms acting like levers with more

Digitized by CjOOQle


or less advantage, together with the resting of the body—weight either on hands and feet or wholly on the former, thereby decreasing or increasing the muscular traction; the space of time passing between the movements or between the repetitions of the same exercise, the direction of the movements of the body or its parts, with regard to the position of the fix^d arms, are powerful means in bringing about the above named result.

The term “gymnastics” is often mis-interpreted in America. I cite the case of an article published in the February issue of the Physical Education ‘Review, in which the writer referred to ''‘gymnastics” as “purely formal work with or without fixed apparatus.” The term “gymnastics” is of Greek origin and means the exercise of the body in a nude condition; it was also the term applied to the physical training of the ancient Greeks collectively, as we Germans use it to this day. The “Gvmnasion” was the place for exercising and “gymnast” was the title of the teacher. “Gymnastics” is the term used this day when speaking of the entire system of German physical education; and therefore, embraces “folks-gymnastics” (field and track work), all “mo* tion games,” and exercises of a more formal nature, such as “free exercises in standing, walking, running and in dancing, as well as exercises on apparatus.”

In the same place the statement was made that gymnastics, in the one-sided sense of course, is a bore and that students will get out of it whenever they can. I believe that this is true, but only in those places where the work is conducted hv men and women who do not know much about it and wrho got a smattering of it here and there. My experience has been that competent teachers ahvays attain good results in gymnastics. In some of the high schools of Milwaukee where the instruction in gymnastics is as yet an elective study% 50 to GO % of the students enter voluntarily into this work and I have been told that the percentage is even larger in mosl of the high, schools of Chicago. And gymnastics has proved a drawing card in the evening schools of Philadelphia and Cincinnati.

Conclusions:	The principle types of exercises on apparatus should

be embodied in the schedule for the physical education of the girls for the following reasons:

1.	They are natural activities of far-reaching practical and physiological value.

2.	Exercises in hanging will promote the development of the skeleton, especially the portion above the hips, better than any other form.

3.	Many of the forms of exercises in hanging and supporting designed for children and adolescent girls are exercises of quickness and consequently enhance respiration and circulation.

4.	A high degree of neuro-muscular control and dexterity of the whole body can only be acquired by the use of the principal piece of apparatus.

5 Most of our apparatus make possible, pleasing and enjoyable exercises, the execution of which will always create a cheerful disposition and a desire for exercising.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-67-

V.	Is it expecting to much of 25% of the girls of a high school enrolled in gymnastics to participate in a test consisting of a 100 yard dash, two throws of the 4 lb. hurl-ball, two broad-jumps from standing and another dash of 85 yards, using 4 twenty inch hurdles?

I shall dispose of this point in a-very short manner. School field days should be public examinations of the physical ability of as large a number of pupils as can be employed in groups of the most natural and practical forms of exercises, in the presence of the parents and adult friends. 'Phis association of adults of the different social classes in large masses is apt to create a generous public spirit in the course of time. If the place selected for such festivals is partly wooded, the remaining of the contestants and their-relatives for all day should be encouraged, and the whole affair should be as much a picnic as an athletic meet. 'Wherever physical education, in the true sense of the word, is a part of the school curriculum of a city no extra training nor extra physical examination are necessary for such a field day, because the forms of competitive exercises selected for such an event are, in this ease, nothing more than tests in regular routine work. Girls who have taken part of the regular routine work in gymnastics for several years will think no more of a test in several such forms of the prescribed work than of a regular lesson. Permit me to compare a regular lesson with the above named test: A lesson 35 to 40 minutes in duration usually consists of a run of two or three minutes or vigorous dancing of five minutes, free exercises with or without hand appliances for ten minutes, exercises on apparatus or folk gymnastics including racing or lively running or hall, games for 15 minutes.

The mechanical effort, necessary for the 100 yard dash is less than that required for- a run of two or three minutes duration. The effort required in the two jumps and tlie two throws of the hurl-hall cannot be compared with that which is necessary in these two event? when used regularlv in a lesson, because in the latter case the ball is thrown at least 8 cr 10 times and the jump is executed also at least the same number of times. And what has been said of the comparison between the effort necessary for the dash, and that of the endurance run stands also in comparison between the 85 yard dash and 15 minutes of work on apparatus, in folk-gymnastics or in a lively running game. When we add to these facts the important point that a lesson lasts 35 to 40 minutes and that the time alloted for a field day test of the above type is usually several hours, anyone can clearly see that those who oppose such requirements for a field day for girls do not know what they are talking about. It is something new in America to employ such large numbers and must pass through the process of initiation, that is all.

In conclusion I shall discuss the argument that a physical education which includes the forms of exercises discussed above will develop masculine girls.

You will, I hope, agree with, me that our ideal of womanhood is the healthy, strong, open-minded, rich-blooded and normally shaped wife, who :s fitted ar.d also willing to enter into the battle of life side by side with her husband, tlie honest and courageous mother of hardy
-68-

chifdren, the happy and happiness-creating- comrade of the man. Ctm such womanhood develop iu our modern cities without an effective and well regulated system of physical education? You all know that it cannot, and I say: Our girls must, under present conditions, run* dance and play regularly in alternation with other school work, if they are to remain healthy in mind and body, and they must be taught to jump, climb, throw, swim, skate and practice on apparatus as do their comrades, the boys; only then will they become self-reliant, strong and agile enough to meet the requirements of adult life. Will the girl thereby become a masculine woman? Are these activities not also natural and becoming tc her? Are they not wholesome physiologically and morally for her as well as for the hoy? Has she not the same kind of bones, muscles, nerves, etc., as have the hoys? Is her gray brain substance different from that of the boy? Hoes she never need strength, health and endurance to fulfill her duties on Earth as well as her brother? Have you ever seen such examples of masculine girls in those schools where these forms of gymnastics are practiced? I, for myself, have not and I have taught in such schools over 25 years, but I have always found the girls to become robust, hearty and joyful in these places Facts count.

Oan running, climbing, jumping, throwing, swimming, skating and playing, if rightly conducted and proportioned, rob a girl of that which constitutes true womanhood? If a girl, owing to such training walks forth with a free, springy, yet firm gait and graceful bearing, is she for that reason less feminine? The body of a woman is truely beautiful only when a certain degree of healthy tautness or muscle-tone is combined with symmetric physical and intellectual development. Correct walking must he taught in this present age; esthetic and folk-dancing alone will not do it. Ho -net alarm yourselves, the sister will always walk, run and jump differently from her brother despite this similarity in the education of both, sexes, owing in part to proper adaptation of exercises to her needs and in part to her inborn femininity and inexplicable laws. She will always execute these activities in a feminine manner, unless the training was crude and overdone, but then it was neither scientific nor educational,

The main question in this case is: How to apply these forms of exercises and not whether they are permissible: They are all natural activities of both sexes.

—Dental Hygiene; Its Real Significance. Until very recently the necessity of caring for the mouth and teeth of children has not been a matter of public interest. An important part of medical inspection in schools has been neglected* Medical school1 inspection is the most important work carried on by departments of health; it is one of the most important functions of the state.

By the practice of dental hygiene the general public health can be greatly improved. In' the fight against the great white scourge, tuberculosis, it is a factor of the first importance.

Dental hygiene is the practical application of dental science to the in-

Digitized by v^ooQle
-69-

dividual, the home and the school. A realization of its importance is needed. Everybody should know that the general health of the individual and of the community depends largely upon the condition of the mouth and teeth; that the highest efficiency tand happiness in life cannot be gained when the gateway to the body is neglected.

The care of the teeth is an important factor in the care of .the child. The mental and physical efficiency of school children: can be greatly aided by the proper care of the mouth and teeth. This is fully attested by experiments in Germany which*cover a wide field. There dental infirmaries connected with the schools have been in operation for a sufficient length of time to demonstrate:

First—That the time expended in putting the teeth in order was far less than the time formerly lost from toothache and disability caused by diseased teeth.

Second—That the cost of keeping the teeth in order was more than compensated for by better health and a consequent reduction in medical expenses.

Third—That the child became physically stronger, secured a higher average in his studies, was easier to control and was apparently happier.

A clean mouth and clean teeth furnish one of the best protections against disease. A child forced to swallow the discharges from an unclean mouth, and having nutrition interfered with by his inability to chew his food, is unable to resist disease.

The condition of the teeth is a tell-tale as to diet. They are the guards which stand at the gateway to the body, ready to divide the food into manageable portions, to bring peace of mind and healthful bodily activity. No greater kill-joy exists than dyspepsia, no more vicious, a menace to life and efficiency, obtains than disordered condition of the process of nutrition.

Cancer of the stomach is notoriously a disease of gross feeders. Eighty percent of the cancers of the stomach arise from bolted food. If an ounce of prevention is ever worth a pound of cure it_is keeping the teeth in good condition.

This problem of dental hygiene is not altogether one of benevolence. It is in large measure a problem of economics. Health is needed for great industrial production. Every case of disease involves an immediate economic loss to the community in which such events occur. There is coming a great change in the practice of medicine, surgery and dentistry and a much greater proportion of the attention of these professions is hereafter to be devoted to prevention rather than cure.

Dental hygiene is an important part of a broad, a universal movement for better care of the public health through a more complete knowledge of the conditions that promote health. To nio group of men and women is given a larger opportunity to render real human service than falls to the dentist and dental nurse. Through the practice of their knowledge and their service life can be made more effective, more useful and fuller. It can be lengthened ini years; it can be given more enjoyment and pleasures; and some of the obstacles which prevent clean living can be levelled.— William R. Woodbury, M. D., Boston.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-to-

BASE BALL

Baseball is one of our great national games. It is so well known (especially to boys) that it needs no description. It cannot, however, be played on all playgrounds, on account of the great space needed. Modifications of it, however, may be played on all playgrounds, be they ever so small or irregular in size. These modifications are here grouped under the head of Playground ball.

* The object of baseball is for the player at the home plate to strike a ball that has been pitched or thrown, and then to run to a base before the batted ball reaches there, or 'before he has been touched by the ball in the hands of an opposing player. In the old game of “Townball” which was the forerunner of modern baseball, a batter could also be put out by being “thrown out,” that is, the ball was thrown between the runner and the base. He was also out if he was hit by a thrown ball before he reached his base, (the thrown ball being soft). These various modes of putting a batter out may be used to good advantage in adapting the modern game of baseball1 to local conditions.

PLAYGROUND BALL. VARIATIONS BASED UPON THE NUMBER OF PLAYERS.

In its simplest form baseball may be played by three players, a pitcher, a batter and a catcher (who stands behind the batter). The first base is placed some distance beyond the pitcher. The batter must reach this base and return to the home plate every time he hits the ball. If not, or if the ball he struck is caught on a fly, or if he is “thrown out,” etc., he is out. The catcher then takes his place, the pitcher is made catcher and the former batter is made pitcher.

If there are four players two of them* are on the “ins”; i. e. at bat, and two of the “outs”; i. e., out in the field. It now is not necessary for the batter to reach first base and return home in one stretch. If he reached first base he may wait until the second batter on the “ins” strikes the ball before attempting to reach the home base.

If there are five players one of them is made first baseman. If there are six players the additional1 player is made first fielder, etc. In this manner the game develops. Every time one of the batters is put out all the players on the “outs” advance to the next higher place, while the player that was put out takes the place of the last fielder. .

VARIATIONS BASED ON INSUFFICIENT SPACE.

In playgrounds one often has enough players to play a regular game, but adequate space is lacking. This condition is met in several ways. First, there is the regular game played with a large soft ball (a so-called indoor baseball, from 14 to 17 inches in circumference), and with a short light bat. The bases instead of being 90 feet are now only 30 feet apart.

If the space is too small to allow this modification the next step is* to use a large hollow ball (basketball) and to bat this with the closed hand, with two hands or with the forearm. The bases may now be placed 20 feet apart. In this form baseball may be played in winter as well as during the rest of the year.

The shape of the ground at one’s disposal may make it advisable to lay out the field in a long diamond instead of a square, or to use only ore base (long base) a long distance from the home plate.

What we wish to impress on our readers is that the regular game of
-71-

baseball may be modified to meet the conditions in any playground. It is a game every girl and boy should know and play.

Summer Session of the Normal College, N. A. 6. U., Indianapolis.

The third summer session to be conducted by the Normal College will be held at Indianapolis, Ind., and will last four weeks, from July 8 to August 3, 1912. The work will be conducted in the gymnasium and class rooms of the Normal College at 415 East Michigan Street, excepting the practice in field and track work which will take place on the athletic field of Butler College.

The purpose of the summer session is to meet the needs of persons partly or entirely engaged in the various branches of physical education. On account of the great number of attendants last year, most of whom have already signified their intention of returning, the course has been divided into first and second year’s subjects, and offers opportunities to the following:

1.	The Physical director who, although familiar with the greater part of the work offered, wishes to keep abreast with the trend of physical education of to-day. To him the new tendency of German educational gymnastics will be of interest. He will also find lectures on subjects containing new phases of work, a profitable review; he will have opportunities of learning new folk dances and dance compositions, and receive new ideas and incentive for his future work through his association with other directors.

2.	Playground Directors and Play Leaders. To men and women connected with playgrounds, playground work, administration, equipment, and activities, folk dances, personal and civic hygiene, and educational gymnastics, particularly the apparatus work of the last named subject which contains a number of pleasing “stunts” that appeal to boys and girls and are performable on playground apparatus, will be of interest.

3.	Coaches will be offered valuable suggestions on the technique of field and track events and on the method of training for them. Fencing and wrestling may also be of future service.

4.	School Teachers are given opportunities to master the physical training exercises of various school grades which will prepare them to more competently meet the requirements of modern education. From the educational gymnastics of the Elementary school or of the High school, and from the plays and games, and folk dances they can select abundant appropriate material. There are, furthermore, a number of mental subjeets offered which will prepare them for a more thorough understanding of gymnastics if they desiret o take this up as a vocation.

The following subjects will be offered :

FIRST YEAR COURSE.

Educational Gymnastics, Fencing, Esthetic Dancing, Folk Dancing, Wrestling, Playground Work, Field and Track Work, Anatomy, Personal and Gymnasium Hygiene^

SECOND YEAR COURSE.

Educational Gymnartics, Fencing, Esthetic Dancing, Folk Dancing, Wrestling, Playground Work, Field and Track Work, Applied Anatomy; Civic Hygiene, Anthropometry, Physical Diagnosis.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
Price, <1.00 per Year. Foreign $1.25.

Wlacon Bln.

MT Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, V9 is Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

—The nineteenth convention of the American Physical Education Association held at Montreal, Canada, on February 22, 23 and 24 was not attended by many persons from the states.

On Thursday morning the 22nd, the Public School Section and the Therapeutic Section held separate sessions, afterwards on account of the small attendance these were only general meetings. The papers presented were mostly very interesting, some calling out spirited discussions. We hope to be able to print some that will be of special value to our readers.

The exhibitions of gymnastic work by classes of the different schools were of the highest order with regard to quality and exactness, It was interesting to note the different gymnastic costumes of the participants. Most of the girls wore close-fitting short trousers, long stockings, a very short skirt, a blouse and suspenders over the shoulders. It was a very becoming and at the same time practical suit, preferable to many of the bloomer suits seen with us.

The winter sports on snow and ice, naturally, were of the most interesting character.

—One hears so much of the good effects of athletic sports upon character that the following article from* the Journal of the American Medical Association which deals with the effects of strenuous athletics upon health will be of interest. It is well to remember that the young men selected for our naval (and military) academy must be physically perfect.

Effects of Strenuous Athletics in the Navy. An interesting pronouncement concerning the effects of competitive athletics, as carried on in schools and colleges for the training of young men, is contained in the report of the Surgeon-General of the Navy for 1911. With an unparalleled opportunity for observing, during their school course and in their subsequent careers, large classes of young men in the navy, the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery has formed the opinion that competitive arid spectacular athletics are undesirable. The prolonged rigorous course of physical exercise necessary to excel in physical sports is believed to be dangerous in its after-effects. As applied to the navy, it is said that under the conditions of service at sea it becomes impossible to continue vigorous exercise, the individual falls prey to degenerative changes, tends to become obese and to lose physical stamina and fails in the end to render as many years of efficient service as does his less athletic but more symmetrically developed classmate. Undoubtedly, similar conditions prevail in civil life among former athletes who cannot or do not keep up in considerable measure their former habits of exercise. The

Entered at the Milwaukee Po«t Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-73-

physicaj records of 625 former athletes of the Naval Academy classes from 1891 to 1911 were examined to determine the bearing of early over-training on physical efficiency in after-life. Of these, nine have died and twelve have retired. Of the twenty-one fatalities, six have been due to tuberculosis, eight to mental and nervous diseases, two indirectly to alcoholism, and one death each to acute dilatation of the heart and valvular disease of the heart, both directly attributed to track and crew racing. One was due to an injury received in playing foot ball. Of the remaining 604 athletes in the service, 198 have disabilities which have been noticed in the official records and to which athletics stand in a possible or probable casual relation. These have not resulted in total disability, but in impaired service. Of these 198 in whom subnormal conditions are present, iri forty-eight the conditions are referable to the heart or -blood vessels, such as arteriosclerosis, organic heart disease, heart murmurs, irregular and rapid heart action and hypertrophied and dilated heart. In sixteen, the joints or motor apparatus are involved; in eleven, the kidneys; seventeen are either frankly tuberculosis or have had symptoms indicative of tuberculosis; in sixteen there is neurasthenia associated with gastric complications; there were twenty-five cases of appendicitis and fifteen- of hernia, the latter two troubles appearing to be associated particularly with a foot ball record. The opinion is also expressed that long distance crew or foot racing is productive of serious harm. The opinion in regard to this form of exercise is shared by school authorities in civil life best qualified to judge. The figures quoted constitute a severe arraignment of strenuous competitive athletics as carried on in our schools and universities, and corroborate the observation said to be made that prize fighters, as a rule, succumb early, frequently to tuberculosis or to other degenerative diseases, though in the latter instance dissipation m<ay have a determining influence. It is not, of course, to be understood that the Surgeon-General or the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery believes that athletics in the navy or anywhere else should be abandoned -entirely; it is, in their view', the strenuous competitive form which is deleterious. The indulgence in moderate athletics is always to be encouraged.

If, as seems to be the case, selected men suffer because of unwise participation in athletics, how much more must this be the case with our grammar and high school boys and girls; in fact with” anyone who is not fully developed, i. e. 20 to 23 years of age.

We wish again to state most positively that for the training of ef-iective citizens nothing, under our present conditions, is able to take the place of well-regulated gymnastics, directed by well-prepared teachers. And , we also wish to state agajn that gymnastic training includes all kinds of track and field wor, and also all forms of games.

If you are on the Gloomy Line,

Get a transfer.

If you’re inclined to fret and pine,

Get a transfer.

Get off the track of Doubt and Gloom,

Get on the Sunshine Train—there’s room—

Get a transfer.	“Hygiene	and	the	Child/'

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—74—

NOMENCLATURE OF FREE EXERCISES.

By Emil Rath, Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind.

(Continued.)

LEG EXERCISES.

In the fundamental position.

On toes—rise.	(Heels—raise,) Lower.

The ankles are thoroughly extended, the heels separating. The fundamental position is otherwise retained. Sink gently without jarring.

On toes—rock. Halt.

Heels are raised and lowered in one count.

Raise lfcft and right toes alternately (alternate toe raising)—begin-Halt.

The toes of one foot are lowered while those of the other are being raised. Count one for the left, two for the right foot, etc.

Feet—close. Open.

The toes are raised slightly and lowered while the inner margins of the feet are firmly brought together. Return to the correct angle in open-ing.

Knees half deep—bend. Straighten.

The movement is preceded .by heel raising. In the obtained position (squat stand) the heels are raised, knees directed outward over the toes and’ flexed to a 450 angle, trunk and head erect. Extend knees thoroughly in returning to position.

Knees deep—bend. Straighten.

As the previous exercise excepting that the knees are flexed to their maximum with heels apart.

Raising of the bent leg.

Left knee forward—raise. Lower.

Hips and knee are flexed to a right angle, thigh horizontal, lower leg and foot vertical, toes pointed forcibly downward, trunk and head erects It may also be executed fore-upward.

Left foot backward—raise. Lower.

Knees are flexed to a right angle, the thigh moving slightly backward; toes well pointed.

Raising the extended leg.

Left leg forward—raise. Lower.

The extended leg is raised forward to the horizontal, toes pointing head and trunk erect.

Left leg sideward—raise. Lower.

The extended leg is raised sideward, toes pointing, the movement being confined and limited to the action possible in the hip joint.	'

Left leg backward—raise. Lower.

The straight leg is raised backward, with ankle extended (hyper-ex-tension of the hip-joint.) The leg may also be raised in the oblique direction outward and inward.

Swinging the leg.

Swinging differs from raising in the degree of speed involved in the movement. An upward and downward movement is usually performed in one swing (one count). The leg may, however, pause in a position as in

Digitized by
-75-

leg raising. The directions and the terminating positions (if used) resemble the foregoing exercises of raising the extended legs.

Example:	Left	leg	forward and downward—swing.

The stepping phases.

Foot placing.

Left foot forward—place. Replace.

The straight leg is raised forward, foot about ankle high, and then the forcibly extended toes lightly touch the floor; leg slightly rotated outward; weight not transferred; trunk and head erect. Close heels firmly in replacing foot. Foot placing is executed sideward, backward, forward, outward, backward outward, forward inward, and backward inward. There is no outward rotation in sideward and backward placing.

Foot placing mav be combined with bending the stationary knee.

Example: Place left foot sideward, bending stationary (or opposite) knee—place. Replace.

The leg is raised as in foot placing forward, but to the side. The opposite knee is bent to about a right angle without raising its heel. Chest active and head erect.

Striding.

Stride left forward—stride. Foot—replace.

It begins with slight leg raising as in foot placing and then the foot is placed for a distance of twice its length full upon the floor, the weighfbe-ing equally distributed on both feet, toes slightly turned outward, trunk and head erect. Striding is performed in the same directions as foot placing.

Stepping.

Step left forward—step. Foot—replace.

Stepping al'so begins as foot placing, i. e., the extended leg is raised forward, toes pointing ankle high, and then the foot is placed for a distance of twice its length firmly upon the floor, at the same time transferring the weight completely upon the stepping leg; the stationary leg is thoroughly extended with heel raised and toes lightly touching the floor. It is executed in the directions named under foot placing.

Lunging.

Lunge left forward, outward—lunge. Foot replace.

The straight leg is raised forward outward with the toes pointing almost knee high, the weight is transferred in the direction indicated and the foot placed for a distance of about three times its length full upon the floor to receive it. The knee bends as the foot strikes the floor and projects from four to six inches over the toes; the stationary foot remains flat upon the floor, toes slightly turned outward, and the trunk and head erect. During the return movement the foot is again raised, as in the beginning, before closing heels. This is also true of the following fallouts and layouts. Lunging is also executed sideward and forward.

Fallout.

Fallout left sideward—fall out. Foot—replace.

The execution of the leg movement and the distance of the step is the san.e as in the lunge. In addition the trunk is lowered sideward (always in the direction named for the fallout) until it is in a straight line with the stationary leg. There must be no rotating of the trunk. It is given sideward, forward outward, and forward.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-76—

Layout. (Reverse fallout.)

Layout left backward—lay out. Foot—replace.

The straight leg is raised backward, toes pointing about knee high. The foot is placed for a distance of about three times its length firmly upon the floor and the stationary knee bent half-deep. The trunk is lowered forward (opposite direction to leg movement) till it and rear leg are in one straight line. The relative position of the head and chest is not changed. Toes are turned outward. It is also performed sideward and backward outward with the trunk always lowered to the opposite side.

FREE EXERCISES OF THE SECOND ORDER.

Support lying.

Frontways:	Bend knees deep, placing hands on floor between knees

(hands slightly turned inward)—I. Straighten legs backward to support lving frontways—2. Return—3 and 4.

In the support lying position the body weight is supported by the hands and the toes which are kept together. The body forms a straight line from the shoulders to the heels. Prevent increased bending in the lumbar spine.

Sideways:	Support lying frontways in two counts—1 and 2. Quarter

turn left (right) to support lying sideways—3. ’ Return—4 to 6.

On 3 the body weight is supported by the left arm and the corresponding foot; the feet are together and extended; the body rigid and in a slight line from shoulders t6 feet. The free arm is placed at the side of the body. Prevent lateral flexion in the lumbar spine.

Rearways:	Support lying frontways in two counts—1 and 2. Half

turn left (or right) to support lying rearways—3* Return—4 to 6.

On 3, the body weight is supported by hands and heels, toes forcibly extended, feet together. The body is in a straight line from shoulders to toes, chest raised.

Kneeling.

Place left foot backward and kneel left—kneel. Return.

The foot is placed backward with bending of right knee and the left knee bent and placed on floor a short distance from the right foot. The trunk and the thigh of the kneeling leg are in a straight line. The forward knee is; bent to about a right angle and the rear foot is placed on toes. Return with thorough knee straightening,

Stride left forward—1. Kneel right—2. Return—3 and 4.

Striding is executed as described previously and in kneeling the reverse position of the foregoing is obtained. The feet do not move when kneeling.

Sitting.

Raise left leg forward and bend right knee, hands on floor—1. Straighten leg forward to sitting position—2. Return—3 and 4.

The hips are bent to a right angle, legs straight, feet together and forcibly extended, chest raised, head erect and arms at side of body.

The position is also obtained as follows: Fall to a seat with legs crossed—one. Straighten legs forward—two. Return—three and four. This may be done with or without the assistance of the hands.

Lying.

Frontways:	Support	lying	frontways	in	two counts—one and two.

Lower body to lying frontways—three. Return—four to six.

Digitized by Google
—77—

The body lies prone on the floor, trunk and legs straight, legs and feet together, ankles extended and arms at side. Head and chest are slightly raised.

Rearways:	Raise	left leg forward and bend right knee, placing hands

on floor—one. Straighten legs forward to sitting position—two. Lower trunk backward to lying rearways—three. Return—four to six.

Body straight with back full on floor; legs straight, feet together and ankles forcibly extended; straight arms at side of body. The lying position rearways may also be obtained from support lying rearways and from falling a seat with crossed legs.

FREE EXERCISES OF THE THIRD ORDER.

Companion Exercises. Exercises executed with the assistance of one or more gymnasts.

Arch stand.

Formation:	Flank rank of two, half distance.

No. i:	Stride	sideward	and place hands rear of head—one. Bend

upper trunk backward and allow body to fall backward—two.

No. 2:	Step	forward and raise arms forward—one. Support No. I

at shoulder blades (later elbows)—two.

Nos. 1 and 2:	Return movements—three and four.

The upper trunk is forcibly bent with chest well raised and abdominal muscles active. The pelvis must not be moved forward. The position of the head does not change.

This exercise may be preceded by simpler and followed by more difficult positions of the arms. The exercises may also be performed with heels locked.

Horizontal support lying position (wheelbarrow.)

Formation:	Open flank couple.

No. 1:	Support	lying frontways in two counts with straddling legs

—one and two.

No. 2:	Stride	forward	and raise arms sideward—one. Bend knees

and grasp feet of No. 1—two. Raise No. 1—three.

Nos. 1 and 2:	Return movements—four to six.

The body is about horizontal and in a straight line from shoulders to heels. Arching of the lumbar spine must be prevented.

Handstand.

Formation:	Front couples.

No. 1: Bend right knee and place left foot backward, hands on floor—one. Leg swing to hand stand—two.

No. 2:	Face	partner—one. Grasp legs and hold—two.

Easiest in ranks of three, two assisting.

Nos. 1 and 2:	Return movements—three and four.

A vigorous swing of the straight legs with a forcible push from the bent leg brings the body into the handstand position. The exercises may be simplified by having No. 2 assist No. 1 in obtaining the position. The feet are together, toes pointing, knees straight and the trunk slightly arched.

Lowering and raising trunk with placing one foot on neighbor's knee.

Formation:	Flank rank couples face to face.

No. 1:	Place	foot on partner’s knee with an arm position—one.

Lower trunk—two. Raise trunk—three, Etc.

Digitized by CaOOQle
—78—

No. 2:	Lunge forward and grasp ankle of No. i—one. Hold No. I

steadily during the lowering and raising of the trunk—two, three, etc.

Return movement:	In	position—stand.

The stationary leg is kept straight and the trunk held the same as in the fundamental position. Trunk lowering with assistance is executed backward and sideward. It may also be given forward.

THE THEORY, TERMINOLOGY, AND TECHNIQUE OF GYMNASTIC DANCING.

By Emil Rath, Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind.

(Continued.)

DANCE-STEP-SEQUENCES.

Step-sequences consist of combinations of tHe previously discussed step-elements and also of the suggested modifications by means of the free exercises. They have become very popular both in physical training and in social dancing, more so in the former, because they possess inherent combining possibilities that give them special value for gymnastic purposes. Mr. Alfred Maul, for many years director of the Normal School for teachers of physical training in Karlsruhe, has thoroughly discussed the greater number of the dancing-steps contained in this paper in his chapter on “Gang-und Huepfarten” in his “Turnunterricht in Maedchenschulen.” The writer is indebted to him for some of the ideas contained in the division of the dancing material and for the greater number of the terms used, inasmuch as they are, with slight modifications, literal translations.

According to the elements entering into the composition of a step-sequence we may divide them into three classes:

1.	Sequences	of	stepping;

2.	Sequences	of	springing;

3.	Sequences	of	stepping and	springing combined;

which in turn will increase in difficulty as two or more elements are progressively joined.

STEP-PI NG-SEQUENOES.

THE STEP AND TOUCH-STEP.

the FORWARD STEP-/AND-TOUCH. Command: Step left (right) forward—one. Touch right (left) forward (place right foot forward) — two. On one a step forward with complete transfer of weight is taken in the manner described under stepping and on two the right foot is placed forward, toes pointing and gently touching the floor. The foot is immedi-atelv raised to begin the exercise right. The sequence may be modified by sliding or stamping with the leading foot and also by touching with the heel. It is executed in polka and march time, but may also be performed in mazurka time if the touching movement is repeated, thus stepping in the direction indicated and then 'touching twice in the same or in different directions ('two touch-steps; heel and toe touch-step). Other exercises are:

1.	The forward step and touch-step sideward;

2.	The side-step and touch-step forward;

3.	The side-step and touch-step sideward;

Digitized by Google
—79 —

4-	The backward step and touch-step sideward;

5.	The backward step and touch-step forward.

THE DIP-STEP.

THE FORWARD dip-STEP. Command: Step left (right) forward—one. Bend left (right) knee and raise right leg forward-—two. Step left forward with completely transferring the weight on one, and on two bend the left knee and raise the right leg forward thoroughly extended with toes pointing about ankle high. The toes may touch the floor if desired. The body has a tendency to stoop forward or bend backward. This step is performed in polka and march time; also in time if a pause of one count is observed after the step, or after the leg raising. This latter rhythm simplifies the execution and may be used for a similar purpose in other steps.

THE side-dip-step resembles the above excepting that the step is taken to the side instead of forward.

the CROSS-DIP-STEP. (Peasant courtesy.) Command: Step left sideward—one. Place right foot obliquely backward inward and bend knees —two. After the side-step with complete transfer of weight on one, the right foot is placed on its toes crosswise behind the left so that with the bending the knee of the right leg will be directly above the heel of the left foot. The knees are not quite bent half deep. It is executed in fast waltz time, two measures for the step, and later in polka and two-step time.

MODIFICATIONS OF THE CLOSING- AND FOLLOW-STEP.

THE CLOSING- AND TOUCH-STEP FORWARD OR SIDEWARD. The closing-or the follow-step is executed in the direction signified on one and two and the touch-step on three. This order may, however, be reversed. Instead of the touch-step such exercises as foot, knee or leg raising may precede Dr follow the step. These exercises are performed in rather slow mazurka time. The closing- and the follow-step may also be preceded by a double touch-step (forward and backward for instance), or a heel and toe touch-step, in which the named foot is placed forward on the heel on one, the ankle being thoroughly flexed, and the opposite knee slightly bent, and backward on the toes with the ankle extended and the opposite knee straightened on two. They may also be preceded by two of the other exercises suggested or by a touch-step and one of these exercises.

THE CLOSING-STEP WITH TRUNK-LOWERING FORWARD IN Y TIME. The closing-step.is performed in the usual manner and on two, i. e. with the closing of heel to heel, the trunk is lowered forward. It is raised on three. This step requires a slow, mazurka rhythm and may be varied by taking the closing-step sideward; also by bending trunk sideward.

THE CLOSING-STEP WITH BENDING KNEES IN % TIME. The execution is similar to the previous step with the knee-bending (half deep) substituted for the trunk-lowering.

the balance step. (Waltz balance step.) Command: Step left obliquely forward outward-—one.	Follow right and raise heels—two.

Lower heels—three. This step consists of the follow step with high heelraising on two, leading to a balance-stand on toes, from which it derives its name, and gentle heel-lowering on three. The instep of the following foot is placed to the heel of the stepping foot in all exercises excepting those moving backward, when the heel closes to the instep of the stepping foot. The balance-step left forward outward may be' followed by the same right,

Digitized by C.ooQle
-80-

or, as is frequently the case, by balance-step right backward outward. It is performed forward, backward, sideward, in the oblique directions, and on diagonal lines. The last three directions have been found preferable. Modifications are obtained by gliding (glide-balance-step) or stamping (stamp-balance-step) with the stepping foot, and by sliding (draw-^balance-step) of the following foot. Mazurka and slow waltz time gradually progressing to the moderate and fast waltz rhythm are generally used for its performance. . The schottische time, however, may also be used. In this rhythm the follow-step is taken on one and two, and the heel-raising and lcwering on three and four, with the last three movements (2-3-4) gently flowing into each other, so that the heel-raising begins slightly before the third count.

the balance-touch-step. (Mazurka-balance-step.) Command: Step If ft sideward—one.	Touch {place) right foot forward and raise heels—

two. Lower heels—three. This is a variation of the balance-step. After stepping on one the fully extended leg is moved forward touching the floor lightly with the pointing toes which are slightly turned outward, and raising the heel of the stepping foot. There is no transference of weight on two, the heel of the stepping foot being raised without moving the body~ On three the heel is gently lowered. The modifications and rhythmical progressions are the same as those of the previous step.

the glide. The glide may be executed continuously upon command from one foot to the other, or a definite number of times (four or three) left and right alternately in the direction indicated. It consists of a sliding movement of the leading foot and of the one following (instep placed to heel as in the follow-step) performed on the ball of the foot with slight flexion of the joints with the beginning, and extension (slight rising on toes) with the ending of the step. It requires the time consumed for an ordinary step. Four glides left are performed in two measures of two-step (6-8) or polka (2-4) time, while three glides left require one measure of mazurka time. In passing from three (or four) glides left to the same exercise right, the last glide is left unfinished; i. e. the instep is not placed to the heel, the feet remaining apart as in a stride stand, so as to give ample time to begin the exercise right. If, however, three or four glides left lead to another step beginning left as frequently occurs in step-combinations, the last glide must be finished. It is performed forward, sideward, backward, and on diagonal lines.

the two-step. When two of the previously described glides are executed with the second glide unfinished, the exercise is termed two-step^ It is performed in two-step (6-8), also polka or march time and in the same directions as the glide. Gentle flexion and extension of ankle and knee joint should constantly be observed.

the three-step. 'Command: Step left forward—one. Follow with right {instep to heel)—two.	Step left in place—three.	The step in

place on three should be done with knee-raising; the first two counts constitute the follow-step. It is performed in mazurka or slow waltz time and in all directions. The three-step may also be executed in polka or two-step time. This variation is obtained by doing the follow-step on the first beat of the measure; i. e. on “one-and,” the step in place following on two, after which there is a slight pause. The three-step is a preparatory step
—81—

lor the change-step. It is modified by stamping (stamp-three-step) and gliding (glide-three-step) of the stepping foot and by sliding (draw-three-step) of the foot following.

THE CHANGE-STEP. Command: Step left forward—step. Follow with right—follow. Step left forward—step. It is usually counted “one-and-two” or “one-two-three.” Its execution resembles the three-step in polka time with the step in place being replaced by a step forward. Its adaptation to mazurka or waltz time is very simple but not so frequently used. The modifications applied are the same as those described under the three-step. It is executed in the three main directions, and on diagonal lines. In the •sideward and backward change-step the stepping foot, raised slightly above the floor, described a segment of a circle in the direction signified and outward from* the stationary foot.

THE ROCKING-STEP. Command: Step left sideward—one. Step right forward inward, rai\se right heel and left foot—two. Lower and replace left foot—three'. This may be termed “rocking-step in place” if the movement is sideward to and fro. All steps executed in this way may be termed ■“in place.” The weight is transferred on one and on two in the direction given, but with the second movement the right (forward) knee is slightly flexed as the heel is raised, simultaneously the left (backward) foot is raised behind the right ankle, toes pointing, and the slightly flexed knee is turned -outward. This constitutes the forward rocking movement. On three the left foot is replaced with complete transference of weight and the right foot, ankle extended, slightly raised above the floor. This constitutes the backward rocking movement. The right foot is now prepared to start the exercise right. The rocking-step will acquire a more graceful appearance if the -stepping foot describes a half circle outward when beginning the step (on one.) It is performed in mazurka and slow waltz time and may be modified by sliding the stepping foot crosswise over the floor (draw-rocking-step.) Sideward (i«n place,) forward, and backward are the chief directions for its performance, the last two beginning with an oblique step forward outward and backward outward respectively. It is adaptable to two-step and polka time precisely as the three-step; i. e. the first two steps are taken « rapidly so as to be completed on the first beat of the measure, and the third step is taken on the second beat (count “one-and-two.”)

sequences of stepping with turns. While there are many pleasing exercises derived by performing some step an equal number of times (two, four, or eight times) and then adding a quarter or half turn without changing the character of the step, thereby stepping upon the lines of a square, cross, or some other figure, other steps acquire a distinctly new character resulting in new step-sequences when turns are made a part of them.

THE CROSS-STEP-TURN.

THE CROSS-STEP-HALF-TURN left. Command: Step left sideward— 4*ne. Front-cross-step right—two. Half turn left on. toes, closing heels,— three. The cross-step should be correctly gauged so that heels will come together in- the fundamental position after the turn. To do this the toes should be placed in line. The turn should be made on the toes with the body weight equally distributed. It is performed in mazurka time.

Digitized by Tooele
~88—

the cross-step-turn (whole) is more difficult. Command:	Face

left and step left forward—one.	Front-cross-step right—two.	Three-

quarter turn left—three; thus completing a whole turn. The step forward taken with facing left on one should not be quite as large as the ordinary step. When cross-stepping right on two the right knee remains bent so that the toes of the right foot may be placed on a line running transversely through the middle of the foot, but -not too closely to it. The three-quarter turn left is then performed with rising high on the toes of both feet and then sinking with all the weight transferred to the right foot on three. The left foot, touching the floor lightly with the toes in the original forward direction, is held in preparation- for another exercise. These movements should gradually flow into each other so that the three-quarter turn begins a little before the third count. The execution progresses from mazurka and slow waltz time to polka and two-step time (one cross-step-tum to each measure.)

All steps so far described have been possible of bilateral performance, that is left and right alternately; this cross-step-tum is, however, only possible of unilateral execution; i. e. either left or right continuously, and must be combined with a step possible of bilateral execution to make it practical. This must be borne in mind when selecting unilateral steps for step combinations. The cross step turn may be altered, though, to a bilateral step of 4-4 time by replacing the left foot into the fundamental position on four, instead of holding it in preparation for another step to the left. By this change it may be executed left and right (bilaterally) alternately.

the three-step-turn. As in the cross-step-turn the name suggests the exercise.

the three-step-turn to the left. Command: Step left sideward —one.	One half turn left on left foot and step right sideward—two. One

half turn left on right foot and step left sideward—three. The turn is made on the ball of the foot; the pendant foot is slightly raised during the turn; the weight is completely transferred on the third count so that the right foot is in readiness for the same exercise to the right or for a new one. This step requires a measure of mazurka time which may change from slow to moderate rhythm. It is, however, simplified when performed as the three-step-turn with closing. This takes four counts, closing the right to the left foot being the last movement. Given in this manner it progresses from polka and march to gallop and* schotfisdhe time, the latter being rather difficult. A touch-step or leg-swing forward may be substituted for the closing-step. It is not advisable to use too many of this or the previous step in combinations because of the dizziness they cause. The three-step-turn is also executed forward.

the two-step-turn left. It consists of two two-steps beginning right (left when turning right) with a half turn left on the first, i. e. forward movement, and a half turn left on the second with the backward movement.

the change-step-turn left. This is similar to the foregoing with the change-step taking the place of the two-step. It may, however, also be given sideward.

(To be continued.)

Digitized by CjOOQle
-83-

OUTLINE OF A COURSE FOR CLASS LEADERS/

Translated by Carl O. Hierholzer, Philadelphia, Pa.

INTRODUCTION.

The delay in publishing the following outline of a course for class leaders is due to the fact that I waited on the results of the final examinations of the courses which were held in- the present year. It was also necessary to delay the publishing of the course on account of allowing women to participate in the instruction for leaders. This fact made necessary a different arrangement of the course.

The advisability of allowing women to participate in the course was left to the discretion, of those who direct such courses. At the same time it made the problem of conducting the courses considerably more difficult to the directors.

The original purpose of these courses was to prepare class leaders for the societies of the N. A. G. U., especially for the smaller societies, who, for financial reasons cannot afford to engage a regular teacher. It is, however, a step forward, rather than a step backward for the N. A. G. U. also to train women leaders.

The path followed by the Normal College of the N. A. G. U. can show us the way the courses for class leaders should be shaped and how they should be directed. The leaders course could thus be developed as a preparatory school to the Normal College, and could serve as a means of propaganda for the same; two things that should prove of no small value in the interests of the college as well as of the union.

We are of the opinion that

1.	The course shall be open not only to members of the N. A. G. U. but (just as in* the normal college) to non-members as well, and open to both men and women; and

2.	The administrative and facultative bases of the course shall be the same as in the Normal College. We then can ask that' those taking part shall in part pay for their tuition; members of the N. A. G. U. $5.00, non-members $10.00.

The reasons for these recommendations are:

1.	The expenditures on the part of the districts for these courses weaken their treasuries to such an extent, that they cannot meet their other obligations. Districts are therefore less prone to conduct further courses.

2.	Since, heretofore, participants have not been obliged to pay for their courses many have taken part just for spores sake and have increased the numbers unnecessarily.

3.	Why should those who do pot belong to the N. A. G. U. be trained without paying for their training.

4.	If it were legal to take non-members into the course we could thereby obtain funds through which the teaching staff could be enlarged, and far better results could thus be obtained.

5.	With a larger teaching staff the course for class leaders might be combined with a course in play.

* This outline was presented to the North American Gymnastic Union by Mr. Fritz Krimmel, New York, chairman of the committee on Leaders Courses.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-84-

6.	The instruction could then be given both in German and English, and the division of the classes could be the same as in the Normal College.

•7. The course could be lengthened to a two year’s course with a* view of awarding those who finish the second year a higher diploma, and, at any future time, allowing credits to them on entrance to the Normal College.

A. SUMMARY OF THE WORK FOR MEN.

I.	TACTICS.

(a)	Arranging and dressing the class in front and flank ranks.

(b)	Facings in place, {l/%, *4 and V2 turns.)

(c)	(Marching in place and from place in front and in flank ranks.

(d)	Angle, counter and circuit marching.

(e)	Formation of a line: by counting off, stepping forward, sideward or backward my twos, three, etc. Opening and closing ranks for class work m free exercises.

(f)	and Yz wheels combined with marching forward; forming in front, at the side and in the rear of the ranks of twos, threes, etc.

(g)	fC and D performed while running, also with arm and leg movements.

II.	FREE EXERCISES.

(a)	Starting positions: hands at the sides, on the hips or shoulders, arms bent for thrust and strike.

(b)	Swinging, straightening and striking the arms in the fundamental directions: forward and fore-upward, sideward and side-upward, and backward.

(c)	Foot placing, striding, straddle stand (or stride stand) lunge positions, placing one foot while bending the opposite knee.

(d)	Trunk bending: forward, sideward and backward; trunk turning; trunk turning combined with bending.

(e)	Simple combinations of b and c, b and d, c and d and a, b and e.

(f)	Instruction as to the combination possibilities, explanation as po the difference between 2 and 4 count movements; the counting in. 2-4 and

4-4 time and how and when these tempi are best used; at the same time instruction in progression in difficulty by execution- of the various parts of exercises in like, unlike and opposed directions.

III.	EXERCISES WITH HAND ANNARATUS.

(a)	'Dumbbells, (b) Wands, (c) Clubs.

A and b should be taught in combination with the free exercises.

The simplest swings witfi one and two clubs with instruction as to the possibilities in club swinging, and of combinations with leg and trunk movements.

IV.	WORK ON FIXED APPARATUS.

(a) Horizontal bar; (b) parallel bars; (c) horse; (d) buck; (e) ladders; (f) rings; (g) climbing poles or ropes.

A, b and c are to be considered the chief apparatus.

Explanation concerning stand, hang and support; front, side and rear-ways, bent and straight arm hang, bent and straight arm support, hang stand, leaning hang and leaning rest, should precede all exercises.

(a) Horizontal bar. Hip, and knee up-swings and circle-swings with ordinary; reverse and combined grasps; kips and uprises with easy combina-

Digitized by CjOOQie
-85-

tions; underswings with and without turns; the simplest strength exercises with instruction as to the possibilities of combining exercises of strength with swinging exercises.

Exercises on the low horizontal bar, such as kip from the stand, front vault, flank vault, rear vault, squat vault, straddle vault, underswing over the rope.

(b)	Parallel bars. From the cross stand, leg circles inward and outward, rear vault and straddling to seats and supports. From the side stands and side leaning support, front vault, rear vault, flank vault, squat vault,, straddle vault over one or both bars to a stand or to a support.

With a run; jump in to the middle of the bars to a cross rest with straight arms and swing forward and backward, then front vault, rear vault, flank vault and dismounts with leg swings with and without turns. (The above exercises are especially to be practiced on the low parallel bars.) Uprises at the end of the fore and back swings from the forearm support and the upper arm hang. Kips from the hang and the upper arm hang, rolling forward and backward to the seat, hang and support. Shoulder, upper arm* and hand stands, Handspring backward and sideward from these stands. Swinging in the bent arm supports, instruction as to the combination possibilities. Exercises of strength as on the horizontal bars.

(c)	Side horse. Vaults, squat vault, front vault, rear vault, flank vault with and without turns, wolf vault, pike vault, vaults with one hand, straddle vault, hand-springs with bent and straight arms. Leg swings and circles of one and both legs, combinations with these, like screw mount, rear mount and front mount, and dismounts such as rear, front, etc; also instruction as to the possibilities of combinations.

(d)	Lang horse. With a run, preparatory exercises for the rear, front, flank, squat and straddle vaults. Scissors with support on the croup, saddle and neck. Complete execution of the above exercises and including, also, handspring with bent arms and with straight arms.

(e)	Buck, side and long. Straddle vault, squat vault with turns in front of and behind the buck with instruction as to the possibilities of the apparatus such as vaults for height and distance and over a rope supported on the jump-stands placed in front of or behind the buck.

(f)	Ladders, (vertical1, horizontal and slanting) the simplest exercises in the stand, hang and support with reference to making use of the apparatus for exercises such as hip pull-up, and push-up to a support, knee~ hang, etc.

(g)	Rings, the simplest exercises in the hang, and as nest hang and inverted hang, turning over forward and backward, pulling up to a support from a quiet hang and the same while swinging; also instruction as to the possibilities of combination.

(h)	Climbing Poles and Ropes. Climbing up and down with and without using the legs. Speed climbing.

(i)	Combinations of apparatus. Buck and horse, buck and horizontal bar, the simplest exercises with instruction as to the combination possibilities.

Remarks:	Not more than one hour should be devoted to the appar-

atus under f, g, h and i. A half each* should suffice on reviewing them.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-86-

V.	FIELD SPORTS.

High, broad, far-high jumps, and hop step and jump from a run and from the stand. Point out the difference between jumping for form and for best performance. Instruction should be given in shot-put, hurl'-ball, throwing, pole vault, hurdling and in the starts for sprinting.

Practice well known games such as three deep, prisoner’s base, bat-ball, captain ball and basket ball. In case a play course is connected with a leaders’ course the number of games must be increased. To compensate for this, work on the apparatus may be proportionately reduced. The field sports and games are to be conducted so that they are not only instructive to the participants but that they at the same time furnish variety and recreation. For instance: instead of going from work on the horizontal bar to the parallel bar, the leader should place a game or a field sport between the two, nevertheless not losing sight of the fact that it is not the game, but the learning of it that is the main thing. Other games to be recommended are, indoor baseball, hurl ball, dodge ball, wander ball, rider ball, wrestling circle; also a number of simple games. The various forms of relay racing used as games are also to be taught.

VII. SONGS.

A number of marching songs both in the German and English language should be memorized by the end of the course. As such are to be recommended: “'Ein Ruf 1st Erklungen” “Frisch, Stark, Treu” “Stimmt An Mit Hellem Hohen Klang” “Hinaus In Die Feme” “Ich Hatt’ Einen Kam-eraden” “Star Spangled Banner” “Rally Round the Flag” “O Columbia the Gem of the Ocean.”

VIII. THE GYMNASTIC FESTIVAL RULES.

Since a knowledge of the rules covering all events of {gymnastic* meets is necessary for class leaders, the course leader shall be obliged to rxpfain these. This may be done by appointing a fixed lecture hour for the rame or by explaining the rules for each event as it is taken up In its turn.

B.	SUMMARY OF THE WORK FOR WOMEN.

If women take part in any course, they shall exercise with the men and their work shall be the same in tactics and free exercises, as outlined in the working plan for men. Exercises in marching, running and dancing shall be conducted separately from the work of the men. These thould, if possible, be conducted with musical accompaniment. Especial attention should be given to the various tempi and the possibility of combinations, such as the connection of a step in 2-4 time with one in 3-4 time, as cited by Jenny in his book on dancing. Several easy folk dances and gymnastic games suited to girls may be added. Where two or more teachers are available this division of the work will not be difficult. In case there is but one teacher, the work for women m*ay be taught while the men are working on their field sports, as these do not require the constant attention of the course leader. A prescribed list of dancing steps need not be included here. The choice of these will rest with the ability of the course leader and the ability of the pupils he has to work wit. It is suggested, however, that the course leader limit the work to the simpler rteps. Instruction and hints regarding the combination of simple steps into roundels and dances for exhibition purposes should be given. Balance boards and giant stride should be taught in place of the high horizontal bar, the parallel bar and the [ong horse.

Digitized by Google
-87-

In exercising on the apparatus (balance boards, giant stride, low parallels, side horse, low' horizontal bar, buck, etc.) little attention should be given to the learning of difficult combinations, but stress shouid be laid on exercises which strengthen the large abdominal muscles and the muscles of the back. Circling the legs while hanging and swinging, trunk circling in the hang stand on the rings should, among others, be included with the above. In exercising on the parallel bars especial caution should be observed, here support exercises should alternate with exercises in the seat; on the side horse, jumping and vaulting exercises are the best. The cautious teacher w ill know what choice of exercises to make.

(Concluded in later number.)

GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

EMANUEL HAUG, 463 West 159th St., New York City.

—Initial steps were taken in Berlin last month for the introduction of athletics on American lines into the leading German universities.

German university men hitherto have confined “sports” practically to sabre fighting. Serious comprehensive efforts will now be made to popularize field, track, and aquatic athletics by means of inter-collegiate competitions.

The movement has the cordial support of the Emperor and the Crown Prince, who often have attempted to persuade German students to dedicate to legitimate sports some of the time and energy traditionally concentrated on the bouts with the flowing bowl.

Representatives of fourteen universities, ten technical colleges, two veterinary schools, the Royal Agricultural College, and two mining academies attended the meeting. They agreed to exhaust all means at their command to arouse the enthusiasm of the German students for the new idea. It was the general opinion that various Governments which exercise control over the universities and colleges ought to finance to some degree student athletics.

The meeting resolved to organize at regular intervals intercollegiate competitions to be called “German University Olympias.” The first meeting will be held, it is planned, in Leipsic in 1913. Impetus to the new movement was given in a large measure by Dr. Rudolf Tornbo of Columbia University, who electrified German university men last year with a series of illustrated lectures depicting the glories of life on the river, on the baseball diamond, gridiron, and track in America.

WORLD’S RECORp SKI JUMP OF 163 FEET.

Oscar Gunderson of the North Star Ski Club of Chippewa Falls, Wis., established a new world’s record by making a standing jump of 163 feet at the annual tournament of the Gusta Bakken Ski Club at Modum, Norway, Feb. 18. The jump was given as an exhibition. The Gusta Bakken hill is the longest ski hill in Norway. The previous record, 147 feet, was held by Sigrud Hanson of Fergus Falls, Minn.

AMATEUR ATHLETIC FEDERATIONS.

The Narragansett Bay Athletic Federation was organized in January and held an Athletic Meet in Providence, R. I., March 16th. At present

Digitized by LiOOQle
-88-

only Y. M. C. A.s are members, but it is expected that educational institutions, turners, etc., will join later.

—The Wayne County (Michigan) Amateur Athletic Federation was organized in February with Detroit as the center. There are at present nine organizations in the Federation. In the spring a State Amateur Athletic Federation is to be organized composed of the educational institutions, turners, Y. M. C. A.s, etc. The Federation held an . athletic meet in March, open to athletes representing recognized amateur bodies in the state, such as the colleges, high schools, etc.

A NATIONAL CONTROLLING BODY FOR AMATEUR

ATHLETICS.

Henry F. Kallenberg, M. D.

The officials of the Amateur Athletic Union have repeatedly claimed that there could be only one national controlling body in athletics and that the Union was that body. A claim of such magnitude, carrying with it not only authority but great responsibility, must rest upon sufficient evidence. Let us therefore analyze briefly the claims of the Amateur Athletic Union and see whether or not that organization can assume the responsibility which necessarily should go with its claims.

First, as to size of membership. According to the last report of the Amateur Athletic Union that organization had a membership of 538 clubs and a total registration of 18,861 individual athletes. It should be noted that there are hundreds of high schools, secondary -schools, colleges, universities, turners, Y. M. C. As., settlements, churches and playgrounds throughout the country in no way affiliated with the Union. There are nineteen or twenty states without a single Amateur Athletic Union club. Furthermore it will be found that 90 per cent of the 538 clubs in the Amateur Athletic Union are located in less than fifteen cities. It would seem therefore from the standpoint of numbers and geographical distribution that the Amateur Athletic Union is not national in character.

The claim may be made that the affiliated bodies of the Amateur Athletic Union must be considered as members. Technically this is true, but practically the affiliations mean nothing so far as legislation and administration is concerned. The affiliated bodies merely desire to indicate by that relationship that they stand ready to co-operate with the Amateur Athletic Union or any other organization in the promotion of amateur athletics. It is not the intention of the affiliated members to subject themselves to the authority of the Union. The fact is the Amateur Athletic Union is not considered at all by its affiliated members* except when athletes from these bodies desire to enter meets sanctioned by the Acateur Athletic Union. For example, the colleges that are affiliated with the Amateur Athletic Union, run their own affairs independent of that body. The same is true of the North American Gymnastic Turnerbund.

Second, as to Property Interests. Very few of the 538 clubs in the Amateur Athletic Union have their own buildings, while the number of buildings and athletic fields owned or controlled by the many organizations not in any way connected with the Union, number many thousands.

Furthermore the life cycle of many athletic clubs is very brief. It

Digitized by CjOOQle
—89—

cannot but be plain therefore, from the standpoint of property holdings, that the Amateur Athletic Union is not national in character.

Third, as to the Scope of Work. We venture to state that the work of 90 per cent of the 538 clubs in the Amateur Athletic Union is limited to one line of activity, such as either athletics, fencing, boxing or wrestling. These clubs do not have the comprehensive and scientific scheme of physical education such as we find in the turner*, educational institutions, Y. M. C. As., and playgrounds which compose that large body of permanent organizations not identified with the Union. Observation indicates that the Amateur Athletic Union is not only not leading, but is not following as a body the advance movements in the field of Physical Education.

Fourth, as to standards of amateurism. Many organizations have higher standards than has the Amateur Athletic Union. For example, the ■educational institutions have not only the commonly accepted amateur standards, but have also the scholarship test of eligibility. Many colleges require 3, whole year’s attendance before the student may represent his institution. The turners require a certain pescentage of attendance upon regular gymnasium class work.

The athletic membership with its special privileges and professionalizing tendency is found in very few educational institutions, playgrounds, turners, Y. M. C: As., etc.

It should be clearly understood that we are not attempting to discredit the good work done by the Am-ateur Athletic Union, nor do we wish to be understood as Intimating that there is no field for the Amateur Athletic Union. On the contrary, there is the big field composed of athletic clubs which neither the educational institutions, turners, playgrounds, churches or Y. IM. C. As. are in a position to control, at least for the present, and which offers many and splendid opportunities for service. In every city, large or small, there are many groups of men and boys engaging in athletics, but without the direction of a recognized amateur body. Realizing that there were many such groups in Chicago, the Cook County Amateur Athletic Federation has undertaken a piece of social experimentation in athletics described in an article next month.

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

NORMAL COLLEGE, N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

With the closing of the first semester, a number of subjects were brought to a close, and others substituted. Among the new ones are Civic Hygiene, Pathological Physiology. Laboratory Physiology, History of the North American Gymnastic Union, Wrestling, also Gymnasium, Field and Track and Playground Equipment.

The senior class is receiving opportunities with the beginning of the new semester to teach the physical training work in the public schools of Indianapolis.

The squad of men gave an exhibition of horse vaulting at a meeting of the Y. M. C. A. and Indiana University. Further exhibition numbers were given by both the women’s and the men’s classes at the Sozialer Turnverein Gymnastic exhibition and at the Concert given by the Nix Memorial Association. The next dance of the Students’ Alliance will be given March 16.

At the close of the first semester a banquet was held at the German House attended by the 50 students and friends. This proved to be one of the most enjoyable occasions of the year. At the conclusion, speeches were made by Mr. Theo. Stempfel, president of the North American Gymnastic Union, Mr. Emil

Digitized by VaOOQle
-90-

Rath, Mr. Hugo Fischer, Mr. Win. Nicolai, Mr. Fred. E. Foertsch, Mr. Gilcher E. Neeb, president of the students’ Alliance, and other students. Later the party adjourned to the large lecture room where the remainder of the evening was happily passed in dancing.

At the regular mid-year election of officers of the Students’ Alliance the following otficers were elected : Mr. Gilcher E. Neeb, president; Miss Clara E. Scott, Vicepresident; Mr. Geo. Lipps, treasurer; Mr. Lawrence H. Molis, secre-tary ; Mr. Gustav Heinemanti, Turn wart. The personnel of the committees^ remains the same.	Geo.	F.	Miller.

BOOK REVIEW.

—“GAMES AND DANCES” by William A. Stecher, Director of Physical Education, Philadelphia Public Schools. 173 pages, 6 by 9 inches. Published by John Jos. McVey, 1229 Arch Street, Philadelphia. Price, doth, net $1.25; postpaid $1.40.

A glance at the book shows that it is the result of long experience with real playground conditions and needs. In twelve chapters Mr. Stecher has gathered games and dances suitable for the different age-groups found in schools, in playgrounds, in boys and girls clubs, in associations, etc. The games and dances for each age-group are separate. No attempt has been made to present as many games as possible. The selected gymnastic games,, the song-games and also the dances were chosen because they have proved their value in actual use. The music for each song-game and for each dance is printed with the description.

A chapter treats of “Quiet games and Problems” for warm days, or indoor work. Another chapter gives reliable information concerning field and track activities that may be performed in the average playground. Average records, age-standards2 tests that any normal boy or girl of a giverr age should pass are presented. In the final chapter are printed selections of mass exercises that are suitable for play-days or field-days.

The book is of value to parents as well as to teachers, and it is highly-recommended.

—The firm of B. G. Teubner in Leipzig, Germany, sends us threer books that should be in the hands of every teacher of gymnastics. They are “DER VORTUBNER” (the class-leader) ; “KEULENSCHWI NORN” (club-swinging) and “ZEHNMINUTEN-TURNEN” (ten minuter gymnastics) ; the three books being by Karl Moeller, Director of Physical Education in Altona, Germany.

“The Class-leader” has reached its fourth edition—mailing prive 6a cents. It is profusely illustrated and is the best book of its kind published. As a guide for the class-leader it ranks first among books for such uses, and as a text book for directors of courses for class-leaders it is invaluable.

“Club-swinging” has reached its third edition—mailing price $1.00-48 illustrations help to make the book more useful to teachers and to students. Mr. Moeller shows how the swinging of clubs may be made to occupy a prominent place in real body-training. The book is highly recommended.

“Ten Minute-Gymnastics” ran through its first edition in Tess than a year. This, second, edition has 85 illustrations in the text and also two charts with' S3 figures—mailing price 40 cents. This small booklet will

Digitized by CaOOQle
—91—

be a revelation to'those who imagine that little effective gymnastics can be performed in ten minutes. Its effect upon some of the hand-books of gymnastics now in use in this country will be most salutary. Like the other books it also is highly recommended.

—“ORTHOPAEDISCHES	SCHUL-TURNEN” (Orthopedic

School Gymnastics) by Schmidt and Schroeder. 80 pages 6 by $l/z inches and an insert of 24 pages with 48 photogravures. Published by B. G. Teubner, Leipzig. Mailing price $1.25.

When a man of the standing of Dr.-F. A. Schmidt combines with another of the caliber of Mr. Fr. Schroeder in order to prepare a book for the correction of the orthopedic defects found among school children one;i expectations run high. We can assure our readers that the present book with its wonderful illustrations will be certain to surpass their expectations. We know of no book like this, and recommend it most highly to all teachers who are at all interested in the physique of their pupils. The protogravures are masterpieces.

To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—“JAHRBUCH DER TURNKUNST” (Yearbook of the Art of Gymnastics) by Dr. Rudolf Gasch. 240 pages by 7% inches. Profusely illustrated. Published by Emil Stock, Leipzig. Mailing price 35 cents.

In this year-book for 1912 Dr. Gasch has again gathered innumerable facts relating to the growth and development of gymnastics in all parts of the world, but especially in that country, Germany, that has the largest organization devoted to body training in the world.. The German Gymnastic Union, has a membership of over one million with 50 per cept of its members participating regularly in its gymnastic work. The book should be in the hands of every teacher.

To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.

—“DEVELOPING INTO MANHOOD” by Dr. Winfield S. Hall. This is a little 40-page pamphlet designed for use, under adult leadership, with youths fifteen to eighteen years of age. It was written to meet the demand for an outline of the subject. The pamphlet is well-written and will be certain to help those teachers who are trying to make a boy understand himself at the most critical period of his life. The pamphlet is published by the “Association Press,” 124 East 28 )St., New York, and sells at $7.50 per hundred, carriage to be collected. A board edition sells at 25 cents each, postpaid.

— “Consumption, pneumonia, headache, pale faces, sleepy listless eyes—all tell the tale of starvation—lack of fresh air. You can live a longtime without food, quite a while without drink, and about three minutes without air. And yet you put more time attention to the food question than all else. You give pretty good heed to the water and milk supply, and never a thought of the air supply. Is that consistent with up-to-date living?”

Digitized by CjOOQle
-92-

Books on Physical Training and related Subjects.

Send your orders to “Mind and Body,” Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis

Add 10% for Postage.

SUBSCRIPTIONS to MIND AND BODY $l.oo per Annum (10 Copies). $1.25 to Foreign Countries.

Single Copies 15 Cents.

COMPLETE VOLUMES OF “MIND AND BODY” $i.oo; bound $1.75. (Postage paid.)

Issues No. i, 2, 9,' 24, 73, 149, 170, 181 and 191 are out of print.

Theory of Physical Training.

Bodily Exercises, The Mechanism of.—By Wilbur P. Bowen, M. S..	.75

Dancing, The Healthful Art of.—By Luther H. Gulick, M. D........ 1.50

Education by Plays and Games, by G. E. Johnson.................. 1.00

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Gymnastic Kinesiology. A Manual of the Mechanism of Gymnastic

Movements, by Wm. Skarstrom, M. D............................. 1.25

Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen....................................................... 1.00

Model Positions.—Ten Tablets, two feet square, showing in 32 illustrations the principal gymnastic positions both in their correct and

incorrect forms. (German.) By F. A. Schmidt, M. D........... 1.85

Muscles and How to Develop Them, by F. J. Harvey................	.50

Physical Education by Muscular Exercises, by Luther H. Gulick,

M. D.............................................................75

Physical Exercises.—A Short Synopsis of the German System of Gymnastics. By F. A. Schmidt, M.	D.........................25

Psychic Processes and Muscular Exercises, by Prof. Angelo Mosso. A

lecture .........................................................20

Training for Athletics, Health and Pleasure, Practical.—Bv Rud.

Faries, A. M., M. D........................................... 1.00

Tactics.

A. B. C. of Swedish Gymnastics, by H. Nissen.........................75

Book of Drills and Marches, by B. M. Wilson..........................30

Calisthenic Training and Musical Drills, by Geo. Cruden..............50

Drills, Fancy.—Illustrated, by Diagrams for Children, by Kellogg...	.30

Drills, Ideal.—By Morton.............................................30

Drills and Marches, by Rook..........................................2$

Drills and Marches, Successful.—By Gertrude Williams-Lurtdgren..	.50

Drills and Marches, by May Dickerman.................................30

Drill Regulations of the U. S. Army, Infantry........................75

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A, Stecher 2.50 Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen ...................................................   .	1.00

Hand-book of School Gymnastics, by Baron N. Posse....................$0

Musical Drills for Little Children, by A. Alexander..................25

Digitized by Google
-93-

Prize Drills and Dances, by M. W. Morton....................     .30

The Special Kinesiology of Educational Gymnastics. With 267 ill.

and analitical chart, by Baron N. Posse.....................3.00

Tactics, Gymnastic.—Part I: Tactics of the Individual, by E. H.

Arnold, M. D................................................ .35

Free Exercises, Wands, Dumbbells, Clubs, etc.

Calisthenics and Fancy Steps for the Gymnasium, Marching.—By

Gertrude Williams-Lundgren....................................5a

Club Exercises, Indian—and Exhibition Drills, by H. B. Camann.....73

Club Swinging, by William Schatz............................... 1.00

Club Swinging, Indian.—1, 2 and 3 Club Juggling, by Fr. E. Miller. 1.00

Dick’s Dumb-Bell and Indian Chib Exercises........................25

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50-Wand Drill, by R. Pertuch..........................................10

Apparatus Work.

Apparatus Work, Elementary.—of the German System of Gymnastics,

by E. H. Arnold, M. D.; arranged by Frances N. Boynton.....	.35

Apparatus Work, Graded.—By S. P. Middleton..................... 1.00

Code Book of Gymnastic Exercises, by L. Puritz....................60

Gymnastics. A Textbook of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Horizontal Bar, The.—By H. Butterworth.......................... 1.00

Games.

Book of Song Games and Ball Games, by Kate F. Bremner.......... 1.25

Children’s Old and New Singing Games, by Mari R. Hofer............50

Dances and Games, Folk.—By Caroline Crawford................... 1.50

Dances and Singing Games, Folk.—Illustrated; by Elizabeth Bur-

chenal..................................................    1.50

Games; Captainball, Dodgeball, Soccer, Football...............	.10

Games, Graded, and Rhythmic Exercises for Primary Schools.—By

Marion B. Newton..........................................  1.25

Games, Physical,—for the Youth. By A. Leibold.....................25

Games, The Teaching of Gymnastic.—By Prof. W. P. Bowen............75

Games, 200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic.—By Maria Grey............70

Games and Dances, Popular Folk.—Arranged by Mari R. Hofer.........75

Games for the Playgrounds, House, School' and Gymnasium, by Jessie

H. Bancroft .............................................. 1.50

Games for the Playground, by G. S. Barker, Second Master of the

Royal Deaf and Dumb School. 65 pages, illustrated.............50

Gymnastic Games. Classified by E. H. Arnold, M. D.................75

Gymnastics. A Textbook 'of the German-American System of Gymnastics. Specially adapted to the Use of Teachers and Pupils in Public and Private Schools and Gymnasiums. By W. A. Stecher 2.50 Plays and Games for Indoor and Out, by Belle Ragnor Parson..... 1.50
Play.—Games for the Kindergarten, Playground, School-room and

College. By Emmett D. Angell................................. 1.50

Schlagball, (German Bat-Ball). A Game of Ball described in four

Grades of Difficulty by Richard Pertuch.........................15

Song-Plays, Swedish.—By Jacob Bolin................................ .75

Song-Roundels and Games, by Henry Suder..............................75

Dancing.

Athletic Jubilee, by G. M. Caskey..................................  50

Athletic Pageant, a dance for men and boys, by G. M. Caskey..........50

Calisthenics and Fancy Steps for the Gymnasium, Marching.—By

Gertrude Williams-Lundgren......................................50

Dances and Games, Folk.—By Caroline Crawford...................... 1.50

Dances, Drill's and Entertainments, by Gertrude Williams-Lundgren.	. 75

Dances and Singing Games, Folk.—Illustrated; by Elizabeth Bur-

chenal......................................................  1.50

Dancing, Gymnastic. By Wm. J. Davison............................. 1.00

Folk Dances, Swedish.—By Nils W. Bergquist........................ 1.50

Games and Dances, Popular Folk.—Arranged by Mari R. Hofer............75

Song-Plays, Swedish.—By Jacob Bolin..................................75

Song-Roundels and Games, by Henry Suder..............................75

The Folk Dance Book for Elementary Schools, Class Rooms, Playground and Gymnasium, by C. Ward Crampton, M. D.............. 1.50

Pyramids, Swimming, Fencing, Boxing, Wrestling, Tumbling.

Athletics. How to train for Walking, Running, Rowing, Etc., by

William Wood..................................................

Attack and Defense, Art of.—A Manual of Fencing, Sword and Bayonet Exercises, and Boxing, by Major W. J. Elliott..................

At Home in the Water, by Geo. H. Corsan............................

Boxing, Dick's Art of.—A thorough Manual of Sparring and Self-

Defence; illustrated; 127 pages...............................

Fencing with the Foil, Theory of,—in Form of a Catechism, by Geo.

Heintz, Sr., Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.....................

Fencing Instructor, by H. A. Colmore Dunn..........................

Groupings, Athletic,—Taken from Life. By Robert Nohr, M. D. .„. How to. A Book of Tumbling, Tricks, Pyramids and Games.—By

H. Butterworth..................................  ,...........

Manual of Wrestling. Prepared especially for Teachers, by Wilfred

E. Cann and Wm. W. Hasting, Ph. D............................

Mat Exercises, by Elmer Schreiner..................................

Muldoon’s Wrestling................................................

Pyramids for Gymnasts. Lion and Puritz. Six Parts, each............

(Part 1: 72 Pyr. free; Part 2: 72 Pyr. free and with wands; Part 3: 24 Pyr. on Ladders and Chairs; Part 4: 36 Pyr. free and on apparatus; Part 5: 34 Pyr. on Ladders; Part 6: 28 Pyr. variety.)

Pyramids.—J. Reinhardt.

Part I. 80 Pyramids on one Parallel Bar.......................

Part II. 50 Pyramids on two Parallel Bars....................

•25

25

•75

•25

•25 •25

.25

1.00

i-75 .25 •25

45

.70 • 55

Digitized by ^ooQle
-95-

Part III. Pyramids on 1-6 Tables...............................85

Part IV. 70 Pyramids on Table and Chairs.......................70

Part V. 100 Free Pyramids......................................85

Pyramids on Horses.—A. Rietmann.

First Part: 60 Pyramids on 1 and 2 Horses......................70

Second Part:	40	Pyramids on 3 and 4 Horses..................50

50 Pyramids on 1 and on 2 Ladders.......................... 1.00

Swimming, Art of.—Illustrated; by Rich. F. Nelligan.................65

Swimming, by Archibald Sinclair and Wm. Henry; illustrated. ..... 2.50 Wrestling, Dick’s Art of.—A Hand-book of Thorough Instruction in

Wrestling......................................................25

Handbooks of Lessons for Public Schools.

Gymnastics and Tactics, Manual of Exercises in Free.—Arranged by

E. H. Arnold, M. D...........................................  35

Gymnastics, The Teaching of Elementary School.—By Prof. W. P.

Bowen...................................................... 1.00

Gymnastic Exercises for Elementary Schools, by Harriet E. Trask. .	.67

Physical Education, Progressive Lessons. By Clara G. Baer...........50

Physical Culture for Public Schools, Manual.—By Anton Leibold...	.65

Physical Culture.	Primary Book, by B. F. Johnson....................35

Physical Training in the School Room. By Hans Ballin............. 1.00

Physical Training, Manual of.—-By T. Toepel, M. D...................50

Physical Training, by T. Toepel, M. D. 8 Grades, each...............20

Physical Training and Games, Handbook of Lessons in.—By Wm.

A. Stecher.

Part I. First and Second Grades................................35

Part II. Third and Fourth Grades...............................35

Part III. Fifth Grade .....................................    50

The Public School Gymnastic Course, by Carl Betz, Book I 75c, II

out of print, III 75c, IV......................................60

Subjects related to Physical Education.

A Brief History of the North American Gymnastic Union, by H.

Metzner. Translated from the German by Theo. Stempfel, Jr. .50

Anthropometric Chart, by Fr. Pfister, M. D.......................$	.02

Anthropometry and Physical Examination, by J. W. Seaver, M. D... 1.50 Boy Problem, The.—A Study in Social Pedagogy, by M. B. Forbush. 1.00

Breathing Exercises, 240.—By Gertrude Williams-Lundgren.............50

Camping for Boys, by H. W. Gibson............................... 1.00

“Confidential Chats with Boys,” by William Lee Howard........... 1.00

“Confidential Chats with Girls,” by William Lee Howard............ 1.00

Civics and Health, by William H. Allen........................... 1.40

Control of Body and Mind, by F. Gulick Jewett....................‘	.50

Exercises in Education and Medicine, by R. Tait McKenzie, M. D. 3.50

Exercises and Health, by Dr. Wood Hutchinson........................70

Efficient Life, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D..........*............  1.20

Good Health, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D..............................50

Health Through Self-Control in Thinking, Breathing, Eating; by W.

A. Spinney ................................................  1.20

Digitized by Google
-96-

Hygiene and Morality, by Lavinia L. Dock........................ 1.35

Hygiene, Lectures in School.—By Robert Fischer, M. D...............55

Hygiene, Reproduction and Sexual.—By W. S. Hall, M. D............ 1.00

Hygiene, School.—By Edw. R. Shaw................................ 1.00

Inspection of Schools, Medical.—By L. H. Gulick, M. D........... 1.00

Living Things, Some.—Primary Lessons in Physiology. By Ella B.

Hallock........................................................45

Lateral Curvature of the Spine, by Lovett....................... 1.75

Manhood, From Youth into.—By W. S. Hall, M. D......................60

Measurements, Manual for Physical.—By Luther H. Gulick, M# D..	.75

Methods, Statistical.—By Geo. W. Moorehouse, M. L..................25

Mind and Work, by Luther H. Gulick, M. D.......................  1.20

Mind in the Making, by Edgar T. Swift........................... 1.50

Nomenclature, Y. M. C. A.; illustrated.......................... 1.00

Nomenclature, Free Gymnastic.—Part I; illustrated; by E. H. Arnold

M. D.........................................................  35

Open-Air Schools, by Leonard P. Ayres, Ph. D.................... 1.35

“Open Air”-—A statement of what is being done and what should be done to secure right air in homes, schools, offices, factories, churches, etc., by William E. Watt, A. M., Ph. D..................... 1.50

Outdoor Book for Boys, by J. H. Adams........................... 1.95

Pioneers of Modern Physical Training, by Fred. E. Leonard, M. D..	.75

Playgrounds, American.—By E.	B.	Mero......................... 2.00

“Plain Facts on Sex Hygiene,” by William Lee Howard............. 1.00

Playgrounds, First Steps in Organizing.—By Lee F. Hanmer...........10

Play, The People at.—By Rollin L. Hart.. .............*......... 1.65

Playground Technique and Playcraft, by Arthur and Loma Higbee

Leland ....................................................  2.50

Physical Education, by D. A. Sargent, M. D...................... 1.50

Physical1 Nature of the Child, by S. H. Rowe................... 1.00

Physiology of Exercises, Lectures in.—By Robert Fischer, M. D......55

Physiology of Bodily Exercises, by Ferdinand Lagrange, M. D.... 1.75

Red Cross Text-Book on First Aid and Relief Columns, by Major

Charles Lynch .............................................  1.00

School Gardens, by M. Louise Green, Ph. D......................  1.25

Sex and Society. Studies in. the Social Psychology of Sex. By William T. Thomas................................................. 1.50

The Body at Work, by F. Gulick Jewett..............................50

Training, in Theory and Practice, by A. Maclaren...................50

Women’s Life, The Four Epochs of.—A Study in Hygiene. By

Anna M. Galbraith, M. D..................................... 1.50

The Playground season is now upon us

Local conditions often make it impossible for a teacher to use the team games like baseball and others requiring much space. For such teachers and others who are looking for new games we offer

“200 Indoor and Outdoor Gymnastic Games”

By	Qfrag.

Mailing price 75 cents.	MTND	AND	BODY,

Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by