MIND AND BODY

Vol. 34	MAY, 1927 No.	359

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN. EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Brookline, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

---------------------------------♦

Original articles and reprint^

THE NATURE OF INFORMAL ACTIVITIES OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND THEIR PLACE IN THE PROGRAM OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Jesse Feiring Williams

The problem of formal and informal activities in physical education has been a subject of discussion ever since Pestalozzi, Basedow, and Salzmann worked out methods of education through physical activities. The formal procedure has the sanction of antiquity. It has been used in the training of armies, in the disciplining of peoples, in the development of forms of religious observance. The Roman legions flung far and wide over a vast empire, the subjects of every feudal state, the Moslem with his face towards Mecca at the hour of prayer are all illustrations of the scope and power of the formal idea.

’Philadelphia Physical Education Society, Philadelphia, March 19, 1927.

Digitized by' L.oogle
50

The formal has the sanction of the past. It is supported by traditions, customs and beliefs. The informal is new, relatively. In the period of man's recorded history it is but a few moments old in the life of the race. Because of its recency, it lacks the well defined and concrete characteristics in the common understanding of its nature. Whereas, most people know at once the connotation of the word formal, on the contrary the word informal suggests a congeries of ideas that are as incorrect as they are conflicting. It is therefore of considerable importance that we define the terms formal and informal. The dictionary gives several statements of the word formal as applied to special purposes. Its synonyms, however, are: “precise, punctilious, stiff, starched, ritual, ceremonious, external, outward." The word informal is of course the opposite: according to Webster’s New International, “not in the usual or established form; not according to official, conventional, prescribed or customary forms or rules.”

Thus it will be noted that formal procedure requires a set, fixed, predetermined way of doing a thing and informal does not. But is informal a mere negation? If it does not require obedience to a precise procedure, external, ritualistic, and stiff in character, has it a positive meaning at all? To answer these questions is in effect to state the nature of informal activities.

Before proceeding to an analysis of informal activities there is one other point to consider. It will be noted that the definitions above clearly refer to how things are done; that is, the reference is to method. There should be no misunderstanding on this point. In general the wf>rri» fQrrnQl and informal are used to describe either or both method anamatenaT Thus we may speak of a formal teacher or we may refer to formal gymnastics. We may describe an informal lesson or we may recognize informal play activities. It is then by usage that both formal and informal terms have acquired a meaning for activities; essentially, they relate to method. So well founded is this usage, however, that we associate the word formal with artificial activities that require a ceremonious, ritualistic performance, and the word informal with natural activities whose form rests upon the concepts of pragmatism, in that the whole meaning of the form is to be sought in its practical consequences.

It should be remembered, however, that formal method and formal material are not associated by necessity. It is entirely feasible to conduct artificial activities informally and natural activities formally. Aesthetic dancing is frequently taught in an informal manner; football in college is usually taught formally.

With these preliminaries out of the way, let us consider what is the nature of informal activities in physical education. To clearly set the situation, let us briefly inquire into the nature of formal activities.

Formal method proceeds on the assumption that education must be artificial, that man “bom in sin,” prone to make mistakes, is indeed urged by his nature to fight, steal, rape and murder.

Digitized by VjOT3QIC
51

This judgment, arising out of a scholastic philosophy, and strengthened in America by our Puritanic ancestors, holds that nature is all wrong. Man is perverse. Education must save him from himself.

Now to some persons the doctrine of informalism holds that nature is right, that the urges, impulses, and desires of human nature in the long run are wholesome and indeed essential for the development of higher controls. This is the view favored by Hall and his students.

“Thus exercise ought to develop nature’s first intention and fulfill the law of nascent periods, or else it will not only do no good, but great harm may be done.”*

“An evolutionist must hold that the best and not the worst will survive.”**

“Since it is the order of nature that the new organism should pass through certain developmental stages, it behooves us to study nature’s plan, and to seek rather to aid than to thwart it. For nature must be right; there is no higher criterion.”***

This view of nature’s infallibility is interpreted by some to represent the true nature of informalism. They express the idea at times in such phrases as “Do as you please,” but even Hall found it necessary to abandon the logical consequences of his doctrine, for he later writes, “The popular idea that youth must have its fling implies the need of greatly and sometimes suddenly widened liberty, which nevertheless needs careful supervision and wise direction.”t

These two views of man’s nature represent extremes, and partial truths are used to erect universal views. Thorndike presents what to me is a wholly common sense position, when he writes:

“The imperfections and mialeadings of nature are in fact many and momentous. The common good requires that each child learn countless new lessons, and unlearn a large fraction of his natural birthright. The main reason for this is that original equipment is archaic, adapting the human animal for the life that might be led by a family group of wild men in the woods, amongst the brute forces of land, water, wind, rain, plants, animals, and other groups of wild men. The life to which original nature adapts man is probably far more like the life of the wolf or ape than, like the life that now is, as a result of human art, habit and reasoning, perpetuating themselves in language, tools, buildings, books and customs.”tf

Physical education should concern itself with a study of the influence of the natural equipment in motor skills, the force and usefulness of natural impulses to activitity in its various

♦Hall, G. S.: Adolescence, Vol I, p. 208.

♦♦Hall, G. S.: Ipse, Preface, p. XVII.

♦♦♦Guillet, C.: Recapitulation and Education, Ped. Sem. Vol. 7, pp. 397-445. tHall, G. S.: Ipse Vol. II, pp.89-90 tjThomdike, E. L.: The Nature of Man, p. 280.

Digitized by

Google
52

enterprises, and the needs that exist for shaping and directing these skills and impulses towards legitimate social ends.

To an important degree, the distinction to be drawn between natural motor movements that represent the racial motor activities of man and the artificial creations in "systems” of gymnastics arises out of an analysis of the above. The fact that man presents in the racial habits of his neuron organization, certain underlying predispositions to function in well defined motor activities characterized in type and quality by his motor experiences over thousands of years, that he is urged on by his very nature to exploit these established organizations, and that under proper guidance, such expressions may be made to serve high causes and noble ends is of outstanding import.

Now formalism in method arose in ancient times as a procedure by chieftains, princes, kings, priests, and potentates to produce a certain kind of human being. These men knew what they wanted. It must be remembered that historically it has been profitable, always for rulers to inculcate fear, submissiveness, and docility in the masses. Nor should we forget that the most formal types of physical education arose in nations where autocratic power, either of king or counsellors, was exploited to form a precise type of subject.

It is the plain truth of the matter that with the exception of a few extremists, informal method does not rest upon the Nature is Eight doctrine. Its basis is not the infalliability of nature; its method not the laissez faire procedure of do as you please.

On the contrary, informal method is based upon at least four points of view; education is a development, learning is a •process of forming bonds in the nervous system that are strengthened by exercise that is satisfying and weakened by lack of use and by unsatisfying states, worth of the individual man is realized and flexibility of procedure is demanded. Let us examine these four points.

Education is a development. Man has an inheritance through the germ plasm of certain traits. These traits, instincts, impulses require expression, modification, redirection. The development of the individual, then, is the favoring of certain traits, giving them an opportunity, and provoking situations that will call diem into activity/] With this view uppermost, the aim of physical education is to offer an opportunity for the individual or group to act in situations that are physically wholesome, mentally stimulating and satisfying, and socially sound. We are confronted with the plain truth that about all we can do in any educational endeavor is to offer th<T best opportunity for the individual to do the things that are worth-while doing, of which society can approve, and from which he gets thoroughgoing satisfaction.

The second point holds that learning is a process of forming bonds in the nervous system. This process has come to be in-

Digitized by* ^.ooQie
53

terpreted by what are known as the Laws of Learning. Briefly they are all the Law of Exercise and the Law of Effect. The Law of Exercise has two phases,—the Law of Use and the Law of Disuse.

1.	Whenever a modifiable connection between a situation and a response is exercised, other things being equal, the strength of that connection is increased.

2.	Whenever a modifiable connection between a situation and a response is not exercised, during a length of time, the strength of the connection is decreased.

The Law of Effect may be stated as follows:

The individual tends to repeat and learn quickly those reactions which are accompanied or followed by a satisfying state of affairs. The individual tends not to repeat or learn quickly those reactions which are accompanied or followed by an annoying state of affairs. These laws have profound significance,for method. In the first place, it is quite clear that we must exercise the bonds that we wish to develop in boys and girls. If we wish docile, submissive, stereotype adults, society should set up formal procedure of the most rigorous kind in home and school. Physical education in formal response-command exercises will aid in such training. If, on the contrary, society desires to train boys and girls to become responsible, thoughtful, self-con-trolled and self-disciplined men and women, individuals with initiative, poise, and confidence, then informal methods are required in which the individual is given an opportunity to react to situations calling for responses of such character.

The third point suggests the essence of public opinion in America in political and social matters. The worth of the individual man is impressed in that characteristic document of American political philosophy. The equality of all men should not be interpreted as biological equality, especially in these days when intelligence tests, vocational placement, and individual Hif-ferences have made clear the unique biological inequality of persons. But the central fact remains, that here in America we reject the European notion of fixed class distinctions, and the oriental idea of caste. We barely escaped it, however. The early days of the Republic were characterized by the assumption of power by those who in their own words “were fit to rule.” But with the election of Andrew Jackson as President of the United States, formalism in education was doomed, and there faded out of the educational picture all possibility of establishing here a system of gymnastics requiring uniformity, implicit obedience, precise movements, ceremonial and ritualistic procedures. Informal activities rest on the political and social foundation and are a complete confutation to regimentation of the European type.

Finally, informal method is based upon the principle of flexibility of procedure in relation to objectives desired. It recognizes the fact of individual differences, the need for adjustment of plans, the urgency to strike while the iron is hot, and

Digitized by VjOO^l0
54

pursue that worth while quality, result or attitude a: opportunity offers.

This principle of flexibility is an important consideration cf informal method, but a wise teacher adjusts method in harmony with this very principle. Thus, it should be recognized that informal method, in response to this principle of flexibility, may exhibit at times considerable organization of a formal character. It is the plain truth of the matter that whenever one teaches a group there is some formality. Under certain conditions there may be considerable organization, with exact directions for procedure. The conditions may require this, but it. is employed not for. the usual objectives of the formalists, but for the simple purpose of getting the activity to go on.

This flexibility may be illustrated. Suppose one is teaching to second grade children a dramatic game. What is wanted in this activity? Aside from the physiological values, one might wish to develop self-expression, initiative, and even raise dramatic problems of impersonation to the thought level, so as to secure something more than mere imitation. Clearly the method would be very informal, offering a wide range of individual expression and freedom of a mental and physical kind.

Now suppose one is teaching team games to a group of sixth grade boys. Clearly more organization is required. This may come entirely from the teacher, or may be established by him through the boys so that the procedures of organization are arrived at by them, agreed to by them, and are in fact their standards. Nevertheless, the age of the boys and the nature of the activity requires more "formality, but in this instance also, the formalism is not an end in itself but a means to an end. What may one hope to get from such activity, aside from physiological returns? Would a thorough-going group response, the knowledge of good qualities in leaders, the ability to select good leaders, the ability to follow leaders selected be worthwhile outcomes?

Therefore, as regards the nature of informal activities, one is confronted with the fundamental conflict between formal and informal returns. The formal seeks to discipline, to make uniform, to order the exact expression, form, and reaction of the individual. The informal seeks to help the individual to acquire self-discipline, to escape uniformity of response through stimulation of each individual to his best, and to give opportunity for the individual to react to standards set up by the group to which he will give allegiance.

Now the place of these two types of activities in the program of physical education depends upon what you are trying to do. The formal has always had a prominent place in a kind of physical education that was conceived as a corrective, rehabilitating, restorative, disciplinary procedure. As long as people hold the chief business of physical education to be correction of defects, production of perspiration through so-called hygienic exercises, restoring physical power through the^uilding of muscles,

Digitized!	)OQLC
55

and disciplining children so they will conduct themselves as spiritless, wooden Indian automatons, just so long will formal procedures of the precise kind have a place in physical education.

But as we get to the point where we realize that the outstanding needs of citizenship in modern America calls for educative rather than corrective, hospitalized procedures, we will consider the following:

1.	The need for thorough-going participation by the individual in which the urge to activity is the instinctive neuron patterns of his nervous system rather than the drive, force, or personality of an instructor. This should be quite clear. It is well known that there are teachers who can make artificial and formal work interesting, but the very fact that the activity must be made interesting illustrates the dressing up required in such activities. Also a poor teacher may fail to hold the interest of a group with very worth while, naturally interesting material. This principle of thorough-going participation must be decided wholly apart from the personality of the teacher, and the unique and characteristic appeal of the activity itself be the sole guide.

2.	The need for elevation of our activity program to the level of thought about motor problems. This provides the sanction for the term physical education. The teacher is not to exercise the class, but the teacher as a leader opens up a field of activity in which the participants find many interesting motor problems. The acquirement of skills is directly proportional to one’s

^intpr^st. in solving the problem. Teachers can not ac-quire the skill for the pupil; the pupil must acquire it himself. Now too frequently the place of physical education is catalogued as provision of exercise, or development of muscular strength. These miss the mark. The place of physical education in the schools is to give opportunity for boys and girls to learn certain important motor skills.

3.	The need for leisure time education: It has been my experience, in college administration, to listen to boys and girls coming from high school who sought to be excused from physical education in the University. Mark you, many boys and girls at the age when a proper physical education would have provided them with skills, interests, attitudes, and appreciations of a wide range of desirable motor activities coming to the University and asking that they be excused from dancing, playing tennis, hockey, baseball, soccer, and swimming in the pool. Such a situation clearly is tragic. Regardless of the ability of such youths to do a waltz series, to take a stride stand position, or to lunge properly to the side, they are physically illiterate by every reasonable test of modern life.

Digitized by UjOOQle
56

This is of significance in leisure time education. Leisure time presents a problem today. To educate for leisure time at the close of the Civil War would have been absurd. To neglect to do so today is stupid. The almost nation-wide character of the 8-hour day, the recent 5-day week proposal, with the announcement of President Green of the American Federation of Labor that three industries are ready for the 5-day week, the tremendous commercialization of recreation in the movies and spectator athletics demand of physical education such a place for informal natural activities of the play, game, dance, sport, and camping type that our boys and girls of the schools will be educated in wholesome ways for enjoyment of leisure time.

4.	The need for physical education of an informal type to function in the life of the individual now. Since children in the elementary schools require for developmental purposes from four to five hours of activity involving the larger muscles of the body, as show by Mr. Hether-ington, Dr. Burdick, and Dr. Seham, and since the school day can not be expected to provide the whole of such requirement, then clearly the physical education period must be viewed as a teaching, educative period rather than an exercising, corrective or disciplinary one. And the place of such teaching period is clearly defined in terms of activities that will function in the life of the child. Children out of school engage in certain plays. It might well be the place of physical education to teach them, as Professor Briggs suggests, to do better those worth-while things they will do anyway, and, in addition, to open up the field for them to the extent that they can utilize its offerings.

In conclusion, then, it has been my argument that formal methods and activities sanctioned by a remote past seek certain precise, stiff, and ceremonial forms to the end that disciplined, docile, standardized individuals may be produced, readily obedient to a military-like organization of society. It has been my argument that informal methods and activities arise out of the racial experiences of man, express the organization already set up and running in his nervous system sonip 500,000 years old, and are based upon a concept of education as development, the learning process a formation of bonds, the worth of the individual man, and the principle of flexibility.

Finally, it has been my argument that the place of physical education is to be determined by what you are trying to do, that if you wish physical education to serve as a perspiration device, a corrective procedure, as a part of the discipline for soldiering, you will give formal activities; but if, on the contrary, you think of physical education as meeting the need for thoroughgoing participation in wholesome activity, as meeting the need for the acquirement of serviceable skills, as meeting the need

Digitized by

Google

i
57

for leisure time education, and as meeting the need of boys and girls for functional instructional lessons, then physical education of informal, naturally interesting activities will take a dominant position in the school program.

A COMPREHENSIVE PROGRAM TO INSURE PHYSICAL

FITNESS

William A. Stecher

In the January, 1924, issue of Mind and Body I described the plan that is followed in Germany to have young men and adults keep physically fit until old age. Since that time a second plan has been perfected that takes into account the boy (and girl) from the time he enters school.

By means that are described below this plan endeavors to have the youth interested in his own physical development. The rules formulated to put this plan into effect are as follows:

Rule 1. The national committee (Deutscher Reichs-Aus-schuss fuer Leibesuebungen) awards the “National Ability Badge for Youths” as a public recognition for comprehensive accomplishments in the realm of bodily education.

2.	This “Youth’s Badge” demands a five fold test, embracing accomplishments based upon sound heart and lungs, strength, virility, speed and endurance.

3.	The object of the plan is to create interest in all around physical development as a means for increasing public welfare.

4.	Every German, up to the conclusion of his eighteenth year, may strive for the badge.

5.	The tests are progressive in character, leading up to the qualifications required for the winning of the Badge for Adults. NOTE: This test and its requirements was described in the January, 1924, issue of Mind and Body.

6.	The tests are arranged in five groups (as explained below). Every applicant must select and pass in one of the events in each group. The five tests must be passed in 12 months, beginning with the day the first test was passed.

7.	The examiners are the judges that have been selected by national organizations fostering specific sports and teachers in schools that endorse the badge tests.

8.	Candidates for a badge receive an official “Record book” that on sixteen pages contains spaces for each accomplishment, for the signatures of the judges and for the official stamp of the organization furnishing the judges. This record book costs one mark.

9.	After the records in the book have been verified at the office of the national central committee, the badge is awarded to the applicant.

The Record book is divided into three parts. Introductory statements are as follows: Health is the foundation for happi-

Digitized by

C ogle
58

ness. Cultivate your body so that you may remain healthy. Keep track of your development and accomplishments so that you may be assured of continued health.

Part I has spaces for two yearly examinations, over a period of 15 years, covering the following items.

1)	Weight, 2) Height, 3) Chest circumference, at inhalation, at exhalation. 4) Circumference of upper arm, 5) Circumference of thigh.

These measurements are to be made by the teacher, while the following measurements are to be made by a “Sports-physician”.

This part of the Record book also has spaces for two yearly examinations during 15 years. The items are as follows:

1)	General impression of the body, 2) Spinal column, 3) Shape of thorax, 4) Skin, 5) Muscle strength, 6) Muscle mass, 7) Nutrition, 8) Body organs.

Part 2 covers the development of the following physical activities. The book again has space for two tests a year for 15 years.

1)	50 meter dash for boys under 14 years 100 meter dash for girls under 16 years.

2)	3000 meter run, for youths over 17 years

3)	Running Broad jump

4)	Running High Jump (without board)

5)	Shot put, 5 kilograms, for boys under 18 years and for women; 7 1-4 kilograms, for boys over 18 years

6)	Baseball farthrow Javelin throw

7)	Chinning

8)	Swimming, 50 meters, under 17 years 100 meters, over 17 years

The next two pages allow space for the recording of honors won in all kinds of gymnastic and athletic competitions.

It can readily be seen that if any one has for fifteen years kept a record of his condition and of his accomplishments, that it will be possible to predict his success or failure when he is ready to compete for the Badge in the events outlined under part 3.

Part 3, on two pages has the spaces necessary for recording the results of the examinations or tests in the following groups of bodily exercises.

Group 1. Swimming. The applicant must swim 300 meters in still water. In flowing water the swim must be over and back. No time is set for the accomplishment of this test. (A meter is a little more than 3 feet., i. e., 39 plus inches.)

Group 2. Jumping. Vaulting.

High jump 1.30 meters.

Broad jump 4.50 meters

Giant straddle over the long horse, 1.10 meters high, (without board in any event).

Digitized by VjOOQLC
59

Group 3. Running.

100 meters, in 13.6 seconds

1000 meters, in 3 minutes, 30 seconds.

Group 4. Throwing, Putting, Lifting, Life-saving, Apparatus Work.

Discus, 1 1-2 kilograms, 25 meters (a kilogram is 2.20 lbs.)

Javelin, 500 grams, 30 meters 800 grams, 25 meters Shot put, 5 kilograms, 8 meters Weight lifting, 50 kilograms, 6 times from ground .	overhead

Life-saving certificate, granted by the Life-savings Association

Apparatus Work.

a)	Parallel Bars. Upperarm swinging, swingstem at the backswing, foreswing, momentary straddleseat before the hands, backswing to upperarm stand,' roll forward to upperarm hang, back and foreswing, kip to straight arm support, back and foreswing and flank vault.

b)	Horizontal Bar. Swingstem, hip circle, kip and underswing.

Group 5. Endurance Exercise

3000 meter run, in 14 minutes.

600 meter swim, in 18 minutes 9 kilometers rowing, in 1 hour 20 kilometers bicycling, in 55 minutes

The applicant selects one exercise from each group. The successful accomplishment of each exercise must be witnessed by two judges, who attach the official seal of their institution in the place reserved for this. A photograph of the applicant is pasted on the first page. The applicant also signs his name in the proper place.

Results: At the end of the first year 4600 badges had been won by pupils, 3600 of whom were in the higher schools and in societies. 320 teachers of physical education were authorized to conduct the tests, besides many others who were nominated by sports organizations and approved by the central committee.

This condensed description of a plan to interest boys and girls in their physical development should be of interest to those readers of Mind and Body who are looking for a scheme that really will bring worthwhile results. Until one of our national organizations develops and promotes a similar comprehensive

Elan, a plan that will appeal to boys and girls, each teacher will e forced to work out his own ideas.

Digitized by CjOOQle
60

‘HEALTH IS WEALTH

One of these days, when you have a few minutes to spare, just sit down with your diary (if you are industrious enough to keep one) and solemnly determine, over a given period, how many pains you have endured, how many days’ work you have lost on account of ill-health; how many “liverish” mornings have occurred when everything has appeared in its blackest form, when the very sound of another’s voice has engendered homicidal thoughts—especially during the first meal of the day. Estimate the sum you have expended on “nauseous draughts,” . on doctors' fees, on dentists’ bills and the like. If you are honest and your labours are thorough you will be astonished at the results you obtain. And once you have completed your task, you will probably find that in the first place you have acquired, in common with Jerome K. Jerome’s famous character, every complaint known to the household physician with the exception of housemaid’s knee—and if you be a lady you may have acquired even this—and, secondly, the monetary cost of your pain and suffering is enough to keep you in luxurious comfort for a considerable period.

If you are a thinking adult, you will remember that in the days of long ago you were wont to hear your parents refer to you in terms of the highest praise: “There never was such a baby,” and further contemplation will arosue in you a great wonder as to why the perfect baby should have evolved into this grousing, corpulent, dyspetic creature.

Health demands three essentials, which I will place in their order of importance, although for complete health all must be present:—

1.	Food—healthy and nourishing.

2.	Suitable exercise.

3.	Pleasing surroundings.

Appendicitis, bad teeth, constipation, flatulence, gastric troubles, corpulence, and many of the internal complaints can be traced to the neglect of these fundamental principles, and it behooves all those who would live to an old age, with the maximum of efficiency and the minimum of pain, to pay particular attention to their manner of living.

What should we eat? An eminent doctor tells us to partake of a simple diet, whole meal bread, plain biscuits, plain puddings, vegetables, fruit, some meat, fish, milk, butter and cheese,	and very few condiments. Three meals a day should be

the maximum. If you are inclined to corpulence, then cut your meals down to two. “Eat salads, such as lettuce, cucumber, tomatoes and watercress, young cabbage, brussels sprouts, young carrots, onions, beetroots, and even dandelion and nasturtium leaves. Instead of pudding, take uncooked fruit. Tea and coffee after dinner retard digestion, but you may take one cup of weak tea. If your mid-day meal is your dinner, you

*Reprint from

“Physical Education," England.

Digitized by Google
61

may take fish, fowl and game, which are better than veal, pork, or roast beef. Some days your dinner at one o'clock should consist of bread and cheese, some butter, an omelette and a salad of raw fruit.”

Rich messes are an insult to the digestive organs. The plainer your diet, the less will be your chances of contracting pain.

A word with regard to the manner of eating. First of all look after your teeth. The “uncivilised savage” does not know the meaning of toothache; it is only when he assimilates the white man’s methods that his teeth fail him. Pay regular attendance to the dentist; it will save you much pain and much money. Next, make sure that you chew your food completely. Your teeth were given you for use, not ornament. Unchewed food descends to the stomach and remains there undigested, giving off gases and in general upsetting the whole system. Eat slowly, rest after a meal, don’t stuff, and avoid excess of meat. Finish your meal with a small piece of toast or crusty bread, and, above all, don’t indulge in “snacks” between your legitimate meals.

Exercise.—If you don’t believe you require exercise, or if you believe your daily routine provides you with all the exercise you require, then just dress in nature’s garb, take your stand in front of your mirror, and subject your person to careful survey. You may withstand the shock! Obtain a side view, note the way your abdomen has commenced to push itself forward to your notice, note the sagging knees (and understand the cause of bagging pants), note the flattening arch of the foot, the rounded shoulders, the flabby muscles, the dropped head and the lounging carriage—observe, and be ashamed, and remember “God never made his work for man to mend.”

And once you have observed and have shuddered, begin not to make excuses: “Well, even if I am an unlovely sight I respect the aesthetic sense of mankind and cloak my nakedness in civilisation's loveliest attire.” I wonder whether we do delude our fellow creatures in this way? Unfortunately, perhaps, the aesthetic sense outraged is merely of secondary importance, and with regard to the human frame, serves to draw our attention to more serious disabilities. Faults in the body of the man indicate internal wrongs. Round shoulders indicate flat chest, which in turn points to inefficient respiratory powers; protruding abdomen denotes weakness of the abdominal muscles, and hence weakness of the internal organs of the abdomen. A flattened arch of the foot may mean considerable pain in the near future; flabby muscles mean loss of efficiency and of that sense of physical fitness which makes life worth living. And the sum total of these observations indicates a premature old age.

Yet another excuse: “My work and my family take up all my time; I have no time to fool with childish games.” And yet isn’t it merely a question of balance? Just work it out. An hour a week, fifty-two hours—or a tjarp ^vyg^gre^a year;
62

eighty days—or less than three months—in forty years; and that goes on the debit side of the account. On the credit side, many years of extra life practically assured; a life free from pain, free from lost days; a life full of physical comfort and an easy and gradual old age. It is a pleasing prospect, and certainly attainable by the average man and woman.

How to get your exercises—Unfortunately, public opinion has not yet realised to the full the ideals of the ancient Greeks, with their love of the beautiful in general and of the human body in particular. In ancient times there existed public gymnasia, where the body could be trained under expert guidance. One day, perhaps, in this country we shall rise to the occasion and insist that every town and every village has its public gymnasium with its professional instructor, where all may gather for the purpose of rejuvenescence. In the meantime we must be satisfied with such scant provision as at present exists.

There are few towns where some premises cannot be obtained, and where expert teachers do not exist, and in these cases the formation of classes should be an easy matter. Classes do exist in many centres, but it is only the few who take advantage of the facilities offered; and even then it is generally only the youth who attends. In a few isolated cases classes are held for the older adults, but personally I shall never be satisfied until I see classes formed for men and women of all ages from fourteen to ninety—not in the same class, perhaps, for the youth of sixteen is naturally more adapted for feats of strength and endurance than his father or grandfather.

The Morning dose.—If classes do not exifct and there appears to be little prospect of such, even then do not despair, for a few minutes spent each morning in the privacy of your own house will do much to assist you to regain your lost youth or to arrest the insidious approach of old age. Try the following exercises in the given order each morning before you dress.

1.	Run down stairs quickly, secure your shaving water if you be a man, and return briskly to your bedroom. Leave your water for a few minutes, lie at full length on your bed (your window will, of course be open all night,) and relax.

2. Before you have time to drop off to sleep again, blow your nose steadily until the passages are clear, and then, relaxed, take a few breaths in through the nose deeply. Exhale slowly.

3.	Still lying on the bed, stretch the whole of the body several times, as though you were yawning.

4.	Now sit up and rub and pummel the muscles of the legs, twist the ankles about, work the knee joints, and then jump out of bed and swing each leg vigorously from the hip in turn. Rise on tip-toe and stretch the body with the arms above the head, then bend the knees and crouch down on the floor. Do this sevej^l tiRi^oO'
63

5.	Lie full length on the bed again, and, by contracting the belly muscles try to make the small of the back press against the bed.

6.	Pull your knees up to your chest, straighten them, and then lower to the bed. Sit up, and, keeping your legs straight, place your hands under your knees and pull your head to your knees.

7.	Stand on the floor with the body relaxed and bend down and touch the toes, at the same time breathing out. Stand upright and breathe in deeply. Perform this several times.

8.	Sponge yourself down and rub the whole body briskly with a rough towel. You will be served up for breakfast warm and glowing.

SUMMER PLAYTIME

If proof were needed as to how much slack the public schools take up in the average family life where there are children of varying ages, let the parent take inventory, now that the vacation days are coming. Much of the problem has been solved for the parent during the summer by continuation of the play-grounds and recreation centers conducted in connection with the schools. But the question still is heard, morning, noon and night, “What can we do?” To an active, healthy and virile child, time hangs heavy on its hands unless constantly engaged, physically and mentally. It is comparatively easy to fill in the few hours a day before and after school during the school year, but for the three months when that which we call vacation, but which is more in the way of an idle period, is upon the parent to supervise, the real work of the school is realized, and, let it be hoped, appreciated.

In the last few years there has come to the rescue the summer playfield, in a large measure under adequate supervision either through the schools or independent recreational associations civic, or voluntarily supported by the people of stated communities. There is a wholesome builder in these summer recreational grounds. The swimming pool, the spacious grounds where baseball and various other of the more vigorous games may be indulged in the whole day through. All count for much in the proper development and training of the child. Ordinarily, freed from the restraint of the school room, the child becomes more or less of a problem. The point for the parent and the social structure to watch is the reaction from the study periods. Undoubtedly much of our juvenile delinquencies may be traced to a failure to properly appreciate the predicament of the child when the summer months come, with nothing to do. There can be no greater interest at the heart of any city or community than a further development of the summer playfields. After all, it really isn’t play. Not much more so than school-tasks are play, because the child up to at least adolescent age plays at whatever he does. If this were not true we would have too

Digil	)y Vj U Uv 1L
64

many serious-minded grownups. And so, if the child spends several hours a day on the public play-field, it should not be said that he cares only for play. He is actually at work; that is, if the playfield is anywhere near adequate and if there is system in its administration.

Many cities have gone to great lengths and large expense to equip and maintain their summer recreational grounds. It is money well invested. It is worth more than merely the expenditure of dollars and cents to have the boy and girl ready for school in the fall, healthful, hardy and clear and clean of mind.

INCREASE IN STATURE OF AMERICAN BOYS IN THE LAST FIFTY YEARS*

Horace Gray, M. D., Chicago

Increases in the stature of children (average height for age) as shown in some recent series of observations,** may be due to taller ancestry or to more comfortable economic class. But between two homogeneous groups an increase may also be due to other causes: measurement in the morning rather than the afternoon; measurement in a month of the year when seasonal growth is more rapid; accident (random sampling); progress in control of various infantile diseases that retard growth; knowledge of vitamins, sunlight and rachitis, with consequent better nurture. This paper, however, is concerned not with the cause but with the phenomenon. It is said by Boas*** to be evident for various peoples in Europe. Is it also a fact for American boys, and how great is the increase?

Evidence may be seen by comparing our private school boys with as nearly similar a series measured half a century ago as can be found. First, let us take Bowditch’s data on Boston boys, who, though in public schools, for there were relatively few private schools in those days, were the sons of American born fathers in the professions.**** (Since Bowditch averaged the statures for groups according to the last birthday, his mean stature, 107 cm. for last birthday 5, is the same as for nearest birthday 5 1-2. In order to translate his averages to the nearest even year, it is necessary to interpolate. Thus, to his mean

♦Read before the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Section on Anthropology, Philadelphia, Dec. 27, 1926.

♦♦From the Behavior Research Fund, the Institute for Juvenile Research, Herman M. Adler, M. D., director, series B, number 1.

♦♦Gray Horace; and Fraley, Frederick: Growth Standards, Height, Chest Girth and Weight for Private School Boys, Am. J. Dis. Child 32:554 (Oct.) 1926.

♦♦♦Boas, F.: Anthropometric Study of Children, Tr. Fifteenth Internat. Cong. Hyg., Washington 3:415, part I (Sept.) 1912.

♦♦♦♦Bowditch, H. P.: Growth of Children, Massachusetts Board of Health, Tenth Annual Report, Boston, January, 1879, p. 33.

Digitized by V^jOOQLC
65

Increase	in Stature of American Boys in		the Last Fifty	Years.
	Height (Cm.) for Age		Excess	
			in Stature (Cm.)	
	Bowditch’s	Bowditch’s	of Our 1,016 Boys	
	Sons of	Sons of	over	
Age	American Bom	American Bom		
Nearest Men in		Men in		
Year	Professions	Selected Schools	Col. 2	Col. 3
1	2	3	4	5
6	110..0		9..0	
7	116..1		8..0	
8	122..4		7..8	
9	127.0		8..5	
10	130..7		9..1	
11	136..0	137..7	6.7	5.0
11	136. .0	137..7	6.7	5..0
12	141..5	141..8	7..7	7..4
13	146..7	147..8	6..1	5..0
14	152..5	153..8	9.5	8..2
15	159..6	159..7	7..9	7-8
16	164..5	165..1	7..7	7..1
17	167..2	169..2	7„3	5„3
18	169..5		7-2	
All ages,	sum			102..5	45„8
All ages mean 				7„9	6.5

cm.

HEIGHT FOB ACE

in.
66

stature for last birthday 5 years, 107 cm., I have added half the difference between that mean and the mean 112.9 cm. for last birthday 6, nearest 6 1-2. This is 2.45 cm., which, rounded off to the even digit 2.4 plus 107=110 cm. for nearest birthday 6 years. And so on for each successive age.) Bowditch’s averages corrected to read for nearest year of age are in column 2 (our averages have appeared elsewhere*), and the differences between his and our series in column 4. It is clear that boys of today are taller than boys of their class and age of half a century ago, by an average of 7.9 cm. (3 1-2 inches.)

Let us repeat these calculations for another series composed of(303 Boston boys of American parentage, occupation not considered, attending a group of selected schools: the Private Latin School, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Public Latin School.* The last, although it was a public school, offered such good preparation for college that it attracted many boys presumably equaling in quality the pupils in the two private schools simultaneously selected by Bowditch. The corrected mean statures in column 3 are seen to be greater than in Bow-ditch’s other series quoted in the preceding paragraph. Even in comparison with this taller group of Bowditch’s, it is seen in column 5 that our boys exceed by an average of 6.5 cm. (2 6-10) inches).

Summary

American-born boys of American-born parents are today taller than boys fifty years ago, as similar as have been found, by more than 2 inches.

♦Bowditch, H. P.: Growth of Children, Massachusetts Board of Health Eighth Annual Report, January 1877, p. 275.

CANCER NOT HEREDITARY

Cancer is not a hereditary disease. The Lake Mohawk conference of cancer specialists from all parts of the world at the close of a four days session adopted the following statements that should be of good interest to all teachers of health education.

“Although the present state of knowledge of cancer is not sufficient to permit the formulation of such procedures for the suppression of this malady as have been successfully employed for tiie suppression of infectious diseases,” said the statement, “there is enough well established fact and sound working opinion concerning the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of cancer to save many lives, if this information is carried properly into effect.

"Although the causation of cancer is not completely understood, it may be accepted that for all practical purposes cancer is not to be looked upon as contagious qjiei^feafebnwk
67

“Cancer itself is not hereditary, although a certain predisposition or susceptibility to cancer is apparently transmissible through inheritance. This does not signify that because one’s parent or parents or other members of the family have suffered from cancer, cancer will necessarily appear in other persons of the same or succeeding generation.

“The control of cancer, so far as this subject can be understood at the present time, depends upon the employment of measures of personal hygiene and certain preventive and curative measures, the success of which depends upon the intelligent co-operation of patient and physician.

Early Treatment Necessary

“People who have cancer must apply to competent physicians at a sufficiently early stage of the disease, in order to have a fair chance of cure. This applies to all forms of cancer. In some forms early treatment affords the only possibility of cure. Cancer in most parts of the body can be discovered in a very early stage, and if cases are treated properly the prospect for permanent cure is good.

"The cure of cancer depends upon discovering the growth before it has done irreparable injury to a vital part of the body and before it has spread to other parts. Therefore, efforts should be made to improve the methods of diagnosis in these various locations and the treatment of the cancers so discovered.

“The public must be taught the earliest danger signals of cancer, which can be recognized by persons without a special knowledge of the subject, and induced to seek competent medical attention when any of these indications are believed to be present.

Could Save Many Lives

“There is much that medical men can do in the prevention of cancer in the detection of early cases in the referring of patients to institutions and physicians who can make the proper diagnosis and apply proper treatment, when the physicians them-wlves are unable to accomplish these results. The more efficient the i*nrily doctor is the more ready he is to share responsibility with a specialist.

"The most reliable forms of treatment, and, in fact the only ones thus far justified by experience and observations, depend upon surgery, radium and x-raya.

“Efforts toward the control of cancer should be made in two principal directions, the promotion of research in order to increase the existent knowledge of the subject and the practical employment of the information which is at hand. Even with our present knowledge many lives could be saved which are sacrifice! to unnecessary delay.”

Digitized by LjOOQle
68

ANNIVERSARY DANCE—1927

By Janet B. Walter and Samuel Judelsohn, Philadelphia.

Music—"El Sonriento San Pedro”—Victor Record 73400 Formation—Groups of three in open order, counted off 1,2,3 from right to left.

Introduction

Stand in position. On the last note raise arms sideward. (Arms remain sideward unless otherwise designated.)

Part I

A.	1. Place left foot forward and backward, left arm forward

and sideward; change step left forward (counts 1-4)

2.	Two glides right sideward and a full turn right in two steps, arms forward and sideward on turn (counts 5-8)

3—4 Repeat 1 and 2 opposite finishing with two stamps instead of turn (counts 9-16).

B.	Repeat A (counts 1-16).

Part II

1. Each group of three forms a circle with walking steps, Nos. 1 and 3 face and move in, No. 2 moves slightly backward joining hands (counts 1-4).

2.	Circle counterclockwise with four walking steps (counts 5-8).

3.	Two steps backward from the center, enlarging the circle; two steps forward toward the center (counts 9-12).

4.	Circle clockwise with four walking steps (counts 13-16).

5.	Balance hop left forward, arms raised upward; swing hop right backward (counts 17-20).

6.	In four steps open out to a straight line, facing front, with hands still joined, Nos. 1 and 3 stepping backward, No. 2 in place (counts 21-24).

Part III

A.	1. Facing right, the three moving toward the right—placv •

the left foot forward and backward and change step forward (counts 1-4).

2.	Repeat right (counts 5-8)

3- -4 Facing about and moving toward the left, repeat 1 and 2 (counts 9-16)

B.	1. Releasing hands and facing the front—balance hop left

forward, right arm overhead, swing hop right backward, left arm forward (counts 1-4).

2.	Rear cross step, left, right, left and hold (counts 5-8)

3—4 Repeat 1 and 2 opposite (counts 1-8)

5—6 Repeat 1 and 2 (counts 1-8)

♦The Division of Physical Education celebrates its twentieth anniversary.

Digitized by VjUUyLL
69

C.	1. Four skipping steps forward, moving arms sightly up-

ward (counts 1-4).

2.	Four skipping steps backward, lowering arms to sideward position (counts 5-8)

3.	Repeat 1 (counts 9-12).

4.	Repeat 2 (counts 13-16).

D.	Repeat B 1-6 beginning right (counts 1-24).

E.	1. Face left and four skipping steps forward, moving arms

slightly upward (counts 1-4)

2.	Four skipping steps backward, lowering arms to sideward position (counts 5-8).

3.	Face right about and four skipping steps forward, moving the arms slightly upward (counts 9-12).

4.	Four skipping steps backward and face front, lowering the arms to a sideward position (counts 13-16).

Part IV

Repeat Part I, A (counts 1-16).

Part V

Repeat Part II (counts 1-24).

Part VI

A.	Repeat Part III A (counts 1-16)

B.	Repeat Part III B (counts 1-24).

C.	1. The group of three close in to the center, arms encircling

waists, and circle counterclockwise with eight skipping steps (counts 1-8).

2.	Four skipping steps forward (counts 1-4)

3.	Four skipping steps backward and hold (counts 1-4)

ANNIVERSARY DRILL—1927 A Flag Drill

By Janet B. Walter and Samuel Judelsohn, Philadelphia.

Music—“Alte Kameraden”—Victor Record No. 73285 NOTE:

Pupils carry a flag in each hand at the sides, holding the stick near the end. The length of the stick should be about 18 in.; the material should be about 9” by 12”. Either American flags or flags of school colors may be used. If there are two school colors, one flag of each color is suggested.

Formation.

Open ranks of four. Files numbered from right to left, 1, 2, 3, 4.

Note:—The Division of Physical Education celebrates its tewentieth anniversary.

Digitized by ^

i Google
A. 1.

2.

3.

4.

B.

C. 1.

2.

3.

4.

D.

E.

2.

3.

4.

F.

2.

3.

4.

G.

70

Raise arms sideward. 1-4; double arm circle outward (7-8ths) to oblique sideupward position, 5-8; reverse, 9-12; return, 13-16.

Repeat 1, 1-16.

Repeat 1, 1-16.

Raise arms sideward, 1-4; double arm circle outward (7-8ths) to oblique sideupward position, 5-8; reverse, 9-12; circle arms outward (1 1-4 circle), finish with arms at sides, 13-16.

Close ranks to center with side steps and march in place holding flags in front of chest, pointing to the left, 1-8. Whole wheel left, 9-24.

Open ranks with side steps and march in place, lowering arms on last count, 25-32.

Raise both arms left sideward, 1-2; swing arms down and raise right sideward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8. Repeat 1, opposite, 1-8.

Repeat 1, 1-8.

Raise both arms right sideward, 1-2; swing arms down and raise left sideward, 3-4; double arm circle left (1 1-4), finish with arms at sides, 5-8.

Repeat B, 1-32

Lunge left sideward and raise both arms left sideward, 1-2; swing arms down and raise right sideward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

Repeat 1, opposite, 1-8.

Repeat 1, 1-8.

Lunge right sideward and raise both arms right sideward 1-2; swing arms down and raise left sideward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; double arm circle right (1 1-4), finish with arms at sides, 7-8.

Introduction.

Stand at attention four counts.

(Alternate files work in opposite directions.)

Files 1 and 3:

Face left, lunge left forward and swing arms obliquel foreupward, 1-4; swing arms obliquely backward, 5-8; reverse, 9-12; return, 13-16.

Repeat 1 opposite, 1-16.

Repeat 1, 1-16.

Face right, lunge right forward and swing arms obliquely foreupward, 1-4; swing arms obliquely backward, 5-8; reverse, 9-12; forward arm circle with left arm, 13-14; return to starting position, 15-16.

Files 2 and 4.

Same movements as Files 1 and 3, but in opposite direction, 1-64.

(Alternate files work in opposite directions.)

Files 1 and 3:

Digitized by VjOOQ 1C
1.

71

Face left, lunge left forward, and swing arms obliquely foreupward, 1-4; turn trunk right and swing right arm obliquely right downward, 5-8; reverse, 9-12; return, 13-

16.

2.	Repeat 1, opposite, 1-16.

3.	Repeat 1, 1-16

4.	Face right, lunge right forward and swing arms obliquely foreupward, 1-4; turn trunk left and swing left arm obliquely left downward, 5-8; reverse, 9-12; forward arm circle with left arm, 13-14; return to starting position, 15-16.

Files 2 and 4:

Same movements as Files 1 and 3, but in opposite direction, 1-64

H.	1. Swing arms sideupward to crossed position overhead, 1-4; circle arms outward to crossed position front of chest, 5-8; reverse, 9-12; return, 13-16.

2.	Repeat 1, 1-16.

3.	Stride left backward and swing arms sideupward to crossed position overhead, 1-4; kneel on left knee and circle arms outward to crossed position front of chest, 5-8; reverse, 9-12; return, 13-16.

4.	Stride right backward and swing arms sideupward to crossed position overhead, 1-4; kneel on right knee and circle arms outward to crossed position front of chest, 5-8; reverse, 9-12; 1 1-2 arm circle outward, finish with arms at side, 13-16.

“THE NATION’S PRIDE”

A visual presentation of the national shield.

In June, 1926 in connection with the Sesqui-Centennial Celebration in Philadelphia, the Philadelphia Public Schools gave a patriotic demonstration at the Stadium. It consisted of a number of drills and dances by various groups, costumed in the national colors. As a finale the groups were so placed as to form a large United States shield. The shield was 175 ft. x 370 ft. There were about 500 children in the producton.

This forming of the shield can be done as a patriotic demonstration either by itself or as a finale to a larger display. It can be done on a large scale, or the number may be reduced and the same effect obtained.

The completed shield consists of a blue field with thirteen white stars, and thirteen stripes, seven red and six white, as per diagram. A fringe of khaki color outlines the shield and forms the line below the blue field.

The first group to march on the field is the one which later forms the fringe of the shield. This group is divided into the honor guard and marchers. The honor guard precedes the march-

Digitized by vlOO^ 1C
72

NOTE. The plan, as indicated, should be marked plainly on the field so as to enable the groups to find their places easily.

ers on the field and stands at attention along the sides of the field while the marchers, divided into squads of 16, march on the field and take positions to perform the “marching drill” to “Stars and Stripes Forever”. (See page 75.) After the drill the honor guard moves to a position across the back of the field and the marchers replace them at the sides. These groups sit down and remain in these positions during the other numbers.

The second group forms the stars. It consists of dancers in white. They come on the field and take places around 13 maypoles and dance “Bluff King Hal” (see page 76). After the dance they close in and sit down around the poles.

The third group consists of girls dressed in flag blue. This group dances “Le Secret” (see page 78). For the dance it will be necessary to use the entire field front of the maypoles. After the dance they face about and fill in the blue field of the shield, between the maypoles.

The fourth group is a group of boys in white suits. They march down to form the white stripes and open ranks for the “Athletic Drill” (see page 80). After the drill they close ranks and sit down close together.

Digitized by

74

The fifth group consists of girls dressed in flag red. They march down to form the red stripes and in this position do two dances, the “Ribbon Dance” and "Sweet Kate” (page 84).

After this last dance all stand m place while the boys in khaki close in and form the outline of the shield.

Finale

For the finale the band plays “Yankee Doodle” (verse and chorus played three times.) The boys in khaki stand at attention.

A. The maypole girls unfold large white muslin stars and dance around the maypoles with them using the following steps:

1.	8 walking steps in a circle counter-clockwise, 1-8; repeat opposite 9-16.

2.	Facing pole, 4 glides right sideward, 1-4; 4 glides left sideward, 5-8; repeat right, 9-12; repeat left, 13-16.

(Note: This is to be done three (3) times.) ,

• B. The girls in blue perform steps as follows:

Part I

1.	Two glides left sideward (arms sideward), step left and curtsey (right arm forward), 1-4.

2.	Two glides right sideward (arms sideward) step right and curtsey (left arm forward), 5-8.

3.	Balance hop left forward (right arm overhead, left arm sideward), 1-2; balance hop right forward (left arm overhead, right arm sideward), 3-4; three steps backward (arms sideward), place right foot forward (right arm forward) 5-8.

Part II

1.	Three step turn right and place left foot forward (arms sideward, forward, sideward, and left arm forward), 1-4.

2.	Three step turn left and place right foot forward (arms sideward, forward, sideward, and right arm forward), 5-8.

3.	Swing hop right sideward (right arm sideward, left arm forward), 1-2. Swing hop left sideward (left arm sideward, right arm forward), 3-4.

4.	Swing hop right (right arm sideward, left arm forward), 5-6: step left and close feet (arms sideward), 7-8.

, The steps are to be done 3 times.

C. The boys in white execute the following movements:

Part I (16 counts)

;	1. Jump to side stride and raise arms foreupward, 1-2; bend

trunk foredownward and swing arms downward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

j 2. Odd files three steps forward and close, and three steps packward and close; while even files three steps backward and

e

dose, then three steps forward and close, 1-8.

Digitized by * kjOOgl
75

Part II (16 counts)

A.	1. Facing left, jump to side stride, raising arms sideward, 1-2; return, 3-4;

2. Repeat 1, opposite, 5-8.

B.	Repeat A, 1-8.

(Note: These movements are to be done three (3) times.)

D. The girls in red perform steps as follows:

Part I

1.	Balance hop left forward (right arm' overhead, left arm sideward), 1-2; swing hop right backward (right arm sideward, ’ left arm forward), 3-4.

2.	Repeat 1, 5-8.

3.	Odd files three steps forward (arms sideward), and place right foot forward (right arm forward), 1-4; three steps backward (arms sideward), and place left foot forward (left arm forward), 5-8; while even files move in the opposite direction.

Part II

1.	Facing left,'balance hop left forward (right arm overhead, left arm sideward), facing front two steps in .place—right, left— (arms sideward), 1-4.

2.	Facing right, balance hop right forward (left arm overhead, right arm sideward),, facing front two steps in place—left, right—(arms sideward), 5-8.

3.	Repeat 1, 1-4.

4.	Repeat 2, 5-8.

These steps are to be done 3 times.

After the finale, the groups march off to a patriotic medley, marching so that the red, white and blue colors follow one another in succession.

A MARCHING DRILL FOR BOYS

Formation: The marching squads consist of 16 pupils arranged in a column of four front ranks of four pupils each as nearly the same size as possible.

Music: “Stars and Stripes Forever” Sousa.. Victor Record 35,389.

Part I

A.	a. The ranks 1-4 wheel left and 4 steps forward ... 8 counts

b,	c, d. Repeat a. three times...............  24	points

B.	Repeat Part I A, but wheel right.................32	counts

C.	Ranks 1 and 3 repeat Part I A while ranks 2

and 4 repeat Part I B ..........................32	counts

D.	Ranks 1 and 3 repeat Part I B while ranks 2

and 4 repeat Part I A ..........................32	counts

Part II

A. a. The ranks 1-4 wheel left and 4 steps forward .... 8 counts b. The ranks 4 steps forward and 1-4 wheel left.... 8 counts

Digitized by * ^ooQie
76

c.	and d. Repeat a and b.......................16	counts

B.	Repeat Part II A, but wheel right instead of

left .......................................32	counts

Part III (Formation of the Cross)

A. Rank 1, complete wheel left.

Rank 2, four steps forward and 3-4 wheel left

Rank 3, eight steps forward and 1-2 wheel left

Rank 4, twelve steps forward and 1-4 wheel left 16 counts

B.	The	cross takes a complete wheel left........16	counts

C.	The	ranks take a complete wheel right ......16	counts

Part IV

A.	The	cross takes a complete wheel left........16	counts

B.	Ranks take a complete wheel right ......... 16	counts

C.	Ranks take 1-4 wheel left and 4 steps forward

repeat three times .........................32	counts

Part V

A.	The	cross takes a complete wheel left........16	counts

B.	The	ranks take a complete wheel right ......16	counts

C.	Rank 1, twelve steps forward and 1-4 wheel left Rank 2, 1-4 wheel left, 8 steps forward, 1-4 wheel left.

Rank 3, 1-2 wheel left, 4 steps forward, 1-4 wheel left.

Rank 4, full wheel left .....................16	counts

Part VI

A.	a. Ranks 1 and 3, 1-4 wheel left forward and 4

steps in place, while ranks 2 and 4 take 1-4

wheel right forward and 4 steps in place..... 8	counts

b.	Ranks 1 and 3 take 1-4 wheel left backward and 4 steps in place, while ranks 2 and 4 take 1-4

wheel right backward and 4 steps in place ... 8	counts

c.	Ranks 1 and 3 take 1-4 wheel left backward and 4 steps in place, while ranks 2 and 4 take 1-4

wheel right backward and 4 steps in place ... 8	counts

d.	Ranks 1 and 3 take 1-4 wheel left forward and 4 steps in place, while Ranks 2 and 4 take 1-4

wheel right forward and 4 steps in place...... 8 counts

B.	a. Four steps backward and 4 steps in place .... 8	counts

b.	1-4 wheel right, 4 ste^s in place........... 8	counts

c.	Full wheel left and finish with salute on last

count .......................................16	counts

A MAY POLE DANCE

Bluff King Hal Victor Record 17,087 Formation: Twenty girls in a double circle, left sides toward center around each pole. Partner on the left is “One” partner on the right is “Two”. Couples are numbered 1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3, 4, etc.

Digitized by
77

Music: Introduction of four measures. Three parts A, Bf C, of eight measures each. On the record these parts are played six times (2 counts to a measure).

Introduction

With inner hands joined shoulder high, all stand with left foot pointed forward. Hold position through 4 measures of introduction, 1-8.

Part I

A.	Beginning left, 12 skip steps around pole (2 steps to a measure), 1-12.

With 4 skip steps, couples swing in, facing pole, forming single circle, joining hands, 13-16.

B.	Beginning left, advance toward pole with four skip steps, raising arms forward and upward, 1-4.

Same, moving backward, lowering arms, 5-8.

Repeat above four measures, 9-16.

C.	Partners face, join right hands and turn with 16 skip steps. Finish with “Ones” on the inside with backs to pole, 1-16.

Part II

A.	Beginning left, heel-and-toe polka sideward; repeat right, left, right, 1-16.

B.	Join right hands and turn partner with 8 polkas. On the last polka swing into a single circle, facing pole with hands joined, 1-16.

C.	Beginning left, 16 skip steps around pole, counter-clockwise, 1-16.

Part III

A.	Join right hands and turn partner with 16 skipping steps, finish facing partner, in single circle, 1-16.

B.	Ones kneel and Twos take 8 skipping steps around them,

1-8.

Repeat, Twos kneeling, 9-16.

C.	Repeat A, 1-16.

Part IV

A.	Same as B of Part I, 1-16.

B.	and C. With 4 skip steps all No. 1 couples advance toward

pole and grasp ribbons with right hands, 1-4.

With skip steps return to place and face partner, left toe pointed forward, Ones turned slightly toward the pole, Twos away, 5-8.

No. 2 couples repeat same, 9-16.

No. 3 couples repeat same, 1-8.

No. 4 couples repeat same, 9-16.

Part V

Winding pole. Hold position for 4 measures, 1-8. Beginning left, with 40 skip steps, Twos move clockwise, Ones counter-clockwise. Make “Grand Chain,” partners passing right shoulders first, (finish facing partner on 48th count).	rAr,,[p

Digitized by VjOOQ 1C
78 Part VI

Face center. With 4 skip steps, advance to pole, dropping

ribbons, 1-4.	.

All join hands and with 4 skip steps move back from pole,

5-8.

Advance and retire again, 9-16.

Beginning left, 8 skip steps around pole, counter-clockwise,

1-8.

Repeat, clockwise, 9-16.

With 4 skip steps, advance to pole, 1-4.

With 4 skip steps, move back from pole, 5-8.

Advance and retire again, 9-16.

A DANCE FOR GIRLS

Le Secret—Gautier Victor Record 17689

Formation: The dancers are formed in groups of 6, facing front, hands joined. The groups will be in front column formation, 9 feet apart.

Introduction (4 counts)

Turn slightly toward right and place left foot obliquely right forward in preparation.

Part I (32 counts)

A.	1. Four skip change steps beginning left, the group moving

to the right. On first skip change step look to left, on second bend trunk forward, on third look to left, and on fourth bend forward, 1-8,

2.	Glide balance step left forward, swinging joined hands obliquely fore-side-upward, 1-2.

3.	Three small running steps backward, arms sideward, dropping hands, 3-4.

4.	Make a full turn left in two steps, arms waving downward, inward, and outward to position obliquely side-downward, 5-6.

5.	One step left sideward with arms sideward and place right foot obliquely left forward, turning trunk to slightly left, waving right arm obliquely forward, 7-8.

B.	Repeat A to opposite side, 1-16.

Part II (32 counts)

A.	1. Glide balance hop left forward, waving both arms fore-

upward, 1-2.

2.	Swing hop right backward, waving arms down and back,

8-4.

3.	4-4 turn left with small running steps, wave left arm across body and from position obliquely sidedownward right, wave arms to open position obliquely sidedownward, 5-8.

B.	Repeat A beginning right forward, 1-8.

C.	Numbers 1 and 2, 3 and 4, 5 and 6, joining right hands, Repeat A running in a circle, with free arm sideward, 1-8.

Digitized by VjUUvIL
D.

A.

B.

A.

B.

C.

D.

A.

B.

C.

D.

79

Partners join left hands and beginning with right foot repeat C, (each back of place), 1-8.

Part III (32 counts)

Same as Part I forming circle with skip change steps, 1-16.

Same as A in opposite direction and return to place with running steps backward, turn and step and point, 1-16.

Part IV (32 counts)

1.	Glide balance hop obliquely left fprward, waving right arm overhead, left arm sideward, 1-2,

2.	Step back right and point left obliquely forward, waving left arm obliquely forward and right sideward, 3-4.

3.	Two glides left sideward, arms sideward, 5-6.

4.	Step and deep curtsey left, waving right arm forward, 7-8 Same to opposite side, 1-8.

Repeat A, 1-8.

Repeat B, 1-8.

Part V ( 32 counts)

1.	Numbers 2, 4, and 6 clap 3 times turning slightly to left, 1-2.

2.	Numbers 1, 3, and 5 run in 3 steps to other side of partner, 3-4.

3.	With both hands joined, partners in 8 running steps swing around in 4-4 turn left, 5-8.

Repeat A, numbers 2, 4 and 6 clapping to right 3 times Numbers 1, 3, and 5 returning to place with 3 running steps and 4-4 turn is taken to the right, 1-8.

Repeat A, 1-8.

Repeat B, 1-8.

Part VI (32 counts)

Repeat Part IV

Part VII (32 counts)

Repeat Part 1.

Part VIII (10 counts)

Polka obliquely forward left, 1-2; right, 3-4; left, 5-6; right, 7-8.

Step to left, place right foot crossed in rear, left arm sideward, right overhead (hold this pose), 9-10.

(In polka left, left arm sideward and wave right arm forward. In polka right, right arm sideward and wave left arm forward)

Digitized by vjjOOQLC
80

FREE EXERCISES FOR BOYS

Boys are formed in ranks of five, arranged with the tallest boy in the center. They march forward in closed ranks, and, upon signal, open ranks left sideward in 16 counts.

Music: "The National Game”—March, Sousa. Victor Record No. 19,741.

Note: The record is to be played through twice.

Division I

Introduction (16 counts)

Stand at attention.

Part I (64 counts)

1.	(Standing Broad Jump)

Face left, raise arms obliquely foreupward, and rise on toes, 1-4; bend knees, swing arms down and back, 5-8; jump forward (4 ft.) landing on toes with knees bent and arms forward,

9-12; return to fundamental position, facing front immediately, 13-16.

2.	(Ball Throw Overhead)

Stride left sideward, lower trunk and arms forward (as if grasping ball), 1-4; raise trunk and swing arms foreupward, bending trunk slightly backward (ball overhead), 5-8; vigorously move arms to obliquely foreupward position, palms front (throwing ball), 9-12; return to fundamental position, 13-16.

3.	Repeat 1, but to the right, 1-16.

4.	Repeat 2, but stride right sideward, 1-16.

Part II (64 counts)

1. (Sprinting on a square left)

“On your mark,” right knee on the ground, 1-4; “get set,” 5-8; four running steps forward, 9-12; face left and four running steps in place, 13-16.

2, 3, 4, Repeat 1 three times (48 counts)

Part III (64 counts)

1.	(Pitching—hand as if grasping baseball)

Raise right arm sideward and immediately one and three-quarter right arm circles outward, hands meeting overhead, (“wind up”), 1-4; raise left knee high, bring hands down towards right hip, 5-8; with a quarter turn left, lunge left forward and throw ball forward, swinging left arm backward, 9-12; return to fundamental position, 13-16.

2.	(Batting—hands as if grasping baseball bat)

Stride left sideward, bend slightly forward, touching bat on home plate twice, 1-4; bend right knee, swing bat over right shoulder, 5-8; change knee bend and strike forward with bat, the body making a quarter turn left (the bat shoulder high in front) 9-12; return to fundamental position, facing front, 13-16.

3. Repeat 1, opposite, 1-16.

4. Repeat 2, opposite, 1-16.
81

Part IV (48 counts)

1.	(Boxing)

Stride left sideward slightly bending both knees, the bent right arm extended forward, the left arm bent over pit of stomach, (“on guard”) 1-4; attack left, 5-8; assume “on guard” position, and 4 glides left sideward (“break ground”) 9-12, four glides right sideward (“advance”) 13-16.

2.	Stride right sideward slightly bending both knees, extend the bent left arm forward, the right arm bent over pit of stomach, 1-4; attack right, 5-8; assume “on guard” position and take 4 glides right sideward (“break ground”) 9-12; four glides left sideward (“advance”) 13-16.

3.	Attack right, 1-2; attack left, 3-4; attack right, 5-6; attack left, 7-8; attack right, 9-10; attack left, 11-12; return to fundamental position, 13-16.

(NOTE: Attack right means to vigorously extend the right arm forward, slightly bending the trunk forward and turning the right shoulder forward (punching) and bringing the bent left arm over the pit of the stomach (guarding). Attack left means the opposite movements.)

Part V (32 counts)

1.	(Catching Ground Ball and Throwing)

Stride left sideward and place hands on knees, 1-4; bend left knee, clap hands to catch ball outside left knee, 5-8; lunge obliquely right forward with the left foot, throwing the ball in the same direction with right hand, 9-12; return to fundamental position, 13-16.

2.	(Running, catching high ball and tagging)

• Four running steps forward, beginning left, 1-4; jump upward, clasp hands to catch ball overhead, landing with slight knee bend, 5-8; lunge right sideward, bend trunk right sideward and tag with “ball” in right hand, 9-12; return to fundamental position, 13-16.

Part VI (48 counts)

Repeat Part IV, 1-48.

Part VII (32 counts)

1.	Repeat 1 of Part V, 1-16.

2.	Repeat 2 of Part V, but running steps backward instead of forward, 1-16.

Division 2

Introduction (16 counts)

Stand at attention.

Part I (64 counts)

1.	(Running Broad Jump)

Face left and 4 running steps in place, 1-4; four running steps forward, 5-8; jump forward, landing on toes with knees bent and arms forward, 9-12; return to fundamental position, facing front, 13-16. (The jump should cover a distance of about 4 feet‘)

Digitized by oOOy 1C
82

2.	(Ball Throw Free Style)

Bend knees half deep, slightly lower trunk forward, hands between feet (as though grasping ball), 1-4; lunge right backward, turn trunk right, right arm obliquely sidedownward and left arm following as though helping to hold ball, 5-8; change knee bend, turn trunk forward and vigorously swing the extended right arm to an obliquely foreupward position, the left arm swinging around and backward, 9-12; return to fundamental position 13-16.

3.	Repeat 1, to the right, 1-16.

4.	Repeat 2, opposite, 1-16.

Part II (64 counts)

(Sprinting on Square Right).

Repeat Part II of Division I, but to the right, 1-64.

Part III (64 counts)

(Baseball Activities)

Repeat Part III of Division I, 1-64.

Part IV (48 counts)

1. March to position for pyramids, 1-4; prepare for first grouping, 5-8; hold first grouping, 9-16.



X



1 «

2.	Assume fundamental position, 1-4; prepare for second grouping, 5-8; hold second grouping, 9-16.

3.	Assume fundamental position, 1-4; march to original places, 5-8.

4.	Bend knees deeply and place hands on floor (squat stand), 1-2; extend legs backward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

Part V (32 counts)

(Baseball Activities)

Repeat Part V of Division 1, 1-32.

Part VI (48 counts)

(Stunts)

Repeat Part IV, 1-48.

Part VII (32 counts)

(Baseball Activities)

Repeat Part VII of Division 1, 1-32.

Digitized by

Google

a
83

TWO FOLK DANCES FOR GIRLS

Two dances are to be done by the same group. The formation is a column of couples in sets of four couples.

“Sweet Kate” will be done first, followed by the “Ribbon Dance”.

A. Sweet Kate Victor Record 18,004.

No introduction—Dance is played once.

Polka rhythm (2 counts to a measure).

Part I (24 measures)

A.	Right hands grasped. Beginning with outer foot, three small running steps forward and close, 1-4.

Same backward, 5-8.

Repeat above 4 measures, 9-16.

B.	Facing partner, swing hop left, striking right feet, 1-2, Same opposite, 3-4.

Clap own hands, 5; right hands, 6; own hands, 7; left hands, 8.

Raise hands, fists clenched in front of chest and circle forward one with the other as though winding wool, 9; hold up forefinger of right hand, 10.

Repeat, holding up forefinger of left hand, 11-12. With four small running steps make a whole turn right, 13-16.

Repeat above 8 measures, 1-16.

Part II (24 measures)

A.	Beginning right, each takes four running steps forward, passing partner, left shoulder to left shoulder. Turn inward toward partner on third and fourth counts, 1-4. Repeat, passing right shoulder to right shoulder, returning to places, 5-8.

Repeat above 4 measures, 9-16.

B.	Same as B of Part I, 1-32.

Part III (24 measures)

A.	Beginning right, with running steps, partners linking right arms, make a whole turn and with running steps backward, return to places, 1-8.

Repeat, linking left arms, 9-16.

B.	Same as B of Part I, finishing with a curtsy, 1-32.

B. Ribbon Dance Victor Record 17,329

Formation: Eight girls in a column of twos. These on the left are Ones, those on the right are Twos. In each couple the partners hold a ribbon between them, each holding it in the right hand, about 6 inches from the end. The ribbon is 1 3-4 yards long and 8 inches wide.

Music: 2-4 rhythm, two counts to a measure.

Introduction (4 measures and chord)

The odd couples face the rear, and the even couples face front and grasp ribbons.
84

Part I (8 measures)

With four walking steps, the couples who are facing each other change places, the even couples passing between the odd couples, under their ribbons, 1-4.

All face about without releasing ribbons and return to places with four walking steps, this time the odd couples passing between the even couples, under their ribbons, 5-8.

Repeat the above four measures. Finish facing front, 1-8.

Part II (8 measures)

All Twos release ribbons and (with the exception of the last couple, who face each other and stand still, holding their ribbon high) partners separate to the right and left, and skip toward the back, Ones waving ribbons, 1-8.

Partners meet at the back, (Twos taking their ends of ribbons) and skip under the arch and up to places, finishing with all partners facing each other, holding ribbons high, 1-8.

Part III (8 measures)

The first couple glide down the center under the ribbons and take their places at the other end, raising their ribbons in line with the others, 1-8,

Partners circle clockwise with eight walking steps, holding ribbons high, returning to places, 1-8.

NOTE: The entire dance is done 8 times.

HOBBY HORSE

(Rhythm play by Mathias H. Mackery, Ass’t. Supervisor of Phys. Educ.,

Newark, N. J.)

Formation:	In the gymnasium—Open order.

In the class room—children stand in the aisle to the right of the seat, facing forward.

Note: This song play is suitable for the lower primary grades.

First Part

(Imitate holding reins in the left hand and a whip in the right)

“Hop, Hop. Hop” Action: Three hops on both feet.

“Nimble as a top” Action: Gallop Gallop Gallop. (This gallop step is performed by raising the right knee high, by leaping from the left foot on to the right quickly, followed by replacing the left. This action is done in place (up left, up right, down left, down right)

“Hop, hop, hop, Nimble as a top” Repeat the above movements.

“Where 'tis smooth” Polka sideward ’tis stony” Polka sideward left.

Digitized

right “And where

by Google
85

"Trudge along my little pony” Leap right, leap left, leap right, leap left.

“Hop” Step right. "Hop” hop on right, swing left "Hop” step left. “Hop” hop on left, swing right. “Hop” leap and land on both feet.

"Nimble as a top” Gallop, gallop, gallop.

BOUT HOIS

i JHT r\ rt r		r -n			I
I lop* *ap. hop, hop, hkt im.Uki cart,taka I JU flt&N don't run * -	hop*  ear*.  *»y.	-F—P—•	■ —  Ml* • felo as a Suro • - mu^ •*'» Ut - tit po - ny		top.  those.  gay.	
	•	•	^3-		
					—
					

Second Part

“Whoa, whoa, whoa!” Action Bend trunk backward with each “Whoa” and pull on the reins.

“Oh, how fast you go” Gallop, gallop, gallop. (At the same time imitate patting the neck of the horse with the right hand.)

“Whoa, whoa, whoa, above movements.

Oh, how fast you go.” Repeat the

Digitized by

Google
86

“Very well, my” Polka sideward right, “little pony” Polka sideward left.

“Safe’s our” Glide left forward, “jaunt tho” glide left forward, “rough and” glide left forward, “stony” glide left forward.

“Take care” Bend trunk forward slightly “take care” bend over further “take care” bend over still further.

“Sure e-” Paw left, “nough we’re” paw left, “there” paw left.

Third Part

“Here, here, here” Action: Nod head forward three times.

“Yes, my pony dear” Imitate petting the horse by rubbing its neck three times.

“Here, here, here. Yes, my pony dear” Repeat the above actions.

“Now with oats” Polka sideward right, “and hay I’ll treat you” polka sideward left. (Imitate handing pony a handful of hay)

“And with smiles will ever greet you” Hands on hips, march four steps in place (at same time smile and bend forward slightly)

“Please don’t run away” Shake right finger three times.

“Little” step right sideward, “pony” cross left behind right, “gay”, imitate leaning against pony.

CIRCLE BATTLEBALL

B. E. Wiggins, Pubiic Schools, Columbus, 0.

1.	Rules of the game. Use a cage ball or other inflated ball equally as large. A human target may be used as a substitute for the large center ball.

2.	Playing area and divisions:	(a) Place the ball within

the circle measuring 4 feet in diameter (b) draw a circle the diameter of which shall be 20 feet (c) draw a third circle, the diameter of which shall be 40 feet (see diagram). The radius of each of the three circles shall be measured from the center of the 4 foot circle.

3.	Players. Any available number from 15 to 25 on each team may be used. (Boys vs. boys; girls vs. girls.)

4.	The object of the game is for the attacking side, in possession of 4 basketballs or volleyballs, and whose numbers shall remain outside of the outer or 40 foot circle, to hit the large ball in the center circle, or, to cause any member of the defending side, who are in the 20 foot circle, to touch the large ball. After each volley, the ball or balls shall be returned to the attacking side.

5. Penalties. 1. Whenever the large ball is hit by a thrown ball, or touched by a defending member, the defending side shall lose one or more players, as the case may be and they

Digitized by Google
87

shall immediately retire from the game. 2. A defending member who steps over the line of the 20 ft. circle shall retire from the game (half). 3. An attacking member who steps over the line of the 40 foot circle shall retire from the game. 4. Any player on either side who kicks the ball (any one of those used) shall be retired permanently from the game. The ball may be checked, caught or blocked with any part of the body, the feet excepted, if in motion.

6.	Players on the offensive or defensive sides may move about at will so long as they do not overstep the respective boundary lines. (See penalties 2 and 3.) All boundary lines should be clearly marked.

7.	Time of halves and scoring. The halves shall be 5, 8 or 10 minutes in length, according to conditions. Quarters may also be used. Scoring. The number of players remaining within the 20 foot circle, (defenders) at the expiration of the playing period shall determine the score, i. e., one (1) point for each player.

8.	Inflated balls only should be used in this game. Boys and girls should not be permitted to oppose each other. The reason is obvious.

A

<

Digitized by

Google
88

FROM FOREIGN PERIODICALS

William A. Stecher

According to Dr. F. A. Schmidt, Bonn, there is a gradual increase in Germany in the number of children with bodily deficiencies. Everywhere the physical backwardness of children born during and immediately after the war is becoming more noticeable. Schmidt says that in 1921 the percentage was 11.2, in 1922, 14.1 per cent, and in 1923, 21.7 per cent. Statistics for later years are not available at present, but the above figures show that Germany has many other problems beside reparation payments.

An interesting sidelight on military preparedness of European nations may be had from the following law regulating the pre-military training of young men in Czecho-Slovakia promulgated by its minister of war.

Compulsory military training begins on January first of the year in which a young man enters his 18th year. It ends when a young man enters the army, or on the 31st of December of the year when he becomes 22 years old. (This means five years of pre-military training for such who do not enter the army earlier.)

This training is given on 36 half days, as a rule on Saturday or Sunday afternoons, by officers, non-commissioned officers, or by other competent military persons.

Those who do not pass the prescribed examinations during this pre-military training must remain in the army two months longer. Arrest and fines await those who try to escape this pre-military training.

Cities and towns are required to furnish the fields necessary for the training. To acquire this they are given the right of expropriation.

Reorganization of the Central Institute of Gymnastics in Sweden:	In	August,	1926	a	special	commission	of three, appoint-

ed Dec. 31, 1923, reported upon the reorganization, which, from magazine reports, contemplates the following:

There shall be three groups of students: a) those who are to teach in schools, b) those who are to teach in military schools, c) those who are to be teachers of orthopedic gymnastics. While the fundamental instruction is to be given to the three groups at the same time, separate instruction is to be given to each group, based upon its special requirements. All groups are to receive instruction in play and sports.

The teaching corps is to be organized as follows:

1) A rector who at the same time is director of physical education over all schools in the kingdom.

Digitized by

Google
89

2)	A professor of Physiology and the Hygiene of Physical Education.

3)	An assistant teacher in Physiology and Anatomy.

4)	For physical education: 1 principal, 2 men and 2 women teachers.

5)	For play and sport: 1 principal, 1 teacher and 1 teacher for military gymnastics and sport.

6)	For medical gymnastics: 1 principal, 1 teacher, 2 women teachers, 1 physician, 1 assistant physician, and 1 extraordinary woman teacher.

In addition to the above regular appointees such additional part time teachers as become necessary may be appointed. 222,900 crowns are budgeted for the yearly expenses.

The training course is reduced from three to two years, but the length of the terms is increased. The first term lasts 18 weeks, and the second term 22 weeks. This, during the two years, means an increase of 822 hours over the time now spent in two years. Compared with the number of hours now spent in three years there will be a reduction of 276 hours in each year. It was the conviction of the commission that this loss counld easily be counterbalanced by better instruction methods.

The new regulations will be partly introduced during the school year 1928-29, while the complete re-organization is to be accomplished during the year 1930-31.

It is interesting to note that while there is a regular physical society in Dresden, Germany, a “Teacher Sportsclub” was organized there last year by men teachers whose object it is to have all teachers keep physically fit by active participation in all kinds of sports. The new society hopes also to help the older association improve the quality of physical training work in the public schools of the city.

The 100th anniversary of the death of Pestalozzi in February of this year brought forth many articles dealing with the work of this great Swiss. The following collection of facts and writings should be of interest to readers of Mind and Body.

In an article on “Law and Infanticide” he goes into the psychological and social causes for such actions and after speaking of contra-indicated measures, he closes with an appeal for sensible sexual enlightenment. In the article he says that pride and reverence for one’s own person are the best safeguards against sensual outcroppings and vulgarities. Games demanding courage are a great means for instilling youthful pride.

In “How Gertrude teaches her children” he develops his ideas of physical education and shows that these should be developed from the natural forms of movement: striking, carrying, throwing, thrusting, pulling, turning, wrestling, etc.

In a report upon his school at Burgdorf (a boarding school) we read, that “even during their recreation periods the pupils

Digitized by

Google
90

are under supervision. These hours are filled with physical training, the teachers needing this as much as the pupils. Vaulting, batting the ball, swimming, hiking, wrestling, everything is practiced by pupils and teachers.”

In speaking of methods, this old teacher appears to have been very much up to date, for he says: “the results of your exercises depend upon the joy they create and upon the lively manner in which they follow one another. This continuity must not be interrupted by an intrusion of pedantic details. When you once have set in motion the stream of joy-giving activity, form and exactness will follow.”

His letters to an Englishman were published under the following title. “Letters on Early Education. Addressed to J. P. Greaves, Esq. by Pestalozzi. Translated from the German Manuscript. With a Memoir of Pestalozzi.” London. Sherwood, 1827.

♦-------------------------------------------------------------

College Athletics And Health. To physical exercise has been assigned the role of both the cure and the cause of various bodily ills. It should be noted, however, that fitness is, or should be, a requisite for participation in athletics, particularly of the severely competitive sort, such as college games. William James* expressed the hope that here in America more and more the ideal of the well trained and vigorous body might be maintained neck and neck with that of the well trained mind as the coequal halves of the higher education for men and women alike. Exercise and competitive athletics are, however, not quite synonymous. One may lead to overdoing; in any event, it often calls for the utmost that strength can marshal.

The absence of the educational point of view in the management of school and college athletics and the emphasis on the professional, spectacular and exhibitive elements have frequently been deplored.** There is little doubt that wholesome changes are being instituted extensively in our American institutions. Participation in athletic sport now has a sufficiently long history in the United States to permit a careful study of possible harmful influence on the health of the college man. It should presently be simple to ascertain whether the claims of "overstrain” and increased death rates from degenerative diseases in former athletes are in any degree warranted. A decisive answer is essential for any justifiable program of college athletics in the future.

‘James, William:	Talks to Teachers on Psychology New York, Henry

Holt & Co., 1916, p. 205.

“Williams, J. F.: Personal Hjgiene Applied, ed. 2, Philadelphia, W. B. Sanders Company, 1925, p. 25.

P

iHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

E

Digitized by

Google
91

A preliminary analysis of mortality among athletes and other graduates of a large university has recently been undertaken by Greenway and Hiscock.*** They preface their report with the comment that for several reasons it is not surprising that the results of these longevity studies have given evidence favorable to the athlete, for he is a highly selected person. The college body as a whole represents a group selected from different communities. Students who successfully cope with the course of study and the stress of college activities and later graduate are even more highly selected. The men who qualify physically and otherwise for a varsity team are subject to still further medical selection throughout their course. Another factor of immense importance in these studies is the basis of comparison. Comparison between college athletes and the general population, or even insured groups, may be exceedingly misleading unless standard tables representing groups of fairly similar status are utilized. Even data for average young men of corresponding ages who are accepted for life insurance must be used with extreme caution. Standards developed some years ago would obviously give the college man of recent years an unfair advantage because of the gratifying extension of the life span of the general population.

The Yale observations have been directed to determine on a fairly large scale the facts regarding the mortality of the college men who participate most actively in major sports in compari-ison with their associates who are not varsity men. They lead to the conclusion that the life expectancy of college graduates is somewhat higher or more favorable than that of the average young man accepted for life insurance. So far as the figures are reliable for the age groups concerned, there is no evidence to indicate injuries to the health of students by athletic sports conducted under such supervision as is enforced at Yale. It would appear that men of the type who make athletic leaders are likely to expose themselves, in war and in peace, to excesses of physical injury that are escaped by their less active associates. To secure dependable data with respect to the older age periods when degenerative diseases are more common will call for extensive statistics secured on a much more elaborate scale. Such an investigation on the longevity of college athletes is now contemplated under the auspices of a number of national organizations interested in student health.

***Greenway, J. C., and Hiscock, I. V.: Mortality Among Yale Men, Yale Alumni Weekly 35: 1CS6 (June 11) 1926.

Perfumed Ventilation for the Modern Hospital.—In line with the elimination of white in the modern hospital, by the substitution of colors of well-known therapeutic value, such as grays, green and pink, comes the recommendation that the ventilating system should be used to spread a delicate perfume

Digitized by VjUUvLL
92

to destroy the odors of various drugs, which form the well-known “hospital smell.”

“Since the hospital is no longer the dreaded and forbidding establishment of former days,” says the American Hospital Association, “since white walls are disappearing behind coatings of softer grays, green and even pink, for the therapeutic value of color, since many austere hospital rooms have become boudoirs with indirect lighting and with iron beds camouflaged into mahogany—why not wholesome, sweet scents to banish any possible presence of carbolic, chloroform or ether odor in the atmosphere? The condition is that the delicate fragrances hovering about the immaculate presence of a nurse must be free from criticism.”

This is urged as particularly advisable in old hospitals which cannot afford to install expensive ventilating systems nor to rebuild. The question is asked, “Why cannot the ordinary ventilating system that cleans and cools the air, waft through the hospital a pleasing fragance devoid of possible personal significance?”

Why limit this to hospitals? We know of school buildings and other places where groups of people congregate having vari-ious standards of personal hygiene, that might consider such measures. (Editor.)

BOOK REVIEWS

“Swimming Chart No. 1” Breast Stroke. An aid to learning the correct movements by practice on land—Elizabeth

C.	Terry.

The chart consists of a series of cuts illustrating companion exercises for class work in breast stroke movements. The cuts are supplemented by concise directions for correct positions on small stools or boxes.

The chart is well planned and is accompanied by a sheet of instruction outlining the work.

Exception may be taken to the following statements— “Children taught on these methods learn to swim after eight lessons in the- water.” “The movements must be practiced until they become automatic. Water work should then be carried out in a similar manner with handrail for support”.

It is doubtful whether the land exercises are of sufficient value to waste time on them, especially if eight lessons of water instruction is required following the land drills.

In Philadelphia a number of swimming teachers have demonstrated that these results (The teaching of the breast stroke in eight lessons) may be accomplished without the use of land drills.

Whether a land drill should precede instruction in the water is a question that must be answered by the individual teacher. Teachers using land exercises will find the chart very helpful.

Digitized by

Google
93

The chart is published by A. Brown and Sons, Ltd., 5 Farrington Ave., London, E. C. 4., England. It costs on stout paper with metal rims top and bottom 2-6 net. If mounted on calico, rollers, and varnished the cost is 4-6 net.

—George Slifer.

"Skipping Manual” by Olive M. Newmarch. Edited by Messrs. A. Brown and Sons, London. Price 2-8. 5” x 7 1-2”. Bound in cloth.

In this book Miss March has made rather a unique contribution. While the title, “Skipping Manual” does not indicate it, the book deals with the various lands of rope skipping. It contains all varieties of skipping, for class and individual, both simple and advanced.

Starting out with plain rope skipping, it gives all degrees of difficulty, including complicated combinations with dancing steps.

While the book presents much material for the teacher of gymnastics who occasionally uses this simple piece of apparatus in her program of work, we cannot agree with the author in all her claims for rope skipping. We are inclined to think one quarter of a lesson, as she suggests, is too much time to devote to this form of exercise.

Like all other books of this type, unless the reader is familiar with the steps or movements intended, the descriptions are rather difficult of interpretation. But there is undoubtedly much in the simpler forms described that will be useful, especially in recreation work.—Janet B. Walter.

88 PLAY RECIPES FOR HAPPY CHILDREN

Spring is here. And so are the time-honored children’s games which blossom on the sidewalks of New York and in the backyards of Centerville as soon as the first crocus does. Marbles, hopscotch, jack stones, kites, stilts, pushmobiles, tops, roller skating, mumble-de-peg! Lately towns and cities have been organizing these into tournaments and contests which give them added zest and allow every child to participate.

Directions for contests in these and other spring sports are described in “8 Successful Play Activities” a new hand book obtainable from the Playground and Recreation Association of America, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York City, price $.60. All of the activities have been tried in various communities and found of absorbing interest to youngsters. Many of them, such as birdhouse building, wagon day, doll villages, lantern parades and model boat racing give boys and girls an opportunity to show their creative ability. Such intriguing suggestions as kazoo bands, Circus Day, miniature golf courses, pet shows, soap sculpture and whistling contests are described in deatil.

Digitized by Google
94

The handbook has been designed to help playgrounds, schools, boys’ and girls’ clubs, Sunday*Schools and other institutions to turn youthful energies into happy and useful channels. It is illustrated with diagrams and layouts.

“Stadiums,” a study made by the Playground and Recreation Association of America. 12 pages, 8 by 11 inches. Price 35 cents. This is a study of college, university, high school private and municipal stadiums. Its headings are as follows: Name of school or city, date, managing authority, seating capacity, size, shape, construction, cost, method of securing, means of maintenance and uses.

Authorities contemplating the creation of small or large stadiums should be able to get valuable information from the pamphlet.

To be had from the Playground and Recreation Association, 3i5 Fourth Ave, New York City.

“Community Drama” prepared by the Playground and Recreation Association of America. Bound in cloth. Price $2.00. Published by The Century Company.

Teachers and social leaders who are interested in producing plays nd pageants will welcome this book with its practical suggestions. The first section contains much valuable information on lighting, customing, material and scenery, giving details of many helpful devices. Chapters on festivals, pageants and community drama give plans for their production and organization.

In the second part of the book, there are a number of programs for holiday or special day celebrations and selected lists of one-act plays, full-length plays, pageants and festivals with short descriptions of each to aid selection.—Janet B. Walter.

“A Text Book of Anatomy and Physiology” by Jesse Feiring Williams, M. D., Columbia University. Second edition, revised, 375 illustrations, 26 in colors. Published by W. B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia and London, 1926. Price $2.75, 5 1-2” x 8”, bound in cloth, 531 pages.

Dr. Williams has succeeded in keeping his splendid text in the front rank of the reference books for teachers of health education. He has added six illustrations and eight pages of subject matter to his last (1925) edition. The chapter on “The Endocrine System” has probably undergone the most revision. All the changes and additions have served to keep the book well abreast of the times.—H. L. C.

Digitized by kjOOQle
95

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT, CIRCULATION, ETC., Required by the Act of Congress of August 24, 1912, of MIND AND BODY, published monthly at New Ulm, Minn., for April 1, 1927.

STATE OF MINNESOTA,

County of Brown, ss.

Before me, a Notary Public in and for the State and county aforesaid, personally appeared Albert Steinhauser, who, having been duly affirmed according to law, deposes and says that he is one of the owners of MIND AND BODY and that the following is, to the best of his knowledge and belief, a true statement of the ownership, management, etc., of the aforesaid publication for the date shown in the above caption, required by tne Act of August 24, 1912, embodied in section 443, Postal Laws and Regulations.

1.	That the names and addresses of the publisher, editor, managing editor, and business managers are:

PUBLISHER:—Mind and Body Publishing Company, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITOR—Wm. A. Stecher, 114 Strathmore Rd. Brookline, Philadelphia, Pa.

MANAGING EDITOR:—Wm. A, Stecher, 114 Strathmore Rd. Brookline, Philadelphia, Pa.

BUSINESS MANAGERS:—A. Steinhauser, H. Payne Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.

2.	That the owners are:	Albert	Steinhauser,	New Ulm, Minn.; H.

Payne Steinhauser, New Ulm, Minn.

3.	That the known bondholders, mortgagees, and other security holders owning or holding 1 per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities are: NONE.

4.	That the two paragraphs next above, giving the names of the owners, stockholders, and security holders, if any, contain not only the list of stockholders and security holders as they appear upon the books of the company but also, in cases where the stockholder or security holder appears upon the books of the company as trustee or in any other fiduciary relation, the name of the oerson or corporation for whom such trustee is acting, is given; also that the said two Daragraphs contain statements embracing affiant’s full knowledge and belief as to the circumstances and conditions under which stockholders and security holders who do not appear upon the books of the company as trustees, hold stock and securities in a capacity other than that of a bona fide owner; and this affiant has no reason to believe that any other person, association, or corporation has any interest direct or indirect in the said stock, bonds, or other securities than as so stated by him.

ALBERT STEINHAUSER, Owner. Affirmed and subscribed before me this 30th day of March, 1927

JOHN H. WOEBKE, Notary Public, Brown County, Minn,

(My commission expires December 21, 1932.)

Digitized by * uoogie
Before you’decide'on'Uniforms] for this year’s'requirements be sure to inspect ourcomplete line. They are truly a bet-| ter class of 1 merchandise, n There is a decided satisfaction in knowing^]] your'classes are outfitted with PERFETEX —the bestjn'athletic clothing.