Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, cook co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, III.

Wm.StECHER, sec’y. of the technical committee or the n. a. gymnastic union, cor. 3ro a chestnut 8t»8, St.Louis,Mo. F. PFISTER, M. D., managing Editor, 760 Third 8t., MILWAUKEE, Wl8.

THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE WILL THROUGH PHYSICAL TRAINING.

By WILLIAM O. KROHN, Professor of Experimental Psychology, University of Illinois.—A Paper read at the Meeting of the Department of Physical Education of the N. E. A. at Milwaukee, July 1897.

NO subject in the domain of modern psychology is more difficult of treatment than that which is ordinarily indicated by the term volition. At the same time it must also be said that there is no subject of more importance, for the true understanding of the evolution of will power—the genetic history of will—is necessary in the most simple attempts at an analysis of personality, and no understanding or comprehension of the more purely intellectual ideas and moral concepts is possible without clear knowledge of the development of will. To employ an oft used figure we might say that, as in Greek mythology Eros was made one of the oldest and at the same time one of the youngest of the gods, so in psychology the will may, according to the point of view we take, be represented as the most primitive or as the most complex and derivative of all the mental products. If by will we mean only that power which manifests itself in action from deliberate choice alone, then we must maintain that there has already been a rather extensive development in the individual's mental life, for such will acts as are here signified can not exist in the lowest forms of the sentient consciousness. To understand the true nature of will it is absolutely necessary to give its genetic history, that is, we must go back to the primitive germ and trace it in its path of development from the unconscious to the conscious —from the most purely involuntary movements to those that are more refined and intricate as examples of deliberative choice.

Digitized by LjOOQle
-150-

Activity is a fundamental property of conscious life, and if any one of the elements of consciousness—feeling, knowing, willing,—is to be regarded as the original form of conscious life, it must be the will. The manifestations of the intellect and feeling never acquire their fullest significance, their deepest meaning, except when they serve as links in the chain that leads to action. Without education of the child’s will it is next to impossible to improve his mental, moral, or physical wellbeing in any respect.

We must do away with those narrow conceptions of the educative process and the limited range with respect to educational ideals that would effect its results by little semi-occasional accretions of knowledge. Education to be education at all must influence the whole personality and not a little segment. Education with all the artificial glamor that can be added unto it, with all its frills and furbelows, when reduced to its lowest terms, is nothing more nor less than the development of the capacities of self-direction and self-control, both of which are nothing more nor less than phases or attributes of the developed will. Are we in full sympathy with the broader pedagogical creed which maintains that education means nothing more nor less than to make the finest specimens of manhood and womanhood possible? To produce an individual rich in strength—going on from strength to strength—developing the child to its fullest maturity in ability and power ? Or are we more in sympathy with a narrow chested, anaemic creed, something like that * expressed in the following little piece of didactic lesson-making? It might be headed “The Educated Girl”:

See the little girl !

Is the little girl educated ?

The little girl isn’t a thing but educated.

The little girl has been to school during a series of years and learned to paint a hollyhock.

Why does the little girl spend so much time weeping ?

The little girl weeps because the hard, cruel, thoughtless world doesn’t match her hollyhock.

The term education as now used can no longer be identified with mere instruction. A broader meaning has been developed and the person who endeavors to maintain that learning is an end in and of itself rather than a means to an end soon succeeds in driving a team of horses through his own reasoning. Rather is it easier to believe with Rosenkranz that education consists “in that emancipation of vouth which puts him on his own feet.”

The quintessence of education lies in action along the lines that develop the power to do, discern, and think, and in the inhibition of those activities that would negative and offset the development of this capacity for beneficient action, clear discernment, and effective thought power. We are led to emphasize the motor side of education, self-control and self-direction, because we believe the most enduring results as well as the most potent educational facts and forces are created through action.

The plan of this paper embraces a two-fold aim:

1. It is our purpose to pass in brief review the natural history of

Digitized by

Google
-151-

will. Through what stadia do we pass in the unfolding of our personality before we possess the power of self-active, self-directive, and self-controlled energizing, in other words, volition in its highest and fullest sense ?

2. In what way does physical training of the right sort assist in this development ?

It is easy to see that the earliest movements of the child are not voluntary, but are ojily reflex, instinctive, and impulsive. The early movements of the child are no more voluntary actions than is the movement of the aspen leaf, of the brook splashing over the ro.cks as it tumbles down the mountain side, of the stone that flies from the boy’s sling shot, or of the cannon ball, as it describes its parabola of six or seven miles over the waves and across the water when hurled from the monster iron-clad at sea. The individual, the personality, must first have a clear definite idea of the movement and the purpose of it before voluntary action can possibly be initiated. The difference between such movements as we see in the waving grain, the ebbing tide, the walking-beam of the monstrous side-wheel steamer, the ascending balloon, the falling meteor, the crashing iceberg, and the impulsive and reflex movements of the child on the one hand ; and on the other hand such movements as are exhibited by the wood-carver as he cuts a design, the etcher as he traces a plate, the pilot as he steers his vessel, the marine as he “sights” the cannon, the astronomer as he turns his telescope upon the dimly lighted star, the child of five or six learning to weave mats at the kindergarten, is that the latter are voluntary actions or movements plus consciousness.

First, we have the impulsive movements. By this group-name it is intended to signify that large class of movements which take place without the presence of any external stimulation, without any sensory arousement to which the organism need make response. They are of course entirely outside of the domain of conscious attention and are therefore distinctly will-less movements, being merely the result of an overflow of nervous energy.

Second, the reflex movements, those movements that form so large a portion of the early manifestations of activity on the part of the infant, especially in the early days of child-life. Neither do these reflex movements involve the least degree of attention or conscious control. In fact they involve just the opposite. They, too, are characterized by an utter absence of the subject’s power of attention or conscious effort.

We have, in the third place, what are called the instinctive movements. These instinctive movements constitute the majority of the activities in which animals engage, and are found to embrace a large number of the movements which human beings manifest.

Finally, there is that large class of movements which are the pure results of deliberative choice,—action in the truest and highest sense— voluntary action, which is indeed one of the essential characteristics of personality. No such thing as personality is conceivable without the power of self-direction—this action from motives and ideas towards aims and ideals. In this class of movements we have as essential features the desire of an end to be attained, concentrated attention

Digitized by CjOOQle
-152-

upon this object or end, the imaging of this desired end before the mind, the picturing of the means to be employed in order to achieve it, and a putting forth of energy in order that the desired end may actually be attained. These movements are really bona tide voluntary actions and we may call them deliberative or ideational movements.

(To be concluded.)

SOMETHING ABOUT TEACHERS OF GYMNASTICS.

A paper read at the Convention of Gymnastic Instructors of the N. A. G. U., August 3, at Milwaukee, By HY. HARTUNG, M. D., Chicago, 111.

(Continued.)

MUCH less, however, on short personal acquaintance, are we impressed with his counterpart, the man who knows physical culture and athletics more from the theoretical than from the practical point of view. Probably as a result of extensive study and experience the representative of this species has come to the conclusion that our present system of education is still lacking a great deal in the direction of physical accomplishments of our young men, as compared with the extent of their mental culture. Hence he makes up his mind to become a teacher of gymnastics. Whatever skill he acquires in the performance of the various gymnastic exercises is gained only through hard and laborious exertions, and however limited his ability may be as a gymnast, he manages to teach his professional art with a fair amount of success. Especially in general class-drills and school-work, as practiced in public schools, he is, probably, the best qualified man.

His perfect knowledge of pedagogical principles, his carefully outlined programs and methods in individual and class-work, make him, perhaps, the ideal teacher for children and younger students, and this the more so as he is wont to treat his subject only as a part of general education and as of equal rank to mental and moral development.

But quite often we find the same person much less successful with classes of adults. His rather limited skill in advanced gymnastics and athletics, together with a too rigid enforcement of rules and methods— so useful in the training of children—may act as drawbacks in the training of men’s classes or teams which are eager to excell in contests and public tournaments. With him gymnastics does not go beyond the attainment of health, pleasure, and recreation, whence his aversion to shows, to specializing for the benefit of a few, to public drills, to record breaking, etc., which at present, nevertheless, seem to be inseparable from the practice in vogue in our classes for adults.

So I might continue sketching a few more types of physical directors ; for instance, the one who teaches gymnastics from the point of view of a military drill-master, or from that of a medical professor, who writes prescriptions for lessons of bodily movements, aiming to bring his pupils up to the standard of the so-called normal man.

Naturally, now, you might ask me which of those pictured I would consider the perfect or ideal teacher,—or what demands and qualifications are necessary for an all-around efficient instructor of our pro-

Digitized by

Google
-153—

fession. Such a question, it seems to me, is not an idle one, as recent debates and public discussions have shown that there is still a remarkable difference of opinion on this subject.

From this we may infer that there hardly will be found a living ideal of a teacher of gymnastics on whom all of us will agree. While some of us excell in one line, others again will be superior in other qualities of mind and body, everyone, undoubtedly, lacking one or the other element which will detract from his perfection. But there may be set up an imaginary model for our profession, upon whom we may bestow all our good and exemplary features and whom we may offer as an ideal for ourselves.

In times long gone by, when gymnastics was still in its infancy, it evidently would have been difficult and entirely without purpose to put up fixed rules or requirements for gymnastic trainers. A certain amount of bodily skill, strength, and natural talent in performing and imparting a series of physical movements in any of the manly sports, games, field exercises, or military drills would have entitled anybody who felt an inclination for this profession to become a teacher of this, at that time, comparatively young art.

Such men were more of what we may call teachers by force of nature than by acquirement, especially so as their whole heart and soul seemed to be imbued with their chosen work. As a rule their efforts were crowned with success ; they soon became known all over the world for their excellent results, and pupils flocked to them from all directions. Amongst them we honor and admire the originators and pioneers of modern gymnastics : such worthy men as Jahn, GutsMuths, Friesen, Eiselen, Massmann, Diirre, Spiess, and many others, mostly men of genius and originality. Since then gymnastics has crystallized into a systematic and more or less scientific system of training and has become a valuable branch of general education. Gubernatorial and municipal authorities have begun to recognize the immense value of a thorough, all-around physical training for children as well as for adults, and have advocated it in various ways. To-day we find it a part of the curriculum of instruction in the best public and private schools in most of our civilized countries ; we find it an important part of the military training in the armies of almost all nations ; it is taught in our higher schools of learning, normal schools, universities, and colleges ; even in such institutions as penitentiaries, asylums for the blind, deaf and dumb, insane, etc., do we find it employed for various purposes, clearly showing its extraordinary benefits upon mind and body.

Though being cultivated at the beginning mostly" in clubs or societies, it has at present far outgrown its original sphere and taken up many new aspects in the course of farther development. With its forming into a definite systematic branch of modern education, which even now is constantly being enlarged upon, so as to answer its multiform purposes, it is natural that at present any person professing to teach this difficult discipline must necessarily have a thorough, special, and all-around training before he can become an efficient and successful teacher.

Of all the qualities that such a position demands, according to my opinion, it is necessary that such a person be :

Digitized by CaOOQle
—154—

1st, a gymnast ;

2nd, a pedagogue;

3d, if not a doctor of medicine, yet sufficiently acquainted with those branches of medical science which are more or less related to his subject of teaching.

I. HE MUST BE A GYMNAST.

Not all of us are horn gymnasts. Nor do I wish to say that every gymnast, however well developed he may be, should be considered able to teach this branch of education, otherwise we might pick our best models from the prize-ring or from among the acrobats. But it must stand as a rule that every teacher must be capable of executing all those elementary forms of movements that he wishes to impart to his pupils. It is not necessary for him that he be able to walk on his hands up an inclined ladder, or that he perform the giant circle forward and backward on the horizontal bar, nor can he be required to be equal or superior to the best of his pupils in all of the varieties of our multiform gymnastic specialties, but he must necessarily be able to show practically the fundamental forms of exercise upon which his pupils easily can build up more difficult and daring ones in case the teacher should be unable to perform those himself.

He must have enough practical all-around experience to know from his own observation how to overcome certain obstacles ; how to execute certain turns, swings, lifts, bends, and so on ; how to do a model exercise with the greatest amount of benefit and the least amount of danger to the body. The better and more elegant a performer he is, of course, the more of a model for his pupils he will be, the more highly will he be esteemed and appreciated, other things being equal. There is probably no other branch of teaching where the teacher will be the absolute model for his pupils than gymnastics. While other branches are taught mostly by applying to and developing mental faculties by words, thoughts, action, and example, ours is to a great extent carried on by illustration and copying, by example and imitation. Nobody would think of hiring a poor musician to teach music ; nor would I entrust my boy to an old worn out school ma’am for a course in physical training. A man may know by heart all the books that have ever been written on gymnastics, he may even be a doctor and the greatest enthusiast on physical culture,—I doubt whether he ever will be able to bring up a class of all-around developed boys and girls, or healthy and strong men and women, if he cannot practically demonstrate what he wants others to do and to learn.

Theory and practice are nowhere more closely allied than in our profession ; a lack of knowledge of either will always be an obstacle to success. You must not only know your subject but you must also be able to show it plastically when required. I know of persons who undertook to teach gymnastics, who had their heads crammed full of theoretical knowledge about this subject, who at any time would be able to write a book about it,—but always failed to make a success in practical teaching because of their lack of ability in demonstration, which made them poor models and poor teachers and often exposed them to laughter and ridicule. On the other hand I know many who

Digitized by Google
-155-

are rather poor in mental schooling and knowledge, who still were fairly successful, only by virtue of being splendid gymnasts and experts in almost any kind of exercise.

In connection herewith it may be stated that his or her personal appearance is of great importance for the teacher of gymnastics. You may be lame and be able to teach algebra, astronomy, or penmanship. I know of a man who weighs nearly 300 pounds and who is a very successful teacher of singing,—but he must have a symmetrical, healthy body if he wishes to be a first class teacher of gymnastics. To a certain extent he should represent in himself something of that model figure, to which he wishes to educate his pupils.

While there are probably very few of us who come up to the standard of the ancient Greek athlete, or to our contemporary Sandow, still, even if deficient in some respects (as most of us are), there is always a great chance lor improvement by proper care and selfobservation.

I cannot consider a person up to the average of requirements who walks as if he had to carry 80 years on his shoulders, never stands without looking for some support, or carries 100 pounds or more of superfluous flesh with him which is of no earthly value for him nor for his pupils,—or who happens to suffer from any marked physical defect. For comparison then look at his counterpart, the lithe, graceful, self-controlling figure, well proportioned, erect, and full of elasticity in all his movements : does he not involuntarily call forth the admiration of everybody, the natural desire to possess or acquire a physique like his ? There is very much in countenance and figure. Sometimes they are misleading, but more often we really find a sound mind in a sound, well developed body.

At the same time we should be careful to the utmost to carry ourselves in accordance with our teachings. Whoever wants others to sit erect, stand upright, carry the head well poised, the shoulders back and chest out,—must needs show his pupils that he himself does not violate these fundamental requirements for a good figure and appearance. He who wishes to develop in others a complete mastership of the power of will over the body must not fail to show that he himself was his best and most obedient pupil. The old adage, “Practice what you preach!” is nowhere better applied than here. I have repeatedly had the chance to overhear the remarks of spectators at public exhibitions, criticising some of our colleagues in a rather severe way on account of the utter carelessness in regard to carriage and bearing.

A conscientious teacher of gymnastics should even in his extra-professional ways and actions betray to the eye of the general public a certain amount of culture and physical refinement, not noticeable in the majority of other people. A close observance of this principle will always add to a teacher’s reputation and impress others favorably with his presence.	(To be concluded.)
-156-

ANIMAL HEAT.

By ROBERT FISHER, M. D., Instructor of Turnverein Vorwaerts, Cleveland, O.

A paper, read at the Convention of Gymnastic Instructiors of the N. A. G. U., August 3, at Milwaukee, Wis.

IT is not my intention to read a long paper upon the subject of Animal Heat, but only to call your attention to one of the most interesting phenomena of the human body, and one in which we, as physical educators, should be especially interested.

One of the most characteristic properties of living animals is that of maintaining more or less constantly a standard temperature, notwithstanding the external changes of heat or cold to which they are subjected. The animal temperature is essentially the same in the intense cold of the frigid zones and in the burning sun of the tropics; and if, from any cause, the body becomes incapable of keeping up its temperature when exposed to cold, or of moderating it when exposed to heat, death is the invariable result. As the body, however, by exposure to the changes in the atmosphere, must be constantly losing heat by radiation and conduction, and yet maintain a standard temperature, it is plain that a certain amount of heat must be generated in its interior, sufficient to compensate for the external loss. The internal heat, so produced, is known by the name of “Animal Heat.”

Thus it is by its own internal heat that the body is warmed. The clothing used by man, and the fur, feathers, wool, etc., by which animals are protected, produce no warmth in themselves; they simply prevent the body from losing heat too rapidly and from thus becoming cooled down below the normal.

Still, even in the living body we find a heat variation between different parts which is normal. Thus the external surface (skin) is considerably lower in temperature than are the internal organs. This accounts for the uncomfortable warm feeling during the summer months ; for although the atmospheric heat may not reach that of the body, still it may be considerably above that of the skin.

Temporary variations in temperature may also be produced by food, hot or cold drinks, muscular exercise, etc. It is a matter of common observation, both in men and in animals, that temporary exertion produces an increase of bodily warmth.

I have myself made this experiment upon six men between 18 and 25 years of age. After taking their temperature, I subjected them for 60 minutes to active exercise. The thermometer then showed a rise in each individual, ranging from M> to % degree.

The question now arises. In what tissues ot the body is heat produced ? Physiological investigation has proven that, although produced to some extent in all of the tissues, by far the largest portion is produced in the muscular system. Also that, although heat is continually being produced in the muscles, even when in repose, the largest quantity is generated while they are being exercised. Everyone will have made the observation that one of the most effective methods of resisting the depressing influence of cold is to constantly exercise the muscles ; and it is well known that after long exposure to intense cold

Digitized by kjOOQle
—157—

the tendency to sleep becomes almost irresistible and, if indulged in, is followed by a very rapid loss of heat and almost certain death.

The elevation in temperature that attends muscular action is produced directly in the substance of the muscle. This was well observed by French investigators in experiments upon individual groups of muscles.

The nervous system, also, exerts a powerful influence upon the production of bodily heat, as it modifies the circulation and nutritive processes in all parts; hence any action which will raise the blood-supply to a part, will also raise the temperature. Thus we account in part for the effect of physical exercise upon the digestive tract. By indulging in rational trunk exercises we increase not only the peristaltic action of the intestines, but also stimulate the outpouring of the intestinal secretions, together with an increased blood-supply. One of the products of this metabolism is animal heat.

Right here it may be proper to answer the question as to how heat is generated. With every inspiration we inhale into the lungs from 25 to 30 cubic inches of atmospheric air, containing about 6.3 cub. in. of oxygen. This oxygen is partly taken up in the lungs by the red corpuscles of the blood and distributed throughout the body. Nearly all the tissues of the body, with, perhaps, the exception of the skin which sheds its waste products, discharge the excrementitious products of their metabolism in the shape of carbonic acid. The oxygen carried by the blood, and the carbon and hydrogen of the tissues, bring about a chemical reaction or combustion, which is attended with the evolution of heat and also by the production of carbonic acid and water. Thus the body rids itself of its waste and also generates heat.

In order that these functions may go on, it is of course necessary to supply food. The sufficient supply of food makes it possible for two processes to go on continually: the building up of the tissues from the food, and the burning up of the oxygen in combination with cast-off protoplasmic material, the latter accompanied with the production of heat. Here again, with a little sound reasoning, everyone will be able to see the benefit of physical exercise. Gymnastic workf increases the number and depth of the respirations, thus increasing the amount of oxygen inhaled. It - stimulates the circulation, and consequently the oxygen is more quickly brought to its place of destination; the waste products are more quickly eliminated, heat is produced, and more food becomes necessary for the building up of the tissues.

As to the kind of food necessary to the generation of heat, much has been written. Foods are divided into two great classes, the nitrogenous and the non-nitrogenous. Under the head of nitrogenous foods we have the various meats, fowl, eggs, milk, fish, etc. Among the noil-nitrogenous we have bread, potatoes, fruits, butter, lard, etc. Investigations have gone so far as to show that we may confine an animal to a purely nitrogenous diet, and the heat of the body will be maintained at the proper standard ; but at all times there is a certain quantity of non-nitrogenous matter (sugar and perhaps fat) formed in the system which is only formed to be consumed. Thus in a temperate climate, with a sufficient amount of animal meat, we can maintain the normal animal temperature.

Digitized by tjOOQle
—158—

As far as the destination of the saccharine and fatty elements of food (the non-nitrogenous) is concerned, we only know that they are incapable by themselves of repairing muscular tissue, and that they cannot sustain life. They are never discharged from the healthy body in the form under which they enter ; but are in part or completely destroyed in nutrition. They are completely destroyed in persons who, from habitual muscular exercise, have very little adipose tissue. When their proportion in the food is large, they are not of necessity entirely consumed, but may be deposited in the form of fat. This, however, may be made to disappear by regular exercise or under an insufficient diet. There can be no doubt but that the non-nitrogenous class of principles is craved by the system in long continued exposures to extreme cold. This is particularly marked with regard to the fats. In cold climates fat is a most important element of food ; and while the nitrogenous elements are largely increased, there is a very much larger proportional increase in the quantity of fat. These facts are very significant. If the non-nitrogenous elements of food which are not always dispensable, though often very necessary, articles, do not form tissue, are not discharged from the body, and are consumed in some of the processes of nutrition, it would seem that their change must involve the production of carbonic acid, perhaps also water, and the evolution of heat. Thus, in summing up, we may say that the nitrogenous foods, while able to maintain the normal temperature, are principally concerned in the repair of the tissues, while the non-nitrogenous foods, though not concerned in the repair of tissue, are particularly important in the production of animal heat.

It is owing to the fact that the body heat can be maintained and the tissues built upon a purely nitrogenous diet which makes the professional trainer so successful in his work. In order to get his man into what he calls “fine condition,” he places him upon a purely nitrogenous diet, and through excessive muscular and respiratory exercise eliminates the adipose tissue which has previously accumulated. Whether such a system of training can be maintained for a long period of time (say five years) without intermission, I do not know; I do, however, seriously doubt it. It has, to my knowledge, never been tried, as most of the men who Undergo training, when their event is over, return to their former mode Of living.

Thus far I have only spoken of the production of heat. It may be of interest if I say just a few words as to how the average temperature is maintained amid all this production. It is principally controlled by mechanisms which permit of variations in the amount of heat got rid of and of variations in the amount produced or introduced into the body. The principal loss is through radiation and conduction. For this purpose the skin offers a large surface and is richly supplied with bloodvessels. These blood-vessels are under the control of the vaso-inotor nerves which cause either a lessening or an increase in the calibre of the vessels. A warm, hot' atmosphere so acts on the nerve fibers of the skin as to cause, by reflex, a relaxation of the muscular fibers of the blood-vessels, and as a result the skin becomes full-blooded, hot, and sweating, and much heat is lost. The opposite takes place when the heat

Digitized by ejOOQle
-159-

is produced wholly within the body, the atmospheric temperature being low. Heat is also given up through the respiratory passages, through the glandular apparatus of the body, by introducing cold drinks, etc.

Investigations and experiments are continually being carried on by physiologists who believe that we have in the brain a distinct heat center which controls the production and elimination, etc., of heat. To discuss or even enumerate the various theories and results so far obtained, is beyond the scope of this paper.

INSTRUCTION IN SWIMMING.

Issued by Command of Major-General NELSON A. MILES for the Information and Assistance of the Officers of the United States Army and for New Cadets at West Point.

(Concluded.)

PRELIMINARY EXERCISES IN THE WATER.

THE belt being adjusted, the man will prepare to leap into the water;

he will draw a deep breath, and at the" command Leap! he will spring from the. platform. The body must be kept straight and the feet strike the water first. The mouth must be kept closed and the air retained as long as possible. After reaching the surface, in which he is assisted by the instructor, he will take the following position:

Position in the. Water. The body, with the chest down, is fully extended'; arms are held horizontally forward, just under the surface of the water, palms together, fingers closed; the legs are straight and closed, feet downward; head thrown back. When the position is correctly taken the instructor commands:

1.	Arm movements, 2. One, 3. Two, 4. Three.

Execute the movements as described under Preliminary Exercises on land. While exercising the arms, the legs may be lowered.

To execute the leg movements the instructor commands :

1.	Leg movements, 2. One, 3. Two, 4. Three.

At one the knees are drawn up under the body as far as possible, feet closed and the knees parted a few inches ; lower legs horizontal.

At two the legs are extended sideward, parting them as much as possible and forcing the water back with the soles of the feet.

At three the legs are closed. This should be done without bending them at the knees.

While the leg movements are being taught the instructor will allow the learner to hold a rope between his hands, the other end of which may be fastened to the platform. This will serve to keep the body from turning.

When these movements are faultlessly executed the instructor will command :

1. Stroke, 2. One, 3. Two, 4. Three.

At one the arms are moved sideward and when the hands are moving toward the body the knees are drawn up. These movements will be executed in such a manner that the hands are closed when the knees are fully drawn up.

At two the arms are extended directly forward and the legs sideward.

Digitized by L^ooQle
-160-

At three the legs are closed and the hands remain closed in the first position.

The cadence of this stroke is indicated by the command. The first command one is drawn out, indicating that the movement is a long and slow one ; this is followed quickly by the other two, which indicate that these movements are to be executed quickly and in quick succession.

After each stroke there is a slight pause.

When the stroke is executed properly by the numbers it should be tried without the numbers. When this is learned the instructor will hold the man by the rope only. Doing this he will allow the man to move forward with each stroke.

To satify himself that the man is learning to support himself, the instructor will slacken the rope slightly just as the stroke is begun, drawing it taut again when the extension is executed. Gradually the weight on the rope will grow less and soon the man will be able to execute a few strokes unassisted. Now he is encouraged to swim as many strokes as possible ; the instructor being careful to be ready to draw the rope taut when assistance is required. When he is able to swim from thirty to fifty strokes he is given a trial to swim on time. This is done daily until he is able to swim from five to six minutes, when he is transferred from the Beginners’ Squad to the Qualifying Squad.

Breathing. This is always a source of great annoyance to beginners. Instructors must give the necessary information regarding the manner and time of breathing when the stroke is being taught. By doing so much will be gained.

Ordinarily each act of respiration is divided as follows :

Inspiration, followed by a very slight pause ; expiration, followed by a pause, the duration of which is equal to about one-fifth of whole time required by one act of respiration. The act of expiration is always a trifle longer than that of inspiration.

In swimming all this is slightly changed. The inspiration is quick and deep, which is followed by a pause ; the expiration is slow, occupying again as much time as the inspiration ; then there is another slight pause.

The proper time to inhale is while the arms are being drawn towards the body ; hold the breath while the arms are being extended, and exhale during the pause between the strokes.

Qualifying. No one, who is not able to swim at least ten or fifteen minutes, with the ordinary chest stroke, should venture into deep water. Until this is accomplished no one should under any circumstances whatever be allowed to swim in deep water without having a rope fastened to his body.

When a man is attempting to qualify the belt is placed around his waist. Every man is expected to swim as long as he possibly can. To qualify he must swim, at the very least, ten minutes. When circumstances will permit it this time should be increased to twenty or thirty minutes. After qualifying, instructions are no longer received ; the man is then transferred to the practice squad.

Usually at his first or second attempt to qualify a beginner will fail
—161—

to do so. He loses confidence and with it the stroke. His legs and arms will execute all but the right movements ; he forgets to breathe at the proper time and is in consequence choked by the water. In order to overcome this the instructor will first encourage him to regain confidence and the stroke ; if this is unsuccessful he must assist him until the stroke is regained.

PRACTICE SQUAD.

A person is by no means considered even an ordinary swimmer if he is capable of swimming on bis chest only. He must also accomplish the art of sustaining himself in the water with less muscular exertion than is required by the chest stroke. To learn to do this is the duty of the members of the Practice Squad, To develop endurance, swimming long distances should be encouraged.

It is not necessary to give systematic instructions in the following modes of swimming. Any ordinary chest swimmer can acquire them with a little practice.

Swimming on the Back. This should be diligently practiced, as it affords the exhausted swimmer an opportunity to rest himself.

I.	With Leg Movements. The body, fully extended, is thrown backward and rests in the water at an angle of about 20 or 25 degrees ; the arms are thrown out sideward and bent, fore and upper arms at right angles to each other, palms down ; the head is well thrown back; the chest thrown out and the back slightly arched. To propel the body the knees are drawn up as in the chest'stroke, but only about half the distance, and then extended sideward and closed. Arms may also be folded or hands placed on hips,

II.	With Arm Movements. When the arms only are used the position is the same. The legs may be parted or closed, and the back is well arched. The arms, about half extended, execute a series of paddle movements toward the body.

III.	The Arms and Legs. The leg movements of the I and the arm movements of the II may be combined. Or the same leg movements may be combined with a backward and overhead reach of the arms. Here the arms are raised out of the water and moved as far backward as possible, when they again enter the water and are forced toward the body.

Treading Water. The body is nearly at right angles to the surface of the water, there being a very slight inclination backward.

1.	Raise both knees alternately and extend directly downward. The forearms are held horizontally forward and the hands are used to press the water downward.

2.	Execute the same movements, raising both knees at the same time and extending the legs downward and sideward.

3.	Execute either of the above without the use of the hands.

Floating. The body is stiffly extended and rests in the water face

upward ; the back is well arched, the head well thrown back ; the legs closed or parted, the arms are at the sides. The*lungs should be kept well inflated and the respiration quick. If it is found impossible to float in this manner the hands should by a wrist movement only be quickly moved inward and outward, palms down.

Digitized by C^ooQle
A/VnD ftND BODY.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.

'WleoeaajBlaa..

r Published Monthly.

BY

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Yeiir.

49" Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

SUMMER SCHOOLS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING.

WE often—and not alone in onr own ranks—hear the remark that summer schools are, on general principles, a nuisance, inasmuch as a few weeks of instruction could not sufficiently prepare persons for becoming teachers, and that this quick process of certificating teachers creates quasi physical culture “scabs,” who naturally must lower the standard of physical training and obstruct the engagement of instructors that have regularly graduated from some one or two year normal school course.

There is a good deal of truth in this allegation; but at the same time we must consider that most of the summer schools now have a graded system of instruction. Students are obliged to take more than one course and thereby come nearer to something like a standard of study. Still more important seems to us the fact that almost all of the students of summer schools of physical education have had either considerable prior experience in teaching the subject, or are graduates of some normal school ; in other words, they come not as beginners, but simply to increase their professional acquirements and to make themselves thoroughly acquainted with systems or methods that they were not familiar with up to that time.

To our mind, summer schools ought to be open only to experienced teachers, or to persons passing a satisfactory entrance-examination. Again, admission would have to be granted to class leaders of small societies, who cannot afford to pay for a highly educated teacher or instructor, but can very well get along with a class leader with elementary knowledge. Such societies should have the opportunity to procure that amount of training to one of their members. A somewhat different diploma or certificate ought to be issued in such cases, which can not be used per se in competing for a position with instructors possessing full normal school diplomas.

At present the sumnler schools are entirely too liberal in the issuance of diplomas or certificates.

—We are in receipt of the announcement of a Teachers' Course in Physical Culture from the University of California. The entire course embraces two years and is under the direction of W. E. Magee. The course in Anatomy, with Dissection, is given in the Medical Department of the University of San Francisco. To judge from the program, we may say that this school offers everything a teacher of physical training should study and that it promises to be a most necessary and useful source of supply of well trained gymnastic teachers on the Pacific coast.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

Digitized by

Google
-163-

THEORY OF FENCING IN FORM OF A CATECHISM.

'	By	GEO. HEINTZ, Sr.

(All rights reserved.)

(Continued.)

SECOND LESSON. (With Arms.)

11.	Advance and immediately, when the left foot touches the ground, lunge.

12.	Retreat and immediately after appel with right foot lunge.

13.	The instructor will here explain that part of the blade where the engagement takes place, also the part which you thrust and the part which you parry with.

14.	The instructor will here explain the different openings, how to parry them in a simple manner and how to attack in a direct line from those parries.

15.	Move the hand and blade swiftly about 6 inches to the left, point of the sword parallel with the hand: extend the arm with opposition to the left, point directed with center of the breast, and lunge.

16.	Move the hand and blade swiftly about 6 inches to the right, point of the sword parallel with the hand; extend the arm with opposition to the right, point directed with center of the breast, and lunge.

17.	Move the hand swiftly to the left downward, hand slightly turned, thumb on top, point directed slightly left and to the front; extend the arm with opposition left, point directed with center of the breast, and lunge.

18.	Describe a half circle with the point of your sword from right to left downward, point as high as the hip; hand remains at the same height; extend the arm with opposition left, point directed with center of waist, and lunge.

19.	After parrying tierce, describe a half circle with the point of your sword from left to right downward, point as high as the; hip hand remains at the same height; extend the arm with opposition right, point directed with center of waist, and lunge.

20.	Describe a half circle with the point of your sword from left to right downward; at the same time the hand is slightly lowered and turned, thumb downward but mostly to the left; then turn your hand, finger nails upward, and bring the point of your sword in high line of tierce with opposition to the right, and directed with center of breast, and lunge.

21.	After the parry of seconde, turn the hand, finger nails upward, and swiftly raise it in high line of quarte with good opposition to the left, point directed with center of breast, and lunge.

22.	After the parry of tierce, turn the hand, thumb to the left; at the same time the point moves slightly to the right and is lowered towards the left side, blade vertical between both legs and right hand close in front of left shoulder, thumb towards the body; then describe with steady hand a full circle around body and if point is directed with center of breast extend arm with opposition left, and lunge.

23.	After the parry of tierce, execute the same motions as in 22 with

Digitized by LjOOQle
-164-

the exception that the hand is drawn to the left side of head, and point of foil is directed forward with center of fyody; then extend arm with high hand and opposition to the left, and lunge.

THIRD LESSON.

After taking intervals and open order the instructor commands:

1.	1, Half face to the left; 2, Take your guard; (in one time and three motions).

2.	1,	Feint	in	line; 2, Advance; 3, Lunge;	4,	Resume	guard.

3.	1,	Feint	in	line; 2, Advance and lunge;	3,	Resume	guard.

4.	1,	Feint	in	line and advance; 2, Lunge;	3,	Resume	guard.

5.	1,	Feint	in	line and advance and lunge;	2,	Resume	guard.

6.	1, Parry quarte and tierce; 2, Extend and lunge; 3, Resume guard and parry quarte.

7.	1, Parry tierce and quarte; 2, Extend and lunge; 3, Resume guard and parry tierce.

8.	1, Parry quarte and lower quarte; Extend and lunge; Resume guard and parry quarte.

9.	1, Parry tierce and lower tierce; Extend and lunge; Resume guard and parry quarte;

10.	1, Parry tierce and seconde; Encircle and lunge; Resume guard and parry lower quarte.

11.	1, Parry lower tierce and lower quarte; 2, Extend and lunge; 3, Resume guard and parry lower tierce.

12.	1, Parry lower quarte and lower tierce; 2, Extend and lunge; 3, Resume guard and parry tierce.

13.	1, Parry seconde and prime (low); 2, Cut and lunge; 3, Resume guard and parry tierce.

14.	. Parry seconde and prime (high); 2, Extend and lunge; 3, Resume

guard and parry tierce.

15.	1, Parry lower tierce and quarte; 2, Extend and lunge; 3, Resume guard and parry tierce.

16.	1, Parry quinte and tierce; 2, Extend and lunge; 3, Resume guard and parry quarte.

17.	1, Parry Ipwer quarte and tierce; 2, Extend and lunge; 3, Resume guard and parry quarte.

18.	1, Extend and lunge; 2, Resume guard and parry tierce and quarte.

19.	1, Extend and lunge; 2, Resume guard and parry tierce and lower tierce.

20.	1, Extend and lunge; 2, Resume guard and parry quarte and lower quarte.

21.	1, Extend and lunge; 2, Resume guard and parry tierce and seconde.

22.	1, Encircle and lunge; 2, Resume guard and parry lower quarte and quarte.

23.	1, Extend and lunge; 2, Resume guard and parry lower tierce and tierce;

24.	1, Extend and lunge; 2, Resume guard and parry prime (high) and seconde.

25.	1, Encircle and lunge; 2, Resume guard and parry tierce and prime (low).

x

Digitized by t^ooQle
—165—

26.	1, Cut and lunge; 2, Resume guard and parry tierce and lower tierce.

27.	1, Parry lower quarte; quarte; tierce; seconde and prime (low); *2, Cut and lunge, 3, Resume guard and cover quarte.

Note.—The exercise of the legs should be very frequently practiced.

EXPLANATIONS.

In this lesson where the pupils perform two parries in succession, always form the first in full, then swiftly form the second. If attacking from the last parry, always keep opposition and elevation of the hand in the same line where the parry took place, except when the encircling from the parry of seconde takes place; in that case keep strong opposition to the left.

Remark: To determine how long each lesson is to be dwelt upon depends on the progress of the pupils and the pressure of circumstances. A good instructor will never pass from one lesson to another until the pupil fully understands and can execute all the previous lessons.

GAMES FOR GIRLS.

By W. C. SCHAEFER.

X.

45. FLOWER-BALL.

The players form in a circle, facing inward. The leader, called the Flower Queen, stands within. She has a ball in her hand. She gives to each member of the circle the name of a flower. Then she throws up the ball, at the same time calling out the name of one of the flowers. The one whose flower is named must run forward and trv to catch the ball. If she succeeds she becomes queen and the former queen takes her place in the circle. If she fails she must pick up the ball, give it to the queen, and return to her place. The ball must be thrown so that it will fall within the circle even if not caught.

46. PROMOTION.

The players, seven in number, place themselves in a circle about two paces apart. Each one stands in a small circle marked on the floor

with chalk. (See cut.) In each space is written one of the following words :	1.

General, 2. Colonel, 3. Captain, 4. Lieutenant, 5. Sergeant, 6. Corporal, 7. Private. The persons occupying the circles bear the titles written therein. The general has a ball which she throws to someone in the circle. If the person to whom it is thrown catches it she returns it to the general, who throws it again to someone in the circle. If the ball is not caught, the player who misses it must pick it up and bring it back. At the same time all players in the circle step backward two steps and then return into the circle, trying to get a higher position.

; corporal)

£

, ^ \ 6ERGEAMT

illEUTENANf)

\ J

\0C!

Digitized by CjOOQle
-166-47. BALL-TAG.

1. The players form in a circle. One of them has a ball. The catcher is outside the circle. The player having the ball throws it to another, who throws it to another, and so on. The catcher must try to snatch the ball while it is flying, but is not permitted to enter the circle. If she catches the ball, the one who misses it becomes catcher, and the former catcher takes her place in the circle.

2.	The same as above, but with the catcher within the circle.

48. TARGET-BALL.

The players form a rank in front. Before them, at several paces distance, is the thrower. The first runner, at the command “Run”

from the thrower, runs along the line (see cut) till she stands opposite, and faces, the last runner. During this run the thrower attempts to hit her with a ball. If she succeeds, the one who was hit remains opposite the line of runners and the next runner is called out. This goes on until the thrower misses a runner, when the runner becomes thrower and the former thrower becomes the last member of the runners. The game continues till all have been hit. The player who hit the greatest number (when serving as thrower) is declared the winner.

CATCH-AS-CATCH-CAN WRESTLING.

By F. W. FROEHLICH, Teacher of Gymnastics of the North St. Louis Turnverein and of the Public Schools

of St. Louis.

CLASS-WRESTLING.

(Continued.)

FLOOR HOLDS.

AT THE LEFT SIDE OF OPPONENT.

18.	Farther Leg-Hold with Both Hands:	Right	arm	through

crotch from rear, left over, and connect hands; raise him and turn him towards you.

Break: Grasp opponent's ankle or extend left leg between his ; spin out or crawl through between his legs.

19.	Farther Leg-Hold with One Arm Left on Neck :	Left	hand	on

neck, proceed as in 18. After having raised opponent, let go left, turn him and double him up by throwing full weight of body against his right leg, arms well up near the hip.

Break:	Extend	left	leg	between opponent’s or, if too far gone, use

break in 18.

20.	Near Leg-Hold, Changing to Far Leg-Hold: Grasp opponent’s left ankle or leg, raising it, and immediately slip arm up into crotch as in hold 19 and proceed as in 19.

Change from right leg to left.

Break:	Push	or	kick	hand off with left foot, or as in 19. The

right leg may also be extended through between opponent’s.



Digitized by G.ooQle
-167-

21.	Neck-Tilt and Crotch-Hold (similar to half-Nelson and crotch-hold): Place left hand on oppbnent’s neck and take crotch-hold right from rear and turn over.

Break: Spin, or left leg between.

22.	Leg Grape-Vine with Arm: Wind right arm under and over opponent’s left foreleg, left arm on body or neck, and turn over quickly. Also simple ankle-hold.

Parry: Spin, or extend leg, or kick hand off.

23.	Near Half-Nelson and Crotch-Hold from Rear (opponent being the aggressor): When opponent has taken the half-Nelson, take a wing-lock left, twist toward .your left side, and extend left leg between, grasping his left wrist.

24.	Wrist-Lock: Very often right or left arm hangs carelessly over opponent's body. Grasp wrist with hand, extend leg between his, raising him and rolling.

Break : Spin, or bridge.

25.	Feint for a Near Half-Nelson and take a far arm-hold under body with crotch-hold.

26.	Leg-Trip with Hand : Standing on left side of opponent, try for any hold.

No. 2 : Grasp his left ankle quickly and pull his leg under.

27.	%-Nelson with Leg, Standing in Front of Opponent : Hook right leg around right arm from rear and press left knee against neck, hooking right foot over left leg.

Break : Spin or turn out.

28.	Far Half-Nelson and Leg Over: Throw right leg over opponent’s body and hook right foot Under his right leg from front, take a far half-Nelson and roll to the left.

29.	Wrist-Hold and Half Nelson: Take under far-arm-hold with left hand and draw the arm towards his crotch; with right hand reach through from rear and grasp opponent’s right wrist, take a half-Nelson left quickly, and turn him over.

Break :	Push	off with leg, or straighten legs and fall flat, or right

foot up.

30.	Arm and Leg-Hook: Left leg from front around right arm, right leg against opponent’s right leg from front, hook toes in.

Break : Bridge out, or sit erect.

31.	%-Nelson or Compound on Arm :	Right	leg over opponent’s

body and under his right leg, with right hand grasp his left wrist, with left arm under opponent’s left, grasp your own right wrist, and twist his arm backward to a hammer-lock.

Break : Get up or extend right leg, get out backward and on top.

32.	Far Leg Reversed Crotch-Hold at Right Side : When opponent attempts this hold, rise quickly on left foot or leg, extend right leg against his left from rear between, grasp his right ankle with right hand or arm, and trip him.

33.	To Turn an Opponent while in Sitting Position : Slip right arm under his right from front and jerk him around suddenly, assisting with left hand. Be careful to prevent his getting on top of you.

(To be concluded.)
-168-

CHANGES IN THE TEACHING CORPS OF THE N. A. G. U.

It was not Mr Emil Woerner, as has been erroneously reported in our last issue, but Mr. William Mauthe of the Turnverein Vorwaerts, Milwaukee, that has been appointed Mr. Geo. Wittich’s assistant in the South St. Louis Turnverein.

Mr. Max Strass has been appointed instructor in the Turnverein Vorwaerts, Denver, Colo., and in the Denver, Colo., Normal School.

Mr. Nic. Seuss is now teacher of the North Cincinnati Turnverein.

Mr. Franz Schneider has received the appointment as instructor of the North West St. Louis Turnverein.

Mr. Moritz Schroeter of Chicago is the successor of Mr. Oscar Scheer of the Pittsburg Central Turnverein.

Mr. Oscar Scheer has been suffering from ill health for quite a long time.

AN OUT-DOOR APPARATUS COMBINATION.

A DETAILED description of the above structure can be had on application to Spalding Bros, in Chicago. The original, designed by Mr. C. J. Kroh of the Chicago Normal School, can be inspected at the Normal Park, Chicago.

The exact description of the centre piece, consisting of a mast 40 feet in height, from which are suspended four climbing ropes, and to which are also attached, by means of a large circular support, four vertical, four slant, and four adjustable horizontal ladders,—was given

Digitized by CaOOQle
-169-

in the June (1896) number of this journal. This part of the structure was made by the boys of the school in the Slojd Department at a small outlay, viz., cost of lumber and iron work. The outer structure was added some months ago according to a special design of Mr. Kroh, and is self-explanatory.

By addressing Mr. Peterson of the above firm the cost of this structure in either wood or iron tubing, practical in all respects for school gymnastics, can be ascertained.

-171-

FOR POOR CHILDREN.

5|N Chicago a new playground for poor C* children was opened recently. It is in the heart of the district which reports annually the greatest mortality among children, in the center of an area where the fewest inhabitants, either big or little, ever had an experimental knowledge of parks. The new playground is on land owned by the Northwestern Railway Company, and it is largely due to the friendly interest of Marvin Hughitt, president of that company, that the land is secured rent free for a term of years. The movement for a system of playgrounds was inaugurated last winter by a Chicagoan noted for his philanthropy. He secured the co-operation of the board.

The playground is located at North Avenue and extends from Holt to Blanche Street. All about it are the Polish children who rarely visit the great parks and who have not even the small blessing of dooryards in which to play. The place is equipped with a shelter 100 feet long and 30 feet wide, swings, teeters, “flying Dutchmen,” parallel and horizontal bars, sand piles, and other things dear to children, the whole under a competent guardian and instructor. Work toward fitting the lot for a playground was commenced Aug. 1.

The place has been used by the eager children for the last weeks. One day 1,000 little ones played there.

It is the intention to keep tne grounds open the entire year. In winter it will be flooded, and every boy and girl in the neighborhood knows the delight that that will bring.

The public parks do not fill the needs for which the public playgrounds are intended, not only because they are remote from these wards, but also because the very poor classes, who need the benefits most, feel the constraint of the parks which are located in the better districts of the city. The poor children for whom these playgrounds are intended rarel\r, if ever, go beyond the immediate neighborhood where they live.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—We find a good account of the organization and work of the “Nord-Amerikanischer Turnerbund” (N. A. G. U.) in the “Annals of Hygiene.” The article winds up as follows:

“There is a continual change in the work, so that the entire body will be developed and strengthened. All are under the same regulations and discipline. None are permitted to come to the instructor and say, ‘Professor, I want exercise for my biceps,’ or ‘Professor. I want to train for a running match,’ etc. In short, this system aims to develop the whole man.

Here, then, we have a system of athletics without training. We have all that is valuable without any of the brutalising ‘sport,’ without any of the one-sided straining" and forcing. The central idea is the gaining and maintenance of healthy not the breaking of records, not the smashing of noses and blackening of

Digitized by v^ooQle
-172-

eyes, not the premature wearing-out ot this beautiful, pliable, intricate, wonder ful house in which our spirit abides.

Here we have the prophylaxis and cure for that which may ultimately lead to America’s downfall,—indigestion and neurasthenia. One third of American-born women may be classed as nervous and dyspeptic. Another ray of hope 1 see at present, is in the bicycle. Long may she ride !

Nothing can be accepted as valuable unless it can show results. The German system of turning points to rosy-cheeked lads and lassies, a sturdy, brainy, practical manhood, a healthy womanhood, and a ripe old age.”

—For the International Gymnastic Festival at Hamburg, to be held next summer, great preparations are already being made; not less than 75,000 Marks being voted to acquire the exhibition buildings, and the mayor and municipal council of the town are taking an active interest in the undertaking, which promises to be a meeting on a very large scale.

—The German Fencing Association, to which are affiliated most of the prominent German and Austrian fencing clubs, held its first fencing competition on June 6 and 7, at Berlin, when over 70 competitors entered for sword, foils, and dagger, and a great deal of high-class work was shown, the principal winners coming from the Berlin and Vienna clubs.

—At the Second Congress of the Olympic Games Committee, held at Havre from July 26 to August 1, the question of giving gymnastics a more prominent position in their program was discussed, and eight French gymnastic instructors were appointed to discuss the matter with delegates present from other countries. These included two from Russia, one from Sweden, one from England (Rev. de Courcy Laffan, Cheltenham College), one from Alsace, so that it will be seen that the meeting was far from being a representative one. A lengthy and more or less fruitless, and at times hot, discussion took place between the delegates and the French professors of gymnastics, a good deal of the time being taken up by matters concerning only the teachers personally; but nothing of a very important nature was decided. The propositions made by the teachers were of a very general nature, but all delegates agreed that a methodical and systematic mode of gymnastic training was necessary as a basis for physical education. It was decided that at the next repetition of the Olympic Games, to be held in Paris, in 1900, gymnastics shall take a prominent position on the program (at Athens they took a back seat). A distinction will then also be made between professionals, amateurs, and teachers, and an “Olympian Journal” is to be published in three languages, /. e., French, English, and German.

—Through the kindness of the Western Engraving Co., St. Louis, we are enabled to continue the artistic reproductions of the St. Louis Festival. It is impossible, of course, to reproduce the whole Souvenir. We gladly recommend the acquisition of an original copy to everybody interested in physical training and manly arts.

—Prof. Louis Lepper, instructor of physical training in the public schools in Terre Haute, Ind., conducted a summer course of physical education at the State Normal School. Sixty-nine teachers took this course and his methods will be introduced in the public schools by these teachers throughout the state.— Recently there were issued the first copies of the second edition of Prof. Lepper's “Manual of Physical Culture.”

—The Milwaukee Medical College is just completing its new magnificent building. It is under the same roof with the Trinity Hospital. It is the second medical college in this country with a well equipped gymnasium. The West is getting ahead of the East in a good many things lately.

—Saturday, September 11, the new freshmen of the Normal School of the North American Gymnastic Union underwent a thorough examination for admission. There was much evidence of a good preliminary education. One candidate only was rejected, on account of some physical defect.

Digitized by v^ooQle