p

fe-



MIND AND BODY

Vol. 25

FEBRUARY,

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHINj

I

rOKIAL COMMIT

t#RAR

N-^276

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. ^. Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 45 W. Johnson St'., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the post office at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

ADDRESS TO ATHLETIC RESEARCH SOCIETY, Hotel Astor, New York, Dec. 26, 1918.

FREDERICK J. REILLY, Principal, P. S. 33, The Bronx, New York.

“The war has demonstrated in a very striking manner, the lack of a well balanced and universal scheme of physical training and athletics. The immediate consideration of plans for the es- . tablishment of such a scheme on a sound basis is of the greatest importance.”

I have had the honor, on several occasions in the past two or three years, to address teachers of physical training, either directly, or thru articles published in the Review. And my attitude has been somewhat apologetic, as is proper for a layman addressing a body of experts. But I confess that this attitude has undergone a gradual change. I feel that the point of view of our experienced schoolmaster is one that you must take into consideration, if you expect to act anywhere; and iijs as a* schoolmaster that I wish to present my views.

My concept of the duty of a schoolmaster is five-fold :

1.	—The development of healthy bodies and of an intelligent interest in health as a necessary asset.

2.	—The development of the ability to think, to read intelligently, to talk and write intelligibly.

3.	—The development of habits and ideals of conduct, based on a sense of personal responsibility to our Creator and Final Judge.

Digitized by ^jOOQle
418

4.	—The development of a sense of civic duty, and devotion to the principles of democracy, based on the commandment, “Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself.”

5.	—The development of refinement and the capacity for enjoyment of the best in music, art, and the drama.

You will probably agree with me that this is quite a broad platform. I confess I do not know any one who is equally successful in reaching all of these five aims. But the statement expresses I believe the ideal toward which we strive.

I have placed the development of health first, because I believe it is almost, if not entirely, essential as a basis for the other four. Unfortunately most schoolmasters neglect the first, and concentrate on Reading, Writing, and Arithmetic. Unfortunately also, most directors of physical training, being specialists, assume a wrong attitude toward both the teacher and the children.

Now to my mind, there are four things that must be done before we can hope to lay the basis of a “well balanced and universal scheme of physical training and athletics.”

I.	—You directors of physical training must change your attitude toward the school teacher. He, or she, probably knows children better than you do. And when you find a teacher who is interested in your subject, you should co-operate with him, encourage him, actually follow his lead, rather than try to dictate to him and tell him what he must do.

II.	—The councils of this and similar organizations are dominated too largely by men whose primary interest is in college, or in the Y. M. C. A. Would it be out of order, Mr. Chairman, to ask for a show of hands to determine how many men present are engaged primarily with boys and girls of elementary school age? (COUNT) ' (12 hands).

The point I want to make is that if we expect to lay “a sound basis of a well balanced and universal scheme, we must start at the bottom, and not at the top. It is unfortunate that so many of the best men in the business are at the top. They should be at the bottom, where they are needed. You must not lose sight of the fact that we in the elementary school, are dealing with 100 per cent of the raw material of our future citizenship. (H. S. 5 per cent—Col. 1 percent.)

III.	—Whenever we grown-ups start to lay out a course of study for children, we compile a mass of material which we think “every child ought to know”; we cut that material up into sections, corresponding to our school years, and proceed to ram it down their throats, This is true of the makers of courses of study in English and Arithmetic, just as it is of those who lay our courses in physical training. I actually feel sorry for the children who have to go thru school and submit to courses of study so stupidly laid out.

Now here is an opportunity that comes not once in a lifetime but once in centuries, when the national consciousness is

Digitized by UaOOQle
419

alive to the necessity, to lay out a course of study in physical training, based on the principle enunciated by Froebel,—“Come let us play with our children”. Let us find out what they like to do at various stages of their development, and then adapt that material to* our purpose of a “well balanced and universal scheme of physical training”. This is the application of psychology to the problems of education; and psychology is only a technical term meaning simply “common sense”.

IV.—We have, unfortunately, conflicting schools of physical training, whose bickerings have, I believe, put back the good cause at least a generation. I am conversant, from personal experience, with practically all the various systems, and I am convinced, after 21 years experience as schoolmaster, that the method of athletic competition is the method that appeals to the genius of the American people, and especially to our boys and girls, with whom we are primarily concerned.

Moral—Adapt the material and method of “Athletics” to all boys and girls, arrange your program so that unconsciously they are getting all-around physical development, and you have met the national need.

I take it that the chairman will appoint a committee to work on this problem and report to this body at its next annual meeting. I commend these four points to the earnest consideration of this committee. And I further recommend that this committee get busy right away and do something—not wait until next year, when the flood tide of public interest has subsided, and we shall be left high and dry, because the public mind is occupied with other things.

If we had unlimited time, I should take great pleasure in going into a detailed explanation of the system of rational athletics as it is carried out in my own school. But this is not the time nor the place for that. But I cannot close without calling your attention to our system of individual classification for athletics, a classification based on age, grade, height, and weight, which I still believe is the only scientific classification system that has yet been worked out. It has stood the test of three years of keen competition between classes and individuals in my own school, and has given complete satisfaction in every way.

Mr. Ball presented here last year a scholarly study of various systems of handicapping in use. As I remember them they were all subject to the same criticism: they were worked out from the top down, instead of starting at the bottom and working up.

A scientific handicapping system is absolutely essential to any scheme of extensive physical training thru athletics. And, with appropriately Chinese modesty, I commend this individual classification system, based on age, grade, height, and weight, to the serious consideration of your committee.

To sum up, I regard these things as essential to the aim you have set before you.

Digitized by CjOOQle
420

1.	—Medical inspection and treatment of school children mast: be made thoro and universal, so that no remediable defects shal. go uncorrected thru ignorance or carelessness.

2.	—Information about anatomy and physiology ipust be subordinated to a lively and intelligent interest in health and the common-sense ways of safe-guarding it.

3.	—All our boys and girls must be trained in wholesome athletic sports as the best means of building up a strong body and » the best insurance against mis-spent leisure time.

4— A scientific system of classification for athletic competition.	;

5.	—Standards that are stimulating to the best, but not dis-

heartening to the weaker ones.	*

6.	—Development along these lines to high school and college

students, and to the great body of working boys and girls.	j

7.	—The development of a graduated point system, as sug- ; gested here by Mr. Ball last year.

LEGITIMATE RECREATION ACTIVITIES WITH EMPHASIS ON THE COMPETITIVE.

By PHILIP C. JACOBUS, Board of Recreation, Philadelphia

When we consider the subject, what is legitimate in recreation, we are confronted with a great diversity of opinion both within the profession of Recreation workers and among the people in general. It is still an open question, for instance, if it is advisable to allow card playing, and in some sections of the country social dancing would have been difficult to introduce but for the fact that the Recreation Department was a new thing, and that we might expect new departures. Had the attempt been* made to introduce it into the schools, in some super-conservative towns it would have met considerable opposition.

General policies relating to the nature of the activities, or how they are to be conducted, vary just as greatly from the most restrictive policy to the most free, wherein the doors are thrown open and the people are told "this is your building, do as you like.”

In a broad, general way, anything not distinctly harmful that furnishes recreation, might be considered legitimate. Of course that which is the most elevating, which furnishes the best opportunity for developing the individual, is the activity to select. We can conceive however how a program purely "highbrow'' would fail to meet the needs of people in some districts, and again how a program, fitted to these folks, would really be lowering rather than elevating to other districts more cultured. The thing to do is to get the point of contact for the major por-

* Read at the Convention of the American Physical Education Association, Philadelphia, April 1918.

Digitized by

Google^
421

tion of the community and then gradually raise the standard as the folks respond. .These remarks apply mainly to the social side of our work, but the principle applies to our physical work as well, and particularly to the competitive or combative side which is the main burden of this paper. For example: can’t you conceive of a basket ball game, among rougher fellows that you would approve of, and yet expect a much better sort of game between two college teams. In fact you would referee them differently. Now this is not said as supporting low grade work or ideals but standards should not be held out of reach. Set the highest standard that will make a point of contact with your group and then raise it as fast as possible to higher levels.

Just here is where we must take into consideration nationality, state of culture and so on. Some neighboorhods will be made up of two or more distinct classes, but by proper planning all will be attracted. The less polished will benefit by their contact with the more polished, and at the same time by being careful that the rougher elements do not monopolize the place, and by keeping standards always upward bound, the better elements will not need to lower theirs. It is necessary for the management to select activities that will definitely appeal to those of greater education and refinement if they are to be retained to help (all unconsciously to them) to make the melting pot really melt.

Recreation activities may be passive or active in character, with the active of course the most important in developing the individual or group. The tendency toward watching others is crowding out initiative and self-reliance. Our opportunity is to give everyone a chance to join and take part. Our work to be legitimate must not overlook this.

We are taught that we play or recreate because of a surplus of energy beyond our actual needs. Ordinarily our activities for which we are paid or rewarded are considered work while those we pursue without reward are classed as play.

I would propose that any activity that we would pursue whether paid for or not can be, or is recreational.

We have the artist who paints pictures and sells them only because he needs the money; or the musician content to live humbly; or even the play leader who continues as such even tho.ugh his salary is less than he might receive in other pursuits. Thus we can have work and play oftentimes closely intertwined.

Stern necessity may require forgoing the satisfying of the desire to sing, to paint, to make music, to hunt, to wander on God’s green earth, but surely complete recreation must furnish to the greatest extent possible the opportunity for the individual to pursue the paths his instinct would lead him, the rehearsal of racial history in each, and to surmount, on the beautiful foundation of a good healthy body, a great breadth of culture. If our playgrounds and recreation centers contribute to this end there is a

Digitized by LaOOQle
422

permanent place for them, the greater and broader the greater the place.

Thus Recreational activities to be legitimate must be elevating, broadening, cultural, health and strength giving; constructive and not only negative; as applied to the particular group or district in hand. To be this they must be interesting, satisfying, of great variety. A complete program must include activities for all ages of both sexes, separately and together. The activities must be adapted to age groups and yet the family as a whole should be kept in mind and united or re-united in interests and finally in actuality.

If any activity does not answer these qualifications it should be dispensed with as a waster of time and effort. Mere standing about, in idle talk, horse play, lounging (not but what true resting, in proper amount, is needed by all of us) are of no use and in all probability distinctly hurtful since they usually lead to worse, and yet we find much of this on our playgrounds. Too much of any one thing no matter how good in itself, is not desirable as being narrowing, preventing the individual from securing the benefits to be derived from the other forms. Broadly speaking too, much of the intellectual prevents benefits of the physical and vice versa; more specifically, too much basket ball vs. gymnastics or even here vice versa in not having enough of the game element in gymnastics. And again, the bleacher athlete or might we not even say the bleacher musician, actor or performer of any kind becomes less and less capable of producing.

We should have plenty of do’s in our work and few don’ts. If we do the right things there will be no necessity of stopping the wrong for they no longer exist.

Any program which does not consider the family as a whole is far short of the mark. Our entire civilization is based on the family unit which broadened becomes the community. Civilization and especially the city life with its specialization sends one member of the family here, another there. Even our schools have now their Home and School Leagues to overcome the gap between the child at school and his home. The uniting of individuals is brought about by a common interest and so if we would keep our families intact all members should find their recreation ; at the same place, possibly at different times as need be. If we' then have an activity in which all may join at once we complete the arrangement. Thus 4th of July and May Day celebrations; Gymnastic Exhibitions and regular entertainments etc, in which some members of the family are taking part and others looking on are certainly big helps in fostering a common interest and a closer relationship in the family. Entertainments followed by dancing have a distinct value, lessened a little by the fact that the parents can’t dance the new dances. Whatever else the movies may be, the local shows by their cheapness, convenience in time do encourage the family group to a large extent. Our Recreation

Digitized by
423

centers thus have not only an opportunity but a duty to perform in the city complex.

Keeping this in mind we must plan for our Gymnastic classes, our games and leagues, club groups etc. in all of which the work is to be adapted to the age and sex, but by attending the same place though at different times, the unifying force is still present.

For the purposes of this paper we will divide our activities into Social and Physical. As in all cases in classifying it is difficult to draw the line and one class overlaps into the other, and while the social usually has little of the physical side, we all feel that the social end attained by many of our physical activities are many and important.

Social Dancing is no doubt classed as a social activity, yet the exercise of dancing has much hygienic value. And so we have many other activities with a dual value.

Under social activities the following might be considered legitimate:

Clubs of almost every sort

Dancing Classes, Dances and Parties

Entertainment—Lectures, etc.

Game Rooms and Parlor Games.

Demonstrations—4th of July, May Day, Flag Raising, Patriotic Demonstrations.

Most any activity is legitimate. The difficulty is in environment or method. The game of pool or pocket billiards is typical. The average corner pool room undoubtedly is harmful, but that is not because of anything wrong with the game itself. Taken from these surroundings and placed in the home, a Y. M. C. A. or a Recreation Center under proper supervision we have an interesting game of skill, quite some physical exercise and a good social pastime. Thus many games and pastimes are viewed in the wrong light. What is needed is intelligent direction. But in our directing we must be careful not to do all of the work. It is our task to make our individual groups and communities as thinking and as self-directing as possible. Any method that would cause them to become more dependent and lose initiative would be wrong. A scheme of committee service and representation in the thought and plan is essential.

Clubs are in this way particularly conducive toward self-government and are to be encouraged. If there is a definite object they will be successful. Mixed groups between the ages of 12 and 16 or 17 years of age are not desirable and will usually break up. Under 12 of course an adult leader is necessaiy. The so-called mixed social clubs not having some definite object other than parties, etc. even though past 16 years of age are usually not desirable. Under all circumstances a chaperon should be present to protect the group from idle gossip.

Digitized by UjOOQle
424

Mixed clubs for hiking or tramping, for tennis, for dramatics, i| singing or for any other real active object are usually successful J and produce good results. Boys clubs are usually athfetic in kind ' though good results are had from singing and musical groups. Minstrel Shows appeal to boys often otherwise difficult to reach. Scouting appeals to the early adolescent period of both boys and girls.

Social Dancing is condemned by some but here again it is a matter of environment; by giving our neighborhoods about as much dancing as they want under proper surroundings many will prefer not to frequent debasing dance halls or even rough dances. We might carry our opportunity a bit further and provide opportunity for group loyalty and interest to develop by having the dancing groups loosely organized into classes with committees and these committees prepare for parties and dances for the group. Aesthetic, Folk and Gymnastic dancing are all productive of good results and may be conducted separately or in conjunction with Gymnastic classes and even to some extent for boys and men.

There are always many people who find their recreation in being entertained. This is especially true of older folks. Where possible entertainments should be held regularly for these. This furnishes an opportunity for the more active to express themselves and show their ability in dramatics, music, gymnastics, etc. To produce the best results this active participation must run parallel with the passive looking on, with always the opportunity offered for	all to take part.	The quality of home talent may

not always be as high as desired, but it holds the interest, gives opportunity for self-expression, and with guidance and the importing from time to time of outside talent of a little better grade we have our upward trend assured.

An essential feature of any recreation center is a game room where may be found, checkers, dominoes, parchesi, crockinole, pool for older boys and for men, and as many other forms of these parlor games as possible. From time to time “Up Jenkins” and games of this sort should be played. Tournaments add zest and interest. The great value of the game room is its constant availability which therefore furnishes opportunity to play whenever time offers. It is not dependant on any class schedule. It is the recruiting place for clubs, classes, teams, etc.

Demonstrations such as 4th of July, May Day, Flag raising, etc. are not only legitimate but of importance in developing community interest and pride, and patriotism for Community, City, State and Country. At the present time our Recreation Centers, if they be real Community Centers, certainly should bring about the closest co-operation between the people and their elected representatives the National Government.

In our Physical work it is very important to grade the exercise or game to suit the age and the sex of the individual or group fom the standpoint of amount of energy' expended, difficulty in

___ Digitized by

Google
425

co-ordination or strength. Any activity not considered from these standpoints can hardly be considered legitimate. There is absolute need that our Physical Work be handled by people who have a thorough understanding of Physical Trailing. The possibility of injury from improper work and the consequent reflection on our work is too great to trifle with. And even granted that no direct injury is done, it is poor pedagogy that falls short of its possibilities. Surely activities not suited to age, sex or ability will not produce good results. The need of competent leadership is ever with us, and the hope is that our recreation work will not be forever doomed to an inferior existence by the inability of Recreation Departments to pay sufficient salaries to hold able leaders.

Any physical activity meeting the conditions previously mentioned should have a place in the program. The usual Day’s Order in the Gymnasium is fitting, especially when it concludes with a game. The definiteness of a prescribed program with its progression and proper dosage is an absolute necessity.

Only by analysis and synthesis can the best training in coordination of nerves and muscles be accomplished to say nothing of the hygienic and moral values.

All sorts of games should be at our fingers ends, from those of the simplest kind to the highest organized; from those with singing and pantomime to games of medium activity of middle-life; from the games of childhood to those of adolescence and maturity.

Gymnastic and Folk Dancing should have a place for all ages and both sexes separately and together. Let us hope that this world-old activity, used before the dawn of history, will be broadened because of our Recreation Centers into more than the one-step and its half brother the fox trot.

Track and Field sports always popular with the boy and young man are now interesting our girls and young women. With these latter care must be exercised in the selection of the events and in methods avoiding undue rivalry. The group method rather than the individual should be used to greater extent.

Competition - the fighting plays - always vigorous must have a large place in our work. No better training can be had for good health, fair play, courage, respect for others’ rights, co-operation, discipline, in a word citizenship, wholesome in mind and body. I believe that it was said by Wellington that the Battle of Waterloo was won on the play fields of Eton. The very large part that this sort of work plays, in our military camps, is just because of the recognition, on the part of the authorities, of the great value is possesses in developing vigorous upright manhood and in furnishing wholesome recreation at the same time. Surely this is the best argument in favor of competition for our growing boys and young men. While it is possible that competition for girls and young women is attended with bad feeling it is altogether possible to overcome this in time.

Digitized by LjOOQLe
426

The American youth of today crave is a natural desire and should be satisfied forcibly in the winter season when we have basket ball within bounds. With proper manage done with good results all around.

Competition because of its overwhelming inter and spectators alike has been subject to great abuse ofc Commercialism has entered in and capitalized this int plan catering to this condition is undesirable and legitimate for our purpose.

To properly regulate or manage competition it is for those of one mind to federate, and to draw up plans »| matches can be arranged productive of good results, such a way can certain fundamental principles be A system of recreation centers may have its Athletic Lea| in turn may (in fact should) be affiliated with the Natic controlling amateur sports.	^

With such an organization many matters of grave ance can be adjusted. Registration of amateurs; class according to sex-age, or height, or weight groups; divisional into districts; awards, records, etc. can be carefully arranged Playground having an Athletic Association should be h* sponsible for its members' amateur status, behavior, appc on time, etc.

We are now prepared for well regulated competition becomes a matter of what games or sports are to be foster how.

In the address by the president of our National at the opening of this convention he brought forcibly to oi tention that the practice in the army camps is to have all playing the game, not for one team to represent a regiment, oi a company. A million foot balls ordered for the English And to Play in war time! Surely an argument for contii our play and competitions at home. With the burden of the to be carried largely by our present youth at the conclusion otl war nothing must be lacking in their ability to measure up. )

There are two general methods in competition. Thatj which a team represents a great many, and the other just tioned in which the greatest possible number take part, first we will pass over with just a word. If by means of t< representing a playground we stimulate competition in gend set high standards of sportmanship and interpretation of etc. then is there a legitimate place for the representative tei plan. But even here we are able to bring many into the game by dividing into numerous classes of both sexes on an age or other basis. This can be still further extended by having many teams in a great variety of games.

The plans used to interest the many are several. Schools find that by dividing the entire school from top to bottom into two teams, for instance into the blues and the golds—with a

Digitized by

Google

*
427

system of scoring whereby the individual members add points, often extending into the academic work, good results are obtained. Another school method is to have a team from each room compete or one from each section.

For our Playground work the scheme of representative teams outlined above to lead the way is fine. Parallel with this we should conduct as many leagues as possible on the individual grounds. Care must be exercised to have teams of about the same age, weight etc. compete against each other. The method productive of the best results is to have as many clubs as possible organize teams for the games to be played. In addition to the benefits they receive physically and morally from the actual playing of the game, they have the training in initiative and management, in self direction.

To accomplish this it may be necessary to start in some cases with rather loosely organized teams wherein by working together the boys will develop a group loyalty finally expressed in a more compact organization, the club. Once having a number of these club units it becomes an easy matter to carry the group over from Base Ball, and Track and Field, etc. in the summer to Soccer, Basket Bill, etc. in the winter.

Color contests such as mentioned for schools are difficult to organize in the playground where no real registration exists. But a modified form can be used and is especially suited to the younger groups of boys and girls. A certain day each week can be set aside as Color Contest Day and the children can be registered for this contest according to their proper grade. The contest can then be held in the events decided on and the team scoring the greatest number of points may have the honor of flying their flag from the flag pole. This is one form; others will suggest themselves as best suited to the conditions present.

An attempt should be made to keep the same individuals always on the same side and in adding new names try to strengthen the weak team. Then if the score be kept for the season great interest can be aroused as first one color then another leads, and a big final day winds up the season. Contests of this character will often produce latent ability only discovered by accident.

The antagonistic exercises of wrestling and boxing have a place in our recreation work as a competitive exercise, more particularly if carried on in the group plan. The last named must be considered carefully in our public institutions because of things that commonly go with this form of exercise.

So we find as stated before that most any activity is legitimate if placed in a proper environment, the problem being the correct application of the activity to the particular individual or group in hand.

Digitized by Google
428

WEIGHT AND HEIGHT AT THE

By CARL H. BURKHARDT, Supervisor Physic

stun* j

Healthy children are a valuable asset to the and Nation, therefore it is the paramount duty of to promote and conserve the health of the children, child as has been said, is nine-tenths animal. If that., first requisite is then that children must be good characteristics of a good animal are: it eats well, sleeps' well and it enjoys life. If parents can say the same tl * children, they are indeed fortunate and they need not that the child is to continue to grow.

Let us consider the question for a moment. How do vt that children are physically normal? I suppose by visual 1 tion. A ruddy face, hardy appetite, always active di waking hours, followed by sound sleep, is enough to con-everybody that the child is normal. Very well, this is good-as far as it goes, but it does not go far enough. That may be a “skinny” or a so-called “old fatty”. It also unusually small or tall. At best such a visual inspection guess; it is altogether too crude for present day accompl:

In order to determine proper growth, development and noi it is necessary to make use of a scale and measuring rod or-Tables showing standard normal weight and height for yo old have already been worked out, making it easy for ani to discover whether or not they are below or above normal and height.

To know the weight, the height of the child is of utmost portance, and no less is this true of the adult, particularly the wei| of the latter. Weight and height if compared with the nor or standard, reveal to us the true physical condition. Like thermometer shows us the daily fluctuations of temperature, the scales and measuring rod is the criterion by which we can ju<! accurately the physical condition of the child. In the past, and measuring tape meant very little to the average person, casionally when a baby was bom, a proud parent would take ti and systematically weigh the baby. He knows that when a ba steadily gains weight, it is a sign of good health. Should the babj weight appear less one week than another, the parents will wor they will at once consult their physician and this either resi in a change of food or time of feeding.

Now there we have the truth in a nutshell. Why is this care : and watchfulness not carried out thru the period of the growth of the child and up to maturity? Do we love the child less after its first year? Hardly. If this weighing and measuring were done throughout the years of growth, the percent of men rejected by local draft boards would have been very small.

A movement to make use of the scale and tape measure for the conservation of the child is now on foot. The Child Health Or-

Digitized by

Goo<
429

ganization of No. 289 Fourth Avenue, New York City, is promoting this new method of Health Education. This sane and practical scheme of Health Education has been worked out by Dr. W. R. P. Emerson in his malnutrition clinic at the Massachusetts General Hospital. By the way, it might be of interest to know that Dr. Emerson is a nephew of Edward D. Emerson, present chairman of the Buffalo Board of Education. Further information can be had by writing to the Child Health Organization. Tape measure and scales are the only equipment necessary. Tables or standards of normal weight and height for boys and girls, have been prepared by Dr. Thomas D. Wood.

In connection with the above it may be said that the mature

?erson may profit much by stepping on the scale occasionally.

ou who are overweight, remember that you are carrying a burden that may break down your health. Overweight is always a disadvantage and should be avoided, especially by those approaching middle-life. Keep your weight about the average figure for age 30, and do not let it creep up as you become older. Those who are pale and thin and losing weight, watch your weight and color. The Life Extension Institute of New York City prescribes but two remedies:—First, by exercise,—Second, by regulation of the diet. The following is a table of Heights and Weights at age 30. (Most favorable for average person thereafter throughout life).

Men:	Women:

Height		Weight	Height			Weight
5 ft. 0 in.		126	4 ft.	, 8	in.	112
5 ” 1	it	128	4 ”	9	tt	114
5 ” 2	ft	130	4 ”	10	tt	116
5 ” 3	ft	133	4 ”	11	rt	118
5 ” 4	ft	136	5 ”	0	tt	120
5 ” 5	ft	140	5 ”	1	tt	122
5 ” 6	ft	144	5 ”	2	tt	124
5 ” 7	ft	148	5 ”	3	tt	127
5 ” 8	ft	152	5 ”	4	tt	131
5 ” 9	ft	156	5 ”	5	tt	134
5 ” 10	ft	161	5 ”	6	tt	138
5 ” 11	ft	166	5 ”	7	rt	142
6 ” 0	ft	172	5 ”	8	ft	146
6 ” 1	ft	178	5 ”	9	tt	150
6 ” 2	ft	184	5 ”	10	tt	154
6 ” 3	ft	190	5 ”	11	rt	157
6 " 4	tt	196	6 ”	0	tt	161
6 ” 5	ft	201				

(Height and weight taken with coat and vest or waist off, and in shoes).

A few interesting facts concerning growth in weight and height of children according to Tyler; fall is the time of rapid increase in weight, and spring and early summer of increase in height. Growth during winter is usually slow.

. _ ?.

Digitized by Google
430

A normal baby gams from one to two pounds a month until about five months old, and after that from half a pound to one pound a month until it is a year old. The average weight of a newborn baby is about seven and a half pounds. At the end of one year, a normal baby will average twenty to twenty-two pounds in weight, and in height, a little less than 30 inches. .	.	u

The child at three weighs 30 lbs; and measures about 36 inches. At six it weighs about 45 lbs. and is 44 inches tall. The growth of boys and girls is the same up to the sixth year. The child has a little less than one pound of weight for each inch of height.

The child at nine weighs about 60 lbs and is 50 inches tall. The girl is a little lighter than the boy.

The bov at twelve weighs about 77 lbs. and is 55 inches tell; and at fifteen 107 lbs. and 63 inches tall. The girl is slightly neavier Ki hoy both at twelve and fifteen, for her increase in growth and weight comes	earlier.)

During the period of at ini

ually attained her full heigh I asjvell._The boy has still to

Concerning the consumption of food growing child, it might be interesting to kno tween two and five averages about forty per tion of the adult man engaged in moderate nu child from six to nine requires about fifty per cent

*1 at sixteen has usher adult weight :ts.	'.4

ous ages of the that a child be-int of the food ra-ular work. The Boys at twelve

and girls at thirteen or fourteen, require sever ^ Per ?en£'	^,e

boy of fifteen and sixteen requires ninety per cen^’ ana ^he £irs of same age about eighty per cent.

The great value that comes to us fn-,m the use of the scale and measuring tape is readily seen. Jr* the near future it will be our business to see if our boys and git ^ measure up to the standard or normal weight and height. Tho-C is another side of it equally important, and that is to work our physical standards; in other words, to prepare normal averages of physical work based upon height, weight and age. We must know what physical performances we can expect from a normal boy and girl at a certain age. What a delight it will be for the boy and girl to know that he or she is able to run, to jump, to throw the ball, to climb, to walk, to swim, etc. a certain distance or within a certain time as required according to a definite standard. Such physical examinations or tests will aid considerably in the up-building of the human body and the same time will raise the standard of physical efficiency.



Digitized by boogie
431

PROGRAM OF RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES IN THE RECONSTRUCTION HOSPITALS

by

THE AMERICAN RED CROSS and

THE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION of

THE DIVISION OF PHYSICAL RECONSTRUCTION Surgeon General's Office, Dec. 6th, 1918.

The activities herein outlined are to be carried on by the Department of Education of the Division of Physical Reconstruction, and the American Red Cross, as indicated, in the General Hospitals functioning in Physical Reconstruction.

The purposes of the recreational work in Physical Reconstruction Hospitals are:

1.	To induce in the individual patient a state of mind, and in the institution a general spirit that facilitates recovery.

2.	To provide beneficial therapeutic exercises for all patients.

3.	To provide for the patients such diversion and training as will contribute to recovery and at the same time fit them on recovery for better service to the army, navy and society.

4.	To maintain in the able-bodied personnel a spirit of cheerfulness and interest in the work in the institution.

Because of the ready response in all human beings to games and other recreational activities, this work most easily directs the mind of a patient from his ailments toward wholesome activities, builds up an institutional morale, and ultimately a desire for social service. Incidentally, the spirit resulting from the recreational activities makes easier the work of every department of a hospital.

The American Red Cross will be primarily responsible for Social Recreation as indicated in Part 1 hereof, and the Department of Education of the Division of Physical Reconstruction will be primarily responsible for Physical Education in Recreation as indicated in Part II hereof.

It is essential that a spirit of entire accord and co-operation between these interests and their representatives be definitely evident, and that the two phases of the work shall supplement each other, and in order to aid in securing unity of effort, the Director of the Department of Education of the Division of Physical Reconstruction, either directly or through the Recreational Officer^ will exercise general supervision over all recreational activities.

A supplemental program of recreational activities for the able-bodied personnel attached to such hospitals is included in Part I, and the primary responsibility for execution thereof is vested in the American Red Cross.

Digitized by CaOOQle
1

432

It is contemplated that the American Red Cross will furnish all required equipment, personnel and supplies, through i“ partment of Military Relief, to properly undertake and cam out the programs for which it is primarily responsible, and that it will make such use of other affiliated agencies already existing and available, as will avoid a duplication of effort and expense; but that its direct responsibility and control will not be in any manner delegated to such other agencies.

Organization of the Recreational Phase of the Educational Service in General Hospitals Functioning in Physical Reconstruction.

PART I.

Activities of the American Red Cross.

The following are the phases of the recreational program for the designated hospitals for which the American Red Cross is primarily responsible:

1.	Entertainment and Recreation in Convalescent Houses*

(a)	To maintain, through the American Library Association, a library of technical works, approved fiction, current magazines, periodicals and newspapers (“home town papers when practicable,) and to make them available to the patients. To make known to the patients the existence of the library, and encourage its use by them, by use of posters, circulars, etc.

(b)	To organize, encourage and conduct reading circles, debates, story-telling hours, etc.

(c)	To provide training in amateur theatricals.

(d)	To provide leadership for the development of bands and orchestras, arrange enlistment for training of the men, place and hours of individual and group practice; supply instruments and music, and to co-operate with the hospital authorities in the use of such bands and orchestras as may be organized.

(e)	To provide leadership for the development of singing, individually and in groups such as trios, quartettes, etc., and of community singing.

(f)	To furnish and maintain a supply of writing materials, and tablets or desks at which letter-writing may be done, to encourage correspondence.

(g)	'

(h)

(i)

To furnish and maintain an equipment of indoor game such as cards, checkers, chess, dominoes, crokinole, etc To furnish and maintain musical equipment of player piano, phonograph, and rolls and records therefor.

To furnish stereoscopes, and a supply of photograph chosen with particular reference to their educations value, for use therewith.



Digitized by
433

(j)	To present at regular intervals entertainments of motion pictures, professional talent, concerts, musicals, etc.

(k)	To organize and supervise social functions such as dances, receptions, etc., for patients.

(l)	To supply fruit, and flowers; smoking materials and approved refreshments in convalescent houses and to supervise “winter evening” recreations such as popping com, roasting apples and marshmallows, etc., at fireplaces.

2.	Entertainment and Recreation in Wards.

(a)	To furnish “home newspapers” to patients when practicable, and in any event the best available daily newspapers; to arrange that items of general current interest be read, and to distribute books, magazines and reading matter.

(b)	To regularly distribute a supply of writing materials, postcards, etc., and encourage the writing of letters.

(c)	To furnish and maintain such games as may be suitable, such as checkers, cards, picture puzzles, etc.

(d)	To furnish and maintain an equipment of phonographs and an assortment of records, the latter to be circulated from ward to ward in such manner as will insure frequent change and variety of selections.

(e)	To furnish stereoscopes, and an assortment of photographs chosen with particular reference to educational value, the latter to be circulated from ward to ward so as to insure frequent change in assortment available in a particular ward.

(f)	To present at regular intervals entertainments of motion pictures, professional talent, musicians, singers, etc.

(g)	To supply fruit, flowers, smoking materials, etc.

3.	Entertainment and Recreation Out-of-Doors.

(a)	To provide tools, seeds, etc., for the planting of flower gardens, windows boxes of plants, vines or trellis, etc., about convalescent houses.

(b)	The arrangement and supervision of auto rides; matinees at theatres, and the transportation involved in such activities.

4.	Entertainment and Recreation For Able-Bodied Personnel.

(a)	To provide ample reading and writing facilities.

(b)	To furnish and maintain an equipment of indoor games such as cards, checkers, dominoes, etc.

(c)	To provide leadership and instruction in individual, group and community singing.

Digitized by tjOOQle
434

(d)	To provide instruction in and encourage the development of amateur theatricals, debates, lecturing, etc.

(e)	To provide instruction in, and encourage the development of musical1 activities, mandolin and guitar clubs, etc.

(f)	To present at regular intervals entertainments of motion pictures, professional talent, lectures, concerts, etc.

(g)	To provide for, and supervise, such social functions as dances, receptions, etc.

(h)	To arrange for participation in exercises and games such as tennis, basket-ball, hand-ball, croquet, etc.

5.	Supplemental Services.

To arrange for personal religious services and ministrations in wards at the request of individual patients.

PART II.

Functions of the Department of Education of the Division of Physical Reconstruction.

The following are the phases of the recreational program for the designated hospitals for which the Department of Education of the Division of Physical Reconstruction is primarily responsible:

1.	General Supervision of All Recreational Activities.

(a)	To directly, or through its Recreational Officer, have general supervision of all recreational activities, and to work out in co-operation with the Field Director of the Red Cross the daily schedule.

(b)	To co-operate with the properly accredited representatives of the American Red Cross in planning and accomplishing those activities for which that organization is held primarily responsible.

(,c) To make recommendations, according to the needs of the situation, that the scope and extent of the activities allotted to the American Red Cross be either enlarged or diminished.	;

2.	Educational and Recreational Activities.

(a)	Determination with the medical officers of the games and sports suited to individuals or groups of men, and selection of approved games and sports to attain desired therapeutic ends.

(b)	Enlist the men in such activities, and supervise the leadership and playing of such games as baseball, indoor baseball, basket-ball, volley-ball, hand-ball, dodge-ball, tennis, boxing, wrestling, soccer, croquet, golf, golf-putting, horseback riding, bowling on the green, camping, canoeing, rowing, rifle-shooting, pistol practice, quoits, rope-whipping, knot-tying, first-aid and bandage-

Digitized by
435

ing, signalling, tree and flower identification, use of pocket compass, route sketching or elementary mapmaking, fire making and building, shuttle races, dismounted cowboy pole, prisoner’s base, shinney, potato race, fencing, track-meet, etc. (Special games for one-armed and one-legged men.)

(c)	In co-operation with the Department of Physiotherapy to provide physical training to secure the therapeutic ends desired for individuals and groups of men.

(d)	To work out special exercises for each of the larger groups represented in Reconstruction Hospitals.

(e)	The Chief of the Educational Service, in co-operation with other departments, to provide for the editing and publication of the hospital paper.

(f)	To train the staff devoted to recreational work.

MILITARY TRAINING AS A FACTOR IN PUBLIC HEALTH*.

By CHARLES O. LINDER, M. D., Spokane, Wash., Member of Health and

It is universally conceded that physical education and training, especially as a preventive against the high percentage of defectives, should begin in early school days. Attention should be given to habits, hygiene, teeth, ears, eyes, nose, throat, feet, etc. Modem school boards are doing much to correct many defects pertaining to the throats and eyes of school children, but in earlier days such matters were considered absolutely no business of the school authorities.

It is safe to say that the total rejection rate, (in the recent draft), for physical reasons, lies between thirty and forty per cent, and this in the group of most favorable ages—twenty one-to thirty-one years.

Flatfoot and deformities are mostly reflections of muscular impairment or faulty footgear and improper posture.

Note:	In	reading this article the thought that constantly occurred to us was

Why does the author of this paper use the title ‘‘Military Training, etc.” What he really is speaking of is “Physical Training.” It is just the kind of physical training that we have been advocating for years; real physical training that leads to something definite. And if the many physicians that at present are speaking and writing of military training would only take the time and visit schools where a practical system of physical training and athletics for all enrolled boys and girls is being taught they would be a help to us instead of a hindrance. Editor.

Sanitation Committee, Spokane Chamber of Commerce. Abstracted from N. Y. Med. Journ., Dec. 16, 18 and Jan. 11, 19 By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Newark, N. J.

I.

Digitized by
436

Let us remember that sixty per cent of this sub dition is preventable; that thirty per cent is due to physical conditions remedial by proper nutrition training and hygiene; that thirty per cent is due to de and bad mouth conditions; and that ten per cent is due to surgery.

The digest of the Provost Marshal General's report earij year gives the rejection rate, for physical reasons, as 29.13 cent of all those examined in all local boards. In addition it must be remembered that an average of 5.8 per cent will be fij rejected before the troops are inducted into active service, figures are compiled as a result of the examination of men most favorable age group, from twenty-one to thirty-one ye

The intense interest in the findings of the draft examinati can be utilized to arouse the people to their need of physical velopment. There can be no doubt, with the figures facing of the need of child hygiene, of the tremendous importance universal physical training and of standardized periodical physic examination. Entirely apart from the actual reclamation of istrants, an immense stimulus can be given to the popular moi ment for physical reform and for higher ideals of health and hygie

Under proper military training where discipline is suprei proper habits of cleanliness are formed. Training in acci and in precision of thought and action, regular hours and reg meals, regular nine o'clock retiring and early rising, learning obey and to devote spare time to self-improvement in varic ways, will have its effect upon the men thus trained and ens" them to carry on their vocations more efficiently when this war; over.

By proper modern military training the soldier boy, inste of being a weakling, becomes a strong and healthy man. Eve day drilling develops the muscles, builds up and strengthens body. He learns to do his duties during each and every day. T1 instruction in health habits will have a lasting effect and make hi as nearly as possible immune to sickness.

The result of military training, discipline, and instruction health habits are clearly shown in a report from one of the training camps in the Middle West which did not have one death amoni its 50,000 men for one week—in August of this year—a very differeni and gratifying record from that which terrified the American peopl during the Spanish American War twenty years ago, when the death rate at concentration camps was twenty-five out of every thousand soldiers. Even at the time of America's entrance into the present conflict the death rate at the concentration camps was rather on the increase, but marked improvement in health conditions has taken place within the last few months. The nation has found a scientific, dependable way to gather its young manhood in concentration camps, cure their minor ailments, build up their physical strength and constitutional vigor, discipline and train them for better service in civilian pursuits, and in vario
437

other ways make them efficient, patriotic, and intelligent citizens. We have done this fine work under the whip and spur of a terrific war, but the benefits thus conferred upon the country's youth are no less valuable in time of peace than in stress of war. The lessons which have been taught to boys to avoid preventable diseases and their being brought to a state of physical well-being as a result of military training, will result in lasting benefit to the com-' munity, whether the boys are in or out of the army.

When the public has been convinced of what modern military training can accomplish with our youth, the question of universal physical training will have taken a long step forward.

II.

Now that the interest of the general public in this country has at last been aroused concerning a proper preparation for the military and naval defense of the United States in connection with the ending of the world's war, it seems timely to discuss, from the standpoint of public health, the individual advantages which might be derived from systematic military training in this country.

Under a system of military training, many of the physical defects mentioned in my former article could be discovered and corrected, if this had not been done during the school age. It might be interesting at this time to discuss the causes of the various defects. It will be helpful, therefore, to consider the question of growth first. Growth is the most rapid during the first five years of life. Then it slows down for from three to seven years with occasional spurts; from twelve or fourteen years of age to the eighteenth year it is again rapid. Mental growth is in sympathy with physical development, there being periods of intellectual inactivity; and it would appear that frequently mental dullness accompanies unusual physical growth. Our great philosopher, Herbert Spencer, described this phenomena in his own case. It, stands to reason that if an increased demand is made upon nutrition for the growth of the frame, there will be manifested a disinclination for mental work. If this is true of the well nourished schoolboy, how much more likely is it to occur in the case of the children of the poor, who are unwholesomely and insufficiently fed and who are living in unsanitary conditions.

The infant is allowed to stand and walk too soon, long before his limbs can support his body without risk, and a little later he has bow legs, his growth becomes stunted, and he loses the symmetry which gives grace to the human figure. It is a very sad picture.

The enormously high rate of mortality in the first five years of life is well known. It is associated with rapid constitutional changes which depend upon growth, and is due to the fact that those changes occur at a time of life when children are helpless. They also lead, under certain conditions, to impaired physique and to special defects of the frame and of the limbs of locomotion.
488

In early childhood it is the physical and moral education ^ which requires first attention, the reasoning powers being allowed ! to develop by observation of surrounding objects and by sym- 1 pathetic instruction. The moral wellbeing of the child depends ; upon its health, for the emotional side of human nature is strong : in the young. Therefore, to guide it into healthy channels, the " child should have physical education. It is also the best preparation for its mental development. All this may be very commonplace, but it is persistently neglected in the education of the child. As boys grow older, the range of mental work can be enlarged until it is possible to fix a time limit. Authorities on this subject have considered that during growing childhood, the twenty-four hours of the day should be divided up as follows: work seven hours, meals and play seven hours, and sleep ten horns.

Professor Howard Marsh, in his Hunterian Lecture has a chapter entitled, The Influence of Growth on Deformities, in which he shows how growth under favorable conditions tends to correct deformities, especially deformities contracted in childhood; and how with proper care the injurious effects of malnutrition can be corrected. Fatigue and strain must be avoided; walking, swimming, and outdoor games give sufficient exercise.

We know that it is quite Impossible to raise, by voluntary recruitment, an efficient army for home defense and for service abroad in time of war. That is one of the lessons learned at the beginning of this war. The duty of the nation is plain: it must deal with the raw material just as it is—and that without delay in the interests of both national health and military efficiency, which can only be done by the removal of young men from their present surroundings and by placing them under improved sanitary conditions, where they will receive careful physical and moral training.

III.

Now let us turn our attention for a few moments to the subject of defective development. Under this topic we find underweight, underheight, underchest measurement which have been the cause of rejection in about thirty per cent of the total rejections to the British Army, and which perhaps will be found to be the cause of about eighteen per cent of the rejections to the American Army under the relaxed war standard. These defects are due to hereditary causes, defective nutrition, want of fresh air, and lack of personal cleanliness.

While the writer served in the United States Army during the Spanish-American War, various diseases contracted by soldiers came under his personal observation during his four years of service in the field and hospitals. Nearly all such diseases could have been prevented, had proper precaution been taken. We have learned the lesson from previous experiences that prevention b better than cure. It is said that an individual will learn and profit


439

from experiences through which he has lived, and if this is true of an individual, it holds true of a nation as a whole also.

The death rate during infancy and childhood is not so great at present as it used to be, owing to more intelligent care of young children and to the greater knowledge of hygiene. At the age of forty, however, the mortality is greater now than it was thirty years ago. This is true of both men and women. The diseases of degeneration are increasing, especially those involving the kidneys, heart, and bloodvessels, particularly among persons not employed at manual labor. One reason for this is the lessened physical, and the increased mental work entailed by our complex industrial and commercial fabric. More people are engaged in sedentary occupations than formerly. More nervous energy is required of a man. Deprived of the natural assistance which physical exercise affords in eliminating the waste products of the body through skin and lungs, the kidneys become overloaded and fail, lacking the normal assistance which working muscles give to circulation as they urge the blood and lymph onward in the natural channels and over-loaded with poisons which brain work cannot bum up as physical exercise will, the arteries become brittle and weak and the heart muscles flabby, like the biceps of its unfortunate possessor. The florid business man succumbs to apoplexy, perhaps; another big pasty complexioned brainworker, to nephritis; another to a fatty heart, or to chronically overtaxed digestion; all of which could have been postponed, at least, for many years, by a moderate amount of daily exercise. And if proper habits of exercise and proper habtis of living had been established in early youth, death by these conditions would have been prevented.

I believe that it is the almost universal testimony of men who have excelled in any branch of life in this country, that one of the most difficult lessons which the young American boy must learn before he can properly progress in any line of activity is discipline. Accidents on the railroad, in the factory, in the operating rooms, failure in positions of trust, whatever they may be, are in great part due to lack of schooling in simple obedience and in the spirit of true discipline. A thorough basing in this rudimental virtue is what we ask of ourselves and what many of us gain only by costly and sad experience. Discipline never truly subordinates the mind that has opinions of its own, nor does it humiliate or debase the body; but proper subordination and obedience inculcate pride and honor and prepare for authority and command. Promptness and dispatch are other military qualities of inestimable value to young men. Do we not daily see the need of such training, at the bedside, in the clinic, on the street, everywhere?

Let it be understood that children need physical training when they are young as well as older persons. This should include girls as well as boys and should begin between the ages of five and twelve years. If the boy and girl are started at that time we may depend upon their physical development coming along

Digitized by i^ooQle
440

in splendid shape. What we shall do with the boy and girl when they come out .of school will depend upon the conditions after this war. We have developed among our people much life outdoors, but, even so, something effective will have to be done if we want to obviate existing conditions of physical inefficiency. Physical training should not cease with school days. There is an interval between school life and manhood which is of the utmost importance, because it is at that time the boy's life is directed for good or evil.

In summing up what has thus far been presented on this subject, it would seem that national service or universal physical ■ training is the only agency by which the measures mentioned could be'effectively carried out; there is no other schooling, to the know- J ledge of the writer, which will develop the physique and at the same time teach young men order and method, and obedience to i authority. It is true that in a number of schools and colleges a ; certain semblance of military training is already provided; but, as yet, except in a few excellent private military schools, this part of the course is superficial and inadequate; and not much has thus far been achieved in regard to discipline and obedience to authority.

The advantages to the country from universal physical train-ng would be:	First,	that it would be saved from panic in time

of war and from the enormous waste of money that unpreparedness for war entails; second, that the present waste from death and from invaliding caused by low physical standards would cease; third, that with improved health and with higher moral tone the efficiency of the American boy would be increased. He would be imbued with habits of order and selfrestraint and would be of inestimable value to the community and nation.

Whether the physical training of our youth is conducted in special branches of our universities and colleges or in special military schools, the same should be under strict supervision of the federal Government in order to produce uniform and proper training and so that a proper discipline and course of instruction may be enforced.

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN FRANCE.

By A. GERTRUDE JACOB, Jamaica High School, Jamaica L. I.

Much has been written on the subject of physical training and recreation in camp life and for soldiers in the field in war ridden France, but very little has been said of the subject for the civil population of that benighted country. Yet never in the history of the world was there a greater need than that which exists today, for ministering to the physical welfare of the people of those countries which are actually bearing the brunt of the war.

As a member of the Friends' Reconstruction Unit of The Red Cross it was my privilege to spend the greater part of the year

Digitized by Google
441

1918 in France, engaged in work solely with the French women and children. My deductions therefore, are made wholly from my own experience.

To begin with, one must always bear in mind that France is a land of mourning. In every church in every city, in every town, in every village, in every hamlet in France today hangs the list of those who have given their lives in answer to their country's call. Tolling of bells and prayers for the dead are common episodes. War and war’s losses are forever before the eyes of the people. I doubt if a family could be found that had not given to the cause some friend or relative. As a result there is a pall of gloom that cannot be shaken off.

To counteract this then, is perhaps the first and greatest need from the standpoint of a physical trainer. Realizing this necessity I began at our hospital at Bettancourt, Marne, to try an antidote in the shape of dancing. I formed a class for our native French workers and we held one lesson where, for a time at least, cares were forgotten.

The next week the great German drive had begun, it looked as though we too, would have to evacuate, and naturally there was no enthusiasm for dancing. Instead the evenings were spent as before, poring over the newspapers and talking of the final outcome.

Prior to the dancing class we had tried an entertainment and invited the villagers. The Oxdans in appropriate costume held them quite fascinated. It had to be repeated "tout de suite". In the midst of the second performance it was my turn to be interested. One of my patients, a man who had lost his only son when the Germans took the village, had so far forgotten himself that he was hopping up and down and convulsed with laughter was pounding out time with his fists on the table. One lady when asked afterwards whether she could dance replied, "When I was young there is no one who could dance lighter than I. I could have danced on water." She w7as urged to come again and dance but she answered, "we have other work to do now and our boys are in the trenches."

That was the key note. How could we, foreigners in a sense, counteract the gloom of the boys being in the trenches!

I invited the village children to form a gymnastic class. School closed for the summer holidays shortly after and they preferred helping in the fields or the wild life of roving at will to being taught physical training without a gymnasium and without apparatus.

Finally through private contributions I was able to get some French phonograph records including some songs and dances for the children.

They proved to be a godsend. The children in the house caught up the tunes and sang and danced in the greatest abandon what had been sung and danced for generations in France. I extended my experiment and with the aid of a baby coach I wheeled

Digitized by C.ooQle
442

the phonograph down to the village and gave an open air evening j concert. I chose a nice grassy spot by the side of the main village * street and just in front of the cobbler’s shop. He loaned a table ' and some one else brought a lamp and then the audience collected. There were about one hundred all told which included not only the 1 greater part of the villagers with their children but a number of j soldiers. They listened in silent delight to what must have meant ■ to them real forgetfulness. The experiment was such a success ; that it was repeated several times. When I gave the last con- J cert a day or two before I left, the villagers, with tears not very far off, begged me to carry their thanks to the kind American friends I who had supplied the money that had enabled me to give them this ! pleasure. I can still picture them as they wrung my hand at parting, and that picture is so vivid, that perhaps it is why I would ; place the need for recreation, for forgetfulness, as the first and ; biggest need that there is in France today from the standpoint of our profession.

Not far behind, however, is the necessity for medical gymnastic work.

With the dearth of fresh food containing vitamines, the children have to subsist largely on sour war bread. It is so coarse 1 and indigestible that their poor little bodies do not get the proper amount of nourishment, their muscles are flabby, their stomachs distended to almost twice the normal size and their bones are soft and often badly deformed. Never before have I seen in one small area so many cases of rickets, knock-knees and spinal curvature as around our hospital at Bettancourt. Conditions this winter are probably worse. The potato and apple crops were both failures and fresh vegetables could scarcely be bought even in midsummer. I do not know how foods rich in minerals can be supplied for even dried fruits so plentiful with us, are almost unknown and also prohibitive in price.

Another fact must be considered in connection with these children.

With the fathers in the trenches, the mothers and even grandfathers and grandmothers in the fields, they are left to run wild or else placed under the care of the older brothers and sisters. Small wonder is it then that babies have been urged to walk long before they were ready for it, and that the bones were actually bent out of shape by the flabby overweight of their bodies. Too much starch of any kind produces overweight and even war bread is no exception to the rule.

Tuberculosis is also rife in France today and the need for physical training amongst this class of sufferers is really desperate.

In my work at the pre-tubercular home for Consumptives at Samoens I found that none of my patients knew how to breathe properly. Many of them had been German prisoners and of course had suffered privations.

The quick way in which they responded to good care and corrective exercises was little short of marvellous.
443

uncommon to have a patient gain from an inch to an inch and a half on ninth rib expansion alone. Even the bed patients when allowed to get up for a few minutes daily exercise showed remarkable gains.

Last in the list I would place educational gymnastic work. It is needed and badly needed for those children who have been allowed to run wild in the devastated regions, those who have been German prisoners, and those whose nervous systems have been wrecked by bombardments.

Even here, control may be obtained through games and plays far quicker than by formal gymnastics. As I look back now at my first attempts to teach these little human wild animals, I realize that all pedagogical rules had to be set aside. How could I for instance, chide a boy who loved to fall down with an unearthly scream just at the time it would distract the attention of the whole class and start pandemonium; when he cowered like a frightened animal if I spoke sharply, the result of being put up to be shot by the Germans. Yes, a gentle lovable child of seven years of age. No amount of physical training will erase that experience from his young life. Then there was Rene. He never went without his capachin hood. Once I tried making him remove it, in the house. In a few minutes he was twitching almost convulsively. The child had been in so many bombardments that noise was torture to him. The hood deadened the sound at least.

France has paid dearly for this war and will pay for years to come not only in mourning for her dead, but in watching over her broken little children. Upon them her future depends. There is a splendid field for work for our profession but first of all good food is needed.

Exercise trains but it cannot make tissue. We must strive to save food to help to send it across the water to those who blazed the trail of “making the world safe for democracy.”

BREAST STROKE SWIMMING PASSING

By EMILY W. ELMORE, Roycemore School, Evanston, 111.

I have noticed during the past two or more years, that the breast stroke is being taught less and less to beginners, and is seldom used by the more expert swimmers. I have regretted this departure because I feel that the breast stroke is so valuable and practical in so many ways. I asked one instructor in a girls’ camp why he stopped using it, and he replied that it was so much more difficult to learn than the crawl, or sculling on the back, others could be so quickly mastered. He added, that it was a much slower stroke and for that reason it was going out of fashion. I did not feel that it is harder to learn the breast stroke. — Yet I feel that in the end, it is a much more valuable stroke from a physiological standpoint, and it is also more practical and useful in the long run, especially for girls and women. Of course, I do not advise the

Digitized by
444

teaching of the breast stroke to the exclusion of all others, for it is exceedingly valuable to have a variety of strokes. It is often a great encouragement to a beginner to find that he can at least keep himself up in the water and even propel himself some distance, after only a few lessons, but I ted sure that no girl can be a good long distance swimmer, nor can she be said to get the greatest benefit from swimming unless she has the breast stroke as her “main stay and support/' The great tendency with beginners is to breathe much faster than is necessary, or not to breathe at all, until they are compelled to stop and restore normal respiration. I think that the crawl stroke is especially conducive to this fault, since it is done rather rapidly and the breathing is necessarily more gasping when taken between two or more successive strokes. I have often noticed that even with girls who have mastered the crawl, they never continue it for very long, but constantly alternate with sculling on the back, or swimming on the side or some other more restful stroke, showing that it requires a greater outlay of strength, and greater endurance, and is not so practical for a long swim.

One of the greatest benefits derived from the breast stroke j is that of the deep rhythmical breathing which it involves when done correctly, and the corresponding expansion of the chest and increase in lung capacity. It is a perfectly symmetrical stroke, the body lying fiat out on the water, and as the arms sweep around, describing an arc on each side of the body, being forced well back, before the hands meet in front of the chest, to shoot forward again, the chest is fully expanded giving ample space for the deep breath which is taken into the lungs during the stroke; then as the arms shoot forward the impure air is forcibly expelled through the mouth and you are ready for the next deep inhalation. Thus all parts of the lungs are thoroughly aerated and ventilated. At the same time the legs are going through their strokes — up, out, together, and as the muscles contract vigorously, the need for the deep breathing increases as the supply of oxygen is used, so that one is a necessary adjunct to the other. There is almost a complete respite between each cycle of the breast stroke; just after the arms have shot forward the resulting momentum enables the swimmer to lie flat out on the water as his body glides forward. It is for this reason that the stroke is so valuable in distance swimming since the alternation of activity and rest makes it possible to continue it almost indefinitely with perfect ease and comfort. It is therefore a much less fatiguing stroke for girls or children, whether for long or short distances, and the benefits derived are very marked.

To obviate some of the difficulties encountered in learning the stroke, I often begin by teaching pupils on land, where all sense of fear is eliminated and closer attention can be given to the stroke itself. In Newfoundland where the water in the ocean was often too cold for children to stay for any length of time, I used to teach them first the arm stroke alone, and then have them lie flat on the floor to get the leg motions, and to try to coordinate the two. Then

Digitized by

Google
415

when that was learned, we went into the water, and by holding to the pier with the hands, they did the leg stroke alone. Then by means of a belt around the waist, to which a rope was fastened, I took them out into deeper water from the end of the pier or side of a boat, where they learned to use both arms and legs together. Of all the pupils that I have taught, children or grown''people, timid or brave, I think none of them have failed to master the stroke by the end of a week. They usually practiced from twenty to twenty-five minutes in the water, supplementing it by practice on land. Many learned in less than a week. I have seen many girls who were taught the crawl, or other strokes, still unable to swim more than a few yards without stopping to “pant” for breath, after two weeks of training, often going in twice a day, and staying in for a half hour at a time. So I maintain, that although the ability to use these other strokes for a short distance is easily and quickly acquired, they are not really as good in the long run as the breast stroke for when it is once mastered it is of practical value immediately, and it is either learned correctly or not at all. If one can take ten strokes in the right way he can take twenty or thirty with the same ease, and all the time positive physical benefits are being derived from the exercise. There are many who prefer the side, to the breast stroke, but my objection to that, at least as a substitute for the latter, is, that it is more asymmetrical, and I do not feel that the same chest expansion or lung development is possible with it, when continued for any length of time. Until I have seen more examples of good swimmers who never use the breast stroke, and who are superior in endurance and ability to those who do, I shall continue to teach the breast stroke even though it may be old fashioned and slow, for I feel that the advantages outnumber the losses.

Since writing the above, I have come across an article by Walter Eckersall in a recent number of the Milwaukee Sentinel in which he states that the breast stroke is being adopted by the U. S. Navy as the most practical for all conditions, especially in the matter of life saving. In a list of swimming and life-saving tests suggested for the Navy by Frank Sullivan, swimming instructor at Princeton, he does not even mention the crawl stroke, showing that he feels it is of very litte real value, where strength and endurance are so necessary.

WANTED: Several copies January 1918 and November 1918 Nos. Mind and Body. Address Mind and Body Pub. Co., New Ulm, Minn.

Digitized by LaOOQle
........ ■	■■■■■.............. ■	-■■o

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE 1

( I'—	- ——■ — !■■■■!	I .111 —O

By D.. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Newark, N. J. INDUSTRIAL FATIGUE.

Real efficiency, not the efficiency that comes from destroying ■one’s competitors or undermining them by intrigue, but the wholesome kind of efficiency that is signalized by a maximal continuous output of high quality, is today demanded by the world more than ever before. Many factors influence human working powers, and the scientific analysis and evolution of these factors can hardly be said to have gone beyond the initial stage. It is even now clearly seen, however, that one very important handicap to the attainment of efficiency is the production of excessive fatigue by excessive work. A paper recently prepared by the Divisional Committee on Industrial Fatigue for the use of manufacturers in the present emergency embodies a series of clear statements of the ways in which industrial fatigue interferes with maximal output and of the best known methods for reducing fatigue.*

Many administrators, writers and other sedentary workers have long since learned for themselves the lesson that the overtaxed mind, the jaded imagination, cannot be driven advantageously beyond a certain point. Mental fatigue is one of the well-recognized barriers to mental efficiency. Long hours do not connote a satisfactory productive activity of the mind; often they connote the reverse. It may, however, come as a surprise to some manufacturers to learn that when industrical output can be measured, a lessening of the hours of labor is sometimes actually accompanied by an increased production. In the instance of an English munition factory cited in the paper referred to, when the average weekly hours of men sizing fuse bodies were reduced from 58.2 to 51.2, the total output was increased 21 per cent. A certain granitecutting company found that “the same man under identically the same conditions accomplished more of the same kind of work when he was working nine hours than he did when he was working ten hours. And again when the hours were reducd to eight hours, this same man accomplished still more in an eight-hour day than he did in a nine-hour day, or a considerable amount more than he did when the day was ten hours long.”

Among the ways of reducing fatigue suggested in the report are the introduction of recess periods, the proper supervision of ventilation and other sanitary conditions within factories, the avoidance just as far as possible of overtime and Sunday work, the adjustment of speed to individual capacity, and the introduction of occasional variety into the work of those engaged in the

* How industrial fatigue may be reduced, Publ Health Rep., 1918, 33, 1347.

Digitized by kjOO^Le-;
447

often monotonous machine processes. The results achieved by the application of such methods have frequently been surprisingly satisfactory, and encourage their extension and trial on a wide scale. As a practical hint the committee is careful to point out the necessity of using objective methods of measuring and detecting fatigue. Not every man who thinks he is fatigued is really so. It does not follow that because many workers accomplish more in eight hours than in ten, they would accomplish more in two hours than in eight. The committee also touches on the psychologic factors involved, and more might well have been said on this point. The good spirit of the worker, his friendly attitude toward his employer, is a particularly important stimulus to output. The old copybook adage that willing hands make light work is as true as it ever was. The immediate and marvelous success of the reorganized Shipping Board testifies to the value of good will as a factor in industry. Fatigue is somehow lessened or its coming retarded wherever work is carried on in a spirit of eager co-operation and enthusiasm.

It may be remarked, finally, that possibly military as well as manufacturing establishments may find some suggestions of value in the consideration of the factors and significance of industrial fatigue. Apparant speeding up by long hours and excessive muscular work may in some cases lead to a delay in reaching the end desired. The admirable results already attained in our training camps by recognition of many of these factors of fatigue are well known. The new recruit is not inured to fatigue work rapidly by becoming fatigued too much or too frequently.—Editorial “The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc.”, Sept. 14, 1918.

Effect of Habit in the Choice of Food. Established habits in the choice of food are not very readily changed. When a new dietary is adopted in opposition to the dictates of appetite and pursued under protest, an unconscious reduction of intake maybe expected. Some loss of weight may follow, but equilibrium at a new level will ordinarily be established. Few of us have discerned the simple principle to which Luck has lately called attention; that we can be large people, maintained by large rations, or much smaller people with a much lighter requirement. Whether the reduction is to be desired or not depends on the original conditions. For a considerable fraction of the adult population weight reductions is calculated to add to the expectations of life.—Percy G. Stiles, Health Netcs.

Instinctive Reactions.—Under normal environmental conditions instinctive reactions are quite sufficient and effective, but given an unusual demand for action under unusual stimuli, the individual fails to meet the situation and is more or less helpless. This is because intelligent action has to be substituted for Instinctive reaction.—F. P. Norbury, Institution Quarterly.

Digitized by Google
448

Knowledge.—Every mind was made for growth, for knowledge, and in its nature is sinned against, when it is doomed to ignorance.—Charming.

Medical Aims.—The highest aim of scientific medicine today * is the eradication of preventable disease, and in the solution of * this problem all men who have the interest of the human race at } heart and can do write, regardless of medical schools or creeds. ; —Dr. George M. Kober.	]

Comparison of Draft Rejections.—The statement sometimes made that the average of health of the young men of the country is lower than it was at the time of the Civil War, as shown by the percentage of rejections in the recent selective conscription, has been disproved by the showing of Provost-Marshal-General Crowder in his report to the Secretary of War. Of the 2,510,706 men examined in the first call of the present draft, 730,756 were rejected on physical grounds, which is 29.11 per cent. In the Civil War 31.69 per cent of the men drafted were rejected. Commenting on this editorially, the Ohio Public Health Journal quotes General Crowder to the effect that in view of the advance in standards of medical diagnosis since the Civil War, the figures indicate a decided improvement in the physical condition of the young men of the nation.

EFFICIENT COMMUNITIES.

Can we find a unit of social organization—as Ford’s auto might be called a popular unit of transportation or his new Fordson tractor a unit of agricultural power?

Is not a community organizer the essential unit of social efficiency, of neighborhood life? Must we not develop in each community a leader or organizer who will enable the local people to find satisfactory activities and relationships for their leisure hours?

Has not a fundamental mistake been made by emphasizing institutions—place to go—social machinery which soon comes to be regarded as an end rather than a means? Churches, for example, beginning in self-forgetting service and as popular forward movements, become static, look backward and soon have all they can do to obtain means for their own support.

Similarly, the playground and recreation movement has had the misfortune to be regarded as largely institutional. People have conceived playgrounds and playground apparatus rather than play. The War Camp Community Service conducted by the Playground and Recreation Association of America has also shown some institutional tendencies—toward identifying itself with club houses for soldiers and sailors. The Y. M. C. A., too, is an institution rather than a movement—a great and really noble end in itself instead of a social service means which would seek to

Digitized by V.ooQle
449

“lose its life,” its institutional identity, in promoting social life more abundant.

Should not social organizers base all their efforts constantly, as scientists and manufacturers do, upon the study and organization of their material? Boys, girls, women and men are the material for social organization. To know them appreciatively and to follow out their interests and desires should be the fundamental method of community organization.

Can communities be organized by simply setting up institutions which stand still and wait for the people to come to them? Are there many social institutions—churches, schools, recreation centers, fraternal orders, philanthropies—which are now used to more than half their capacity? •

In every community does not the number of people whom the institutions do not affect exceed greatly the number to whom they do minister? Is there not everywhere a terrible loss of human

Sowers? Are there not countless thousands of people whose leisure ours are wasted, who have no vital stake in their communities, whose immense capabilities for affection and fellowship and community service are very largely unemployed?

Concretely, suppose there were a community organizer in a typical neighborhood. He would get acquanited, for example, with the idle fellows loitering on the comer, would find out what they would like to do—boxing, dancing, study, hikes, dramatics, carpentry, social parties—and help each one of them to find himself socially.

When community organizers were sent out by the War Camp Community Service to organize the leisure hours of soldiers and sailors outside their training camps, they found that most of these young men chiefly desire wholesome fellowship with good girls and women. It has been a joyous task in social organization to have countless thousands of these youths invited to dances, game parties, home dinners, auto rides, church services and socials and to other recreational activities which were good for all concerned. Society should continue after the war to apply the same spirit and method to the organization of social life for all young men and women.

In sparsely settled rural regions, in small towns and in the residential neighborhoods of cities there is need for leadership and organizing power which will enable the people to realize their own desires, to draw together in congenial groups and to make full use of existing opportunities or facilities for active social life.

Even in those communities which are poorest in social institutions there might be games, singing, dramatics, barn and house parties, picnics, hikes, contests, nature study, clubs for poultry or stock raising and for gardening or canning, and other means of social integration.

Social service institutions in more developed communities could be vitalized if the people were drawn together in groups who might use these established agencies in popular ways. This

Digitized by

Google
450

should mean not only “community centers in the sch mirable and absolutely necessary as these surely are. tations thus far have sprung from expecting people to interested than they really are in civics, political problems neighborhood improvement.

In contrast to such seriousness, community organi must be based on good times together. Leisure hours give th portunity; recreation must be the moving motive for inte and vitalizing community life.

Games in streets, alleys and vacant lots; pavement d in summer or skating in winter on inactive streets; socials of m kinds in schools, lodge halls, churches and private homes; danc5 and dancing classes; card playing for those who want it; check and chess; lounging places; books; hikes; athletics; golf; carpen and tinkering in unused basements; dramatics in forgotten tics; pageants; and just friendly gossipy visiting with various k' of folks—such are the means which a community organizer wo use to bring people together in democratic fellowship, to let th hearts and minds and muscles re-create themselves through so play.

This community unit scheme of social organization ough to be demonstrated adequately in one neighborhood. This shoul be done in war time when the great calls of the day are drawin people out of seclusion and indifference into community play. Before America dozes again or sinks back into excessiv individualism and provincialism, we should get some typical com munities so vitalized that their neighborhod life will outlast th war.

Accompanying or closely following this demonstration should come the enlisting and preparing of community organizers—paid and voluntary—who will extend the movement to other neighborhoods. Social service schools and other educational agencies could be used for part of the training. The fundamental need is to organize the suggestions and experiences now available, to enlarge the vision and enthusiasm of leaders, and to develop demonstration centers where the methods to be employed may be seen and tried concretely.

Maintenance by public funds or through voluntary associations might well be sought. Communities which sustain teachers, clergymen, and playground supervisors might be led to support a social organizer who could demonstrate his ability to add 25 to 50 per cent of productive power to the social life and individual efficiency of all the people.

But, desire for self support should not be allowed to institutionalize the community organizer or to change community organization from an adaptable movement to a stationary machine or to tempt the organizer to promote himself instead of seeking constantly to “lose his life” in the enlivened activities of volunteer leaders and of all the other people and agencies of the community.—The Survey.

Digitized by

Google
|	GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND	J

O- ■ 'I	'	' I. "I .Ml. «■ ' ' " ■■■  . o

A TYPICAL LESSON IN PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR SENIO HIGH SCHOOL BOYS.

HANS GOETZ, Milwaukee, Wis.

I.	Introductory Exercises.

a)	Running, with arm and leg exercises, half turns and counter marches.

b)	Close order drill.

II.	Free Exercises with Clubs.

a)	Breathing exercise:

Hands grasped in rear; bend trunk forward and exhale, - 1. Bend trunk backward and inhale, extend arms down, - 2.

b)	Arm circles, single and double (inward, outward and left and right).

c)	Lunge sideward left, and raise arms foreupward, -1; bend trunk sideward and lower arms sideward, - 2; return, 3-4.

d)	Marching: Square left and right.

e)	Breathing exercises: Stride sideward left, raise arms side upward - 1 and inhale , rise on toes, arms to strike - 2; return 3 and exhale 4.

f)	Arm circles, in alternation with hand circles, forward and backward. (Mill).

g)	Lunge obliquely forward left, clubs over left shoulder, - 1; bend trunk forward, strike fore-downward in direction of right foot, - 2; return, 3-4.

h)	Marching: Cross left and right.

i)	Breathing exercise: Hands grasped in rear; bend trunk backward with extending arms downward and inhaling.

j)	Arm circles sideward and hand circles behind shoulders.

k)	Lunge forward left, arms fore-upward, -1; bend trunk backward, lower arms sideward, - 2; return, 3-4.

III.	Apparatus Work.

a)	Beginners: Horizontal Bar: Knee upstarts and corrective exercises. Forward High Jump with Running Start.

b)	Advanced:

Forward High Jump with Running Start.

Horizontal Bar: Kipp and Hip Circles and Corrective Exercises.

IV.	Game: Tug of War.

Digitized by CjOOQle
452

A TYPICAL LESSON IN PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL GIRLS.

I.	Introductory Exercises.

a)

b)

c)

d)

II.

Skipping.

Schottische with raising of knees.

Schottische with raising of knees, 4 counts, in alternation with skipping, 4 counts.

Schottische with raising of knees, in alternation with skipping backward; half turn right on first and fifth counts.

Free Exercises.

a)	Breathing Exercise: Rise on toes, and raise arms side- j

upward and return, -2.	1

b)	Lunge forward left, arms sideward, - 1; straighten left i

leg, raise right leg backward, arms upward, - 2; return, I 3-4.	i

c)	Place left foot obliquely forward, raise left arm obliquely 1 fore-upward and right arm obliquely backward downward, - 1; bend trunk forward, left hand touching toes 'j of left foot, - 2; return, 3-4.

d)	Schottische from side to side.	!

e)	Breathing Exercises: Hands on shoulders, with elbows backward.

f)	Lunge sideward left, raise arms sideward, - 1; straighten '

left leg, raise right leg sideward, swing right arm down, i and then both upward and twist trunk left, - 2; return 3-4.	:

g)	Stride sideward left, arms sideward, - 1; place right foot in front of left, bend trunk right, left arm over head, right hand on hip, - 2; return, 3-4.

h)	Schottische sideward left and right, turn left about with two schottische steps.

i)	Breathing Exercise: Hands grasped in rear; bend trunk backward and extend arms down and inhale.

j)	Lunge obliquely forward left, arms fore-upward; extend left leg, raise right leg backward, lower trunk forward, lower arms sideward.

k)	Schottische with prefixed leg exercises; place left foot sideward, left arm sideward, right hand on hip, - 1; place left foot in rear of right, left hand in front, - 2; schottische sideward, - 3 - 4.

III. Apparatus Work:

1.

2.

IV

Class Work on Rings.

From stand between rings, lowering of body in the various

directions.

Exercise in hang with bent arms.

Game: Relav race around clubs.

Digitized by

Google.
453

A Gymnastic Song

By 0. C. OLSEN.

This song was sung by the Danish gymnastic team that gave an exhibition for the Iowa State Teachers Association at the Coliseum in Des Moines November 1916.

We are building for tomorrow For a strong and active life,

Not for fame or gold to borrow Not to wage a war of strife.

For our home and land we’ll labor.

We will give our life each day,

With this watchword as our saber:

Forward for America!

For our life and work we’re training Soul and body clean and strong.

Day be fair or it is raining We will greet it with a song.

Foe may come and bid us tarry,

We will meet him with: Hurrah!

For this watchword we will carry:

Forward for America!

A Field Day School Song.

Philadelphia, May 1910.

Music:	“in	the	Arena’’ March.

With heads erect and flashing eyes We march upon the field,

With hearts so true, with courage bold,

We fear not, nor shall yield, *

Our sports and games, our races, too,

Are more to us than play,

They give us health, and strength, and gnce, Lead us the honest way.

FOR SALE: Every copy of Mind and Body from 1894 to Juner 1918. First four years are bound in one volume, every copy in perfect condition (make offer).

J. E. SCHMIDLIN, P. O. Box No. 7, Union, N. J.



Digitized by LjOOQle
451

GENERAL PEDAGOGY OF PHYSICAL

By EMIL RATH, Indianapolis, Indiana.

Pupils As Aids

Many opportunities present themselves in the gymnasi the playground and the athletic field to use the pupils as ants in conducting work in physical education. These structor should welcome for the purpose of developing im educational values along social lines by practical application, the occasion to stress social training as an aspect of physical tion. Chances to place emphasis on the development of important to society frequently appear in physical edueatio must be fully taken advantage of.

Objects. Thus altho the direct object for using pup assistants is (1) to facilitate the procedure of teaching, ind' such tasks performed by pupils can be made to re-act favo upon their character development and upon the social side of nature.

An instructor should be conscious of this and purposely trol and direct as far as possible these influences. Thus, wh pupil assists the instructor he performs a service for him, a commendable act which should be extended to classmates others by appropriate encouragement. It is therefore impo that this (2) “spirit of service” be consciously developed. I a valuable quality, important in community life and in the lationship of man to man and has an ennobling and sacri influence on character. This “I serve” spirit should the be emphasized when the opportunity presents itself, and grad grow from a willful obedience to the requests of the instructor, a spontaneous readiness to assist whenever an occasion sug it so that it may become a habit,

In the same manner it is possible to (3) develop the spirit of co-operation. Many activities performed in the gymnasium require the co-operation of several pupils. For instance, in the getting, setting up and returning of apparatus; in the leading of squads; in some exercises themselves, co-operation with classmates and the instructor is necessary. The pupil furthermore, may assist in the prevention of accidents for it frequently happens that he may stop a classmate from falling during some risky activity. This also is a most desirable community qualification for many civic results depend upon it. It may mean a sacrifice of time, effort and sometimes money, but all of these find their ultimate compensation and individual satisfaction in the resulting accomplishments which are for the welfare of the whole community. The instructor must look upon his class as being such a small community and impress upon his pupils the need of their co-operation to establish and maintain order and achieve results.

Advantages. Furthermore, some advantages accrue from this procedure.

(1). The instructor can save his energy considerably by assigning tasks which he himself might perform, to a number of

Digitized by

Google
455

pupils. This is necessary, particularly since physical directors are required in some schools to teach as many as six and seven periods a day and devote the rest of the day’s time to the coaching of teams, a condition which we trust will soon be remedied. If an instructor so overburdened does not conserve his energy wisely, his health will eventually become impaired. In fact every instructor should realize the necessity of judiciously saving himself by having his pupils assist him whenever this is possible.

(2). Furthermore, such assistance prevents breaks in instruction and permits the lesson to proceed uninterruptedly, thus saving time which can be used for work. Also, the discipline of the class suffers if the instructor, for instance, is obliged to get every piece of apparatus necessary for his work, to mark off places for games, and otherwise perform tasks which could be done by members of the class in less time, and who would thus be occupied. This maintains the pupils’ interest and if a break is necessary, it is usually of short duration.

The different ways of using the pupils may be classified under four heads:

(1). To lead (squads, teams) and record. It is frequently necessary and sometimes advisable to resort to squad work, particularly in apparatus, track and field activities. In apparatus work this may be due to two causes, (a) A lack of apparatus, the equipment, for instance, consisting of only one or two pieces of the different kinds of apparatus, thus making group work impossible, (b) Classes composed of pupils of various ages and of different abilities as we find in some high schools where freshmen are compelled to work with seniors. Under such conditions class work is possible but as progress can but slowly be made on account of the composition of the class, interest can be better maintained if squad work occasionally is employed. In athletics squad work must logically follow class instruction (if such is given) in order to attain the best results. When resorting to this it will be found necessary and advisable to divide your classes, based upon age and ability, into squads consisting of from seven to ten pupils.

For such purposes squad leaders are necessary and pupils who act as such should be selected from the upper classes, or as the case may be, from the most capable pupils, and organized into a leaders’ corps. This leaders’ corps should receive special instruction, the periods and time being determined by their ability and the time available, in work they will be asked to teach their respective squads. A system of lesson cards or small pocket-sized books on apparatus work* * and athletics** can be well used as a basis for such instruction. Besides being taught the various apparatus exercises, and the technique of athletic events, these leaders should be given some elementary instruction in commanding, so that they will be able to move groups of pupils about readily.

*	See "Graded Apparatus Work. Lower Grade.” By Emil Rath, published by the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union.

*	* See Spaulding’s Athletic Library.

Digitized by UjOOQle
456

Furthermore, captains of the various teams con class or intra-school leagues, and even of the varsity] be made responsible for prompt and accurate recor" team’s achievements and standing.

Where classes and schools use the color-contest athletics the captain of each color acts as advisor (and le as pointed out above) and as recorder marking each puj reaches his standard and averaging his team’s achiever the purpose of comparison. (See Physical Education Me These leaders should encourage their team and squad me and urge them on to better work.

If there is no contest taking place you will still find ptj striving to attain the standards of efficiency tests. Pupils maj used to record these results checking off the name of each as he accomplishes a certain stunt. Such details relieve physical director and class room teacher (where there is no resM teacher) of work and at the same time develop leadership anc sponsibility in the pupils.

It is evident from the above that every gymnasium, playgrotj and class room must have a bulletin board in a conspicuous upon which a record of teams and individuals may be kept their standing in relation to other individuals, teams, class gymnasiums or playgrounds is indicated.

(2). To aid in class and apparatus work. Pupils be frequently used to criticise one another during class or instruction. This method can be applied to all formal work! marching (tactics); free, wand and club exercises; dancing; ap| ratus work. It may also be used in athletics and games, purely formal work it is usually applied in difficult exercises, and] the following way. While the class is in open order the odd observe the even files in the performance of an exercise. The servers make corrections by suggestions and by manual pr which is often the quickest way. Both the one correcting and one performing profit by this procedure. On the apparatus next one to perform usually makes the correction. Aiding a pv to overcome a difficulty in a stunt frequently gives him the musci feel necessary to accomplish it. If no positions are maintained an exercise the observer can of course only offer suggestions. This occurs in dancing and athletics.

Assistance in apparatus work is given principally to pre .ent injury caused by falling. Aid is not necessary in the lower grades where all apparatus work is extremely simple, nor is it possible in these grades to have the pupils aid in the correction of each other as was described above. The instructor assists, should this be necessary, and also makes all corrections, for the pupils themselves are too untrained, possessing only vague and incorrect conceptions of physical education activities.

When appointing pupils to assist in apparatus exercises that may lead to falls, only the strong and reliable should be selected. Although it is advisable not to choose the same ones all the time,

Digitized by

^OOgl( ..	-■*'
457

•weak and unreliable pupils should never be asked for this kind of work. In some exercises it is necessary to have two stand as assistants. When using pupils for this purpose they must be carefully instructed as to (a) just where to stand in order that they do not by their position interfere with the performance of the stunt, and perhaps cause the pupil to fall, rather than save him; and, furthermore, (b) be told just how and what part of the body and when to grasp. Catching hold of the performer's arm or wrist too soon may cause rather than prevent a fall. It is therefore important that capable and experienced pupils be selected. In assistance thus given the spirit of service to and co-operation with the classmates again stands out distinctly.

(3)	. To demonstrate. It is desirable if possible that all demonstrating be done by the instructor (see Demonstration) but it may happen that the instructor is not as capable as some of his advanced pupils. This is particularly true in advanced work on apparatus and in some athletic events. In such cases it is wise to select a proficient member of the class to do the demonstrating. Furthermore, it is recommendable to occasionally select a pupil from the class to demonstrate, even tho the instructor can do it himself, for this awakens in the pupil an incentive for good work. If this procedure is judiciously used, always selecting other pupils, it will have a beneficial influence upon the work of the class for it will arouse a spirit of friendly rivalry and emulation.

(4) . To get, set up and return apparatus. In order that apparatus may be placed in position for use with despatch and little loss of time for class or squad work, it is necessary to assign certain duties to different members of the class. In class work, the first step is to divide the group into as many divisions as there are apparatus to be used (see Alignment) and then assign to as many pupils of each division as are necessary the getting and setting up of apparatus. During squad work the same procedure is used, excepting that the members of each squad under the direction of the squad leader are assigned these duties. Thus one usually assigns the getting of the apparatus to two or four members and the getting of the mats and other things needed to the other members of the section. In connection with this it is necessary for the instructor to teach the pupils how to grasp, carry or roll and adjust the different apparatus. It is well to devote part of the period at the beginning of the semester to this instruction, so that every member of the class will be proficient in this. Furthermore, the pupils must be familiar with the disposition of the apparatus, so that no time be lost restating where the different pieces are to be placed or returned to after use. It is necessary, therefore, for the instructor to have a permanent diagram made out for the semester, showing where the different pieces of apparatus are stationed when in use and when not in use. This should be always adhered to. Weak and awkward pupils must not be expected to handle heavy pieces of apparatus. The strong and skillful ones should do this. The instructor should observe that every member

Digitized by CjOOQle
458

of the section is active in connection with this. After the apparatus , has been placed in position for work the instructor tests it as to * its safety, positively assuring himself before proceeding. At the end of the work on the apparatus it is returned in the same manner in which it was fetched.

This procedure will tend to awaken in the pupil a spirit of service, co-operation and obedience, and will aid in the development of skill, qualities which the instructor keeps constantly in mind while assigning the tasks with a view to organizing them into habits.

In recent years apparatus work has been sifted down to specific exercises upon a few predominating pieces. The expense of equipping gymnasiums is, no doubt, partly the cause of this, but it has also been found recommendable from the physical educator's viewpoint to reduce the many varied forms of activities possible on apparatus to certain essentially fundamental ones. It is well to be aware of this tendency.

The pupils may also assist the instructor in games by getting the play apparatus and returning it, and by marking off the floor, or field for the game. The instructor usually names the first four or more of a class to do this and tells each one just what to do. In games which the pupils have learned not much explaining is necessary. Marking off play space should be done with as little loss of time as possible. In some games as end ball, comer ball, captain ball, etc. it is best to keep the class off the court until it is marked and time for the game to begin. In such open order games as pass ball relay the pupils at the head of the file (or rank) are given a piece of chalk (or marking instrument) and quickly place a mark where each pupil in his file or rank stands. It is perhaps needless to state that every physical director must always have a piece of chalk and a whistle in his pocket.

MISTAKEN PSYCHOLOGY IN CHILDREN’S GAMES.

By ELIZABETH O’NEILL, Supervisor of Playgrounds, Philadelphia, Pa.

In the article in the January issue of Mind and Body on “Mistaken Psychology in Children’s Games” (Page 387), Miss Elmore has found much that is experienced by all teachers of children whether in the gymnasium or on the playground.

Much depends, however, upon our conception of the “object” of the various games, the “age” order in which they are presented, and their value in the mental, physical or moral development of the child.

Many games have been improved by changing the rules and many of the old traditional song games have had to be revised and purged of objectionable word material to make them suitable for modem educational ends, for instance, “Oats, Peas, Beans”, familiar to all American children. Newell tells us that it is still
459

a favorite in France, Spain, Italy, Sicily, Germany and Sweden. The game was played by Froissart (bom 1337)* and Rabelais (bom 1483), but was originally a dance of young people of “Romance” descent and no doubt had a religious and symbolic meaning. While the words during five centuries have undergone little change, few teachers will be found who will teach the last verse or who will permit the kiss.

“Waiting for a partner,

Waiting for a partner,

Open the ring and take her in,

And kiss her when you get her in.

Now you’re married, you must obey,

You must be true to all you say.

You must be kind, you must be good,

And make your husband chop the wood.”

"Jolly Is The Miller” in its original form would need explanations which would not enhance the benefits to be derived from the game played for the mental and physical enjoyment alone. The Miller, whose pay used to be taken in a proportion of com ground, was a common object of popular satire. “Round and Round, the Mill Goes Round” is mentioned as an English dance at the end of the seventeenth century. A song of “The Happy Miller” is printed in “Pills to Purge Melancholy” (1707), of which the first verse

“How happy is the mortal that lives by his mill!

That depends on his own, not on Fortune’s wheel;

By the sleight of his hand, and the strength of his back,

How merrily his mill goes, clack, clack, clack!

The results obtained by games depend much upon the aim of our work and upon the method of presenting games suitable to the development of the boys and girls concerned. For young children the supreme aim is in the joy and the activity of the game. When the child gets so far as to recognize his skill we give him games that will measure his mental and physical skill. If the big point (in the running games suggested by Miss Elmore) is made upon getting away from his pursuer, he will bend every effort to make the goal whether it is an opening in the circle or a point designated in the playground or gymnasium. The most characteristic feature in a little child’s running play in the earliest stage of his development is, that he is the real' embodiment of the thing he represents, - let us say a squirrel, - he will expend his utmost energy to get away from his pursuer, and the applause of his success is his greatest reward. If reaching the goal is made the most important feature of the game the winner soon recognizes the fact that the “proud” distinction belongs to the swift of foot, and the loser is given another turn only because he failed to measure up; otherwise, the game loses its entire significance. The “reward” is not in the fact that the child remains in the circle while the other continues to “perform”, but winning the goal is the re-“

Digitized by Google
460

ward” that should bring the proper recognition from the in the “well done" or the encouragement of applause by the • dren for each feat accomplished.

Many games are not a success because they are not understood by the children or because they are prolonged beyond the child’s interest in the game, showing frequently that he is for a more difficult form of the same game or a more difficult gam|| Games should be varied so as to give the individual what he need* for his physical, mental, social and moral development.

Speaking of the tendency of children to “desire” to be idea#*! fied with their fellows rather than to play in another “den”, the» are always children who want to be with Johnny or Mary, pecially if Johnny’s social sense is stirring for companionship.' His sense of responsibility in the game will come later; perhaps Johnny is not ready for that particular game yet. Such except^ tional cases should not change the rules of the game.

In the simpler ball games mentioned by the writer, as mutfc^ emphasis should be placed upon the ability of the one to dodged the ball as upon the one who throws the ball. This would presuppose that skill had been gained in throwing at or into an. immovable object, so that the throwers would recognize that » new element had been introduced (wariness, alertness, etc.), requiring much skill upon the part of the players outside and in the circle. The writer in speaking of the singing game “Jolly is the Miller” says that nine times out of ten, children prefer to be the Miller. If the game is taught properly the circle is just ' as much an important part of the game as the Miller, the place of the Miller being the most conspicuous place to show a lack of'.] skill and efficiency if he is the Miller many times in succession. I

In the game, “Third, Slap and Run”, the question is whether the point of the game is to be a skilful “runner” or a skilful “slapper”. J The same holds good, it seems to me, in most of the games in the list. “Spin the Platter” is a game of skill requiring mental and motor agility. Certainly we should give the slow, inactive child an opportunity by giving him two or more turns, but it is better still to give him a better chance, for instance: make it much harder , for the more skilful by giving them an additional activity to perform to add to the difficulty, like clapping the hands three times, hopping three times, etc. before catching the platter.	j

Games with rules putting the loser out of the game should be modified to suit the conditions under which the teacher is working. We follow the development of the child, not his caprice.

If children like to run, like to throw, like to chase, they must learn how to abide by rules and laws of the games that have been laid down for their physical, mental and moral growth. But these laws and rules need not be like the rules of the Medes and Persians, but should be changed to meet the needs and conditions of growth, but we must be pretty sure that the change will meet the laws of growth for the normal or for the sub-normal child.

Google - '
O'

■O

j	NOTES AND COMMENTS

O "	■■■"—"»	'"■■■'	Mim.m,	'I	n..n	i .--O

Our 25th anniversary. With this issue Mind and Body closes the twenty-fifth year of its existence. The first number, containing 16 pages, was issued in March 1894. Mr. Hans Ballin of Milwaukee was its first managing editor, with Karl Kroh of the Cook County Chicago Normal School and W. A. Stecher of St. Louis as the editorial committee. Mr. Ballin resigned in June 1896 and was succeeded as editor by Dr. F. Pfister of Milwaukee. Dr. Pfister resigned in December 1906 and was succeeded by the present editor. The following well-known teachers have helped shape the editorial policy of our little magazine and have in many ways helped to elevate the standard of Mind and Body: Dr. E. H. Arnold, Christian Eberhard, Herman Dreisel, Dr. W. A. Ocker, Dr. Robert Nohr, Carl Schrader, William E. Day, Dr. D. M. F. Krogh and Emil Rath. The last four gentlemen are still active as editorial committee.

During the first two years each issue contained only 16 pages, but because physical training then was in the midst of the “fight of systems” the journal sure had an encouraging number of subscribers. Beginning with its third year the number of pages per issue gradually was increased. From its eighteenth year the number of pages per year always has been approximately five hundred. While the contributors during the first years, naturally, were the teachers known as the “Turner group,” the more liberal and broader policy pursued in later years brought contributions from men and women in all fields of physical training. The same might be said so far as the subscribers are concerned. Mind and Body now has subscribers in all parts of the Globe (and many were the requests to send it to our subscribers at the front.)

In closing this little sketch of the oldest regular physical training journal in America it would be unthankful not to call attention to the fact that for many years the Freidenker Publishing Company of Milwaukee published this journal at no small financial sacrifice to itself, because of the belief held by its directors that a journal like Mind and Body was absolutely necessary if physical training was to become something broad and extensive, something that should function in the recreational life of the nation.

In May 1916 “Mind and Body” was transferred to New Ulm, Minn. The present publishers and also the editors are actuated by the same ideals that were before the former publishers. A technical journal of this type seldom meets expenses. The number of advertisers naturally cannot be large, and so practically the whole income of the journal is from subscribers. While in many ways this is a handicap, and means that all connected with the journal must not look for a financial re-compense, it has, on the other hand, the advantage of keeping the editors and publishers alive, as a decrease in quality always shows itself in a decrease in

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
462

the list of subscribers. Mind and Body may therefore be looked upon as a co-operative venture. So long as teachers want a journal of its character it will be published. And judging by the gradual increase of subscribers during the last years there is substantial hope that we shall continue to live for many years to come.

As teachers are beginning to see that physical training work can be used for other purposes than the acquirement of strength, agility, etc. perhaps we will find that singing while marching in the gymnasium or on the playground or on a hike will again come into favor. We recall that in our youth every gymnastic lesson began with a song. What better means to instill love of country, genuine freedom, etc. have we than some of our national and popular songs. We take pleasure in printing the accompanying two songs, and we hope that those of our readers who are using similar measures in order to gain valuable by-products through their gymnastic work will send us such material for publication.

The next annual session of the National Education Association will be held in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, June 29—July 5.

The following resolution was adopted by the convention of the American Federation of Labor, St. Paul, Minn.

“RESOLVED, That the President and Executive Council of the American Federation of Labor be instructed by this convention to take measures to secure the creation of a Federal Department of Education headed by a cabinet officer.

“RESOLVED, That the President and Executive Council of the American Federation of Labor be instructed by this convention to initiate and support Federal legislation appropriating one hundred million dollars to be apportioned by a Federal Department of Education if one is created, or that failing, by a Federal Board upon which organized labor and education shall be represented, such fund to apply only to the payment of salaries of public school teachers in a state (including teachers of physical education and of English to adults under public school supervision) after such state shall have satisfied the Federal Department or special board that adequate standards are to be maintained and shall have appropriated an equal amount.”

BOOK REVIEW.

*lo

U

t

%

••st,

at!

4g

UJ>

4) »9

all

tty

Hi

1)

>

“Recreation for Teachers” by Henry T. Curtis, Ph. D. 288

pages, 5 by 7 1-2 inches, illustrated. Published by the MacMillan Company New York. Price $1.60.

Dr. Curtis dedicates his book to the teachers of America, for health, growth, and the joy of life. In sixteen chapters the various phases of recreation are taken up, discussed and a conclusion drawn how the work would affect teachers. It can safely be said that if all teachers were to read this book and act according to only a

Digitized by

Google
463

few of its many valuable suggestions the whole school atmosphere would change at once. What the author wants is to get the mass of teachers to apply the school and personal hygiene they are teaching, to live it, to try out upon themselves what they teach.

“Creative Impulse in Industry” by Helen Marot. 146 pages 5 by 7 1-2 inches. Published by E. G. Dutton and Company, New York City. Price $1.50.

In this stimulating book Miss Marot shows that satisfaction with the results of one’s work must be at the bottom of all efficiency. What she terms the creative impulse is that condition of the mind that urges workers to greater effort. It is this impulse in the worker that must be recognized and must be developed. To us it appears that all that the author has pointed out as essential to increased industrial efficiency can be applied to all phases of school work. Why, for instance, should not a physical training teacher use this ever present impulse to perform natural forms of exercise, to try different stunts, in order to increase the efficiency of physical training work? Why can’t this satisfaction of a child’s in its ability to create some form of exercise be made the lever to accomplish still greater results? As Dr. Dewey has said of this book: “It is a forceful presentation of a point of view with respect to education which is as novel as it is illuminating”.

4‘The Kingdom of the Child” by Alice Minnie Hests Heniger. 173 pages, 5 by 8 inches, illustrated. Published by E. P. Dutton and Company, New York City.

About fifteen years ago Mrs. Heniger originated The Children's Theatre in an attempt to develop the vital imaginative power which slumbers in the breast of the child. The remarkable results of her experiment proved that the inborn dramatic instinct had a far wider field of possibilities than had been suspected. Not only in play and story-telling but in many branches of instruction, such as reading, history, and literature, it can be used as an integral part of the lesson with astonishing results. In this book she explains fully her methods of utilizing this dramatic instinct in children, and of securing that concentration and attention on the part of her pupils which is the teacher’s greatest asset. She also draws clearly the vital distinction between the instinct of imitation and that of the creation of a part in which the child assimilates the values of the character assumed if the work of characterization is to be of truly educative worth.

“The Human Machine and Industrial Efficiency” by Frederic T. Lee, Ph. D. 119 pages 5 by 7 1-2 inches, illustrated. Published by Longmans, Green and Co., New York City. Price $1.10.

In his preface the author says “Many of the facts here presented relate to war industries, but they are none the less pertinent as illustrating the principles enunciated; and. . . the principles, it is hoped, will survive and receive attention long after the war has ended. I believe fully that any activity in which the human body plays so large a part as it does in industry must be organized on a physiological basis before the highest degree of efficeincy

Digitized by CaOOQle
464

can be secured. In the field of human activity here discussed a science of industrial physiology must come into being, a science of the human machine in industry, and this must be developed largely within industrial establishments themselves. They constitute the laboratories in which much of the observation and experiment of the future must be made.”

“Education of Defectives in the Public Schools” bv Meta L. Anderson. 104 pages, 4 3-4 by 7 1-4 inches. Published by the World Book Company. Yonkers-on-Hudson, New York.

Miss Anderson is supervisor of the classes for defectives in the public schools of Newark, N. J. In her book she treats of the true defective child, not of the child that is normal, but simply backward mentally. Statistics show that about two per cent of the school population is feeble-minded, that is, defective (not backward) mentally. Now while it is true that the mentally backward child really is the only one that can be helped much by special education there nevertheless is that two per cent of defectives that must be taken care of in the public schools. How this best can be done is told by Miss Anderson. Physical training teachers, naturally, will be interested in the physical training work undertaken by these defectives. But the viewpoint that crops out so far as all other kinds of schoolwork are concerned will also be of great help to all physical training teachers.

Physical Training Teachers and Supervisors

W e Can Place You In Better Positions

The Rock; Mountain Teachers Agency

326 Empire Building Denver, Colo.

WM. RUFFER, A. M., Manager

PACIFIC OFFICE:

1312 Northwestern Bank Bldg. Portland, Oregon

FRANK K. WELLES, Mgr.