MIND AND BODY

Vol. 35	NOVEMBER, 1928	No.	372

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO.. NEW ULM. MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 8, 1879.

i >—	■■■.	■	■	■	■■	»

Qriginal articles and reprint§

■ ■ — - ■*

REPORT OF MEETING OF AMERICAN CHILD HEALTH AND AMERICAN PUBLIC HEALTH ASSOCIATIONS.

As a result of a complete program of preschool health work organized in Fargo, N. D., in 1923, sixty-three per cent of the children who entered school last year had been reached by the Health Department, according to Dr. B. K. Kilboume, Fargo's City Health Officer, who spoke before a joint session of the American Child Health Association and the American Public Health Association.

“Many of those children first seen in 1923 were infants at that time and were reached through the routine service to that group and have been carried continuously since,” Dr. Kilboume said.

“The goals of preschool health service may be summed up as follows: Every preschool child should have a physical examination regularly every six months or as often as his doctor advises. We emphasize the family physician here as he should increasingly assume this responsibility. The child should be immunized against diphtheria and vaccinated against smallpox if this was not done in infancy. He, with his family, should be instructed in the essential health habits, so that he sleeps and rests regularly, eats

Digitized by

Google
198

heartily, and welcomes the wholesome outdoor play and companionship of other children. He should have early and prompt attention during illness. His environment should be controlled to prevent harmful influences affecting his development. He should have regular dental examination.

“In an attempt to accomplish these goals, the private physician and the private dentist informally, and the health department and school board must formally cooperate. Such a plan in operation supplementing private practice makes available every essential health service to preschool children, and an educational program designed to stimulate parents to avail themselves of these opportunities. We believe that with the proper use of the facilities available in most small cities much can be done to approximate this goal.’’

* * *

The old slogan “A Clean Tooth Never Decays” has done great harm in preventive dentistry, said Dr. William R. Davis, Director of the Bureau of Mouth Hygiene, Michigan Department of Health.

“This expression is true only for surgical cleanliness,” Dr. Davis declared, “and surgical cleanliness is impossible so far as we know in the mouth of a live person and not very important in a dead one.

“Many teeth that are brushed decay and many teeth that never saw a toothbrush never decay. No dentist on earth can make badly broken down and aching teeth as good as new. Why broadcast such teaching? Educational material that is not true or is out of focus should not be used no matter how attractive.

“We have led many school boards and teachers to believe that toothbrush drills and cleaning teeth are the whole thing in a dental health program. Use of the toothbrush is a good habit like taking a bath or washing the face. In certain cases it will help prevent decay. Twice a day, before going to bed and after breakfast is a reasonable frequency to teach. Why teach five times, which is unreasonable? Why teach using gauze on the finger and boric or salt solution daily to wash the mouth of an infant which is correctly fed and in good health, when clinical experience shows that it does more harm than good?

“The two greatest factors in mouth hygiene are diet and early dental attention. It has been proven quite conclusively that wrong diet promotes decay and correct diet retards decay. If we could have early attention to small defects and correct diet, I believe we could almost wipe tooth troubles off the map even if another toothbrush was never manufactured. This may be rank heresy, but I believe research and clinical evidence are proving it.”

* * *

“There are two historical figures in America who through service to society have gained the confidence of the people whom they serve almost to the extent that their word is final,” Miss
199

Ann Dickie Boyd, supervisor of Nurses, Public Schools, Denver, Colorado, declared.

“These figures are the family physician and the school teacher. If these two characters are to continue into the society of the future they must admit a third person, the public health nurse, into their fraternity.

"Figures from our own work in Denver indicate a distressingly low percentage of defects corrected during the school year of 1927-1928. Of the 14,443 pupils examined probably two-thirds had been examined previously by the school physician. Of these 14,443, 3,008 were found to have nutrition defects, indicated by weight abnormality, and only 34 had corrected their weight defect since the last examination; 3,937 of these pupils had diseased and enlarged tonsils and only 520 pupils had had their tonsils removed since the last examination. Of 2,424 pupils with poor posture only 55 had corrected posture since the last examination. Figures for other defects are of about the same proportion. One must agree that something is very wrong.

"Our ratio of nurses to pupils is too low and the nurses are required to do too much clerical work. I do not believe, either, that the nurse ought to have to spend any of her time securing the right attitude toward the school health program on the part of the superintendents, principals and teachers. Educators strive to develop proper habits and attitudes in their pupils and are, therefore, expected to have proper attitudes themselves. For the very reason they have assumed the responsibility of educating youth, they should stand without reservation in favor of a school health program.

“Unfortunately not all of them do and as a result the muse must spend varying amounts of her time educating educators to have the right health attitude, leaving much less time for her real job.”

* * *

Declaring that the teaching of health habits to children must be freed from “a sort of standardization which applies to dead, but not to living, things,” Dr. James Frederick Rogers, Chief of the Division of School Hygiene and Physical Education of the

U.	S. Bureau of Education, reviewed the school health work of the country.

“Prosecution of our attack by known means on ill health and defectiveness would be facilitated if the relationship between physical condition and mental activity could be made more evident,” Dr. Rogers said. “This relationship is apparently not evident except at the extremes of defectiveness.

“A child with the worst vision in the school, with what is usually called poor posture and far underweight, victim of nervous disturbances, subject to bronchitis every winter, and later developing tuberculosis following an accident which damaged his digestive organs for life, nevertheless always stood at the top of his class and is, after middle-age at the head of his profession.

Digitized by

Google
200

“The' machinery for fine mental work was there and, though housed in a ramshackle tenement, functioned apparently unhampered by either general or special defectiveness. There was, however, little surplus energy above that required for his daily work, and had he attempted a profession in which normal vision or average physical energy was essential, he would have found himself on a flat tire and have fallen short of his mental possibilities and his ambitions. Yet by no known tests would he have been found wanting at any period of his career as to intelligence or educational achievement.

“Twenty-four out of fifty-four health-habit authorities in a recent survey advise the school child, regardless of age, size, activity, season, indoor or outdoor climate, clothing or any other condition, to drink ‘a quart or more’ of water daily. Apparently these hygienists were not aware that water taken in excess acts as a poison, or they would have been more explicit as regards the ‘more’. We are too explicit with regard to some health practices and too vague with regard to others.

“In classroom procedures we have unfortunately been guilty of classifying and labeling the child in ways which were unfair and discouraging, and we have even set up for the guidance of

Knts a model to be sought which is both impossible and (listening. Such a child (even if correctly pictured) cannot possibly be produced to order, much less modified to fit such requirements after his birth. We are sometimes too dreadfully scientific and not sufficiently human. We are not dealing with a paragon, and it is our business to make the., most of the child as we have him.

“Liberation of the child as far as possible from the trammels which interfere with the full exercise of all his faculties for the enjoyment and work of life thus affording him the freedom of doing what he desires to do, and of getting where he wishes to go, within the limits imposed by that powerful tyrant, heredity, is the aim of those who battle for better child health.”

* * *

That work for preschool children should begin with or before the birth of the child and be continued until all parents are sufficiently intelligent to recognize deviations from a desirable standard of health and are in a position to get the help they need for their children as soon as that need is present was the contention of Miss Mabelle S. Welsh, Associate Director of the East Harlem Nursing and Health Service, New York City.

Miss Welsh described the five-year program of the East Harlem Nursing and Health Service which has touched 4,464 children between the ages of two and six years and 3,225 infants.

“No other organized service existed in the district although certain children were reached in connection with health and social services rendered by family welfare agencies and the municipal health department,” Miss Welsh said. “The people of the district are mainly of Italian origin or descent and the majority are

Digitized by

Google
201

in the lower income group of unskilled laborers. Very little health supervision is given by the private physicians of the neighborhood since the people themselves are slow to call in medical aid except for acute illness. The preschool demonstration service recognized that the starting point in the health care of the child must be the education of the parents in the home. The home service was not rendered as a follow-up service from a medical clinic but as a fundamental educational service which used the medical conference service as a tool in the health care of the individual child.

“The most common physical defects noted by the medical examiners were poor posture, decayed teeth, malnutrition, and diseased tonsils. In these four groups fall ninety-four per cent of all defects noted, exclusive of those that are temporary in character and others that are uncorrectible.

“Pneumonia presented the most outstanding sickness problem, with the highest percentage of all cases, 24.6 per cent, and the highest percentage of all deaths among nursed cases, 52 per cent. Measles ranked second in frequency with 20 percent of all cases. Communicable disease looms up as a problem in the second half of the first year of life when deaths from this cause were doubled.”

* * *

How to combat the “can’t afford” attitude in regard to children’s teeth and other health corrections among families who have such luxuries as automobiles, radios and victrolas, was discussed by Miss Georgie B. Collins, Assistant Editor of Health Films of the Eastman Teaching Films.

“Health work should be counted among the necessities in every family,” Miss Collins declared. "Teachers in the public schools can do more to forward this attitude than any other agent. The mass of teachers in service have not acquired in their training a knowledge of child hygiene but the nurse, physician or health education worker should supply teachers with facts concerning common physical defects, their effect upon growth and health and the advantages which are obtained through correction.

“In Malden, Massachusetts, a manufacturing city of something over fifty thousand with an elementary school population of about six thousand, very few children in the public schools would have dentistry done except for the stimulation brought to them by activities in school. At the end of one year’s survey which brought out conditions and showed how they could be remedied, nineteen hundred more children than the previous year had clean teeth. Three hundred and sixty more children had dentistry completed.

“The Board of Health runs a dental clinic with one dentist working four mornings a week. He does cleaning, filling of tem-porary teeth and extraction. There is no other clinic work. Thus

Digitized by
202

these increases were attained by every day educational work and shows what can be done even with small clinical aid.”

* * *

The Health Department’s supervision of the preschool child in New York State was described here today by Dr. Elizabeth M. Gardiner, Director of the Division of Maternity, Infancy and Child Hygiene of the Department.

“The department conducts child health consultations and examines children from six months to six years of age,” Dr. Gardiner said. “A migratory unit of staff physicians and nurses work in the more rural areas and smaller municipalities, according to a schedule arranged by an advance agent in cooperation with local health officials.

“The results of these examinations are recorded and the findings referred to the family physicians for confirmation and correction, the local nurses working with the state unit and then with the family physicians in the interest of the children examined, retaining these children as a definite part of their regular work until all possible has been done to accomplish the desired results.

“Staff members are placed as demonstration child hygiene nurses in counties or rural areas, developing a full maternity, infancy and preschool program and conducting the demonstration in such a manner as to convince the public of the need of the work and the possibility of their acquiring their own permanent service as an outcome of the demonstrations.

“The department affords to many local municipalities, of sufficient population to justify holding clinics once a month, financial assistance in the form of annual allotments for the payment of local physicians working with local departments of health for the examination of infants and preschool children.

“Specialized staff assistance is given to local independent nursing organizations, in the formation and carrying on of mother and child health stations, with the activities indicated, so that besides routine home visiting, there might be developed opportunities for group instruction, nurses’ conferences, and other centralized efforts.

“Financial assistance is granted to local counties, for the payment of groups of physicians, appointed by and working under the auspices of the county medical societies in conjunction with local health officers, for the purpose of examinig preschool children twice yearly in the sparsely populated areas, where it would be out of the question to hold clinics as often as once or twice a month.”

* * *

It isn’t the height, it’s the hips that count. At least the width of the body is more important in determining what a boy or girl should weigh than the length, according to Dr. Raymond Franzen, Research Director of the American Child Health Association’s School Health Study.

Digitized by

Google
203

It has been customary, Dr. Franzen pointed out, for a good many years for boys and girls to step on the scales, watch the pointer go round to a stop, and then knowing how tall they are, look up in a table of figures to see whether they are above or below in the game of weight. Most children survived the ordeal with smiling faces but one or two out of every five would find themselves way below the tables and fit candidates for the undernourished class.

Dr. Franzen’s researches will brighten the hopes of many who have received this jolt from the height-weight tables. He views the body as a cylinder which has diameter as well as height. Two cylinders of the same material and the same height may have very different weights depending on their diameter. Similarly, body frameworks vary not only in height but in width and thickness. The wide framework can carry, and is meant to carry, more weight of flesh and fat and organs than a narrow framework even though the height is the same. For this reason Dr. Franzen points out the width and depth must be known as well as the height before you can say a person's weight is deficient. Dr. Franzen has devised methods for taking into account the various bony measurements in predicting weight.

The height-weight tables have been a valuable aid to health workers in the past and from the experience gained in their use and from new data it will be possible to construct new tables shortly which will be still better and more accurate.

Dr. Franzen’s findings are based on measurements of 8000 children of the fifth and sixth grades, from schools of seventy cities scattered over the country. Points as far removed as New Orleans, Spokane, St. Paul and Providence have all contributed to the figures which serve as the beginning of the new tables. Schools in these cities were studied by physicians and educators of the American Child Health Association in the effort to find out how to make health programs more effective in the lives of school children. Body measurements and weight were but a part of the total ground covered in the study.

The calculations in this study have been carried down to such a fine point that the relative importance of each body dimension in determining weight has been computed. For instance, among 11 year old boys, the width of hips is 30 per cent of the total influence determining weight. The depth of chest exercises 25 per cent influence, breadth of chest 20 per cent, height 20 per cent, and width of shoulders 5 per cent. The proportions for girls are somewhat different, the chest dimensions being of still greater importance and height less.

Another point brought out is that the girth of upper arm and calf fluctuates in proportion to weight. For children of similar body framework the size of the calf is a good index to the weight. Measurements of girth and measurements of weight token in conjunction with the body framework may have great importance in revealing susceptibility to disease, fatigue and future growth.

Digitized by t^ooQle
204

Dr. Franzen cautioned his hearers, however, not to confuse weight with nutrition. Underweight or departure of weight from that of his “anthropometric peer”, is a measure of the degree to which a boy differs from the usual run of boys. The significance of this departure in terms of health, however, is quite another matter which this paper did not attempt to cover. The significance of underweight in terms of probable future ill health is a subject that requires continued study over an extended period.

Nutrition was described as an ambiguous term. It would be better to use exact body measurements and the thickness of the padding immediately under the skin than to use general measures of nutrition.

One interesting fact reported was that a child could be heavy without being fat and that a child could be fat without being heavy. In other words, the padding under the skin does not go hand in hand with total body weight. It is the size of the skeleton that is most important in determining weight. Dr. Franzen believes that further study of the thickness of the padding under the skin might be very valuable in helping to interpret how well children are assimilating their food.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND MENTAL ACCOMPLISHMENT.

By Harms Sippel

A Translation of the Essential Parts of Each Chapter, by William A.

Stecher.

Physical Education and Mental Accomplishment by

Hanns Sippel. 162 pages, 6 by 8 inches; 36 graphs and 11 tables. Published Tt»y Weidmann, Berlin, Germany. Second, revised edition 1927.

In the foreword the author states that the present volume is the result of his previous essays that appeared under the title of “Physical Education and the Mental Work of School Children”. The present work, however, has not been confined to persons of school age. There also has been added a very comprehensive, twelve page, bibliography of publications dealing with mental fatigue, physiological experiments, hygiene of the nervous system, psychology, etc. that should be of great value to students. The author (who wrote “Body, Mind, Soul,” the foundation for a psychology of physical education) in the concluding sentence of the foreword says, "that the result of his study will be dead material, if it is not made to bloom by living application.”

Chapter I. Bodily development and mental ability.

There is no use to deny that in the minds of most educated persons there still is a deeply rooted conviction to the effect that who has muscles has no brain. It may be that at the preent day, this belief is not expressed quite so baldly, but many, neverthe-

Digitized by UaOOQle
205

less, are convinced of the correctness of this opinion. It is, therefore, with divided feelings that such individuals view the struggle for the inclusion of physical education as an integral part of education. The thought continually creeps into their minds “We also have accomplished something and did not have physical training”. A sound body always looks suspicious to intellectuality.

It can not be our object to search for the origin of this feeling; it must, however, be our aim to gather such reliable facts as shall help to determine truth.

The school is a fertile and promising field for such investigations. It is here that one can most readily get an answer to questions like; Who does better mental work, those who bodily are weak or the strong children? What is the bodily development of the bright children; of the dull?

Two tables are introduced in this chapter that show the height and the weight of boys and of girls 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 years of age who attend four different types of schools; namely the orthogenic backward, the common school, the middle school and the gymnasium. (Note: This latter type of school corresponds approximately to our higher type of boarding school, or to a school for children who are mentally bright.)

The figures in the tables show that pupils in orthogenic schools, in their physical development are nearly two years behind those in the upper schools. While an upper school boy of 11 years weighs 32 kilograms, a boy in the lowest school does not reach this weight until nearly two years later; and while the height of the boys in the upper schools increases 11 centimeters, the lower school boy increases in height only 9 centimeters during these two years.

These results may be interpreted to mean that lower mental capacity is based on weak body development.

The question naturally arises if this fact also holds true when applied to those of normal mental ability. Is it correct to state; “weak body development means poor mental ability” or conversely: "robust physical development means good mental ability”?

In order to get an answer to these questions many planned investigations were undertaken in the above mentioned and in other schools.

Researches by Grazianow and also by Sack in Moskow in 1893 revealed the following: pupils of every age were taller than those of a similar age who were in a lower class, or who were not promoted, or who because of inferior mental ability were not accepted in the schools.

Height by itself is, however, no test for sound development. Porter, in St. Louis secured data on height, weight and chest circumference of over 35,000 boys and girls in elementary and high schools. His results show that pupils in a higher class or grade were heavier, taller and had a greater chest measurement than pupils of the same age who were in a lower class or grade. The mentally bright pupils had a better physical development.

Digitized by
206

In 1902 F. A. Schmidt and L. Lessenich reached the same conclusion through an examination of pupils in the elementary schools of Bonn. A table of weights and heights that is introduced in this chapter shows unmistakably that good bodily development was associated with better mental ability. These results were corroborated in Germany by the following investigations: Graupner, Dresden, 50,000 pupils in 1902; Oebbecke, Breslau, 1911, 1912 in 613 classes of girls; Quirsfeld, in Bohemia,

8,000	pupils; Schierack, Leipzig who demonstrated that aenemic pupils were mentally below the normal; P. Struve, 1913, whose researches show that superior mental endowment was based on bodily development.

The instances cited may be taken as showing conclusively that a well developed child will have a good mentality; that a well developed body may be taken as a guarantee that mental ability is present. Only prejudice looks for superior mental ability in the pale model pupil, and expects the red cheeked robust boy to be a dunce.

Chapter II. Bodily development and physical education.

The instances cited in the first chapter indicate that a child that is physically well developed, is bkter developed mentally, as a rule, than the physically weak child. This would be final if heredity were the only factor involved, uninfluenced by environment. But full development of potential physical and mental growth is not unalterably determined at conception.

Extended investigations have shown that hereditary potentialities can be modified. Development is dependent upon many things. The hunger blockade during the war has made weaklings of thousands of German children whose parents were strong and healthy. H. Poll by means of a comparison, a simile, shows clearly the effect of environment. He says: “Water consists of two atoms of hydrogen and one of oxygen. It depends upon something (temperature) that has nothing to do with its chemical composition, if this H?0 will become steam, water or ice. The differences come about through outside influences to which this matter is subjected or comes in contact.”

The forms in which water may become visible are based on its elements H^O. Water can never become iron or quicksilver; a negro can never developJnto a white. Temperatime and pressure will determine the form in which water becomes visible. In like manner the development of the negro or white into a ppson who is strong, tall, narrow chested, small, weak, etc., is conditioned upon stimuli called forth by the conditions under which each lives.

Good nutrition is one of the first conditions influencing growth, then come sufficient sleep and good housing.

Digitized by LjOOQle
207

Researches by F. A. Schmidt, Bonn, 1920 show the following:

Pupils in

Body build	Higher	Elementary School

Schools	in	poor section of city

Good	55.3%	24.0%

Medium	41.1%	67.5%

Poor	3.6%	8.5%

This table shows that children of the fairly well-to-do families having better food, care and homes are better developed physically than those of the poorer families. But these conditions are not the only ones that influence growth. Roux and his pupils demonstrated that nutrition alone was not sufficient for the development of an organ, that function, also was to be considered: function creates its organ.

Godin, Paris 1901, 1913 showed that physical education was of great importance in favorably influencing bodily growth. During three and a half years he measured the same one hundred students eight times. Fifty of these students (of a military school) took part in apparatus work and in French gymnastics, and fifty did not. Otherwise all of the one hundred students lived alike, bang inmates of a boarding school. The results of this experiment were as shown in the following table:

at the age When 18 years of age of 14^3 Non-Gymnasts Gymnasts

Height (cm)	142	160	163

Weight (kg)	40	55	62

Chest circumference (cm) _________________ 80	88

Those taking the physical training work gained on the nongymnasts in height, weight and chest circumference. When figures were first published showing the trend of the experiment, Manouvrier said that this result might have been caused simply by the fact that the gymnasts had a better constitution, a constitution that could not be harmed by the exercises indulged in. Godin thereupon undertook a second experiment for which he selected 14 of the weak non-gymnasts, who during the first years of the main experiment had shown a similar development and who likewise had much similarity in body build, character and temperament. Godin persuaded 7 of these to join in the physical training work while the other 7 remained non-gymnasts. The results were as follows:

Height(cm) Weight(kg) Chest Circ.(cm) age	age	age

14.5-16 16-18 14.5-16 16-18 14.5-16 16-18 7 weaklings	+6	+15	+1	+17 +1	+14

(gymnasts)

7 weaklings	+7	+13	+4	+6+1	+3

(non gymnasts)

50 gymnasts	+10	+11	+6	+16	+7	+8

36 non-gymnasts	+6	+12	+4	+11	+3	+4
208

The results, as can be seen, were similar to those exhibited in the former table. The great increase in chest circumference is very noticeable when the figures of the gymnasts are compared with the non-gymnasts. In fact, the impression may be gained that the body was merely waiting for an incentive to develop its innate capacity, and physical training furnished this incentive.

Still, two objections might be made to these deductions. First, seven persons are too few to be used for such generalization; second, there is no proof that the other 7 pupils would have been benefitted had they also taken part in the physical training work.

Matthias, in 1916 made an experiment with 757 youths from 16 to 21 years of age, taking over 70,000 measurements. He also divided his students into two groups: gymnasts and non-gymnasts. The averages for all ages at the beginning of the experiment were as follows:

Circumference Height Weight Chest Thigh Leg Biceps

(cm) (kg) (cm) (cm) (cm) (cm) Gymnasts	168..3	63..1	88..9	48..2	34..7	27..0

Non-gymnasts______167..0	58..4	81..1	45..9	33..2	25..3

After a year's physical work for all of the group the results were as follows:

Gymnasts	+1..8	+2..7	+2..7	+1..7	+	0..5	+	0..8

(The former) Nongymnasts	+ 1..5	+2..7	+3..0	+1..7	+1..8	+1..2

It can, therefore, safely be assumed that physical training is a potent means for the development of inherent physical capacities, and that it has special value during the years of growth.

Chapter III. Physical Training and Mental Accomplishment

The preceding chapters showed that a physically well developed child is also mentally well developed. It also was shown that bodily development is influenced favorably by physical training. Put into a mathematical formula these results would appear as follows:

Good gymnast	=■ good physical development

Good physical development = good mental accomplishment

Therefore: Good gymnast = good mental accomplishment

Can this be proved, or is the frequently found assumption correct that a good gymnast is a poor student?

Schuessler, in order to study this question, examined the final reports of 5,000 graduates from a folks and middle school. He found that 10 per cent of these graduates were excellent gymnasts with a rating of 1; 40 per cent were good gymnasts with a rating of 2; 45 per cent were medium with a rating of 3, and 5 per cent were poor gymnasts with a rating of 4.

A comparison of the physical and mental accomplishments showed that the best gymnasts also stood highest in tne mental

Digitized by

Google
209

work. The greatest percentage of the best gymnasts achieved the goal of the school: to become a member of the highest class. The less able gymnasts seldom reached the highest class, while those who were classed as “poor” often failed or left school as soon as this was permissable.

The following table will show how the different groups ranged; also what percentage was eliminated before graduation.

Gymnastic

ability

Excellent

Good

Fair

Poor

Graduated or Promoted I.	II.	III.	IV.

(8th year) (7th year) (6th year) (5th year)

77.. 5%	17..0% 5..5%	......

70.. Q%	23..0% 7„0%	......

69-5%	25-5%	4-5%	0-5%

62.. 0%	18-5% 17„5%	2..0%

This table shows that over three fourths of the excellent gymnasts reached the highest class; that 17.0% were retarded one year and 5.5% two years, (none three years). Those less able gymnastically also were less able mentally.

A further study was made relative to the standing of the best gymnasts in each separate mental subject. This showed that the good gymnast, as a rule, performed good work in all subjects. The good gymnast that fails in the other school subjects may be looked upon as an exception; an exception, that because of its contrast, often remains as a vivid impression in the minds of some teachers.

(To be concluded)

FOREST SCHOOLS AS AN ADJUNCT TO SCHOOL HEALTH*

By Dr. F. S. Burke, Director of Medical Services, Department of Public

Health, Toronto.

In order that we may better understand this subject and the results which one hopes to accomplish through the medium of forest schools, it may be well to outline their historical development. The first municipal forest school of which we have any record, was established at Charlottenburg, Germany, in the year 1904. The first in the British Empire was at Bostall, near Woolwich, England, in 1907, and on this continent at Providence in 1908. Dr. W. E. Struthers, chief medical officer of the Board of Education from 1911 to 1914 inclusive, was greatly interested in this work and initiated the movement in Toronto. In 1913, he wrote: “We have voted $200,000 for sanatoria, a noble and laudable work, but for one life saved to a more or less precarious existence of limited efficiency, one hundred or five hundred bright

•Reprint from "The Public Health Journal,” Toronto, Canada.

Digitized by VjOOQle
210

young lives could be saved to a full vigor and full efficiency.'' Thus even at that time he was advocating placing the preventive side in a stronger position than the curative. Dr. Struthers visited the schools at Charlottenburg and Bostall, and on his return was successful in getting the Victoria Recreation Park site. The Board of Education was persuaded to start a school there in 1912. Mr. Eckhardt gave the use of his beautiful grounds; the Board of Education put $1000 in the estimates for that year; the Toronto Daily Star gave $700 to supply food; the Toronto Street Railway gave free transportation morning and night. Fifty children were accommodated, and thus the forest school movement had its birth in Toronto.

The plant consisted of an open wooden dance pavilion that was used for dining and shelter in case of inclement weather. The benefit to certain selected children was so definitely established by sojourn at this school that the scheme was not only continued but expanded. Thus in 1914, the High Park Forest School was opened. The control of the health field passed to the Department of Public Health, together with the entire school medical service, in the year 1917. From that time on we have more definite data and have been able to make a closer observation of the individual child.

Let us now survey the forest school situation as it stands today. There are in operation two schools. Victoria Park, in the extreme south-easterly section, is situated high up on a sandy cliff overlooking Lake Ontario. The site gradually rises through a wooded grove. The grounds comprise about sixteen acres and the school cares for 220 children. There are six open air classrooms in which are taught all the public school grades, from 1st to 4th book. High Park Forest School is similarly organized and is situated in High Park, in the western section of Toronto. This school accommodates about 260 children and has nine classes. The staff in each school consists of a principal and teachers, kitchen help and caretakers for grounds and tents. The medical supervision is supplied by the Department of Health and consists of a nurse who spends every morning at the school, and the medical officer of the district in which the school is situated, who visits about twice weekly.

The Economic Side.

Let us now examine a little more minutely certain phases of this work; its economic side, for example. It costs approximately sixteen cents per day to supply the following:

HIGH PARK FOREST SCHOOL.

Salaries (being the salaries of the nurse in charge and a proportion of the salary of the district superintendent as well as that of the district clerk)........$

Trolley Fares (children’s fares)....................

Cartage.............................................

Laundry ............................................

273..	15

333..	00 8..00

259..	96
211

Miscellaneous Other Services............................... 47„45

Coal, etc........-....................................... 178..58

Food .................................................. 3,221..35

Cleaning Supplies......................................... 33..32

Sheeting, etc............................................. 48..40

Drug Supplies .............................................. tL38

Printed Stationery ....................................... 18..23

Ice....................................................... 81..54

Kitchen and Dining Supplies.............................. 129..67

Miscellaneous Paper Goods and Sundries..................... 66„96

Insurance ................................................. 2..40

Furnishings—Pillowforms and blankets..................... 296..50

$5,007„89

The Board of Education maintains the salary of teachers, kitchen help and caretakers. The cost of equipment is nearly nil as old seats and blackboards are utilized that would otherwise be discarded.

It would appear, therefore, that at a per capita cost of sixteen cents per day the service is cheap and economical because we have proved time and again that one or more summers at the school provides a child with sufficient resistance to turn the scale from a chronic institutional case at a maintenance cost of $1.50 per day to a fairly healthy school child. How do we know this? We know it by comparison with other children of the same family who have not had the privilege of attending these schools and children whose parents refused to send them. We therefore believe that the scheme is sound not only from a consideration of its economical, but also from its public health aspect.

THE ACADEMIC ASPECT. Upon enrolling at the school the child is given a number which applies to everything he uses— locker, blanket, cot, washplace, tooth brush and soap box. School work is carried out in conjunction with a well regulated program which blends hygiene and academic work skilfully together as the following outline shows:

8.45-	9.00—Teachers’ preparation

9.00-	9.05—Opening exercises

9.05- 9.30—Academic work

9.30- 9.50—Morning milk

9.50- 10.00—Making of beds

10.00-	11.00—Academic work

11.00-	11.30—Sun bath

11.30- 11.40—Free period

11.40- 12.00—Wash drill

12.00-	12.45—Dinner

12.45-	1.00—Tooth brush drill

1.00-	3.00—Sleeping

3.00-	3.10—Putting blankets away

Digitized by
212

3.10- 3.45—Folk dancing, games, swimming, manual training

3.45-	4.00—Afternoon milk

4.00-	4.30—Academic work The fact seems well established that with the type of children selected for these schools, the mental activity increases in proportion to the gain in general health. Mr. Tamblyn, a former principal, and others, have made a special study of this matter and are convinced of its truth.

SELECTION OF PUPILS. As the school medical officer works steadily along with his routine physical examinations he makes a list of certain children that might benefit by attendance at a forest school. In April he again sees these children and, if their physical condition still warrants, they are chosen as suitable candidates. Following the selection of the children, the parents are visited and presented with a card which they are asked to sign. An agreement is entered into, in which the parents guarantee to co-operate with the principal and the School Medical Services to send the children to school regularly. Regularity of attendance is an essential requisite. If no guaranty is forthcoming in this regard the application is refused.

Tuberculous Contacts. The types selected are, first, tuberculosis contacts—those in whom we have definite record of exposure to an open case of tuberculosis, but upon examination by either family physician or hospital clinic show no active signs. We find these children by following up the open cases reported by either physician or hospital. We also attempt to find the pre-tubercu-lous child. Those who are persistently more than 10% underweight, pale, nervous and subject to frequent illnesses. If a family history is obtainable there will probably be elicited evidence of an exposure at some previous time. These two types differ in that the tuberculosis contact may appear to be a big strong healthy child and found only as a result of follow-up work, while the latter draws attention to himself by his poor physical condition.

Asthma, Chorea, Malnutrition. Bronchitis and asthma are two other chest conditions that we select. Choreas of the milder form not under active treatment, and various convalescents, such as those recovering from operations or pneumonia, are admitted. In regard to malnutrition, since this is not in itself a primary disease, we try to solve the underlying problem while the child is at forest school. Some of the causative or contributing factors are: lack of parental control, ignorance of child psychology, unfit or broken homes, abuse or neglect of children.

Results. The results differ according to the condition, and since all cases are now carefully selected, our end results are achieved with almost mathematical precision. Let us, however, consider a few examples:

Tuberculosis Contacts. When these children are taken away from the source of infection for the entire day. every day except Sunday, kept under the most hygienic conditions possible, fresh

Digitized by LjOOQle
213

air, sunshine and rest, it will probably be the turning of the ways, not towards the sanatorium but towards a normal existence.

Pre-tuherculous children. One or more summers builds these children up in general health and increases their resistance to the point where they appear to be safe. On examining some of these for a third term we have been faced with the problem of whether or not they should be refused an extra term because of their evident robust health.

Choreic children do well if they are able to stand the street car travel back and forth. All chest conditions do well, including asthmatics.

Malnourished children. These are the cases that show the most spectacular gains in weight because very often we are not dealing with a diseased child but rather a diseased environment.

EXAMPLES OF TYPICAL CASES.

Dorothy—aged 12 years, was 10 lbs. underweight on admission, sallow, stooped and listless. She gained 15% lbs. with decided improvement in posture and color and became active and interested.

Evelyn—was tall, round-shouldered, pale and listless, uninterested in either work or play. Father and mother tubercular. Child had positive I. C. at Hospital for Sick Children, but no active condition found. She gained 10% lbs. and showed a decided improvement in general health.

Edna and Jack—these children had very large diseased tonsils—it was not possible to procure operative treatment prior to admission but it was hoped that during the term home co-operation might be secured. The parents, however, did not respond to either teacher or nurse, and as a result Jack gained 1% lbs. and Edna % lbs. in the whole six months they attended. This illustrates a point we have been striving for years to drive home, i.e., that no children should be admitted with uncorrected defects. However, we always have a few admitted on compassionate grounds with the hope of stimulating action by the parents through school influence.

Arthur W.—is a boy of nine. Twice last winter this child suffered from broncho-pneumonia. He came to school in May, nervous, underweight, anaemic and too listless to show the slightest interest in the activities of the school. Often during the early summer he spent an hour on his cot before lunch, in addition to the afternoon rest period. Gradually he began to improve, and in September the teacher laughingly remarked: “Do you know that Arthur actually talks in school now!” By November 1st this boy had gained nine pounds in weight and improved so much in every way one could scarcely recognize him as the same youngster.

Alex.—age 11 years, had been in poor condition since 1923. He was underweight, anaemic and also had chorea and an associated heart condition which necessitated this lad remaining in

Digitized by v^ooQie
C°*H

So



CN«C.

Ce*t*itx j Jf°x'ItiAi &n. lbs	**e	f°r<

r9at Sch

3»

'“ear Sc^!tAS« -

'"“-■-li,	,

so	" V£aqc ^4,

"SSSSj... - p.

Ooi

wfltw *\	»»'<■**

«4



Tf*C Vt M»«T

44

$9

*4* * *MVJl

tie

/oo

13 YFADS-kg 7	“"»■*'*

KO Nonmal lNcee*sc - 4 3 Ik, •**"*’ —«* w ,,,,„ _ Fobcst School lucerne — 3 l Its ENTIRE	-«.,/

"2	76	FomstSchooiIhcanst -49/L

109	74

fi^ru (X**’



jg	JkUC	*'

90

StPT & OCT

Digitizecl W

Google
215

INDIVIDUAL WEIGHT-RECORD CARDS

Graph illustrating record of a child without clinical defects, good parental co-operation.

Graph illustrating record of weights of a pupil with positive intracutoneous tuberculin test; father tubercular; poor parent co-operation; recommended open air school for winter and second period at

forest school.

Digitized by Ljooole
216

hospital from April until July, when he was discharged from Lakeside and recommended by the hospital physician for Forest School. Blessed with an enviable disposition this boy set about to enjoy the school. He did all in his power to regain his health, and when the forest school closed Alex was weighing 17 lbs. more than when he entered.

Emily F.—is a child of ten. She attended forest school last year, but made little progress. During the winter term she was in school 71 days and absent 81. In May, accompanied by her little brother, she returned to forest school veiy reluctantly. The nurse came to know Emily, almost immediately, for at nine o’clock every morning this child would come complaining of a headache or a pain in her foot and begging to go home. We took a special interest in this child for a time, and presently a change began to take place. Emily left her little brother to find playmates for himself while she looked about for new interests. When school closed this little girl was completely changed. She laughed and played with other girls, and was proud indeed to tell you she had gained 12 lbs. and had been absent from school only six days. The little brother learned to enjoy himself with other boys and gained seven pounds.

Children are selected well in advance of school opening in order that when possible any remedial defects may be referred to the family physician or hospital for correction. The dental work should be completed and psychiatrist’s report obtained when indicated. Our experience in the past has proven that an unhealthy mouth condition will nullify our efforts to make the child gain. Forest school is not for sick children since no medical treatment is given, but it is a place where we endeavor to improve the physical condition and thus increase the natural resistance to disease. We are endeavouring to reach a certain type that the family physician and hospital cannot deal with further. They do not require medical treatment, they are not convalescents, they do not need to be institutionalized, but they do require supervision of their daily habits.

Children and parents are often incompatable. This leads to incessant quarrelling and irritation, and if in such cases a child can be taken out of the family circle into a quiet well-regulated atmosphere for the greater part of each day, very creditable advances can be made in health habits. They can be taught to take all types of food that are supposed to be correct for growing children and against which the child rebels. Many a child has had to be convinced that peas, beans, carrots and turnips can be utilized as food stuffs with perfect safety. Children are great imitators. When a few non-milk drinkers stand in the ranks with 200 others that do, they soon shed their dislike, particularly when a full mug means stand fast in your place, a mug dutifully emptied means dismiss for recreation.

There are certain questions that naturally arise in connection with these schools. Do the children have any holidays? No, we find they do better when no holidays are taken, even two or
217

three weeks in the country. The probability is that insufficient rest is taken together with an improper diet. As an example, Children's Day at the Exhibition is always followed by a drop in weight.

Do parents co-operate? In the majority of cases they do. It may require effort on the nurses’ and teachers’ part and a home visit to attempt to improve faulty home conditions, as well as interest the mother in the Home and School Club. This organization, which is powerful and its meetings well attended, often inspires mothers to take a more intelligent interest in their children. It is a means of bringing the parents into closer contact with the child’s school life, and makes her feel that she is a definite cog in the community wheel.

Can the family physician utilize forest school for certain patients? He most certainly can, and some have already referred cases to the district medical officer. We are glad to give such children special consideration providing, of course, that it does not bar a more needy child from entering. It is not always possible to accommodate a child that is proposed subsequent to the opening of the school. The pupils are selected prior to the opening, the first week in May, and this group remains fairly constant throughout the summer. We believe that for the time being we have arrived at our maximum requirements in the way of accommodation. Some difficulty is also experienced with young children who are unable to go long distances by street car. In some cases we arrange that an older child or neighbor’s child looks after the little ones. Some have to be refused for safety’s sake.

OPEN AIR SCHOOL. It may be permissible at this juncture to show the correlation of the open air classes which differ in certain major points from the forest school. The open air classes, of which there are five in Toronto, are situated in standard school buildings and differ only from a standard class room in the type of combined desk seat, which is movable and the special arrangements of windows. The children suitable for open air schools are very similar to those selected for forest school, except that they may attend for one or more complete school years, while forest school only operates for six months, from May to October inclusive. Therefore, when children are brought forward the district medical officer must decide which type of school is most suitable.

In the open air school the children stay all day. They get a morning nourishment, a hot mid-day meal and an afternoon nourishment. They are also provided with a heavy warm coat with a hood and blankets. These are kept disinfected and washed by the Department. The children carry out a very similar routine to forest school, including a two-hour sleep after lunch. In good weather they sleep outside on a flat roof that is preotected by a high parapet. On rainy days some sleep under a veranda and some in the classrooms.

Open air and forest school children do not alternate as one might expect, for those in charge soon realized that the transfer-

Digitized by CjOOQle
218

ing of forest school to open air or open air to forest school would be too confusing, and would be the cause of a great many empty seats at either or both schools during the overlapping months of May and June-September and October. A few of the most needy are accommodated to fill any vacancies.

RECORDING OF WEIGHT. The result upon the child of attendance at forest school is, of course, not altogether measurable in that psychological benefit, the learning of health habits cannot be readily recorded. However, the weight record is a means of guaging one tangible result. Individual weight record cards are used by the Department of Public Health, Toronto. Each child fills in his own card with the aid and supervision of the teacher. Thus the child is stimulated to take an active and personal interest in his progress. The figures on page 214 illustrate the graphs constructed from the composite weight data of various age groups and of the entire forest school. One may note at a glance that there is an actual loss in weight during the months of June and July. This striking fact is still unexplained. Bearing on this matter I shall quote from an article prepared with great patience by Dr. Haven Emerson, Professor of Public Health Administration, Columbia University, New York City, read before the American Medical Association at Washington in May of last year and published in the Journal of the American Medical Association, October 15th, 1927. He gathered his data from Honolulu, Toronto, and New York. This wide geographic selection was, of course, done for the puipose of comparing growth under different climatic and race conditions. The weighing, measuring and charting of diet was carried out for a full year, the weighing being monthly at approximately the same time of day. The diet was carefully noted in Toronto to find out whether extra fruit and vegetables in the summer and autumn stimulated growth more than the winter diets, or vice versa.

“It may be taken for granted that a drop in weight, or an arrest in weight for as much as two months, in a child of school age indicates that there are some unfavorable conditions which interfere with the addition in weight which normally accompanies increase in length of body.”

CONCLUSIONS. Variations in the rate of gain in weight of children from 5 to 10 years of age are commonly observed, the rate of gain being commonly greater during the months when school vacations and favorable climatic conditions permit the nearest approach to good hygienic conditions for children, and when the incidence of acute infections affecting children is at its lowest.

“There does not appear to be any evidence to justify considering these seasonable variations of gains in weight as a normal biological phenomenon for healthy children under favorable conditions of environment.

“Among the possible determining factors of the variations in the rate of gain in weight of children of school age in Hono-

Digitized by LjOOQle
219

lulu, Toronto and New York City, the incidence of infections, particularly those acquired through the respiratory tract, is believed to be of much importance.

“Seasonal or periodic variation in weight accretion of children is probably an accidental phenomenon, not necessary or euthenic in character, but an expression of unfavorable conditions affecting the child.

“A child who fails to gain in weight each month, at least up to the age of 10 years, is in all probability suffering from some form of infection or fatigue in which diet, housing and school attendance may play important contributing parts.

“Groups of children living under favorable conditions can be found who, in the absence of infections or other sicknesses, exhibit a regular monthly gain in weight regardless of the season of the year.”

In view of the foregoing conclusions, it is of interest to note that 7 out of 8 of the age groups at one of our forest schools exhibited either a stationary weight or an actual loss of weight over the months of June and July. Commencing with the first weekly weighing in August, these 7 groups started a rapid gain in weight, and this continued until school closed at the end of October, at which time each group had averaged considerably more than the gain in weight of a normal child of the same age over a period of 6 months.

We are not prepared at this juncture to offer an explanation for this decided retardation of weight growth over the months of June and July, following a normal gain in May, but a special study embracing the entire 500 children will be carried out during the coming school session.

SUMMARY.

The inclusion of a forest school program in the health activities of any municipality is worthy of consideration for many excellent reasons.

It is a sure and economical way to restore certain children to a more normal condition of physical well-being and better standing in their school work.

Forest schools are decidedly a public health endeavor, because the object is prevention of disease. The work is based on one of the fundamentals of preventive medicine in that it builds up the physical body thus increasing the natural resistance.

Forest schools are not for the indigent only, but can be utilized to aid bad habit correction in the neurasthenic child from the sheltered home.

To estimate the amount of forest school accommodation necessary in an average city, we have found it to be about 1 per

1,000	of population, in other words, in Toronto, with a population of approximately 500,000 we can keep up to strength forest schools accommodating 500 children. There is always a certain amount of wastage to be provided for, and this is done by having a substantial waiting list at central office.
220

Any piece of park land well drained and free from factory smoke and dust adjacent to transportation is suitable. Too much shade is undesirable.

No permanent buildings are required, a tent being suitable for dining, cooking and shelter.

Sixteen cents per child per day will supply food, medical and nursing supervision, car fare, etc.

The public soon learns to observe the rules and refrain from trespassing within the boundaries of a school even though situated in a large city park.

The time to select suitable cases for forest school is during the winter months as it is then that observation can be made of those frequently absent with colds and other chest conditions. The winter is the time to locate and examine that particular group which loses so much time from school with chronic bronchitis. Those unfortunate children so diagnosed are particularly worthy of consideration.

THE DISPOSAL OF DOMESTIC SEWAGE

By H. G. Baity, Sc.D., Associate Professor of Sanitary and Municipal Engineering, University of North Carolina.

A domestic plumbing system has been compared to the capillaries of the blood circulation system of the human body. In this analogy the water supply mains and distribution piping correspond to the arteries of the circulatory system, both of which cany thei rlife-sustaining and body-building fluids. The pumping station of the waterworks forces water to all parts of the municipality just as the heart drives the blood to every part of the human body. In the multitudinous small passageways of the capillary system the blood contributes elements to rebuild, repair and sustain bone, muscle and tissue, and carries away the waste products of the metabolism of the human mechanism; in the plumbing system water is supplied to serve the many uses of modem civilization, to sustain life and promote health and happiness, and to carry away the various domestic wastes produced in our daily life. The modem sewer system is the counterpart of the veins of the animal organism, which receives the polluted waste-laden water fron numberless sources and conveys it through house connections, laterals, submains, mains and outfall sewers, just as the veins collect and convey the blood which has accumulated the contaminating wastes and poisons of the human body. Then analogy may be extended even further,—and this is the point of making the comparison as an introduction to this paper: The lungs and other organs of the human structure, which receive Alter, purify and again render suitable for use in the body’s system the blood which was laden with waste materials, correspond in almost every detail with the processes of waste treatment, natural and artificial, which are employed to render safe and suit- *

*From Health Bulletin of the State of North Carolina.

Digitized by LjOOQle
221

able for re-use as domestic water supply the grossly polluted sewage which is through our systems of sewers.

Water and Sewage in the Economy of Nature

The last phrase in this last analogy may appear to be extreme, exaggerated and far-fetched. It may be said that the analogy itself breaks down because every one knows that it is not customary practice to utilize our outfall sewers as sources of water supply and to purify the sewage to a degree that it may be safely used over and over again. No, that is not done, because it will never be necessary or economical to resort to that expedient, and sentimental reasons would forbid it. Water containing a much lesser degree of pollution and contamination is still available and plentiful for such uses. But the idea is not absurd or impossible of execution. It is entirely possible by methods known to the scienist to render sewage suitable for drinking purposes, but it would be enormously expensive. Sewage is not treated to that extent, because in practice it is not found neces-saiy to do so. The point to be remembered is that sewage be treated to any desired degree of purity, and that this degree is determined by the particular needs of the case in question. Nature is busily engaged every day in her quiet and unassuming way, in bringing about through her subtle processes the purification of staggering volumes of foul and contaminated sewage and wastes, giving to us bright sparkling water which you see in the raindrops or in the mountain streams. Part of the water which we drink today probably one time carried filthy organic waste materials and teeming millions of contaminating bacteria. The amount of moisture on the earth is a fixed quantity, never increasing, never diminishing, conserved in quantity and quality by the forces of nature, and made fit for use over and over again through her beneficent agencies—physical, chemical and biological. These natural forces we utilize in all forms of sewage treatment. We emulate Nature’s examples, endeavoring always to duplicate, supplement, improve and accelerate, within man-made structures, the processes which we observe around us, but never being able to supplant them.

Sewage Purification vs. Sewage Treatment

In general, sewage treatment is not applied with the objective of purifying the sewage, in the strict sense of the word, nor does the sewage ordinarily need to be purified. More will be said later regarding the desirable extent of treatment, what the determining factors are in arriving at the efficiencies and limitations of treatment plants, and how different standards for sewage effluents may be met by the utilization of different types and combinations of treatment devices. But it should be noted here that, due to improper use of terms, a popular misconception has developed regarding the efficiencies attainable with the usual sewage treatment processes. These miscellaneous devices all go popularly under the name "sewage purification plants." In a certain sense this is true, for such plants do contribute to the re-

Digitized by

Google
222

moval of the objectionable constituents and living organisms of the sewage. The sanitarian, knowing the results to be expected from the various processes of treatment, considers the word “purification'’ with its modified meaning and is not deceived, but the layman is misled by taking the term at its face value. Individuals and municipal officials proudly boast that the sewage from their homes or cities is rendered harmless and innocuous because it is passed through a septic tank! That septic tank may be doing its duty as well as any septic tank could, but the sense of smell or sight, or the application of a little common sense, ought to indicate the impossibility of any such conclusion. The expression “sewage purification’' should be discarded, because it is misleading and extravagant. In practice sewage is not purified. In its place the term “sewage treatment” should be employed in technical and common parlance to express the process of rendering sewage less objectionable from the aesthetic and hygienic points of view.

The Nature of Sewage

Sewage is only the spent water supply—water which has been rather roughly handled in passing through plumbing fixtures, but the physical character of which has not been so greatly changed after all. It still contains more than 99.9 per cent of water. Less than 0.1 per cent of the sewage is composed of solids, suspended and dissolved, which the water has taken up in being used. Part of these solid materials, about one-sixth, are rather large and coarse in nature and may be readily settled out; part of them, about one-quarter, are in a colloidal state and remain suspended in the liquid indefinitely: while yet another part, more than one-half, are dissolved in the water. Each of these three physical forms of sewage solids,—settling, colloida., and dissolved, is composed in part of mineral or inorganic materials which are stable and do not tend further to decompose. About 50 per cent of the solid matter of average sewage is of this character which does not offend or trouble us. It is the other fifty per cent which gives us grave concern, the organic solids in the three physical states which are unstable in character, and which are decomposed through bacterial agency to produce conditions which are offensive to the senses. The major function and perplexing problem of sewage treatment is the satisfactory handling of this organic class to solids, known as pollution, which constitutes about 0.05 per cent of the sewage weight, a trifling one pound per ton of raw sewage.

In the transformation of water into sewage the greatest change in character is found in the bacterial content. Water supplied to consumers from our modern purification works is practically sterile, and never contains a disease-producing organism, or a bacillus which had its origin in the intestinal tract of the human. Average fresh sewage contains from 2,000,000 to 4,000,000 bacteria in each cubic centimeter (15 drops). This phenomenal increase in bacterial population in tne spent water is due largely to the enormous numbers of organisms contained in
223

the excreta of human beings. Investigators have found that a normal adult man discharges in his feces an average of 33,000,-000,000,000 (33 million million) bacteria per day, in addition to other millions contributed by his skin and urine. These are parasitic organisms which find their most favorable conditions for growth and multiplication in the digestive tract. These organisms, known as colon bacilli, are normal to the human and other warm blooded animals, and are always found in such numbers in their discharges.

The Mode of Transmission of Intestinal Diseases

Colon bacilli, being the natural inhabitants of all people, are, in themselves harmless, and so long as a person harbors no disease no disease can possibly be contracted by others from the natural and harmless bacteria which he gives off in his bodily functions. So most of the organisms contained in sewage are not of the pathogenic or disease producing kind. On the contrary, they are of genuine importance and value in the economy of nature through the scavenger work which they accomplish. But, if a person discharging sewage happens to be infected with the organisms of any of the intestinal diseases, such as typhoid fever, dysentery, or cholera, then these organisms will be discharged in quite as great abundance as the normal colon bacilli and will readily infect people who accidentally or ignorantly take these organisms into the mouth and digestive system. Each of these diseases is the result of a specific organism, and no one of these intestinal maladies can he contracted in any way except by taking through the mouth organisms from the intestinal discharge of a person afflicted with disease. Transmission of the infecting organisms from person to person usually takes place by one of three methods: the three F’s of epidermiology—fingers, flies, and food. Disposal of human excreta prevents the operation of either of these dangerous agencies. These facts make clear and significant the problem of disease control which is entailed in sewage treatment, and accentuates the responsibility of those charged with the disposal of domestic wastes.

Sanitation Among the Ancients

Among savage tribes and the peoples of antiquity there was an appreciation of a direct relationship between human excreta and disease. Why, they did not know, but they attributed the relationship to filth in the vicinity of human habitations. It was not until the time of Pasteur and the proof of the germ theory of disease that it was known that infectious diseases were due to the presence and growth in the body of specific infecting organisms. In some respects it is well that the idea that disease springs spontaneously from filth has persisted, for such conceptions have promoted a clean environment; in other respects it is unfortunate that so many of our people have not known the real causes and factors of disease transmission, for they sacrifice life on the altar of ignorance in failing to safeguard themselves and society against the terrible ravages of preventable maladies.

Digitized by UooQle
224

In the 23rd chapter of Deuteronomy we find this law of Moses which was given to the Israelites about the year 1491 B. C.

“Thou shalt have a place also without the camp whither thou shalt go forth abroad:

“And thou shalt have a paddle upon thy weapon; and it shall be, when thou wilt ease thyself abroad, thou shalt dig therewith,. and shall turn back and cover that which cometh from thee.”

Under the primitive conditions of that early day we find an appreciation of the dangers of exposed excremental matter, and the embodiment of the principles of the earth-pit which, to the present time, remains about the safest, simplest and most satisfactory method of disposal of human wastes where water carriage is not possible. In homes and communities not served by water supply the sanitary pit privy, properly constructed and maintained, provides a degree of protection to health which is second only to the modem plumbing system, and many thousands of these structures are being built and reconditioned yearly in North Carolina to serve such purposes according to standard plans and under the supervision of trained inspectors of the State and local health departments. No claim is made that any privy is equal or superior to the plumbing system but under conditions where water supply and sewerage are not available they are necessary and are found to be a satisfactory expedient.

Development of Public Sewer Systems

The ideal method of removing excreta, household and industrial wastes is by the water carriage system. With water supply and sewerage ana proper plumbing the excreta are at once washed away into a system of closed pipes and removed promptly and completely from the vicinity of the dwelling, thereby eliminating the possibility of nuisance conditions and disease infection. The recognition of these facts is a comparatively recent event and the use of the water carriage system for removal of excreta from the household is essentially a modem one, younger by centuries than the systems of public water supply. The Cloaca Maxima of Rome and other so-called sewers of antiquity were drains rather than sewers, their function being to lower the ground water level and carry surface water. They received only liquid wastes and did not carry excreta and household wastes. Until 1815 the discharge of any wastes but kitchen slops into the drains of London was prohibited by law. Other wastes were taken care of largely by the surface gutters along the narrow streets, into which the liquids were thrown through open windows from buck-kets conveniently kept in the houses until they were overflowing. Householders were often not very meticulous in the separation of these wastes, and sometimes were inconsiderate of the safety and comfort of the passerby in the time chosen for discharging them into the gutter below. A story is told by Boswell in ms biography of Johnson which describes the peril at which a person

Digitized by

Google
225

of that day ventured forth on the streets of London for his daily constitutional. The two of them were enjoying their usual friendly evening walk and chat, when all unannounced, a deluge descended upon them from an upper window. Boswell was the less fortunate of the two, and Johnson admonished him: “Keep thee away, for I can smell thee in the dark.” In Paris it was not until 1880 that excreta and solid wastes were permitted to be discharged into the sewers, and the same methods of gutter disposal were in vogue as in London. It was customary, and typical of that delightful French courtesy, for the person to yell without looking, “Gardez l’eau” (“Look out for the water”) when a bucket of miscellaneous wastes was thrown, and expect the pedestrian to get out of the way. Almost every street presented a chorus of "Gardez l’eau’s” and a spectacle of jumping, shivering, cursing Frenchmen. During certain hours of the evening, when the down pour was heaviest, umbrellas were generally carried to afford some degree of protection.

Modem sewerage and sewage disposal really had its begin-ing in the epoch making report of the Health of Towns Commission of Great Britain in 1844, which revealed the accumulation of such an astonishing amount of decomposing organic matter and filth of all kinds in the cities that it aroused British sanitarians to a strong movement for the amelioration of these conditions. Public and private cleanliness was taught and practiced as never before. Sanitary plumbing came into being, and the pail system of sewage disposal gave way to the water carriage system. Only three years thereafter, in 1847, it was required by law that all sewage be discharged into those drains from which it had been excluded by law in 1815. Other cities in Europe and America followed London’s lead, some very slowly. In America the first comprehensive system of sewers was designed by E. S. Ches-brough for the city of Chicago in 1855, while the first system of separate sewers in this country, in which sewage was conveyed separately from storm water, was built at Memphis, Tennessee, by Colonel Waring in 1880. We see that sanitary plumbing and sewage are comparatively young arts—only fifty years old. And it was not until years later that the hygienic aspects of sewage disposal assumed the importance that it commands today. It has been but 50 years since Pasteur established the germ theory of disease, and less than that since Koch and other workers isolated and identified specific disease organisms. Until that time the presence or significance of pathogenic organisms in sewage were unknown, raw sewage was discharged into the streams, public water supplies were not purified, and the great prevalence of disease was attributed largely to the effect of sewer gas. Sewage treatment devices have been in general use for only twenty years or so, but in this short time their effect has been demonstrated in the remarkable decrease in death rate from the intestinal diseases.

Digitized by LjOOQle
226

Nature’s Method of Waste Disposal

To most people the word sewage conveys the idea of something that should be gotten out of sight and disposed of in the easiest, quickest way. The popular understanding of the term “sewage disposal” is getting it out of sight and out of the way. But there is a far deeper significance. Sewage disposal in its fullest sense implies the ultimate and complete reversion of all its unstable organic ingredients to the stable inorganic or mineral form. To discharge sewage into a stream, or to bury it in the soil, is only the first step in the process of complete disposal. Nature then takes it ana through her agencies finally accomplishes its complete disposal. In present day practice, sewage treatment is only a step in that direction. It is partial disposal by artificial means, employing the agencies of nature for biochemical oxidation of the organic matter through the activity of living organisms. When the author of the Mosaic law directed that human excrement be buried he only voiced a custom which had come down through the ages. From the beginning of time the earth had been the burial ground for the wastes of animals and vegetable life, there to undergo transformation into mineral substances which again would support organic life, and which, in turn, would die, decay, and be transformed. It remained for the modem science of bacteriology, which has come into being in our own life time, to explain these mysterious processes of transformation which have been going on since life began. Modem biological methods of sewage treatment are only adaptations of the universal laws of growth and decay; tanks and filters are only incubation beds in which the processes of nature are utilized, and often hastened, but the processes are the same today as they were in the time of Moses. Hence, to understand sewage treatment, we must understand the ability of the soil to transform organic matter and the factors governing the processes of decay.

The Nature of Bacterial Decomposition

Practically all forms of matter have the property of being convertible into other forms. Some change easily and rapidly, others more slowly. Every one is familiar with the rusting of iron, the rotting of wood, or the putrefaction of meat. Iron is more resistant to change than wood and wood is more stable than meat. Iron changes its form by direct chemical action, or oxidation. Wood and meat decay by what we term biochemical action, and are the result of destructive bacterial action. Sewage, as we have seen, contains a certain amount of unstable organic material which, when acted upon by bacteria, readily undergoes decomposition. This material serves as food for the organisms, and utilizing it, they multiply rapidly. Under natural conditions, in sewage, in the soil, in streams, wherever organic matter is found, there also will be found bacteria which live upon it and effect its transformation into mineral form. The substances which furnish the most attractive food for the bacteria are the ones which are most quickly attacked and destroyed. This is

Digitized by LjOOQle
227

a reason that meat decays more quickly than wood. Moisture is essential to bacterial activity; dryness usually kills the organism. Some forms of bacteria require air for life, and are called aerobes; others work in the absence of air and are known as anaerobes. Still other forms can adjust themselves to either environment and are known as factultative forms. The natural process of decay, which is the process adapted to sewage treatment, may, therefore, be briefly expressed as a biochemical change by which the bacteria convert the organic material into more stable substances which are harmless and innocuous. Sewage treatment plants do not usually complete the transformation; they do part of the work and leave it to natural agencies to complete the job.

The Two Objectives in Sewage Treatment

In the treatment of sewage there are two very different functions to be considered. One is to get rid of the foul, putrescible matter with its accompanying offensive smell and appearance; the other is to get rid of living, disease producing organisms. One is very largely a physical and biological problem, while the other is chiefly bacteriological. One affects the public health only indirectly; the other directly. In sewage treatment practice it is necessary to consider for each individual case which of these functions is of paramount importance, and the degree of removal of organic materials or bacteria, or both, that is demanded. This information must be in hand before suitable treatment appliances can be chosen. It would be folly to go to great lengths to remove all bacteria from sewage when the problem is one of nuisance correction; it would be worse to attempt to remove only organic solids and allow bacteria to remain when the problem is the protection of a domestic water supply. It is wasteful to treat sewage to a greater degree than conditions demand; it is disastrous to provide less treatment than is required.

Classification of Domestic Sewage Treatment Plants

Sewage treatment devices are many and various in character. In municipal practice many different types and combinations of plants are utilized to accomplish desired results. Each type has its advantages, functions, limitations, and suitability to particular conditions, the discussion of which cannot be attempted in this brief article. The solution of municipal sewage problems, the selection, design, construction and operation of suitable plants is the function of the expert sanitary engineer who makes such work his specialty. These problems are very complex and judgment should never be rendered or treatment plants designed until extensive investigations have been made and all available data are in hand. I assume that the reader of this article will be more interested in the types of treatment works which he might employ in connection with residential or institutional sewage disposal where the treatment plant is too small to justify the employment of an experienced sanitary engineer. In as brief a space as possible several types of plants which are used for such purposes

Digitized by L.ooQLe
228

will be mentioned, some of the defects and advantages of each will be pointed out and references given to reliable sources of information on the subject.

According to the functions which they perform the ordinary home and institutional treatment appliances may be divided into the following three general classes:

1.	Sedimentation devices, such as cesspools, septic tanks, and Imhoff tanks, which are employed to settle out of the sewage the heavier suspended materials and decompose the precipitated sludge through bacterial action.

2.	Oxidation devices, such as subsoil irrigation, sand filters, and trickling filters, which are designed to receive the effluents from sedimentation tanks and effect a further removal of solids and bacteria by physical straining and the oxidizing action of aerobic bacteria.

3.	Disinfection devices, such as chlorination with chlorine gas or chloride of lime in which the effluents from tanks or filters is treated with sufficient amounts of the sterilizing agent to kill the dangerous organisms still remaining in the sewage.

Sedimentation Devices

Cesspools: A cesspool is the reverse of a well. A deep hole dug into the ground, and its sides usually lined with open joint boards or with brick or stone masonry laid mortar. The solids of the sewage are retained in the pit where they undergo decomposition while the liquid leaches out through its bottom and sides into ground water. In time the pores of the earth surrounding the pit will become clogged with sewage solids, soil absorption stops, and the cesspool becomes filled with sewage and overflows to the surface of the ground, causing obnoxious and dangerous conditions. Under North Carolina subsoil conditions of impervious clay this type of plant would not function. In regions having porous sandy subsoil absorption might be obtained for a considerable length of time. But under any conditions a cesspool is a potential menace, and its installation should be generally prohibited. By its use raw sewage, with its myriads of bacteria, is fed directly into the stream of ground water with the chance of infecting with disease organisms the water of wells in the vicinity. In North Carolina the installation of this type of treatment is not allowed by public health organizations.

Septic Tanks: Septic tanks differ from cesspools in being relatively shallow and naving their bottoms and walls constructed of water tight materials. Sewage can enter or leave the closed tank only through the openings which are provided for the purpose, near the ground surface, with no chance for contamination of the ground water by leaching. Septic tanks are usually constructed of concrete, built either in place or precast, though commercial firms market tanks made of metal. The capacity of the tank is such as to retain the sewage entering it for a period of about 24 hours. As an example, let us assume that a tank is to be designed for a family of six people. The domestic consump-
229

tion of water is about 80 gallons per capita per day. Then the minimum effective capacity of the tank should be 6x80 or 480 gallons. For schools and factories the per capita water consumption would be different, and this difference would be considered in the determination of the required tank capacity. Careful consideration must also be given to the shape and dimensions of the tank, for these factors govern the distribution and velocity of flow through it and also the distance which the suspended matter must travel in settling. It must be kept in mind that the function of the septic tank is to remove settleable solids from the sewage and digest these solids by bacterial action, and the design should be such as to accomplish this purpose most effectively. The sewage should be introduced into the tank, stilled, and allowed to remain in as quiescent a state as possible until it is removed. The hydraulic properties of the rectangular tank are much superior to those of the circular one. In the circular type of tank usually supplied by commercial manufacturers, there are variable velocities, tendencies toward short-circuiting, and the depth is usually too great in proportion to the diameter. When such tanks are used in batteries for institutional service these shortcomings are only multiplied. Battery installations have usually been found to be unsatisfactory and a waste of money. A much superior residential tank, and one which has been proved through experience gained in thousands of installations in this State is the standard individual tank of the North Carolina State Board of Health. For institutional service a slightly different type of standard septic tank has been developed by the State Board of Health and is now being installed, and used with entire satisfaction in hundreds of schools, industries, and suburban developments.

As the sewage passes through the tank in a practically quiescent state the settleable solids precipitate to the bottom as sludge and the substances, such as grease and grease-coated particles, which are lighter than water rise to the top of the liquid and form a layer of scum. These solids are attacked by anaerobic bacteria, which, in the process of digestion, change the character of the matter from an organic to a mineralized state and reduce its volume to a considerable extent. The residue which remains must be removed at intervals. Small residential septic tanks require cleaning at intervals of three or four years. Larger tanks should have the sludge drawn off more often, perhaps once or twice a year. Sludge valves should be provided in the institutional tanks by which the digested material may be drawn by gravity onto sludge beds of sand and gravel and dried. In any plant the sludge should be removed at intervals frequent enough to keep the accumulation on the tank bottoms from materially reducing the volume of the tank and increasing the velocity to an extent that sedimentation is impeded.

A well designed and well operated septic tank should remove about 65 per cent of the suspended solids of sewage and about 30 per cent of its organic content. It seems to be the popular

Digitized by L^OOQle
230

belief that when sewage is passed through a septic tank it is purified and rendered safe for any disposition. This is far from truth. Only a portion of the suspended organic matter has been removed, and none of the dissolved putrescible matter. Some of its original bacteria have been precipitated with the solids, hut many more have been added by the septic processes within the tank, so that from the bacterial standpoint the effluent leaving a septic tank usually ccntains a great many more organisms than the raw sewage entering it. There is probably a reduction in disease producing bacteria by the tank treatment, but there is no assurance that all pathogenic forms have been eliminated. It is still just as dangerous as a source of infection as was the raw sewage, and is never suitable for discharge onto the surface of the ground, into a dry ditch, or into a stream which is used nearby as a source of water supply or for recreational

}imposes. To be rendered safe for sucn discharge the effluent rom the tank should be subjected to some form of secondary or oxidizing treatment, which will be discussed later.

Imhoff	Tanks:This type	of sedimentation and digestion

tank was devised by Dr. Karl Imhoff, of Germany, hence the name. It is similar in action to the septic tank, but differs from it in having two chambers, the upper, or flowing through compartment through which the raw sewage passes at a low velocity, and the lower or sludge compartment in which the anaerobic digestion of the precipitated solids takes place. Another point of difference in this type of tank is the retention period of the sewage, the flowing through chamber being designed to hold the sewage about two hours, and discharge it in a fresh condition before septic action has set in. The solids settle to the bottom of the flow chamber, slide down its steep slopes, and pass through the slot into the digestion chamber below. This slot is trapped in such a way that the gases generated by the bacterial activity in the sludge chamber cannot enter the flow chamber above, but are deflected through the gas vents into the atmosphere. The advantages of this type of treatment are in the complete separation of digesting sludge from the raw sewage, which results in a lower content of solids in the effluent, and in the preservation of the fresh condition of the sewage, which facilitates secondary treatment. However, this form of tank is more complicated, and consequently more expensive, than the septic tank and is not frequently used to serve less than 50 people. It is primarily a device employed in municipal sewage treatment. Space does not permit a discussion of the factors governing its design or operation. If the use of this type of treatment is contemplated, it is advised that the State Board of Health be consulted for design data and suggestions.

Oxidation Devices

Subsurface Irrigation: The two forms of tank treatment mentioned above remove from the sewage only a part of the organic materials and an even smaller percentage of the bacteria. If a
231

greater degree of removal of these constituents is demanded, as in practically all cases of residential and institutional treatment it is, additional treatment of the effluents must be employed. Secondary treatment accomplishes nitrification of the organic matter through the agency of aerobic nitrifying bacteria. The sewage is passed through some form of filtering medium of porous material, open to the air, in which the bacteria grow and feed upon the sewage ingredients as food as it trickles through the filtering material. , This filter may be the soil of the earth, sand beds, or beds of crushed stone, lath or brush.

The form of secondary treatment which is in most cases applicable to residential plants is the subsurface irrigation method, which consists of open joint farm drain tile laid near the ground surface in sandy soil or in trenches filled with cinders or broken stone.

It is essential that the absorption lines be near enough to the ground surface, usually not more than 18 inches, to permit air to circulate freely through the soil surrounding the pipe. The lines should be placed practically level, and the tops of the joints covered with tar paper to exclude sand. The lengths of line required for complete absorption will depend entirely upon the absorptive qualities of the soil. For average North Carolina conditions the minimum length of line should be 100 feet, and in the clay regions several hundred feet is often required. Complete absorption must be obtained at any cost. Sewage must never appear on the surface of the ground. In general, it has been found impossible in this State to obtain satisfactory operation of such nitrification beds for plants larger than the residential size, due to adverse soil conditions. It is usually more economical and more satisfactory to employ sand filters in such cases. Since the nitrifying bacteria function by the aid of air, it is advantageous to have the absorption lines dosed intermittently instead of continuously. On the residential plant this is accomplished very satisfactorily by the flushing of house fixtures. On larger plants, in which the sewage flow is more uniform dosing tanks equipped with siphons are employed for this purpose.

Sand Filters: Sand filters consist of natural or artificially constructed beds of coarse sand about 36 inches deep, underlaid with 4 to 6 inches of graded gravel, with an underdrainage system of open joint tile sloping toward a common outlet to convey the the filtered sewage away. The surface area should be about 32 square feet per person served by the plant, if the sewage has been previously settled. Beds should always be divided into two units, so that one bed may be rested, cleaned or repaired without interrupting the operation of the plant. Intermitttent dosage of sewage onto the beds is necessary, so that the interstices of the sand may be filled with air between doses. This is accomplished by means of the dosing tank and siphons, as above described. The action of the nitrifying bacteria is the same as in the case of disposal by soil absorption, but, due to its facilities for control and cleaning, this type of plant may be kept in successful opera-

Digitized by L^ooQle
232

tion indefinitely. A very high efficiency of solids and bacteria removal may be obtained. From 90 to 98 per cent of the total organic content of sewage may be easily removed, and from 89 to 99 per cent of the bacteria. Being dosed intermittently and at infrequent intervals, the sewage quickly disappears into the sand bed, leaving on its surface the sewage solids which are rapidly dried. There is no pooling, no nuisance production, and no chance of fly carriage of infection such as occur when sewage is discharged onto the surface of the ground.

Trickling Filters: This method of secondary treatment employs a bed of crushed stone, coke, lath, or brush over which the sewage is sprayed or otherwise distributed intermittently and allowed to trickle through the coarse filtering medium. Broken stone of about 1 to 2J^ inches in size is the filtering material usually employed. As the sewage passes in thin films from top to bottom of the 5 to 9 foot layer of stone it is oxidized by the aerobic bacteria and other biological forms of life which thrive in the gelatinous coating which covers the surfaces of the individual stones, the dissolved and organic matter of the sewage being removed through absorption and adsorption by the gelatinous material. Air circulates freely through the bed, induced by the intermittent dosage of the sewage from some type of dosing chamber through spray nozzles, or in the smaller plants, from a tipping trough device. The filtrate is collected by a system of underdrains extending beneath the bed. The volume of stone required is about 8 cubic feet per person tributary to the works assuming the sewage has previously been passed through settling tanks. Humus tanks are usually placed after the filters to settle out the materials which slough off periodically from the stones of the filter. The efficiency of trickling filters is somewhat lower than that of sand filters, but with good design and operation and in combination with settling devices they should remove from 65 to 70 per cent of the total organic matter, and from 90 to 95 per cent of the bacteria.

Disinfection Devices

Disinfection: With none of the treatment works described can there be assurance that all of the disease-producing bacteria will be eliminated. As a final step in the process of treatment chlorination is often employed where bacterial purity is demanded. For effective sterilization chlorine should preferably be applied to tank or filter effluents, as solid materials in raw sewage envelop the bacteria and impair the efficiency of the process. Only very small amounts of chlorine are necessary to produce a high efficiency in bacteria removal. It may be applied either as a solution of chloride of lime or as a gas through a feeding device known as a chlorinator.

Conclusions

Sewage treatment is a highly specialized science. Rule-of-thumb methods do not apply to the design or operation of treatment works, and stock plants cannot be made to fit any and all

Digitized by (^.ooQle
233

conditions. Many factors enter into the determination of the degree of sewage treatment required, the choice of type of plant, and its design, location, construction and operation. Before proceeding with the design or construction of any type of sewage treatment plant, whether it is to serve a residence, an institution, a community, an industrial plant or a municipality, the safe practice is to consult with specialists in this line of work, men who devote all of their time to the study and solution of problems of this kind, and who have had a wealth of experience. The agency to which I refer is the Bureau of Sanitary Engineering of your State Board of Health. Their advice will be given freely and without cost. Hundreds of thousands of dollars have been wasted in North Carolina by the installation of treatment plants that were of faulty design and inadequate to afford the degree of treatment demanded of them. And more serious than the financial losses entailed is the false sense of security that has imperiled the lives of people who were thus deceived.

Some of the points to be remembered in connection with plants for the treatment of domestic sewage are:

That no type of plant can be forgotten when it is once installed. Some plants require more attention than others, but none will continue to function satisfactorily without some care and operation.

That the bacteria in a tank do not reduce all of the sewage solids to liquid and gas. A sludge residue does collect which requires periodic cleaning.

That a tank does not produce an odorless effluent. Unless a stream is available that may be used for receiving the discharge, some form of secondary oxidizing treatment must be employed for treating the settled sewage, if nuisance conditions are to be avoided. Raw or settled sewage must never be discharged onto the ground or into a dry ditch.

That a sedimentation tank of any type does not produce a purified effluent. Its function is to settle out of the sewage part of the coarser putrescible solid materials, but it effects very little change in the bacterial characteristics. However secondary treatment by filtration devices produces a very high degree of bacterial reduction. Beware of the person who says that the effluent from any treatment device is fit for drinking purposes!

That stock type of treatment plants are not adapted to any and all conditions, and when indiscriminately installed will not guarantee a satisfactory system of disposal. The degree of treatment and the means for accomplishing it should be governed by a study of the case in question.

That because state and national agencies endorse certain methods of sewage treatment they do not endorse all appliances which are offered for sale.

That battery installations of septic tanks do not function satisfactorily, and are a waste of money. If an institution, an industry or a community is to be served, a single unit of adequate size should always be installed.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
234

That tight clay and gumbo soil are impervious substances, and cannot provide absorption of sewage effluents. In general, it is inadvisable to attempt soil absorption with plants larger than the residential size. Sand and trickling filters are highly efficient and are preferable forms of secondary treatment.

That in no case should raw or settled sewage be discharged into a stream used for water supply or recreational purposes.

That in sewage treatment practice sewage is not “purified.” One or more steps in that direction are taken by “treating” it.

That authoritative and sound advice on any problem of sewage treatment may be had for the asking.

“THE NEGLECTED AGE”

By Elizabeth Cole

“The neglected age” is a term that we are hearing with increasing frequency—at lectures, in newspapers and magazines. What w the neglected age?

Two years ago, Miss Jessamine S. Whitney, Statistician of the National Tuberculosis Association, in analyzing tuberculosis deaths by age groups, found that while the death-rate from tuberculosis in general had declined 36 per cent in the last decade, the death-rate at the ages 15 to 25 bad declined only one-half that amount or 18 per cent for the same period. The greatest decline was shown for children under five, while in the age group 25-44 it had declined 42 per cent. For children between the ages of 5 and 14 it had declined 41 per cent. It was the group from 15 to 24 that had made little progress in overcoming tuberculosis. This period she therefore named “the neglected age.”

Why is it that with better living conditions, increased kowledge of sanitation and health rules these younger people are not ben-efitting as they should? This is a question that at present cannot be answered. Conjectures have been made and the problems presented by this group are in the embryonic process of being solved.

Over one-third of the boys and girls from 15 to 19 years old are in high schools. As students they are not supposed to suffer hardships that are often forced on their less fortunate brothers and sisters who are out earning money at this age. It is known, of course, that the physiological changes taking place in the adolescent period tend to weaken the resistance of boys and girls. And girls who at this age think it proper to diet and keep slim, as their mothers are doing, really are injuring their chances for health. Late hours, fatigue, scanty clothing (for after all warmth outside is as necesary as is the inside warmth furnished by the fuel, food), extra strain and responsibility that oftentimes come with student life, as well as with factory or industrial life, all help to influence this high mortality from tuberculosis. For

Digitized by t^ooQle
235

that disease attacks the run-down body. The healthy person readily overcomes the tuberculosis germs that invade the body.

What can be done to help the situation? We do know the answer to that question. During these years, whether your boy or girl is in school, college, or out in the business world, careful watch should be kept over the general health. Teeth should not be neglected, infected tonsils and adenoids must be removed, defects of vision and hearing must be corrected, skin disorders treated, frequent colds must be considered serious. Above all things, good nourishing food with plenty of fruit and vegetables to prevent constipation and sufficient rest plus a well-balanced diet and fresh air will go toward building strong bodies and a physical system that is fortified to throw off sickness. In other words prevention, that plays a far more important role in modern medicine than cure, will anticipate the attack of tuberculosis.

For twenty-five years the National Tuberculosis Association and its affiliated state and local associations, have been seeking to teach the importance of sickness prevention. They feel that if health rules are practiced in childhood it is far easier to follow the good habits in older life. Their campaign is supported by the annual sale of Christmas Seals in December. Help them to solve the problem of the “neglected age."

COLD WEATHER AND FRESH AIR

This is the season when the thermometer and the windows go down at the same time. With the arrival of the first chill breeze sashes are lowered and doors closed against the outdoor air as against a bitter enemy. This is a system that has its drawbacks, however. It is well enough to protect ourselves against cold, but in shunning fresh air too much, we are apt to run the risk of lowering our resistance against disease. No air is so healthful as outdoor air, and we need a quantity of it every day in order to keep well.

Now that the winter is upon us, let us not neglect to keep our bedroom windows open while we sleep. In an era of electric pads, hot water bottles and warm, light covering, there is no reason why we cannot have a comfortable night’s rest in a cold room. Only in very severe climates is it perhaps advisable not to keep the windows wide open at night.

Moreover, we can work more efficiently and more contentedly in home, shop or office, if the windows are opened for a few minutes several times a day. And let us remember that a brisk, daily walk tones up the system so that we do not feel the cold so much. To educate the public in the value of fresh air and in disease prevention, the National Tuberculosis Association and its affiliated organizations are conducting the twenty-first Christmas seal sale.

Digitized by Google
236

EARLY COURAGE VS. LATE REGRET

By Helena L. Williams

In spite of the best efforts of the doctors, it is still difficult for the average person to realize that it is cheaper and easier to stay-well than it is to get well. A lot of people think that it is brave to believe that the pain that bothers them will wear off without their doing anything about it. Some have a fear complex and won’t go to the doctor because he might find something the matter with them. There is neither logic nor common sense in either of these attitudes. For example, one of the most insidious diseases, one that creeps upon its victims with almost no pain and but little other warning, is tuberculosis. Loss of weight and appetite, a stubborn cough, a persistent feeling of fatigue, are the commonplace indications of it; symptoms so familiar that we often treat them with contempt. Neglect, however, may lead to months, even years of serious illness, and perhaps the loss of life itself. Thousands of patients have recovered from tuberculosis, but there would have been many legions more if they had faced their problem in time.

If one has a broken limb, one does not go about hoping that it will “wear off.” Why, then, should we take equally absurd chances with our lungs?

The National Tuberculosis Association, and its affiliated organizations, is conducting an active campaign to stress the importance of the early diagnosis of tuberculosis. The twenty-first annual Christmas seal sale will be held to supply funds for this and other phases of the tuberculosis campaign.

“I WILL DO THE REST”

By Elizabeth Cole

In this busy day and generation when everybody is trying to make a record of some kind—when the papers are full of “speed tests,” and “new marks set” it’s a good idea to give a thought to the snail and tortoise story. “Slow and steady wins the race” was the lesson in old Aesop’s fable and there’s more truth than romance in that motto.

We are burning up too much energy nowadays and it is a difficult problem to get people to realize just what “hustle bustle” and “doggone” tiredness can do to the body. A noted authority on fatigue study has said, “exertion not only uses up temporarily the energy of the body but it also generates a sort of poison which slows one down for the time being.” As the amount of energy becomes more and more used up without giving the body sufficient periods of rest, the poison accumulates until it is a real menace. Naturally this means that time, effort and efficien-

Digitized by CaOOQle
237

cy are wasted. While we may have speeded up and seemingly have produced a record breaker, we have in the end but thrown away our strength and energy.

Wasted time, caused by unnecessary fatigue is really caused by ignorance—either our own or somebody else’s. All the soundproof devices, the inventions to save extraneous exertion, the modem improvements in factories and workshops will be of no lasting benefit toward promoting efficiency and comfort if men and women do not contribute their own individual intelligence in using them.

Fatigue is due to a chemical waste that circulates in the blood. Scientists have shown that certain chemical fatigue substances, when injected into animals, produce all the symptoms of fatigue. A tired person is a poisoned person. As long as there is a balance of rest, during which time the blood has a chance to purify itself, (and nature has arranged for this) all is well. But when this chemical poisoning is allowed to continue for a period of time it will poison the muscles, poison the brain, the heart, the blood, the whole body.

Chronic fatigue seldom is the direct cause of death, but it is very often the cause of frequent colds, grippe and what we call minor sicknesses, as well as of more serious sicknesses. When the body is run down, the resistance to germs is weak. Chronic fatigue is probably one of the causes of tuberculosis. Certainly fatigue is one of the early danger signs of that disease.

We must learn to be honest with ourselves and recognize when we are living on our nerve. We must not try to fool ourselves that we have only a temporary ennui, as we are so apt to do. When we are “fagged out” we should not be considered lazy if, for a few days, we apply that little rhyme,

“Since in laboring and resting Life is divided at best,

Let the others do the laboring And I will do the rest.”

“Sit down on the job,” as it were, for those few days. Sit out in the sunshine and air—if it’s a cold day, bundle up and do it just the same. If you haven’t any yard to sit in—open a window and sit in front of that for a while. Relax your mind and and don’t worry about business, the baby’s shoes or the next meal. Realize that if you don’t favor yourself for a short time now, you may very likely have to take more “time off’’ later because of real sickness. Walk at noon, eat nourishing foods, drink plenty of water and most important of all, go to bed early.

It is to teach the dangers of such sickness forerunners as fatigue that the National Tuberculosis Association and its affiliated associations carry on their educational campaign. In the past twenty-five years the knowledge of how to prevent tuberculosis has caused the death-rate from that disease to decrease from 200 per 100,000 to 87 per 100,000 population in 1926. Their work is supported by the Christmas Seal Sales held annually in December.

Digitized by L^ooQLe
238

BOOK REVIEWS

“Natural Dance Studies” by Helen Norman Smith. Published by A. S. Barnes and Company 11 1-4” by 8 3-4” bound in cloth - Price $2.00.

In this volume we have new rhythm compositions - twenty three in number - by Miss Smith, under tne headings "free rhythms”, “dramatic rhythms”, and “dance studies”. All of these are based on the natural dancing idea of interpretation rather than teaching (or learning) set steps. The fundamentals are the walk, skip, run, and leap. The free rhythms and dramatic rhythms are intended for children in the Elementary grades and the dance studies for Junior and Senior High School and University students.

The book will be of great use to teachers of natural dancing. The descriptions are clear, and the dances graded according to difficulty and of sufficient variety to assure interest.

Most of the music for the free and dramatic rhythms is Miss Smith’s own composition and the selection of the other compositions seems to be of excellent choice for this type of work.

—Janet B. Walter.

“A Teacher’s Manual of Physical Education” by Henry Panzer, M. G. Published by A. S. Barnes & Co. 1928. New York Cloth bound, 237 pages. Price, $2.00.

This revised edition of the original “Manual” has been enriched by adding singing games, mimetic exercises, and gymnastic stories to the content for grades 1 and 2 in Course I. In Course II and III the original material of the first edition has been supplemented by the addition of athletic exercises, games, folk dances, tumbling, stunts, and efficiency tests.

It is essentially a book of content and methods arranged on a graded plan embracing three courses. The first course is for grades 1, 2, 3, 4; the second course for grades 5, 6; and the third for grades 7, 8 and Junior and Senior High School. Preceding the parts devoted to the three courses are two chapters giving suggestions for the selection and practice of exercises, methods of teaching, and illustrative lessons.

The regular classroom teacher and the special teacher will find a rich course of material in Courses I, II, III dealing with imaginative expressions for walking and running; exercises for running, standing, lying, kneeling; balance exercises; folk dancing; gymnastic story plays; apparatus exercises; games; tumbling; stunts; and athletics. The section devoted to athletics is not presented in as accurate and thorough a manner as the rest of the material.

The section of the book devoted to swimming has been taken bodily from the “Manual of Physical Training for the United States Army.” The breast stroke is explained in great detail at the expense of the side and back strokes. Although the im-

Digitized by CaOOQle
239

portance of this stroke may be justified by the aim established for the army, it does not coincide with the aim held today by many teachers.

The Sylvester Method of resuscitation is no longer recognized as the most efficient method by such organizations as the American Red Cross, National Safety Council, and Boy Scouts of America.

The book in general is very valuable to the teacher because of its richness in the fundamentally sound activities given in Courses I, II, III. In these sections, and in the first two chapters, the author has made a very worthy contribution.

—Kiefer.

Personal Hygiene Applied, by Jesse Feiring Williams, M. D., Professor of Physical Education, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York City. Third edition, reset. 12mo of 458 pages, illustrated. Philadelphia and London. W. B. Saunders Company, 1928. Cloth, $2.00 net.

The author has planned this book for college students, but expresses the hope that it may not be restricted to the school or college field. “Physicians, teachers, nurses, social workers require a book which they may recommend to parents or patients in need of guidance for living. The emphasis on the mental and social aspects of health, as well as the physical, suggests its usefulness in facilitating social adjustments.”

As in the case of the two earlier editions, we are very glad to recommend this new revision of Personal Hygiene Applied. Our readers are so well acquainted with the reputation of the author and the excellence of his writings in the field of hygiene that it is unnecessary to say more at this time than to point out that Dr. Williams has very thoroughly revised his book, incorporating the new material which has developed in that field. There have been many changes throughout the book including the addition of valuable material in the chapter on Prevention in Specific Diseases.

“Sex Hygiene”, the anatomy, physiology, and hygiene of the sex organs, by Dr. Julia Kinberg Von Sneidem and Dr. Alma Sundquist. Translated from the Swedish by Mary E. Collett, Ph. D. Published by Henry Holt and Company, New York, 1926. Price $1.75; boutad in cloth, 5 1-2” x 8 1-4”, 114 pages including preface, introduction, and index.

This complete little text has just recently come to our attention, although the first edition appeared in Sweden fifteen years ago. The book was originally intended as a reference book for parents and teachers. The present form, adapted from the 1925 Swedish edition, is well suited for teachers and students of physiology and hygiene as a supplementary text. The treatment at times is quite superficial and the illustrations more detailed than the subject matter warrants. Perhaps the effectiveness of the book could be increased if fewer topics were included and more thorough treatment given.—H. L. Conrad.

Digitized by
240

“Work and Recreation During Apprenticeship” is the title of a pamphlet published recently by the Hanseatic Publishing House at Hamburg, Germany. In this publication Dr. Hoske reports upon a number of investigations conducted in the sanatorium for youths, situated at Lobeda near Jena, Germany, the results of which are of special significance to physical education and sport.

The undernourished, poor conditioned apprentices of the national German Clerks Association are gathered at this sanatorium for three-weekly health courses. The aim of the course is to restore these patients to full working capacity in a short period. By means of correctly distributed work and rest Dr. Hoske attempts to approach this aim as nearly as possible. Through an accurate distribution of physical work, rest and periods of lying down it was possible to bring back these apprentices to a degree of healthfulness equalling that of the average normal youth.

According to the dynamometer there was an average increase of 10 per cent in physical performance, but only an increase of 1.5 per cent in weight. It appears from this that it is wrong to measure the regaining of health merely by an increase in weight.

Weight increase is valuable only when combined with an increase in physical achievement. The increase should be in live muscular tissue and not in dead fat. Further gains were increased lung capacity and an improvement of blood circulation. A disappearance of the customary signs of illness and of fatigue indicated physical improvement and also a better mental and psychic condition of these youths.

Conclusions drawn after a period of three years of work would be as follows:

a)	there is no need for a special period of indulgence, of pampering, for weak apprentices.

b)	most good can be accomplished if these weaklings are given sufficient and suitable muscular work followed by appropriate rest periods.

c)	there should be frequent compulsory examinations of all apprentices so as to detect early those whose physical performance is below normal, and those who are approaching illness.

A. Sleeker.

RUGBY TOUCH.*

1.	Ground.—160 feet by 90 feet. 20 feet from the goal line a line parallel to it is drawn. The space between these two lines is the off-side area. In the centre of the pitch is a circle 4 feet in diameter.

•Reprint from Physical Education, England.

Digitized by CaOOQle
241

2.	Teams.—9 a side—4 forwards, 3 halves, 2 backs.

3.	Apparatus.—Association Football.

4.	The Game.—The ball is bounced by the umpire in the centre circle between the two opposing centres who stand outside the circle and face the opponents’ goal line. The ball may not be played until it has bounced, and must then first be touched by one of the centres. The game is played by passing ball from one player to another until a try is scored. A try is scored when the ball is received by a player having both feet outside the offside area, carried by him and placed on the ground beyond the opponents’ goal line. The ball must be touched down on the ground by the hand, it is not sufficient to throw the ball down. Passing may be made in any direction. The ball may be carried by the player. Directly a player in possession of the ball is touched on any part of the body by an opponent, he must pass, or otherwise get rid of the ball before he takes another complete step. After being touched a player must not retain the ball for a longer period than two seconds. When the ball passes over either the side or goal lines it is deemed out of play and is returned by a throw-in from the point where it crossed the line. The throw-in is taken by a member of the team opposite to that of the player who last touched it.

5.	Fouls.—(a) Holding, tackling, tripping or barging an opponent. Knocking ball out of opponent’s hands.

(6)	Rough play.

(c) Kicking or fisting ball.

id) Carrying ball after being touched.

(e)	Touching ball before it has bounced at start of game or after each try. When ball is touched by a player other than one of the centres at start of game or after try has been scored.

(/) Off-side.—When a player receives the ball whilst standing in his opponents’ off-side area. This does not prevent a player from running forward into his opponents’ offside area and picking up the ball from the ground provided it has not been rolled into that position by a player on his own side.

6.	Penalty.—All fouls are penalised by a free throw against the offending side, taken from the spot where the foul occurs.

Note.—When two opposing players either (a) gain possession of the ball at the same time or (b) commit any foul at the same time, the umpire shall bounce the ball between these two players at the spot wnere the infringement occurred.

7.	Umpires.—One umpire shall take charge of the game and shall be assisted by two linesmen, whose duty shall be to assist the umpire when appealed to by the umpire to determine the location of the “throw-in” and to notify the umpire when a player has been touched. Umpire and linesmen are debarred from coaching during a game. The umpire shall give all decisions without waiting for an appeal.

Digitized by Tooele
242

8.	Duration of Play.—40 minutes, half time being called after 20 minutes play, when the teams shall change ends.

Editor’s Note: This appears to be a very good game. A similar, but little-known game, has been played here and there in this country for a number of years.

<>■■ • ■ — .»

Health education notes

Sleep. The onset of sleep is probably due to complete muscular relaxation, voluntary or involuntary. This has been substantiated on animals also by Kleitman. They exhibited the same ability to stay awake with apparent ease while the muscles were contracting, and the same inability to resist sleep when the muscles of the body were allowed to relax. There is direct and indirect evidence that anaemia of the brain is not a necessary condition for sleep in puppies. Kleitman adopts the theory of the existence of "levels” in the central nervous system. He accepts the doctrine of Hughlings Jackson that the most complex nervous arrangements, centers and levels are the least organized; the simple, the most organized. The highest levels are conceived to be much more susceptible to fatigue, intoxication or any kind of injury than are the lower levels. Thus sleep may be due to fatigue of the highest centers of consciousness, and dreaming to the persistence of the activity of the lower centers. Kleitman’s latest experiments are in support of the working hypothesis which holds that sleep comes from a decrease in the number of afferent impulses reaching the central nervous system from the sensorium, and that muscular relaxation, decreasing considerably the number of proprioceptive impulses, constitutes the last stage of the process by which sleep is precipitated.

Treatment of Mild Scoliosis by Exercise.—Out of a group of 2,100 students examined by Hawk, 1.9 per cent presented a degree of mild scoliosis sufficient to necessitate their transference to corrective classes for treatment. The subject lies on a padded table with the convex curvature of the spine upward and, with the feet held in position, the weight of the entire head, arms, shoulders and chest is raised and lowered, thereby exercising the musculature of the upper side of the entire trunk. It is essential that considerable resistance be employed in the exercise of these muscles, as the trophic stimulus to a muscle is not greater than the demands placed on it. Only a certain degree of fatigue, however, must be allowed, but the author has found that in corrective work of any kind there is very little danger of the individual exerting himself to the point of overfatigue. The student is also

Extracts from Journal, American Medical Association.

Digitized by LiOOQle
243

instructed to form the habit of standing on one foot—the foot on the side of the convexity—and also, when carrying a weight, such as a sack of books, to carry it in the hand on the side of the concavity, bacause the shoulder girdle thus puts into action the muscles of the opposite, or convex, side of the trunk.

Clean Shirts. A modern hygienist has remarked that our conception of cleanliness has greatly changed with the advance in knowledge of the kinds of dirt, the degrees of dirtiness, and the nature of these dangers. We can no longer be satisfied, he adds, with physical or esthetic cleanliness, but must insist on biologic cleanliness. Invisible bacteria represent undesirable contamination quite as much as obvious matter out of place does. This indicates that in the ultimate analysis the services of a bacteriologist are required to make the distinctions between “clean dirt” and “dirty dirt.” There is an implication, furthermore, that proper cleanliness affords protection against disease. Clean bodies require clean clothes. Heretofore the bacteriology of the latter has received comparatively little detailed consideration, but the improvements in the art of laundering are bringing the subject into somewhat greater prominence and may contribute something to the problem of the possible part played by clothing in the dissemination of microorganisms. Thus, a recent study at the University of Nebraska in Lincoln indicates clearly the increment in bacteria that accumulate in undergarments as they are worn more frequently without washing. From an average count of about

400,000	per square inch after one use, the number increased to nearly 10,000,000 after a shirt was worn six times. The effect of laundering is represented by a reduced count of 1,000 or less. Washing alone is quite effective, but the drying process finishes the elimination satisfactorily. Sun drying is particularly potent. The organisms present on worn shirts were those common to air, soil and skin. Micrococcus albus (Staphylococcus) and aureus were most frequently found; streptococci also were often present. The large number of hemolytic types observed suggests that under clothing should be changed frequently and laundered by a process likely to check their development.

Children Running on All Fours.—Hrdlicka reports thirty additional cases of children running on all fours, bringing the number of recorded cases up to forty-one. The children showing the peculiarity are, as a rule, healthy, strong and active, and, in general, above rather than below the average. There is no indication that the tendency is associated with any constitutional or acquired weakness or defect. The determining causes of the manifestation lie evidently in the child’s conformation at this period and in the desire of the healthy and strong child to get about more quickly than by crawling; the basic cause, however, is apparently of atavistic nature, the whole phenomenon being thus one of the order of functional reminiscences of an ancestral condition. Direct heredity plays, it seems, only a secondary role in these cases; but the subject needs a thorough further inquiry.

Digitized by LsOOQle
244

Some of the children that run on all fours show sooner or later other functional or somatic peculiarities that deserve scientific attention.

Shoulder Pains.—In four patients and in himself, Lieber-mann studied a peculiar condition of pain in the shoulder on certain motions. In all but one case a traumatic factor was recognizable in the etiology, of the nature of a forcible pull in the shoulder joint. His etiologic theory is that the delicate joint capsule became torn and that on this there followed hyperemia, “inflammation” and swelling, with tension of the muscles. Studies on the cadaver explained the pain, by showing that, on rotation, both tuberosities moved across the place which, in the patients, was painful and that, furthermore, on this motion the sensitive capsule was caught and pressed between the bony projection and the muscles. In the acute stage, treatment should be rest and salicylic preparations; in the subacute stage, light massage, and in old cases vigorous massage and physical exercises.

Energy Metabolism While Climbing.—For practical purposes, it is considered by Benedict and Parmenter that the average person expends the same amount of energy in walking up one flight of steps (fifteen steps, each 20 cm. high) as he does in walking on a level fifteen times the distance represented by the vertical height of such a staircase, or as he does in descending three such flights of steps. These comparisons may be helpful to the physician in prescribing exercise for patients and teachers.

Heliotherapy of Surgical Tuberculosis in the Lowlands.

Kisch holds that the superior advantages of the high Alps over the lowlands for heliotherapy have been greatly exaggerated. His results over a period of ten years in the vicinity of Berlin paralleled almost exactly those of Alpine institutions. Heliotherapy is an activation, rather than a specific therapy. Hence, the fact that the lowlands lack the continuous succession of sunny days experienced in the Alps is not a disadvantage, since uninterrupted treatment is not desirable. Kisch is convinced that the therapeutic value of heliotherapy is chiefly to be attributed to the the power of the sun’s rays to produce hyperemia. He describes the plan on which he has given heliotherapy successfully to patients with advanced tuberculosis. It has proved particularly valuable as a preoperative and postoperative treatment with thoracoplasty.

Heliotherapy in the High Alps.—The reaction of the organism, particularly the diseased organism, to the sun’s rays is not well understood. The most important part, Rollier states, is probably played by the light. The latter influences the fundamental processes of vegetative existence. The advantages of treatment in the Alps are discussed. He lays particular stress on the value of the complete sun bath. He never saw congestive phenomena, even in cases complicated by pulmonary tuberculosis. Lupus healed just as rapidly when the lesions themselves were
245

screened, while the body was exposed. The skin plays an enormous role in the curative process. He considers abundant pigmentation a sign of a good local and general reaction. The warm rays produce a superficial and a deep anesthesia so that the pain of tuberculous joints and muscle contractures disappear after a few weeks of treatment. Fungous processes in the joint either disappear or undergo fibrosis. Muscles regain their volume and and tone. The effect of the treatment on disappearance of tuberculous foci, formation of new joint surfaces and bone calcification are demonstrated in his reontgenograms. He believes that cold abscesses stimulate immune-body production and for that reason should be punctured as late as possible. Heliotherapy likewise exerts a splendid effect on certain nervous diseases, on anemia and rickets and particularly on certain common skin diseases such as acne, psoriasis and eczema.

A Higher Institution of Physical Education .—The courses of the Istituto superiore di educazione fisica in Rome, Italy have been begun. This new institution, which has the character of a university department, trains special personnel for the giving of instruction in schools of physical education. After two years' attendance the students will receive certificates entitling them to give instruction in physical education, and after a third year they will receive, if fully qualified, the doctor’s title. Two hundred students will be admitted to the courses, all of them boarding pupils. The institute, in addition to rooms devoted to theoretical instruction, will be provided with scientific collections and various rooms for the Greco-Roman combat, boxing, fencing, and the like. Near the institute there will be an athletic field of the dimensions prescribed for international contests. Temporarily, until the buildings and grounds are completed, the courses are being held in the Scuola militare di educazione fisica.

Copper in Nutrition.—The announcement made by a group of biochemical investigators from the University of Wisconsin at the meeting of the Federation of Biological Societies in Ann Arbor, Mich., a few weeks ago, regarding the function of copper as a supplement to iron for hemoglobin formation under certain conditions, has served to call attention anew to the desirability of intensive study of the action of small amounts of inorganic elements in nutrition. Our growing appreciation of the conspicuous part played by at most a few milligrams of iodine in the well being both of man and of the domestic animals has paved the way for a sympathetic attitude toward researches of this character. Nevertheless, it is important to sound a warning against unwarranted generalizations on the basis of the Wisconsin observations, for already copper is beginning to be lauded by uncritical and unscrupulous persons as a cure-all for the entire gamut of the widely different anemias.

The experimental facts are clear cut and convincing. When animals—in this research the rat was employed—are maintained on certain diets, notably an exclusive milk, or bread and milk.
246

regimen, they develop a progressive anemia which is commonly described as “nutritional anemia.” This is quite different from the depletion in blood cells that follows extensive hemorrhage. The experimental malady has afforded opportunity for the study of the possible remedial effects of various types of iron compounds, some of which have long been lauded as hematopoietic agents. There is no doubt that in some of the anemias the factor of iron starvation is operating. Various investigators have, indeed, reported regenerative and restorative effects from the addition of iron compounds to the otherwise unchanged rations; yet there were many failures. These unexpected and seemingly inexplicable outcomes led to attempts to differentiate between the possible efficiency of soluble versus insoluble iron or of organic versus inorganic iron regardless of the presumptive indications that the iron is more or less ionized in any event in the intestine, so that practically all the compounds may supply identical ferruginous derivatives to the circulation.

At this juncture Waddell, F.lvehjem, Steenbock and Hart demonstrated that highly purified inorganic iron salts (chloride, sulphate, acetate, citrate and phosphate) fail to increase materially the hemoglobin level in the animals experiencing nutritional anemia. However, many natural foods, such as liver, lettuce and corn, are remedial. Furthermore, the ashed residues from dried beef liver, dried lettuce and yellow corn, and acid extracts of these, are effective in curing the anemia produced in rats by a diet of cow’s whole milk. The most tenable explanation appeared to lie in the assumption that, in addition to iron, the ashes and extracts of the ashes of com, lettuce and beef liver contained some other substance or substances vitally concerned in the building of hemoglobin. What this substance was remained to be learned, but that it was inorganic in nature was definite. Necessarily such a substance would have to be active in exceedingly small amounts.

The subsequent story of how the missing essential was discovered to be copper, present in traces in many natural foods (and hence in their ash), furnishes the record of a distinguished research added to the many for which the Department of Agricultural Chemistry at the University of Wisconsin has already become celebrated. A trace of copper supplied along with iron salts eliminates the anemia hazard from the experimental diets already mentioned. Thus, copper appears to be a factor somehow in the building of hemoglobin. The Wisconsin biochemists point out that the occurrence of copper in plant and animal tissues has been known for some time, but no definite function has been assigned to it except in the case of some mollusks and Crustacea in which it is a constituent of hemocyanine, a respiratory pigment. Recently copper has been reported as occurring in blood both by McHargue and by Warburg and Krebs, the latter finding in the serum of human blood an amount approximating 0.0017 mg. of copper per cubic centimeter and an amount of about the same order associated with the serum proteins. We are remind-
247

ed, further, that from the limited data available in the literature one would judge that the new-born come into the world fairly well stocked with copper as well as iron, and during the suckling stage these reserves become exhausted, with final dependence for a supply placed on the food material ingested.

One is tempted to speculate on the mechanism through which copper functions; but such efforts would doubtless be as premature as the expectations that the new discovery has dispelled the problems of every type of anemia that confronts the clinician. The most that can be asserted with some confidence at this time is that we may need to reckon with traces of copper in some of the most fundamental reactions of the organism.

The Competitions and the Conflict Over Difference.—

Aside from the factors of physical constitution . . . any chronic disease which reduces the capacity of the individual to perform in any way, particularly (or, as we commonly say, physically), such as chronic heart disease, chronic tuberculosis, certain types of chronic thyroid disorders, the crippling effects of infantile paralysis, and so on through a long list of interfering, but not completely disabling chronic diseases—any of these is sufficient to produce a marked difference in the child in competition with its fellows. When the difference exists, there usually develops some emotional conflict and then some type of disturbance in behavior or adjustment. These cases are most difficult indeed in

treatment--- Let me summarize, then, by saying that differences,

real or imagined, which the individual sees or feels between himself and his own ideals or what he conceives to be the ideal of the group, occurring in any aspect of physical, mental or social life, may and do produce profound emotional conflicts and all the various types of disturbing behavior, the latter representing an attempt at compensation such that the individual will have a satisfied ego and a feeling of security in the group.—Lowrey, L.

G.: Competitions and the Conflict over Difference, Merit. Hyg., April, 1928.

Noise a Health Problem.—Residents of a small city in New York recently had a motorist arrested for operating his boat on Long Island Sound without a muffler. The case indicates a reaction against useless noise. The human ear is adjusted to record musical tones that are produced by vibrations ranging from sixteen to about 48,000 vibrations per second. The perception of sound comes about after many small parts of our anatomy have been affected. Helmholtz found that the stapes, for example, may be moved as much as one-eighteenth to one-fourteenth millimeter by sound waves. It may be inferred, therefore, that in the large centers of population our hearing apparatus is being almost constantly violently disturbed. Many drivers of motors seem to delight in open exhausts, or unusual horns. Motors, motors everywhere, on land and sea and air! In addition to this noisy factor in modem life there are many others, the sum of which makes bedlam. Americans have accustomed themselves

Digitized by

Google
248

to living amidst noise. Health departments have paid little tion to the effects of noise on public health. The subject becoming more needful of scientific study every day.

Relation of Explosive Symptoms in Children to Faint and Headache in Parents.—The frequency of periodic heads in groups of apparently normal women in five communities, cording to Levy and Patrick, was as high as 40.2 per cent, headaches likely were largely migraine. Classified on the of time taken out of work, however, the majority of peric headaches caused slight incapacity. The frequency of fainting 1 apparently normal women was 28 per cent. Parents who faint or who had periodic headaches were more likely to have chile who had infantile convulsions, temper with head-banging breath-holding, and other recurrent attacks, especially spells vomiting and fainting. Parents who fainted were more likely to have such children than parents who had periodic headachf but remained free from fainting. Parents who had frequent periodic headaches were more likely to have such children than those whose headaches were infrequent. The same was true of fainting. Conversely, children who had “explosive symptoms” were more likely to have parents who fainted and had periodic headaches than children wno were free from such symptoms. The “explosive symptoms”—infantile convulsions, temper with breath-holding and temper with head-banging—were in correlation with each other and with fainting and periodic headache in the parents.

Disciplinary Cases Before England’s Medical Council.—

There were sixteen disciplinary cases before the summer session of the General Medical Council of England. The case of greatest public interest was that of Dr. Dorothy C. Logan who, some months ago, claimed to have swum across the English channel. The claim was not true and Dr. Logan was fined $100 for making certain false statemtnts in a statutory declaration, Oct. 12, 1927. The council considered the mitigating circumstances. Dr. Logan said that her object was to bring home to the public by the eventual disclosure the need for more adequate supervision of swimming; that the money offered as a prize never really came into her possession, and that she did not know that a “mere ordinary type written document in a newspapaer office, bearing no stamps or other signs, could be a legal document.” The council deliberated fifty minutes. The president said that the conviction recorded against Dr. Logan had been proved to their satisfaction and was of a serious character. The conclusion was that the punishment to which she had already been subjected may have enabled her to realize more fully her responsibilities and that she would not again attest either in a so-called legal document or otherwise anything which she knew to be untrue. The council decided not to erase her name from the medical register. Among the others whose cases came up at thie session, however, were three practitioners whose names were erased.

Digitized by L.ooQle