MIND AND BODY

Vol. 22.	JANUARY,	1916.	No.	245

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah.

EMIL RATH. Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L, SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil , Pa All Business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., Room 40, Hathaway Bldg., Milwaukee. Entered at lhe Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS

NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS.

On Saturday evening, December 4th, the senior class of the New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics gave their annual Christmas dance in Jahn gymnasium. Decorations were in yellow and white and Christmas greens. Patrons and patronesses: Dr. and Mrs. E. H. Arnold, Miss S. M. Haupt, Dr. Frances W. Boynton, Dr. and Mrs. J. F. Rogers, Mr. and Mrs. F. E. Foertsch.

The Dramatic Society of the New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics presented Sheridan's comedy, “The Rivals,” in Jahn gymnasium on Saturday evening, December nth. The play was well attended and was the most creditable work ever given by the school. *

Leona V. Webster.

SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, STATE NORMAL SCHOOL,

LA CROSSE, WISCONSIN.

The football season closed on Thanksgiving when the Minnesota Aggies were defeated by a score of 34 to o. The season may be thought of as a successful one for the team won 5 of 7 games. Incidentally they lost both games to championship teams; River Falls winning the Wisconsin state title and the Dubuque College team proved to be champions of the Hawkeye Conference.

At a meeting of the Wisconsin Physical Education Society, held at Milwaukee last month, Dr. Carl B. Sputh was elected president and Mr. Gustav Heineman, also of the School of Physical Education, was elected secretary.

During the month the school was honored by having as its guest Mr. George Brosius of Milwaukee. Mr. Brosius has been in the work since 1865. He is eighty years of age and is still strong

Digitized by CaOOQle
906

and healthy. Mr. Brosius has been the teacher of a great many of the leading* men in the physical education field in the country.

The basketball team started on its tour of four states Dec. 13th, expecting to wind up Dec. 23rd. The girls’ basketball tournament, with ten teams in the race was won by the Physical Education Juniors. Men’s class basketball is already started with six strong teams in the field.

The football team was entertained by the Physical Education Club at a party and dance. On Dec. 1st Pres. Cotton, Dr. Sputh, coach of the football team, and Mr. Moore, assistant coach, gave a dinner and banquet to the football squad. Speeches by Pres. Cotton, Dr. Sputh, Mr. Moore, Captain Strum and Captain-elect Fein-berg, brought to a close a most enjoyable and successful football season.

Arthur Strum, Recorder.

MILITARY DRILL IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS.*

On November 3d, Dr. D. A. Sargent presented the following epitome of his views on the introduction of military drill in the Schools, before the Special State Board of Military Preparedness of Massachusetts:

This is a question which has come before the State and country before, and is the usual result of a wave of popular concern for our military condition and state of preparedness for war such as has swept over the country every ten or twenty years.

I.	Let us consider first what are the fundamental requirements of modern war as regards the men and women of a belligerent country:

(a)	Health and vigor of its people, and the knowledge of how to maintain it under both favorable and adverse circumstances.

(b)	Mental acumen and bodily and mental control under trying circumstances.

(c)	A courageous and generous spirit that will fight for what it believes is right for all it is worth.

II.	How near do we come in this country to fulfilling these conditions ?

(a)	The most of our children are not trained and developed physically as they should be, while a few are overtrained and enjoy the special attention of instructors and the use of facilities barred to the many.

(b)	Mental acumen as regards physical activities is not developed as it should be for lack of the opportunity for its expression.

(c)	The moral qualities of courage, co-operation and self-sac-

* Extract from The Sargent Quarterly of December, 1915.

Digitized by 0.ooQle
907

rifice and the fighting spirit, in its broadest and best sense, are not develped as they should be for lack of wholesome and properly directed means for their expression, except again in the case of the favored few.

III.	Does military drill in the schools develop these qualities in youth which prepare a nation for the struggles of war, to say nothing of those of peace? No, because:

1.	It is not an adequate means for physical training, being not only very limited in its activities, but actually harmful in its effect on boys less than eighteen or twenty years of age. The musket is a one-sided implement, too heavy for young boys and inefficient and harmful for older boys. Sir William Aitkin, Professor of Pathology in the Army Medical School of England, in his book ‘The Growth of the Recruit and the Young Soldier” says that boys given military training at eighteen make soldiers who are less robust and efficient than men with whom this training was deferred a few years, remaining in civil life until after their bones, heart, lungs, liver, etc., were more matured and developed. Recruits of eighteen show physical immaturity which results only too frequently in their ending in the hospital or being discharged as invalids. Recruits of eighteen require two years’ special training before they are fit for military training.

2.	It does not offer sufficient opportunity for the development of the individual’s powers of muscular and mental coordination and the exercise of judgment under unusual and trying circumstances.

3.	It does not offer sufficient opportunity for struggle, which requires and developes a spirit of co-operation and self-sacrifice, loyalty and a strong will.

4.	The most military nations in the world do not have military drill in their schools, but give military instructions and training only after the boys have reached eighteen or twenty years, and have received years of physical training as a part of their schooling.

5.	The same qualities that are of most value for war are of most value in peace. Military drill also is inadequate as a preparation for the struggles of peace, such as are necessary to sustain the place of the individual or nation in the pursuit of science, politics, commerce, etc.

6.	Military drill in the schools cannot teach boys the real art of war, since they are too young to handle the real weapons and undergo the vigors of adequate instruction. Hence it is apt to foster a bombastic military spirit of “tin-soldierism” and a false sense of patriotism which does not appreciate the seriousness of war nor the glories of the struggles of peace.

IV.	A rational system of physical training in the schools and colleges would be of the greatest value in preparing the youth of the country—both boys and girls—for the struggles of both war and peace; because:

Digitized by CjOOQle
908

1.	The development and functioning of both the mental and moral attributes is dependent upon and limited by the health and vigor of the individual.

2.	Physical training in the schools would be training at the formative and most critical period of life, just when it is most needed and able to produce the best and most lasting results.

3.	By this means not only would the stature be improved in size and carriage, but all the vital organs—heart, lungs, liver, etc.— would be developed and brought into condition to undergo the vigors of real military training in camp or barracks if necessary.

4.	Furthermore, the boys and girls would learn how to take care of themselves under adverse circumstances and apply the laws of hygiene, instruction in which is, of course, an important part of any adequate system of physical training.

5.	An adequate system of physical training includes athletic sports and games, and general gymnastics under competent direction. In these activities—and in this way only—is an opportunity offered for the exercise of the same physical, mental, and moral qualities which are of fundamental importance in war.’ I refer to presence of mind, courage, self-sacrifice, and the desire to struggle for a cause which is believed to be right. Physiologists have recently shown that the whole bodily tone and functions are different according as the individual’s emotions are those of quiet rest or active struggle. To exercise these various functions in preparation for the struggles of war or peace, contests must be provided. Hence we have a new reason for promoting the plays and games of the playground, school yard, and athletic field.

6.	The countries whose armies in this war are found best prepared do not give military drill in their schools. On the contrary, they give abundant instruction in physical training. As illustrating^ the interest in physical training, independent of the schools, in Germany alone, in 1909, in 7174 cities and towns there were 8607 gymnastic societies with a total membership of 902,910, and an active membership of 416,861, an active junior membership of 150,332 and an active female membership of 49,627. On January 1, 1914, the total membership was 1,486,320. It is easy to see at what advantage the German military authorities worked with such a nucleus in addition to their regular army. On the other hand, once England’s small army of regular troops—than whom there are none finer in the world—had gone to the front, she.found herself faced with the herculean task of training a citizen army. She has been at this for over a year and is still at it, trying to do in a few months what Germany and France and Switzerland have taken years of gradual and consistent training to accomplish.

CONCLUSION.

V.	Upon the foundation of a healthy and vigorous youth can

Digitized by Google
909

be laid the technical training for peace or war which is necessary for the successful nation of today. Let abundant instruction in military science be given in our colleges, technical schools, military camps, forts, etc., to all who are otherwise qualified and willing to undertake the responsibility of being officers; and provide the means for developing and selecting regular army officers capable of commanding such enormous numbers of troops as enter into modern warfare. Further provide—either in co-operation with or entirely under the Federal Government—training camps for citizen soldiers, but do not attempt to make a soldier out of an undeveloped boy. For instruction in camp life, first aid, signaling, and the many valuable, but easily forgotten things to be known by a good soldier, why not promote the Boy Scout Movement, a movement started by an experienced soldier who knew England’s needs in the Boer War?

In the summer of 1908 I visited Frankfort, Germany, and saw

25,000	men, women and children doing mass exercises in the field, before perhaps an equal number on the benches.

I went back to London a week later and saw the close of the Olympic games, at which there were 25 men performing on the track and field and perhaps 100,000 spectators on the benches.

The former represents the survival of the Greek type, the latter the decadent Roman period. One was educational, the other was gladitorial and spectacular.

The scene at Frankfort shows us very plainly why Germany has so many men prepared for service, and the scene at London shows us why England has some million or more men at the training camps which she is trying to get into condition.

What America most needs is some way of giving those physical advantages to the masses which she now lavishes on the favored few —some way of providing more athletic students and fewer student athletes, some way of providing more soldierly schoolboys instead of schoolboy soldiers.

A team of American swimming champions will visit Honolulu this winter to compete in the international water carnival held annually under the auspices of the Hawaiian division of the association, has already booked several title and record holders for the big meet and is confident of adding other famous names to the list.

Among those who have given assurance that they will make the long trip are Arthur Taithel, Illinois A. C., the sprinter who tied the peerless Duke Kakanamoku at 100 yards last summer ; Perry Mc-Gillivrav, Illinois A. C., holder of the national 220-yard championship, and Ludy Langer, Los Angeles A. C., world’s recordist at 440 and 500 yards.

The meet promises to write history, for the Hawaiian contingent, headed by Kakanamoku, is unusually strong this season, and it is expected that the foremost watermen of Australia will also be on hand.

Digitized by 0.ooQle
910

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

By H. ARMIN 8TECHER,.University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

CIRCLE PINS.

By WILLIAM A. STECHER.

Circle-pins is a game of skill that appeals to older boys and girls as well as to adults. It can be played either indoor or outdoor, and needs little space. The equipment consists of five bowling pins (blocks of wood will answer the same purpose), and a small bowling ball (a seventeen inch indoor baseball or a square piece of wood will answer for this purpose). The five pins are arranged as per diagram on a board-five feet square. The ball is fastened to a strong cord and is suspended from the ceiling or a cross piece eight to ten feet high directly above the center pin. The lower edge of the ball is about one inch above the board.

The object of the game is to swing the ball so as to knock down one or more pins. The player takes his stand at a mark from six to ten feet from the pin board. The ball may be swung either forward and backward, or the player may swing it in an oval. The ball may pass over the board only during one swing; i. e., either forward and backward, or in a circular swing. If during this swing one pin is knocked down this counts one point for the player. One point is scored for each pin that is knocked down either by being struck by the ball or by another pin. If only the center pin is knocked down this counts five points. If only the four outer pins are knocked down this counts ten points. Fifty points is a game. If played as a team game the total number of points to be scored is equal to the number of team members multiplied by fifty.

SOCIAL GROUP ATHLETIC CONTEST*

By JOHN BROWN, JR., M. D.

Many of our readers will surely welcome the ideas presented in this article. Our athletic competitions have become too specialized, they are for the few, for the well-prepared. We have here a suggestion of how to socialize such competition. A wide-awake teacher will see dozens of possibilities arising from the suggestions contained in this article.

* Reprinted by permission from “Physical Training.”

Digitized by LaOOQle
911

The following is a sugeestive outline of a type of interesting competition which was used at the Canadian Summer School in place of the ordinary form of athletic Field Day, and in the County Work Institute at Silver Bay this year.

The whole scheme is worked out on the principle of group, rather than individual competition and everybody, rather than a few taking part. The entire school or institute was diviled into an even number of teams with approximately the same number of individuals on each team, including ladies. The following events were used:	Ball	pitching;	Ball passing; Relay pursuit base running;

Relay shot put; Relay Standing Broad Jump; Running High Jump; Nail Driving Contest for Ladies; Sewing on button relay for partners; Eat cracker and whistle contest for partners.

Ball Pitching:	A	wooden frame seventeen (17) inches wide

was erected over home plate, the lower cross piece at knee height and the upper cross piece at shoulder height. Every member of each team was allowed three under arm throws with a playground ball from the pitcher’s box. Each ball going through the frame represented a strike and counted one point for the team. The object is to score as many strikes as possible.

Ball Passing:	Each	team in turn took the regular positions

—the positions being indicated by the bases or stakes—in the ball field and the ball was thrown from one player to another in the following order; From pitcher to catcher, first base, second base, third base, left s. s., left field, center field, right field, right s. s., pitcher. The timer counted aloud the seconds transpiring from the signal “go” until the ball reached the pitcher the second time. The players must be in their positions when the ball is thrown to them. If a player misses the ball, the other players mav assist in returning the ball to the one who is to throw it next. The object is to pass the ball in the shortest possible time.

Relay Pursuit Base Running:	Two	teams	compete	against

each other and must time simultaneously. One team starts and finishes at home base and the other at second base. Each runner makes a complete circuit of the diamond, touching all bases. The second runner stands on the starting base until the ball is handed (not passed or thrown) by the first runner and so on until the runners have taken up the relay. The time of both teams is taken separately and compared with the time made by the other teams later.

Note:	When	ladies	compete, they should run first, each lady

running but one base, after which the men take up the relay from the base where the last lady finishes.

Relay Shot Put:	Depending upon the number of shots avail-

able, a number of teams may compete at the same time. The shot is put from a stride position without a turn. The forward foot is placed so that the toe is just touching the mark. The rear foot must
912

not be brought in front of the forward foot in making the put. The second man places his forward foot so that his toe is at the nearest mark made by the shot when put by the first man and so on until all members of the team have had their turn. The distance covered by the combined puts of all on the team is measured and compared with that made by the other teams. Only one trial is allowed. Two* fouls constitute a trial.

Note:	The	interest may be increased by the second group of

teams beginning where the preceding teams finished and putting the shot in the opposite direction in an endeavor to carry it back beyond the point where the other teams started.

Relay Standing Broad JumpAll teams stand in line behind their first competitor, toeing a line. On the signal, the first competitor of each team jumps and then retires to the back of the team. The second competitor on each team places his foot so that his heels are parallel with the nearest mark made by the preceding jumper and on a given signal, all the second men jump together and then retire to the back of the team. This is continued until all individuals on the different teams have jumped. The total distance from the starting point to the mark made by the last jumper is measured and constitutes the record for each team.

Running High Jump:	A	number	of	sets of standards should

be used. Jumping begins at two feet, eight inches. Only one trial allowed at each height. Two balks constitute one trial. Bar raised four inches at a time. Each man is credited with points corresponding to the number of inches which he jumps above two feet, 8 inches. Team score is the total points of the members on the team.

Nail Driving Contest for Ladies:	An	equal	number of ladies

on each team. Each lady drives one four-inch wire nail into a block of wood until the head of the nail is level with the surface. The number of strikes required are counted. Team using least number of strokes, wins. Hammers, nails and wood should all be the same, otherwise the different members of the teams, rotate in the use of the hammers and blocks of wood.

Sewing on Button Relay for Partners:	One	couple represents

each team. Ladies stand in line, facing partners on line fifty feet distant. Each lady has a needle and thread. Each man has a piece of cloth and a four-hole button, each the same size and shape. On signal, ladies thread the needle as they walk or run toward partner. When the needle is threaded, the partner takes it and knots the end of the thread. He then sews the button on the cloth so that the thread passes at least once through each hole in the button and then twice around the button and twice through the cloth on the under side and is then broken off. Not until this is completed can the couple arm in arm, run to the point from which the lady started. Couple returning first wins.

Digitized by CjOOQle
913

Eat Cracker and Whistle Contest for Partners:	One	couple

represents each team. Ladies stand in line, facing partners on line fifty feet distant. Each lady has a slip of paper and pencil. Each man has a sealed envelope containing a cracker and a slip of paper on which is written the name of a well known song. On the signal, the men open the envelopes and begin to eat the cracker at the same time reading the name of the song on their slips. Each man then gives the slip to a judge standing behind him. He then runs to his partner and when he has eaten the cracker, he whistles the tune of the song on his slip. His partner, as soon as she can recognize the tune, writes the name on her slip of paper and together the couple return and give the paper to the judge. The couple returning first with the correct name properly written on their slip, wins.

Points are given to each team in each event in the reverse order to that in which they finish. For instance if there are six teams in the ball pitching contest, the team which scores the highest number of strikes is given six points; the second team, five points; third team, four points; fourth team, three points; fifth team, two points and sixth team, one point.

To determine the final standing of the teams, the number of points won by each team in the different events is totaled and the team scoring the highest number of points wins.

To those who are familiar with the highly specialized type of individualistic competition, the advantages of this form of social group contests, are apparent. The events can be quickly conducted; little time is lost in timing and measuring and few officials are required. The events can be adapted to suit the number, age, and sex of those participating, who in the majority of cases, will exceed the number of spectators. *

*

Digitized by Google
914

DUMBBELL EXERCISES.

As used by the senior men at the Pacific District Turnfest, July 25-26, 1915, San Francisco, Cal. Exercises are done in 4-4 time, and are to be carried out twice left and right in alternation. Between the groups there is a pause of 32 counts.

group 1.

EXERCISE I.

1- 4 Step left forward, and raise bells forward—Fig. 1.

5- 8 Bend left knee, and move bells sideward—Fig. 2.

Fig. 1

Fig. 2.

9-12 As 1-4.

13-16 Fundamental position.

17-32 Repeat right.

33-64 Repeat entirely.

EXERCISE 11.

1- 4 Stride left sideward and bend arms for thrust—Fig. 3. 5-8	%. turn left (on balls of feet) bend left knee and thrust left

arm obliquely fore-upward, right opposite—Fig. 4.

9-12 As 1-4.

13-16 Return to fundamental position.

17-32 Repeat right.

33-64 Repeat entirely.

Digitized by
EXERCISE III.

2-	4 Stride left backward and swing bells fore-upward—Fie. 5.

5- 8 H turn left (on balls of feet), bend right knee, and arms lowered obliquely side-downward, palms up—Fig. 6.

Fig. 5.

Fig. 6.
916

9-12 As 1-4.

13-16 Return to fundamental position.

17-32 Repeat right,

33-64 Repeat entirely.

EXERCISE IV.

1- 4 With % turn left, stride left forward, and swing bells, left obliquely fore-upward, right opposite—Fig. 7.

5- 8 Kneel right, and bend left arm behind back, right arm over head—Fig. 8.

9-12 As 1-4.

13-16 Return to fundamental position.

17-32 Repeat right.

33-64 Repeat entirely.

Fig. 7.	Fig. 8.

GROUP II.

EXERCISE I.	*

1-4 Lunge left forward and raise bells sideward—Fig. 9.

5- 8 Lower trunk forward, and move bells downward—Fig. 10. 9-12 As 1-4.

13-16 Return to fundamental position.

17-32 Repeat right.

33-64 Repeat entirely.

EXERCISE II.

I- 4 Fall to squat-stand, bells on floor, between knees—Fig. 11.

5- 8 Straighten knees, lunee left sideward, left arm obliquely side-upward, right opposite—Fig. 12.

Digitized by CjOOQle
Fig. 9.	Fig.	10.

9-12 As 1-4.

13-16 Return to fundamental position.

17-32 Repeat right.

33-64 Repeat entirely.

Figr. 11.

Fig. 12.

Digitized by

Goog
Fig. 1.1.	Fig.	14.

EXERCISE III.

i- 4 Lunge left backward, and bend arms for strike over shoulders—Fig. 13.

5- 8 Kneel left and swing arms through the forward position, and backward—Fig. 14.

Fig. 15.	Fig.	16.

' gitized by Google
919

9-12 As 1-4.

13-16 Return to fundamental position.

17-32 Repeat right.

33-64 Repeat entirely.

EXERCISE IV.

1- 4 Face half left, lunge forward and swing bells obliquely fore-upward or upward—Fig. 15.

5- 8 Lower trunk forward, placing the left foot farther back, and place the bells on the floor in the vertical position—Fig. 16. 9-12 As 1-4.

13-16 Return to fundamental position.

17-32 Repeat right.

33-64 Repeat entirely.

WAND EXERCISES.

By KATHERINE WILLIS, Baltimore, Md.

March Militaire by Franz Schubert; march time.

PART I.

1.	Foot placing left forward, raise wand forward.......... 1—	2

2.	Foot placing left backward, raise wand upward.......... 3—	4

3.	Position one........................................... 5—	6

4.	Fundamental position................................... 7—	8

Repeat 3 times right, left, right. Two measures.

I.. Foot placing left sideward, raise wand left sideward... 1—	2

2.	Cross touchstep left, raise wand upward................ 3—	4

3	and 4.	Return positions........................ 5—	6	7— 8

Repeat 3 times. Two measures.

1.	Foot placing left backward, raise wand upward.......... 1—	2

2.	Foot placing left forward, wand behind shoulder........ 3—	4

3	and 4.	Return positions........................ 5—	6	7— 8

Repeat 3 times. Two measures.

March time—Intermediate Exercise.

1.	Arms flexed with wand	on	chest...................... 1—	2

2.	Arms upward with trunk	bend backward................... 3—	4

3.	First position........................................ 5—	6

4.	Fundamental position.................................. 7—	8

Repeat 3 times right, left, right. Two measures.

PART 11.

1.	Foot placing left forward, raise wand forward........... 1—	2

2.	Lunge left forward, raise wand upward.................. 3—	4

3 and 4. Return positions............................ 5— 6 7— 8

Repeat 3 times. Two measures.

1.	Foot placing left sideward, raise wand left	sideward.... 1—	2

2.	Lunge left sideward, raise wand upward................. 3—	4

Digitized by CjOOQle
920

5—6 7—8

3 and 4. Return positions............

Repeat 3 times. Two measures.

1. Foot placing left backward, arms flexed, wand on chest..... 1— 2

2. Lunge left backward, arms flexed, wand behind shoulders.. 3— 4

3	and	4.	Return	positions........................ 5—	6	7—	8

Repeat 3 times. Two measures.

March time—Intermediate Exercise.

1.	Arms flexed, wand behind shoulders..................... 1—	2

2.	Lower trunk forward, wand lowered to the	floor........ 3—	4

3	and	4.	Return	positions........................ 5—	6	7—	8

Repeat 3 times. Two measures.

PART III.

1.	Lunge left forward, raise wand upward.................. 1—	2

2.	Lower trunk forward, lower wand to floor.............. 3—	4

3	and	4.	Return	positions........................ 5—	6	7—	8

Repeat 3 times. Two measures.

1. Lunge left sideward, raise wand upward................. 1— 2

2. Bend left sideward..................................... 3— 4

3	and	4.	Return	positions........................ 5—	6	7—	8

Repeat 3 times. Two measures.

1.	Lunge left backward, wand behind shoulders............. 1—	2

2.	Bend trunk backward and raise wand upward............. 3—	4

3	and	4.	Return	positions.......................... 5—	6	7—	8

Repeat 3 times. Two measures.

March time—Intermediate Exercise.

1.	Arms flexed with wand on chest........................... 1—	2

2.	Arms upward with trunk bend backward.................. 3—	4

3.	First position........................................ 5—	6

4.	Fundamental position.................................. 7—	8

Repeat 3 times. Two measures.

CHANGES IN BASKET BALL STYLE OF PLAY.

By E. C. DELAPORTE, Chicago, 111.

I think it will be of interest to readers of Mind and Body and to those who are interested in the game of basketball to know that the “Chicago High School” Basketball League has decided to try a new method of play for this season. At a meeting of the Board of Control it was voted to accept the changes suggested in the new rules for this year and further to allow a player to re-enter the game once after being taken out, except when he has been disqualified by the referee. The idea is to lessen the strain upon the boys and to allow more students to take part in the game. I have already tried out this plan and find it a success; the boys are in excellent condition after the game now, whereas before, it was a common occurrence to see them exhausted. There is no slowing up of the game and I be-

Digitized by
921

lieve it will be free from fouls. A player begins to commit fouls the moment he becomes tired and can not . keep up to his opponent, this is the point where he should be taken out of the game.

I think this method of play will receive the support of all physical educators and those who have the interest of the boys at heart. It has been said of this plan that the coach enters largely in the game by way of re-substitution, he can coach his players on the side lines and send them back into the game. My answer to this is that all coaches have the same privilege and that it is better to safe-guard the boy at this age, than it is to worry about which coach knows, the most. It is the business of every coach to perfect himself in all details of the game so that he may never be at a disadvantage. Boys in all branches of athletics need a guiding hand and they need it often. When a boy commits a glaring foul or shows he is exhausted or makes a bad misplay, a coach ought to remove him immediately, show him his error and if he is exhausted allow him to rest up and I think in time all will be in favor of these changes, which are as follows:

1.	The game to consist of 4 quarters of 7 minutes each, with a rest of 2 minutes between the first and second, and third, and fourth quarters, during which time players shall not leave the floor nor change goals. A rest of not less than 10 minutes shall be allowed between the halves.

2.	At the beginning of each quarter the ball shall be tossed up in the center circle.

3.	Players taken out of the game may once re-enter the game at the beginning of any subsequent quarter.

We use intercollegiate rules for all of our games with these exceptions.

A MODEL HIGH SCHOOL.

By A. E. KINDERVATER, Supervisor of Physical Training, Public Schools of , St. Louis. Missouri.

With the beginning of the present school year in September, the sixth high school, “The Grover Cleveland,” was opened and added to the system of public schools in St. Louis. The school building, covering 143,620 feet of ground is located in the extreme southern end of the city and is a most necessary and welcome addition to the system in that part of St. Louis.

The architectural style of the building is plain “Tudor English/’ The school is built of red brick trimmed with cut stone, and has accommodations for 1800 pupils. It is heated by a four-boiler heating plant, has the most modern air washing and ventilating devices, and an elaborate electric light and power station. It contains sixty-five class-rooms, one auditorium, seating 1,900 people, with a balcony

Digitized by CjOOQle
922

clear of all obstructions, a spacious reference library and reading room, a music auditorium, also useful as a lantern and lecture room, four art rooms with special top light, two large rooms equipped with all modern appliances for mechanical drawing, complete laboratories for physiology, chemistry, physics, botany and physiography, machine shop, carpenter shop, foundry, a complete equipment for all branches of domestic science, as well as one for a banking and commercial course, a kitchen, cold storage rooms and a lunch hall that can accommodate 640 pupils at one time. A warm lunch is served here daily at cost price under the management of the school board.

For the physical training of the pupils, there are on the main floor, in direct connection with the auditorium, three gymnasiums, each 40 x 80 feet and 30 feet high, two of them covered with a glass roof; all three being free of all obstructions. With dressing rooms, showers and the physical director’s office in direct connection with each gymnasium, conditions are as near ideal as any high school can expect to have. The following illustrations will bear out the above statement.

Picture number one shows the stage of the auditorium and the gymnasium in direct connection therewith. Gymnasium number one is used as a supplementary gymnasium. It also is used for all public demonstrations of high school activities. A massive steel curtain, ten tons in weight and operated by hydraulic power, separates the front part of this space (i. e., the stage) from the gymnasium proper when the gymnasium is used for physical training purposes. With this curtain up we have a stage 50 x 80 feet, free

Picture No. 1. Stage Gymnasium.

Digitized by CjOOQle
9*23

of all obstructions, ready for any demonstration of high school activities, whether physical, musical, theatrical, or social, with a seating capacity for 19CO people directly in front of the stage. The equipment of this so-called “Stage Gymnasium” consists of 12 stall bars placed against the rear wall, 2 removable and adjustable swinging saddle booms, 6 pairs of swinging climbing poles and six pairs of swinging rings attached to a cross-bar which is fastened to the floor and held rigid with six steel ropes. The cross-bar with the attached apparatus is hoisted up* out of sight by a winch and chain when not in use. In this “Stage Gymnasium” there is also a regulation size basketball court for interscholastic games. Directly in rear of and at right angles to the “Stage Gymnasium” we find the two other gymnasiums and dressing rooms used for the regular daily lessons. The one on the left is equipped for and used by the girls, the one on the right by the boys. A folding door partition between the posts supporting the roof separates the two gymnasiums, but is not shown on the picture as it is to be installed in the near future. A balcony on the long side of each gymnasium seats 235 people. These are used for visitors wishing to see the pupils at work. As the folding door partition permits the two gymnasiums to be turned into one large hall with a floor space of 80 x 80, this hall will be especially useful for gymnastic exhibitions, indoor athletic meets, and after-school social purposes.

Picture No. 2.—Girls’ Gymnasium.

Digitized by Google
924

THE EQUIPMENT OF THE GIRLS' GYMNASIUM.

The equipment of the girls' gymnasium, partly seen on picture number 2, consists of four adjustable ladders, 2 eight-rope circle swings, 12 swinging climbing poles, 6 pairs of adjustable swinging rings, 4 climbing ropes and 4 rope ladders, 2 removable saddle booms and 10 stall bars. Besides these apparatus there is an ample supply of balance boards, Indian clubs, wands, grace hoops, skipping reeds, basket balls, bats and bases for class work and play. A large net lowered in the center of the gymnasium divides the room in two play fields for various ball games, the four basket ball goals and back-stops enabling four teams to practice basketball at the same time. All hanging apparatus can be hoisted out of the way. The girls' dressing rooms, situated under the balcony, contain 40 separate cabinets. At the east end of this dressing room is the office of the physical director, equipped with all necessary anthropometric instruments and material for first aid. This office is so located that a plain view can be had of both gymnasiums and dressing rooms.

Picture No. 3.—Boys' Gymnasium.

THE EQUIPMENT OF THE BOYS" GYMNASIUM.

The equipment of the boys’ gymnasium, partly shown on picture number three, consists of the same number of adjustable and hanging apparatus as that of the girls. In addition thereto, there are 6 adjustable and removable horizontal bars, which are raised and fold against the wall when not in use, 6 adjustable and re-

Digitized by G.ooQle
925

movable parallel bars, 6 horses, 6 bucks, 6 combination intercostal and chest weight machines, 2 punching bag outfits, 2 pairs of jumping standards, 2 spring boards, indoor pole vaulting boards, spruce and bamboo vaulting poles, indoor shots, and all the necessary felt mats for apparatus work and jumping. Hand apparatus for the boys consists of Indian clubs, iron dumb-bells and steel wands. For play purposes, basket balls, gas balls and indoor baseballs are supplied. Each gymnasium is provided with a piano. All hand and play apparatus in both gymnasiums is stored in steel lockers. The boys’ dressing room, located under the balcony of their gymnasium, contains 4 showers, a sufficient number of steel lockers to accommodate all boys of a gymnasium class, and a slipper case for each class. Each slipper case contains 42 pigeon holes numbered from 1 to 42. Each class member received a number according to his place in line; and the slippers are kept in this case under lock and key, and the control of the physical director from one lesson to the other. The office of the physical director and its equipment is the best exact counterpart of that on the girls’ side. The equipment of all three gymnasiums was furnished by the Medart Manufacturing Company of St. Louis.

Besides the three gymnasiums, this high school is also provided with a swimming pool 20 x 40 ft. on the floor below, the room having separate dressing rooms and showers for both sexes. One day per week is set aside for each sex for tfye use of the pool under the supervision of the respective nhvsical director, who gives instruction in swimming as much as his or her time will permit.

For the outdoor physical activities, a piece of around, 218,485 sq. ft. in size, directly in front of the school, is provided where in the near future a stadium seating 6,000 oeople, a quarter-mile running track, a football field, baseball diamond, jumping pits, tennis courts, etc., are to be added. Here the outdoor interscholastic tournaments, games, high and grade school field days of the future will be held. Illustrations and description of this athletic field will be given to the readers of “Mind and Body” in due time.

BOOK REVIEW.

“Manual of Exercises in Free Gymnastics and Tactics” by E.

H.	Arnold, M. D., Director of the New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics. 42 pages, 6 by 9 inches. Published by the author.

This is the sixth edition of Dr. Arnold’s well known booklet. In the preface we read that “this edition presents only slight alterations in the exercises. The nomenclature has been revised and to the lessons for each grade have been appended the names of several folk dances appropriate for that grade.”

Digitized by 0.ooQle
926

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

By D. M. P. KROQH, M. D., Cleveland 8chool, Newark, N. J.

THE VALUE OF TUBERCULIN IN THE TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOSIS.

By .TAMES ALEX. MILLER. M. D.

When Robert Koch in 1882 announced the discovery of the tubercle bacillus as the germ cause of tuberculosis, hopes for a method of successfully coping with the germ were immediately aroused. When eight years later this same scientist announced that he had discovered in tuberculin an agent which, when injected into animals or human beings with tuberculosis, appeared to have distinct curative value, all the world was immediately aroused to a high pitch of excitement. A sure cure for tuberculosis was confidently hoped for and when, in a comparatively short time experiments demonstrated that tuberculin was not such a cure, the reaction was as intense as was the previous enthusiasm.

In those days tuberculin was given in large doses, and it was easy to prove that in many cases great harm was done. The good effects reported were less striking and for many years lost sight of.

A few patient investigators, notablv in this country Dr. Trudeau of Saranac Lake, continued to experiment with tuberculin in the laboratory and in the clinic until a method was devised very different from the original one suggested, by the use of which no harm could result and considerable benefit in certain types of cases was observed.

Encouraged by these observations, tuberculin gradually became more widely used in small doses, until in the last decade it has reestablished itself as an important aid in the treatment of tuberculosis.

Tuberculin, as originally prepared bv Koch, is a preparation of glycerine broth cultures, in which the tubercle bacilli has grown for several weeks, and then the germs are removed by heat and filtration. This preparation contains some of the poisonous products excreted during the growth of the germs and also small particles of the broken up bodies of the dead bacilli themselves. These small particles probably represent the active principle in the tuberculin.

There are many other preparations of tuberculin; one in particular worth mentioning is prepared by grinding up the particles of tubercle bacilli into a glycerine emulsion. It would appear, however, that all the preparations of tuberculin act in a similar manner and that their special action is due to the same element in all.

In recent years, scientists have learned a great deal about the problems of immunity in various infectious diseases. One of the most interesting phenomena is what is known as anaphylaxis, or the increased sensitiveness to bacteria, or to be specific, an increased sensitiveness to the protein constituent of the body of the germ.

Digitized by CjOOQle
927

In tuberculosis anyone who has ever had the germ in his body, be it even in a very slight degree, has this increased sensitiveness which is most generally recognized in the tuberculin reactions. Of these, the skin or Von Pirquet is the best known.

It now develops that this increased sensitiveness to tuberculin is one of the processes of immunity and the problem in tuberculin treatment is to so influence this reaction in the body cells that either an increased resistance to the germ may be produced, or else an increased tolerance to the poisons of the germ in the system. Recent investigations would tend to indicate that there is no direct immunity in the ordinary sense of the word to tuberculosis, but rather an increase of resistance to what is known as superinfection. For example, a slight infection with tuberculosis during early life may never give any symptoms, but the individual will as a result always react positively to the tuberculin test, and also very possibly has developed an increased resistance to later infection with the same germ.

It is thus evident that in tuberculin treatment we are dealing with very sensitive and delicate reactions. The results obtained are not always easy to see and the treatment itself should always be given with the utmost care by those well versed in the proper methods.

The great majority of cases of tuberculosis would better never be treated with tuberculin at all, but for certain other cases, the selection of which should always be left to an experienced physician, the results appear excellent. 'In general, it may be said that the more suitable cases are those in which the disease has become localized in the system. This is best seen in cases of so-called surgical tuberculosis, that is of the bones, glands, or joints, etc., and similarly to the more localized chronic cases of pulmonary tuberculosis.

The injection of small increasing doses of tuberculin seems to favorably influence the course of the disease as evidenced by diminution of general symptoms, with a corresponding improvement in general health, and particularly by diminishing the liability to relapse when the patient goes back to ordinary methods of life.

Another way in which it has been suggested that tuberculin can be given is by what is known as autoinoculation. If a patient with tuberculosis takes physical exercise and does physical work it has •been shown that there is produced a reaction in the blood due to the absorption of the poison from the diseased area. This poison, to all intents and purposes, corresponds to the artificial tuberculin.

Dr. Patterson of Frimley, England, devised a method by which the work or exercise of his patients should be very carefully graduated and the reactions checked up by careful biood examinations. In this way a system of controlling the amount of poison liberated into the blood was developed, that is, autoinoculation was controlled, and
928

tuberculin treatment was in that way carried out without the necessity of the hypodermic injections of the artificial tuberculin.

This method is now in use in a number of places and good results have been reported. It must be said, however, that many conservative physicians consider this method of treatment somewhat dangerous as it is not easy to absolutely control the amount of autoinoculation. In any event this method should never be carried out excepting where patients are under the very strict supervision of expert physicians.

The results reported from this method are very similar to those reported by the use of injections of tuberculin, and the type of cases in which it is employed is the same.

In the past few years laboratory investigations looking toward the cure of tuberculosis are beginning to be more in the direction of finding some chemical agent which will act directly upon the germ without doing harm to the tissues of the body. The brilliant results which have attended experiments in this field are “Chemotherapy.” In other diseases, notably syphilis, the results lead us to hope that the future has something in store along these lines for the treatment of tuberculosis also.

Certain it is that, in the tuberculin and other similar methods of treatment designed to act favorably in tuberculosis by influencing the resistance or immunity to the disease, we have a very limited field of usefulness.

In the first place, as we have seen, the cases which are suitable for this treatment are but a small proportion of all. Secondly, the amount of increased resistance obtained is relative and not absolute. It is therefore to be hoped that the newer field of “Chemotherapy” may have something better to offer.

In summarizing the present status of tuberculin in the treatment of tuberculosis we may say:

First—That a method has been devised by very small and gradually increasing doses by which no harm can result, provided only suitable cases are selected.

Second—That considerable clinical evidence exists showing that in such suitable cases tuberculin helps the patients to improve, and also makes their improvement more permanent.

Third—That any increased resistance of immunity to tuberculosis, which tuberculin treatment may produce, is quite limited.

Fourth—That tuberculin is in no sense a cure for tuberculosis, but is simply an aid to the other generally accepted methods of treatment, such as good food, fresh air and the proper regulation of rest and exercise.—The Survey.

Effective Industrial Hygiene.—An important result of the present “safety first” campaign is the opening of our eyes to a realization

Digitized by o.ooQle
929

of the fact that it is not sufficient to make industries “safe” merely from an accident standpoint: they shall be “safe” also from a health standpoint. This principle is the keynote of an article by J. W. Schereschewsky of the Public Health Service in Public Health Reports on a plan for education in the avoidance of occupational diseases and injuries, in which he gives a tentative scheme for accomplishing this object. He says that the approximate average yearly loss through sickness of workers in this country would probably be about the same as it is in Europe—not far from eight to nine days for each of the 25,000,000 to 30,000,000 industrial workers, or an economic loss of $360,000,000 if the average annual earnings are $600. This would not take into consideration the loss due to premature physical decline or reduction in earning capacity, which at present cannot be estimated.

Any plan for improvement in this respect involves the education of every one concerned, which, Schereschewsky says, must be general in nature because of the close interdependence of all the units of society. Improvement in this respect first requires the education of the medical profession and the stimulation of interest in the study of diseases of occupation, the collection of clinical data bearing on occupational diseases, and the promotion of research along these lines. Education of the public is important, because an enlightened public opinion is necessary to the successful carrying out of any measures which may be recommended after careful studv of the problems involved.

Schereschewsky says that although industrial workers constitute by far the largest class of medical patients, yet physicians in general regard the study of the relation of disease to occupation as a specialty with which the general practitioner and the specialist in other fields are not closely concerned.

The influence of the industries on health is a subject which has been given little attention in the courses of instruction in medical schools. Hospitals are the chief sources of clinical material and are the natural locations where intensive studies of diseases may be made. In order to utilize this source of information in regard to occupational diseases, the adoption of systematic methods and terms for recording occupations and diseases is necessary. Standard methods of history taking must also be employed. Death certificates should correctly and exactly indicate occupation and use the international system of recording deaths. Accurate information of this kind would be invaluable in the study of the mortality of occupations. Even if this were carried out in a relatively small number of hospitals, it would soon produce an accumulation of valuable information.

The instruction of the public to co-operate ir procuring safety in the industries and the securing of personal and collective hygiene and sanitation, Schereschewsky'says, must be the result of govern-

Digitized by CaOOQle
930

mental action, federal, state and municipal, allied with other civic agencies. Minimum standards of industrial sanitation and legislation must be established, and this must be the work of the federal government. The adoption of such standards is the work of the legislatures of the states, but this need not preclude the adoption of additional measures by municipalities or by the employers of labor, labor organization, etc.

As features of a public educational campaign in the prevention of occupational diseases and injuries, Schereschewsky gives the following outline:	permanent	exhibits; traveling exhibits including

moving pictures; public lectures; bulletins issued for popular distribution by federal, state and local health authorities and by private associations; popular articles in the public press, and instruction in the public schools. All of these measures have been adopted and carried out to a certain extent in a few communities; some have been more generally employed.

Extensive results from any plan of education can be expected only after years of work similar to that outlined above. The employers of labor of course constitute an important factor in the improvement in respect to the prevention of occupational diseases. They too need to be educated, but now the idea is fast gaining ground among them that it is poor social and business economy to subject workers to avoidable industrial hazards. As a consequence, many employers are voluntarily improving working conditions in their plants, supervising the health of their employees and attempting educational measures among them. These measures have been found to yield increased efficiency and economy in production and have fostered the spirit of co-operation.—Journal Amer. Med. Assoc.

WEAK FEET AND POSTURAL DEFORMITY IN CHILDREN.

By CHARLES OGILVY, M. D., New York.

(New York Medical Journal.)

Note the term “weak feet,” and not “flat feet;” for the condition of weak feet should be recognized long before the flattening or lowering of the long arch of the foot has developed. The importance of the care of the feet can not be overestimated. Seldom is a weak foot recognized before flattening has developed and a long train of symptoms has followed in its wake.

The body weight normally passes through the center of the knee joint, a little to its inner side, down the leg through a line represented by the crest of the tibia, through the center of the ankle joint and over the dorsum of the foot to the second toe. When we find the foot everted (rolled butward), this relationship is immediately

Digitized by V.ooQle
931

changed, and the body weight no longer passes over the dorsum of the foot to the second toe, but down to the inner side of the foot, to a point corresponding to the astragalo-scaphoid articulation. Just as soon, then, as this abnormal relationship is established, just so soon is there demanded of the long arch of the foot the sustenance of the body weight bearing down upon its highest point. It is then simply a matter of time before it gradually gives way. Symptoms of discomfort, and subsequently pain, develop (sometimes associated with backache), and later tbrere presents itself to us a typical flat foot. This could have easily been prevented by the recognition of the eversion and its correction.

Treatment.—The proper treatment of weak feet, or even flat feet, is by no means an insertion of plates or foot supports, which the patients are usually advised to procure at some near-by shoe store. Such arch supports do more harm than good. The proper foot plate is one which supports the foot anteroposteriorly and also laterally when the foot is performing its function of weight bearing. Such a plate can only be made from a plaster model of the foot, which plaster cast is further remodeled to complete the correction of the deformity desired. Furthermore, the employment of any arch support is detrimental to the well-being of such feet unless the eversion, which has already been noted and which is always present, is first corrected. This is really the most important point in the treatment of weak feet. It can be corrected and controlled by elevating the inner side of the heel of the shoe and extending the heel forward on the sole some three-quarters of an inch. This should be done in every case.

In the milder cases this alone will be found all that is necessary, provided the shoe chosen is built on proper lines—with a straight line on the inner side of the sole, etc., to obtain proper foot balance. In addition, we must, by foot exercises, strengthen the muscles which control the position of the foot in its relation to the leg, and so enable us to retain our . corrected position.

ANTEROPOSTERIOR POSTURAL DEFORMITY.

The subject of anteroposterior postural deformity is one which, up to the present time, has not been sufficiently emphasized.

If we could but have these cases recognized early we would not see so many of the marked deformities of rotary lateral curvature which are constantly being referred to us. The class of patients which are here referred to are characterized by very definite and constant peculiarities. They are those who lack muscle tone. These are the children whom you see lagging behind in their romp and play, tiring very easily, refusing to continue the game with the other children, hanging back when any active exercise is being enjoyed. They run clumsily, they walk with an ungainly gait — with rounded shoulders and head forward. In the standing posture the abdomen is prominent, the shoulders are rounded, the chest is sunken (retract-

Digitized by CaOOQle
932

ed), and the head is protruded. When sitting down they may best be characterized as those who “flop over,,, either upon their book or upon the table before which they are seated. .	.	.	The	condition

is found more frequently among girls than boys, the reason for this being that boys are naturally more inclined to the muscular activities of outdoor sports and games.

The difficulty of diagnosis from the indefiniteness of the symptoms is counteracted by the ease with which the condition is recognized when the clothing is removed and the patient is made to stand before the examiner. One recognizes at a glance the abnormal posture, and the diagnosis should immediately be made.

There is no structural change in this deformity. The position is entirely due to habit. This postural deformity can be voluntarily corrected by the patient. The condition can be cured by properly directed breathing exercises, light free exercises, and good hygienic and dietetic care.

HEALTH TEACHING*

IMPORTANCE.

1.	“We infer that as vigorous health and its accompanying high spirits are larger elements of happiness than any other things, whatever, the teaching how to maintain them is a teaching that yields investment as no other whatever, and, therefore, we assert that sucfr a course of physiology as is needful for the comprehension of its ^general truths and their bearings on daily conduct, is an all-essential part of a rational education.”—Spencer's “Education”—Chapter on “What Knowledge is of Most Worth”

2.	Physiological psychology makes clear the intimate relations between body and mind.

3.	The emotional life is largely dependent upon the physical condition.

4.	Recent studies in criminology make it clear that there is a very direct connection between health and the wholesomeness of the environment and morality.

5.	At the same time that education opens up the world and its activities to the mind of the child, it should develop and strengthen {the/chifcFs physical vigor and endurance so that it may grow into active, forceful interest in the world and its activities through desirable and dependable habits of both body and spirit.

6.	The great complexity of modern life, with its rapidly increasing stress and strain, demands these habits and this physical vigor and endurance; and the efficiency of the school is not to be measured by its ability to make education easv and to shield the child from tasks and duties that are hard, but rather in its ability to de-

* Extracts from an address by John P. Garber, Ph. D., Superintendent of Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
933

velop the child’s power to meet such tasks and duties with resolute will and capable body and mind, thus guaranteeing its endurance under all of the stress and strain of later life.

UNDERLYING PRINCIPLES.

1.	The health work of the teacher, the Physical Training Department, and the Department of Medical Inspection should be unified in a way that will give more forceful meaning to their varied yet single purpose—the physical well-being of the child.

2.	Health-knowledge without health-practice is educational waste. In fact, establishing health-habits is far more important than the mere furnishing of health-information.

3.	Health-practice must very often precede the reason for it, although intelligent appreciation of the general reasons for the practice may often be developed quite early.

4.	Health is the normal condition of the child, and the benefits, and possibilities of health should be dwelt upon rather than the morbid horrors of disease.

5.	Every subject should be treated from the standpoint of the body as a whole, with the relation of the part, or^an, or function under consideration to the whole body.

6.	The intimate relation of the various parts of the body to one another should be emphasized.

7.	The teacher should be regarded as the health-guardian of the child and the one who, because of her intelligence and daily contact with the child, is the best fitted to promote its physical welfare. Her enlightenment on the recognition of the early stages of the most common contagious diseases, and the more glaring physical defects, should form an important part of any course of study.

8.	Pupils should be given an introductory glance into the intensely interesting and practical subject of germ-life and the important part it plays in the human economy. The necessity of carefully disinfecting pencils that are collected and distributed, and the dangers arising from putting the end of the pencil in the mouth, furnish practical illustrations of the care needed in order to avoid introducing disease germs into the body.

g. The teacher should not only emphasize important matters of personal hygiene but also aim to develop the pupil’s intelligence and sympathetic interest in problems of sanitation and health as they pertain to the school, the home, and the community. This is a first and important step in the larger social service which every pupil, even the youngest should be taught to render.

METHODS.

1. The instruction should be associated directly with the daily school, home, and community life of the pupil and, in so far as possible, be based upon actual conditions and occurrences.

Digitized by L.ooQLe
934

2.	The teaching- should be positive and not negative, based upon the active health practices that will develop the body into an efficient helper toward realizing the aims and ambitions of life. The child is naturally active, and the mistake should not be made of dwelling on forbidden activities. The immature and childish aims of the pupil, if worthy, may have to be utilized at first as objectives for stimulating; these health-practices. The near and live interests of the child must always be considered.

3.	The instruction should be of such a character that the pupil can deduce his own hygienic rules and practices,—the best work is done by “teaching” not by “preaching.” The teacher should be careful, however, to see that such deductions are clearly made and well formulated before abandoning the subject she is teaching. She should also remember that the ability of the young child to draw inferences is often weak and that therefore the means of suggesting the desired truth must be simple and direct.

4.	Care should be taken to see that statements and inferences are not made against which the pupil's own observation may present apparent contradictions. This is especially true in dealing with such subjects as the use of tobacco, where the social and economic loss can usually be more safely stressed and more surely grasped than the physical loss. In fact many lessons on personal hygiene are best approached through their social and economic advantages.

5.	In the primary grades the instruction should be almost wholly by means of conversations and stories, and always concrete. In the grammar grades the instruction should be more formal, but the scientific phases of the subject should be left for the higher schools.

6.	{Technical names need not necessarily be avoided but they should not be used if they appear to be obscure or present any serious difficulty to the pupil.

7.	The teacher herself must be a model of hygienic living and the school environment must furnish a wholesome example of desirable health conditions.

TESTS OF EFFICIENCY OF THE TEACHING.

1.	The success of the personal-hygiene teaching will show very largely in the appearance of the pupils while at work and while at play.

2.	The success of the home and community phases of the work must necessarily be determined very largelv by the intelligence and interest displayed by the pupils in the health problems that lie outside of the school.

3.	Pupils should be led to appreciate as fully as possible the fact that good health-habits are the real test of'the character of their work in Physiology and Hygiene, and also that such habits have a very direct bearing on the work which they are able to do in the other

Digitized by C.ooQle
935

subjects of study. Such health-habits will also serve them well in meeting the requirements of the physical examination necessary, after January i, 1916, in order to secure an employment certificate in the state of Pennsylvania. But, above all, they are absolutely essential if their bodies are to become the trustworthy servants of their entire nature—physical, mental, and spiritual.

THE CASE SYSTEM OF TEACHING HYGIENE AND PREVENTIVE MEDICINE IN THE UPPER GRADES*

By HARRY W. HAIGHT, Princeton University.

At the present time the teaching of hygiene in the public schools is for the most part by exposition, i. e., the teacher assigns a few pages from a textbook and at recitation seeks to expound its lessons by questions, illustrations and references to concrete examples. The method is like teaching arithmetic without problems. It does not lead the pupil to think for himself. It has been our endeavor to devise a system that does.

The subject of preventive medicine is very hard for the public school teacher to get at. The individual’s efficiency in prevention depends not only upon an understanding of the laws of health but also upon an understanding of the early symptoms of disease, just as an engineer must know not only how to keep his machine going but how to tell when it starts to go wrong. Records of cases that have gone wrong, await solution, are solved, and go right, after a good opportunity to acquire an understanding of the reasons basic to the laws of health and an understanding of why the early symptoms of disease occur.

The writer has been employing the case system in teaching hygiene and preventive medicine during the past two years in public school work. In using the case system to teach hygiene and preventive medicine, the teacher at the start of the lesson distributes to the pupils records of specific cases of disease and disorders which occur commonly in every-day life. The cases are given out just as they occur in life, i. e., the diagnosis, prognosis and treatment are not given away but must be thought out by the pupil. The teacher is* given a teacher’s edition which consists of three things: (1) the subsequent history of the case setting forth the diagnosis, outcome and treatment; (II) a list of objects that the case is designed to accomplish; (III) an outline of practical and scientific facts used to teach the lessons designed to accomplish the objects.

Reprinted from the Educational Review, New York, May, 1915.

Copyright, 1915, by Educational Review Publishing Co

Digitized by Dogle
936

As an illustration the following case was given out:

“Michael P., aged thirty-two, a motorman, had been working at his occupation about six months when he noticed that the veins in his legs were getting large. In six months more they were very large and there were more of them. At the end of two years he had masses of large, hard, knotted veins on both legs and up the inside of the thigh. The pain in the veins often kept him awake at night. In speaking to a friend about it, his wife said that he was troubled with ‘very coarse veins/ While driving his car through heavy traffic down-town he felt a sharp pain and soon his foot felt wet.”

The pupils were given three minutes to read it over and decide in their own minds the answer to three questions: (I) What is the trouble with the man? (II) What is the outlook for him? (Ill) What would you do? If the case is of an unfamiliar sort, the answers are given orally. If similar cases have been taken up before and correct answers are to be expected, the answers are written out so that everyone commits himself.

In addition to the case the teacher had been given the following subsequent history and outline of facts to be taught: “By the time he reached the end of the block quite a pool of blood had collected on the floor. A doctor had him sit down and put his leg over the back of a seat. The bleeding stopped.

“The direct objects of this case are: (I) To prevent varicose veins. (II) To prevent varicose ulcers. (Ill) To prevent embolism of lungs. (IV) To prevent death by hemorrhage.

“The incidental objects are: (I) To call attention to the circulatory apparatus especially the veins. (II) To call attention Lo the manner of venous circulation. (Ill) To call attention to the massage action of the muscles.

“The first, second, and third direct objects may be attacked by lines of questions developing the following facts:	(I) The man’s

trouble is varicose veins. (II) The cause is the gravitation of the fluids to the lower extremities in a man constantly standing on his feet and not moving around. Postmen do not have varicose veins. Motormen do very commonly. Traffic officers who stand still have them. Patrolmen do not. (Ill) The reasons for that are two: (I) The heart is stimulated by exercise to pump harder and better the circulation. (2) The large factor is the massage action of the muscle. The natural contraction and relaxation of the muscles massage the blood out of the veins and the veins themselves. (IV) The only cure for these veins now is to cut them out. (V) Had this man started exercising when he first noticed the veins enlarging six months after becoming a motorman he would not have had them. (VI) Dancing, walking, running or any sport that exercises the legs will do as a form of exercise. (VII) The veins should be removed

Digitized by C.ooQle
937

because of the pain and because they are apt to thrombose, that is, fuse together and destroy the circulation to a part of the skin of the leg. (VIII) This will result in a varicose ulcer, the so-called milk-leg. It is very difficult, almost impossible, to get one to stay healed. Most people that have them have a running sore as long as they live. Pieces inside the thrombosed vein are apt to break loose and result fatally at any time by plugging up the lungs. (The broken-off piece is called an embolus. Its circulation through the blood ancT lodgment is called embolism/ (IX) Any massaging of a thrombosed or inflamed vein is apt to result in embolism. It benefits ordinary varicose veins. (X) Round garters cause varicose veins.

“The fourth subject may be attacked by a line of questions developing the following facts: (i) The cause of the sharp pain was the bursting of the varicose vein. (2) The cause of the wet foot was blood. (3) The hemorrhage may be stopped by elevating the foot, by applying pressure to the wound with the bare hand or some cloth, or by putting a tourniquet around the thigh. Since it is a vein, putting a tourniquet just below the wound might stop it. (5) Hemorrhage from an artery is more difficult to control.

“The first incidental object may be attacked by developing the following facts:	(1)	The	arterial blood circulates because it is

pumped directly from the heart into the arteries. (2) From the arteries it goes to the capillaries. (3) By the time the blood gets to the capillaries most of the force with which it has been pumped has been lost. (4) Some of the force remains and pushes the venous blood along every .time the heart contracts. (5) The valves in the veins keep the blood from falling back when the heart relaxes.

“The second incidental object may be further attacked by developing the following facts: (1) The massage action of the muscles prevents stagnation around the cells. (2) Every cell is constantly at work taking in food and oxygen, converting them into itself and giving off waste products as it acts. (3) This industry of each cell will be accelerated by the massage action of the muscles.

(4)	In a limited way the nerves, blood vessels, lymphatics, bones, and tendons benefit. (5) The greatest benefit is probably derived by the abdominal viscera. (6) People who have disease of the abdominal viscera usually have weak abdominal walls which they do not exercise.”

In a like manner the entire field of hygiene and preventive medicine are covered. Many of the cases are about tht prevention of things in which the child is immediately interested, skin infections, colds, postural defects, effects of improper diet and ventilation. The above case was chosen to show that the children can reason accurately about a rather complicated case and not because it is valuable as a more common one. In this instance the children in the sixth grade

Digitized by Google
938

made a diagnosis of hemorrhage and varicose veins without being told. In response to the question of what she thought was the matter with the man, a little girl said that he had burst a blood vessel.

The case system is not a new thing. Plato and Socrates both used it. Of late years it has been employed extensively in the Harvard Law School and less extensively in many medical schools.

The writer has been unable to find that it is at present or has been employed in any graded school in this country for the purpose of teaching hygiene and preventive medicine. True it is that almost every educator to whom the subject is mentioned says, “I have always used a case system.” What he means is that he has used cases to illustrate the concepts he was seeking to expound. There is a fundamental difference between the case system and that. The case system uses cases as foundation stones on which to develop judgments, not as illustrations for concepts. It is conceivable that once upon a time the principles of arithmetic were taught without any problems and that in the course of time it occurred to some one that it would be a good idea to add problems for solution. The present method of teaching hygiene is like the method of teaching arithmetic without any problems. Adding illustrative cases does not change i,t. Adding problems in the shape of unknown cases does. That is one of the contributions of the case system. In employing the case system specific cases of accidents, diseases, and disorder and examples of unusually good hygiene are given out to the pupils. The points of the cases are not given away but the pupils are led to form judgments about whatever knowledge of the medical sciences of anatomy, physiology, pathology and hygiene are essential to the genuine understanding of the case and follow naturally from it.

Giving the pupils the above case and asking them, “What is the matter? What would you do? What is the outlook for the man?” is a far different matter than adding the subsequent history and using it as an illustration of how varicose veins occur and what to do for hemorrhage.

Perhaps the reason that this system is not used in graded schools is because no one has ever tried it adequately. The writer sought the advice of numerous educators before making actual trial. The consensus of opinion was that it probably would not work at all among high school children and that if it did work in high school it would not work in the grades. Experience proved the opinion wrong. The children in the fifth grade are very keen in seeing the point of these cases and form just as good judgments about them as the medical students did whom the writer had been teaching previously.

In carrying out the work several important advantages have been observed. The pupils do like the subject better when taught

Digitized by C,ooQle
939

in this way and take more interest in it. It is not uncommon to have classes ask that the exercise be continued into recess and into the next hour. The teachers prefer to use this method in teaching both because of the added interest and because of the feeling that they are more apt to get results in the way of actual prevention.

The latter sentiment is because the subject matter is presented from a practical rather than an academic point of view. Not only do the pupils get the knowledge they need but they encounter it exactly as they do in later life. The view-point is the view-point of actual life and experience. Knowledge gained from that view-point can be applied.

Perhaps another reason why teachers prefer this method is because it gives them a much greater opportunity of making a lasting primary impression on the pupils. Where the pupils have the chance of reading all of the concepts to be developed out of a textbook before the teacher mentions them she is robbed of most of her ammunition. If we may believe the laws of psychology, the securing of a better primary impression should help to secure a'better remembrance of the subject matter.

Another factor which should serve to secure better memory is the fact that in the case system the subject matter has better connection. Everything is connected with a part of life. No academic exposition has any such connection.

Some psychologists hold that repetition is the greatest factor in remembrance. The case system offers a wonderful chance for repetition. Cases occurring in life which involve practically the same lessons are different enough so that ample repetition may be made without causing the revulsion that accompanies the repetition of the same bit of academic knowledge. Repetition without revulsion must be a great advantage.

Ordinarily in teaching the subject of hygiene the teacher seeks to expound certain concepts with the idea of giving a useful body of knowledge to the pupil. When you place the case system in the teacher’s hands teaching this subject becomes an altogether different proposition. She is then trying to help the pupil develop his mind. It is not a matter of expounding concepts any longer. It is a matter of getting the pupil to form judgments and that is real mental discipline. These judgments are judgments of probabilities, just the sort of mental process the child is going to live by, not the hard and fast judgments of algebra and Latin grammar. Business men have cried aloud for training in the judgment of probabilities in the public schools. The case system is surely a step in that direction.

It requires a certain amount of courage to make up your mind. {That is what forming a judgment is. The value to the pupils of

Digitized by CjOOQle
940

making up their minds about the problems that a case presents; reasoning from its premises; coming to a conclusion; getting up and voicing to the public that conclusion, right or wrong, must be great. The increase in self-confidence that pupils show is certainly very gratifying.

It has been said that the object of every pedagogical exercise should be to cause cerebration. There is no doubt that this system does get the pupils to think.

Heredity Versus Environment.—Only by constant selection of the best can any race ever be improved. No education, no environment of any nature, can ever make any appreciable progress even though these same favorable surroundings may produce, through ages, a definite but indefinitely slow increment, which by constant repetition becomes slowly available in heredity, but by no means fixed, so that reproduction, true to the better type, can be depended on.—Luther Burbank.

Exercise in Nervous Disorders.—As a prophylactic agent nervous disorders, the value of exercise can hardly be over-estimated. Brain workers are better for moderate exercise, but do not need much; and after 25, severe intellectual work can rarely be done by persons in athletic training.—Dana.

Cleanliness Now Cheaper Than Chemicals.—i-The European war sent the prices of benzoates from about 18 cents per pound to $2.co per pound and then food manufacturers who claim we could not get along without benzoates, at once seem to have made a new discovery that after all benzoates are not necessary—sterilization is a cheaper food preservative than benzoate at $2.00 per pound.—N. Dak.'Agric. Experiment Station Bull., September, 1915..

Mental Defectives.—We have come to realize that our moral judgments are inextricably mixed un with social judgments; that general intelligence, learning, experience, etc., are brought into play in the exercise of every moral judgment; that millions of brain processes are involved in every thought and act, and conduct is an expression of the whole machinery at work; that there is no ground for the presupposition of a separate sense that sits in judgment, an-proving or disapproving of our actions. In short, a mentality incapable of forming moral judgments is likewise incapable of forming normal judgments along other lines, and is (ipso facto) a defective mentality, and is demonstrable by a thorough examination of general intelligence, judgment, reasoning capacity, etc. These are mental defectives, and not moral imbeciles.—V. V. Anderson, Boston Med. and Surg. Jour., Sept. 23, 1915.

Digitized by CjOOQle
941

Reduction of Feebleminded in Schools.—Dr. J. E. Wallace Wallin, director of the psycho-educational clinic of the St. Louis public schools, in his first annual report, shows a decrease of nearly 25 per cent, in the number of children listed as feebleminded, as compared with last year. When Dr. Wallin took charge of the clinic, 468 pupils were receiving instruction in special schools for the feebleminded. By classifying these children he has reduced the number of pupils in special schools to 372. Of the total number of children examined by him, 7 per cent, proved normal; 12 per cent, showed evidence of retarded intellect; 33 per cent, were listed as backward; 11 per cent, were on the border-line between backwardness and the first state of feeblemindedness; 15 per cent, were morons; 14 per cent, imbeciles, and 1 per cent, idiots. Of the entire number 20 per cent, had speech defects.

Prof. Ferdinand Goetz, sanitary expert and director of the German system of physical exercise, died in Leipzig, October 13 at the age of 88 years. Early in his career he became interested in gymnastics and shortly after arriving in Leipzig in 1855, he was instrumental in organizing several turner or gymnastic societies. He also assumed the editorship of a number of journals devoted to gymnastics. He was the author of several books on gymnastics and for many years was chairman of the Association of German Turner Societies. His eighty-fifth birthday was celebrated by all the German turner societies, and an honorary Ph.D. was conferred on him by the University of Kiel.—From Berlin Letter to Journ. Am. Med. Assoc.

EFFICIENCY OF THE BODY AS A MACHINE.

£ver since Count Rum ford first suggested that the muscular work of two horses produced enough heat to boil water, speculation has been rife as to how much heat man loses during work and how efficient the human body is as a machine. The relationship between the energy consumption and the output of work has been extensively studied with various methods and machines. Dumas and Bous-singalt,(i) by determining that a man used 300 gm. of carbon in climbing Mont Blanc, computed the efficiency of the body as 33 per cent. Frick(2) found that under the best conditions isolated muscle has an efficiency of 25 per cent. Gautier estimated that a working diet is 1,780 calories in excess of a resting diet, and that a man produces 270,000 kilogrammeters of work per day, which is equal to 588 calories. But of the 270,000 kilogrammeters, 100,000 are lost in the different movements of the body and “in the friction of the machine,” so that the useful work is 15,000 kilogrammeters, or 352

1.	Dumas and Boussingalt:	Essai	de	statique des etres organises, 1884; cited

by Amar: Le rendement de la machine humaine, Paris, 1910, p. 21.

2.	Frick: Arch. f. d. ges. Physiol. (Pfluger’s), 1878. xvi. 58.

Digitized by
942

calories. Therefore, of the 1,780 calories but 352 are transformed into work, giving a net efficiency of 20 per cent. Smith (3) found that, of the total heat incidental to muscular work, only one-fifth was used in the production of mechanical work.

There are notable inaccuracies, however, in each of these methods; hence the careful studies and the improved methods used by Benedict and Cathcart(4) in determining the efficiency of the body are especially valuable. These investigators used a bicycle with an accurately calibrated electric brake. The amount of oxygen consumed and the carbon dioxid produced by a man riding this bicycle ergometer was determined with a new form of respiration apparatus. Benedict and Cathcart thus determined the amount of heat that was eliminated per minute and the nature of the materials that were burned in producing this heat. All tests were performed twelve hours after the last meal, so that the food materials used were those stored in the body. By computing the relationship between the heat equivalent of the external muscular work as measured by the ergometer and the total heat output, they found that the net efficiency varied from 9 to 24 per cent., depending on the various speeds and loads that were placed on the bicycle rider. These differences are easily explained on comparison with a steam engine. A certain amount of steam is used in keeping up heat when the engine is not working at all. Slow revolutions and also too rapid revolutions of the fly wheel are less efficient in the production of work. In short, there seems to be a certain rate of speed for each engine at which it is most efficient. So it is with man in work production. Benedict and Cathcart found the average net efficiency of a professional cyclist and of four untrained men to be about 21 per cent, for each person. They found that the output of heat was constant per ten revolutions of the bicycle pedals, but that the increase in effective muscular work was not constant; there was a falling off as the higher rates are reached. The optimum efficiency was at 70 revolutions per minute. One objection to the accuracy of these results is that the cutaneous respiration is not considered, but this is a minor factor and would influence the final result but little.

Chauveau first found that during muscular work there is an excessive combustion of carbohydrates, so that in the subsequent period the catabolism is that of a body deficient in glycogen. Benedict and Cathcart have confirmed this and have demonstrated that the more severe the muscular activity, the heavier the draft on the carbohydrate material in the body. On the cessation of work the so-called “specific working catabolism’’ disappears, and for a time a much lower portion of carbohydrates is burned for the total energy output than during a

3.	Smith: Phil. Tr.. 1859. cxlix. 681.

4.	Benedict and Cathcart: Muscular Work, Publication 187, Carnegie Institution of Washington.

Digitized by CaOOQle
943

usual resting period. Chauveau has also contended that when the supply of glycogen is depleted, fat may be converted into glycogen. According to Chauveau, 30 per cent, more energy per unit of work is liberated than when carbohydrate is burned, since heat which cannot be otherwise utilized is set free during the conversion of fat into glycogen. The transformation of fat into glycogen, however, lacks conclusive proof, and Benedict and Cathcart have not observed the additional heat loss even in work experiments so severe that fatigue resulted.

This question of body efficiency is closely linked with athletic training, a subject about which we are still poorly informed. From this work it would seem that training influences metabolism but little and that diets are not so prominent a factor as we have assumed.— Editorial Jour. A. M. A., Oct. 9, 1915.

ATHLETIC NOTES

By E. HAUQy DeWItt Clinton High School New York City.

ATHLETICS IN HIGH SCHOOLS*

By C. F. WBEGE. M. D.. Carl Schurz High School. Chicago, 111.

The ancient Greeks believed athletics a means of developing an ideal race, of increasing the physical, intellectual, and moral powers. Their ideal was the embodiment of the beautiful. The Greek, in order to realize an ideal nation, aimed at an ideal citizen, and used athletics to make him ideal, by making it a universal practice among the masses. They did not select the best material, or hunt for stars, or concentrate effort on a selected few, or push into the background the weaker and less fortunately endowed for the glorification of privileged characters. Likewise, they did not specialize in any one event. Suitable exercises for the harmonious development of all the parts of the body were practiced. The Greek never aimed at mere muscular development. That came as a by-product. The “being beau-tiful” was his ideal. It goes without argument that a person physically strong but morally weak was below standard.

The question is, Is the Greek standard applicable to-day? To answer, let us take a look at the boy to be trained. The boy at the high-school age repeats in himself that stage in the rehearsal of the phylogenetic experiences where the individual was at the zenith of physical prowess, where man against man was the slogan. With a little imagination we can picture that stage where danger lurked behind every bush, when only the physically fittest could survive, and the instincts of perpetuation of the race drove the individual to a display of physical prowess. At the high-school age of the boy we see the awakening of all his possibilities. It is the springtime of

* Reprint from the Educational Bi-Monthly.

Digitized by LjOOQle
944

jmanhoocL 'The innate, inherited tendencies and proclivities will show signs of more marked definiteness. Certain tendencies have been demonstrated during preceding years, but at this time the springing into life of the sexual instincts makes the boy have an entirely new viewpoint of his whole being. Now is the time to observe what the young sapling may grow into now is the last chance for the pruning knife, and the last opportunity to harness up the dynamic force and lead it into channels most beneficial to the individual and the race.

How does the status quo of athletics conform on this ideal? Somewhere I read that play gives courage and strength, gives consolation and peace of mind in evil days. Well, it seems to me that the great majority of our educational writers know people and life only from their observations through their study windows, and the people who live and know life have no time to write. Theoretically, athletics, sports, and games should give strength, consolation, and peace of mind, in evil days; but the form, the shape in which athletics is presented, does not fit the requirements. In order that athletics shall tend to give perfect physical development, it must produce a being that is symmetrically developed. Arms, legs, and trunk must receive an equal share of training. Taking a Greek statue as a model, we do not find well developed biceps and chests supported by spindle-like legs, nor do we find powerful lower extremities and flabby or emaciated, undersized arms and chests. The whole statue conforms to the ideal of the beautiful; it is a harmoniously developed body in all its details. Our athletes can not come up to the Greek standard because we practice specializing. If the boy is an exceptionally good runner, we try our level best to train him to the highest efficiency in running, and running only; or, if he is built for a shot putter, we concentrate our efforts in that direction. It is points that count in athletic meets, not all around development. It needs no argument to prove that in either case we are not producing a harmoniously developed young man.

The evil of specializing gives birth to a still more serious one. It is that of overtraining. The athlete must put himself in the best possible condition; every ounce of his vitality must be utilized. The records are high and competition is keen. The results are athletic hearts, kidney trouble, a premature using up of the reserve energy that nature had intended for the general building up of the body. Especially at the high-school age the practice of active training has most detrimental results. All the organs are still in the developing and growing stage. Now, if all the energy that the body is able to produce is used up in gaining the highest possible speed in running, then there is nothing left to bring these organs to full maturity. Any activity that calls for the last ounce of strength, that demands the maximum production of energy from each cell in the body, ruins
945

the boy's health and makes him a cripple for life. It is proven that not only at the high-school age these practices have detrimental results; it is a well known fact in the medical profession that athletes do not live as long as others. In the Journal of the American Medical Association the Surgeon-General of the Navy in his report of 1911 makes the following statements: “With an unparalleled opportunity for observing, during their school course and in their subsequent careers, large classes of young men in the navy, the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery has formed the opinion that competitive and spectacular athletics are undesirable. The prolonged vigorous course of physical exercise necessary to excel in physical sports is believed to be dangerous in its after-effects." Doctor Dudley B. Reed, medical examiner of the University of Chicago, makes the following statement in the Medical Times of New York: “I11 the examination of freshmen who have participated in violent athletics in preparatory schools, it is coming to be almost the rule to find slightly enlarged, irritable, and overacting hearts."

Doctor J. W. Kime, Superintendent of Boulder Lodge Sanatorium for Tuberculosis, Fort Dodge, Iowa, writes, “In crippled hearts and injured lungs; in undue proportion of tuberculosis; in hardened arteries and ruined kidneys; and in physical damages of many kinds, we find the story inscribed in the doctors’ records of the after lives of these same athletes; and these broken bodies, we must recall, were the fittest in their class.

“Indeed, it was this same story in the case records of an institution for tuberculosis which prompted me to seek the cause for the wreckage of these young men—the very flower of physical fitness among our youth.

“We would look last among our strong men, our athletes, for records for our tuberculosis sanatoriums. On the contrary this class contributes an undue number to our hospital ranks

In commenting upon his observations at meets. Dr. Kime writes, “As they approach the goal the last fagots are thrown into the furnace—every energy consumed—panting, reeling, staggering! and falling, they hurl their limp, exhausted bodies across the line."

And this in the name of education and under the guise of physical development! We would not permit such crueltv to a dog.

Many more statements of men who know, of men who did research work to show the relation of athletics to the welfare of the body, could be brought to substantiate my statements. Even if there is a diversity of opinion as to the extent and intensity of the injury to the internal organs, there is unity on this point, that all around development for all should be our goal.

In considering the intellectual and moral effects of athletics, we must bear in mind that the effects as observed are not only the result of the physical activities pure and simple, but are also due to

Digitized by CjOOQle
946

the present status in competition and external influences. And furthermore, I can not emphasize this too strongly,—that the origin, the cause for all the drawbacks, does not lie within the boy. I firmly believe in the American boy. Our boys are as pure, as clean cut, as we find them anywhere; and if it is true that a wrongdoer is the product of environment, it is certainly so in athletics. What are the effect^? It will not help in any way to bare the facts with brutal frankness; suffice it to say that athletics does not raise the standard of citizenship, and as a fitting climax comes the most pernicious fact that the boys know that the faculty knows that not everything is as it should be. This latter glaring phase needs no comment, but emphasizes the difficulty of the task of reform. One hesitates to candidly give the facts that close observation reveals; it took a Hercules to clean out the Augean Stalls. Competition in business and politics may make a virtue out of a dishonorable act if gotten away with; but surely, anything that fosters and encourages it in school life has no place in education. As long as the number of champion teams is considered in rating a school, as long as championships and records are the goals, so long will the evil influence of athletics be detrimental to developing character in our boys. The number of winning teams may act as a drawing card to get a few more pupils to the school, but does it show that good work is done at that school in either athletics or any other branch of education ?

Another, if not the most glaring, the most condemnable result of the mismanagement, is the absolute neglect of all who are not so fortunate as to make the teams. If we draw the boys to our institutions, we must give every one a chance to participate in that branch for which he was brought there. John Brown and James Smith both pay their school taxes; why, then, should Smith Jr. be deprived of any advantages of the things his father’s money has helped to product? Why should John Brown Jr. reap all the benefits? And where is the democratic spirit in spending all the funds gained in school1 entertainments and the like on about three per cent of the boys in a school? Should not the weaker ones, those who cannot make the teams, receive special attention? Should we not endeavor to raise the standard of all our boys and girls? We cannot hope for an advancement of the race if an infinitesimal percentage only of the individuals are selected to be developed to the highest point of efficiency. If the improvement of the present race shall have any effect on future generations, we must let all the people enjoy the benefits of physical education. In summing up the situation with an unbiased mind, we are confronted by the perplexing conclusion that athletics is not used from an educational standpoint, that the welfare of the boy is not considered, but that it culminates in that responsibility-declining phrase, “The boy wants it.” So many, many heartbroken fathers and mothers mourn over the wrecked career of their

Digitized by CjOOQle
947

boy because they had not enough strength to say no, when “the boy wanted it.” I am, however, happy to be able to report that at least people who know the effects of athletics, will not submit to the venial sin of “The boys want it.” Dr. Kime writes, “At a recent field meet in Iowa, a physician was consulted by the father of one of the contestants concerning the competency of his son for the final race. The physician replied, 'Let him go; he is no worse off than the rest of the boys/ 'But would you let your boy run the race?’ persisted the father. 'My boy is better taught than to have any desire to do such foolish things,, the doctor said.”

A well known physician of this city, who has a boy in my class, never neglects, when opportunity offers, to remind me to make his boy work hard in his regular gymnasium work, but to keep him out of athletics.

The remedy. The first and foremost point to be considered must be to open the field of athletic activities to all the pupils. Athletics must not be a separate issue, but must be made a part of physical education and put under the supervision of that department.

Our boys must have competition. Even in geometry competition can be made a means of stimulating to best efforts, but no one should be excluded. Organize all the boys of one room, or one year, or one section into teams, and let them compete against other rooms ydars. Then, if interscholastic competition must be retained, select a number of boys a day or two before the meet, and let them try to see who comes out ahead. We must, however, do away with the present mode of allowing the school team to hold a monopoly on everything. The baseball diamond, the running track and gymnasium, must be open to everybody, and every one, stars and minor lights, must receive equal attention. Secondly, we must do away with specializing. Every boy must participate in every event. For any meet, intra-school or other, select a limited number of events, and the average ability of the whole class or team counts.

Thirdly, we must confine competition to such events as medical authorities and physiological research have found to be well within the limits of the ability of the average high-s^hool pupil.

Lastly, every participant must undergo an examination as to his fitness.

Following a scheme as above outlined, we do away with the objectionable features. Everybody receives the benefit of the training. We bring out the individuality of every boy. As success can only be obtained by the best efforts of the class as a whole, every boy will become a leader of the others; they will encourage and help each other. The points of the weaker help as much as those of the stronger. Instead of gaining exceptional ability of a very few in some particular event, we achieve a much higher standard of all the pupils in all events, and by this method we will not suppress individuality,
948

will not curb those who are more fortunately endowed by nature, but will give them the opportunity to use their exceptional ability in a far more ideal way. They will become co-workers with their classmates and the school, and thereby receive most excellent training for their future destiny, that of becoming citizens of the highest type, ever ready to use all their ability for the good of their country and humanity. Then athletics will become a powerful influence in eugenics and a part of education.

EXCERPTS OF THE ANNUAL A. A. U. MEETING.

Mr. George Turner of Baltimore was elected president of the A. A. U. at the annual convention of the Board of Governors and delegates Nov. 15, at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York. He is a former oarsman and later .became a rowing power in Baltimore. He has the ability to conduct the affairs of the A. A. U. and advanced ideas are expected of him.

Fred Rubien was re-elected (Secretary-treasurer, and Seward Simons, Los Angeles; John T. Taylor, Pittsburg: Dr. Charles G. Plummer, Salt Lake City, and Major George K. Herman, Chicago, were chosen vice-presidents. The A. A. U. committee, which will confer with the intercollegiate body on the amateur question, will be President Turner, Judge Weeks, Rubien, Lill and Herman Meyer, the latter of Philadelphia.

The report of Secretary Rubien showed a net gain for the year of $1,369.70. One of the most pleasing items handed out was the A. A. U.’s donation of $2,889.25 pledged toward the James E. Sullivan memorial fund. This monev will be put aside for the widow of the chief. This fund is distinct from the Sullivan fund of the Metropolitan Association, the moneys of which went to the erection of a monument.

As was expected the delegates awarded next year’s championships to Newark. The games will probably be held in that city, in connection with the 250 anniversary, the first Friday and Saturday after Labor day.

The delegates amended the rules of the A. A. U. so as to allow the cadets of the United States Military Academy and the midshipmen of the United States Naval Academy to compete in A. A. U. events without registration, provided all entries from the cadets and midshipmen be accompanied by a certificate signed by the officer in charge of athletics at West Point or Annapolis that the entrant is an amateur according to the rules of the A. A. U. and is eligible and authorized to compete as a representative of West Point or Annapolis.

One of the most radical steps taken by the A. A. U. in recent years was taken when the delegates voted to let down the bars to

Digitized by 0.ooQle
9 49

women and hereafter sanction athletic and swimming events among women and to keep the records made by the fair sex. The recommendation to recognize and sanction swimming events for women came from the Western Association. The Pacific Coast Association requested the A. A. U. to accept and make official records made by women swimmers on the coast this season.

After a long debate the delegates voted to lift the ban on women competing in sport. In events such as swimming where the sexes can meet on practically even terms, men and women now will be allowed to compete together. Heretofore the A. A. U. has not sanctioned mixed events.

The delegates voted to allow boxers in amateur tournaments to use tape over the bandages provided only two layers of tape and three layers of bandages be used. Only the back of the hand from wrist to knuckle can be bound with tape. It can not be wound around the knuckles. The bandages are subject to inspection by the referee.

THE END OF INTERNATIONAL SPORT.

To-day there is no international sport of any consequence, and the probability is that there will not be any for a generation. Indeed, in the history of sport the period that closed when the war broke out is likely to be remembered as the golden age.

Within the past year many of the best athletes of Europe have been killed; it is only too certain that many more will be killed or crippled before the war ends. Sport has ceased in virtually all the countries that are at war.

France and Germany, Austria and Italy had just begun to take up some forms of sport popular in England and America; that budding interest has been, of course, nipped, and will probably never flourish. Even the youth of England may not again be occupied so fully as in the past with football and tennis and cricket. The soberness of life and the poverty resulting from the war will not encourage the pursuit of games. If the nation takes them up again it will hardly be with the former sense of their importance. It will not be said of this war, as it was said of Waterloo, that it was won on the playing fields of Eton.

American athletes in the years to come will have almost no foreign competitors against whom to measure themselves. The Olvmpic games, if they are ever again held, can hardly rouse much interest in this country; victory for an American team would be so easy that our athletes would hardly covet the prize. It is impossible to imagine Frenchmen and Englishmen meeting Germans and Austrians in friendly athletic contests for many years to come.

Among the minor disasters of the war we must number the tragic end of international sport.—Youth's Companion.

Digitized by CjOOQle
950

FOOTBALL BAN AT CARLISLE.

The Carlisle team will not be a contender in future intercollegiate football games, as a result of a decision by Secretary of the Interior Lane after a conference with Commissioner Sells of the Indian Service, and Superintendent Lipps of the Carlisle Indian School.

Secretary Lane held that in the future football must be subordinated to the educational features of the school, deciding that while the game could be continued, it would be impossible for the team to make the showing that it should in the intercollegiate games, owing to the large number of men now being educated in industrial and manufacturing establishments.

It developed that of seventeen Carlisle Indians employed last year in one of the automobile factories, thirteen were on the team, or had been on previous teams. All returned to the school during the football season at a .sacrifice of educational opportunity as well as of wages.

Harvard athletic statistics show that 1,623 students have engaged in major and minor sports this year, the largest number in the history of the university. The increase was 299 over last year. Football proved the most popular, with 365 names enrolled, while 247 athletes went out for track and 252 played tennis.

George A. Percy of Arlington, a sophomore, was named as the strongest man in Harvard College. His record in the official strength test was 1442.2, beating the best previous mark, 1424, made two years ago by H. R. Hardwick, the football star.

Percy played hockey and baseball during his freshman year. He is 5 feet 8 inches in height, and weighs 161 pounds.

ABOLISH COLLEGIATE BASEBALL AT MINNESOTA.

The University of Minnesota senate, a faculty body controlling university activities, decided to abolish intercollegiate baseball at the university, limiting this sport to local class contests.

ATHLETICS FOR STUDENTS--PENNSYLVANIA WILL REQUIRE COURSES

FOR SPORTS WITH GYMNASIUM WORK.

Students of the University of Pennsylvania are to be requested to take up some branch of sport in connection with their physical training course, which will come as advanced work in this department. This plan will be put in operation by William T. Cromie, instructor in physical education, and will become as much a part of the regular college work as the course in gymnastics is at present. All students will be required to take it, with the option of selecting that branch of athletics which they desire or in which they are most proficient.

Digitized by c^ooQie
951

A passing mark must be made in the examinations in sports just the same as in gymnasium work, and intracollege competitive games will be arranged for each branch. Sports are arranged in reference to seasons with the following tables to show which the student may select:

October—Rowing, tennis.

November—Cross- country, track, gym team, football, swimming, fencing, basketball.

December—Cross-country, track, gym team, soccer, basketball, wrestling.

January and February—Track, gym, boxing, fencing, basketball, baseball, wrestling.

March—Track, gym, boxing, fencing, rowing, wrestling.

April—Same as March, with golf or cricket.

May—Rowing, walking, tennis, golf, cricket.

The present plan is to attempt to grade the various forms of athletic exercise so that men in their two final years may elect some form of progressive exercise without necessarily being able to qualify as a member of the squad preparing for intercollegiate competition. To give this work an educational character certain practical examinations must be required following definite instruction. Failure to pass these would count as a condition.

Men who select basketball, for instance, will be divided into teams and will play two games each week, the class leader in this subject being the referee, and he will report the results of games as well as the membership of the teams. This would provide play for 144 men and a prize shield will be awarded to the winning team.

In track and field events two periods a week of one-half hour or more will be required under supervision of an instructor in place of the three periods of unsupervised work as at present. The periods will correspond with the regular gymnasium classes. In the spring the work will be conducted out of doors and intracollege meets will be held with definite requirements to constitute a passing mark. The following table shows these marks for third and fourth year students:

3d.	4th.

100 yards................................. 0:11.3	0:11.1

220 yards................................. 0:23.2	0:22.3

440 yards................................. 0:65	0:61

880 yards................................. 2 :^o	2 :20

One mile.................................. 6 :oo	5 40

High hurdles.............................. 0 :19.2	0:18.3

High jump................................. 4 ft. 6 in.	4 ft. 9	in.

Hammer ................................... 60 ft.	80 ft.

Shot ..................................... 24 ft.	28 ft.

Pole vault................................ 7 ft. 6 in.	8 ft. 4	in.

Broad jump................................ 15 ft.	16 ft. 8	in.

Digitized by
952

Students must pass in three events, including both track and field events, to enter the third work and to pass the final examination must pass three track and two field or vice versa.

In the fall men choosing cross-country running will be taken out by the class leader, who will keep-account of the attendance and also set a moderate pace for a moderate distance. Three runs will be held daily, with two runs a week required. In walking a series of graded walks will be taken, with the short walks on Wednesdays and long one Saturdays. Swimming will be arranged with regular tests for juniors and seniors, with a final test in practical work.

To carry out this plan there will be an addition to the present force of seventy-five class leaders, so that there will be leaders in every branch of sport, and these will receive an insignia similar to those now awarded in gymnastics, with the same examination requirements for certificates in physical education.

BOOK REVIEW.

The Meaning of Evolution, by Samuel Christian Schumacher, Ph. D., Professor of the biological sciences at the West Chester State Normal School. Published by the MacMillan Co. 300 pages 5Yz by in inches, and illustrations. Price $1.25.

The author presents in his characteristically interesting and logical manner and free from technical terminology, the history and development of the thought that has lead to our belief in evolution with a discussion of its cardinal principles,—heredity, variation, multiplication and natural selection. These are illustrated by familiar every-day examples which bring these facts clearly and definitely to .the mind of his reader. The book also endeavors to harmonize the apparently increasing contradictions between the latest doctrines of science and theology.

Public Health in Springfield, Illinois, by Franz Schneider, Jr., New York City, May, 1915. Price 25 cents. Published by the Russel Sage Foundation, New York.

This report is based on a thorough survey of public health,— in general the most complete yet made by the Department of Surveys and Exhibits of the Sage Foundation. The discussions of vital statistics and communicable diseases are fuller than those contained in the Topeka report. This report also contains a comprehensive survey of the tuberculosis situation by Dixon Van Blarcom, of the National ’Association for the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis, and some interesting material relating to the venereal diseases. The report is 159 pages in length, is indexed, and is illustrated with 14 maps, 38 charts and 27 photographs. The report is the fifth of the ten reports grouped under the title, “The Springfield Survey.” It will be of great interest not only to persons interested in social welfare but to all teachers.

Digitized by CaOOQle