PUBLISHED MONTHLY.—SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.00 PER YEAR.

/

Vol. 13.

JUNE, 1906.

No. 148

Editorial Committee :

Dl. E. H. ARNOLD. New Haveni Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Director, Public Schools, Indianapolis, Ind. DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wia.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760— 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

THE INTRODUCTION OF MANUAL LABOR AS A SYSTEM OF EXERCISE IN EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS (1825-1835).

By FRED EUGENE LEONARD, Oberlin College.

II.

THE story of the ONEIDA INSTITUTE OF SCIENCE AND | INDUSTRY is best given in the words of its founder, Rev. George W. Gale, written in reply to questions proposed by the Secretary of the American Education Society, and published in the organ of that society in November of 1829.* He was led to adopt the plan of uniting manual labor with study by “the opinion that it would tend to preserve the lives and health of young men of the highest promise, especially of those designed for the ministry; that it would increase greatly the facilities of education by reducing expenses, and that it would operate no less favorably upon the health and character of this class of students, rendering them robust, energetic, and ‘able to endure hardness’. .

* Sec the Quarterly Register and Journal of the American Education Society, Vol. II, pp. 112-115.

Digitized by C.ooQle
•

“The Spring of 1826 was thought to be a favorable opportunity to commence the plan. As I had suffered almost the entire wreck of my constitution and health from the same system that has destroyed so many of your beneficiaries, and which this is designed to remedy, and being on a little farm in the town of Western, in this county, for the benefit of my health it was thought best that I should make the experiment. I accordingly offered eight young men their board, washing, and lodging if they would engage to labor three and a half hours per day. I did not expect their labor would be a compensation, but I wished to hold out to them such inducements as would dispose them to engage with alacrity in the business. As plain living was to be a part of the plan I was satisfied, although many thought otherwise, that I should not lose much except my time and labor, for which I expected a full remuneration in the pleasure which I should derive. The event justified my expectations. After gathering the fruits of our labor in the fall we had, from fourteen acres of land and a kitchen garden, 350 bushels of sound corn, about seventy bushels of oats and peas, and about the same quantity of potatoes, fifteeu bushels of onions and other kinds of vegetables in abundance for the family. In addition to this there were cut and drawn to my door, from a lot one mile distant, twenty-five cords of wood. One of the students, being in poor health when he came, soon left. Another who was a tailor by trade pursued his business in the shop for the most part, so that I had only six laborers; and these it was judged in the fall had not labored upon an average more than three hours per day. They were with me about eight months.”

“In the latter part of the succeeding winter the plan was laid before the Oneida Presbytery, and received their unanimous approbation; and steps were immediately taken for the establishment of this Academy. . . About two thousand dollars were soon raised, and the farm now occupied, containing 114 acres, was purchased for $5,358 and teachers appointed, who entered upon the 1st of May, 1827. . . The farm is furnished by the Trustees with everything necessary for conducting it,

i.	e., teams, stock, carts, wagons, and all the implements of husbandry, together with all the table and kitchen furniture, etc. The instructors are to have all they can make from the farm, and be responsible for all committed to them, and to return it in as good condition as it was recieved. They are to board all the students they can employ for the labor, of not less than three or more than four hours per day, and to be paid fifty cents a week for instructing. The teachers run all the hazard of loss of every kind, provide a farmer and steward, gardener, etc., direct and govern the school according to their own discretion, subject however to the inspection of the Trustees and to be removed at their pleasure. The first year there were about twenty students. More could not be received for want of house room. Not far from forty acres were cultivated in the ordinary way of farming. Board was provided in the family of one of the teachers, and the farming directed by them with the aid of a day laborer. The proceeds of the farm exceeded the expenses by about $150, but provision was to be made for the coming year, so that the only compensation was the tuition money of twenty students, and the board of one of their families.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
-99-

“The second year there were thirty students. This year about fifty acres were cultivated, with a considerable increase of gardening. . . . But. . in consequence of the wetness of the season and the overflowing of the river (the farm has the Mohawk river on one side and the Sadequetta creek on the other) . . the proceeds of the farm . . did not . . meet the expenses. The teachers only, however, suffered the loss. The want of a farmer and steward were deeply felt . . . Accordingly the business of boarding and directing the farm was committed to a family employed by the teachers. The farmer receives the land from them upon tbe same terms that they receive it from the Trustees, except that the teachers are still responsible and receive a portion of the proceeds of the farm to indemnify them. . . The proceeds of the present [third] year have convinced us that in this place we can eventually afford business to as many young men as it is best to have in one institution. . . The number of students who will receive their board for their services is about forty, including a few who have places in town. . . All kinds of labor usual on a farm or garden have been performed during the season by the students, /. e., from the first of April to the last of November. . . We are now erecting a mechanic shop fifty feet by thirty, and as we are expecting to commence building early in the spring the institution can furnish various kinds of business, such as planing boards and making window-frames, during the winter. This will serve as a good introduction to other business in future.”

“The time spent in labor . . is upon an average three and a half hours. . . This is performed, during the summer months, one half before breakfast and the rest before supper; in the fall, before dinner instead of the morning, and the rest before supper. Some have thought it would be better to do all the work at once, and on many accounts it would, but in our opinion it would not serve so well as a system of exercise for the students. The school is divided into classes for labor. These are directed by a monitor, chosen by the class and nominated by the teachers. The monitors receive orders from the farmer, direct the class, keep the time of each one’s labor, and report delinquencies if there be any. . . No student who came here in good health has been afflicted with any of those complaints which usuallj' affect students, especially if they have been accustomed to active life. On the contrary, some who came here thus afflicted have been entirely restored. . . As a general thing I do not think it [progress in study] has been impeded by the labor . . and in some cases it has been promoted unquestionably. . . The saving . . to each student, if we calculate his board to be worth $1.25 per week, is for the thirty two weeks in which labor is furnished $40. . . Labor is required of every student. Neither the amount nor kind . . is optional, nor the time of performing it.” No very great difficulties have thus far been encountered. “The duties of labor and study need to be adjusted, and here may be an occasion of dissatisfaction, not only among students but between the farmer and teachers. On all these subjects this institution has been highly favored. A more harmonious school of this size is seldom found. . . The students are as cheerful and apparently as happy as any others, and . . as diligent. Indeed, this is the class of young men that may be expected

Digitized by ^ooQle
-100-

to choose for themselves an institution of this description. . . The prospect of its permanence has been growing brighter yearly.”

Rev. Elias Cornelius, the secretary of the. American Education Society, who visited the Oneida Institute in the summer of 1829, thought that he had “rarely seen a company of young men in any institution, or place, more healthy, vigorous, or cheerful than the members of this academy.” During the following year, it is said, five hundred applicants were refused admission, for want of room; and an item printed in May of 1833 gives seventy as the number of pupils attending at that time, three fourths of them entirely dependent on their own efforts for the means of education.

Detailed accounts of THE MECHANICAL ASSOCIATION OF ANDOVER THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY were published in the American Quarterly Register* for October, 1827, October 1828* and November, 1829. From these authentic sources the following connected story of the experiment has b£en arranged. “The fact that the health of so many students had been injured, if not wholly destroyed, by a neglect of regular, systematic exercise, led to the formation of the plan. It was originally adopted solely for the purpose of invigorating and preserving health, without any reference to pecuniary profit. . . In the summer of 1827 a number of students . . formed themselves into a society, and with the advice of two or three gentlemen deeply interested in the cause of education applied to some of the citizens of Boston for aid to procure a few sets of planes, and a little supply of other necessary joiner’s tools. The sum of nearly two hundred dollars was obtained—sufficient to furnish a shop for the accommodation of thirteen or fourteen persons at once. By organizing so that two could work at the same bench, succeeding each other, we were able to enlarge the society to the number of twenty-eight.” Membership was voluntary, but those who joined placed themselves under the obligations of a written constitution. Among its twenty-three articles were the following:	“. . . 2) The object of the

Association shall be the promotion of health, and vigor both of body and mind, by a regular system of mechanical exercise. . . 10) It shall be the duty of monitors to collect a fine of twelve and a half cents for every absence, and six and a quarter cents for every tardiness; unless the delinquent assign to them one of the following excuses, viz. sickness, absence from town, or company from abroad. . . 16) Every member shall labor for the Association one and a half hours each day (except Saturday, when only one hour shall be required) at such hours as may be specified by resolutions and by-laws. . .”

“A professed mechanic was obtained, who received a fixed compensation for his services and devoted his whole time to the business of the workshop, as superintendent and agent. A building was provided and fitted up with the necessary apparatus. The association was divided into two companies, and each division labored three times a day, before

* This is the title of the fourth and later volumes. Volumes I—III bore the titles, successively, of the Quarterly Journal, Quarterly Register and Journal, and Quarterly Register, of the American Education Society. The references are to Vol. I, pp. 17-20 and 123-124, and Vol. II, pp. 64 and 107—110.
-101-

ipeals, a half hour each time, except Saturday, when they labored but twice. Monitors were appointed to note tardiness and absences, and fines were inflicted in case of delinquency. The work was laid out for every student by the superintendent, and the articles manufactured were disposed of by him for the benefit of the association. With these avails, and with the earnings of the superintendent in other ways, a treasury was formed, from which the superintendent in the first place was to be paid, and the remainder, should there be any, was to be applied or divided as the association should direct. Thus the association proceeded through the summer [1827], and no recitation or other exercise in the seminary was more regularly or constantly attended by the students during the whole term than this. The result has more than answered their expectations. Each member of the association has had more than one hundred hours of systematic and profitable exercise, leaving him time for other kinds of recreation if he has desired to have them. The effect has been happy both upon the health and spirits of the members, and they have been enabled to pursue their studies with greater pleasure and advantage. More than two thousand boxes of various descriptions, besides chests, bedsteads, tables and other articles of furniture have been manufactured, and have found a ready sale under the direction of the superintendent. A sufficient sum has thus been earned to pay the wages of the superintendent and to purchase stock, leaving a balance in favor of the association of $118, most of which has been expended in the purchase of tools. Such has been the result of a single term. . .”

“No doubt is entertained of the practicability of the plan, either by the students or the superintendent. At a meeting of the Board of Trustees at the close of the term [fall of 1827] the members of the association presented a petition for a larger and more convenient edifice, to be used as a workshop, with a view to the accommodation of a larger number of students. The Trustees . . authorized the erection of a building for this purpose, at an expense not exceeding $2,000. The following are some of the advantages which it is thought this plan of exercise possesses. 1) It is not liable to interruption from changes of weather. 2) It requires little or no change of dress. 3) It is not very expensive. 4) It is efficacious. Much of the labor consists in sawing and planing, both of which exercise the chest and limbs. 5) It imparts a knowledge of a useful art; of an art, which to some, especially to missionaries, may be serviceable in after life. 6) It is capable of yielding a pecuniary profit to those who are indigent. 7) The student has no care or responsibility beyond what is necessary in taking the exercise itself. . .”

The article published in October of 1828 adds that the $2,000 granted by the trustees was expended “in the erection of a stone building, sixty feet by thirty-five, and three stories high. The lowest floor is appropriated to the storage of boards and timber, and the use of turning lathes. The second and third floors are occupied by work benches, of which there are enough for more than fifty workmen at one time... Besides the rooms already mentioned, one next to the roof is a spacious depository of the products of our work. The principal of

Digitized by CaOOQle
-102-

these are boxes (for wholesale dealers in various kinds of merchandise* such as candles, soap, hardware, etc.), bedsteads and hay-rakes. . . The advantages peculiar of this kind of exercise are unfailing interest in something useful to be accomplished, sufficiently active exertion, and a regularity perfectly secure from interruptions. . .” In September of 1829 Rev. Elias Cornelius, at the request of the Mechanical Association, delivered a discourse at Andover on the “Union of Study with Useful Labor.” He informed his hearers that during the last year seventy young men belonging to that organization had labored regularly in its workshops. “An unusual degree of health has been enjoyed by the members of the association, and a few who had been nearly laid aside by feeble health have been so far invigorated as to pursue their studies with advantage. The earnings have been sufficient to defray the first cost of the materials manufactured, to purchase additional instruments, and to pay two professed mechanics whose joint wages have amounted to $2.34 per day, besides leaving in the treasury at the close of the present term between two and three hundred dollars to be divided among the members of the association. At the end of three years the interest which the plan has awakened remains unabated. . .”

The original three periods into which the one and a half hours of daily exercise had been divided were afterwards reduced to two,— three quarters of an hour before dinner and another period of the same length before supper, all the members working together. Soon after the address just mentioned the president of the association wrote that progress in study had in no case been impeded, and in many greatly promoted. “No serious difficulties have as yet occurred, nor can we at present anticipate any.” The American Quarterly Register for February of 1831 refers to the plan as “eminently useful,“ and again in May of the same year notes that “the manual labor system is in very successful operation.” On the 27th of the September following Dr. Edward Reynolds of Boston addressed the Mechanical Association “On the Necessity of Physical Culture to Literary Men, and especially to Clergymen.”

The new system of “profitable exercise” was widely heralded, and by powerful advocates. It received the cordial support of men who were leaders in the educational world; important societies became its champions; and by special reports and through the columns of influential periodicals the public was supplied with information concerning its nature and rapid spread. Rev. Elias Cornelius, from 1826 until 1832 the Secretary of the American Education Society, was one of the earliest and ablest supporters of the plan to unite labor with study, and made the Quarterly Journal of the Society (afterwards known as the “American Quarterly Register”) a medium for the expression of his convictions and a storehouse of facts regarding the various attempts to put the plan in actual operation. His Andover address*, to which allusion has already been made, is perhaps the best single statement of the advantages and importance of agricultural and mechanical labor as a system of exercise, together with a summary of experiments then in progress, that has come down to us from that period.

* “Union of Study with Useful Labor.” Published in the Quarterly Register and Journal of the American Education Society, Vol. II, pp. 57-70 (1829, November).

Digitized by Google
-103-

The American Education Society was organized in Boston August 29, 1815, and incorporated on December 4th of the following year.* Its object was “to bring forward year by year worthy and well-educated men for the work of the Christian ministry.” In their thirteenth Annual Report* the Board of Directors have this to say in favor of what was beginning to be known as the Manual Labor System: ‘‘The early graves of thirty young men, once under the patronage of the American Education Society, who fell the victims of disease before their preparatory studies were completed, and the failure of nearly as many more to enter the ministry in consequence of a loss of health, afford melancholy proof that something should be done to render studious habits less injurious, particularly to young men who have been previously devoted to active pursuits. No method promises so effectually to guard against this evil as a course of systematic and vigorous bodily exercise. Experience has proved that young men may devote from two to four hours of each daj' to labor, either agricultural or mechanical, without retarding in the least their progress in stud}’, and with the prospect of maintaining vigorous health, as well as of earning something to defray the necessary expenses of an education... The Directors.. cannot doubt that if a farm or workshop, or both, were appended to every academy, college, and seminary in the land, and placed under such regulations as to secure the regular and cheerful attention of indigent young men who have been accustomed in early life to labor, the sacrifice of health and life which is now the cause of so much lamentation would in a great measure cease. . .”

It was to be expected that William C. Woodbndge, upon assuming the editorship of the “American Annals of Education and Instruction,” would make that journal in some sense the organ of the movement which his letters from Hofwyl had done so much to inaugurate; and in fact the earlier volumes, beginning in August of 1830, may be said to dispute this honor with the “American Quarterly Register/' They form one of the principal sources of information relating to the progress of the manual labor system.	(To	be concluded.)

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—AVe have received the announcement of the Lake Geneva Summer School of the Y. M. C. A. (Seventeenth Year); the term begins July 4th,

1906.	The department of physical training has laid out a very comprehensive program that offers ample opportunities for advanced students.

—We are also in possession of Mr. J. Bolin’s Announcement of the Fourth Annual Course in Therapeutic Gymnastics and Massage. 1906—

1907.

—It is with profound regret that we note the resignation of Dr.

G.	W. Fitz as editor of the American Physical Education Review. Dr. Fitz has worked hard in the interest of the A. P. E. A.

* Quoted in the Quarterly Register and Journal of the American Education Society, Vol. II, pp. 18-20 (1829, August).

Digitized by Google
-104-

HOW TO LEARN SWIMMING.

A NEW AND EASY METHOD.

By ALEXANDER STURROCK., Gymnastic Instructor, Dundee, Scotland.

OUNG children, on being taught to swim in a swimming bath, and

and more especially in the sea itself, are sure to suffer from fright and nervousness. In these circumstances it is quite certain that they will make very little progress; they will be too much confused and frightened to cany out efficiently the directions of the instructor, whether teacher or parent, and, so far from enjoying the exercise, it is likely that they will come to detest it. Swimming, in short, instead of being a pleasure and an advantage, will be a thing to be dreaded.

To a large extent these results may be avoided if parents could teach their children the various strokes and positions of the body at home. This can be most easily done by placing the child on a revolving piano stool, and the following directions with accompanying pictures are intended to show how swimming may be taught by this method. When the exercises have been thoroughly mastered on the piano stool they may be repeated in a bath with a piece of wood placed across it on which the child may rest. .

First place the child on the piano stool (as shown in Figure I), the chest well out, the back arched, the head thrown well back so that it is almost in line with the feet. When this position lias been assumed begin the motions with the hands. Make the child stretch out his arms as far as possible, turn the hands at an angle and strike them sharply backwards, keeping them down a little, with the elbows straight. When he is able to do the hand motion fairly well, instruct him in the motions of the feet and legs and then in the hand and feet motion, which at first will be found to be very difficult.

The child must bend the legs, keeping the knees as far apart as possible, and then draw them straight forward with the feet bent downwards and the heels together till the thigh is at right angles with the body. He must then kick both feet out till the legs are straight and. drawing up the legs again till the soles of the feet meet, kick the feet out as before. The stroke of the legs should be alternate with the hand stroke. These exercises should be performed with great care as it is important that the child should conquer the motions properly at the very beginning.

The easiest method of floating is to lie on the back, chest well out, hands behind head till thumbs meet, palms upwards, feet hanging down a little, the knees kept almost level with the face (as shown in Figure II). This is a rather difficult balancing movement, especially when bringing the arms round sideways to the front of the body. Repeat by throwing the hands to first position. Care should be taken to breathe through the nostrils.

Another useful motion consists in lying very stiffly on the piano stool with head well up and propelling the hands at the sides of the legs; and another in drawing up the feet alternately, keeping the back stiff, and breathing as in the previous exercise.

Lie on the left side (as shown in Figure III), the right hand ex-

Digitized by Google
-105-

tended in front, bending the fingers at the joints and forming a cavity with the hand, the left elbow bent at the left side. Now draw up the feet and force them back, at the same time throwing out the left hand in front and drawing back the right. By this alternate movement of arms and legs the body will turn on the left side a little when the right hand is propelling. In performing this exercise the teacher or parent should keep a hold of the child in case he falls off the piano stool.

The pupil should be placed on his back on the stool, with the hands thrown out behind (as shown in Figure IV). Then the hands should be circled round to the side with the palms downwards and the knees drawn up till they are almost level with the face. Repeat by throwing the hands up over the head, and then move the hands and legs together. The pupil may now be put on the piano stool on his back (as shown in Figure V). Back swimming is a splendid developer for the muscles of the arms and, if persisted in, will strengthen them to an unexpected degree, as the child will soon discover for himslf if he pays attention to these directions. There are other movements which can be practiced on the piano stool, such as the overhand and the trudgeon (as shown in Figure VI).

When the child has thoroughly acquired the movements on the piano stool he majr be put into the bath to practice the movements there. Holding on to a rod fixed across the bath he may practice the leg

Digitized by Google
-106-

jnovement for the breast* stroke and also the other movements described above. By this method not only may the art of swimming be acquired, but at the same time the muscles of the arms and legs will be immensely benefited, and incidentally, also the lungs, and indeed the whole body. Children should, of course, wear loosely fitting clothing when practicing these exercises.	,

While the exercises are primarily intended for children, they are, of course, quite suitable for adults, who will benefit by them just as much. Parents who put their children through these exercises will have the pleasure of seeing them take a keen delight in bathing and swimming when they go to the seaside at holiday time. Those who live in country places where there are no public swimming baths will find them specially useful.

CHARACTERISTICS IN THE TRAINING OF THE BLIND.

A well regulated system of physical exercise has come to be one of the principal factors in the education of the blind. The blind as a class are inclined to inactivity, unless some force or interest is brought to bear to arouse their physical being. It is difficult to make any statement that will apply to all. There is a vast difference between them from the kindergartner, who cannot co-ordinate well enough to button a coat, or tie a shoe string, to the oldest high school pupil, who can do the most difficult co-ordination exercises.

In the first place let me enumerate some of the peculiarities of these unfortunate pupils. Blindness is often caused by some constitutional defect, that not only affects the eyes, but often causes poor health, marked physical defects, and weak and diseased minds as well. A number of our younger pupils apparently have no power either to learn, or to retain what is learned, some of these remaining in the kindergarten five, six or eight years without promotion. Others seem to have no moral conscience. It can be said that sensitiveness and suspiciousness are among the principal peculiarities of blind persons. As a matter of fact this is very natural. For instance, let a seeing person come into the room, and whisper or laugh with another, and if the child does not know the cause of their mirth, he is liable to suspect that he is an object of ridicule.

From our point of view, however, their physical defects are of much more interest. The most common of these are flat-foot, round shoulders, combined with flat chest, spinal curvature, and head carried too far forward. Several pupils, when very much interested or in the least excited, have the habit of wringing the hands, or rolling the head in a peculiar circular movement, and some boys sway their bodies forward and backward in a most distressing manner. *It is said that before a regular system of physical training was established here that these peculiarities were much more pronounced.

But there is a brighter side. “May we have a nice game to-day?” cry some of the little tots as they come to the gymnasium for their daily lesson. Soon they are romping and laughing, and enjoying life as though they had never had any terrible affliction. Games play a most
-107-

important part in the training of these pupils. The first awakening of the “physical conscience” to a great extent is due to the development of the game instinct. The ethical side of a child’s nature is brought out to such an extent that he learns to give and expect fair play in all things. A respectful consideration for others in a child is a “consummation devoutly to be wished.” The following is a list of some of the games that are used here:

Statues.

Guess-ball.

Blind cow.

Passing bean-bag. Passing Indian clubs. Last couple out.

Poison snake.

Cat and mouse. Ruth and Jacob. Black and white. Stick struggle. Tug-’o-war.

In many of these games, the ones who can see help those who are totally blind. Time and space will not permit me to describe in detail the game problem for the blind, therefore I will leave this question for farther investigation.

The pupils are able to march very well by placing the hands on the shoulders of the one in front, and when marching side by side, by clasping hands at the side of the thigh, or by crossing the arms to the second one beyond. A partly seeing pupil is placed every third or fourth one in the line, and in this way many difficult and beautiful tactic movements are learned. This joining of hands makes the spaces absolutely correct, and makes the class present a very pleasing appearance. In most other respects the class goes through with a lesson very much as a seeing class would, doing calisthenic exercises and all kinds of apparatus work. When it comes to balance exercises, blind pupils are sadly lacking. Let the reader close his eyes for a moment and try a common balance exercise bv raising the right leg backward and bending the trunk forward: now raise the left heel. Try the same with the eyes open, and notice how much easier it is to maintain the balance the latter way. Thus it is easy to understand the handicap that the blind must constantly overcome. Working on the theory that a straighter and more graceful carriage can be obtained by the emplov-ment of a large variety of balance exercises, I make them a prominent feature of the lesson. The gymnasium is well equipped with parallel bars, horse, poles, horizontal bar, rings, and ladder, dumbbells, wands, and Indian clubs. They use all the apparatus that the average seeing class is accustomened to.

In a few cases the judgment of direction is rather vague, especially among the class of feeble minded children referred to above. They do not seem to be able to distinguish between forward and sideward and upward. It is pitiful to see the absolute lack of power to co-ordinate well enough to do the simplest exercises correctly. Then is patience truly a virtue.

The oldest classes do wonderfully well in all gymnastic work. Most of these pupils are anxious to perfect themselves at least as far as their bodies are concerned. I believe they are more enthusiastic about their work than the average seeing students. At the beginning of the school

Digitized by CjOOQle
-108-

year all the principal measurements are taken of the boys, and as a rule they remember most of the measurements during the summer vacation, and are ready to tell how much they have gained or lost when they come back in the fall. Only the height, weight and lung capacity of the girls are recorded, but each girl must have the consent of the physician attending the institution before attempting to do gymnasium work. Sixty percent of the whole were found to have good muscular development. A little less than half of these are farmers’ sons and daughters, and these are almost invariably well equipped for physical work.

Wrestling and jiu-jitsu have an important place on the program, and there is great rivalry among the boys to determine who is-the best man. The popularity of this type of sport is because:

1st, The strong combative, or competitive element is present.

2nd, To engage in this sport it is not necessary that they should see, for they can control their movements entirely by sense of touch, and

3rd, It is more exciting and v;olent exercise than the}’ get in any other way.

In passing it might be well to speak of the discipline that is maintained in this institution. Most of the pupils have been very much spoiled and “babied” at home by loving and over-indulgent parents and friends, and when forced to obey the rules, they often feel that they are improperly treated. But treatment such as one would give a seeing qhild is truly a kindness to them, for at best they are up against a hard proposition when they are thrown upon their own resources, and many pupils are without a home to go to. Not being able to see makes the blind child inclined to talk at all times and under any con-ditions, and if they were not restrained at times, they would become a howling mob. Let us take a glimpse into the dining room for a moment, where two hundred pupils dine at the same time. There the stranger’s attention is first called to the bright, animated conversation that is-everywhere apparent. Parents are especially over-indulgent or ignorant in regard to what the child should eat, and how he should eat it. But few learn to eat properly before they come to school. One of the causes of faulty posture is the way in which they sit at the table, leaning over the plate, the better to transfer the food to the mouth without spilling it. Those who can see a little are apt to be worse in this respect than those who can not see at all, because they lean forward and downward with the eyes near the plate in order to see the food they are eating. Of course they are constantly reminded to sit up straight, but long established habits are hard to break even in the young, unless the cause is removed. But good results are beginning to-show in the standing as well as in the sitting posture of students.

The gymnasium work is compulsory. In making up classes the physical ability and fitness of a student is considered entirely, and classes are not arranged according to the school grade or class to which the pupil belongs. Therefore most of the classes can not meet during regular school hours, but the best results are obtained in bring-ing together pupils with aproximately the same physical capabilities because a pupil is not forced to try to do exercises beyond his ability-
-109-

Those who have been blind only a short time are more afraid to nm and romp freely about than those who have been blind for a longer period. Some of the older boys are surprisingly fearless while on the apparatus. A fly-away or giant swing would be attempted if the director were but to give the word. Two accidents have resulted from the gymnasium work this year. One boy fractured both bones of the forearm while working on the horse. Another walked into the end of one of the parallel bars, striking the eye and causing him to loose what little sight he had before the accident. Of course bruises frequently need attention, but as a rule the blind are indifferent to the ordinary bump.

It is a difficult question to decide whether blind boys do better work on the apparatus than seeing boys with the same amount of training. I am rather inclined to answer in the affirmative. Here there are all degrees of proficiency, from the best, who can do levers, fly-aways, etc., to the “impossible” ones, who can not do the simplest exercises. Of course some can not be made to take any interest in the work; others are eager for a chance to learn a new “stunt,” and still others who are willing enough to try if one gets them started. So many seeing boys spend all their spare time in the gymnasium throw-* ing a basket ball. The blind boys overcome their handicap to a certain extent by practicing on apparatus, or with clubs, or at wrestling. It is often difficult to explain or briefly to describe a movement on apparatus, and sometimes it is necessary for the director or squad leader to take the proper posture, to let the line pass by and feel the position of the different parts of the body. But let them once learn a movement thoroughly and they are not liable to forget it.

The boys and girls are not permitted to associate at this school. Dances are given for the pupils each week; one for the boys and one for the girls. The visitor finds it hard to realize at the first glance that this happy party is composed mostly of blind children. But few collisions occur, and these have never resulted in more than the every-day bump. It is gratifying to see the improvement this dancing makes in blind pupils; it improves health, developes grace and ease of carriage, and I may say, raises the moral tone.

In winter, as a means of out-door recreation, skating parties are indulged in, and great pleasure is derived in this healthful form of amusement.

The necessity for a careful graded course of physical training for the blind is no longer questioned, but those in authority are too apt to look at this phase of their education as a side issue, or an unimportant detail in the routine, instead of making it one of the principal factors in the training of the blind.

Harold G. Powell, Physical Director,

State School for the Blind, Jacksonville, 111.

—We acknowledge receipt of Bulletin of the Tulane University of Louisiana, 1905—1906. The interest in physical training must be rather latent in the sunny South, judging by the number of normal school students in that department. The class consists of only two students.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-110-

GYMNASTICS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA.

By HOMER CURTIS, Assistant Instructor.

ACTING on the theory that physical education of her undergraduates deserved equal attention with their mental and moral education, the trustees of the University of Pennsylvania have made the work in physical training obligatory upon students as follows: (A minimum of two hours per week from October to May) For students in the College Department all four years; students in the Medical Department, first two years; students in the Law, Dental and Veterinary-Medical Department, first year. The trustees have also decreed that no student may take part in athletic contests unless he is pronounced physically fit to do so by the Director of Physical Training.

These rules result in bringing over a thousand men to the gym-nasium for two half hour periods weekly from October to May, while nearly a thousand more spend the two periods in some elective sport. Since a large proportion of these men have a poor development, and have had little training, the work of the first year is of the simplest character. The day's order begins with a body building drill arranged with regard to its hygienic and corrective effects and includes elementary instruction with the bells, wands, and clubs. For work upon the apparatus the class is then divided into three divisions, each under an instructor, and each division is divided up into six squads of five or six men, each squad under a student leader. There are six sets of each kind of apparatus arranged in three groups, one at either end and one in the middle of the floor. This allows six squads to work independently and without confusion or loss of time. The apparatus fits into floor sockets and is readily inter-changeable. For small classes or games the floor is divided into three areas by dropping nets from the ceiling. Five minutes are spent upon each piece of apparatus, and then each division proceeds on the run to the next piece of apparatus. In this time each squad has performed from two to three exercises left and right, making in all from four to six exercises on the apparatus.

This year the classes have only been able to take elementary apparatus work, as with the exception of a few weeks at the end of last season this is the first year's training of all the classes. The lesson ends with a game or run, finishing in time to allow a swim in the plunge before the next college hour begins.

Since April 1st the classes have been held out of doors on Franklin Field. In this work, after the drill, sprinting, hurdling, jumping and shot putting, etc. take the place of apparatus work. On May 4th a combined drill of all the classes will be given on the field to illustrate to the public just what kind of work is being done.

This is probably the first event of its kind ever held by a university, but it will be an annual one here.

The program is as follows:

PROGRAM.

Conducted by J. Leonard Mason, Instructor in Gymnastics. Assisted by F. Homer Curtis and John Pardue, Assistant Instructors in Gymnastics, and twelve Class Leaders.

Digitized by

Google
-111-PART I.

1.	Running class formation.

2.	Gymnastic drill in lour parts: (1) Fiee movements for development of trunk,

back, shoulders and chest. (2) Boxing movements. (3) Elementary dancing steps. (4) Slow respiratory movements.

3.	Running wheel in four division0, ending with class formation for Part II.

PART II.

ATHLETIC EXERCISES, CLASS IN FIVE DIVISIONS.

1.	The start in sprinting.

2.	Clearing the low hurdles (2 feet 6 inches).

3.	Three standing jumps.

4>. Putting 12-pound shot.

5. Running high jump.

Final—March.

FXTEXSION DRILL.

GROUP I.

Music. Time: two counts for each movement; pause sixteen counts between groups.

Exercise 1.

Exercise 2. Exercise 3.

Exercise 4. Exercise 5. Exercise 3.

a)	Lunge obliquely forward left; arms in left extension obliquely forward left.

b)	Attention. 16 times.

Repeat Ex. 1 to R. sixteen times.

a)	Lunge obliquely backward R., with *4 right turn; arms in right extension obliquely backward R.

b)	Attention. 16 times.

Repeat Ex*. 3 to L. sixteen times.

Alternate Ex. 1 and 3 sixteen times.

U	11	*) (	t	^	11	it

GROUP II.

Exercise 1.

Exercise 2. Exercise 3.

Exercise 4. Exercise 5.

Exercise 6.

a)	Stride sideward L.; flex arms.

b)	Bend trunk forward; thrust downward to toes.

c)	Return to a.

d)	Attention. Sixteen times.

Repeat Ex. 1 to R. sixteen times.

a)	Stride sideward L.; flex arms.

b)	Bend trunk backward, look up and thrust upward.

c)	Return to a.

d)	Attention.

Repeat Ex. 3 to R. sixteen times.

a)	Stride sideward L.; flex arms.

b)	Bend trunk sideward L.; look up, thrust L. arm downward and R. arm upward.

c)	Return to a.

dj Attention sixteen times.

Repeat Ex. 5 to R. sixteen times.

group in.

Exercise 1. a) Squat on R. foot, place hands on ground; extend L. leg sidew. L.

Digitized by U-ooQle
b) Extend R. Leg backward; extend L. arm forward, c} Return to a.

d)	Attention. Sixteen times.

Exercise 2. Repeat Ex. 1 to R. sixteen times.

Exercise 3. a) Squat on r. foot, place hands on ground, extend L. leg sideward L.

b)	Extend R. leg sideward L. to join L. leg; make Vi L. turn and place L. hand on hip.

c)	Return to a.

d)	Attention. Sixteen times.

Exercise 4. Repeat Ex. 3 to R. sixteen times.

Exercise 5. a) Squat and place hands on ground.

b)	Extend both legs backward, separating them sideward as far as possible.

c)	Return to a.

d)	Attention. Sixteen times.

—Lake Normal School, Warrenburg, Mo., gave a gymnastic exhibition.

Digitized by Google
jV\lND AND BODY. ^

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

a>CIwaii Vm, ‘WUcon alxi.

Published Monthly.

BY

SakneriptlOB Price, ft.00 per Year.

•T Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M\ D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

THE BIENNIAL CONVENTION OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION.

The “Turnerbund” (North American Gymnastic Union) is an organization governed by its members.

Once every two years the delegates from the different Districts meet in the National Convention and decide upon the future policy of the whole organization. The Executive Committee (the present one chosen from among the members of the Union residing at Indianapolis) is empowered to carry out the directions and resolutions of each National Convention within the course of each ensuing term of two years

Prior to such conventions each district calls a District Convention of the delegates of the local societies w-hich formulate instructions and select a limited number of delegates to the National Convention. In this way the demands of every societv and member, as it were, are brought before the main body of delegates to be acted upon.

This year's Convention is held at Newark, N. J., during the days from July 8th to 10th.

Connected with this Convention is a meeting of the Instructors’ Association of the Turnerbund at the same city, immediately preceding the former.

Following the Convention is held a Post-Graduate Course for the Instructors and Teachers of Gymnastics this year in Chautauqua, (see announcement in this issue) which is also open to non-members.

The legislative and administrative sessions of the Turnerbund are of vital interest to the organization and important business is usually transacted in them. This time three questions of grave concern will be laid before the delegates :

First, the question of aiding and re-establishing the local gymnastic societies of San Francisco, which have been ruined in the late calamity; secondly, the election of the Executive Committee for a new term, and thirdly, the outlining of the future progress for the Milwaukee Normal School of Gymnastics.

Considering the splendid “Turner Spirit” displayed on previous occasions there is little doubt but that some way will be found by which the first of the above problems will be solved satisfactorily. The individual and society contributions of the Turners represent already a goodly sum for the relief of the San Francisco brothcr-Turners.

The second problem presents graver difficulties. Indianapolis has been the city of the Executive Committee for a number of years, in fact longer than the Constitution of the Turnerbund warrants. But the in-

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

Digitized by

Google
-114-

divfdual members of this Committee and all of them as a body have done so excellently and worked so successfully in the interest of the organization that it is but natural when a great many delegates favor a continuation of the present incumbents.

A wide discrepancy of opinion prevails even among those that are in close touch with leading minds just in what manner in the future the N. A. G. U. Normal School should intrinsically be advanced. At present the school is run on a basis of a one year’s course. There is no doubt but that hard work is done and nobody questions the fact that the pupils receive an amount of instruction out of proportion to the short term spent at this school. It cannot be denied, however, that a two or three years’ course would accomplish far more and, what is important to the graduates, place them on an equal standing with graduates from other schools during competitions for vacancies. A one year’s course would suffice for those who intend to teach gymnastics in societies of the Turnerbund, because pupils entering this Normal School for that purpose have without exception already acquired considerable practical knowledge.

The Executive Committee has been considering the enlargement of the course, the new arrangement to begin with the new school year „	1907-8	and has formulated a plan to be submitted to the National

Convention.

It has been suggested that the intended changes include also a modification of the duties of the faculty. The arguments therefore have been as follows:

It is hardly possible for one person at the same time to have charge of gymnastics, athletics, methods, history of gymnastics, fencing, swimming, etc., and in addition to attend to the administrative duties of the institution. Consequently the pecuniary and propagandists affairs of the school are liable to suffer. No private school of any kind can succeed and become self-supporting if the important factors:

41Publicity, Agitation and Representation” are lost sight of.

No doubt these arguments are well founded. There ought to be the manager or director specially charged with the duty not only to represent in the press the school and the Turnerbund by contributing regularly to journals best suited for the purpose but also to attend meetings of such bodies as the A. P. E. A., the N. E. A., P. D. A., etc., or some other official who could oversee all details in regard to the Normal School, Summer Course, etc., and who would keep the American public in general posted on what is being done and accomplished. Such a person need not necessarily reside at the seat of the school.

The normal school of the N. A. G. II. is the oldest in the country and the “Turnerbund” has spent a considerable amount of money in maintaining it and building it up. Its hundreds of graduates count among its ranks some of the best and most reputed members of the profession, and the Turnerbund has for over 50 years done so much for physical education in this country and has on numerous occasions rereived recognition for these services that the duties entailed upon such

Digitized by LaOOQle
-115-

an officer as suggested ought to he at once easy and pleasant although it would require some sacrifice of time and money.

We are certain to voice the sentiment of a good many of our readers when we claim th#t with the present silencium cum dignitatem next to nothing is known outside of the Turnerbund of what is accomplished by the Turners at their Normal School.

A POST-GRADUATE COURSE FOR TEACHERS OF GYMNASTICS.

To be held at Chautauqua, New York, July 16 to 28, 1906.

Indianapolis, May, 1906.

THE Committee on Physical Training of the North American Gymnastic Union—Turnerbund—has arranged a Post-Graduate Course, consisting of the Theory and Practice of Gilbert Classic Dancing, Massage, Theory of Gymnastics, Instruction in the Equipment and Management of Summer Camps, Methods of Mass Instruction for Swimming in Children’s Classes, New or Valuable Gymnastic Games and Other Outdoor Recreations.

Participants in this course have the privilege of entering—-free of charge—any of the regular classes held in the Chautauqua School of Physical Education during this time. They will also be admitted to the Chautauqua grounds free of charge.

This course is open to all teachers of gymnastics—the tuition for members of the Turnerbund is $10.00; for non-members $25.00.

Participants are advised to be at Chautaqua on Saturday, July 14, in order to settle preliminaries as to rooms, board, etc.

For a list of hotels and boarding houses, or any information relating to Chautauqua, write to “Chailtauqua Institution,” Chautauqua, New York; for a catalogue of the Chautauqua School of Physical Education, write to Dr. J. W. Seaver, New Haven, Conn.; and for further information relating to the course, write to

•	William	A. Stecher,

1707 Broadway, Indianapolis, Ind.

PRLIMINARY PLAN FOR DAILY WORK.

8:00 to 9:00 Theory and Practice of Massage. Dr. Arnold.

9:15 to 10:00 Theory and Practice of Gilbert Dancing. Mr. Seuss.

10:00 to 10:45 Series of Movements for Beginners. Mr. Seuss.

10:45 to 11:45 Series of Movements for Advanced Class. Mr. Seuss.

NOON INTERMISSION.

2:00 to 3:00 Theory of Gymnastics: Analysis of Movements. Dr. Arnold (Chautauqua School of Physical Education).

3:00 to 4:00 A Series of Subjects:

1. Summer Camps for Adults and Boys.

2.	Instruction in Swimming.

3.	Lectures at the Chautauqua School of Physical Education.

4.	The Study of Recent Books Relating to Physical Training. 4:00 to 5:00 New or Valuable Gymnastic Games: Athletics on the Field of the Athletic Club; Swimming and Boating.

Digitized by LjOOQle
—110—

OUTLINE OF WORK TO BE PRESENTED.

GILBERT CLASSIC DANCING.

(a)	The elementary principles of the Polka, Schottisehe, Waltz and Mazurka.

(b)	A method of harmoniously combining the above steps with appropriate arm, head and trunk movements.

(c)	A series of easy dancing steps arranged to be given to classes standing or moving in single file, or in a column of twos. Many of these steps are so arranged that they may be given to classes standing in open order.

(d)	Series of the foregoing steps and movements arranged for exhibition purposes.

N.	B. In preparing these steps a systematic progression has been kept in view, so that they will be of benefit to advanced pupils as well as to beginners. In taking up the various steps the nature of appropriate music . for accompaniment will be explained.

Theory of Massage. The Manual of Massage, Effleurage, Petrissage, Tapot-ment; Friction; Physiological effects of each one of these movements. General contra-indications based upon physiological effects, and general indications based upon these.

Practice. The general Massage of the hand, arm, trunk, leg, neck, face and scalp. Camps. 1. Mass Encampments and Festivals.

(a)	Selection of Sites.	(e)	Food and its Preparation.

(b)	Tentage.	(f)	Government, Inspection	and Policing.

(c)	General Arrangement.	(g)	Hygienic Hints.

(d)	Sanitation.	(h)	Personal Equipment.

2.	Individual Vacation Camps for Men and Boys.

(a)	Object.	*	(f > Comfort.

(b)	Selection of Sites.	(g)	Recreation—Tramping, Field Days,

(c)	Tentage.	Aquatics, Reading and Storytelling.

(d)	Sanitation.	(h)	Hygienic Hints.

(e)	Food and its Preparation, (i)	Personal Equipment.

Swimming. 1. Mass Instruction in the Gymnasium.

(a) Free Standing Exercises, (b) Movements in the Swimming Position.

(On the Swimming Buck.)

2.	Mass Instruction in the Water.

(a) On the Short Rope.	(b)	With Floating Devices.

LECTURERS AND TEACHERS.

Mr. N. C. Seuss, Graduate of the Gilbert Normal School of Classic Dancing;

Physical Director of the North Cincinatti Turnverein.

Dr. E. H. Arnold, Director of the New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics. Capt. Herman J. Koehler, Director of Physical Training, Military Academy, West Point.

NOTE.—Capt. Koehler can not at this early date give a definitve promise to pe present. Should he be unable to come another officer will be appointed.

Mr. William A. Steelier, Director Physical Training, Public Schools. Indianapolis, Ind.

Miss Etta Kolling, Teacher of Ph\'sieal Training, Public Schools, Cincinnati Assistant to Mr. Seuss.

Suits. For the dancing work students are requested to appear as follows: Men—Gray knee trousers and shirt, black stockings, slippers; or, long gray trousers and shirt, slippers. Women—Dark blue or black gymnasium suit and slippers.

Students who can not swim and who intend to take part in the mass instruction are requested to bring their bathing suits.	*

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you f#r one year on receipt of $4..00 for 4 new subfccribers.

I
Digitized by

Google
GYMNASIUM,
UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA.
-119-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

(Continued.'

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Human Burden Race.” For an explanation of the game see the November issue of 1905. II the \veather is too warm omit the running as a preliminary and try gymnastic tactics alone.

After all have received wands march forward in a flank line from which form ranks of fours by turning 1. face (fours by the 1. flank— march!), marching down the center to location for the drill.

The two inner rows open order outw. by passing in front to two steps distance and turn to the front (about four steps are necessary). Class 1. about-face!, so that the shorter members stand in front.

WAND DRILL.

Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower!

;t TvvT t/

.....* '....'

• t

1. a) Raise heels and raise wand overh.—1! Pos.—2!

2. b) Bend knees and place wand on shoulders—1! Pos.—2!

3.	c) a and b alternately—1, 4!

2.	Toe-touch sidew. 1. and raise wand sidew. 1.—1! Pos.—2! Cross-bendkneestep bw. 1., raise wand overh. and lower sidew. downw. obi. to the r. (1. hand over 1. shoulder, r. arm sidew. downw. obi.)—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4!

3.	Turn trunk to the 1. and raise wand forw. to vertical pos., 1. hand upw., r. hand downw.—1! Pos.—2! Same r.—3, 4!

4.	Cross-toetouch forw. 1. and raise wand sidew. r.—1! Pos.—2! Lunge sidew. 1. and raise wand sidew. upw. obi. to the 1., r. hand in front of 1. shoulder—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1,4!

5.	Stride pos. forw. obi. to the 1. and raise wand overh.—1! Turn and bend trunk forw. obi. to the 1., move 1. arm downw., r. hand under 1. shoulder—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4 ! Same r.—1, 4!

Wand at r. shoulder—carry!

The class march forw. to farther end, then the leaders of rows to countermarch 1. to the other end of the gymnasium and again countermarch to starting point. Repeat, but countermarch r.

Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower!

Wand in front of shoulders—raise!

6.	a) Bend r. knee, raise 1. leg forw. and stretch arms forw.—1!.

Pos.—2 ! Same r.—3, 4! b) As a, but raise 1. leg backw. and stretch arms upw.—1, 4! Wand—down!

7.	Stride pos. backw. obi. to the 1. and raise wand overh.—1! Turn and bend trunk backw. obi. toward the 1. and lower wand behind shoulders.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4 ! Same r.—1, 4!

Wand width of shoulders—grasp!

Digitized by ^ooQle
—1*20—

8.	Raise 1. leg backw. and wand overh.—1 ! Lower wand forw. and step over the same with the 1. leg—2! As 1—3! Pos.— 4! Same r.—1 , 4!.

9.	Cross straddle jump (1. forw., r. backw.) and raise wand overh.—1! Pos.—2 ! Same opposite—3, 4! Repeat in lively rhythm 6 or 8 times.

10.	Stride pos. sidew. I. and raise wand sidew. 1.—1! Bend trunk sidew.

1.,	move wand downw., then to upw. r., 1. hand in front of r. shoulder—2! As 1—3! Pos.—!■! Same r.—1, 4!

11.	Raise wand overh.—1! Lower behind hips—21 As 1—3! Repeat 0 or 8 times.

12.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise wand forw. orerh. in four counts; exhale and lower wand forw. to starting pos. in lour counts.

Wand at r. shoulder—carry! Close ranks in reverse order to that of opening. Fours 1. (to a front line)—march! R.—face!, march forw., deposit wands and form divisions, then to respective places for apparatus work.

First Division: High horizontal	bar.

Second	44	High parallel oars.

Third	44	Flying rings.

Fourth	44	High.horizontal	ladder.

After the apparatus work reform the class into four rows for high-jump.

First Division.—High Horizontal Bar.

1.	Jump to straight arm hang, ordinary grasp, and immediately front hip circle backw. to straight arm hang, swing forw., raise both leg« upw., ankles to bar and kip (upstart) to straight arm rest, then squat forw. to holding both legs at r. angle; drop backw., squat forw. under bar and ankles to the same on the farther side, again kip (upstart) to straight arm rest and flank vault 1. to back sidestand.

2.	As ex. 1, to r. angle of both legs over bar; drop backw. and back kip twice to former pos.; again drop backw., squat forw. under bar, ankles to the same on the farther side, kip (upstart) to straight arm free front rest, free front hip circle backw. and down to front side stand.

3.	Jump to straight arm hang, ordinary grasp, swing and pull up at the first backw. swing to straight arm free front rest, free front hip circle backw. to straight arm hang, swing forw. and front hip circle backw. with extended hips (half giant swing) to front rest; drop kip and rear vault r. to cross-stand on the farther side.

4.	Jump to straight arm hang, hands in reverse grasp; swing and at the first forw. swing kip to straight arm front rest; front hip circle forw. to straight arm hang and pull up at the backw. swing to front rest; change grasp to ordinary; drop backw., ankles to bar, and underswing with half turn 1., transfer the r. hand to ordinary grasp on the farther side, swing forw., raise both legs upw., ankles to bar, kip to free front rest and immediately add front vault r. to cross stand.

5.	An exercise free for all.

Digitized by ^ooQle
-121-

Note.—If the above exercises are not executed in good form then repeat them before taking up the succeeding one.

Second Division.—High Parallel Bars.

1.	Run and jump to center of the bars to straight arm rest, swing forw. and backw., then lower to upper arm hang, swing forw., flex thighs over body, kip to straight arm rest, swing forw. and rear

vault r. with half turn r. to cross stand.

2.	As ex. 1, to upper arm hang, swing forw. and half turn over backw. with extended hips to upper arm balance; pause two or three counts, then lower backw. to straight arm rest and, as the legs swing forw., drop backw. to upper arm rest with thighs flexed over body, kip to straight arm rest, then front vault r. with half turn 1. to cross stand.

3.	As ex. 1, to upper arm hang, swing forw. and roll over backw. with extended hips, swing forw., flex thighs over body, kip to straight arm rest, swing backw. and turn over forw. to upper arm balance; pause two or three counts, then turn over sidew. to cross stand.

4.	Run and jump to upper arm hang in the center of the bars, swing forw., flex thighs over body, kip to straight arm rest, turn over forw. to upper arm balance, continue the turn over and pull up to straight arm rest at backw. swing, swing forw. and front scissors mount (V2 turn 1.) to straddle seat behind the hands; place hands in rear of thighs; roll over backw. and extend hips to upper arm balance and down to outside cross stand.

0.	Art exercise free for all.

Third Division.—Flying Rings (height of chest).

In front leaning hang.—

1.	Circle bodp r. four or five times.

2.	Pull up to bent arm hang; extend 1. arm sidew.; bend 1. arm to former pos.; down. Repeat r. Repeat 1. and r.

3.	As ex. 1, but circle 1.

4.	As 2, but extend arms forw. alt.

0.	% turn-over backw. to back hang; return in reverse order. Repeat once.

4>. Jump to dip rest 1.; down. Repeat r.; down. Repeat 1. and r. once.

7. Jump to dip rest with both arms, then extend arms to rest; down.

’ Repeat once.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Fourth Division.—High Horizontal Ladder.

In front cross hang, hands in outside grasp on the beams.—

1.	Raise both knees upw., then place both feet on the first round distant from the hands; lower and repeat; down.

2.	As ex. 1, but with inside grasp on the beams as a starting pos., then extend the legs alternately in line with the trunk (parallel with the ladder) several times; down.

3.	Hang as in ex. 1, raise both knees upw.; circle the I. leg over the

Digitized by CjOOQle
1.	beam and place the 1. foot over the nearest round, then pull up* over the ladder to front rest; lift the 1. leg over farther beam and1 Vi turn r. to straddle seat on both beams; lower to knee hang r. on* farther beam with further turning r., then to hang and down.

4.	Same as ex. 3, but start up on the r. side.

5.	Hang as in ex. I, raise both knees upw.; place insteps against the round on a line with the hands; continue the turn backw. and flex the trunk backw. (bird’s nest); return in reverse order, and down.

6.	As ex. 5, but move the feet to the second or third round to back leaning hang; return in reverse order to straight arm hang, and down.

Hang as in ex. 1, the hands at a point midway between two rounds.

7.	Pull up as often as possible.

7.	An exercise free or all.

Clear the floor of the above apparatus and reform the class to four rows for high-jump.

High-Jump.

Note.—Start the cross bar at about two feet six inches and raise the same two inches after every jump of the class. A short run precedes all jumps. Four jump simultaneously.

1.	Spring off of 1. foot. Same opposite.

2.	As ex. 1, with Vi turn 1. in the flight and swing arms sidew. r. Same opposite.

3.	As ex. 2, but Y2 turn 1. and swing arms forw. overh. Same opposite.

4.	Spring off of both feet and swing arms forw. overh.

5.	Try for height. Spring off of either foot.

Clear the floor of the latter apparatus and prepare for the game “Human-Burden Race.*’ After conclusion of the game clap hands once and dismiss.

(To be continued.)

A WAND DRILL.

By CHRISTIAN BROCAR, Physical Director, New Haven Turn Vcrein, and Senior Student of the New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics.

The various positions derived from the obligatory wand exercises at the Indianapolis Tournament. While there were three different starting positions in the competitive exercises there are here four and reversion.

FIRST EXERCISE.

J. Stride 1. forward, raise wand vertically forward, (1. arm ex-

tended obliquely fore-upward, r. nrm obliquely fore-downward) 1—2.

2.	Fall out 1. forward with Vi turn 1. and the wand raise upward... 3—4

3.	Bend trunk forward, bend 1. arm, place under r. shoulder, and

lower the r. arm forward.................................... 5—0

4.	Kneel on r, knee, raise wand upward.......................... 7—8

Reversion 5—3—2 to starting position........................ 9—10-

Same exercise to the r.......................................17—32

Repeat....................................................... 1—32

SECOND EXERCISE.

1.	Stride 1. sideward, raise wand fore-upward.................. 1—2:

2. Fall out 1, sideward, swing wand 1. side-downward, bend 1.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-123-

arm, place in front of r. shoulder, r. arm extended vertically upward (% arm circle with 1. arm, % with r. arm).......... 3—4

3.	With *4 turn 1. (on the heels) kneel r., swing r. arm side-

downward to horizontal position at r. side (r. arm extended

forward, 1. remains)........................................ 5—6

4.	With M turn r. swing r. arm side-downward r., bend and

place over 1. arm and bend trunk sideward 1................. 7—8

Reversion 5—3—2 to starting position......................... 9—16

Same exercise to the ........................................17—32

Repeat....................................................... 1—32

THIRD EXERCISE.

1.	Stride 1. backward, bend r. arm, place in front of 1. shoulder... 1—2

2.	Fall out 1. backward, turn wand, place over r. arm, (elbows

in front of shoulders)........................................ 3—4

3.	Extend 1. and bend r. knee, turn wand, swing side-downward

1.	and upward............................................... 5—6

4.	Extend r., bend 1. knee, swing wand 1. side-downward, upward

(% circle) and bend the trunk backward...................... 7—8

Reversion.................................................... 9—16

Same exercise to the r.......................................17—32

Repeat....................................................... 1-32

FOURTH EXERCISE.

1.	Stride 1. obliquely forward, bend r. arm, place in front of 1.

shoulder, raise 1. arm obliquely fore-upward. Wrand in line

with 1. leg................................................. 1—2

2.	Fall out obliquely 1. forward, bend 1. arm (bend over shoulder)

and lower r. arm obliquely side-downward ................ 3—4

3.	Extend 1. and bend r. knee, raise wand, 1. arm sideward, r.

arm upward.................................................. 5—6

4.	Extend r., bend 1. knee, lower the r. arm sideward, raise 1.

arm upward.................................................. 7—8

Revision 5—3—2.............................................   9—16

Same exercise to the r.......................................17—32

Repeat....................................................... 1—32

THE CLOSING EXERCISES OF THE NORMAL SCHOOL OF THE N. A. G. U.

will take place at the gymnasium of the school on the evening of June 23rd. Besides musical pieces, vocal and instrumental, the distribution of the diplomas will be preceded by the following papers, written by students whose names are opposite the titles:

Th* North American Gymnastic Union and Its Aims. Mr. Albert Teuscher. Public Playgrounds. Miss Clara Voigt.

Mind and Body. Mr. Fred Maroney.

Ancient and Modern Gymnastic Festivals. Mr. Emil Schwegler.

28 students, among them 15 men, will form the graduating class. 8 have prepared themselves for work in primary and grammar de-

Digitized by
-124-

partments in the public schools, while the others have prepared themselves for work in the Association’s private and in public schools, some in higher institutions of learning.

The following courses of study will give an idea of the thoroughness of the method of instruction pursued in the school.

PEDAGOGY.

1.	Elements of Psychology.

The Sensibilities: corporal feelings, psychical feelings, inter-relations of mind and body.

The Intellect: the presentative power (consciousness, sense-perception, intuition), the representative power (simple representation, memory, imagination, phantasy); thought power (conception, judgment, induction, deduction).

2.	Principles of Teaching.

Methods of Teaching. Definitions, general methods of teaching, teaching processes (instruction, testing).

Moral Training. The will, the training of the will, school incentives.

History of Civilization. The lasting contributions in the arts and sciences, in politics and industries which were made by the Egyptians, Phenicians, Greeks, Romans, Germans and English. Due attention is given to the physical education in the Ancient and Medieval Periods.

ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY.

1.	Introductory.

Cell and protoplasm: methods of reproduction and development of higher vertebrates; tissues and organs, types of connective tissue. Outline of human body.

2.	Osteology.

Microscopic structure and chemical composition of bone; bones of body enumerated and principal bones described.

3.	Myology.

Microscopic structure of muscle tissue, general physiology of muscles, special phj’siology, muscles moving the head, trunk, upper and lower arms, hand, fingers, thigh, leg, foot and toes.

4.	Arthrologv and Syndesmology,

Principal joints and ligaments.

5.	Dietetics.

Classes of food stuffs, etc.

6.	Splanchnology and Angiology.

Digestion, circulation, absorption and assimilation; mastication, deglutition; gastric and intestinal digestion; teeth, oesophagus, stomach, intestines, liver and pancreas; glands concerned and their secretions; heart, blood vessels and lymphatics; lungs and respiration; skin, kidneys and excretion.

7.	Neuroloy.

Histology of nerve tissue; classification of nerves; terminal endings; nutrition and properties and nerves; reflex action; stimuli of nerves; structure and function of cord, medulla, crura cerebri, corpora quadrugemina, cerebellum, cerebrum, spinal and cranial nerves ; sympathetic system.

The last named subjects (Anatomy and Physiology) are studied with the aid of skeletons, human torsos, manikins, dissected models, microscopes, charts and various other apparatus in addition to a course of lectures with the use of cadavers, held at the Wisconsin College of Physicians and Surgeons.

HYGIENE, PHYSIOLOGY OF GYMNASTICS AND FIRST AID TO THE

INJURED.

Hygiene. Effects of pure and impure air on health ; dietetics of the organs ’ of respiration and voice. Water and its uses as a beverage and for washing ; effects ol baths and swimming on metabolism ; care of the skin. Relative value of food-stuffs ; physiologic and pathologic effects of stimulants ; dietetics of the organs of digestion. Clothes and their forms. Sleep.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
-125-

Physiology of Gymnastics. Description of the organs of motion. Influence of bodily exercise on circulation, respiration, and digestion ; on the muscular and nervous systems. Fatigue and its phenomena. Overwork and its consequences. Physiologic and aesthetic aspects of gymnastics. Proper and improver exercises for different ages.

First Aid to the Injured. Description of the different forms of injuries and their temporary protection, with exercises in dressing and bandaging. Aid in case of fainting, suffocating and drowning, with practical demonstrations.

VOCAL MUSIC.

The rudiments of musical notation as to time, pitch and force ; a large number of folk songs and “Turnerlieder,” such as the students may have the chance to use in the gymnasium and in social circles; a number of 4 part songs lor male chorus and mixed chorus.

GERMAN.

(Those students who wish to take up the study of the German language can do so by entering one of the classes of the German-English Teachers* Seminary, which school is affiliated with ours. Several students of this years* class availed themselves to this opportunity with very gratifying results.)

THE METHOD OF TEACHING GERMAN GYMNASTICS.

I.	Auxiliary Means Used in Teaching.

1.	Place of class and teacher during the various parts of the day*s order.

2.	Practical and verbal demonstration.

3.	The command.

4.	Forms of judging and estimating the exercises in the gymnasium, in

the class room, at the exhibition and at the tournaments.

5.	Forms and value of repetition.

6.	Pupils used as assistants.

7.	Measure of lime.

8.	Forms of exercises.

II.	The Pursuit, Progression, Psychological and Physiological Influence of the Various Forms of Exercices.

1.	Tactics in marching, running and dancing steps.

2.	Free exercises with and without hand apparatus in standing, march-

ing, running and dancing steps (Gilbert Dancing).

3.	Various forms of jumping with or withouf the use of apparatus.

4.	Exercises on the apparatus in hang-stand, hang-lying, hang, support-

stand, support-lying, support and combinations.

5.	Combative, competitive, throwing and running games.

III.	The Principles Underlying the Teaching of German Teaching.

1.	Gymnastics shall offer sufficiently agreeable motion and shall be free

from danger.

2.	Gymnastics shall strengthen, make agile, energetic and self-reliant.

3.	Gymnastics shall create a cheerful disposition and joy, as well as a

spirit for acting in common.

4.	Gymnastics shall counteract the evil influence of the school room and

vacation and shall promote graceful carriage of the body.

IV.	Requisites.

1.	The place for exercising and their equipment.

2.	The gymnastic apparatus.

3.	The proper time for exercising.

4.	The teacher.

V.	Plan of Instruction.

1.	Gradation of the material for the primary, grammar and high school

grades.

2.	Adaptation of the material to the demands of the Gymnastic Associa-

tion, higher institutions of learning and normal schools for class-teachers.

3.	Day’s order for the gymnasium, class room, hall or yard.

Digitized by tjOOQle
-126-

4.	Teaching of field aiid track work.

5.	Supervision of playgrounds.

VI.	School and Gymnasium Hygiene.

1.	The necessary dimensions and form of class room and gymnasium.

2.	Lighting, color of wall and ceiling.

3.	Heating and ventilating.

4.	Sanitation.

5.	School furniture.

VII.	Miscellaneous.

1.	Exhibitions. The arrangement of exhibitions for Gymnastic Asso-

ciation and public school.

2.	The laying out and equipment of the field for gymnastic and athletic

tournaments.

3.	The judging of apparatus, field and track work, also of fencing and

wrestling.

4.	Comparison of systems.

5.	Inspection by sight and elementary anthropometry.

VIII.	Practice.—Woriien:

1.	Elementary, intermediate and high grade work in tactics, free exercises

with and without hand apparatus and dancing steps (German and Gilbert).

2.	Elementary and intermediate work in athletics (field and track wrork)

and on the principal apparatus.

3.	Swimming.

4.	Fencing, toil and sabre.

5.	Games.

Men:

1.	Elementary, intermediate and high grade work in tactics, free exercises

with and without hand apparatus, dancing steps, athletics, field and track work, and on the apparatus.

2.	Swimming.

3.	Fencing, foil and sabre, wrestling (catch-as catch-can and Graeco-

Roman) and boxing.

. 4. Games.

MODERN HISTORY OF GYMNASTICS.

I. Humanistic Period.

1.	Revival of phvsical exercise as a factor in education.

2.	The importance of Vittorino da Feltre, H. Mercurialis and H. Cardan us. II. Period of Realism.

1.	Francois Rabelais, M. de Montaigne, J. A. Comenius and J.J. Rousseau.

III.	1. J. B. Basedow, J. F. Simon, J. Du Toit. J. Ch. F. GutsMuths, K. Andre.

2.	G. A. W. Vieth, H. Pestallozzi.

IV.	The 19th Century—Germany.

1.	J. F. L. Jahn, F. Friesen, E. Eiselen.

2.	F. W. Von Klumpp, H. F. Massmann.

2. Adolph Spiess, Hugo Rothstein.

4.	Dr. V. H. Jaeger, Alf. Maul, Dr. K. Wassmannsdorf.

Gymnastics in Germany—Their Founding, Present Standing and Tournaments.

V.	The Founders of Gymnastics in Other European Countries.

1.	Spain and France—Don F. Amaros.

2.	Switzerland—Pestalozzi and Ph. Clias.

3.	Denmark—Frz. Nachtega!!.

4.	Sweden—Hy. Ling.

5.	England—Ph. Clias.

VI.	Gymnastics in America.

1.	Firrt Iintroduction.

2.	The North American Gymnastic Union (Turnerbund).

3.	The Amateur Athletic Union.

4.	The Y. M. C. A. and the Y. W. C. A.

5.	The Present Standing of Gymnastics and Athletics in the Various Circles.

—Geo. Wittich.
-127-

PHYSICAL ASPECT OF AMERICAN FOOTBALL.

gp*?* Harvard Bulletin reprints an article which appears in the current num-ber of the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal from the pens of Dr. H. N. Nichols and Dr. H. B. Smith, the surgeons in charge of the Harvard football squad the past season, on the “Physical Aspect of American Football.” The article is very lengthy, and in its original form contained many drawings from the technical side of the injuries which were received by the members of the squad and the methods used in treating them. Most of the technical part of the discussion is omitted in the article of the Bulletin, which merely sets forth the general part of the discussion with the conclusions arrived at by the two doctors.

In their conclusions the two doctors are very strongly against football, seemingly. The game is said to be unable to develop the best type of men physically, to have too great a percentage of injuries, and a large proportion of them unavoidable. The article concludes with a recommendation that the game should be modified so as to diminish the number of injuries.

The report is based upon (1) the written statements of the players themselves regarding the injuries they had received while playing football previous to this year. Every man was required, on joining the squad, to make out a card for a card catalogue, on which he stated the number and character of his previous injuries; (2) clinical reports which were kept by the writers of the cases which came under their observation and treatment.

No clinical record was kept, however, of the infinity of minor injuries which constantly came under observation, such as abrasions, scratches, minor contusions. (3) The answers received to a circular letter which was sent, after the close of the season, to every one who had been at any time a member of the squad. This circular letter asked the number and character of previous injuries, the length of time they were kept out of the play by those injuries and the length of time they were kept away from college duties, and whether recovery from those injuries was now complete. Similar questions also were asked in regard to injuries received during the season of 1905. A hundred and fifty such circular letters were sent out and answers were received from 110 met:.

There were 150 men altogether in the football squad, of whom 50 at least, played but a very short time, varying from a few days to a weak or two. Of the remaining 100 only 70 can be said to represent the real playing strength of the football squad. This fact makes the proportion of injuries received this year almost double as great as would appear at first sight.

In expectation of occasional epidemics of minor infections special precautions were taken regarding asepsis this year. As a result there was no case of an infected wound during the season, nor did any case of skin infection occur. This result, we believe, has not been paralleled in former years.

The injuries were received in various ways; some in open play, some in the mechanical drill of “tackling the dummy,” but a very great proportion occurred in the “bunch” or “pile” which forms after a player running the ball is tackled. List of injuries received while playing football prior to 1905:

Sprain of thumb.................... 9

Bruise of knee..................... 1

Cuts, various places, usual head..	5

Bruised shoulder (1).............. 31

Dislocation of elbow............... 1

Injury to back..................... 2

Synovitis of knee................. 39

Sprain of ankle................... 42

Concussion (2)..................... 7

Fractured wrist.................... 2

Dislocation of knee...	1

Fractured rib (3).................. 4

Dislocation of shoulder............ 3

Contusion of chest................. 1

Fractured clavicle................. 7

Ruptured muscle.................... 7

Fractured arm...................... 4

Injury to eye...................... 1

Sprain of wrist...—..............   3

Ruptured internal lateral ligament

of knee........................... 1

Dislocation of thumb................ 1

Fractured toe....................... 1

Broken nose........................ 16

Fractured olecranon................. 1

Dislocation of ankle................ 1

Broken foot......................... 1

Sprained toe........................ 1

Fractured ankle..................... 2

Fractured carpus.................... 3

Fractured elbow..................... 2

Dislocation of outer end, clavicle.	5

Fractured finger.................... 8

Injury to kidney (4)................ 1

Fractured fibula.................... 1

Teeth out........................... 1

Total..........................226

Digitized by tjOOQle
List of injuries received during 1905:

Sprained thumbs.......,.............  1	‘

Fractured fibula.................... 1

Cuts (required stitches)............ 12

Bruises (5).......................... 6

Dislocation of elbow................ 1

Teno-synovitis, tendo Achilles.....	1

Dislocation of xiphoid cartilage...	1

Injury to back (6)................... 9

Synovitis of knee (7)................ 3

Sprained ankle...................... 13

Strained muscle of side.............. 2

Crushed finger....................... 1

Contusion of knee.................... 1

Contusion of side.................... 1

Fractured rib.......................  5

Rupture of internal lateral ligament

of knee...........................  1

Dislocation of shoulder (8).......... 2

Concussion.......................... 19

Ruptured muscle...................... 6

Dislocated semilunar cartilage..... 10

Contusion of elbow................... 1

Compound dislocation of fingers....	2

Traumatie valgus..................... 1

Fracture of zygoma................... 2

Torn ear (sutured)................... 3

Broken nose.......................... 7

Fracture of rim of pelvis............ 4

Fractured clavicle................... 1

Bruised hip.......................    2

Fracture of semilunar of wrist.....	1

Dislocation of acromial end, clavicle.. 11

Fractured finger..................... 4

Broken second cervical vertebra....	1

Dislocation of inner end of clavicle... 1

Rupture of biceps of leg............. 1

Middle meningeal hemorrhage.......... 1

Hematoma of ear...................... 2

Fracture of metacarpal bones......... 3

Sprained elbow....................... 1

Total............................145

1—	Judging from our own experience, a very considerable number of the so-called bruised shoulders must have been partial dislocations of the outer end of the collar bone.

2—	Judging irom this year’s experience and from conversations with the players we believe that the figure under concussion is much too small.

3—	The same statement applies to fractured ribs.

4—	The nature of the injury to the kidney was not specified.

5—	These bruises were sufficient to keep the player out of the game.

6—	The character of the injuries was variable, but includes what is ordinarily spoken of as “strained back,” which oftentimes leads to very marked disability for a considerable length of time.

7—	These were cases in which no cause for the synovitis was made out and does not include the synovitis following, for instance, a dislocated semilunar cartilage. The number of these cases was agreed by everbodv to be much less than in previous years.

8—	In one case there had been a previous dislocation of the shoulder.

Certain classes of injuries were common and are under special headings.

(To be concluded.)

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.).

—Give the Baby a Chance. Love isn’t a sickening mush of concessions. Love is firm. Love is just. Love has good, red blood in its veins. Looking over to the ultimate good of its object, love frequently decrees suffering and anguish of spirit.

And I tell you my dear madam :	Some day for bis bad temper and im-

pudence you are going to slap or spank that child your are now too tenderhearted to let cry. Yes, you are, just as sure as you are born. And you won’t slap in love, either ! Think of the shame of it!—you are going to beat the child for the evil qualities that you yourself instilled in him. You are going to beat him in anger, thereby making open confession that your mean, petty, starved nature has not enough moral force by which to rule him. Shame ! shame !

Give the baby a chance to have a healthy brain and nervous system. Do you realize that his brain grows more in his first year than in all his other years combined ? That means don’t ever play with him during his first year, or let any one else play with him. “Kitchee-coo !” cries the visitor. “Oh, oo sweet, precious ’ittle dear!” And poor baby gets poked in the ribs and tossed up in the air. Very bad. Baby may laugh, and baby may grow ; but by and by will come the inevitable wail and sleepless hours to tell of the overstimulated brain and the severe task on the nervous system.—Frank Barkley Copley in The Outing Magazine for June.

Digitized by CaOOQle