MIND AND BODY

Vol. 39	MARCH 1933	No.	411

Building Character Through Pupil Participation

Edwin W. Adams, Associate Superintendent of Schools, Philadelphia.

It has been interesting to watch the changes which have come about during the past several years in the principles and methods involved in our character education program. 'We have moved from a position in which the . attempt was made to teach directly the supposedly desirable character traits to a position in which we emphasize the indirect approach and treatment. In place of a program of studies which prescribed a definite amount of time each week to be used by the teacher for the purpose of inculcating knowledge and ideals of right social relationship through story and song and direct precept, we find character considered as the major educational objective without a definite time allotment in the program but to which each subject and activity of the school is expected to make its contribution. We believe today that the situations which are constantly arising in the varied activities of the child’s school life afford the finest opportunities for the creation of desirable attitudes toward conduct problems, for the development of knowledge essential to proper guidance of conduct, and for the building of habits of right social relationships.

The development of desirable attitudes toward conduct problems depends largely on the attitude of the teacher and on the way in which this attitude expresses itself in pupil-teacher relationships. The influence of the teacher’s attitude on the developing attitudes of her children is extremely subtle. This influence may on the one hand play an important part as far as attitudes toward right and wrong are concerned in any kind of teaching-learning situation, but it is likely to be much more effective when the situation is on a cooperative basis. While knowledge of the generally accepted standards of conduct may be gained through direct instruction, the effectiveness of such knowledge as a factor determining conduct depends largely upon the circumstances in which the knowledge is obtained. For a child to learn socially desirable standards of conduct in situations in which he is living and actively participating is to insure greater likelihood of their retention and subsequent use. Desirable habits of right thought and action can be developed effectively only in a situation where the learner is an active participant.

Good teaching presupposes a pupil-centered teaching-learn-

Digitized by LjOOQle
338

ing situation. Such teaching requires that every pupil must constantly be afforded the fullest possible opportunity for participation in the activities of the class. Teacher-imposed tasks arbitrarily assigned may result in the achievement of certain arbitrarily determined standards. Such a situation, however, is more than likely to be negative or worse in its effect on the child concerned. The number of opportunities which present themselves constantly throughout the school life of a child that make for learning through doing is so large that even to attempt to make a beginning of enumerating them would be a hopeless task. As a matter of fact they are present constantly in practically every school activity. An illustration may serve to suggest other lines of thought.

I recall vividly my first impressions of conditions in a school-yard in the periods preceding and following each session, and during the recess period. The situation presented was that of several hundred children trying to amuse themselves during comparatively short periods of time by playing without any organization or leadership. The result was, generally, chaotic. The noise, from a school and neighborhood point of view, was almost unbearable and the general result was the development of habits of selfishness, disregard for the rights of others, and even physical injury. From this chaotic situation I saw arise the beginning of an organized movement filled with wonderful possibilities for character development.

The problem was how to bring about order out of this chaos and to produce a situation which might be constructive rather than destructive in its outcomes. An informal talk with the children in the highest grade section led to certain suggestions being made by these young people as to ways and means by which this undesirable situation might be corrected. It was on their suggestions that a simple program providing for organized play under pupil leadership at recess was developed.

At the very outset the children found that it was necessary to take into their confidence the children in the other higher grades of the school. These interclass conferences under pupil leadership resulted in the development of a program for interclass games at recess. The problems presented in organizing the program, in selecting the pupil leaders, and in controlling the situation in the schoolyard in order that the interclass games might be played without interference, taxed the abilities of the best pupils in the group. Since the responsibilities placed upon them for organizing and for leading brought many problems before them for solution, they were afforded opportunities for the development of initiative, leadership, and a spirit of helpful cooperation as they attempted to extend the opportunity for these play activities to all the children of the school. Lessons of fair-play, consideration of rights of others, were among those developed.

Out of this play project grew class and school organizations which assumed increasing responsibility for pupil conduct in the general activities of the school, the whole program leading to an

Digitized by ooQle
339

effective solution of at least one element in the life of the school. There is practically no end to the types of activities in a class or in a school which may be undertaken looking toward character contributions. Fundamental to the entire program must be a philosophy which permeates every activity and every relationship within the school. Such a philosophy must view education as a cooperative enteiprise in which each individual is expected to make such contribution as lies within his ability. It recognizes the individual whether pupil, teacher, or principal, and in the light of the knowledge and experience of the group, allows to each the fullest possible development of personality and initiative as is consistent with the welfare of the group as a whole.

Character, while the major objective of all education, is at the same time a by-product of every educational activity. It is the indirect contribution of subject matter, method, and activity. It is intangible, it cannot be measured, it cannot even be discussed, save in those rare incidents when situations arise which make possible a desirable evaluation of human conduct. The entire teaching-learning situation must be filled with opportunities for learning to do by doing, for learning to live by living, and for developing character through the constantly increasing opportunity for acquiring and practicing the elements of right social relationship essential to a proper understanding and appreciation of one’s duties, responsibilities, and privileges.—The hi orm. Philadelphia formal bchool Quarterly.

The Baneful Psalm Of Moses*

I. L. Nascher, M.D., New York, N. Y.

This article is in no sense a theological thesis. Its purpose is to show that a single verse in the Bible has had a most vicious influence upon the health and welfare of a large part of humanity, and how this influence may be counteracted. The 90th psalm in the Book of Psalms is the only one ascribed to Moses. The tenth verse of this psalm contains the well known words “the days of our years are threescore years and ten.” Mo more pernicious sentence than this appears in literature and no tenet in theology, Christian or pagan, has had a more baneful influence upon humanity. Were it my desire to open a theological discussion I could point out the 6th Chapter, 3rd verse of Genesis, in which the “Lord said my spirit shall not always strive with man, for that he is also flesh: yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty years.” The quotation from Genesis is an expression of the Lord, about the time of the deluge, while the psalm is part of a prayer of Moses supposed to have been written about 1100 years later. Although Moses himself reached

‘Medical Times and Long Island Medical Journal.

Digitized by CjOOQle
340

the age of 120 and many of the earlier and some of the later biblical characters approached or exceeded that age, the psalmist’s threescore years and ten have been universally accepted as the normal duration of life.

From a purely physiological standpoint the normal duration of life far exceeds the psalmist's 70 years. I have pointed out on several occasions that the normal cycle of life consists of three periods: development, maturity and decline, each lasting about thirty years and each broken about the middle by a climacteric or critical period. It is generally assumed that development ceases when growth in height ceases, about the twenty-first year. Growth in height ceases about that year because in the erect position assumed by human beings the spinal column is compressed and, as the intervertebral discs are uneven in thickness, the spinal column is forced into curves. In infancy the spinal column is nearly straight. Curving begins when the infant's body assumes an erect position in sitting or standing and by the end of the second decade of life the spinal curves overcome the increase in height occasioned by spinal growth. If we were quadrupeds we would continue to grow in length until about the thirtieth year, when the organs and tissues have reached their maximum normal growth. That bone growth continues until about the thirtieth year is evident from the fact that we need a larger hat, a larger coat, larger gloves and shoes at thirty than at twenty, but there is no increase after the thirtieth year. The bony chest expands until the thirtieth year and the lungs continue to grow until the growth of the retaining wall ceases; so, too, does the brain continue to grow until the skull has readied its maximum size. The heart reaches its maximum normal size about the same time. The metabolic changes have been very active until that time, repair material being formed more rapidly and in larger quantity than the waste which necessitates repair. This anabolic or repair excess gradually diminishes until about the thirtieth year when catabolism, the waste process, and anabolism, the repair process, counterbalance each other and the period of maturity or stable metabolism begins. The developmental period is broken about the middle by puberty. The period of maturity or stable metabolism lasts or should last about 30 years and is broken about the middle by the menopause in the female and the male climacteric in the male. During maturity the metabolic processes, waste and repair, counterbalance each other until the critical period. After the menopause and male climateric a change in the character and a diminution in quantity of the internal secretions of the gonads is probably responsible for a change in the character of the anabolic process. In some instances tissues of a lower nature are formed to replace waste; for example, in some localities fat is formed to repair muscle waste, cartilage waste in the xyphoid appendix is replaced by bone cells, and in glandular structures generally connective tissue replaces gland cells. While this vicarious repair is really an aging process it does not impair

Digitized by kjOOQle
341

the interaction of functions until about the sixtieth year. From this time onward there is a more rapid increase in waste, the anabolic processes are less active and more abnormal repair material is produced, the blood is vitiated, normal functions of earlier life are diminished and the harmonious interaction of functions is impaired. I shall not repeat here the anatomical and physiological changes in organs and their functions as a result of impaired nutrition from vitiated blood in old age. The changes are found in all the organs and tissues of the body and although we apply to the altered senile organs names indicative of pathological conditions, such as chronic myocarditis, chronic interstitial nephritis, arteriosclerosis, etc., these conditions are natural and normal, in a sense, in the period of decline. Barring interruptions by more definite disease, this period should last as long as the preceding periods and in persons who pass through the normal cycle there is a distinct critical phase called the senile climateric, about the 75th year. There are, however, innumerable causes for hastening the three periods and shortening life. The inroads of earlier disease may determine foci for the more rapid degeneration of organs or tissues. The mode of life may cause a more rapid degeneration in an organ or a more rapid disturbance in the harmonious interaction of functions. In the absence of causes producing more rapid degeneration of an organ or tissue and causes that interrupt normal functions, the duration of the last period should be thirty years and of the three periods about 90 years. Changes occurring in these periods may proceed more slowly and the individual may live longer than the normal duration of life. Heredity plays some part in prolongation of the normal cycle, for we find in the vast majority of persons who reach old age that there have been long-lived ancestors.

So strongly has the Biblical threescore years and ten been impressed upon most people that they look upon 70 years as the normal limit of life and anything beyond that is a special gift of God. When they reach the age of '60 they begin to think of death and the nearer they approach the supposed limit the more powerfully are they dominated by the thought that their span of life must soon end. They recognize the inevitability of death and submit in a sullen resignation to the fast approaching tragedy. They may argue with themselves that it is futile to make efforts to prolong life, and adopt a philosophical attitude, or they may be imbued with a strong religious feeling that makes death less repugnant, but there is still the instinct of self preservation, the desire to live. Yet they believe that their lease upon life expires with the 70th year and as they approach that year they become depressed, and lose hope, ambition and energy. In intimate conversation with many persons in the seventh decade of life I have been able to elicit such sentiments in almost every one. A few more intelligent persons who could throw off this fear of death at 70, when they came to realize that 90 years and not 70 years was the normal duration of life, regained hope and ambition. In my own case, coming from a long-lived

Digitized by ^.ooQle
342

family and believing in my theory that, barring accident, I should live 25 years longer, I have made plans for work that will take 15 to 20 years to complete.

If we could instil in the public the belief that 90 years is the normal duration of life, and convince people that the psalmist’s threescore years and ten is a figure of speech without a scientific basis, we might be able to restore hope and ambition in many who approach the 70th year with fear and despondency. This despondency produces apathy with lack of energy and an unwillingness to engage in physical activity. We see this condition in our homes for the aged where many inmates sit, horn" by hour and day by day, brooding and apathetic. They have nothing'to look forward to but fast approaching death. In one large home it has been possible to arouse ambition and physical energy by offering material advantages to those who will exert themselves and keep their minds active by work. But I feel that much more could be accomplished if we could dispel the fear of rapidly approaching death by showing that instead of a few years to the 70th year, they had the prospect of twenty or twenty-five years of life before them. We should encourage the belief that the 8th and 9th decades are still years of fruitfulness and usefulness, not a special dispensation of Providence, to be wasted in gloomy forebodings and inertia. Show our ministers of the Gospel, who have such a powerful influence upon the minds of children and their susceptible parents, that the 6th chapter, 3rd verse of Genesis is much nearer scientific truth than the 90th psalm, and let them spread the gospel of a life of 90 or 95 years or more instead of a life of 70 years or less.

It is probable that if persons knew that barring accident and disease their chances of reaching the age of ninety years, the completion of the normal duration of life, are as good as their present chances of reaching 70, their supposed age limit, they would not struggle so frantically in the sixth and seventh decades to achieve a success in a few years and hasten thereby the mental and physical senile changes which lead to physiological death. Many cases of death in the latter part of the seventh and beginning of the eighth decades can be traced to such hastened senile changes. It is safe to say that in many of these cases, if they had not put faith in that pernicious bugbear, the Psalm of Moses, they would not have exerted themselves physically and mentally until under the strain of work and the depression of fear they broke down and became mental and physical wrecks and died many years before their alloted time.

Digitized by LaOOQle
343

An Answer to Core Activities in Physical

Education.

V. S. Blanchard, Director of Health Education, Detroit Public Schools.

The “core” of the physical education program is the child. The trouble with our whole educational procedure in the past, if we are to believe our leaders, has been the exaltation of subject matter over the child. So if we are to avoid making the mistakes of our predecessors in the field of education it would seem to me that we should not be particularly concerned with whether or not we had core-activities in physical education comparable to the three R's in general elementary education. Does modern education base its procedure on a learning process that demands a thorough mastery of the three R’s before the child is allowed experiences in art, music, health education, etc.? Should we as physical educators demand “fundamental and conditioning exercises” as a necessary prerequisite to experience in rhythmic activity, play, games, sports, dancing, aquatics, etc.?

Accepting as the “core” of our program the individual child, it hardly seems comprehensible that we should consider seriously cutting him off from a varied program of physical education designed to allow for normal growth physically, socially, and emotionally while we develop his biceps, triceps, pectoralis major, and extensors. Biological findings lead us to believe that his muscular development advances normally in the process of a comprehensive program of rhythms, games, stunts, and sports. And at the same time as a member of a social group and as a member of a team he experiences growth in emotional stability and in social consciouness hitherto quite impossible under “the direct control of the teacher.” Are opportunities for self expression, problem solving, leadership, and followership to be crucified on the cross of “core activities” in physical education?

We are evidently at cross purposes in our fundamental objectives. Statements have been made as to how a violinist learns to play; of the hours he spends in acquiring arm, finger, and body control; of how he is finally given a “musical composition to learn”. This may be true if the product desired is an expert violinist. Similar procedures might be employed were we aiming to develop a “Babe” Ruth, a Helen Wills or a Helene Madison. In the Eurythmics of Jacques-Dalcroze we find this statement: “The aim of a musical education should be. not the production of pianists, violinists, singers, but of musically developed human beings.” Might we not paraphrase this to fit physical education? We are not training physical experts but conducting a program comprehensive enough to allow for foundations of health in its broadest sense. To accomplish this there must be a liberation of all the capacities of the individual—physical, mental, emotional, social. Can the “whole child” be liberated piecemeal?

Digitized by LjOOQle
344

It has been stated that “...........fundamental free exercises,

intended to prepare the body thoroughly Jar life actiiities, are placed in the hub or first zone. . . It is assumed then that after this has been done we are free to go on and develop “Polymotor activities and their basic principles of action”, and “apply the conditioned body in fundamentals of games, sports, etc., etc.” In the first place I would take issue as to what criteria is at hand to show that such fundamental free exercises do prepare the body thoroughly for life activities. Doubtless as is stated “a thoroughly conditioned body is rhythmic” but is a body thoroughly conditioned when it has had nothing but fundamental free exercises under direct control of the teacher. The body has been allowed no interpretation, no creativeness, and no opportunity for liberation of inherent qualities peculiar to the rhythmic nature of the particular individual. Under such conditions I should expect the same rhythm that emanates from an electrical player piano with about as much individuality.

The author of “Core Activities in Physical Education” seems to appraise what he designates as the “so called natural program” as one in which the child conducts himself solely according to his whims, where “play and recreation. . . .has reduced physical education work to the organization of play programs”, where laziness and lines of least resistance are encouraged and where the child never faces any difficulties to be overcome. He follows this analysis by stressing the necessity for one’s meeting difficulties, drudgery, hardships, and the like without flinching from them. I am sure that the program which he terms as “so called natural” allows ample opportunity for testing the child's initiative, for strengthening his perseverance, and for encouraging him to meet his problems self sufficiently rather than under the goading of a drill master. Forcing the child to overcome difficulties by driving may result in what seems like effort on the child's part but effort without an attendant interest will have no lasting effect on the child. In other words it is wasted effort. A. Gordon Melvin in the Technique of Progressive Teaching says: “It is mistakenly supposed that the more disagreeable or unpleasant the task upon which a child determinedly engages, the greater the effort he puts into learning.” On the other hand, difficult tasks are assumed when there is a direct and immediate interest in accomplishing them, when there is an inherent satisfaction in overcoming the difficulty. Such satisfactions emanate from learning a difficult skill in soccer fieldball or tennis; from mastering an intricate dance step; from doing a hard stunt. For example, John in Grade 4 is trying to do the headstand. Peter, his classmate, can do it rather easily. John wants to do it because it is the only stunt out of eight which were selected by the class that he cannot do. He knows he needs help. In the reading class he consults the card on headstand. This was written by another class in literature and also illustrated with a series of “stickmen” in the art class. He learns that there are five definite steps to master. He tries it

Digitized by Google
345

again in the gymnasium class without seeking help. He does not succeed and asks Peter to help him. Peter is glad to help. He notices that John has a three point base but that he is standing on the back part of his head instead of on the front part. He suggests the change and after several trials John succeeds in doing the headstand. He has not only acquired the satisfaction of being able to do the headstand but he has also acquired the ability to help himself and to ask for help when it is needed..

■When such accomplishments as these are worked out by the children themselves, when they evolve new means of accomplishment, when they assist one another my contention is that the effort expended is not a wasted effort but one closely coordinated with a vital interest which I have never yet seen evoked under a teacher controlled group taking “fundamental free exercises”.

The Germicidal and Therapeutic Opelika Applications of Soaps*

John E. Walker, M.D., Opelika, Ala.

Soaps are highly germicidal against a number of pathogenic organisms. Their activity against streptococci, pneumococci, meningococci, diphtheria bacilli, influenza bacilli and bpirocha* ta Pallida is such that they compare favorably with many of the recently synthesized chemicals that have been heralded, at least in advertisements, as crowning achievements of modern chemistry. The standard textbooks on surgery and bacteriology, however, make practically no mention of these properties of soaps. This is partly because soaps are not germicidal against the organisms used as a routine in testing germicides; namely, typhoid bacilli and staphylococci. Also, the recognition of the germicidal properties of soap is comparatively recent. Despite the fact that their limited activity against staphylococci and typhoid bacilli precludes their use as general germicides, it has been amply shown that their hygienic value by no means rests solely on their detergent properties.

In addition to their use for purposes of hygiene, Renaud has recently revived interest in the possible therapeutic application of soap. He used a 2 per cent solution of sodium oleate as an irrigation and as a wet dressing for ulcerated surfaces and abscesses. Bis results were very favorable in tuberculosis abscesses, pyogenic abscessed and genital sores. B.e believes that the low surface tension of such a solution of soap, whereby it penetrates quickly into all crevices, greatly enhances its value. The results of Renaud’s work, taken together with the fact that reference books make no reference to the germicidal properties of soaps, seem to render desirable a brief review of recently acquired knowledge of this subject.

’Abstract of an article from the J. A. M. A.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
346

Lamar showed that sodium oleate was strongly bactericidal against pneumococci and streptococci. Reasoner demonstrated that soap has a germicidal and solvent action on pallida. Nichols became interested in the subject on account of the possibility of the spread of respiratory disease by contaminated eating utensils during the World War. He found that ordinary soap solutions [about 0.5 per cent] used in washing mess kits destroyed pneumococci, streptococci and influenza bacilli.

Soon thereafter, I undertook a more thorough investigation of the whole subject, beginning the work with chemically pure compounds. The work with the chemically pure compounds need not be repeated here, other than to say that the results obtained with commercial soaps agreed with the results anticipated from the knowledge of the chemically pure compounds.

The significance of the fact that soap concentrations of from 1:80 to 1:1,280 destroy bacteria is readily appreciated when it is realized that the concentration of soap in an ordinary thick lather used in hand-washing is in the neighborhood of 1:12 . Moreover, it was shown that the activity of soap was at least doubled when the temperature of the water was increased to 35 C.; that is, to about body temperature. And the activity was still further enormously enhanced when hot water [45 C.] was used. The latter effect was, of course, partly the result of the heat.

These results all indicate that the thorough washing of the hands with soap suffices for the destruction of streptococci, pneumococci, meningococci, gonococci and diphtheria bacilli. Influenza bacilli and	bpirochaeta pallida are also to be	included in

this group as a result of the work of Reasoner and Nichols. These micrc-organisms will also be destroyed by the hot soapy water used in washing dishes. These remarks are based on the pul*ely bactericidal action of soap, and this effect in actual practice is, of course, supplemented by the mechanical removal of bacteria.

It was further found that the germicidal action of soap was greatly depressed by the presence of albuminous material such as serum. This property is possessed by practically all germicides. For instance, I have shown that mercurochrome-220 soluble not only ceases to be a germicide when added in ordinary concentrations to fresh defibrinated blood but actually interferes with the germicidal functions of the serum and leukocytes. However, I treated -several rabbits infected with virulent pneumococci by subcutaneous and intravenous injections of soap solutions. The treatment did not have the slightest effect on the infections.

Larson and Davison have shown that soaps have a definite effect in neutralizing bacterial toxins. Renaud also believes that this property supplements the germicidal action of soap when used in the treatment of wounds.

As sodium oleate is the least irritating of the soaps, Renaud’s choice of it in preference to other soap is unquestionably to be commended. It is easily obtainable in powdered form. Sapo [U. S. P.] will probably answer the same purpose, being prepared

Digitized by LjOOQle
347

exclusively from olive oil and consisting therefore of about 75 per cent of sodium oleate.

CONCLUSION

Soaps are strongly bactericidal against pneumococci, streptococci, meningococci, gonococci, diphtheria bacilli, influenza bacilli and	bpirochaeta pallida. Their activity against these or-

ganisms compares favorably with that of many of the recently synthesized chemicals. When properly used for cleaning the hands or for the washing of eating utensils, soaps are undoubtedly potent factors in preventing the spread of diseases due to these organisms. The action of soaps as germicides is, however, limited by the fact that they do not destroy staphylococci and typhoid bacilli.

Renaud has recently found 2 per cent solutions of sodium oleate beneficial as an irrigation and wet dressing for ulcerated surfaces.

Visual Aids to Health Education

Howard L. Conrad, B. S. in Ed., Ed. M. Supervisor of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools, Lecturer in Hygiene Temple

University.

III.	CLASSROOM SPECIMENS AND CLASS EXCURSIONS

AS VISUAL AIDS

The compound term ‘object-specimen-model’* is more descriptive of this particular visual aid than the term “classroom specimen’. The ‘Object’ is the thing itself in its entirety; e. g., a calf heart, a long bone [supplied by the butcher], a splint, a stretcher. By ‘specimen’ is meant a sample to show quality, texture, or structure; e. g., a section of a long bone, a microscopic slide of the blood cells, a dissected lens from an animal eye, or a sample of water containing organic material. The “model’’, as its name implies, is a replica, life size or in miniature, of an object to be studied; e. g., a manikin, or sectioned models of the heart, the lungs, or the brain.

The chief advantages that accrue from the use of such visual aids as the object-specimen-model are:

a.	The class is supplied with something concrete and real to see, touch, handle and have explained.

b.	The object-specimen-model is three-dimensional and therefore more easily explained and comprehended than the flat drawing or even the motion picture film.

c.	The use of natural, or approximately natural, colors heightens the interest and aids in forming a true concept.

The use of the object, the specimen, or the model as a visual aid to health education should increase interest, save time in

*Cf. Educational Monographs Vol. 1., No. 8, Penna. Dept. Public Instruction, 1929, Part II. p. 9.

Digitized by AjOOQle
348

learning, make instruction more meaningful, and motivate further investigation.

In using anatomical objects and specimens, care should be taken to see that they are properly, prepared. The calf heart, prior to dissection, must be thoroughly cleansed; and kept from decomposition by refrigeration or preservative solutions. Animal bones may be used over a long period of time if they are carefully scraped of all adhering tissue and the marrow and fat thoroughly cooked out of them.

This type of material must be handled in a highly sanitary manner or disgust and revulsion will result. I recall one instance when an enthusiastic but poorly informed teacher tried the bone-acid experiment. Instead of a chicken bone she selected a piece of beef-shin bone about the size of an apple. The acid employed was too dilute; and instead of being able to tie the bone in a knot, she was forced to approach the concoction with nostrils firmly held and ultimately consign it to the garbage pail.

Pupils appreciate object-specimen-model collections that they themselves have made, e. g. first aid kit. Opportunities for this sort of thing are not as frequently met in health education as in geography and science. However, the next best thing to the actual collection is a collection of illustrations, photographs, and sketches mounted so as to supplement the health education notebook.

Securing objects, specimens, or models for health education use is not as difficult as one might suppose. In first aid, for instance, the pupils upon whom the instructor demonstrates the-different types of bandages may serve as models for the rest of the class. If sufficient interest is aroused in the pre-view of the topic, many voluntary offers for objects and specimens will be forthcoming.

Microscopic objects and specimens are rather difficult to use effectively unless there are sufficient microscopes and slides to go the rounds. In certain teaching techniques, like the ‘Textbook Study Lesson’, the pupils can go singly to the teacher-focused microscope without creating disorder or wasting time.

The class excursion, journey, or trip is quite an old, but effective visual aid. We are told that, back in the Eighteenth Century, Rousseau and Pestalozzi taught that life must be learned by observing it and living it. They were the pioneers of the back-to-Nature-for-Learning Movement; and the class excursion as an outgrowth of such teaching has been fostered by alert teachers for years.

The class excursion involves conducting pupils to places where objects, situations, and processes may be observed in their natural environment. Educational tradition at times, used to believe that four walls, some desks, and some books made a school. The wider concept of learning considers the world at large as the school and the classroom merely as the place of starting, discussing, and fixing the experiences of the class.

Digitized by v^ooQle
349

Several topics in health education that will be enhanced by appropriate and timely excursions are:

Community Hygiene: visits to filtration plants, incinerators, milk and other food handling establishments, local health bureaus and laboratories, recreation centers, etc. Industrial Hygiene: visits to modem office buildings, well lighted and ventilated factories, paying special attention to safety devices, and methods of handling deleterious dusts and gases.

In addition to these purely health enterprises, the excursions taken by the geography and science departments to museums and zoological gardens can be closely correlated to the health education lessons.

Aside from class excursions, the health education teacher should at times provide opportunities for student committees {Sanitation, School and Grounds, etc.] and interested clubs to make trips so that first hand information can be gotten.

The following steps are usually necessary in planning and conducting a class trip:

1.	Pre-view of the site by the teacher

2.	Arrangements with [a] school authorities, and [b] owners and executives in charge at site.

3.	Motivate the excursion through

[a] class discussion

fb] presenting the problem

[cj assigning collateral reading [if necessary]

4.	On return to class, discussion and appraisal of trip in terms of the outcomes, i. e., health knowledge, habits, and attitudes.

The class excursion, while involving considerable planning and administrative detail, well repays the effort of the teacher in that it provides an interesting and natural way of learning. It is remembered long after chapters, pages, names, and dates are forgotten.

In these three articles on Visual Aids to Health Education, including blackboard illustrations, films, charts, posters, object-specimen-models, and class excursions, we have no more than scratched the surface of a very extensive phase of health instruction. If this brief treatment of the values of these tools as teaching helps has stimulated interest and renewed endeavor in teachers and students of health education the purpose of the articles is realized.

EDITOR’S NOTE:—This concludes the series of three articles on Visual aids in health education. Mr. Conrad will be pleased to answer any questions on the topic.

Digitized by kaOOQLe
350

Volume of Circulation and Its Regulation by the Venopressor Mechanism*

Yandell Henderson, Ph. D., New Haven, Conn.

The volume of the circulation is the size of the blood stream pumped through the lungs and out to all the organs of the body by the heart. It is not the same thing as the total blood volume of the body. The blood volume is measured simply in liters or in liters per kilogram of body weight. The volume of the circulation is measured in liters of blood flow per minute.

It is merely a coincidence that in a resting man of average size the heart pumps each minute a volume which is about equal to all the blood in the body. In small animals, with their high metabolism, the heart beats so rapidly and the volume of the circulation is so large that, as an average, each particle of blood goes round the circulation two or three times each minute. In large animals the heart beats more slowly and the circulation also is slower. In the horse diming rest the volume pumped each minute is probably equal to about half the total blood volume, and on the average each particle of blood circulates only once in two minutes or more.

During physical exertion the heart rate is quickened and the strokes are probably also larger, so that the volume of the circulation is greatly increased. The blood volume of course remains unchanged. The blood in active circulation flows more rapidly; and in addition a considerable volume of blood, which was previously stagnant in such reservoirs as the spleen and the liver, is added to the stream. The circulation is thus enabled to carry the increased amount of oxygen required by the actively working muscles.

The factor of dominating importance in determining the volume of the circulation is the amount of oxygen consumed by the body. Most of the symptoms that develop in the various forms of heart disease are due to failure of the circulation to maintain its respiratory function, particularly the transportation of oxygen from the lungs to the tissues. In the athlete, as in the cardiac patient, the limit on physical exertion is set by the capacity of the heart to pump a sufficient blood stream to supply the oxygen that the active tissues demand.

The volume of the circulation during rest is closely related to the total oxygen consumption of the body; for the blood stream under basal conditions is about twenty times as large as the volume of oxygen absorbed in the lungs each minute. The volume of air drawn into the lungs each minute and the volume of the blood pumped through the lungs in that time are approximately equal. During bodily rest both are about 5 liters a minute. The air loses about 5 per cent of its volume of oxygen

’Journal, Am. Medical Association.

Digitized by L.ooQle
353

decreased circulation after surgical operation? without hemorrhage, after physical suffering and in illness?

Twenty years ago the answer would have been: The vigor of the heart’s activity determines the volume of the blood stream. A “weak heart action” is still spoken of in many conditions of acute disease or after major surgical operations or hemorrhage. But the development of physiology has demonstrated that the heart itself is not at fault; in reality, it is the volume of the venous return to the right side of the heart that is deficient. The deficiency and failure that generally bring the circulation to a standstill and thus lead to the vast majority of all deaths among mankind lie in a factor which many years ago I named the “venopressor mechanisn.”

Unfortunately, I had to stop with a name; and no one has yet adequately explained exactly what the name stands for. I propose now to attempt again to define it.

The circulation should, I think, be conceived, not as a balance of two mechanical factors only, the heart and the vasomotor system, but rather of three factors. It is supported like a tripod that falls if any one of its three legs fails. The heart pumps the blood onward; the vasomotor nervous system regulates the caliber of the finer blood bessels and thus determines the arterial resistance and pressure. But it is chiefly a third factor, the venopressor mechanism, that pushes the blood back through the veins toward the light side of the heart. This third factor is augmented to support the increased circulation in an athlete during exertion. It is depressed in illness and is the chief cause of the decreased circulation in acute disease. Certainly the heart can pump onward only such a volume as the venous return brings to it.

The discovery that there must be some venopressor mechanism came about in this way: Harvey, in describing the heart beat, said “The auricle contracts and forces the blood it contains into the ventricle. The ventricle then contracts and ejects the blood into the arteries.” In studying the volume curve of the heart many years ago, however, I found that the ventricles are filled nearly full by venous pressure even before the auricle contracts. This observation led on to prolonged study by me, and then by many others, of that process by which, as Harvey says, “the auricles are filled as magazines or reservoirs of the blood, which is tending spontaneously and, by the motion of the veins, under pressure toward the center.” Harvey recognized the venous return.

A clear-cut demonstration of the action of the venopressor mechanism, whatever it is, is afforded by an experiment recently described by Riml. If the chest of a rabbit is opened and the pulmonary artery is clamped, the pressure in the vena cava rises within a minute to 10cm. of water. If the vena cava is opened, 50 per cent of all the blood in the body flows out quickly, even when opposed by a pressure of a centimeter of water, what is the nature of the force which thus squeezes the
354

blood back toward the heart? In the textbooks the “vis a ter-go,” or push from behind, imparted by the heart to the blood in the arteries, and from the arteries through the capillaries to the veins, is always given as the force sending blood back to the heart. But in this experiment the fact that the pulmonary artery is clamped effectually eliminates the push of blood into the arteries by the heart. There is here involved some elastic contraction, some pressure on the blood vessels, that squeezes the blood out of the tissues of the body and thus forces it on through the veins toward the heart.

Doubtless the vasomotor nervous system plays a part in the venous return, for there are nerves to veins as well as to arteries. The spleen has been shown by Bancroft to be a reservoir from which blood is thrown into active circulation during physical exertion. A similar action of the liver has been demonstrated by Mautner and Pick. But something more is needed to effect the enormous variation in the venous stream to the heart seen, at one extreme, in an athlete under great exertion and, at the other extreme, in a patient in profound physical depression. What is it?

After a search that has lasted for more than a quarter of a century, I have recently come to the conviction that the venous return to the heart is chiefly determined by the general tonus of all the skeletal muscles of the body, more especially of the abdominal muscles and particularly the diaphragm, as well as the nonstriated musculature of the alimentary canal; and that the element which influences this tonus to exert a greater or lesser pressure on all the tissues of the body and on the blood which they contain, driving it back toward the heart, is the state and control of respiration in its broadest sense. The circulation in its chief function, the transport of gases, is essentially a part of respiration. In general, the degree of activity of respiration, the general tonus of the body and the volume of the circulation vary together. These three functions increase and decrease in close relation to one another, alike in the normal man at rest and under physical exertion, as well as in the sick and the dying. Accordingly, it is found that in the physical depression after major surgical operations certain conditions occur simultaneously: the diaphragm is relaxed, the vital capacity of the lungs is decreased, the tonus of the skeletal muscles and alimentary canal is lowered, and the volume of the circulation is diminished. Recent clinical experience demonstrates that under such stimulation of respiration as is induced by inhalation of carbon dioxide all these aspects of depression improve together: respiration, general muscle tonus and the circulation are restored toward normal conditions.

In the daily life of a normal man such exercise as a walk induces for a time a higher muscle tonus, a more active respiration and a fuller circulation. Even as this paper was being written observations by others have appeared which seem to accord with the general conception that these effects are fundamentally

Digitized by
355

related. King, Blair and Garrey find that with each inspiration such indexes of muscular tonus as the knee jerk and Achilles reflex are increased in intensity. Barcroft and Verzar find that under exposure to cold the pulse rate is increased with each access of shivering. Presumably the volume of the circulation is increased with the pulse. Shivering is excessive tonus.

Especially significant is the fact, demonstrated by Hess, that the movements of respiration do not consist merely in alternate contraction and relaxation of the thoracic muscles but that, at each breath, these muscles pass from one tonus level to another and back again. When respiration is depressed, as after anesthesia and operation, muscular tonus is low, the thorax is collapsed, the diaphragm is relaxed and the lungs are deflated. When respiration is stimulated by physical exercise or by inhalation of carbon dioxide, musclar tonus is high, the thorax is expanded and the lungs are fully inflated.

Tissue tonus is one of the most fundamental properties of life. It keeps the fluids within the tissues at a pressure above that of the outside world. This property is intimately associated with tissue respiration. It is probably the factor which in primitive forms of life produces the first elementary circulation, even before a heart is developed and long before the vasomotor nervous system appears. In this aspect the venopressor mechanism is the most elementary and fundamental factor in the circulation.

In the medicine of our forefathers a generation or two ago the drug which more than any other was used to support and improve the circulation was strychnine. In its action on the reflex centers of the nervous system strychnine is, in a sense that no other drug attains, a true tonic, a stimulant for muscular tonus. Increased tonus increases the general respiratory metabolism of the body; and by the tonic pressure of the muscles on their own substance and on all the other tissues, except the skin, this tonus aids the venous return to the heart. If the general idea here presented is correct, strychnine, much more than epinephrine, with its merely momentary influence on vasomotor nerve endings, is the drug to support a depressed circulation.

In normal life the increase in the volume of the circulation at the beginning of physical exercise depends largely on the active contraction of the skeletal muscles pumping blood onward, raising venous pressure and supplying a larger volume to the right side of the heart. Simultaneously, and largely under the same mode of stimulation, respiration is increased and its muscles are contracted. The mean position of the diaphragm is lowered, expanding the thorax, compressing the abdominal viscera, increasing the difference of pressure in these two body cavities and augmenting the venous blood stream to the heart.

Thus three factors essential to the dynamics of the body— muscular contraction, respiration and the circulation—are coordinated in health. So also they generally fail together after illness and in postoperative depression; then muscular tonus is low,

Digitized by AjOOQle
356

respiration shallow, the diaphragm relaxed, and the venous stream to the right side of the heart diminished. Such parallelism indicates a fundamental connection between the functions concerned and suggests therapeutic applications of far reaching importance.

CONCLUSION

The volume of the circulation, or amount of blood pumped each minute by the heart, is about twenty times as large as the volume of oxygen absorbed from the lungs in the same period. In a normal man at rest, it is a stream that is equal each minute to the entire blood volume of the body. It is much larger during physical activity, and much smaller during illness and postoperative depression.

Investigations in recent years have yielded knowledge of great general value regarding the circulation in health and disease, but not as yet an entirely satisfactory clinical method for measuring its volume. Such a method will afford information as instructive as that now obtained by means of the sphygmomanometer or the electrocardiograph.

The factor that chiefly determines the volume of the circulation is the venous return to the right side of the heart. This factor conditions both increase and decrease of the circulation. During physical exercise the heart can pump onward through the lungs and into the arteries only the volume that comes to it through the veins. In illness a failing heart is generally due rather to an inadequate venous return of blood than to depression of the strength of the heart itself.

The blood is not merely pushed back to the right side of the heart by the pressure transmitted from the left side of the heart through the arteries and capillaries to the veins; nor is the venous return due in. the main to the vasomotor control of the blood vessels. According to the view here presented, this vitally important third factor in the circulation is maintained and varied chiefly by quite another force; namely, the general tonus of the musculature of the body. This tonus, by the pressure which it exerts on the tissues and the blood within them, and especially on the abdominal viscera, is the force which in health maintains and varies the volume of the venous return. In illness the depression of muscular tonus permits a stagnation of blood in the tissues and a consequent failure of the venous return.

Both in health and in illness the general muscular tontis, the volume of the circulation and the activity of respiration are increased and decreased in closely parallel relation and largely by the same influences.

Digitized by kjOOQle
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 39	MARCH,	1933	No. 411

PUBLISHED BYJKIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Emil Rath, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

Carl L. Schrader, Boston, Massachusetts.

Jame3 E. Rogers, ^Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Asso., New York.

Grover W. Mueller, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.,

Editoriarcommunications are to be sent to GROVER W. MOELLER, Editor. 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa.

Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

\ J _ Editorial Comment.

The article on “Building Character Through Pupil Participation,, which appears in this issue of Mind and Body is an excellent exposition of the sane procedure in character education, a procedure in which activity, pupil participation, and the indirect approach supplant direct classroom instruction. For many years physical educators and recreation leaders have emphasized the importance of play in the formation of character. It is significant that the author of the article to which we have referred was able to develop an entire school character training program out of a recess play project.

Although we hope that we always may have problems in order to maintain a lively interest in life and to counteract the tendency toward intellectual degeneration, there are some controversial subjects for which we hope solutions and agreement may soon be found,—if for no other reason than to permit additional thought to be given to relatively more important matters.

Take, for example, the matter of posture and posture training! Pros and cons are continuously and vociferously stated. On the one hand, we are told with great assurance that posture is inherited, that we can do little or nothing to modify it, and that fortunately it makes no difference whether we modify it or not: in brief, that the only value of so-called good posture lies in the fact that it affords aesthetic appearance. That these statements are either treasonous or that they are made by ignoramuses, we are informed with no little display of temper by the proponents who point out with great confidence that good posture is vital to good health,—a great many of the pains, aches, and ailments of mankind being due to poor posture,—and, further, that general physical fitness as well as the best mechanical use of the body in all activities is dependent on correct posture.

Digitized by v^ooQle
358

A third group restricts its claim to aesthetic appearance and to most proficient use of the body in physical activities. And yet a fourth group maintains that the value of correct posture lies mainly if not entirely in its wholesome influence on mental life: the maintenance and development of self-confidence, poise, happiness, and other phases of mental health.

Surely at least some of these claims can be verified or disproven without too much expenditure of time, effort, and money. Whatever the expenditure, it would probably result in great saving in the future. Here is a problem which merits the attention of research workers.

Just what is good posture? Is there only one normal good posture, a model which should serve everyone? If so, how much deviation in one way or another should be permitted before attaching the label of poor or incorrect posture? Or, are there other kinds of correct posture, each of which corresponds with a particular type of body-build; and is a certain amount of deviation from each to be considered normal? What are the specific values of “correct” posture, and the ill-effects of “incorrect” posture? Does incorrect posture bring about lack of organic vigor, poor digestion, constipation, pains, etc., or do such ailments arise in company with incorrect posture from a common cause?

In this issue of Mind and Body we publish the first of a short series of articles by John C. Kieffer on relatively little known but valuable handcraft projects for playgrounds. Many of the projects will be found useful also in summer camps and in clubs and schools. Of particular interest in these days of small budgets is the simplicity and the cheapness of most of the articles described. Mr. Kieffer has had several years of successful experience in organizing and supervising the activities in Philadelphia’s summer school playgrounds.

Misleading Publicity.

False hope has been created among many of the blind, their families and their friends throughout the United States by the widespread newspaper publicity given to the announcement in Chicago on December 18 that telescopic spectacles have been perfected which can restore vision to 40 per cent of the present classified blind population.

The experience of opthalmologists who have done much work with telescopic spectacles indicates that the true percentage of those now classified as blind who can be helped by the use of this device—but who cannot be helped by ordinary spectacles— is not 40 per cent, but much less than five per cent. The assumption that practically all cases of low vision are capable of being improved by mere enlargement of the images on the retina is false. The group of the “near-blind” includes a large number of persons whose vision is obstructed by opacities, of persons whose optic nerves or retinas have lost practically all sensitiveness, of persons whose eye diseases would be aggravated and blindness precipitated by excessive use of the eyes, and many others who cannot be helped by any optical device—A Joint Statement by the American Foundation for the Blind and the National Society for the Prevention of Blindness.

Digitized by v^ooQle
359

A Graded Physical Education Program

By James Edward Rogers, Director, National Physical Education Service.

This is the second article in a series of five which discusses putting education into physical education. The five criteria to do this are [1] development of well organized, balanced, worthwhile programs, [2] a graded program, [3] a program based upon individual needs, [4] a program based upon educational procedures, and [5] a program that gains definite achievements and results. Last month we considered number one and this month we are considering number two.

Many cities, towns and even rural places have fine graded programs in physical education. There has been remarkable progress in this direction throughout the country during the past five years; however, much is yet to be done.

Here is a paragraph from a confidential letter written by a professor of education in one of our large national universities and who is also a real friend to our profession. He recently made an extended trip studying physical education programs: “You asked about my impressions of physical education as I visited the schools. You realize of course that I am not a teacher of physical education, I am simply a layman trained only as a school administrator and it was from the standpoint of administration that I was investigating the phjrsical education department. The lack of a purpose was most evident. No one had a measure of accomplishment from fall to spring or from freshman to senior. No one had a record of what they did last year either for the individual or for the class. One, the teacher

for the boys' work in-------*—, when I asked for his program of

last year said that he had none, but could show me his record for this year. When I asked, “Why the difference?” he said he went to summer school last summer. The principals of the high schools I visited were uncertain regarding the value of the physical education program. The principal in-----------said	that	he

could report to his school committee what had been accomplished from September to June in any academic subject and had records to prove it. He could state with a fair degree of sureness whether he had enough teachers or too many in any academic department. For physical education he did not know at all whether he should add additional instructors or eliminate some of the instructors he had. When I asked the physical education teacher in that same building for his program he said he did not have or need one. “We have apparatus work on Monday, calisthenics on Wednesday and swimming on Friday. Why bother with printed programs?” Possibly all of this is beside the point but should not pupils be classified for physical education on a basis of need for the program the same as for English or Algebra? Should we not have some record of what was done in order that we can use that to determine how it might be improved?

Digitized by LjOOQle
360

“Snedden says the most outstanding unanswered question in education is ‘How much is enough?’ I did not get from any physical education teacher even the suggestion of an answer to

that question. The director at— —----------had a card catalog of

each high school pupil on which was indicated each semester all out-of-school activities and in the light of what the pupil was doing outside, his school program was formulated. What I

liked about----------in contrast to the other teachers with whom

I discussed the underlying philosophy of the physical education program was that she seemed to have very definite reasons for what she was trying to do and very definite plans for securing results. She had less to work with in the way of equipment and facilities than any other teacher that I visited in the four states.”

Although there is truth in what he says, we also know that there are many schools that have well planned, organized programs of activities based on age, physical growth, neuro-muscular skill training, emotional characteristics and the like. Our meetings, conferences and literature are full of discussion of the need for graded programs—yet we must confess that in some places we do teach subject matter and not children; that we do repeat doing the same thing; and that we think too much of our activities. We are not teachers of exercise, gymnastics, swimming, rhythms, sports, etc. We are teachers of growing, changing boys and girls—hence we need a graded program adapted to their age needs and physical capabilities, their motor skills and their personality characteristics.

We know that the other subjects of the curriculum are graded and that the child is carried step by step to the different levels in his learning process in spelling, reading, writing, etc. This is also true of the subjects in junior and senior high schools. Freshman English is different from senior English; yet in Some places teachers of physical education seem to teach the same material for freshmen as they do for seniors. A principal says, “I know what they are teaching in my other school subjects, yet the physical educators seem to be teaching the same material to all our groups over and over again”. He asks, "Is basketball the only activity for junior and senior high schools from November to April?” A superintendent asks the question, "Can you tell me what a nine year old boy and girl ought to know or learn in neuro-muscular skills? How does this differ from what the ten and eleven year old ought to know?” Another educational administrator asks, “Is there not a graded program for the three primary grades, one, two and three, adapted to the ages of six, seven and eight? Is there not a definite graded program for the intermediate grades of four, five and six that is adapted to the ages of nine, ten and eleven? Is there not also a distinctive junior and senior high school program based on their levels in the educational process?”

In general we know that we in physical education are most fortunate because Dame Nature grades the age interests and characteristics for us. In general we know that rhythms, mime-

Digitized by AjOOQle
361

tics, singing circle and tag games are best adapted to the primary grades. We also know that self-testing events, achievement standards, stunts, tumbling and relays fit the ages nine, ten and eleven of the intermediate grades. The junior high school ages adapt themselves most readily to team games of all kinds. The herd or gang instinct is powerful during ages twelve, thirteen and fourteen—boys naturally form themselves into teams. Hence our job is to adopt a rich mass intramural program. We should expose the junior high school boys and girls to many types of games and sports of the low order team range such as captain ball, volley ball, dodge ball, soccer, etc., as well as football and basketball.

Of course there are many factors that contribute toward the formation of a graded program. It is not the purpose of this paper to discuss them in detail because we are all familiar with them. They are, however, [1] age interests and differences, 2] sex, [3] organic capacity or strength, [4J neuro-muscular skills, 5] previous experience, [6] physical examination, and [7] intelligence. There are other factors. Much has been written in our iterature recently by Doctors Rogers, McCloy, Brace, LaPorte, Cozens and Bovard in the methods and procedures for proper planning for graded programs. Educators will cooperate and support us in our work if we can show them an intelligent program of graded activities adapted to the needs of growing boys and girls. This means that we must adapt our activities to boys and girls and not adapt boys and girls to our activities. Activities exist for the student; not the student for the activities. We are teachers of human material.

Much is being done and yet more can be done. It would be a pleasure here to outline the splendid graded programs in Los Angeles, Oakland, Denver, Des Moines, Buffalo, Philadelphia, Cincinnati and many other cities too numerous to mention. However, the challenge of this need for graded programs is a pertinent one at this time.

Have we in education also forgotten the human factor and given our attention to the externals? During the past ten years we in education have given much attention to buildings, plants, curriculum making, procedures and methods. After all, these merely exist for one purpose; the education of the boy and girl. The child is our one subject. The old slogan, “To teach the child and not the subject," still holds good. This living, growing, changing, dynamic child is the important matter to be kept in mind. He is the common denominator. Classrooms, books, equipment and facilities exist not to teach history, arithmetic or science, but rather to teach boys and girls. Teachers are not instructors in history and literature, but teachers of youth. The profession of education deals solely “with the human factor in life." So have we also fallen in error and talked too much about educational machinery and technique and followed false values and neglected the real purpose for which they all exist, namely, to teach and prepare immature boys and girls for complete
362

living in a high-speed, industrial age where such complete living becomes more difficult each year.

The purpose of this article is fivefold:

1.	To warn us that we too in education have nearly lost sight of the real subject—the growing boys and girls.

2.	To remind us that we are too often trained in teaching subject-matter and frequently forget the child we teach.

3.	That we forget the oneness of the child and that our artificial divisions blind us to the fact that what he is today depends upon what he was yesterday and largely determines what he will be tomorrow.

4.	That besides being conscious of this oneness, we must also realize that certain ages have their emphases in the physical, mental and emotional life of the pupil.

5.	That the years of the junior and senior high school are of tremendous educational importance in the building of character and citizenship; in the training of taste and appreciations for the wise use of leisure; in the promotion of the love of Mother Nature and the sciences; and in the development of a fine, wholesome sex life.

It is best to close here because these articles are to be short and not exhaustive. Through their brevity we hope that the main thought might not be lost, viz., that we deal with human material and should therefore develop graded programs based on the many criteria for grading, and see to it that our activities are adapted to the different needs of our boys and girls.

Listerine and Other Mouth Washes

The following extracts from an editorial in the Journal of the American Medical Association are based on a report of the laboratory of the American Medical Association, supplemented by the reports of two competent bacteriologic investigations, concerning the most widely known and most extensively advertised mouth wash now before the public. But its very name Listerine debases the fame of the great scientific investigator who first established the idea of antisepsis and whose work led to the principle of surgical sterlization and asepsis. The vast income of the Lambert Pharmacal Company from this preparation is testimony to but one thing—that modern advertising pays regardless of the actual merit of the product, regardless of any scientific demonstration of lack of efficiency, regardless indeed of possible harm that may result from unwarranted confidence in any unproved method for the prevention of disease.

The president of the Lambert Pharmacal Company said in Printer’s Ink for March 26 that the company earned $115,000 in 1920, spending practically nothing for advertising; that it earned $7,132,412.55 in 1930 after spending approximately $5,-000,000 in advertising. It is significant of most proprietary medicinal preparations that the largest percentage of the income is

Digitized by kjOOQle
used for promotion, and, in many instances, the smallest percentage for the actual preparation of the product.

The statement by President John L. Johnston of the Lambert Pharmacal Company is enlightening in other respects. He points out that Listerine Tooth Paste failed because it had a Listerine flavor and that a change in flavor with a reduction in price made a success of the tooth paste. Scientific investigators have urged repeatedly that there is nothing to any tooth paste but the cleansing agent and a flavor. The president of the Lambert Pharmacal Company points out that dramatic advertising copy sells goods. He says nothing anywhere in his article about the quality of the goods. The success of Listerine has been due not only to the amount of money spent on advertising but also to the inspiration of Feasley, who first capitalized the beginning interest of the public in science and educated the people regarding “halitosis.” Previous to Feasley, American inhibitions would have made even the mention of bad breath in an advertisement unlikely. Editors considered physiologic functions vulgar and common and refrained from permitting any mention of such necessities in advertising. Today the entering wedge of the Feasley technic has made menstruation, feminine hygiene, birth control, defecation, hemorrhoids, halitosis, body odor and similar subjects the basis of most of the advertising in women’s magazines. This is the “health appeal,” the most significant appeal in modern advertising to a health-conscious but still hygienically ignorant public.

In a recent issue of one of the women’s magazines, some twelve different antiseptics were advertised to the public. Of these, only one had met the standards of the Council on Pharmacy and Chemistry of the American Medical Association. The remainder were direct attempts to exploit to the public with exaggerated claims the alleged prophylactic virtues of antiseptic substances, notwithstanding the fact that the claims were in every instance exaggerated and unwarranted by any scientific evidence. There is no evidence that any antiseptic will cure bad breath, since that is all too frequently merely the symptom of some infection or some physiologic disturbance. There is no good evidence that douching of the nose and throat even with efficient antiseptics will certainly prevent coughs, colds, influenza or sore throat. The effects of the antiseptic are momentary, old germs remain and new germs may enter shortly after the doubling. There is no evidence that any antiseptic will prevent seborrheic dermatitis or dandruff, since dermatologists assert the relationship of this disorder to constitutional factors, errors in diet and disturbances of the functions of the glands of internal secretion. There is not the slightest evidence that any tooth paste or mouth wash will prevent or cure dental caries, pyorrhea, gingivitis, or similar disturbances of the mouth and teeth, since here also the basic difficulty lies in the diet and in the lack of suitable dental attention. Thus for two reasons it has become the vogue among promoters of such preparations to couple the urging of their use

Digitized by L^ooQle
364

with the advice of regular visits to the dentist and the physician. This builds good will on the part of easily misled and unthinking members of the medical and dental professions and secures for the purchaser who complies with the advice the attention that may be needed to control his condition.

Even if Listerine and similar mouth washes were actually as antiseptic as their promoters infer, they would not accomplish what is claimed for them. All that any antiseptic substance can do, even those recognized by the Council on Pharmacy and Chemistry of the American Medical Association, is to remove, inhibit or destroy such germs as are actually in contact with the antiseptic for a sufficient amount of time. The supreme ridiculousness of the situation becomes apparent when it is realized that the antiseptic virtues of Listerine are so infinitesimal in comparison with better antiseptics as to invalidate even modest claims made for it. The scientific data in support of Listerine cited in the advertisements are based on the use of undiluted Listerine, whereas in actual practice most of those who use it dilute it from two to ten times. This diminishes the Listerine taste or flavor referred to by President Johnston. Moreover, the small bottle at a high price lasts but a short time if the material is used full strength.

As is emphasized in the report by the laboratory of the American Medical Association, the argument that Listerine kills 200,000,000 germs in fifteen seconds means absolutely nothing. Germs are mighty small, and a bathtub full of undiluted Listerine will no doubt kill as many germs as can be gotten into the bathtub, provided the mixture is made thoroughly. Moreover, this fact has absolutely no relationship to the possibilities of Listerine diluted one to three, gargled by an inexperienced gargler with a sore throat, even with the best of intentions. It is claimed that Listerine does not damage tissues; if it damaged tissues it might damage germs. However, as ordinarily used it has little if any specific effect on germs and therefore does not damage tissues.

What has been said of Listerine applies equally to a dozen or more “antiseptic” substances that have been brought into the market by other manufacturers who have perhaps envied the Listerine financial success. Amos and Andy seem to have made popular a tooth paste for which exaggerated claims have been made since its inception and whose composition has changed repeatedly since that time. Encouraged by this popularity, the manufacturers of Pepsodent have brought out Pepsodent Antiseptic. The advertising literature, and advertising claims, the composition and the method of promotion of Pepsodent Antiseptic resemble essentially similar material used in the promotion of Listerine. The manufacturers are careful to advise the use of Pepsodent Antiseptic undiluted whenever possible, urging this, as they say, in order “to get the complete benefits immediately.” Obviously such use makes certain of such minor effect as it has, and incidentally it uses up more “antiseptic.” There are no

Digitized by LjOOQle
365

data available to indicate that Pepsodent Antiseptic is an efficient antiseptic. From the standpoint of composition alone it would appear that there are many other antiseptics on the market which are more efficient. According to the firm's own advertising material the phenol coefficient of Pepsodent Antiseptic is exceedingly low.

In a recent issue of The Journal A. M. A. Allen and Wright reviewed current practice in the examination of antiseptics and offered for consideration certain opinions which are worthy of careful thought:

Manufacturers cannot be held entirely responsible for the making of exorbitant claims for antiseptics which they produce if the standards of evaluation permissible are the methods of two decades ago and the antiseptics of today. The innocent victims of this unfortunate situation are: [a] the mass of the public who have no choice but to believe what is stated plus what is inferred from the advertisements of these products; [6] physicians who are out of touch with the more critical scientific world and hence are in practically the same situation as the lay public in judging values of antiseptics; [c] even outstanding leaders in medicine and surgery who have not sufficient time nor equipment to carry on experimental work either in the laboratory or clinic, to determine for themselves the value of the antiseptics they may desire to use; they may be carried away by the names of a few of their colleagues, or institutions, or manufacturing chemists, whose temporary enthusiasm gives unwarranted support to new and inadequately tested products.

These investigators indicate a procedure for the testing of antiseptics which is likely to invalidate promptly the claims made for some of the most widely sold preparations on the market. Moreover, test tube experiments must be supplemented by clinical trials with suitable controls. In the mouth or in any other human orifice the antiseptic solution is mixed with and diluted by such secretions as may be present. This lowers antiseptic action. Until a procedure as efficient as that advocated by Allen and Wright, supplemented by proper clinical investigation, becomes current practice, the public and the medical profession will do well to put their faith only in such antiseptic preparations as have been submitted to the Council on Pharmacy and Chemistry of the American Medical Association and accepted for inclusion in New and Nonofficial Remedies by that council.

UNCONTROLLED MASS OF CELLS IS FORERUNNER OF

CANCER.

Cancer is a disease of cells. Since the normal cell has reproductive capacity, growth and repair go on of necessity under the influence of some definite mechanism of control. Yet no one has any adequate conception of the nature of that control. It can be interfered with to some extent by withholding certain vitamins or by disturbing internal secretion of the thyroid, pi-

Digitized by CjOOQle
366

tuitary and other glands. It is apparent, therefore, that some knowledge of the nature of the control mechanism is on its way; but for practical purposes the world is yet in ignorance of why cells grow and reproduce as they do.

Microscopic accidents occur at times by which control is lost over one cell or small group of cells. Such a mass of uncontrolled cells, growing without normal relation to the surrounding tissues in regard either to structure or to function, is called a tumor. Tumors are classified as benign and malignant. Benign tumors do not spread to other parts of the body, and they cause trouble in general only by pressure and mechanical interference. Malignant tumors grow by invasion and destruction of surrounding tissue. They push their way to other parts of the body where they lodge and cause additional tumors like the parent growth.

The intensive search for a germ causing cancer has been unsuccessful, and the nature of the disease, as science knows it, indicates clearly that cancer is not a germ disease, Dr. Alson R. Kilgore explains in the January issue of Hygeia.

BRAN

Bran seems to have been overexploited dietetically and therapeutically; to have become a sort of cult whose chief dogmas arc, that whole wheat bread is a better food than white bread, and that bran is a good general remedy for constipation. These dogmas are half truths. Whole wheat bread contains more minerals, vitamins and roughage than white bread, but the importance of this fact largely disappears when we consider how easily these deficiencies in white bread can be supplied from other common food stuffs. And against this doubtful advantage of whole wheat bread over white bread must be placed its relative disadvantages. It is less digestible than white bread; whole wheat flour does not keep as well as bolted flour; and the large content of roughage makes whole wheat bread harmful in many cases by causing excessive irritation of the intestinal mucosa and by aggravating morbid conditions. Popular judgment based on long continued and extensive experience is apt to be right; and popular judgment has been rendered in favor of white bread. Whole wheat bread has its virtues, including medicinal virtues, but there is no good reason why it should be preferred generally to white bread. Bran as a remedy for constipation is not of universal application. It may be useful in some forms of atonic constipation, but in the widely prevalent spastic varieties it is contraindicated; and it is also contraindicated in certain morbid conditions of the alimentary tube.

An American recently returned from a trip through Russia, where he had to eat largely the whole wheat bread of the country, says that foreigners from white bread-eating countries are apt to get dysentery from this coarse diet, as he did. The natives apparently, have a tolerance for this diet. We, no doubt, by prac-

Digitized by

Google
367

tice, could recover in time the ancestral tolerance for bran which we have largely lost. But the advantages of so doing are doubtful. Better is it for us to have a wide variety of food stuffs in our dietary which will supply roughage of various degrees of roughness to suit different bowel conditions.—E. E. G., Times and Long Island Medical Journal.

Health Education Notes.

Marco Polo Described Powdered Milk. Marco Polo tells in an account of his travels how the Mongols, a nomadic people, kept convenient food supplies for their many expeditions: “They have milk dried into a kind of paste to carry with them. . . . and when they go on a journey, every man takes some ten pounds of this dried milk with him and of a morning he will take half a pound of it and put it in his leather bottle, w ith as much water as he pleases. So as he rides along, the milk paste and the water get well churned together into a kind of pap, and that makes his dinner.”

This early story of powdered milk is retold by James A. Tobey, writing in the February	H

Arthritis and Rheumatism Synonomous. In nearly all instances arthritis is caused by a germ. The old theories of excess of red meat in the diet and uric acid as a cause are no longer countenanced; and such factors as dampness and exposure to cold, heredity and glandular disturbance, while extremely important as predisposing causes, are not really at the bottom of the trouble.

If the germ attacks the joints the disease is called arthritis; if the same germ attacks the muscle it produces myositis, of which lumbago is an example; if it attacks a nerve, neuritis results. Hygeia, Feb. 1933.

Motivation In Health Education. There is an excellent article on motivation in health education by Benjamin C. Gruen-berg in the February number of the American Journal of Public Health.

Ultraviolet Power To Destroy Germs. Automotive engineers meeting in Detroit, January 1933, saw a living single cell organism become paralyzed, blister, shrink and finally burst and die because light, of a wavelength slightly shorter than that which enables people to see, shone cn it.

This was the motion picture illustration used by Dr. Harvey

C.	Rentschler, research director for Westinghouse Lamp Company, to point out that ultra-violet light kills living cells. He suggested the use of this radiation as an antiseptic in hospitals. The germkilling power of the ultra-violet in sunlight has been used as a disinfectant.

Digitized by t^ooQle
368

Child Health Day—1933. The slogan for Child Health Day this year is MOTHERS AND BABIES FIRST. It was chosen by the Child Health Day Committee of the Conference of State and Provincial Health Authorities of North America.

At its 1932 meeting, the Conference took over full responsibility for the observance of Child Health Day, which means that the leaders of May Day activities in the future will be the state health officers of the United States. This has been one of the primary objectives of the American Child Health Association in relation to May Day.

Epidemic Influenza—Influenza is reported to be epidemic in the western and southern states and is rapidly spreading through the central states, being reported in large numbers as far as Indiana and Ohio.

Scarlet Fever Epidemic of 1932.—The most extensive epidemic of scarlet fever ever recorded in Philadelphia, or at least since the time that accurate statistics are available, occurred in the City last year. There were 6,549 cases and 48 deaths. The only other period which approaches that of last year was 1921 when 6,432 cases and 104 deaths occurred.

Epidemiologists have attempted to prove that certain communicable diseases recur in epidemic form at regular intervals or cycles. Although such cycles may be pointed out in the case of measles, which occur regularly every other year, yet such periods of regularity are subject to exception, just as are other statistical cycles in other lines of study, namely, the cycles of depression. In Philadelphia the scarlet fever incidence shows no regular cycle period.

Extent of Sickness.—On the average, each person suffers from about one illness a year and loses somewhat over one week a year as a result of illness; and that minor respiratory diseases, accidents and injuries, digestive disturbances and skin disease are the commonest causes of illness in the United States.

62nd. Annual Meeting American Public Health Association. The American Public B.ealth Association, foremost sanitary organization in the United States, announces its Sixty-second Annual Meeting, to be held in Indianapolis, Indiana, October 9-12, 1933.

The scientific program will discuss every aspect of modern public health practice, from the viewpoint of the health officer, the laboratory worker, the epidemiologist, the child hygienist, the industrial hygienist, the nurse, the vital statistician, the health educator, the food and nutrition expert, the sanitary engineer. Distinguished scientific pronouncements may be expected from the outstanding personalities in the public health profession who will contribute to the program.

Digitized by boogie
351

and the blood in taking up this amount of oxygen gains about 5 volumes per cent of that gas. During physical activity, however, the volume of air breathed increases much more than tne volume of blood pumped. The pulmonary ventilation may increase to 50 liters or more a minute, while the circulation increases to 20 or 25 liters. As an average, each corpuscle then makes the round of the circulation three or four times a minute. The air still loses about 5 per cent of its volume of oxygen, while the blood, if its stream is only half as large as the volume of air, would gain 10 volumes per cent of oxygen. These, broadly speaking, are the conclusions supported by evidence from many methods and numerous investigators.

The correctness of this estimate of the volume of the circulation during rest has been confirmed recently by Baumann and Lauter, who, in checking the ethyl iodide method, found that without injury to the patient blood may be withdrawn from the right side of the heart through a hypodermic needle inserted through the body wall, and by Klein, who has inserted a catheter through the jugular vein. When this blood is analyzed, it is found to contain about 5 volumes per cent less oxygen and 4 volumes per cent more carbon dioxide than blood taken simultaneously from an artery. These figures, combined with those for the oxygen absorbed and the carbon dioxide exhaled from the lungs, give all the data necessary for calculating the volume of the circulation by the so-called Fick principle used in an’mal experimentation.

While it is satisfactory to have this knowledge, it is extremely improbable that the method of heart puncture in man will become a common procedure for diagnosis or investigation. There is still great need, therefore, for a method for the indirect estimation of the volume of the circulation in man. Such measurements would probably be as significant and instructive regarding conditions of health and disease as are present determinations of arterial pressure and the electrocardiogram.

MEASUREMENT OF THE CIRCULATION

There have been many attempts to develop an indirect method of measuring the circulation. The pressures of oxygen and of cargon dioxide in the arterial blood are the same as in the alveolar air of the lungs; and this air, as Haldane and his collaborators showed, can be obtained by deep expiration. To determine the gas pressures in the venous blood returning to the lungs is more difficult. If air or, better, a mixture of oxygen and carbon dioxide is breathed, it tends to assume the gas pressures in the venous blood coming to the lungs. For technical reasons no reliable figure for the venous oxygen is obtainable in this way. But, as B.enderson and Prince showed, a fairly definite figure for the “virtual venous carbon dioxide pressure" is obtainable on trained subjects. Methods for estimating the volume of the circulation by means of these two procedures, for “arterial air” and “venous air," combined with determinations of the respiratory exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide, have been

Digitized by ooQle
352

extensively used in recent years and have produced valuable results. All such methods have, however, the great practical defect that they require the active cooperation of the patient who is being observed. They seem, therefore, to afford little promise for clinical use in the wide variety of problems now urgently demanding study.

The same limitation applies to most of the methods that have been suggested for estimating the volume of the circulation by inhalation of nitrous oxide, ethylene and acetylene. With all such methods the object is to determine how much of the gas is absorbed from the lungs and what concentration the blood holds. The observation is considered to be vitiated if it lasts so long that some of the blood that has once passed through the lungs returns holding some of the gas in solution. The whole procedure of inhalation and sampling is therefore completed in a fraction of a minute; and for this the active and even skilled cooperation of the subject is required.

One gas or vapor, namely, ethyl iodide, has a property which to some extent makes it usable without the cooperation of the subject or patient. It is decomposed in the body. If its decomposition were complete and instantaneous, so that none of the gas returned to the lungs in the venous blood, ethyl iodide would afford the ideal means for indirect measurement of the circulation for clinical purposes. Henderson and Haggard believed that such was the case, but a large amount of discussion and investigation by others has shown that nature has not provided in ethyl iodide quite so perfect a means of obtaining the object in view. While the substance is decomposed in the body, the decomposition is not instantaneous. Starr and Gamble have shown, however, that by rebreathing, even without the cooperation of the subject a sample of lung air in equilibrium with the venous blood in respect to ethyl iodide is easily obtainable. Along this line a method free from theoretical objection and clinically applicable is now being developed by Starr and his collaborators.

Even in its initial form the ethyl iodide method has found extensive alnd highly instructive clinical application in this country and in Germany. The figures for the relative efficiency of the circulation in health and in cardiac and other diseases obtained by this method agree satisfactorily with the results of clinical examination. Doubtless, in time, either by means of ethyl iodide or by some other technic, the problem of measuring the volume of the circulation will be solved as effectively as has bven tha„ of measuring arterial pressure. It will unlock many secrets.

THE FACTOR DETERMINING THE VOLUME OF THE

CIRCULATION

I will turn now to the broader questions: What determines and regulates the volume of the circulation in all the wide variations of bodily activity in health? What is the cause of the

Digitized by LjOOQle
369

Handcraft in Playgrounds and Recreation

Centers*

John C. Kieffer

Nature has kindly endowed children with fundamental urges which if exercised and directed will do much in developing them into happy, normal men and women. Among these urges is one to “make things”. From the very time when the child first shapes or marks the sand in the bin until the feebleness of old age stiffens the hands and fingers there seems to be this everlasting desire to manipulate tools and materials in a creative fashion. In some, to be sure, it is more pronounced than in others but there seems to be no doubt that it is profoundly affected by the favorable or unfavorable environment and culture afforded during childhood and youth. In any play or recreational program that is based on the individual's nature, his interests, abilities, and needs, it is essential that this urge to “make things” be satisfied. In satisfying it there are certain fundamental principles which must be kept in mind.

To be most interesting and valuable the things to be made should:

1.	Be suited to the ability and interests of the individuals engaged in the activity.

2.	Involve a variety of tools, materials, and manual operations.

3.	Involve the use of materials which are not too expensive either from the standpoint of the individual’s finances or those of the taxpayers.

4.	Be worth the effort in the mind of the individual making them.

Any handcraft instruction in the playground or recreation center to be most worthwhile should be so organized and managed as to secure optimum results with minimum expenditure of time, effort, and materials. To accomplish this requires the classification of the individuals into groups on the basis of ability and interest, and the formulation of programs of things to make which are suitable for each of these groups. It also requires the organization, training, and use of a corps of pupil leaders as assistants to the teacher.

I.	Projects Using Discarded Materials.

At no time during the rapid growth of the play and recreation movement has there been any more serious challenge to the administrator providing handcraft activities than during the current economic depression. The cost of supplying tools and materials has given added impetus to the search for suitable

*This is the first of a short series of articles on relatively little known handcraft projects which may be made at little or no cost.

Digitized by v^ooQle
370

things to make which require comparatively few tools and which utilize inexpensive or discarded materials. Continued experimenting has revealed a number of materials and projects [things to make] which seem to be very suitable in the light of these new conditions.

A. Hot Dish Mat

One of the projects which has always been very popular with children is the hot dish mat. Instead of using the expensive dextracotton or Sea Island twine as in years past an equally effective mat can be made from the string saved from packages, and from used milk bottle tops. For a mat approximately 7”xll” made in a diamond shape, sixteen tops are needed. These can be washed, dried, and accumulated from day to day until enough have been saved. After this has been done cut a hole one inch in diameter in the center of each top thereby making a ring of it. Then completely wrap each ring with string using a buttonhole stitch. After the rings have been wrapped tightly, arrange them in any of the patterns indicated in Diagrams Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, and fasten them together by sewing at the points of contact. If extra thickness is desired in the mat two or more rings can be laid upon each other and then wrapped or the rings may be wrapped with a double layer of string. To add to the attractiveness of the mat, colored string may be used and patterns in various colors can be worked out. The button-hole stitch used here for wrapping is done in the following manner: After first tying the string on the ring, hold the ring horizontally; bring the string from the under side of the ring and outside of it; put the end of the string through the hole [from the top] leaving a loop at “A”; bring the end of the string from the under side of the ring through the loop at “A” and draw tightly. [See Diagram No. 1],

B.	Shade pulls, Pendants, and Jewelry Boxes.

With the same button-hole stitch wrapping around rings cut from milk bottle tops, attractive curtain and shade pulls can be made.

By pasting or sewing a small photograph or picture in the center of tlx wrapped ring and fastening to it a ribbon or plaited cord, a very attractive pendant can be made.

A pretty little jewel case can be made by wrapping rings cut from milk bottle tops and sewing them together in the shape of a box. When the rings are fastened together the box can be lined with a small piece of silk cloth.

Thus a number of useful and pretty articles can be made from discarded bottle tops, string, and bits of cloth. The articles described here can be made by children as young as nine or ten years of age and may be made with pleasure by older folks as well.

C.	Rubber Dolls.

With the great number of automobiles in use today it is comparatively easy to get discarded inner tubes. These offer splendid material from which a number of useful things can be

Digitized by

Google
371

No. to

Digitized by LjOOQle
372

made. By tracing the outline of a doll similar to that of Diagram No. 7 on a piece of inner tubing, then cutting out two such forms, sewing up the edges with an overcasting stitch and stuffing with rags, a very serviceable and durable doll can be made.

D.	Rubber Table Mats.

Very pretty rubber mats for use under flower pots and lamps can be made by cutting out the desired shape and size from an inner tube and then painting some bright colored pattern on it.

E.	Bathing Sandals

Rubber bathing sandals can be made from inner tubes by tracing patterns similar to those shown in Diagrams Nos. 8a. 8b, and 8c, and then cutting them out of the rubber. By sewing the parts together with strong waxed thread or string the sandal is completed.

First the outline of the foot [without a shoe on it] must be traced on the rubber. Then draw a half inch margin outside and parallel to this outline. Cut out the form along the marginal line. Then cut an inch wide strip of rubber sufficiently long to reach from the inside of the foot across the base of the toes to the outside of the foot. [From “A” to “B”]. Sew the ends of this strap to the margins of the sole. Then cut a “Y” shaped piece of rubber which is at least 3 inches [depending on the size of the foot] wide from “C” to “D”, 2 inches from “CD” to “E”, and having two half inch wide strips [EF and EG] each 10 inches long. Along C-D sew this piece to the heel end of the sandal. C-D-E should then fit snugly against the back of the heel of the foot when the strips “EF” and “EG” are tied about the ankle. In this project the only tools needed are a pair of scissors, a pencil, a rule, and a needle. Older girls [about the age of 11 or 12 years] probably would be attracted most by this project.

F.	Rubber Door Mats.

A very practical and serviceable article that can be made from old automobile tires [shoes] is a door mat. Using a hack saw or sharp knife, cut up the shoe [preferably in the tread of the tire] into small pieces one half inch wide and two inches long. Then with a ten penny [or larger] nail and hammer punch holes through the sides of each piece near each end. These holes should bs in the same relative positions in each piece so that when wires are threaded through them to fasten the pieces together they match. Then with any pliable copper or galvanized wire approximately 1-6 of an inch in diameter fasten the pieces by interlocking them together and inserting the wire through the holes from A to B, C to D, and E to F, as indicated in Diagram No. 9.

This will make a door mat that will be as serviceable as an expensive one, one that will wear for many years. The project is most suitable for older boys and men. The only tools required are a strong, sharp knife [or hack saw], a large nail, and a hammer.

G.	Quoits and Horseshoes.

One of the popular activities in any playground is horseshoes or quoit pitching. However, with quoits costing two dollars and

Digitized by L.ooQle
373

upwards for a set of four and manufactured rubber or iron horseshoes equally expensive many children are deprived of this interesting form of play. This should no longer be the case for rubber horseshoes can be made from old auto tires. To be sure they are not exactly as good as the manufactured type but they provide considerable fun and enjoyment. They can be made by simply cutting one inch sections across the tire. [See Diagram No. 10] The cutting should be done with a hacksaw because in the beading of the tire are strong wires which cannot be cut by a knife or ordinary saw.

This project is particularly suitable for older boys and men. It requires only a hack saw.

H.	Door Stops and Window Wedges Handy door stops and wedges for rattling windows can also be made from old rubber tires by sawing out pieces of the shape and size shown in Diagram No. 11.

Old rubber tires may also be used for making rubber buttons on the bottom of table or chair legs, for making rubber snubbers or bumpers of various kinds, or for pucks to be used in hockey or for the throwing piece in hop scotch.

In the next article of this series, the use of common asbestos for modeling and artistic covering purposes will be discussed. In addition, other projects involving the use of inexpensive or waste materials will be described.

Swing Ball.

Invented by Max Breidenbach, Mainz, Germany.

Swing Ball is a contest between two opponents who try to strike each other with a ball suspended from the middle of an elastic cord which is held at each end by one of the contestants. The ball is like a small medicine ball about 2 pounds in weight. Dining the entire contest the ball is swung in a horizontal circle, the swing being interrupted only when the ball strikes an opponent. The contest involves much vigorous activity and it requires considerable skill, agility, alertness, and quick response. A very small space is needed.

Swing Ball should be welcomed as an addition to the all too meager list of interesting leisure time competitive activities which may be played by two participants.

The ball is swung with a circular movement of the hand from left to right, and is brought about not only by the arms, but with' the assistance of the entire body. The two players alternately incline the trunk forward while dipping the knees slightly.

The circular motion analyzed:

1.	The right hand is carried forward from the left shoulder, at the same time the trunk is inclined forward and the right knee is bent slightly. [1-2],

Digitized by t^ooQle
374

2.	The hand is pulled backward toward the right shoulder against resistance, bending the elbow, raising the trunk, and straightening the right knee. [3].

3.	The right hand is carried past the chest toward the left shoulder, the body leans backward, and the left knee bends slightly. [4].

4.	Then the circular swing begins anew.

The horizontal circular swing is the soul of this game. Until these swings are accurately and smoothly executed, one should not proceed with the technique of the game. The swinging can be performed with various speeds. At the beginning these swings will be more rapid because of the tendency of the player to cover up a faulty motion of the arm or to overcome a premature tiredness of the arm. When both players are able to perform the swings well, they are ready to try the attack by lunging forward from a stand.

The opponent parries such an attack in two ways:

1.	He moves the front foot backward, bends the whole body forward and permits the ball to pass by the chest in the semi-circle thus created.

2.	He bends forcefully backward, pulls with the elevated arm thus circling the ball upward and allows the ball to pass over the chest.

Note: The more surprising and rapid the lunge forward is made by the aggressor, the better chance he has to hit his opponent.

At first the contestants should try to hit each other with the ball without regard to the body part. Later they should aim at a definite region of the body. Accuracy can be attained by lunging forward and carrying the hand higher or deeper with a forward thrust. In this way one attempts to hit the opponent's shoulder, flank, buttocks, thighs, or lower legs.

In order that the opponent may observe if the ball really hits the place aimed at, beginners should not try to evade the ball. It is surprising how quickly one can acquire accuracy in hitting the opponent.

A good way to perfect an effective attack and defense while swinging the ball is the following: One player moves with small gallops left sideward, [away from opponent] the right side of the body sharply turned to the center line, the left arm elevated at an angle above the head [fencer's position], the entire body always on the alert and springy. The opponent advances with the same steps, to the center line in good position, but with an outstretched left arm. Then he retreats as the opponent advances.

The best way to attempt a scoring point is by the so-called “Lion's Leap”. This is done by advancing suddenly with a great leap toward the center line when his opponent is at the center line and he himself is retreating. In doing this, he lunges deeply forward, so that the upper trunk projects over the center line while pulling the ball forward.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
Digitized by v^ooQle
'	‘	376

Probably the most artistic phase of Swing Ball for attack as well as defense is the “Headpull”. ff one player attacks suddenly by means of the “Lion’s Leap", and the other cannot or will not retreat, he may squat down, or go into a deep lunging position at the same time pulling the ball in a big circle over his head directing it towards the partner. If the player attacked in this manner cannot retreat any more, which is usually the case, he must jump over the ball in order to escape a hit.

When attacking by means of a deep circular swing, the ball should be directed at the knees of the opponent. If at this moment, the opponent should again bend to a squatting position, he will receive a full hit. But, if he senses the intention of his antagonist, he will react quickly and leap over the ball.

The above described figures of attack and defense can be combined and applied as one sees fit.

The Playing Field:

The field [lane] is 8 meters long and 1 meter wide. By means of a cross line the field is divided into two equal halves. This center line constitutes the boundary which neither of the players may over-step. Nor should they step over the side lines. Duration of the Game:

It may be played as follows:

a.	According to rounds.

In this case the players should decide before the game starts:

1.	The number of rounds

2.	The length of each round.

3.	The length of intermissions between rounds.

4.	The number of rounds, if any, to be played with the left hand.

b.	Until a certain number of points have been scored [without time limit]. In this case it should be determined how many points must be scored against an individual before he is declared the loser.

Scoring:

Scoring is done on the basis of number of hits registered. Various hits are scored differently:

1.	A hit on the wnst of the playing hand does not constitute a point.

2.	A “partial hit” which touches the body only ..lightly— 1 point.

3.	A “full hit” noticeable on the break of the swing—2 points.

Touching of the cable does not count as a hit.

Form and technique of the players may also be counted in the score.

Violation of Rules:

Activity ceases and then starts anew after any of the following violations:

1.	When a player steps over the boundary line.

2.	When a player steps over the center lin<_.

3.	When there is faulty swinging.

4.	When a player stalls [delays] the game.

Digitized by AjOOQle
377

5.	When the ball touches the floor.

In case of repeated violations, the referee may penalize the player by scoring pointjs against him.

Syncopation Dance.

By Martha Gable.

In the April 1932 issue we began the publication of a series of selected numbers from the Demonstration Program of the Philadelphia Convention of the American Physical Education Association.

One of the outstanding numbers of the program consisted of a group of six “Dances Representing Several Periods In American History”. The first four dances in this group, the Indian Dance, the Colonial Dance, the Western Ranch Dance, and the Early Twentieth Century Dance appeared in the last four issues. The Syncopation Dance is the fifth in the group. The final dance, the “Modern Dance” will appear in the April issued EDITOR.

Music: Any regular Fox Trot

Units and Number of Participants: The dance is arranged for 40 girls and 40 boys divided into 4 units as follows:

Two front ranks of 22 pupils each.

Two front ranks of 18 pupils each.

Note: In each rank boys and girls are arranged alternately. Formation: Four front ranks, forming a large rectangle. The members of the ranks face outward [toward the audience]. Audience: Audience is seated on all four sides.

AUDIENCE

ENTRANCE AND EXIT-

III

O

Q

D

<

ENTRANCE AND EXIT

aoNaianv

Digitized by CaOOQle
378

Entrance Step

The ranks enter from their respective corners in front rank formation, pupils’ arms are raised sideward with hands on neighbors’ shoulders. Each rank enters sideward, the right side leading.

[See Diagram].

Step right sideward	1

Shuffle left sideward [A shuffle consists of a brush forward and backward with the ball of the foot.]	and

Hop on left foot, raise right foot in front of left knee, right knee turned outward	2

Repeat	3	and	4

Step right sideward	5

Shuffle left	and

Cross-step left in rear	of	right	6

Step right sideward	7

Cross-step left in front of right	8...........2	Meas.

Repeat all until on stage..............................6	Meas.

Part I

Step right sideward	1

Brush the left foot forward and backward [shuffle]	and	2

Step on the ball of the left foot and immediately transfer weight to the right foot [falling step]	and	3

Repeat counts “and 3”	and	4

Hop on left foot, place the right toe on the floor in rear	•	and	5-6

Hop on right foot, place the left toe on floor in rear	and	7

Hop on left foot, raise right leg in rear	8

Repeat twice	9-24

Break:

Step right	25

Shuffle left	and	26

Falling step right	and	27

Step left in front of right	28

Kick right to heel of left	29

Hop on right foot, raise left leg forward	30

Slap left foot on floor in front of right	31-32..

Part II.

Step left, tap right toe close to	left foot	1-	2

Step right, tap left toe close to	right foot	3-	4

Step left	5

Shuffle right	and	6

Step on ball of right foot, transfer weight to left foot [falling step]	and	7

.8 Meas.

Digitized by CjOOQle
379

8

9-24

Bop on right foot Repeat 3 times Break:

Bop on left foot Slap right foot forward Repeat right Three stamps, rt. left, rt.

Bold

Part III.

Step right Shuffle left Falling step right

Bop on right foot, left leg raised in rear

Repeat to left

Step right

Shuffle left

2 falling steps right

Shuffle left

2 falling steps right

Bop on right foot, left leg raised in rear Repeat above 16 cts. beginning to left Repeat all

Part IV.

25

26

27-28

29-30-31

32...........8	Meas.

1

and 2 and 3 4

5-8

9

and 10

and 11, and 12 and 13

and 14, and 15 16

17-32

33-64.......16	Meas.

Step right in place	1

Touch left toe to floor '	2

Bop right, raise left knee	3

Step left in place	4

Shuffle right	and	5

Falling step left with 1-4 turn left	and	6

Close right to left with 1-4	turn	left	7

Bold	8

Repeat 3 times	9-32...

Part V.

Step right	1

Tap left toe to floor close to	right	foot	2

Repeat left	3-4

Step right	5

Shuffle left	and	6

Falling step right	and	7

Bop on left foot, swing right leg diagonally forward and to rear	8

Step right in rear of left	9

Step left sideward	10

Balf turn left and place toes of right foot forward on floor	11

Lower heel to floor	12

Tap toes of left foot forward	on	floor	13

Lower heel	14

Repeat left	15-16

.8 Meas.

Digitized by

Google
380

Repeat all, beginning left	17-32

Repeat right and left	#	32-64.......16	Meas.

[Finish facing right in a flank line]

Exit

Place hands at waist of person in front.

Hop on left foot, raise right leg diagonally forward	1

Brush right foot backward and immediately step right backward	and	2

Repeat on right foot	3 and	4

Hop on left foot	.	5

Brush right foot backward	and

Five small steps backward right, left, right, left, right	6 and	7 and 8

Repeat, begin on	right foot	9-16

Repeat until offstage.

Costumes for Syncopation Dance Boys — White shirts with black bow ties Blue army sweaters White trousers Black shoes Girls — Light blue ribbons in hair

Short sleeve, short-waisted light blue sweaters White skirts White ankle socks Black Mary-jane slippers.

News, Notes and Comments.

Public Criticism Of Physical Education. Evidence to be found everywhere very definitely points to one major significance, and that is that where physical eduaction has been wisely administered, and every home has felt its results, the people are defending its place in education. It has been interesting, but alarming as well, to hear some of the criticisms made about physical education in the schools. Here are some examples of these criticisms: There doesn’t seem to be much teaching going on—the teachers strut around in the gymnasium and on the field in their street clothes—the big after school program we hear so much about is a myth—it costs more than any other program —why doesn’t the superintendent of schools give a detailed report

of the physical education program-------why are so many well paid

physical education teachers engaged in officiating at games for attractive fees and yet complaining of the length of their teaching schedule? Needless to say, some of the choice -bits of dissatisfaction which have come to light during these stock taking times are difficult to defend.

It is absolutely necessary for everyone to double his or her efforts in planning constructively and teaching effectively. There

Digitized by Google
381

must be more thought given to the service which needs to be rendered and less to clock hours. Keep informed about the cost of your department, and improvise and economize in equipment as much as possible. The law of the survival of the fittest will operate with its usual force.—	News Letter, Mass. Bur. Phys. Edu.

The question of whether or not sportsmen are more prone to illness than non sportsmen has often been raised. Doctor Rerzheimer, in writing on this question in a German medical journal, states: "Our present knowledge does not warrant a definite answer. The claim many times made that highly trained sports followers become easy prey to infection has never been substantiated. That an over trained—that is, a damaged body— is easier infected is a clearly proven biological consequence, but that has no bearing whatsoever on the body of a healthy and well trained sportsman.”— iNewsLetter, Mass. Bur. Phys. Edu.

Leisure Time. These are days when the intelligent and forward looking physical educator is giving due thought to preparing all of his pupils for the best use of leisure time which is certain to increase rapidly in the future. An important phase of this work is the education of school, municipal and state authorities.

The Melting Pot. The United States isn’t in the League of Nations, but South River Righ School’s football team had an embryo “league” of its own this year.

The blood of 11 races flowed in the veins of the lads who comprised the team that took the Middlesex county title the second straight year.

Here’s the “league” lineup: Irish, Polish, Jewish, Greek, Russian, French, Negro, Indian, German, Scotch and Hungarian. [A. P.]

A Famous Dancer Passes. Madame Espinosa, one of the most famous of Victorian dancers, died in England on February

4.	She was 84.

Our Sculptor Colleague. A symbolic memorial commemorating the service of Jane A. Delano, director of nurses during the World War, and the 296 nurses who died during that conflict is nearing completion in the studio of Dr. R. Tait McKenzie in Philadelphia.

When completed the memorial will be placed in the garden of the American Red Cross Headquarters in Washington, D. C., and will probably be unveiled on Memorial Day.

Volunteer Service In Recreation. The National Recreation Association has just issued an especially valuable nine page pamphlet covering in a practical way all phases of volunteer service in the recreation movement. The pamphlet may be ob-

Digitized by CjOOQle
382

tained for ten cents. It is the beat thing we have seen for a long time. If wide publicity can be gained, great valu< wiH result.

American Legion Supports Recreation. The American Legion, Department of Michigan, has called to the attention of its many posts the opportunities they have to serve the youth and the adults of the state by aiding the promotion of programs of recreation and athletic activities. “For them participation in clean, wholesome athletic activities will always be one of the best means of development of good sportsmanship, good citizenship, and healthy living.” Let us hope that the Michigan posts will take a firm stand and strong action in the matter; and that their brethren in other states will follow suit.

Parents Object To Curtailment In Physical Education.

By a vote on 1,230 questionnaires in Needham, Mass., the parents have put themselves on record for kindergartens, drawing, music, physical education, sewing and cooking, and manual training. So far as physical education is concerned, 87 parents voted for discontuar.ce, 1,125 for retention, and 18 failed to vote. We hope that a similar showing might be made in all parts of the country.

Sports lhat Have Survived. The Associated Press recently asked the sports writers and editors of the country the following question: “What sport do you consider to have best survived business conditions this year?” College football, it was found, headed the list. Baseball was second, golf third, professional wrestling fourth, professional hockey fifth, tennis sixth, boxing seventh, basketball eighth, horse racing nintr., professional football tenth, the Olympic Games eleventh, professional bike racing twelfth, high school football thirteenth, bowling fourteenth, swimming fifteenth, track and field athletics sixteenth. Athletic Journal.

Curtailment in Physical Education.—According to Dr. James F. Rogers, Office of Education, Washington, the following figures are final for returns regarding eliminations and curtailment in physical education up to the close of 1932:

“Of 2,180 places, having a population of 2,500 and over reporting to the Office of Education, Department of the Interior, only 22 have canceled the physical education programs of their schools and only 59 have curtailed their expenditures along these lines.”

Recent Observations in Serum Disease.—Luke W. Bunt, Chicago [Journal A. M. A.. Sept. 10,’ 1932], studied the records of serum disease as observed in the Durand Hospital since its establishment, nineteen years ago, and discusses in a brief manner some of the pertinent questions. Serum disease occurred in

Digitized by kjOOQle
383

28.1 per cent of 2,859 patients who received diphtheria antitoxin, in 22.7 per cent of 858 patients who received scarlet fever antitoxin, and in 81.8 per cent of 55 patients who received anti-meningococcus serum.

Laxatives.—Sometimes six or seven stewed prunes taken daily will make powerful cathartics unnecessary. Add to this, ten ounces of orange juice daily.—Med. Times and Long Island Med. Journal.

Hand Washing in Schools.—From a survey of handwashing facilities in 145 schools in 15 states, The Cleanliness Institute learned that 44 per cent furnished hot and cold water, 57 per cent furnished soap, and 70 per cent had some form of drying equipment, while only 31 per cent supplied all the above facilities for cleanliness.

PROGRAM—ANNUAL MEETING OF THE MID-WEST PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION, WICHITA, KANSAS, MARCH 29 TO APRIL 1, 1933.

Tuesday, March 28th and Wednesday, March 29th.

Annual meeting of the Mid-West Association of Directors of Physical Education for Women in Colleges and Universities.

General Theme: “The Adjustment of the Program of Health and Physical education to Meet the Present Situation.”

Wednesday, March 29th Morning: Visit schools Afternoon:

2:30 Automobile tour of city 4:30 Executive Committee Meeting 5:00 Council Meeting 8:00 General Session and Dance Presiding, Mr. Strong Hinman, President, Mid-West Physical Education Association and Supervisor of Health and Physical Education, Wichita, Kansas.

Greetings: Arch Booth, Secretary, Wichita Chamber of Commerce—L. W. Mayberry, Superintendent of Wichita Public Schools.

Address: Dr. Karl Leib, Professor of Economics, University of Iowa, on “The Present Situation.”

Thursday, March 30—States Day Morning:

9:15-10:30 General Session Presiding, Dr. Margaret Bell, Vice-President, Mid-West Physical Education Association and Head of Department of Physical Eudcation for Women, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan,

Address: “Health Education in the Present Situation” by James E. Rogers, National Recreation Association.

10:45-12:00 Section Meetings 12:00-1:45 State Luncheon

Digitized by v^-ooQle
384

Afternoon:

2:00-3:30 Section Meetings 4:00-5:30 Section Meetings Evening:

7:00-12:00. Banquet, Indian Music, Dance.

Friday, March 31—Kansas Day Morning:

9:15-10:30 General Session Presiding, Mr. Emil Rath, Immediate Past President, Mid-West Physical Education Association, and President Normal College, A.G.U., Indianapolis, Indiana.

Address: Dr. E. Lindley, Chancellor, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas, on “Recreation in the Present Situation.”

10:45-12:00 Section Meetings 12:00- 2:00 Reunion Luncheon Afternoon:

2:30- 4:00 Section Meetings 4:00 Meeting of New Council Evening:

8:00-10:00 Demonstration of Physical Education 10:00-12:00 Exhibitors’ Dance

Saturday, April 1st Morning.

9:15-10:30 General Session Presiding, Mr. Elmer Mitchell, Secretary, American Physical Education Association, and Associate Professor of Physical Education, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michgian.

Annual Business Meeting

Debate-Dialogue, Dr. S. C. Staley, Director of Physical Education for Men, University of Illinois, Urbana, and others, on “The Physical Education Program in the Present Situation”.

10:30 Meeting of New Executive Committee.

10:30-12:00 Student Session.

Presiding, Miss Elizabeth Halsey, Head of the Department of Physical. Education for Women, University of Iowa, Iowa City.

Hotel Rates Very Reasonable

Other Convention Features:

Mary Wood Hinman, Internationally known dancing authority.

Indian Music by Thurlow Lieurance, Dean of Fine Arts, University of Wichita, and His University of Wichita Orchestra.

James E. Rogers, Director, National Recreation Association, New York City.

Dr. C. H. McCloy, University of Iowa.

Dancing and other social get togethers provide a place to make new acquaintances.

If you plan to travel by railroad, be sure to get a certificate when purchasing your ticket. One hundred tickets must be presented to Birch Bayh at the Convention before you can benefit by one-third fare on the return trip.

Digitized by LjOOQle
are followed by chapters on normal [?] posture, body mechanics, postural examination, posture in physical education, and corrective exercises. The book is concluded with statistics, a summary, and a bibliography. The material on body mechanics, postural examination, and corrective exercises will be of especial value to physical educators.

The numerous illustrations have been carefully selected, and they assist the reader materially in reaching a clear understanding of the message conveyed by the book.

Games and Game Leadership by Charles F. Smith; 6”x9”, clothbound, 658 pages; published by Dodd, Meade and Co., New York; price $2.50.

Of the many books dealing with games that have appeared in the last few years this one is outstanding. Its merit lies not only in the excellent selection of games but also in the thorough treatment of how to present and manage them. The whole book gives evidence of a profound understanding of play and human nature. Excellent sketches and diagrams, references listed in the book, numerical and alphabetical indexes, and references to National Recreation Association literature help to make the book more useful.

The first chapter gives as sensible and comprehensive a discussion of the leadership of games and recreation as can be found anywhere in a dozen pages. In the following twenty-seven chapters may be found descriptions and discussions of games for children, home and automobile recreations, informal ball games, tag games, circle games, relay races, duel contests, recess and school playground games, schoolroom recreations, mental recreations, stunts, musical games, social games, paper and pencil games, rotative party games, social mixer games, dramatics for parties, picnic activities, treasure hunts, woodsy activities, fire building and cooking, games for Cubs, games for Scouts, and water sports.

This book is so extensive in the range and variety of content, so sound and practical in its discussion of theory and practices, and so well organized that it will serve admirably the needs of leaders of play in many different forms and situations.

“Fun In Bed”. The Convalescent’s Handbook; Edited by Frank Scully. Clothbound, 7”x9”, 187 pages. Price $2.00. Published by Simon and Schuster, New York.

Although this book is intended for convalescents or bedridden invalids, it contains hours of enjoyable relaxation and amusement for the mentally ill or weary as well as for the physically disabled. Humorous stories, jokes, sketches, tricks, puzzles, satires, hospital anecdotes, taken together in inviting rapidity make a fine antidote for boredom that accompanies imposed in-• activity. A little of the risque of the medical or hospital variety, might prevent the universal acceptance of this book as a tonic for all. However, to one desiring amusement, recreation, and relief from monotony “Fun In Bed” can be highly recommended.

John C.

Florence R. Bacon,