MIND AND BODY

^ Vol. 42

ARIL 193S

No. 427

The Heart and Athletics

By William G. Leaman, M. D.

Associate in Medicine in Charge of Cardiology, Woman’s Medical College of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia. Physician-in-charge Cardiac Clinic Woman's College Hospital, Philadelphia. Ass't Visiting Physician, Philadelphia General Hospital, Philadelphia. Ass’t Visiting Physician Out-Patient Department [Cardiac] Pennsylvania Hospital, Philadelphia. Physician to the Student Health Service, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

Nearly a century ago, at the beginning of the modern era of , collegiate athletics, James Hope, in a book on “Diseases of the Heart and Great Vessels” expressed the opinion that boat racing at Oxford and Cambridge and violent gymnastics have caused

-	/ “rupture and inflammation of the aortic valves and aorta, issuing

in incurable organic disease. . .(he continues] I have also known pedestrian tours among the Swiss and Scotch Mountains to be ■a followed by hypertrophy and other diseases of the heart. „ iJt is £ protracted efforts that are always most pernicious. Feats t>f this ft kind should always be discouraged.”

K* A similar stand was taken by Peacock in 1864 when he claim-£?'- ed that cardiac hypertrophy and subsequent failure amongst a . Cornish miners resulted solely from overwork. In 1870 Clifford |i • Allbutt6 wrote on “The Effects of Overwork and Strain on the ■v. Heart and the Great Blood Vessels”. He claimed that long continued exertion caused right heart failure and dilatation; and that sudden strains were productive of wear and tear in the aortic area. In 1888, Roy and Adami's experimental works# seemed to lend support to these claims and chronic thickening of the

-	• cardiac valves due to mechanical strain was described at length

in their book. Adami in 1911 stated that he believed the nodose arteritis seen in elderly subjects was associated with thickening of the valve leaflets and both, in his opinion, resulted from r mechanical strain. In 1898 and 1909 Allbutt4 retrenched enough • to admit that the influence of the toxic and infective factors was R difficult to eliminate in these cases and sounded the first modem note in his conclusion “the importance of muscular effort asja factor in cardiac injury has been much exaggerated.”

However, there were no concurring opinions and reviewing

Reprinted from International Clinics, Vol. Ill, Series 44, Copyright, 1934, J. B. Lippincott Company.

F ■■ ■*- ’

Digitized by

Google
2

the literature up to 1915 we find the old idea reechoed many times. Bardeen7 in 1915 stated “ALL COLLEGE STUDENTS TAKING PART IN MAJOR SPORTS HAVE HYPERTROPHIED HEARTS. While in many cases the compensation is good, in a large number there is myocardial irritability sometimes accompanied by mitral murmurs which indicate somewhat serious lesions”.

In 1915 Shumaker and Middleton41 stated, “Athletic training leads to physiological hypertrophy of the heart, but when prolonged and marked by severer athletic contests it usually leads to hypertrophy plus dilatation to a variable degree frequently marked by valvular insufficiency—There is reason to believe that for normal human activities an athletic heart is distinctly disadvantageous”.

Since this time, with the exception of a few pioneers crying in the wilderness, little attention has been given the subject in the literature of England and America. An extensive foreign literature is available but it contains many conflicting opinions. Consequently, the subject of the heart and athletics remains rather hazy in the minds of many. The prescription of exercise for damaged and undamaged hearts shows a surprising lack of uniformity in the various university centers. The functional, apical, systolic murmur continues to consign good athletes to the side lines. In these cases, even in the absence of hypertrophy or any supporting sign, cardiac involvement is suspected and even the mildest forms of exercise are prescribed with hesitation and uncertainty, indicating total lack of knowledge of the newer concepts of cardiovascular disease.

Since heart disease leads the list of causes of death in our country to-day and its prevention is a favorite topic of discussion amongst the profession and laity, it is unfortunate that many still flounder in this sea of difficulty. The sustained interest of both sexes since the conclusion of the World War in all forms of athletic activity places the question of the heart in its relation to competitive sport squarely before the Health Services of our Universities. Curiously enough, the rising tide of interest in sports and their effect on the heart has been paralleled by revolutionary changes in our concepts of diseases of the circulatory system. With Mackenzie and Lewis as leaders, a newer Cardiology has sprung up in which valve lesion and murmur are relegated to the background and the heart muscle assumes major importance. We have reached the time when the older ideas, especially the erroneous assumption that “the athletic heart” is a clinical entity, must be discarded and our judgments must rest on the sounder foundations of the newer concepts. If progress is to be made we must all adopt the same criteria for diagnosis and classification and to do this we must revise our beliefs in regard to certain physiological principles. We must stop and take stock of our knowledge and sift out the proved facts from the mass of erroneous data that has been handed down to us as an heritage from the past. In this short survey we will consider the prob-

1

Digitized by CjOOQle
3

lem from many angles and accept as true only what observation has firmly established.

To begin with let us consider the normal heart of an athlete at the end of a hard race. We will look first at the clinical picture. We see the runner gasping for air, we note his pale pinched expression and a rapid, weak pulse. He perspires freely from a cold body. If the exhaustion is more severe we may see him lying on his side, occasionally doubled up, complaining of abdominal pain. There may be nausea, even vomiting, and sometimes unconsciousness. Is this the picture that we describe as HEART STRAIN? If we stop and analyze these syniptoms we will find that we have very little evidence that the circulatory system is at fault. We will come to the conclusion that the term “heart strain” is a much misused expression. When the term “strain” is used in connection with a skeletal muscle I conceive of a stretching or tearing of the muscle where it meets its tendon or of the tendon itself. I can picture the rupture of a few strands of muscle with subsequent soreness and stiffness at the site, but I cannot believe that the same injury occurs in the musculature of the heart. Nature protects so vital a structure from injury so easily produced. Moreover, such an injury has never been seen POST MORTEM in healthy hearts. We do meet rare cases of'rupture of the wall of the heart but rupture does not occur unless the area has previously been diseased, usually infarcted as the result of coronary occlusion. Authentic cases of spontaneous rupture of the HEALTHY heart have never been reported. Gould and Pyle,27 the classic collectors of the oddities of medicine, state that there is a “species of rupture of the heart which is not traumatic and in which rupture occurs spontaneously, the predisposing cause being a. . .pathological process in the cardiac substance” and add that “the older instances of what is known as ‘broken heart’, which is still a by-word, were really cases in which violent emotion had produced rupture of a degenerated cardiac wall.” Barth has collected twenty-four instances of spontaneous rupture of the heart and in every instance the seat of the lesion was in the left ventricle where the heart wall is usually the thickest. So we can conclude that here too the rupture occurred through a degenerated, most likely infarcted, area.

Likewise, rupture of a healthy heart valve occurs rarely if ever and cannot be produced by severe exertion or “strain”. When it does occur the valve has been previously weakened by disease. Take a section of healthy aorta with its semi-lunar valves in place and raise the pressure to the breaking point. You will see the slender, thin aortic valve leaflets hold fast while the thicker aortic wall will stretch, split and then give way. If similar experiments are tried with healthy mitral and tricuspid values the artificially increased pressure leads to stretching and regurgitation through the valve orifice rather than rupture of the tough valvular tissue. We may safely conclude from this evidence that severe, sudden exertion in the athlete will not produce “strain” or muscle injury to the heart, such as we see in the
4

skeletal muscles, nor will it damage or rupture the valvular leaflets.

Even the sudden death of an athlete at the finishing line [which happily is an extremely rare event] does not necessarily incriminate the heart. It may conceivably occur from an overlooked persistent thymus or may be brought about by the mechanism of vagal inhibition. If the day is excessively warm and the race closely contested the possibility of heat stroke or exhaustion must be kept in mind. May there not exist, also, under these dramatic circumstances, a condition closely akin to surgical shock? The psychic strain is certainly tremendous, particularly in the much advertised stars, before and during a hard race and is it not possible that the nervous system may be at fault and not the cardiovascular? Surgeons are notably “heart conscious” and are inclined to blame all sudden deaths during or just after operations on the heart. Here, too, the effect of the nervous system and the ductless glands in producing the state known as “shock”, has been overlooked. The toxins of infection, diphtheria excepted, leave in their wake not so much direct cardiac disability as a distinct loss of tone in the vasomotor system and it is this latter condition which hinders the successful performance of violent exertion. Earlier exhaustion in athletes has been noted by us many times at the University of Pennsylvania when they have been permitted to resume activities too soon after recent infections, notably influenza.

Acute cardiac dilatation is the most popular diagnosis advanced to account for the symptoms observed in the athlete at the end of the race. Indeed, this has been a very fashionable diagnosis and has enjoyed widespread popularity, mainly because accurate methods of investigation have not been used. Reports have been based on the percussion of the hearts of athletes—a most unreliable method especially in heavy set, well developed men. Percussion usually gives a larger cardiac outline than the roentgen ray and this may be the main reason why the heart of the athlete has for many decades been wrongly suspected of showing hypertrophy presumably due to exercise. However even when the roentgen ray is used to determine cardiac size the results of various investigators, particularly results reported in the foreign literature, show a wide difference of result. Errors in technique are mainly to blame, for instance, comparing plates taken at different phases of reparation on the same athlete for heart size. Diaphragmatic position as well as the tube distance must be carefully watched when the method of teleoroentgeno-graphy is used. Orthodiagraphy is the method of choice at the University of Pennsylvania Student Health Service to determiue cardiac size of athletes and when carefully performed is cheaper and better suited to our needs.

Immediate examination of the hearts of athletes with the roentgen ray as they fall exhausted over the finish line shows heart shadow which is not that of acute cardiac dilatation; in most instances the shadow is ACTUALLY SMALLER THAN THE
5

NORMAL Richards,3T and later Gordon,26 by a series of pictures on marathon runners show that all hearts are smaller immediately after the race and return to normal size during thee course of a day. Experimental studies on animals25 which have been properly carried out and controlled seem to show a smaller heart when the point of exhaustion is reached. So we must abandon the term acute cardiac dilatation when referring to the cause of exhaustion in athletes with normal hearts. Even without the experimental proof which I have mentioned the idea should appeal to us as being anatomically unsound. The heart is limited in its power to dilate, especially if the process is acute, by a tough fibrous sac known as the pericardium. If we perform Muller’s experiment* under the fluoroscope we can see the heart dilate to the limit of its pericardial restraint and assume normal size as soon as the experiment is discontinued; and if healthy it is none the worse for the experience. We can see the same thing in the experimental animal by clamping the aorta for a monent. When the pressure is released the heart immediately goes back to its normal size. In pericarditis with effusion we may have the heart and as much as 1000 cc. of fluid contained in the sac. Last month at the Philadelphia General Hospital I removed 750' cc. of fluid from a pericardium. But in these cases the dilatation of the sac comes on gradually and in addition the tissue is weakened by the disease producing the effusion [in the case in question tuberculous pericarditis] and so we are not dealing with the normal.

The cause of the smaller heart size observed in the athlete after sudden exertion taxes our power of speculation. The skeletal muscle when subjected to over-use shows cramp and stiffness due to diminution in blood supply. The overaction with the attending imperfect oxidation gives a swelling of the skeletal muscle fibers with tension of the sheaths. Later there develops the painful stiffness so commonly met with in those unaccustomed to exercise. We cannot conceive of this phenomenon occurring in the healthy heart. It is a vital organ, necessary for the survival of the organism, constantly beating with relatively short rest periods and with a more abundant circulation. It is tempting to explain the smaller size of the healthy heart after severe exertion to an excess of lactic acid,37 but it is far from a proved fact that this occurs.

Lewis33 has come to the conclusion “that the burdens imposed by physiological acts upon the normal heart, however heavy these burdens may be, never injure the heart fibers, never produce injurious dilatation and never exhaust the heart’s reserve.” We must accept this explanation on the base of experimental proof at hand. The heart of the normal athlete is an organ with a reserve far in excess of the organs and systems it supplies. It cannot be strained because other bodily mechanisms have

*] Prolonged expiration made and chest emptied of air. With glottis closed a violent and prolonged effort at inspiration is made.

Digitized by v^ooQie
6

lower protective thresholds. For example, skeletal muscle cramp or cerebral anemia will set in and stop the athlete before the heart gives out. Lately more knowledge of the effects of hypoglycemia has led us to attribute to that syndrome the condition of the athlete at the conclusion of a race. The blood sugar levels of runners forced to drop out of marathon races has been pointed to as supporting evidence of this theory. On numerous occasions it has been found almost to approach the levels at which unconsciousness comes on.

We must, therefore, take into consideration all of these mechanisms before we blame the symptoms of dyspnoea, rapid pulse, exhaustion or even coma on the heart. Consider always the fact that nature surrounds and protects the heart by a series of defensive barriers because the heart is so indispensable to life.

One of the most discussed and interesting questions relating, to the problem of the heart in athletics is the so-called chronic enlargement supposedly resulting from strain long continued and referred to for ages past as “athlete’s heart”. If we approach this problem by studying the hearts of lower animals and drawing conclusions from what we observe in them we may easily be misled. Clark12 shows some striking differences in the heart ratios of active and inactive animals and shows that dogs bred for speed have higher heart ratios than ordinary dogs. Likewise Fox21 has shown that quiet birds like the owl have smaller ratios than active fliers. This author also describes hypertrophy of the heart in captive wild mammals and birds22 but cautions us that the essential character of these changes is open to dispute in the absence of proof that some unrecognized previous infection or toxemia did not exist. Since there are some striking differences in the physics of the circulation in the lower animals, particularly in birds, we must be on our guard and not draw general conclusions too readily. However, if work hypertrophy occurs among the commoner beasts of burden, we should reasonably expect to find the Pathological Museums of our Veterinary Schools crowded with these specimens. Inquiry reveals that this is not the case.

Studies by Gordon,24 Richards87 and our own observations at the University of Pennsylvania all show quite conclusively that enlargement of the heart of healthy athletes does not occur- even when the period of training extends over many years. Consequently, we do not believe that participation in college athletics even over long periods of time predisposes to cardiac enlargement and to the disability which commonly comes to those with large hearts. We cannot deny that the heart muscle develops the same as any other muscle and benefits from exercise which it needs whether healthy or diseased. In consequence of this development there is, it is true, an increase in size BUT THE AMOUNT OF THE INCREASE IN SIZE RELATIVE IN THE INITIAL BULK IS SMALL. We know that the heart does not enlarge with exercise in the same ratio as skeletal muscle, but even though we assume that it does, still the increase in size as we note it under the fluoroscope falls far short of the enlargement commonly

Digitized by LjOOQle
7

seen as the result of disease. We must admit at this stage of our discussion that concentric hypertrophy of the heart may be present and escape recognition under the fluoroscope but THIS FORM OF HYPERTROPHY IS CERTAINLY A RARE OCCURRENCE AT POST MORTEM.

Gordon26 concludes from his careful study of marathon runners that many years of training and competition does not cause cardiac enlargement. Pancoast, likewise, after examining the chest plates of many athletes notes no cardiac enlargement in any of them. He observes that among them was one of the world’s greatest runners, who showed no cardiac enlargement in spite of the fact that one lung was almost obliterared by pleural thickening and adhesions. The examination of transcontinental foot runners who ran 3434 miles in eighty-four consecutive days showed heart diameters within normal limits. Blumer9 notes that the examination of the celebrated pedestrian Weston revealed no abnormalities in his cardiovascular system. Our experiences at the Student Health Service at the University of Pennsylvania parallel these observations.47 The only large hearts we have seen in athletes have been those secondary to previous rheumatic infection or obvious valvular lesion.

The relationship between active participation in school or college athletics and the early development of cardiovascular degenerative changes is another problem deserving a moment of time in this discussion. The sudden death of a man in middle life who had previously been a world’s record holder will be widely discussed and cited as ah example of the ill effects of athletics on the cardiovascular system in later life. Hundreds of his colleagues who engaged in the same form of training at the same university and who ran in the same races will be forgotten and their records uninvestigated. Careful studies of athletes in later life are rare in the literature. J. E. Morgan86 in his analysis of the first twenty-four Oxford and Cambridge boat races from 1829 to 1869 both inclusive, in which he obtained information from all of the 255 living members of the crews except four, showed that there is little appreciable difference in, the mortality from heart disease among university oarsmen and other men of corresponding age. Edgecombe,18 also, after careful inquiry into the histories of a large number of university oarsmen showed that they are no more shortlived than normal men nor are they prone to die of heart affections. At the University of Pennsylvania we have begun a system of cardiovascular study of athletes which include an accurate check up of the condition of each participant, not only by frequent fluoroscopic and electrocardiographic studies during his college life but also a follow up record of his health and activities in after life. Following out this plan we hope in the future to collect abundant data which may shed additional light on this rather unsettled question.

The sustained interest in all forms of athletic activity in America should impress upon each University group the duty of providing the equipment necessary to carry out a complete study

Digitized by <^.ooQle
8

of the cardiovascular system of all athletes. The usual methods of percussion, a blood pressure reading, and auscultation no longer suffice. Especially in the well developed is chest fluoroscopy needed accurately to determine the cardiac size and shape. Routine electrocardiograms are indicated in those students displaying any of the arrhythmias or who give a history of antecedent rheumatic infection.

A special form for this study is now in use at the Health Service at the University of Pennsylvania [Fig. 1]. As you will note it includes a complete survey of the past medical and family histories. The family history we sometimes find of great value when called upon to render a decision as to the advisability of engaging in athletic competition. Should one or more members of the family show evidence of early cardiovascular degenerative changes, we are apt to study the athlete more closely and to note in detail his response to exercise. In this group special attention

FIGURE 1 Age Height Weight

Date

NAME Address: U. of P.

Home HISTORY Previous general state of health

Has Heart disease ever been diagnosed before [when and by whom?]

Colds Tonsillitis Tonsils Removed Chorea

Growing Pains Rheumatic Fever Thyroid Disease Kidney Disease Athletic History: Sports indulged in Endurance Any Family History of: Heart Disease Kidney Disease High Blood Pressure Tuberculosis General Condition at Present Fatigue Shortness of Breath EXAMINATION Type of Individual: Build

Physique Thyroid	Blood	Pressure

Heart Outline Auscultatory Findings Other Findings Electrocardiogram Orthodiagram DIAGNOSIS:

Recommendations:

Scarlet Fever Diphtheria Pneumonia Influenza

Recent Loss of Weight

Operations

Other Illnesses

Pain Over Heart Palpitation

Type of Chest

Pulse

Digitized by i^ooQle
9

should be paid to any abnormal blood pressure elevations if long sustained. The blood vessels of the eye grounds should be examined frequently in the hope that they may reflect early changes occurring in the cardiac and renal capillaries. If we carry out these examinations carefully and guard' against focal infective and toxic factors we may obtain valuable data to guide us in coming to a just decision.

When we have completed the cardiovascular examination of each athlete full opinions are written on the history sheet based on all the findings. We weigh the evidence, give our decision AND TRY TO DO THIS UNHESITATINGLY for we find that indecision on the part of the examiner plays havoc with the mental condition of the athlete. Possibly the marked success of the irregular practitioner in treating and handling athletes lies in the impatience of the athlete with the wavering opinions of the regular practitioner. The irregular practitioner depends upon the rule of thumb and his ignorance of pathology is an actual advantage.

A careful Health Service will examine all candidates before competition. The exercise should then be fitted to the man and not the man to the exercise. The type of sport should be advised which will fit the type of build and the* exercise tolerance. The advantage of this system, which is the method now in force at the University of Pennsylvania, is that it does not develop a few stars at the expense of the many who languish on the side lines. We believe that the virtue of competitive sports is in the development of the mental and physical well being of the players and not in the entertainment of the spectators.

Diseased hearts deserve to be carefully and completely w studied. These students should not be sent out with the cautiously imparted knowledge that they have “heart trouble” and should “take it easy”. They need exercise and careful grading of their exercise.' They should be studied from the standpoint of the functional capacity of the cardiac muscle. We cannot deny the fact that athletics also have a definite value in the treatment of certain forms of cardiovascular disease. Special swimming is the type of exercise we have developed for this group. In these students, when compensation is good, we may be gratified to observe some decrease in the heart size after participation in the graded exercises designed to fit their tolerance. The summary of the first year of our results with this interesting group, including a proposed classification in regard to exercise tolerance, has been published elsewhere.47

A prescription of rest in the case of the student whose only finding is an apical or pulmonic systolic murmur is indeed RADICAL ADVICE. He misses thereby much that college life offers— the companionship of his fellow athlete, the sportsmanship that competition develops and the beneficial effects of sports in building his body; for we cannot deny that properly regulated athletic training increases the pump action of the heart, assists the blood and lymph flow, increases the vital capacity, stimulates metabolic

Digitized by t^ooQle
10

activity, develops a higher resistance to bacterial invasion and if well regulated will act as a psychic diversion and improve the tone of the central nervous system. If the student is denied these advantages on the basis of a single incomplete [often only auscultatory] examination of the heart, he will grow up with the belief that he is physically inferior. Psychiatrists tell us that this may prove a serious blow to character formation. The growing boy’s whole attitude toward life may be adversely influenced, to mention nothing of the possibilities of the effect of the lack of exercise on the tone of the cardiac and skeletal musculature.

SUMMARY

1.	Heart strain is not possible in a healthy heart. The syndrome now masquerading under that name is a result of the conditions in the body as a whole. Strain of the heart in the sense of rupture of its muscle or valves is unproved and not tenable on the experimental evidence at hand.

2.	The normal heart does not enlarge permanently in response to athletic activity long continued. The so called “athletic heart” is a misnomer. When the heart is found enlarged in athletics it is secondary to a previously existing but unrecognized infection or the result of a valvular lesion.

3.	Participation in athletics does not predispose to the early development of cardiovascular disease.

■	4.	In	dealing	with	the	heart	in athletes detailed cardiovascu-

lar examinations should be made of all candidates before active participation in the various sports. The examination should include an electrocardiogram and fluoroscopy. A follow up system should be instituted after graduation and the records obtained should be kept active as long as possible.

5. The prescription of exercise should depend on the result of this thorough investigation and the functional efficiency of the myocardium should be the guiding beacon.

References

1	ABRAHAMS, A. ‘'Exercise and the Medical Man,” Practitioner, London,

126:566-573, 1931.

2	ABRAHAMS, A. ‘‘Athletics and the Medical Man,” Practitioner, London,

86:429-446, 1911.

3	ABRAHAMS, A. ‘‘Heart Strain,” St.Barth. Hosp.J., London, 26:31, 1918-

1919.

4	ALLBUTT, SIR C. ‘‘Over Stress of the Heart,” Syst.Med.Allbutt and Rol-

lesion, 80, London, 6:193-252, 1909.

5	ALLBUTT, SIR C.: St. George9s Hosp. Rep., 5:23, 1870.

6	BAINBRIDGE, F. A. ‘‘The Physiology of Muscular Exercise,” Longmans,

Green and Company, p. 58, London, 1919.

7	BARDEEN, C. R. ‘‘The Effect of Athletic Sports on the heart,” J.A.M.A.,

61:1657, 1913.

8	BISHOP, L. F. ‘‘Athletics and the Heart,” M.Rev.of Rev., 36:603-608, 1930.

9	BLUMER, GEO. ‘‘A Discussion of the Deleterious Effects of Competitive

Athletics,” Albany Med.Ann., 38:151-163, 1917.

Digitized by Google
11

10	BRAMWELL, C., AND ELLIS, R. “Circulatory Mechanism in Marathon

Runners,” Quart.J.Med., 24:329-346, 1931.

11	CARTER, J. M. G. “Heart Strain. Its Result and Treatment,” Illinois

M.	J., n s. 3:576-583, 1901-1902.

12	CLARK, A. J. “Comparative Physiology of the Heart,” Macmillan, N. Y.,

1917.

13	COLE, N. B. “Present Day Opinion Regarding Relationship between Ath-

letics and the Heart,” Am.Phys.Educ.Rev., 33:571-577, 1928.

14	COUGHLIN, R. E. “Athletic Life in Its Relation to Degenerative Changes

in the Cardiovascular System,” Med.Rec N.Y., 77:574-578, 1910.

15	CONKLIN, C. B. “Stucjy of Cir. Sys. of 150 Adolescent Girls,” Virginia M.

Monthly, 58:435-449, 1931.

16	DANZER, C. S. “The Cardio-thoracic Ratio: An Index of Cardiac Enlarge-

ment,” Am.J.M.Sc., 67:513, 1919.

17	DEUTSCH AND KAUF [Warfield transl.] “Heart and Athletics,” C. V.

Mosby Company, St. Louis, 1927.

18	EDGECOMBE, W. “Strain of the Heart,” Practitioner, Londbn, 56:87-89,

1921.

19	EWART, W. “The Soldier's Heart and the Strained Heart,” Brit.M.J., i:218

1916.

20	FISHER, T. A. “Natural Experiment in Cardiac Strain,” Brit.M.J., 2:1441,

1909

21.FOX, II. “Comparative Pathology of the Heart as Seen in the Captive at the Philadelphia Zoological Garden,” Trans.Coll. of Phys., Phila., pp. ISO-145, 1921.

22lFOX, H. “Disease in Captive Wild Mammals and Birds,” Lippincott, Philadelphia, 1923.

23 FROST, H. M. “The Response of the Cardiovascular System to Respiratory Exertion,” Boston M.&S.J., 191:853, 1924.

24-GORDON, B. “The Effect of Exercise on the Circulation and Respiration,” J.M.Soc. NewJersey, 27:672-674, 1930.

25	GORDON, B., AND STRONG, G. F. “Studies on the Rabbit's Heart.

Effect of Vigorous Exercise on the Size of the Normal and Abnormal Heait,” Arch. Int. Med., 32:425-434, 1923.

26	GORDON, B., LEVINE, S. A., AND WILMAERS, A. “Observations on a

Group of Marathon Runners,” Arch.Int.Med., 33:425-434, 1924.

27	GOULD AND PYLE “Anomalies and Curiosities of Medicine,” Saunders,

Philadelphia, 1897.

28	HAHN, HERXHEIMER, AND BROSE “Condition and Life Expectation

of Former Athletes,” DeutscheMed.Wchnschr., 51:892, 1925.

28	HONAN, J. H. “Primary Heart Strain,” J.M.A.Georgia, 7:171-175, 1917-

1918.

29	HOPE, J. A. “Treatise on Diseases of the Heart and Great Vessels,” Ed. 3.,

p. 245, 1839.

30	LEE, R. I. “Athlete's Heart,” Nelson Loose Leaf Medicine, London and

N.	Y'., 4:652, 1920.

31	LEWIS, T. “Diseases of the Heart,” Macmillan, 1933.

32	LEWIS, T. “The Soldier's Heart and the Effort Syndrome,” Hoeber, N. Y.,

1920.

33	McVEY, W. E. “Effects of Modem College Athletics on the Heart,” J.

Kansas M. Soc., 10:179-182, 1910.

Digitized by ^.ooQie
12

34	MARTIN, A. “Curable Heart Disease or Adolescent Heart Strain/* New

Zealand M. J., pp. 220-223, 1900-1901.

35	MORGAN, J. E. “University Oars,*’ p. 29, 1873.

36	RICHARDS, T. K. “Observations on the Hearts of Men Engaged in

Athletics,** J.A.M.A., 94*1988, 1930.

37	ROLLESTON: “The Harveian Oration,** Cambridge Univ. Press 1928.

38	ROY, C. S., AND ADAMI, J. G. BrU.MJ., 2:1321, 1888.

39	RUSSELL, W. “The Right Side of the Heart and Its Relation to Over-

strain,** Brit.M.J., 1:873-875, 1916.

40	SHUMACKER, L., AND MIDDLETON, W. S. “Cardiac Effects of Im-

moderate College Athletics,** J.A.M.A., 62:1136-1144, 1914.

41	WEST, S. “Heart Strain with Some Remarks on Training and Other Allied

Cardiac Conditions,” Practitioner, 87:137-146, 1911.

42	WILLIAMSON, C. S. “The Effect of Exercise on the Normal and Patholo-

gical Heart,” Am.J.M.Sc., 49:492, 1915.

43	WILLIAMSON, C. S. “An Experimental Study of Carcfiac Overstrain/*

Med. Herald, St. Joseph, 34:205, 1915.

44	WILSON, E. E. “The Heart of the Athlete, Its Prospect and Protection,”

Pennsylvania M,J., 19:83-94, 1915-1916.

45	WOODS, R. S. “Disorders and Accidents of Athletes/’ Practitioner, London,

125:411, 1930.

46	HARRIS, S., AND LEAMAN, W. G. “Rheumatic Heart Disease in College

Freshmen. A Clinical Survey of 1,130 Students. I—A Preliminary Report,” Unpublished manuscript.

Profits and Losses in Physical Education During the Last Fifty Years

William Gilbert Anderson, M. D., M. P. E., Dr. P. H., Director Yale Gymnasium—Emeritus

FOREWORD

In placing the question of PROFIT AND LOSS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION “before the house” it is essential, that to have a clarification of the status, we present arguments pro and con with which many of our readers are already familiar. We are well aware that physical education, as such, has been recently attacked by some of the so called intelligentsia on the ground that not enough good is accomplished to warrant its place in the modem curriculum. Even among the proponents of rational somatic development, we find those who hold the brief that little progress is being made.

I am, in writing on this subject, going to lay before the reader opinions which have come to me after six decades of actual experience, personal contact with leaders, teaching and much travel.

I have been a teacher for fifty-five years, still in the harness and retain enough vitality, thanks to physical education, to continue for another decade, unless I am careless when crossing the streets.

Digitized by i^ooQie


/

13

At no time during this more than one half century, has there been so much uncertainty, uneasiness and controversy among educators, as we find today. A few lines pertaining to Abraham Flexner’s UNIVERSITIES will be illuminating. “It hurts Dr. Flexner’s sense of proportion to find that a Columbia degree seems to imply no discrimination, so far as credit for graduation is concerned, between, on the one hand, science, mathematics, language, literature, history, philosophy, and economics, and, on the other, advertising research, practical poultry raising, elementaiy stenography, newspaper practice, book reviewing, wrestling, ju-jitsu and self defense, food etiquette, hospitality, gymnastics and dancing for men including practice in clog dancing”. To him this seems an appalling situation.

“Cooking, wrestling, typewriting and tap dancing, should not be placed on an intellectual par with music, science, literature and economics.”

Columbia is not the only offender. The old graduates of Yale are disturbed when they read from the catalogue, that Latin and Greek may be replaced by modem languages as requisites for admission to this University.

I	can only refer briefly to the contention now rampant, because if such conditions exist in the field of education, this very fact should dull the edge of criticism against uncertain procedure in physical education.

THE AGE OF EDUCATION AND THE AGE OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

In England, Walter of Merton began to found his Oxford * College in 1266. The first college of the University of Cambridge was founded by Hugo, Bishop of Ely, in 1257, but there was a school there as early as 635 or exactly 13 centuries ago. At Pavia, in Italy, the University was founded by the grandson of Charlemagne, in 825 or 1110 years ago.

From the very beginning there has been unceasing wrangling.

It is not necessary to dwell at further length upon the old age Universities of Europe, France, Italy or comparatively young America, for these figures are given to show how antique intellectual training is.

Now let us compare with these twelve or thirteen centuries, the age of modem rational physical education. The efforts made many years ago in our modem institutions of learning were spasmodic and ephemeral. The work at Yale and Harvard was crude and unorganized. The Germans in this country had started their Tumvereins, 1825-1826, the history of which is easily available.* I will not, therefore, refer to the German pioneers. Among Americans, the actual so called scientific methods in physical training started about fifty years ago, consequently, we are still in swaddling clothes or have just entered the kindergarten when comparing our experience with that of educators who go back hundreds of years. Hence there is nothing surprising

*] See MIND AND BODY, May, July, Nov., and Dec., 1906.

Digitized by boogie
14

in the fact that our very infancy will lead us to make mistakes; but our ambition, efforts and desires will help us make satisfactory progress.

The subject of physical education is becoming more and more complex. This is shown by the following—the craze for degrees which leads every normal school of physical education in the country to give a four years course leading to a Bachelor’s diploma, or to become affiliated with some University or College. I hold no brief against this, but I do interject this statement, that it is not an easy matter to select topics pertinent to somatic development in order to build such a curriculum. Only experience will solve the problem and this we are getting: and furthermore we are being guided by minds that are mature and intellectual.

Another step that adds to the complexity of physical education is the affiliation with the departments of health in our universities and colleges. Where such a step is taken, the former seems to want to control the latter to too great an extent, and if we now add athletic sports, with their cultures, committees, and strong appeals to youth, my assertions are strengthened.

This trio seems to form a three legged stool upon which we place our search for health.

In 1919, I wrote letters to Arthur T. Hadley, Yale President and to Secretary Anson Phelps Stokes, asking that the three activities at Yale be made one. My replies were favorable, but it was not until about ten years later than this was done. So today the department of University Health is associated with and controls the gymnasium, all athletics and physical training. A very wise procedure and successful withal.

Theses.

It is not hard to discover knots in the yarn, but it is with difficulty that we untie them. Destructive criticism is easy, but constructive suggestions are very different. This is the only apology I will make for what may seem criticism of the modem disputations, whether coming from the intellectual or the physical field of education. I know quite well whereof I speak, because I look back with combined pleasure and dread to the time when I wrote four of these essays which represented so much original research investigation, study, reading, writing and travel. I composed these treatises for my Doctorate in Medicine from the Western Reserve, for my Master of Science and Master of Arts at Yale and for my Doctorate in Public Health from Harvard, the last being the most pretentious, and covering between three and four hundred pages. I do not believe that anyone ever read these contributions, aside from the committee of awards, and even there I “hae me doots”.

In the Yale library are hundreds and hundreds of these theses tucked away and dust covered. I understand that in order to receive high degrees in physical education, one must write a dissertation upon a scientific subject selected by the committee and accepted by the individual. I do know that when this
15

work has been done and the judgment rendered, the work of the author too often reposes on the top shelf.

Arguments Contra During the last ten years, the advocates of rational bodily betterment, have been called upon to face charges that our special work included frills and fads and was therefore not worthy the position which it holds. The great cost of teachers, gymnasia, equipment, swimming pools, athletic fields and boats, mean the expenditure of millions of dollars. The depressionist used every argument available to show that the results were not worth the cost, but to far as I can see he has not won the battle.

It is true that there are too many young, inexperienced and verdant physical training teachers, but this has always been the case in mind development. That over attention and cost of athletics have provided ammunition for the antagonist. High priced coaches, whose stimulating influence has often been questioned, are targets for the “slings and arrows” of those who wish to relegate the whole thing to the background.

The monotony of gymnastic drills is referred to. If drills are not interesting, and I admit this is often so, they find a parallel in the intellectual schedules of our schools and colleges. Plato, Aristotle, Homer, Socrates and Xenophon, are all unappealing at times, so are the writings of Cicero, Caesar, Vergil and Tacitus, but it does not follow that it is a waste of time to study the ancient classics, although I do recommend modem languages.

If subjects are to be dropped because uninteresting, then fifty percent of the curriculum topics will go by the board. I believe in the value of training whether of mind or body even if this discipline is unappealing.

That heart diseases are caused by over exertion in athletics, that athletes die young and that the academic standing of contestants is low, have yet to be proven.	>

President Angel 1 and Professionalism.

President Angell in his Washington Birthday address to the Alumni said, among other things:—

“However satisfactory we may regard the conditions inside our own little Yale Eden, no one committed to the maintenance of reputable standards for collegiate sports can fail to feel deep concern at trends widely prevalent elsewhere. Not that we would wish for a moment to adopt any “holier than thou” attitude. But we have in the last few months been treated to an unblushing defense of proselyting and of hiring athletes for college sports which surpasses anything we have previously known. Hitherto it has been good form to pretend to virtue, even if one had it not. Now there is a frank admission of practices a little since denied and of defense of the procedure on various grounds. The commonest and most blatant justification runs somewhat as follows:—Winning teams fill the stadia and produce gate receipts, which we need and mean to get. We can only secure winning teams by hiring good players of whom there are plenty in the

Digitized by Google
16

market. So why be squeamish? We propose to do openly what our opponents do secretly and by indirection.

Such a position is at least honest in its frankness; but, if it comes to prevail generally, our colleges will have sold their birthright for a peculiarly offensive mess of pottage.”

Today there are too many American schools. This means the yearly addition of hundreds of young men and women to the ranks. I believe it is perfectly safe to say, that less than fifty percent of these new graduates are placed.

The Arguments Pro

There are a number of arguments to be considered when we speak in defense of physical education and while most of them are well known, it is necessary when studying “profit and loss” that we rehearse a few.

Fifty years ago there was one central German Normal School [The Normal College, N.A.G.U.] and only three or four American Institutions. Today there are about four hundred.

The faith in rational physical education is both enhanced and indicated by lengthening the courses to four years and then adding two or more years if the Master’s degree or the Doctorate is sought.

The affiliation of Normal Schools of gymnastics with colleges is desirable.

There is no question whatever about the increased attention to athletics, basketball being the outstanding example.

Now if we add to the list of young graduates the older and more matured, who are able to write books and to produce convincing scientific treatises on subjects allied to health and physical education we strengthen the protagonistic discussions.

The growth in the number of periodicals, publications, magazines and books.

The cooperation of university health departments with physical education and athletics.

The many summer schools devoted to physical betterment.

The summer schools for coaches only, especially football.

The German Associations, the A.P.E.A., the College Society of Physical Directors for men and women, the National Collegiate Athletic Association, the Y.M.C.A. and the Y.W.C.A. Associations, the Northwestern District, the Southern and Central Districts, the Administration Directors, the Midwest District, the Collegiate Student Health Society, and, oldest and strongest, the Eastern Section of the A.P.E.A.

I have not included all, but have tabulated enough to lead us to consider the tremendous increase in membership and the stimuli produced.

The competition among Normal Schools.

The A.P.EA,. or Mother Society, was bom fifty years ago, at which time there were forty-nine members. Today the membership in the association is about seven thousand.

My article would be incomplete and unsatisfactory if I failed to mention the assistance of the foremost German Turners who

Digitized by i^ooQie
17

helped organize these various societies. Members of the North American Gymnastic Union —[consisting of Tumvereins], read papers, entered into the discussions, held offices and were most enthusiastic in placing the societies on a strong foundation. I was secretary of the Eastern District Society for a number of years, was a member of the N.A.G.U. and I take pleasure in paying this brief, but sincere tribute to the German Turners.

The Physical Basis of Psychic Activity

I	have long contended that neuro-muscular exercise of the right kind tends to develop the entire body, especially as it sends blood not only to the organs, but to the cerebral substance and that a balance between blood supply and growth or development is as certain to follow as the continued contraction of the biceps will strengthen and enlarge that particular flexor of the elbow joint. If movements are selected for the neck there will be an arterial blood supply to the brain. I will not enter into any controversy here regarding the increase in the size of the cerebrum or cerebellum, but the arterial circulation is certainly increased and the chemical changes which accompany this will result in better brain substance. My argument, therefore, is that the man who exercises, plus right living, will have better mind machinery than the man who does not actively stimulate the heart. I further add here to the tenet that if a man has a good brain substance, he is better equipped to train the mind, the mind machinery being the brain.

This disputation has been ably presented by Prof. Angelo Mosso of the University of Turin. I strongly urge any person interested in the relation between mind and body to read Prof. Mosso’s booklet, entitled PSYCHIC PROCESSES AND MUSCULAR EXERCISE. A very convincing paper, which he read at the Decennial celebration, Clark University, Worcester, Mass. 1889, lends force to my statement that the cerebellar substance is bettered by additional blood supply. The dissension caused by my statements is based upon well known facts, namely—that professional gymnasts, acrobats, boxers, wrestlers and strong men are non-intellectual. My reply is “we expect this because these are the last men to devote any time to the training of the mind”. But I feel sure that if this class of athletes would live clean lives, which most of them do not, would be careful of their eating, to which they pay no heed, and would eschew alcohol, they would be lifted from the low grade and weakened morale which is too often associated with them.

My own experience impels me to say, that too many of the professional strong men violate most of the laws of hygiene, and with fare exceptions they are short lived. It is true that here and there we find exceptions, and I could devote this entire article to a recital of the fine records made by noted university athletes who have followed the laws of “seeing straight.”

I	could fill one complete number of MIND AND BODY with laudatory, biographical and deserved encomiums, were I to include German, American and Swedish leaders in physical education.

Digitized by LjOOQle
18

It seems to me that the last scintilla of doubt would vanish if I said of these men and women what Dr. Rudolf Hofmeister of St. Louis said of Mr. Emil Rath during the testimonial dinner given at the Indianapolis Normal College on Nov. 30th. Let me quote briefly because of its appropriateness to other eminent persons. “You have been defined as gentleman, friend, leader, teacher, scholar, master performer, artist, writer and author. You have been characterized as sincere, earnest, devoted, loyal, courageous, scientific, philosophic, idealistic, altruistic, enthusiastic and inspiring. Only a Master could merit such recognitions.

-----—Because of your courageous pioneering spirit in the field

of physical education, through these hectic and chaotic years of rapid growth and uncontrolled expansion, because of your wholesome influence and inspirational leadership during this critical

period-----you are held in highest esteem, by your students and

co-workers who place you tonight at the very pinnacle of your profession.” If there were any uncertainty about our progress in physical education, we would not have these words of praise from such eminent authorities.

It leads me therefore, to affirm in closing that, with the exception of a few setbacks, there is, in my mind, no doubt whatever about the progress that has been and is being made today. The criticisms represent only notches in an ascending scale towards success, and my verdict is, that the arguments favorable to rational physical education, in its best and most comprehensive sense, outweigh, overwhelmingly, the attacks of its antagonists.

What Does Your Basal Metabolism Tell

You?

[A simple yet scientific explanation of basal metabolism]

By Chi Che Wang, Children’s Hospital, Cincinnati.

I.	WHAT IS METABOLISM?

“Oh, doctor, would you mind telling us what metabolism means?” is one of the questions that I have been asked again and again, especially by visitors of the Hospital on Donation Day. The word “metabolism” somehow sounds so formidable that it seems to frighten many laymen who hear it for the first time. However, I have no doubt that the majority of us are interested in knowing what happens to the foods after they are eaten and how well our bodies handle them. Metabolism means nothing more than the processes going on in our body through which we are kept warm and active, through which the foods are changed into body tissues or used up, and by which the waste products are eliminated through the lungs, skin, kidneys and intestines. As an engine needs coal or other forms of fuel to heat it up and make it go, so our body needs food to keep it warm and to enable us to work. There is one difference between the engine and the body, that is, the body can keep going for

Digitized by LjOOQle
19

quite a while without food, while the engine cannot. The engine becomes cold the minute its fuel is burnt up, whereas a man can live for several days without anything but oxygen from the air. This difference is due to the fact that the engine is usually made of materials which cannot be used as fuel while the body has nearly the same composition as the food it uses. Although a man can live without food for a short time, his body weight is decreasing steadily, because he is burning up his own flesh as fuel.

II.	WHAT IS BASAL METABOLISM?

Basal metabolism means the minimum amount of heat that the body is producing, that is, when it is burning only enough material to keep it warm and not enough for it to have any activity. It is obvious that the amount of fuel needed to keep the engine barely warm is much less than that which is required to make it go. Thus, in driving an automobile, if one does not step on the gas, the car will slow down and then idle. Consequently, in order to measure the basal metabolism of a man it is absolutely necessary for him to be strictly quiet, that is, lie in bed with nothing to eat and with nothing to worry about. If the body makes any movement, the metabolism would be high and would not be basal metabolism.

III.	HOW IS BASAL METABOLISM MEASURED?

There are several methods to measure it, but the simplest way is to determine the amount of oxygen which is required in the body to bum the fuel. Just as we know that if an automobile can go ten miles on a gallon of gas, by measuring the amount of gas a driver has used, we can tell approximately how many miles he has driven, so by measuring the amount of oxygen breathed in we automatically measure , the amount of heat produced by the body, or its metabolism. In order to find the amount of oxygen used, it is necessary to place some sort of airtight apparatus over the person’s mouth and nose so that the amount of air breathed in is carefully measured. From that the oxygen in the air, which is about 21 per cent, is calculated and the heat or energy produced is determined.

IV.	HOW DOES BASAL METABOLISM VARY IN NORMAL PEOPLE?

The basal metabolism varies with size, age, weight and sex of the person. Here again the body may be likened to an automobile. A Ford requires much less gas per mile than a Cadillac so a small person requires less oxygen, consequently less fuel, and produces less energy per hour than a large person. The total heat production per 24 hours of a child is usually less than that of an adult and the younger the child the less it is. As the child grows, the basal metabolism increases rapidly, especially during the adolescent period, until he reaches maturity, when the basal metabolism remains stationary for a few years and then begins gradually, but very slowly, to decline. As a rule, the female sex has a lower basal metabolism than the male, about 12 per cent. In this case, it is probably due to the fact that females have
20

more fat than males and fatty tissues are inactive. Basal metabolism varies with the amount of active protoplasm and, therefore an athlete has a higher basal metabolism than a school

pljlQQT’nftrYI ‘f'AJlpVlAT

V.	WHAT ARE THE CONDITIONS THAT WOULD CAUSE A CHANGE IN BASAL METABOLISM?

If something is wrong with the carburetor in the automobile, it may require more gas to make the car go. So, several diseases affect the basal metabolism. One of the most important ones is so-called hyperthyroidism, which means that the thyroid gland is producing too much secretion, thus stimulating the body tissues to use more oxygen and to produce more heat than they should. Consequently, this disease would make the person have a high basal metabolism. On the other hand, the same gland may not produce sufficient secretion and so the person having this disease would use less oxygen, resulting in lower basal metabolism than normal. This disease, in adults, is called myxdema, in children, cretinism. Fever, heart diseases, and some other disorders of the body may also change the basal metabolism.

It is therefore important for a physician to make a basal metabolism determination on a pateint when there is some indication that he may be suffreing from one of the diseases which might affect it. However, because it is so difficult to get the actual minimum metabolic rate, there is no use to make the test unless the physician has the complete cooperation of the patient. For instance, aside from disease, other things may increase heat production, namely, the food. Shortly after eating any kind of food, especially meat and eggs, the person produces more heat than he normally would. Activity also increases the heat production. If the patient does not lie quietly, his metabolic rate will be high, so that it would mislead the physician in diagnosing the case. In order to get strictly basal metabolism, it is absolutely necessary for the patient not to have any food or drink for at least 14 hours, and to lie quietly and relaxed thirty minutes previous to and during the test.

VI.	CONCLUSION

In conclusion, I wish to mention that there is nothing to fear in having a basal metabolism test made, because the apparatus is constructed in such a way that the patient is receiving more air than he needs. The only reason a mask or other device has to be placed over the mouth and nose is that it is necessary to measure every trace of air the patient breathes.

SECOND INTERNATIONAL RECREATION CONGRESS

The Olympic News for August, 1934 contains the announcement that the date for the beginning of the Second International Recreation Congress has been fixed for Thursday, July 23, 1936, at Berlin, Germany.

The International Recreation Committee, at a meeting held immediately after the First International Recreation Congress at
21

Los Angeles, California in 1932, recommended that the Congress be called for one week before the Olympic Games in Berlin, and last for four or five days, and adjourn two or three days before the formal opening of the Olympic Games.

The opening ceremony of the Eleventh Olympic Games will occur on Saturday, August 1st.

Marjorie Bateman, Director of Physical Education for Women, Teachers College, Keene, New Hampshire

Every night during the basketball season for girls, onto hundreds of courts throughout the country, they come running, these slender, attractive young girls—sure footed and graceful. Their faces glow; their eyes are radiant. They smile good-naturedly at their opponents. The audience greets them enthusiastically. The game starts. The players leap, pivot, turn in the air with the ease, swiftness and grace of Russian dancers. The ball snaps back and forth; bounces across the floor; twirls through the air and drops into the basket. The crowd cheers wildly. The game goes on, through a quarter, and then a half. Almost imperceptibly, the game changes. It is no more a ballet but a battle. The players are now crouching, legs apart, bodies tense ready to leap in any direction. Their eyes shift quickly from ball to opponent. A rush after the ball—two bodies crash in mid-air and tumble to the floor. The radiance in their eyes has changed to an almost insane glitter. The good-natured smiles are gone; faces are strained; sweat runs down into the players’ eyes; mouths are half open, gasping for breath. It is a fight, and from the faces of the combatants, one would judge it to be a desperate fight with the stakes high.

But a more important fight in girls’ basketball is being waged, not on the courts, but in doctors’ and principals’ offices, at educational conferences, and in the homes. Should girls play basketball—is it harmful or beneficial? The “pros” say: “splendid game for the development of health and character”—“basketball calls forth the best, physically, emotionally and mentally, in a girl”—“in keeping training rules the girls acquire habits of hygienic living which will be of great value throughout life”— “basketball trains girls for the give and take of life.”

The “antis” maintain “basketball, the sacrifice of the maidens”—“the slaughter of the innocents,”—“one of the most atrocious crimes committed in the name of education.” And there are well informed, intelligent people on both sides!

The spectator is inclined to agree with the “pros”. He has watched the home team through quite a few seasons. They’re a healthy enough lot. Most of them rarely miss a game out of the twenty or thirty played during a season. Of course, they're dead tired at the end of a strenuous game and a few are pretty

Health Aspects of Girls’ Basketball
22

well worn out by the end of the season. But it doesn’t seem to hurt them. They keep training rules religiously; no tea, coffee, cigarettes, pastry or late hours. Plenty of vigorous activity and clean, wholesome living—of course basketball is good for a girl.

If some of these high school and college girls who run around to late parties and dances, smoking and drinking, would go out for basketball, they’d be a lot better off. And so the argument goes.

But what are the facts? What do authorities say on the . subject? During the last ten years the Women’s Division of the National Amateur Athletic Federation has been making extensive studies and surveys of girls’ basketball—the rules used, the type of physical examinations required, the number and length of practice periods, the number of games played during a season— to discover how basketball affects the health, emotional stability and character of the girl. The studies were made by directors of physical education, health supervisors and doctors, those who have been in close touch with girls’ teams. Their answer is— basketball, wisely directed and controlled, is in itself highly beneficial to the girl of average strength and vitality, provided she is physically sound. It is not the game itself but the manner in which it is conducted that determines whether it will be of great value in the development of a girl or definitely harmful. They tell us how basketball can be conducted in order to promote health and avoid dangers. These are the requirements:—

1.	An adequate physical examination for every player, an examination that is thorough enough to reveal organic weaknesses infections and susceptibility to fatigue. It should include a history of previous illness, menstrual function and reaction time. Basketball places too much of a strain on the heart and lungs to allow anyone, not in perfect health, to participate.

2.	Girls should always play under girls’ rules, never boys’ rules. Girls and boys are dissimilar, both in structure and function. A girl’s heart and lungs are smaller, her pulse rate faster than a boy’s. She has not the muscular strength, the physical efficiency, the “wind”, the endurance of a boy. Boys’ basketball is far too strenuous for the average girl, while girls’ basketball was designed to meet the needs of a girl’s nature. Dr. Dudley Allen Sargent, founder of the Sargent School of Physical Education for Women, said:—“To insist upon girls playing violent athletic games under the same rules and regulations that govern the contests of boys and to put them through the same vigorous methods of training, is not only cruel to the girl but it is suicidal to the race.”[l]

3.	Interschool games, except under the best conditions, and playing for championships, should be eliminated. Playing championship games is probably the greatest offense of all. Many evils climb on the band wagon with championship games, and even with non-championship games played away from the home town. There is the custom of using the girls’ basketball team to advertise the town. The newspapers eagerly assist:—

1. Dr. D. A. Sargent—Newsletter—Women’s Div. Amateur Ath. Fed.

Digitized by CjOOQle
23

“The girls in the snappy black and yellow uniforms, fought like a bunch of wild cats”. Then there is the audience. Anyone and everyone is admitted to the game who has the price of admission. In the audience are those who watch the game as they would a bathing beauty contest; their remarks and shouts to the players are in keeping with their attitude.

Days before the game, the team has been publicly cheered and extolled in the school auditorium. They have been charged with the responsibility of bringing back victory to the school. “We’re back of you—every person in the school, the entire town. It’s up to you to go out and fight for victory, we know you will not let the school down. Remember we’ll be on the sidelines, cheering you on to victory!” Then comes the trip by car or bus, sometimes a long, cold ride in cars inadequately heated. The girls arrive in a state of high excitement and nervousness. The moment they run out on the floor, the shouts and cheers raise them to an even higher pitch of excitement. Dr. J. Anna Norris, Director of Physical Education for Women at Minnesota University says:—“The very evident emphasis placed by the audience on the importance of winning stimulates a girl to unusual effort, perhaps beyond the bounds that the condition of her heart can stand; perhaps beyond the limit where she can maintain emotional stability.” [2]

The game ends, and the coach, whether the team has lost or won, has on her hands cases of hysteria, exhaustion, illness. Frequently the entire team stays away from school the day following the game. And we allow this during the age-period—from thirteen to sixteen years—which is marked by the greatest tendency to nervous disorders and emotional instability!

4.	Only a trained woman teacher should supervise girls’ basketball. Men coaches for girls’ teams are fast becoming a thing of the past, but there are still schools which employ men coaches for girls’ teams. They claim men can produce better teams than women; what this really means is winning teams. Women teachers usually judge by other standards—health, emotional stability and character development. Women know girls’ rules better than men; they recognize a different game; while men regard girls’ basketball as a weak-kneed substitute for boys’ basketball. A man can never supervise the health of girls as a woman can. It is extremely important that girls should not play during the first three days of their menstrual periods; this is difficult for a woman to control and impossible for a man. The health of the players is so largely dependent upon the person in charge, that it is imperative to have a trained woman who understands the physiology of girls, their problems and troubles; a woman in whom the girls can confide.

5.	Emphasis should be placed on the fun of playing, rather than on winning the game. Joseph Lee has said:—“girls ought to laugh and squeal over their games, not play them in the dogged spirit characteristic of young men’s competition.” Let games be times of fun and happiness for the girls rather than

2. Dr. J. A. Norris—Child Health Magazine—December 1924.

Digitized by

Google
24

work and battle. Let the spirit of the game be “play with me” rather than “against me”.

So, let’s keep basketball and realize its values by having it carefully controlled and directed. Let’s do away with championship games. Let us get back the fun of the game, the real spirit of Play. Surely, true health, mental and physical, must come hand in hand with it!

Recreation for Women and Girls

Emily I. Case, Chairman, Department of Hygiene and Physical Education, Ginling College, China.

The China of the past has suddenly emerged into a new world. The changes are bewildering, and nowhere more so than in the field of recreation for women. When I first arrived in China in 1923 the bloomer, though long and full, was still a new and embarrassing feature of the programme to our college girls, and a large number of students persisted for some time in wear-" ing them down around their ankles. When I attended the National Athletic Meet in Hangchow in 193)0, the costume of the day was a short sleeved or no sleeved jersey, abbreviated trunks, and bare legs. Educational institutions may strive to stem the rising tide of emanicipation, but the Chinese girl has tasted a new freedom and though she may still in most places wear her stockings long, her mind is shedding its conventional restrictions, and si e is beginning to demand liberty of expression and an opportunity for development equal with men.

To appreciate the significance of this transition, it will help to look for a moment at the recreational life of women in the past. There are two ideas very fundamental to Chineese thinking which appear to me to have determined the form that it should take. The first of these is what I shall call Chinese scholasticism, or the cult of the intellectual; and the second is the conception that woman’s sphere is the home.

During the longest years of China’s civilization, the vastness of her territory, her comparative geographical isolation, and the difficulty of communications within the country, have kept her free of invasion and for the most part impervious to change. There has been no incentive to the development of a warrior caste on a large scale, and no general tendency to popularize physical virtues and achievements. At certain periods in history we find Chinese writers extolling the prowess of the military man, and famous generals have played their part in legend and history; but a much more common tendency has been to relegate the soldier to the lowest ranks of society, and to set upon a pedestal for popular emulation instead the poet and the scholar. Intellectual attainments have been prized far above practical achievement in any line. The body has been despised and its development neglected. Long finger nails and long gowns have

Digitized by Google
25

testified to the almost universal conviction that no gentleman engages in vulgar physical activity. I presume most of you have heard of the oft-quoted story of the elderly Chinese who witnessed for the first time two foreign acquaintances engaged in a game of tennis. Genuinely shocked at the sight, he expostulated with his two friends saying: “But m.y dear sirs, I should be delighted to send two of my coolies out to bat those balls around for you.”

Not only has there been a social stigma very commonly attached to physical pastimes, but anything in the nature of active play has been discountenanced by the religious ideals of the people. Confticious taught that dignity, self-restraint and moderation were the attributes of a virtuous man. Buddhism laid stress on meditation, and passivity and quietude of the whole person were considered necessary to achieve any real spirituality. Although innumerable quiet forms of recreation have been the heritage of the Chinese I think it is not far wrong to say that play in the more positive sense has been regarded with an attitude very much akin to the Puritanism of our New England forebears. Active or noisy play was considered undignified and unbecoming in an adult, and was out of harmony with their religious ideals.

This cult of the intellectual was perpetuated not only by the social and moral code of the people but also by the system of education which, limited though it was to the very small class of intelligentsia, nevertheless played a most important role in maintaining the civilization of a thousand years ago in a relatively static form over a period of many centuries. This education, which centered in and was regulated by a highly developed system of examinations, conceived not only that the mind was to be trained and the body despised, but also that such training was to aim at developing the power to memorize and to imitate exactly rather than the power of the original thought. Vast portions of the classical writers were committed to memory by rote, and successful composition consisted in the closest possible imitation of earlier literary masterpieces. Such a system fostered a great reverence for the past, served to perpetuate the status quo, and discouraged the expression of individuality in the strongest possible way. We may see here, then, one of the most potent factors to be contended with in introducing the ideas of allround development of personality and freedom of expression so basic to the recreation of to-day.

The second idea fundamental to Chinese thinking which makes the recreational problem for women so difficult now, is that long prevalent conception common in so many countries that woman is an intellectually inferior being and that her sphere is in the home, her role chiefly decorative. Among the lower classes, of course, women were a very practical economic asset and their labour alongside of the man in the fields was taken for granted. And among the upper classes the practical abilities of the women, especially the older members of the house-
26

hold made them administrators in no mean sense of the word. The Chinese family, it must be remembered, was not a single unity of husband, wife and children, but rather a household composed of perhaps a dozen such units, often presided over in a formidable fashion by the grandmother of them all. It was communal life, an adequate social unit in itself, and not only were the women and children expected to live out their existence entirely within its confines, but also they were unable to experience much privacy or to pursue individual enterprise in any satisfying way. The training of the girl was for practical housemaking in some degree, but in the upper stratas at least her chief role was ornamental, and the binding of her feet was not only a social declaration that she was under no economic compulsion to earn her living, but it prevented her from undue liberty in her movements and made her a creature purely feminine and entirely dependent upon her lord and master. When she married it was without having ever laid eyes upon her husband, and her trip to the new home was made in a curtained chair or conveyance completely shutting her off from the sordid gaze of the world.

It will be seen, then, that the tremendous regard of the Chinese for scholastic achievement of a very particular type, and their deep-rooted conviction that women have no place in the world of contacts and affairs, are characteristic of Chinese civilization, and are a far cry from the principles and beliefs underlying the philosophy of modern recreation.

At this point I ought to touch briefly on what forms the recreation of women in the past has taken in China. I think they might be classified under three main heads —recreation in the home; public recreation; and, for some classes, commercial recreation. It may seem contradictory to state at one moment that Chinese women have always stayed in the home, and at another to speak of excursions and theatre going. But it must be remembered that customs vary among different classes, and that even where children or married women were allowed to venture forth it was always with the family group and very much protected from ordinary contacts. At the theatre the family sat together in a box; and at excursions or public celebrations it was the family unit which moved about together. Recreational activities in the home included the active games of the children; quiet games; entertaining, which is a fine art in Chinese society, and the arts.

I doubt if any people have a richer heritage of children's games than the Chinese. Many of those played in the west, as you doubtless know, are Chinese in origin, and besides group games of the familiar type such as Blind Man’s Buff, Puss in Corner, Eagle Fetch the Chicken, and others, there are innumerable individual activities with kites, hoops, marbles, tops, jumping ropes, shuttle-cocks, sticks and stones, which have been played for many centuries by Chinese children. There is a wealth of material for research in this one field alone. Little girls engaged with boys in these plays until the process of foot binding,

Digitized by CjOOQle
\

J

27

which in some cases began very young, was undertaken. Quiet games included all kinds of guessing contests, riddles, story telling, chess, dice games, and Mah Jong. With adult women the latter was by far the most popular, and gambling played a very important part in it, as is still the case to-day. Entertaining included much tea drinking, eating of watermelon seeds, and chatting with callers; the interchange of social amenities, especially at New Year’s time; and the preparation of dainties for feasts, or as gifts to one’s friends. In the more cultured homes there was a good deal of artistic expression, sometimes in poetry, sometimes in painting, often on a musical instrument or in fine embroidery.

I must not leave this subject of the former pastimes of women without devoting a few moments to Chinese festivals, which have played such a large part in the life of the whole people. It is with profound regret that one sees these colourful and characteristic celebrations disappearing so rapidly to-day. There have been at least as many festivals as there are months in the year, and I could not begin to describe them in detail, even had I the information at my disposal. I will mention four of them, however, which were of significance to women, especially.

The celebration of the New Year, which is a continuous affair for fifteen days, involved all kinds of delightful merry making on the streets such as parades, firecrackers, walking on stilts, dragon processions. Punch and Judy shows, theatricals of all kinds, clowns and jugglers; and a whole succession of events in the home connected with ancestor worship, entertainment and calling, made the more significant because of the whole family being reunited with all the absent members returned to the fold for that season in the year at least.

The Spring Festival in the Chinese second month celebrated the coming of the flowers, in ancient times, and was devoted to young girls especially. At the Dragon Boat Festival, in the 5th Moon, women were supposed to come out of retirement and to take part in the celebration, which was a varied one, centering about the races of the dragon boats. Decorations were made by the women, sweet smelling spices prepared, and numerous dainties which were peculiar to the season.

The famous legend, of the Milky Way was celebrated on the 7th of the 7th month—in our August/—and was particularly a festival for women and girls. For months beforehand they were at work preparing toys made of sesame seed, and flowers of transparent paper —the more infinitesimal in size the more tribute to the skill of the artist. Each household had its exhibition at the time of the festival, and everyone came to see the handwork which had been absorbing the energy and ingenuity of the feminine members for such a long time. It will be seen that only in homes where leisure abounded could such customs be observed.

Chinese festivals reveal a wealth of customs, traditions, and folklore, and there is no more significant or characteristic aspect

Digitized by v^ooQle
28

of the life of the people for the student of things Chinese. Nor, I think, could there be a more striking testimony to the revolutionary changes which that life is undergoing today than the fact that the observance of these festivals is decreasing rapidly in so many parts of China.

And now it is time to try to give you a glimpse of conditions as they are to-day—difficult though this is to do where the scene is undergoing such kaleidoscope changes and where facts that are true in one section of the country cannot be maintained of other parts. Under the rapidly shifting surface lie, it seems to me, three trends which are affecting recreational life of women. The first of these is the disintegration of the family organization which is beginning to occur in those parts of the country where western influence has penetrated, and which is far more radical in its implications than in the West because of the hitherto complete solidarity of the Chinese family unit. Among the important results of this development are the reduction in the size of families, changes in their standard of living, greater freedom for the women, and intermingling of the sexes—all of which profoundly affect the type of recreation.

Another direction in which important changes are taking place is in the community life. The growth of cities, appearance of modern inventions, rapid development of communications, invasion of western forms of commercialized amusement, and new conceptions of education are revolutionizing the social structure. Democracy, with its emphasis on individual self expression, social reform and equal rights for women, has caught the popular imagination. Education of the whole personality is coming to supplant the old scholasticism.

And, thirdly, there has been a tremendous growth of nationalism, bringing with it new motives for national self defence, political responsibility and industrial and agricultural economy. Thus we see that the family, the community, and the nation are all undergoing a metamorphosis, arid although many parts of China are only beginning to hear rumors of the new life, it will not be long before most of the whole vast structure will be affected.

Such revolutionary changes have, of course, brought with them new ideas and new emphasis, new problems and new dangers in the field of recreation, especially for the women. There are, as I see it, three new emphases of significance to us. The first of these is the patriotic movement. The necessity of keeping up with more modern nations has driven the government to adopting the western calendar and for this reason, as well as for motives of economy and the desire to stamp out the ancient superstitions, the old festivals are being suppressed by government order, and new holidays connected with the events of the revolution such as the founding of the republic and the anniversaries of Dr. Sun Yat-sen’s birth, inauguration, and death, have been set up in their place. Needless to say these holidays lack interest and appeal in comparison with the old fetes, because they have no deep roots as yet, and the great wealth of customs ana

Digitized by


/

f

29

observances which have been of inestimable recreational value to the people in the past is by way of passing from the picture.

Another manifestation of the patriotic movement which has gripped the younger generation in the past two or three years is the new interest in military training, first aid, and home nursing. This has of course a utilitarian rather than a recreation motive behind it, but it has served also to augment the growth of the Girl Scout and Girl Guide organizations, and to encourage participation in all kinds of outing and physical activities.

At this point I ought to speak of Chinese boxing, which is the indigenous system of physical training dating hack thousands of years and covering a variety of activities in much the same way as gymnastics in Europe have included a broad range of natural as well as formalized activities. Chinese boxing includes tumbling, dramatic and imitative movements, and a great number of forms of wrestling and fencing, with implements such as rapiers, broad swords, battle axes, spears, wands and so forth. The system was extremely difficult and complicated, and lacked scientific foundation; but under the influence of modern ideas it is undergoing modification in the direction of greater simplicity, less ostentation, more ease of performance, and greater practical value. One type, which is for girls especially, strongly suggests dancing, making use of slow, sustained and rhythmic movements. I wish there were more time to tell you of this very fascinating form of exercise which is most characteristic of the peculiar genius of the Chinese and is regarded by many of them as the only true Chinese physical education. There is an element in Government and Education circles to-day which is urging, partly for economic and partly for nationalistic reasons, that boxing be universally adopted in place of the recently introduced western athletics, dancing and gymnastics. And if the leaders of the boxing movement should succeed in adapting their method to newer education ideas and in putting it on a scientific basis, there is much that could be said in its favour.

I	have just referred to western athletics, gymnastics and dancing, which brings me to the second conspicuous emphasis in the reaction of to-day. Western education has come to China, apparently to stay, and in its wake has come modem athletics. It wduld be difficult to lay too much stress upon the way that athletics have taken the country by storm within the past ten years—not indeed to the extent that there is anything like general participation as yet, but at least there is a very widespread interest in the more highly organized forms.

Unfortunately, the cart has come before the horse. The youth of China is not prepared physically at all, and yet it is the highly competitive form of athletics to which it has first been introduced. Modem physical education, I believe, to the average man in the street means track meets and basketball leagues. At our annual field day last spring the programme consisted of archery, baseball, tennis, volley ball, and a relay race, field and track events having been omitted for the first time. The Chinese

Digitized by v^ooQle
30

name for the occasion which was printed on the tickets, however, does not distinguish between a field day and a track meet, and after it was over I was told that a number of the guests went away much disappointed because they did not consider it the genuine article. The men’s colleges took the lead in organizing interscholastic sport, and all the secondary schools, for both boys and girls, followed suit. Adequate intramural programs are rare, and there is a serious lack of qualified leadership. Tremendous public interest attaches to any kind of a competitive program, and I think it is true to say that almost the only vital stimulus to the promotion of athletics is the organization of municipal, provincial, and national athletic meets, towards which all promising young athletes, girls or boys, turn their hopes and direct their practice. If no money is available so that such meets may be held, the interest drops.

I cannot here go into the problems associated with athletics in China—the mis-conceptions, the wrong emphases, and the lack of standards for girls. They are due partly to the suddenness with which the whole development has occurred, finding the youth unprepared both nervously and physically, and partly to the lack of competent leadership in the field. Time ought to remedy both of these lacks, and I do not mean to paint too dark a picture. Surely it is a fact of the greatest significance and promise that the Chinese people are awaking to such a keen interest in sport, with all its potentialities for education of the individual and upbuilding of the race.

The third outstanding emphasis in recreation is the introduction of commercialized amusements, notably the moving picture. In certain of the port cities automobiles, radios and night clubs have also come to play an important part in the life of fashionable circles; but this is not true to any general extent; nor, I think, is social dancing [a very dubious addition to Chinese social life at this particular stage] likely to become popular in more than a very few localities for some time to come. But there is no question of the universal popularity of the movie in all parts of China that have been reached by western innovations, and it is very rapidly displacing the simpler and less stimulating forms of amusement common before. It is chiefly American films that are shown, of course, and as Chinese ideas of western civilization are formed for the most part by what they see on the screen, you may imagine that their opinion of the west is not entirely flattering. Unquestionably however, it is influencing their standards, and the average school girl to-day, at least in the big cities, knows more about the ups and downs of life in Hollywood than I do myself. The movie as a blessing to China is decidedly mixed, and many Americans living there would be glad for the sake of their country’s reputation as well as for China’s own good, if its advent had been postponed.

I have tried to indicate three significant trends or emphases which are discernible in recent recreational developments for women—nationalism, which is causing the suppression of the old
31

festivals, the expansion of such organizations as the girl guides, and new growth to Chinese boxing; the rapid rise and spread of western athletics with its attendant problems, causes, and benefits and the advent of the movie. Of organized recreation, I have not spoken because there is practically no such thing at the moment in China. A few communities have playgrounds, but they are devoted chiefly to competitive games among the schools, which do not need this organization. Private and philanthropic agencies in certain localities conduct recreation programs; and the Y. W. C. A. and the Y. M. C. A. have made real contributions in this direction. There is a National Amateur Athletic Federation, but it is lacking in funds and influence, and women have no voice in its affairs.

In these troublous times when military aggression, political upheaval, flood, famine, and disease are casting such dark shadows over the land there seems little promise of any immediate answer to the most pressing problems, one cannot hope for much that is constructive and far reaching in the way of recreational organization in the near future. The story, however, has barely begun. New opportunities always bring new problems, and China has set her feet upon a long and difficult path. But with better ideals of world relations, of social obligation, of the value of individual personality, and the place that women are to play in the life of the future, who shall say what lies in store for this great people? I am happy that the opportunity has been mine to work and think with them a little on these problems, and am confident that in the year ahead the spirit of play will find greater expression and be the inspiration to happier living for these many millions.—Vyayam, India.

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF SUPERINTENDENCE ATLANTIC CITY, N. J.—FEBRUARY 23-28, 1935

The Public Schools and American Ideals

In order that the United States of America may rapidly and fully achieve its goal of economic, social, and spiritual wellbeing for all, and in order that the schools may be an effective agency for the realization of this democratic goal, we pledge ourselves to an educational program for all which will stress:

1.	Knowledge and appreciation of the great ideals of human betterment toward which America strives.

2.	Loyalty to the American form of democratic government which acts for and with the people to realize those ideals.

3.	The ability and desire to use intelligence rather than pressure and force in making such social and economic changes as are needed for the improvement of American life.

4.	Understandings that will help to build a sound economic order planned for human welfare.

5.	The development of the capacity to live on as high a level as our potential economic resources will permit.

Digitized by v^ooQle
32

6.	Vocational competence of each individual together with an understanding and appreciation of the contributions of other workers.

7.	Conditions which promote sound and stable physical and mental health.

8.	Advance in emotional stability and spiritual strength which results in poise and control of conduct essential to the welfare of the individual and society as a whole.

9.	An understanding of other peoples of the world and a desire to bring about a feeling of good will among the nations.

A Greater Emphasis on Mental Hygiene

With the steady increase in the number of psychopathic adults in the United States, more attention should be given to mental hygiene in the public schools.

Provision for Physically Handicapped Children

Increased medical and physical care of crippled children as provided for in H. R. 4120 and S. 1130. We recognize also the need for increased educational facilities not only for crippled children but for all types of physically handicapped children. We therefore urge that there be included in the bill definite provisions under which states will be assisted in improving educational facilities for physically handicapped children, and that any educational responsibilities involved in the bill be placed with the Commissioner of Education in the United States Office of Education.

Greater Emphasis on a Phase of Traffic Safety

Realizing that each year thousands of children and adults are killed or injured by those whose driving skill has been affected by intemperance, we urge a greater emphasis upon the knowledges and attitudes that will lead to an intelligent solution of this problem.

British Medical Association and the National Physique.

Sir E. Hilton Young, Minister of Health, in an address recently at the dinner of the council of the British Medical Association, gave voice to misgivings concerning the national physique, having in mind the improved physique of certain other countries as Germany, Italy, Czecho-Slovakia, the Scandinavian countries and the United States.

An outcome has been the setting up by the B.M.A. of a committee of experts to examine the matter. This investigation is only one, but an important one, of a number of efforts projected in the interest of the health of the people.

International Gymnastic Festival, Ollerup, Denmark. •

An international Gymnastic Festival will be held at the Gymnastic High School, Ollerup, Denmark, from July 18th to 21st. The meeting is being organised by De Sansk Skytte-Gymnastik og Idraetsforeninger. Over 10,000 active gymnasts are expected to take part.

Digitized by L^ooQle
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 42	April 1935	No.	427

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN. EDITORIAL COMMITTEE

Emil Rath, Director of Physical and Health Education, Indianapolis Public Schools Carl L. Schrader, State Director of Physical Education, Massachusetts

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Association,

New York

Grover W. Mueller, Director of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

ASSOCIATE EDITORS Chas. J. Prohaska, M. D., State Director of Health and Physical Education, Connecticut Robert Nohr, Associate Processor of Physical Education, University of Wisconsin Clara L. Hester, Assistant to the Dean and Instructor in Physical Education, Indianapolis Normal

College

Emmett A. Rice, Assistant Principal of Shortridge High School in Indianapolis; Lecturer on History of Physical Education at Indianapolis Normal College Martha A. Gable, Teacher, Olney Higjh School, Philadelphia, Sports Official and Coach Martin H. Trieb, Assistant Supervisor of Physical Education, Los Angeles Public Schools Lelia V. Gunther, Teacher of Physical Education, Cleveland High School, St. Louis, Mo.

Rudolph Hofmeister, M. D., practicing physician and surgeon in St. Louis; formerly a teacher of

physical education

Howard L. Conrad, Supervisor of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

Hazel C. Orr, Teacher, Woodward High School, Cincinnati

Fred E. Foertsch, Assistant Director, Philadelphia Public Schools

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editor!

504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Editorial

The Women's Division of the National Amateur Athletic Federation is to be commended for its efforts in recent years to discourage the use of boys’ basketball rules by girls. This important project should be aided by every member of our profession. It is hoped that the movement will result also in the elimination of the disgraceful commericialism with which girls* games, especially games of the non-school variety, are surrounded in many places.

Those who have followed the competition in apparatus work and tumbling in the Mid-West “Big Ten” Universities during the past 10 years have noticed a marked improvement. The form is approaching that of European gymnasts, the “Kunstform” as the Germans call it. On the horizontal bar there is less slovenly leg work. One often sees excellent control of the extremities in diffi-^ cult stunts, legs perfectly extended and kept together, instead of dangling about freely as though the gymnast had to concentrate intensively on the intricacies of his stunt and let the legs take care of themselves. This is also seen on the parallel bars. Here a much better position of the upper trunk also noticeable. The stooped position is passing. On the horse a much freer form is appearing. Competitors no longer crouch over the apparatus

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
34

and force their legs about by sheer strength. They are mastering the principles of balance, weight shifting and rhythmic swing.

One finds a much more widely spread application of principles of physics in apparatus work. Gymnasts make ulse of the force of gravity of balance, of centrifugal and centripetal force resulting in a finer skillful performance showing less use of strength. It makes the work appear rhythmic for these are also the principles involved in rhythm. The free form has its place in apparatus work but scarcely in that of college gymnasts.

There is also a marked progress in difficulty. One rarely sees exercises made up of kipps, hip and knee circles only on the bar as were frequently seen as late as 1928-29. There is not yet the variety present, particularly on the horizontal bar, as one might expect from college gymnasts. There is a strong tendency to compose exercises mainly of giant circles and fly-aways. In this respect improvement is necessary. A much greater variety is found in the work on the parallel bar and the side horse.

The method of evaluating the work could also be improved- It is not easy to grade an exercise on the basis of 15 points. It seems to me that competition could be improved also by having one obligatory exercise on each piece of apparatus instead of two optional.

Gymnastic Championships of America

and Official Championships of The Amateur Athletic Union of the United States Auspices of 23 Street Y. M. C. A. SATURDAY, MAY 4, 1935, at 3:30 p. m.and 8:00 p. m.

EXERCISES EVENTS—[Men]

1.	All-Around [Horizontal Bar, Parallel Bars, Side Horse, Long Horse, Flying Rings and Calisthenics].

2.	Horizontal Bar. One compulsory and one optional exercise required.

3.	Parallel Bars. One compulsory and one optional exercise required.

4.	Side Horse. One compulsory and one optional exercise required.

5.	Long Horse. Two compulsory and two optional exercises required.

6.	Flying Rings. One compulsory swinging and one optional still exercise required.

7.	Free Calisthenics. Optional exercise of not more than 2 minutes.

8.	Rope Climbing. Hands only, against time, height 25 feet required.

9.	Tumbling. Two distinct optional exercises required.

10.	Indian Clubs. Optional exercise, 4 minutes time allowed.

EVENTS — [Women]

11.	All-Around—Parallel Bars. Side Horse. Flying Rings.— Calisthenics.

Digitized by Google
35

12.	Parallel Bars. Two optional exercises required.

13.	Side Horse. Two optional exercises required.

14.	Flying Rings. One optional swinging exercise and one optional still exercise required.

Prescribed Compulsory Gymnastic Exercises 1935

Men LONG HORSE Submitted by the National Committee

1.	Run, jump, place both hands first on croup and then on extreme end of neck and circle forward through handstand, with push-off to knee-bent position rearways; arms, foreupward; assume standing position. [Double touch handspring.] [Body and arms straight throughout vault.]

2.	Run, jump, place both hands at extreme end of neck, bending hips and passing both legs [straight] between hands to stand rearways beyond neck. [Buecke.]

SIDE HORSE Submitted by Southern Pacific Association.

Stand at neck, facing horse [left hand on neck, right hand on left pommel], jump, and, in bending hips, fling closed legs to left under left hand, with 1-2 turn right to rear support in saddle [double rear vault mount], and, without stopping, swing closed legs back under right hand and forward under left hand, with 1-2 turn right to rear support on neck; and, without stopping, swing closed legs back under right hand; swing left leg forward under left hand: swing right leg forward over saddle, to straddle support around right hand [over left pommel]; swing left leg back under left hand and, in shifting [travel] to right, swing left leg forward over right pommel to rear support in saddle [left hand shifts to left pommel, right hand shifts to right pommel] and, without stopping, swing left leg back under left hand and swing body to right, with changing leg position over right pommel [back scissors to right]; swing left leg back under leftliand; swing closed legs forward under right hand and backward under left hand [one free circle, counter-clockwise]; swing right leg forward under right hand; swing left leg forward under left hand; swing closed legs backward under right hand and forward under left hand [one free circle, clockwise]; swing closed legs backward under right hand and forward under left hand, with 1-2 turn right to rear support on croup, and, without stopping, swing closed legs back under right hand and forward under left hand, with 1-2 turn right into saddle with immediate push-off to dismount [Stoeckle], to stand rearways.

Note—The entire exercise is to be executed in even and continuous motion.

PARALLEL BARS.

Submitted by New England Association.

1.	Stand at end of bars at uprights, facing inward, inside grasp.

2.	Back somersault [basket] below the bars and land in

Digitized by booQle
36

upper-arm hang with immediate front uprise and swing backward through cross rest to handstand.

3.	Lower body through upper arm, hang and roll backward and throw upward to handstand. [Felgaufschwung.]

4.	Make 1-2 turn backward [reverse piroutte] in handstand.

5.	Lower body to full horizontal lever above bars and hold.

6. Swing legs forward and flank swing right backwards over left bar and continue flank swing into bars [body makes 1-2 turn during the abbve and thighs may touch bar].

7.	Swing backward toward handstand, then, making 1-4 turn right on right bar, bring left hand over to grasp right bar in reverse grasp and continue, to make 3-4 additional turn right, to dismount at stand crossways at side of bars.

Note—At start of exercise, the bar on the left is the “left bar,” the bar on the right is the “right bar,” and they remain so, no matter how the gymnast changes position.

HORIZONTAL BAR.

Submitted by Metropoli&m Association

1.	Hang with reverse grasp.

2.	Swing, bring legs between arms and over bar, push body forward and dislocate to hang and swing backward and back uprise [Schwungstemme] to front rest [changing to ordinary grasp], drop back and repeat back uprise to a straddle seat.

3.	Circle backward once, drop back, bringing legs below bar, and push forward in making 1-2 turn left [right hand now ordinary, left hand reverse]; swing forward in hang and bring legs between arms on backward swing and back kip uprise on forward swing to free seat above bar, making immediate 1-2 turn left to free front rest.

4.	Backward circle into handstand and two giant circles backward; on third circle, place right hand over left hand in cross grasp and continue to make 1-2 turn right into forward giant circle; on second circle, bring legs between arms and over bar and heel circle forward; on second heel circle, release hands and dismount backwards with 1-2 turn to stand rearways.

FLYING RINGS.

Submitted by Middle Atlantic Association.

1.	Obtain desired swing: At end of forward swing [backward roll [shoot up] to 1-2 inverted stand [bent-arm stand]; at end of backward swing, drop body backward to 1-2 inverted hang [kip position]; at end of forward swing, kip and forward roll to kip position; at end of backward swing, bring legs downward sharply and snap up to cross rest [Schwungstemme]; at end of forward swing start “press” to handstand, with straight body and bent arms in swinging backward; hold handstand, swing forward-backward-forward, then lower body to inverted hang; swing backward, bending to kip position, and dislocate backward to full hang; swing forward, tapping floor, and lay out flyaway dismount.

Note—All apparatus exercises may be performed to either the left or right side, if continuity of text is followed.

Digitized by ^ooQle
37

Any explanation of terminology may be obtained by addressing A.A.U. National Gymnastic Committee, Woolworth Building, 233 Broadway, New York City, and enclosing self-addressed and stamped envelope.

Practical Material

ACHIEVEMENT STANDARDS ON GYMNASIUM APPARATUS FOR GIRLS AND BOYS

Grover W. Mueller

In this issue we present the eighth set of a series of exercises on gymnasium apparatus for girls and boys. The exercises were arranged for pupils in junior high schools and have been used successfully in a large number of schools.

The material is organized on the basis of difficulty in such a way as to provide three levels of achievement standards for girls and for boys in each of the six school grades of junior high schools in connection with each of four pieces of apparatus. Three exercises of approximately equal difficulty have been set up at each level for each piece of apparatus. Accordingly, the reader will find three exercises representing a “fair” achievement standard, three representing a “good” standard, and three representing an “excellent” standard for each piece of apparatus.

The exercises can be used not only as content material in the usual way, but also as a basis for classifying pupils into “ability groups” and as a basis for rating pupil achievement in connection with tins phase of physical education. It is recommended that the exercises be posted in a prominent place where they may be seen by all pupils in order that they may judge the quality of their own achievement and thereby note their progress. This creates and maintains interest, and furthermore, it serves as a strong stimulus to effort and improvement.

Pupils in high ability groups in any class who have achieved the “excellent” standards of their school grade should be permitted and encouraged to practice the exercises of higher school grades.

It is hardly necessary to state that use of these exercises need not be restricted to junior high schools. They may be used by any group of older pupils whose experience with apparatus has been limited. They most certainly may be used by senior high school pupils who have not achieved them in the junior high school: this applies with greatest force to the “excellent” standards. In communities where gymnasium apparatus is not introduced in grades below the senior high school, these exercises will be suitable with little modification in the senior high school.

Subsequent issues of Mind and Body will carry additional sets of exercises of the series until achievement standards for all six grades of the junior high school in connection with at least four different pieces of apparatus have been presented.

The following suggested achievement standards are exercises on the Side Horse for school grades 7A and 7B [“A” represents the first semester of the grade; “B” represents the second semester.]

Digitized by Google
SIDE HORSE—GIRLS—GRADE 7A

Fair

Good

Excellent

Run, grasp pommels and jump to a double shin-stand in the saddle. Rise to a stand. Jump forward to a stand.

Run, grasp pommels and jump to a shinstand left in saddle. Place right foot in the saddle to squat position [shinstand left is retained]. With a pushoff right, jump forward to a stand. Repeat opposite.

Run in line with croup and jump with support on pommel and croup to a double shinstand on the croup. Courage jump forward [armswing fore-upward]. Repeat on neck.

Run, grasp pommels and jump with legswing left forward and a quartertum right to a cross riding seat in the saddle facing the croup. Grasp pommel in front, swing legs forward, backward, and dismount left sideward. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and jump to a shinstand left in saddle. Legswing right forward [over croup] with a quarter-turn dismount left forward to a stand [left hand retains grip on left pommel, right hand is released as right leg is swung forward]. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and jump to a squat-stand left in saddle. Squat right forward and straighten both legs forward to a side riding seat in the saddle. Swing legs forward and dismount with 1-4 turn left. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and Run, grasp pommels and front jump with a legswing vault to the left with the knees mount to a riding seat raised to the chest. [The body on the neck, facing the faces the horse while passing over saddle. Grasp pommel, the horse]. Repeat right, swing legs forward, backward, and dismount left sideward. Repeat opposite on croup.

Run, grasp pommels and squat vault forward with straightening legs forward.

Digitized by
Digitized by

GRADE 7B

Fair	Run,	grasp pommels and

jump to a double shin-stand in the saddle. Courage jump forward [armswing foreupward].

Run, grasp pommels and jump to a squat-stand left in saddle. Push-off with the left foot and jump forward to a stand. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and jump to a squat-stand left in saddle. Legswing right forward with a quarter-turn dismount left to a stand. Repeat opposite.

Good

Run [in line with croup]' and jump with support on pommel and croup to a squat-stand left on croup. Straighten left leg forward to a side riding seat on croup. Quarter turn dismount left forward [right leg swings forward] to a cross stand. Repeat opposite on neck.

•

Run, grasp pommels and jump to a squat-stand in the saddle. Dismount backward to a half-deep squat-stand and immediately jump [support on pommels] with legswing right over croup to a cross riding seat on croup facing the saddle. Grasp rear pommel, swing legs forward and backward and dismount right sideward. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and jump to a squat-stand in the saddle. Straighten the legs forward in a momentary support rearways and dismount forward.

o

o

0§



Excellent

Run, grasp pommels and squat vault forward [straightening legs forward] with half turns left to a stand facing the saddle. Repeat right.

Run, grasp pommels and jump with squatting forward to a support rearways. Legswing left backward with 1-4 turn left to a riding seat in saddle facing the neck. Grasp front pommel, swing legs forward and backward and dismount right sideward. Repeat opposite.

Rim [in line with the croup], and squat-straddle vault right over croup with support on pommel and croup [left leg in squat position, right leg sideward]. Repeat opposite over the neck.
Digitized by

SIDE HORSE-BOYS--GRADE 7A

Fair

Good

o

o

o

Excellent

FT

Run, grasp pommels and squat vault forward with straightening legs forward.

Run, grasp pommels, jump and squat left forward to a side, riding seat in the saddle. Legswing right forward with 1-4 turn left and dismount.

Run, grasp pommels and jump to a squat-stand left in saddle, Squat right forward with straightening legs forward and dismount forward.

Courage Jump

Run, grasp pommels and jump to a shin-stand in the saddle. Courage jump forward with 1-4 turn left. Repeat right.

Run, grasp pommels and squat left forward to a side riding seat in saddle. Legswing right forward under right hand to a support rear-ways. Swing legs forward [horizontal or above] and dismount forward. Repeat opposite. •

Run, grasp pommels and jump to a squat-stand left in saddle. Squat right forward straightening legs forward and with a half turn left dismount to a stand facing the saddle. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and flank vault to the left with a 1-4 turn right to a cross stand. Repeat opposite.

•

Run, grasp pommels and squat left forward to a side riding seat in saddle. Raise hips and squat right forward with straightening legs forward and dismount with a half-turn left to a stand facing the saddle. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and jump with legswing mount left to a riding seat on neck facing saddle. Grasp pommel, swing legs forward and backward with scissors left or right. Place hands on end of horse, raise hips and straddle dismount forward. Repeat opposite on croup side of horse.
Digitized by

Fair

Good

Excellent

o

o



Run, grasp pommels and jump to a shin-stand in the saddle. Courage jump forward.

Run, grasp pommels and jump with legswing left forward under left hand to a side riding seat in saddle. Squat right forward to a support rear-ways. Swing legs forward, [horizontal or above] and dismount for-ward with a half turn left or right. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and jump with rear vault mount left [legs passing over croup] to a riding seat in saddle facing the croup. Grasp pommel in front, swing legs forward and backward with scissors left or right. With grip on pommel in rear swing legs foreupward and rear vault dismount right sideward. Repeat opposite.

GRADE 7B

Run, grasp pommels and jump with legswing left forward under left hand to a side riding seat in the saddle. Legswing right forward with 1-4 turn left and dismount. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and squat left forward to a side riding seat in saddle. Half turn right changing grip on pommels. Legswing left forward under left hand with a half turn right to a half-deep squat-stand facing the saddle. Squat vault forward to a stand.

Rim [in line with neck] support on neck and pommel and flank vault right over neck [legs passing over saddle] to a stand in line with the neck. Repeat opposite on croup side of the horse.

Run, grasp pommels and jump with legswing left forward under left hand with 1-4 turn right to cross riding seat in saddle. Swing legs forward and backward and dismount left sideward.

Run, grasp pommels and squat vault forward with straightening legs forward followed by one-half turn left to a stand facing saddle. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels, and squat-straddle vault left [squat right, left leg sideward] to a support rear-ways. Three-quarter tummount left to a riding seat on neck facing saddle. Grasp both pommels, dismount in front of saddle on the ’ take-off side, and squat vault forward over saddle. Repeat opposite.
42

MIMETIC GAMES

Grover W. Mueller

In the May 1934 issue of Mind and Body we briefly discussed Story Plays and pointed to a common weakness in their makeup. We also referred to a series of Mimetic Games which had been evolved in one city in an effort to eliminate the common objectionable feature of story plays while at the same time retaining their most valuable characteristics. Two examples of mimetic games were included. In the Sept.-Oct., Nov., and Dec.-Jan. issues six more examples were printed. Following are additional mimetic games. In a later issue the concluding games of the series will appear.

THE CIRCUS

Every girl and boy likes to go to the circus. There they may see many interesting animals and many wonderful stunts. To be able to do these stunts the acrobats must be strorig, supple, and in good health. The children decide to try to do some of the things which acrobats and animals do in the circus.

1.	The horses prance proudly around the ring

Run rather slowly with high knee raising in circle formation

2.	Stunts done by the acrobat

a.	With the right arm raised, forward, swing the right leg fore-upward vigorously to kick the raised hand. Repeat 4 or 5 times. Now do the same with the other arm and leg.

b.	In a side stride stand, grasp behind the knees with the hands and bend the trunk foredownward with a bobbing movement in order to carry the head back between the legs as far as possible. Return immediately and repeat the stunt several times.

c.	Hop several times on the right foot while holding the ankle of the raised left foot with the left hand. Repeat, but hop on the left foot while holding the right ankle.

3.	Elephants walking

Walk with the trunk forward and the arms downward with

hands clasped. The body and arms swing from side to side,

the arms representing the elephant's trunk.

4.	Horses leaping over fences

Run several steps and then jump upward. Repeat several

times.

5.	Giants and dwarfs	*

a.	Walk on tip toes in order to be tall like giants.

b.	Walk with the knees bent deeply to be short like dwarfs.

c.	After all pupils have taken the part of both giants and dwarfs, the class may be divided so that one half of the pupils [boys] walk as dwarfs and the other half [girls] as giants. Then have boys and girls take the opposite roles.

6.	Lady balancing on horseback.

Digitized by ^ooQle
43

Raise the left leg and both arms sideward to a balance position. Hold this balance stand for several seconds and then after a momentary rest try again, this time raising the right leg.

7.	Horses bow

The fine horses bow to the audience. Bend the trunk forward and return continuously several times.

LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD’S TRIP TO HER GRANDMOTHER’S HOME

To most children the woods, open fields, and babbling brooks have a very strong appeal. The fragrant wild flowers, the cool woods, and the sparkling water in the brooks, all lend enrichment to the joy of being out in the healthful fresh air. On the trip to her grandmother’s house in the woods, Little Red Riding Hood is able to enjoy all these delightful gifts of nature.

1.	Little Red Riding Hood, carrying a basket of goodies for her

grandmother, skips merrily from home toward the woods.

Skip happily with raising knees higher than is done ordinarily.

2.	Suddenly she comes upon a patch of daisies and buttercups.

Thinking they would make a pretty bouquet for grandmother she gathers a big bunch, breaking them off close to the ground in order that they will have long stems.

Walk one or two steps, bend forward and imitate plucking a flower close to the ground. Straighten to a stand while placing the flower in the other hand. Walk another step or two and pluck another flower. Repeat several times. Sometimes instead of stoopiflg forward, bend knees deeply to a squat position to pluck the flowers.

3.	As she goes through the fields she is suddenly attracted by a

beautiful butterfly flapping its lustrous wings in the sunlight. Red Riding Hood imitates the movements of the butterfly. Skip about with outstretched arms [sideward] moving up and down.

4.	Soon she comes to a wide shallow stream in which there are

many flat stones sticking up out of the water. To reach the other bank of the stream she must jump from stone to stone. With short jumps go from one stone to another, pausing on each stone to maintain balance and to prepare to jump to the next stone.

5.	Once over the stream, she enters the cool dark woods where

the tall trees are swaying in the strong wind. She wonders how it feels to sway like the trees.

In a side stride stand with knees straight and arms raised sideward, bend the trunk slowly several times to the left and right in alteration.

6.	Over the brow of a ridge she comes upon a woodcutter chop-

ping down a tree. He chops low on one side of the tree for a short time and then on the opposite side. Red Riding Hood gets permission to take the axe and chop for a few
44

• minutes. She discovers that the tree is much harder than she had imagined.

In a diagonal stride stand [right foot back] with arms bent over right shoulder [as if holding an axe] swing arms forward and downward. As the swing progresses gradually straighten the arms and bend the trunk forward and downward.

7.	In her haste to see her grandmother, Red Riding Hood breaks into a run when she gets near the cottage.

Run forward for about 15 to 20 seconds.

USE OF THE LOCKER SYSTEM IN CHECKING ATTENDANCE

Kate R. Steichmann, Shortridge High School, Indianapolis.

Systems for checking attendance in the gymnasium have been worked out in many schools, but not all are suitable to all schools. In our case, we have combined a checking system with a method of keeping the dressing room orderly.

When we start a new class, the roll book is made up in alphabetical order after which the wall lockers are assigned consecutively to correspond to the. roll book. [The basket rentals are taken care of by another department and their numbers are therefore not subject to our control.] The locker room system is next explained to the girls: That

1.	The wall locker is to be used only by the girl assigned to it.

2.	She is to use it to safeguard her clothes, pocketbook, books and other valuables during her physical education lesson.

3.	The baskets are for the purpose of storing her physical education clothes on the rack provided for that.

4.	By placing her empty basket over her wall locker and locking the latter, she is “checking in”.

While the girls are on the gymnasium floor, some one checks the lockers and baskets and an unused locker indicates that the pupil is absent. The names of absentees may be called before the class is dismissed for the double purpose of making sure that the girls understand the system and to assure the class that the system is working.

This method with a lesson devoted to the hygienic aspects of locker room procedure has helped to keep the locker room in order and to reduce loss of articles to a minimum.

Retirement of Hr. Gymnastikinspektor K. A. Knudsen

Hr. Knudsen has been the champion of Swedish Gymnastics in Denmark for over a quarter of a century, and he has filled the office of Chief Inspector of Gymnastics to the Danish Board of Education with distinction. He is affectionately remembered in England, for he laid the foundation of the great advance in the physical training in our schools. He had charge of the very first class in physical training at the Scarborough Summer School.

Hur. Knudsen’s successor is Hr. Seminarielaerer Trap, of Skarupp Seminarium.

Digitized by LjOOQle