library

University of Montana-

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 26	APRIL, 1919 No.	278

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Mina.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah-EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Maas. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 45 W. Johnson St-» Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the post of ice at New Ulmt Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

j ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS

O	I	I	—» —	- ■ ° — ' ■' "O

THE HISTORICAL ASPECT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

EDITH L. HILDERBRANT, Harvey, III.

There was a time in the evolution of man, when might made right. Every individual who maintained an existence worthy of recognition did so by a lavish expenditure of physical power. Strength and endurance won his victories. Those qualities enabled him to protect himself when necessary; they gave him the ability to make an attack when the opportunity presented itself. Without them he would have had small chance to live since he was continually obliged to surmount difficulties in his efforts to wrest from nature a mere subsistence.

As the human race progressed, the occasions for the employment of physical force gradually decreased in number. But the necessity for physical activity which was developed in the working out of the law of the survival of the fittest has become so thoroughly ingrained in the nature of man that we shall probably always find it essential to cultivate a certain amount of physical strength and endurance in order to preserve a high degree of constitutional vigor.

Digitized by Google
50

Yet the development of muscular strength is by no means the sole end and aim of physical education. It was when this strength needed control that other aims presented themselves, and training became necessary. When men began to act in organized bodies, when sedentary occupations displaced more active ones, when thought became a ruling power, then did bodily training come to be recognized as an important factor in the education of youth. Just how early this occurred we do not know. We do know, however, that the earliest nations of which we have a record valued bodily exercise. Herodotus says of the ancient Persians, “For twenty years they teach their children but three things— to mount a horse, to draw the bow, and to tell the truth.”

The Spartans aimed to make of every man a soldier. The Spartan boy began his physical training at the age of seven. He was obliged to fit into the military scheme like a link in a chain, lacking individualism since he was not allowed to cultivate special powers, and yielding strength to the nation only as he moved in a body with others. Discipline was the keynote of the entire system of education.

Unlike the Spartans, the Athenians strove to effect a complete and harmonious development of the individual. They regarded the body and mind as coworkers; they expressed their worship for beauty by developing beautiful and artistic forms; and they endeavored to safeguard the nation by cultivating the strength of the individual. The Athenian youth went to the gym-nasiarch for instruction in physical training, as regularly and as faithfully as he visited the philosopher for knowledge of other subjects.

As a result of their thorough and systematic training for health, strength, beauty and efficiency, which Plato regarded as “half of education,” the Greeks have left us a rare heritage. We admire them for their victory at Marathon; we esteem them for having made the stride from a barbarous state to a high degree of enlightenment in less than five hundred years; but we honor them most for those treasures which, by transfixing athletics through art, they have left us in the form of the Odes of Pindar and the statues of the Age of Pericles.

We must not accept the statue of Apollo, however, as typical of this art. In the fourth century, A. D., emphasis was placed upon realism, so we find in the sculoture of that period many of the cruder forms which characterize art that is true to life.

In the minds of the ancient Greeks, games were of little or no athletic importance. They were regarded as “suitable for children and old men, for barbarians and revellers.” Gymnastics were considered essential to body building, and they remained an important part of the system of national education, even after the other forms of physical training had given way to the influences that lost for Greece her prestige. Considerable stress was placed on military drill, since upon success in war depended the life of the nation.

Digitized by
51

Of all the forms of physical education, athletics undoubtedly won the most favor, and held it for the greatest period of time. Probably no other Greek institution enjoyed so long and absorbing a history as the Olympic Games, the first of which occurred in 776 B. C. Coroebus won a foot race in that memorable year, and from his victory, dates the beginning of Grecian chronology, just as ours does from the birth of Christ. For twelve centuries these games held the interest of the nation, and inspired some of the best works of the dramatist, poet and sculptor.

In ancient Rome, the emphasis was -placed upon military training and camp life. The early Romans, naturally quick, skillful, vigorous, enduring, and energetic, were a religious people, having good morals, and endowed with love of country. The individual was subservient to whatever principle the state upheld. He was trained to submit willingly to its demands. Decius did not hesitate to give up his life for his country. Brutus and Manlius made no murmur when called upon to sacrifice their sons. This submission to the claims of the state was characteristic of the nation, and it was developed by the nature of the Roman system of physical education.

Little attention was given to the educational and medical phases. If a Roman was physically weak, he did not go to his instructor for a knowledge of health principles. He went to Greece, where he was given the kind of training that restored health. After his recovery he returned to his native country, prepared to join the forces that traversed the deserts of northern Africa, or to wade the streams of upper Gaul and Britainy.

When Romp fell, interest in physical training ceased. But long before that time, life had become so luxurious that the Roman gentleman found it most agreeable to let slaves take his exercise for him. He disregarded all principles of health, endeavoring only to satisfy the desires of the flesh. Public baths in Rome depleted rather than restored energy as in Greece. Gladiatorial combats in the Roman amphitheatre presented a marked contrast to the sacred festivals at Olympia.

Instead of the military training that developed the capable soldiers of ancient Rome, there existed the lowest type of professionalism. Physical education was quite as strange to the sensuous Roman as was intellectual growth. It is not to be wondered that certain people imbued with the spirit of religion, protested violently against the physical excesses that prevailed throughout the Empire.

But the early Christians, in their disgust for self-indulgence, made the mistake of going to another extreme. They abhorred the body. They attempted to divorce it from the mind. The body was blamed for all error, and consequently was neglected and mistreated. Any attention given to its care was regarded as “proof of an unregenerate heart.” Even bathing was not permissible. To take exercise for the sake of health was an evidence of unworthiness. The health laws of Moses were disregarded, the holding of
(2

festivals discouraged. A Christian emperor abolished the Olympic games in 393 A. D.

Even to seek or admire beauty was vain. In Buckle’s history we read, “It was, however, wrong to take pleasure in beautiful scenery, for a pious man had no concern with such matters. On' Sunday it was sinful to walk in the fields or in the meadows, or to enjoy fine weather by sitting at the door of your home.”

People who supported the official religion were not satisfied simply to neglect the care of their body. They believed that the spirit must be crushed and the flesh “crucified” before God would accept of either. The body was subjected to nameless tortures.

Physical conditions resulting from such general hatred of the body and such abysmal ignorance of its workings, were responsible for many of the waves of moral depression that swept over the ages and stained the pages of history. The anti-natural religion spread so vehemently that its influence was felt for many centuries, not only in Hindostan, where it originated, but in all countries that constituted the then known world. As a consequence nations degenerated in intellectual power as well as in physical strength. Centuries were required to overcome the pernicious effects of the false teaching.

What a contrast is presented by the modem teachings of Christianity! We have come to realize that redemption of the body is quite as important as the redemption of the mind. Our Young Men’s and Young Women’s Christian Associations regard bodily training as an important part of their work. Missionaries who carry the Gospel to the farthermost comers of the earth find physical education a powerful force in building up not only the physiques, but also the morals of those whose souls they strive to win.

We owe to chivalry the revival of interest in physical training. The knight strove to be a true warrior and a great crusader. In order to achieve his aim he was obliged to equip himself with great physical power. To serve truly his lady, his liege, and his Lord, the cavalier strove to develop prowess. Training formed an important part of his life program. To keep himself in prime physical condition, he practiced wrestling, swimming, running, climbing, vaulting, boxing, fencing, archery, hurling stones, casting the spear, and horsemanship. To add to his distinction as a gentleman, he cultivated diligently the art of dancing.

How well it behooved him to become accomplished in the more strenuous exercises, is shown in Spencer’s “Faerie Queen,” where we are told, with recurring variance, “He stroke, he soust, he foynd, he hewd, he lasht.” Knightly tournaments which gave him opportunity to display his skill and strength, characterized the age of chivalry just as the Olympic games and the shows in the Arena, stand out prominently in the history of Greece and of Rome.

The downfall of the feudal system marked the decline of interest in physical exercises. But with the Revival of Learning in

Digitized by
53

the sixteenth century, educators who were studying Greek and Latin classics, and who were further influenced by the ideals of chivalry began to advocate bodily exercise as an integral factor in education. John Locke and Jean Jacques Rousseau of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, respectively, published books, today regarded as classics,* in which they emphasized the importance of physical training in the school curriculum.

In 1774, Basedow, of Dessau, Germany, opened a school in which physical training was taught as a regular subject. Three years later one of his pupils, Salzmann, opened another school of a similar type, hear Gotha. Here a man named Johann Christoph Friedrich Guths Muths was employed as an assistant. He achieved eminence in the world of physical education partly because of his long service of fifty years, but largely because of the high character of his work, and the value of his publications on games, swimming, gymnastics, and manual training.

Friedrich Ludwig Jahn who espoused the cause of the German common people, strove, by means of team games and of gymnastics informally conducted, to arouse a public spirit that would help to unify Germany. He devised a system of gymnastics which, along with singing and oral reading, was introduced into the schools as a regular part of the curriculum. For a time at about the middle of the nineteenth century gymnastics were repressed on account of revolutionary disturbances; but, in 1868, the “Deutsche Tumer-schaft” which bound together all the gymnastic societies, was organized.

At about the time when Germany began to revive bodily training, physical exercises were introduced into the schools of Sweden, Denmark, Switzerland, France, England and Scotland. The Swedes with Pehr Henrik Ling, the poet, patriot, dramatist, and physical educator as their leader, worked out a system of gymnastics that brought order out of political and social chaos. The primary object was to develop good soldiers, though other phases of physical education were quite as well developed as the military. Ling’s son, Hjalmar, rendered great service in trying to perfect the work of his father. The Swedish system is distinguished by three important features:	(1)	the	Day’s Order; (2) progression

within each lesson, and progression from one lesson to another; and (3) execution of a movement after word of command instead of by imitation. The Swedes worked for physiological results, and deserve great commendation for their achievements in educational and medical gymnastics.

Denmark bears the distinction of having been the first country to make physical training a regular part of the school course, and to establish a training school where teachers were instructed in theory and method. The name of Franz Nachtegall is the leading one associated with the movement.

Gymnastic exercises were introduced into the army and schools of Switzerland by Phokion Heinrich Clias, who also taught physical training in France and England.

* Locke—Some Thoughts on Education, 1693 Rousseau—Emile, 1762
France has tried out both the German and the Swedish systems. Neither one has exactly met her demands, but she seems in late years to have derived considerable benefit from the revival of athletic sports. Francisco Amoros, of Spanish descent, introduced military and educational gymnastics into the French schools. He placed great emphasis upon the moral benefits to be derived from physical training.

It is only quite recently that France has made any special progress in developing a system of her own. Calisthenics, fencing, and dancing have received considerable emphasis there and in Italy. Scotland has called the attention of the world to its Caledonian games. Ireland has brought boxing, wrestling, and hockey to a high grade of perfection. England has achieved distinction in boating, tennis, cricket, football, and other sports.

In naming the countries that have profited greatly from one form or another of physical training, we must not omit Japan. For two thousand five hundred years or more, the Japanese have been developing a system known as jiu jitsu. Until modem times, only the nobility know the secrets of tne science. Now everyone is taught the essentials of it, boys and girls, men and women.

Jiu jitsu is not simply a series of tricks, as is commonly supposed. It is a system of physical education which besides recognizing the value of bodily exercise in developing skill and strength, and in providing methods of attack and defense, also emphasizes the importance of proper food, rest, clothing, bathing, and all other vital principles. By means of their system, the Japanese have developed remarkable health and wonderful endurance.

Physical training in our own country did not begin to assume any definite form until about 1825. Our early ancestors managed to derive sufficient activity to preserve a fair state of health and efficiency, from felling trees, tilling the soil, hunting game, and protecting themselves from Indians. Muscular weakness and nervous exhaustion are not compatible with frontier life. But the rapid strides that civilization made in America finally necessitated training of the body in order to offset the effects of congregating in cities, of close application to mental occupations, and of the minute division of labor.

During the first quarter of the nineteenth century, scholars devoted a part of their time to industrial exercises. A number of schools that considered physical activity “essential to vigorous mental exertion” owned farms and shops where students worked during recreation hours. In a few institutions, military drill was used.

In 1852, Dr. Charles Beck, a German refugee, and pupil of Jahn’s, established the Round Hill Gymnasium at Northampton, Massachusetts. Dr. Charles Follen and Dr. Francis Lieber, also German refugees, helped to introduce the Jahn gymnastics into America.

Shortly before the Civil War, Amherst, Harvard and Yale erected gymnasia. Amherst College which was first to name a

Digitized by CjOOQLe
55

Professor of Hygiene and Physical Education, has received credit for clearly demonstrating the proper way in which to organize a department for bodily training. The war gave a stimulus to all forms of bodily exercise, especially to athletic sports.

In 1861, Dr. Dio Lewis opened, in Boston, the first training school in America for the preparation of teachers of physical education. Eighteen years later. Dr. Dudley Allen Sargent was chosen director of the Hemenway gymnasium erected at Harvard. He has developed a large number of appliances especially useful in producing a symmetrical and harmonious development. Through addresses, magazine articles and books, he has exerted a powerful influence in favor of physical education.

Dr. Luther Halsey Gulick, an ardent advocate of the efficient life, has advanced the cause of physical education in many ways, especially in perfecting methods for the conduct of classes in the Young Men’s Christian Association. In 1890, Baron ‘Nils Posse opened in Boston a training school for instruction in Swedish gymnastics.

It would be impossible in this brief account to name all of the physical educators, foreign and American, whose work is bearing fruit here. Practically all the Old World systems have been transmitted to this country to be worked over and accepted or discarded according to whether or not they met the needs of the people. No single system has yet been adopted. Though America claims for herself the origination only of the Indian game of lacrosse, the “bean bag” game invented by Dio Lewis, and a few other forms of exercises of minor rank, yet she had adapted various methods so effectively that physical training can be credited with a generous contribution to the health and vigor of the nation.

BUILDING UP OUR NATIONAL PHYSIQUE.

Military statistics have revealed national physical deficiencies toward which we Americans, as a people, can no longer be indifferent. During 1917, nearly a third of the country’s best manhood, examined under the Selective Service Law, was rejected on account of physical unsoundness. Many of the men who were first accepted and sent to the training camps were later rejected for physical reasons, and the further weeding out when the nervous and mental tests were given brought the total of rejects up to fully forty per cent. We have yet to know the results of the examinations in the thirty-one to forty-five class, but experts have voiced the opinion that in this class it will range upward of sixty per cent. The percentage of rejects among the candidates for the S. A. T. C. reached twenty-five per cent.

The testimony of the physical examinations among school children in certain states, and that of the Life Extension Institute in regard to men and women of all ages, classes and conditions, add their story of physical unfitness, to the military findings; and health statistics show tuberculosis, heart disease, arterial diseases

Digitized by LjOOQle
66

nervous collapses and insanity to have increased during the last ten years.

We are forced to conclude that in our haste to get wealth and power we have lost sight not only of those things which make for a better life, but even of those things which make for the perpetuation of life itself. The situation seems, indeed, discouraging. But it is reassuring to know that experts have been seeking remedies for the condition, and that students of human life have been steadily and patiently working out methods of getting at the causes. According to Dr. Eugene L. Fisk, of the Life Extension Institute, sixty per cent of the whole condition revealed by military statistics is preventable, being due to poor general physical condition remediable by proper nutrition, physical training and personal hygiene, to defective eyes and bad mouth conditions, and to neglected surgery.

The whole matter comes back to the crying need for some system of compulsory physical education for our children of school age. The only rational way to have this is to build it into and make it an integral part of our school system. Charles W. Eliot, President Emeritus of Harvard University, said recently in writing on this subject:

“To secure for every child in the country a complete course of physical training is a great national object for war times and peace times alike, and such a course should be planned and enforced by national authorities; and part of the expense of the course should be borne by the National Government. The Swiss Federal Council prescribes the program of physical training for every school in Switzerland, and appoints and pays the national inspectors who see that this program is carried out. The Federation also makes ' a small contribution to the cost of this training throughout the Republic. The war with Germany has already taught us that the United States should henceforth and at once do the same thing in aid of the much larger expenditures of the States and the municipalities on the same all-important subject, and should make sure that the training is actually given. When a proper course of training has been in operation all over the United States for ten years the productiveness of the national industries will show a great increase, the number of children in the average family will also increase, and there will not be so many stooping, crooked, stunted, slouching, awkward people in the streets and factories as there are now.”

Only lately some of our leading educators and prominent national figures have turned their attention toward hastening that day. The Playground and Recreation Association of America at the request of the National Committee on Physical Education, has established a national Physical Education Service, with the aim of disseminating through the various states the best thought of leaders in this field; of stimulating the necessaiy state legislation for compulsory physical, education; and of rendering every possible assistance to the states in planning and securing such legislation. Seven states have already enacted such laws within the last two years (New York, New Jersey, Nevada, Rhode Island, California

Digitized by
57

Maryland and Delaware), and in many other states the matter has been brought up before the legislatures.

France has profited by the revelations of physical inefficiency made by the war and has started a movement which is resulting in a reorganization of the whole education system so as to include compulsory training and athletics. England has already passed such laws, effective for all children of school age (six to eighteen) with special provision for physical examination and treatment. The Minister of Education declares that never again shall it be said that the physical welfare of the country’s youth is given consideration only for the terrible uses of war. Special provision is made, under the new law, for physical training for mental and physical defectives, and for children attending nursery schools. New systems of swimming pools and baths are also to be provided under it at the discretion of local educators.

Interesting points in the new French legislation are: the institution of outdoor schools and colonies for physically defective children; a complete reorganization of school medical inspection systems; and, (a point which will be suggestive to both parents and teachers in this country), the simplification of school programs “which are frightfully overloaded and tend to destroy energy.” Even the unthinking general public has come to realize vaguely that such a simplification would not be amiss in this country, and it may come without great delay. Dr. Willard Small, of the Bureau of Education, said recently, “In education we may soon come to recognize that physical and spiritual and moral efficiency, which come with true development of physical powers, has more importance than grammar or any other study. Before we get through with this, we may have to turn some of our values upside down."

“Obviously,” the people back of the Physical Education Service admit, “no system of education however broadly conceived can, singlehanded, make our youth physically, morally, and socially fit for the duties of citizenship and the full joy of wholesome living. Good housing, good food, and sane regulation of juvenile labor are equally necessary, but an adequate and effective system of physical education will surely stimulate the development of these other agencies.”

What life in the open air coupled with systematic physical training will do has been demonstrated in every training camp, from which delicate, pallid youths have emerged at the end of a few months, robust, sinewy, with exuberant spirits, iron endurance and a new zest of life. These things should be a natural heritage, and when the states have provided as a part of every child’s training sufficient physical activity to ensure development of strength, endurance, agility, and the moral and social qualities of courage, self-control and initiative, we will have a youth as full-lived and efficient as was our victorious army. That each state’s legislation should be sufficiently comprehensive in its scope to ensure this, is an especial concern of the new Physical Education Service. In-

Digitized by kjOOQle
58

dividual physical examinations at sufficiently close intervals to ensure an accurate record of the child’s development are almost as essential as the training itself. Provision for the correction of deficient bodily conditions that impair health and development is also considered expedient.

Not so long ago, Theodore Roosevelt, who was honorary president of the Playground and Recreation Association of America, said, “I hope that soon all our public schools will provide in connection with the school buildings and during school hours the place and time for the recreation as well as the study of the children— for it is the natural right of every child to have the recreation which shall enable him properly to attain the high purpose for which he was created.” And we cannot but feel now that one of the most valuable movements that has grown out of the war is that which is going to speed the realization of his hope.

ORGANIZED PLAY AND COLOR CONTESTS.

S. SACKS, Philadelphia.

The organized play activities in our school were of three kinds:

(1)	Organized recess games with a team of boys and a team of girls representing each class and competing against other classes.

(2)	Color contests of teams organized within the class, during the regular physical training period.

(3)	Annual Track and Field Color Meet.

Environment is the great factor in determining the proper time to hold organized school play and color contests. In our community most of the boys and girls of the upper grades work after school hours, or must hurry home to help the busy parents. It was necessary to hold all of our activities either during the 15 minute recess period or the- regular half-hour physical training period. Of course, the small yards were vital factors in determining the character and the number of games which could be played. Each yard measured approximately 30 feet by 100 feet. Fire escapes and storm doors protruded into the yard, and a giant stride and swing frame occupied considerable space.

The games were chosen with the distinct purpose of ultimately preparing the boys and girls for the annual Field Day events, and at the same time to give them good, vigorous, healthful, stimulating, body building, and supervised play.

Organization was simple. The average class numbers approximately forty (40) pupils, twenty boys and twenty girls, a sufficient number to insure the presence of one team of boys and one team of girls at all times; but not enough to provide for two teams each. Captains were selected by the boys and girls of each class. During the regular physical training period the regular classroom teachers were asked to play the various games, which had been chosen for the contest. The Captains were to select the teams which were to represent their class in the leagues, thus the re-

Digitized by
59

sponsibility was placed upon the Captain and leadership developed. He was compelled to have his team ready on scheduled time.

The games selected for the organized play were Volley Ball for the boys of the seventh and eighth grades, End Ball for the girls of the seventh and eighth grades and Dodge Ball for the boys and girls of the fifth and sixth grades.

To make competition equal three leagues were formed, one for the eighths, one for the sevenths, one for the sixths and fifths. Since there were three leagues, and but two could play each day, it was necessary to arrange a schedule to meet this condition.

The rules for competition were drawn, a schedule arranged, and copies of each were sent to each classroom teacher with a request that they be kept posted in a conspicuous place.

Rules.

(1)	When Room number appears on schedule boys and girls each play on that day.

(2)	Boys’ teams to consist of 9 boys (Volley Ball).

Boys’ teams to consist of 12 boys (Dodge Ball).

Girls’ teams to consist of 12 girls (End and Dodge Ball).

(3)	Teams to be selected by captain elected by class.

(4)	Full teams must be ready for play at 10:20 or the team not ready will forfeit the game.

(5)	Games to end not later than when the bell sounds announcing the end of recess.

(6)	Assisting teachers to keep score of, referee, etc. one of the games. Two games, Standing Broad Jump, Basket Ball Far Throw or Shuttle Relay in each yard each day.

(7)	Score:

A game won counts 2 points.

A game lost counts 0 points.

A game tied counts 1 point each.

(8)	In Standing Broad Jump and Basket Ball Far throw and Shuttle Relay the entire class is to participate.

It was found most advisable to give one teacher entire charge of one activity for the entire season. The judgment of this teacher was supreme. His decisions were never questioned. Play fields were painted upon the yards so that they were available at all times for league games, or intra class games.

The leagues were active throughout the entire school year. Games which were postponed because of inclement and cold weather were played off at some other time.

The Fall and Winter league season, lasted about fourteen weeks, during which time about 300 games were played, and about 6500 children took part. (90 different children each school day). Score boards were placed in both yards, and results posted each day. Thus the children were able to follow the progress of their teams.

These games created a great school spirit. About half of the children were in actual competition. The few who could not

Digitized by LaOOQle
60

play, watched and cheered for their teams. Everybody was kept interested and disciplining was at a minimum. During the Spring and Summer league season, the Standing Broad Jump, Basket Ball Far Throw, and the Shuttle Relay Race were added. The schedule was arranged, so that the classes not contesting in the games were competing in the field events. Records were kept, and at the end of the year, those making the best averages for the three events were chosen to represent the school on field day.

Of the twelve classes at recess, during this period, the boys and girls of six different classes were contesting at each recess. One hundred seventy children (170) were actively engaged each school day. About 12,000 children took part during this league season. The average record for each event for all ages was marked in the yard, so that the children may practice and strive to improve in their leisure time.

Intra Class Games.

When the department of physical education gave permission to re-arrange the time to be devoted weekly to physical exercises this gave the opportunity to schedule two half hour periods weekly, instead of the daily 15 minute periods. As a result the entire spirit in our School changed. The period was divided into two parts. The first for the exercise and the second for the games. It was this game period that proved the savior.

Every teacher was asked to organize the class in the following fashion:

Arrange boys and girls according to size.

Have them count, off, by twos.

Ones are blues, twos are golds (school colors).

Each team elects captain to supervise.

Thus every boy and every girl in the class was a member of one of these teams. All were to play and none were to watch. Unlike interscholastic or interclass activities, where only the chosen few compete, here every boy and girl takes an active part in the various games in contest. The children who are not so physically strong, and who really need this form of exercise compete favorably with their stronger brothers and sisters. The results are very beneficial. If one team proves too strong, a slight change evened matters. These teams remained practically unchanged all term. During the play period the teachers were asked to hold the following events:

1.	Basket Ball Far Throw

2.	Standing Broad Jump

3.	Shuttle Relay and play the following games:

4.	Pass Ball Relay

5.	Battle Ball

6.	Dodge Ball

7.	End Ball

8.	Volley Ball

The victorious teams in each event scored one point. The

Digitized by
61

points were kept and totaled weekly, thus the interest of the entire class was sustained. The children always looked forward to the physical training period, or the play hour, as they called it. Under the guidance of the teacher they developed a fine spirit of fair play and team work. They learned to know that team work was necessary if they would win. They no longer tried to play individual games and instead learned to co-operate with their team mates. This spirit reflected not only in their play, but also in their work in the class room, and their attitude toward the school and teacher.

All points scored by the various teams of the different classes were compiled and together with records were kept conspicuously posted.

When Field Day approaches, there is never a hurry to organize. The organization has been going on all year. The victorious team in the Volley Ball League, represents the school in Volley Ball. The victorious Dodge Ball team represent the school in Dodge Ball, etc. A record of the best jump and throw and run of each child is kept. Probably a month before Field Day the teachers are asked to subdivide their teams into Juniors and Seniors. With the records which they keep on hand, each teacher is asked to send in the names of the best three individual performers in each class-boys-girls-seniors-juniors. From these the teams are chosen.

The Annual Track and Field Color Meet.

At the end of each year a meet is staged. Competition is open to all the boys and girls in the school. The events held are practically the same as those which have been contested throughout the school year. The number of entries is unlimited. The points scored by each side are added to the points scored during the year. This concludes the color contests for the year, and the side scoring the greatest number of points is the acknowledged victor for that school year.

THE ECONOMIC VALUE OF PHYICAL TRAINING.

Translation and Resume by W. A. STECHER.

In the recent issues of a Swiss physical training journal the well-known physiologist Dr. F. A. Schmidt of Bonn has a number of articles on the economic value of regulated physical training work. His arguments have equal weight so far as military efficiency is concerned. Dr. Schmidt first calls attention to the necessity of vigorous body-building work in the schools up to 14 years of age. Next he takes up the need of systematic exercise for the following two years up to the end of the 16th year, and finally he speaks of the need of regulated systematic exercise up to the completion of growth to the 20th year.

In order to show the effect of exercise upon strength the author calls attention to Mosso’s experiments undertaken in the higher regions of the Alps, where after 70 days of regular training one of his subjects among many was able to put up a pair of dumbbells each weighing 5 kilograms 126 times, this being an increase of

Digitized by LaOOQle
62

500 per cent. This experiment very effectively showed the increase of muscular strength by means of regular exercise.

The author next calls attention to the experiments conducted by N. Zuntz and by Durig on the effect of systematic exercise upon the number of calories necessary to accomplish a definite amount of muscular work. After six weeks of regular training one of the subjects was able to perform a definite amount of physical work with 12 per cent less expenditure of calories than at the beginning. At the same time the amount of work accomplished during a minute increased 63 per cent.

These experiments showed that by means of systematic exercise the human machine could be made to function more economically and also more effectively.

Next the author takes up the effect of exercise that is continuous for a greater length of time, that is the effect of exercises of endurance. There are innumerable experiments that show that the result of this type of exercise is of particular value in an economic sense because these exercises produce trained muscles that do not fatigue quickly. What had been missing so far was a scientific investigation that would show what was happening after fatigue set in, in exercises of endurance, because exercise that is indulged in after fatigue had set in would not be of benefit. What happens in the human body after fatigue has set in was demonstrated by scientific investigations undertaken by Weber in Dahlem in the year 1914 (reported upon in Mind and Body) who showed that with increased muscular work the distribution of the blood changes, and that with the increased action of the heart all the blood vessels in the arms, legs and trunk enlarge, not only those of the working muscles, while simultaneously the blood vessels of the abdominal organs are constricted. That is, with vigorous physical work there occurs a displacement of the mass of blood. The stimulus for this displacement, as Weber showed, comes from the motor centers of the brain. If, however, the work undertaken continues until fatigue sets in, there is a rather sudden reversal of the blood displacement; the blood vessels of the muscles constrict and those of the abdominal organs are filled with blood. Weber, next demonstrated that by working an entirely different set of muscles, also by restricting the amount of work done in a given time (note Taylor’s way of increasing the efficiency of common laborers) it was possible to postpone the onset of fatigue and actually accomplish more work in a given period of time.

The author then took up the question of what effect trained muscles had upon the blood displacement spoken of above; that is, how did systematic physical training effect this condition? Weber’s subsequent experiments showed that if an untrained subject was under consideration, a definite amount of vigorous muscular work showed that even after a rest period of fifteen minutes there still was a displacement of blood from the working musdes to the abdominal organs. There was definite fatigue making further effective work impossible. If, however, a trained subject
63

was under consideration, and even if the amount of muscular work was much greater than that to which the untrained person was subjected, the blood showed a normal condition after a rest period of fifteen minutes; there were no signs of a blood displacement to the abdominal organs; that is, this person was in a condition to continue work without harm.

The author, therefore, concludes that systematic vigorous exercise that takes in all parts of the body increases the effectiveness of all muscles; that it increases the output and decreases the cost, and that it postpones fatigue. Regular systematic physical training, therefore, has a great economic value. Besides this, effective exercise also increases and strengthens will power, determination, courage and it enhances the joy of work.

The author next calls attention to the fact that the argument may be used that some manual trades and vocations develop the muscles as effectively as does physical training. A critical investigation, however, shows that as a rule where there is much muscular work this usually is one sided and that it affects only definite sets of muscles, and that, therefore, such work never can have a beneficent effect upon the musculature of the entire "body and upon the general resistance of the body.

These effects, however, are of fundamental importance during the final years of growth, that with boys is from the 14th to about the 20th year. To prove this fact the author brings evidence to show the effect that a strong power of resistance has upon the prevalence of tuberculosis. Based upon the reports of citizen-soldiers the following facts are presented:

1.	All soldiers who contracted tuberculosis during their training had 1 to 1.2 c. m. less chest girth than normal for their height.

2.	Of the men who were physically fit at 20 years of age and were then inducted into the Army, 2.4 per thousand contracted tuberculosis.

3.	Of the men who because of weak musculature, insufficient chest girth or other-remediable growth defects were inducted into the Army when they were over 22 years of age, 26.2 per thousand contracted tuberculosis, that is, eleven times as many as among those who were physically fit at 20 years.

Even among those young men who because of physical unfitness at 20 were inducted at 21 or 22 years tuberculosis claimed practically twice as many, 4.7 and 4.3 per thousand, as among those of the first draft.

It may be said, therefore, that those young men who during their final years of growth and development, that is, from the 14th to the 19th year, have had sufficient physical exercise that insures to them normal height, weight, strength, as well as chest girth and chest capacity, so that they are physically fit for induction into the Army at 20 years have a high resistance power against tuberculosis.

The next question is, has regular physical training a greater effect upon development than bodily work in general, and is this

Digitized by Google
64

effect demonstrable? The answer to the question is given in the results of researches by Dr. Matthias of Zurich, published in 1916 under the title, “The effect of bodily exercise upon bodily growth.” 747 older boys and young men from seventeen different localities in Switzerland, and of different vocations were used for the experiments. Part of these subjects had just begun to exercise while some had taken part in systematic physical training work for several years. It was found that up to the fifteenth year there was a decided increase in length. With the sixteenth year there began a decided increase in weight, also an increase in breadth. The heart practically doubles in size from the fourteenth to the eighteenth year. It was found that the sixteenth and seventeenth years were the most advantageous for general bodily development. Beginning with the eighteenth year there was a gradual decrease in the rate of growth as well as in weight, although there still was a tendency to increased growth in breadth. After the twentieth year there was little growth excepting that weight continued to increase slowly. During all these years, however, those who had exercised regularly for several years were decidedly ahead in all measurements of those who just had begun to take systematic physical training work.

Resume. Experiments have proved that regulated physical exercise favorably influences growth in height, breadth and weight. If no vigorous exercise is indulged in during the developmental years growth in height nevertheless is accomplished, but it takes place during the years that should be devoted to breadth development. In consequence this growth in breadth and in chest circumference (heart and lungs) is incomplete or delayed. It also has been shown that young men who are physically well developed at twenty years have greater power of resistance than those wh® develop later. All effort should therefore be made to increase the time and the facilities needed for vigorous physical training from the fourteenth to the completion of the eighteenth year. Anything that interferes with the bodily growth and development that should take place at this time • interferes with the later efficiency of the young man.

THE PRACTICAL VALUE OF PSYCHOLOGICAL TESTS— DO THEY FIND THE BRIGHT AND DULL PUPILS?

A. H. SUTHERLAND, School Psychologist, Los Angeles, Calif.

Any instrument, in the manipulation of which an individual shows his information, ability, or knowledge, is a psychological object. Any set of psychological objects arranged to constitute a problem to an individual is a psychological test.

Every recitation is a test for those who take part in it. Every examination, written or oral, is a test. Every examination of a form used by others or set before pupils elsewhere is a psychological test. Every formal set of exercises or every formal set of questions on which the performance of normal children is known ad-

Digitized by LjOOQle
65

vances a stage toward greater accuracy and is therefore a form to be preferred. Every set of questions or every outline of activities to be performed on which the normal performances of children of different abilities or ages is known is a scientific test, because it lends itself to classification of results and prediction on the basis of the results. But of all the general abilities shown in school work, or playground, or sloyd, or other manual operations, the laboratory has shown that these are made up of simpler mental and nervous functions which have become integrated by practice. The test which is aimed to expose the stage of advancement attained by an individual in the performance of one of these simpler operations is the product of laboratory psychology, and is the only kind of test which can finally be of educational service.

A Binet test is a set of particular questions from which it is easy to generalize. It is therefore spoken of as a general-intelligence test. By means of this test it is possible to compare the relative accuracy of teachers’ judgments with a scientific test. Of 1000 children tested in the Los Angeles schools (all the pupils of twenty-two ungraded rooms and two parental schools and the failures in Grades I to VI in twenty-two elementary schools) the follow ing comparison has been made:

Teacher’s Judgment	Scientific	Test

Ungraded rooms .100 per cent defective 74.2 per cent defective

Parental schools....100 per cent defective 81.0 per cent defective

Non-promotion ______100 per cent defective 36.4 per cent defective

It cannot be doubted that many factors enter into the judgment of the teacher which are eliminated by the scientific test. This is indeed the purpose of the scientific test.

Any test is as good as, and no better than, the person who uses it. There is some pretense that certain psychological tests can be used automatically and mechanically. I have not found it so in my own experience. After teaching several hundred teachers to perform some of the rough preliminary tests (such as the Binet in one or more of its modifications) I have become more and more convinced that teachers will find innumerable ways to vary the procedure; and I am also firmly convinced that they will not do full justice to the child unless they do vary their procedure. There is the arithmetic, reading, spelling, and geography tests are being used to diagnose mental defect. This is frequently a rank injustice to the pupils. In many cases I have found a high grade of mentality in children who have fallen in the lower quartile on the standardized school tests. Every teacher should learn to perform the tests, not for purposes of diagnosis of children, but for the guidance of her own behavior toward them.

Tests should be used analytically. First find the arithmetical operation, the reading operation, the spelling operation, which can be performed at or above the median; then find the information and ability as indicated by some modification of the Binet test; and in the light of these two facts test the senses, perceptions, memories, associations, discriminations, apperceptions, and logical

Digitized by UjOOQle
66

abilities as indicated. It is clear, if this is good advice, that a psychological-laboratory training is indispensable to accurate testing.

In some school systems of approximately 10,000 children there will be solved the problems of speed classes, extra promotions, and the care of backward and defective pupils. Here, I venture to predict, the schoolroom tests will be performed, not once merely, but at regular intervals as practice exercises. The teacher and pupil in collaboration will work out for each pupil his learning curve. The pupil will find in this objective marking system a basis of comparison of his own abilities and progress coordinate with similar marking methods of the playground and of life. He will find in it his best stimulus and his best reward. He will cultivate the moral qualities, the manly and womanly qualities, the social qualities, and the individuality which society will demand of him. He will remodel the teacher. From a day laborer engaged in shoveling facts into thick heads she will begin to assume her proper function, that of guide and inspiration to the enthusiasms of life.

Psychological tests, in the hands of the expert, not only find the bright and the dull pupils but enable us to grade them and rank them objectively. More important still, we are enabled to discover what to do for them, and to predict with a fair measure of scientific accuracy the extent to which they will avail themselves of the opportunities which are set before them.

EDUCATION TOWARD THE FORMATION OF MORAL

CHARACTER.

DAVID SNHDDEN, Professor of Education, Teachers College Columbia University, New York, N. Y.

Society, as it becomes more complex and develops higher standards of individual and social well-being, is always requiring more of its schools, those specialized educational agencies to which are progressively transferred functions of training and instruction heretofore performed incidentally or informally thru life itself, apart from the school. During the last ten years all progressive educators have been industriously studying and planning the development of vocational schools to supplement, in response to the insistently voiced demands of many social agencies, the historic forms of general or liberal education which had already been freely developed in public schools. Now that we have achieved substantial results in laying the foundations of public vocational schools, I predict that the next great question which will, for many years, engage the efforts of the public and of educators who can think and plan will be that of the moral education which can produce in individuals the moral character required to meet the needs of a highly developed democracy in the twentieth century.

In facing the problems of what will in this paper, for the sake of brevity, be called “character education/’ it is of the utmost

Digitized by CjOOQle
67

importance that the National Education Association, thru its members or thru select committees, give especial attention to the following questions:	(a)	What are the present and future urgent

needs for better character education than we now get thru the home, the church, and other social agencies than the schools? (6) What do our public schools now accomplish toward character education? (c) What are some of the possibilities of improved character education in the schools in the near future? (d) What are the needs of further investigation and research?

o) The acute problems of character education for our age and conditions begin when the youth, at ten or twelve years of age, begins to share actively in social life outside the home. Here he finds himself in the atmosphere of independence and free judgment produced by democracy and the scientific spirit of our time. It helps us not at all to say that he is not ready for this new freedom. The simple social fact is that such freedom exists in the social surroundings of at least 95 per cent of the young people of America today. At ten or twelve years of age the girl almost always, and the boy often, are still plastic and responsive to the controls of the only social pressures that greatly affect them—the home, the school, and sometimes the church. Within six or eight years at most a majority of the girls and almost all the boys have, during their active waking hours, come to live in a social environment which is little influenced by standards of home, church, or even school in the narrower academic sense. In this environment, in curiously mixed ways, independence of judgment, disregard of authority as such, and liberty of action prevail and are even cherished, except within and with reference to the limited social groups which, under the influence of instinct and custom and sometimes strong leadership, constitute the central facts of social life for most young persons. For them these six or eight years usually constitute their period of initiation into self-supporting employment, power to live almost completely away from the home, readiness to take part in political movements, and the beginnings of courtship acquaintance with the opposite sex. Here lie the most acute needs and the most pressing problems of character education.

b)	But let us not make the mistake of undervaluing or misinterpreting the present accomplishments of the schools in character education. In a very real sense our existing schools do the work now expressly committed to them fairly well as respects both character education and other forms of education. Upon the American high school, as an educational agency, for example, there are laid, by controlling authorities, just two types of work and responsibility: first, to teach, in accordance with well-understood standards, certain subjects giving knowledge and skill, such as algebra, history, chemistry, typewriting, English language, civil government, and the like; and secondly, while doing this, to insure, by means of the personalities and examples of teachers, machinery of discipline, and some influence exerted on those voluntary activities of the pupils which intimately affect their school life and work, that the school as a little social world shall itself be orderly, harmonious,

Digitized by Google
68

co-operative, refined, elevating, and withal democratic. Do we explicitly ask the school to do any more than this?

Is it not a fact that in view of the demands thus explicitly made and the means provided the American high school is doing these tasks fairly well?

Let the American teachers as well as the American people take no small credit to themselves for the relative excellence of the social life of our schools. Year by year the public demands that our teachers shall be yet more inspiring in their personality, clean in their morals, refined in their manner, democratic in their attitude. ' The old school vices—bullying, obscenity, destructive mischief, lying, cheating, brutality of teachers, servility of pupils— have been waning for many years. The typical primary school today is one to which children go enthusiastically and unafraid, and from which they come uncowed, unbrutalized, unroughened. The typical school of the upper grades carries a sad load in its enforced attendance of unadjusted pupils, its unvitalized curriculum, and its unspecialized teaching force; nevertheless, even here, the machinery of control and the personalities of teachers maintain a little society orderly enough for the work that can be done. The typical high school is of course attended only by the select of the community; nevertheless we can well wonder at the orderly and attractive social spirit which prevails.

c)	Our schools then, we may say, are now reasonably effective agencies of character formation so far as that character is essential to the social requirements of the school group life itself. But is this any adequate guaranty that the men and women finally produced will be properly socialized for the larger responsibilities of life? It certainly is not. Sometimes the virtues produced in the social environment of the school carry over into later life and sometimes they do not.

Superficially considered, at least, we should expect the standards of dress and personal tidiness required in high school to carry over into later life, because these are standards largely developed during adolescence in all cases. Habitual forms of behavior established between boys and girls during the high-school period will probably continue operative, for the same reasons, at least as between social equals, for many years. On the other hand, it may well be doubted whether the standards of “fair play” maintained on the playground can be expected to carry over into adult business and politics where conditions and incitements are necessarily so different. We expect that the boy who has displayed industriousness and initiative in the high school will continue to display these qualities in adult life; but the opposite expectation, that the boy lacking in application and industry in school will not improve or change when he comes under the social pressure of working for rewards that he greatly desires, is so often negatived by experience that we can as yet draw no reliable conclusions.

The possibilities of improving the character education of the schools are therefore of two kinds: we may in specific respects im-

Digitized by LjOOQle
prove upon the procedures already reasonably good, by which we now make the school an effective little social community toward the service of its own ends; and we can seek to discover ways and means whereby we can use the school life of the pupil to produce the qualities now most required in adult social life and which existing agencies fail adequately to produce.

We are continually at work, of course, on the improvement of school society. We are increasing the rewards of public-school teaching and therefore the attractiveness of the profession (if the courtesy-title can yet be allowed) to persons, especially unmarried women, of fine personality and good character. Public demand is steadily enforcing higher standards of social order in the schools. Experiments in establishing some form of self-government for school or classroom, in providing more abundant outlets for surplus physical energy in play and sports, in surrounding school life with the social sedatives of recreational reading and play, in providing thru the practical arts studies for the orderly expression of workmanship instincts, in forming parents into conferences whereby home and school control can be made mutually to reinforce each other—all these, and scores of other old processes being improved or new ones being introduced represent, in their composite form, movements of much magnitude looking to the conscious,, progressive evolution of the school.

What can the public school do, in any of its grades or types, as conscious character education toward the requirements of the adult society which as yet lie far ahead? For the purposes of a character education that shall function specifically in good adult citizenship our more promising opportunities are in schools dealing with youth from twelve years of age upward. Here some promising developments have already been begun. Within moderate limits we believe now that, given a mastery of means and methods yet to be worked out, we can enable the youth to obtain some intellectual apprehension of the structure and. functions of the community social life in which, a few years hence, he must play his part. By means of social-science studies yet to be developed and probably by studies of history pedagogically organized in ways as yet only beginning to be understood we can give the prospective citizen really vital appreciations of the complexity of the social machinery of which he is a part, and of the importance of his playing a worthy role therein. In this transitional adolescent age we realize more perhaps than did our forebears the importance of those ideals which, deeply felt and concretely perceived, have the effect often of becoming the incitements of definite and persisting motives. We do not yet know how to produce these ideals as a steady crop; but having in mind the tremendous influence of rare personalities, of certain types of vital literature and other art, and of new social groupings like the Boy Scouts and boys’ clubs, we are slowly developing the conviction that there are yet to be discovered pedagogic ways and means whereby, over long eras and on a large scale, we can realize the valuable results for which we are now indebted to volunteer and, almost of necessity, more or less sporadic effort.

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
70

From many sources we educators are slowly building up a body of convictions, resolves, and partial insights which will yet serve as the fertile soil out of which workable and effective programs shall spring. We are beginning to see our present high school curricula in their true light—as withered and almost unserviceable survivals of ancient practices and mistaken conceptions of educational means. We have ceased to have faith in the traditional organization of our schools for children from twelve to fourteen years of age; and as we proceed to put into effect reorganizations already planned here, we shall undoubtedly open the way for the beginnings of some really vital character education toward the ends of adult life. A thousand signs in the field of adolescent education point the way to new analyses of educational goals, to new developments of means and methods, and to new achievements of results on a plane much higher than that on which we have heretofore worked.

d)	Progress in education in the past has come as the result of a slow trial-and-error process, varied occasionally by the minor revolutions wrought by the dynamic powers of some creative thinker or exceptionally forceful executive. Of progress due to scientific inquiry, carefully planned experimentation, or the execution of deliberately matured programs, education has almost none to show as yet. Nevertheless every forward-looking educator eagerly anticipates the day when educational aims and processes can be systematically improved and advanced by methods that can properly be called scientific. We are at present hardly within sight, in any concrete and comprehensive sense, of such a vision, but we have come to the stage of promising beginnings. Where some of the adjuncts of education are concerned—lighting and ventilation of classrooms, cost accounting, etc.—recent developments have been in a measure along scientific lines. The effectiveness of different methods of training or instruction in the more formal of primary-school studies, as well as objectives in at least two, spelling and arithmetic, has recently been subjected to tests conceived in a scientific spirit and so executed as to give large promise of valuable results in practice in the near future. Contemporary efforts to supplement existing public schools of general education by others designed to offer to the rank and file workers certain specific forms of vocational education have been made at least partially effective by inquiries of a reasonably scientific character.

Toward furthering the extensions and readjustments of education for the formation of moral character, as discust in this paper, are there practicable, scientific inquiries, well-sustained experiments, systematic applications on a generous scale to objectives and methods of already demonstrated worth? Must the further development of programs in this field wait the outcome of endless exchanges of half-metaphysical dialectics, and the blind fumblings of innovators driven by force of external conditions or lured by a faint inner light? Surely in these days when social consciousness in individuals, and even in many groups, is so wide-awake we can hope for something better. The National Education Association

Digitized by LaOOQle
71

has not ignored its responsibilities and its opportunities in this field heretofore; but assuredly its duty is as yet far from being done.

Under the auspices of the National Education Association, as well as of other educational organizations, can be formed committees created especially for the discovery, analysis, and documentary statement of the specific problems of character education which lie ahead of us.

The members of all teachers’ organizations can do much to co-operate, by moral encouragement and by discriminating study of findings, with the endowed and other voluntary agencies now working on the problem involved. In time, if not now, certain of the results of the work of these organizations will have reached the point where their definite application in school programs will be safe and desirable.

From time to time, owing to the generosity of some philanthropist or enterprise of an administrator, experimental work on a large scale will be possible. Educators appreciative of scientific method can encourage such experimentation and quietly urge that it be planned and conducted in accordance with scientific method. They can give such experiments time to produce some definite results instead of indulging sometimes in hasty criticism and rejection and sometimes in equally hasty adulation and acceptance.— Journal N. E. A.

MEASURING HUNGER.

A method of measuring and comparing degrees of hunger, and for ascertaining its nature more exactly, has been devised by Dr. A. J. Carlson and described by him in a book recently published. by the University of Chicago, entitled “The Control of Hunger in Health and Disease.” Some of Dr. Carlson’s interesting results are his proof that hunger disappears as starvation progresses, his confirmation of the efficacy of tightening one’s belt to diminish hunger-pangs, and his discovery that smoking relieves them to a very considerable extent. Exercise and cold baths increase hunger. Our quotations below are from an article based on Dr. Carlson’s book, contributed to The Illustrated World (Chicago, June) by Dr. Hermann B. Deutsch. Writes Dr. Deutsch: “Dr. Carlson’s work has involved the accurate measuring of hunger ‘contractions’ through some experiments which would have , got him burned at the stake as a sorcerer in Galileo’s day. He has measured carefully the pressure and the amount of stomach-contraction in human beings during health and sickness, during waking periods and during sleep, during repletion and during starvation, in new-born infants, in dogs of high and low degree, in rabbits, guinea-pigs, pigeons, turtles, frogs, and snakes. By inserting into the stomach a double-walled rubber balloon, with bismuth-paste between the two walls, he actually has seen the movements of the stomach and photographed them by means of the x-ray. To test the sensitiveness of the inner stomach-wall

Digitized by Google
72

AFTER BREAKFAST.

The Curves Represent Respirations and Slight Unevenness of the Fall Stomach as Recorded by the Machine Described on the Previous Page.

to touch, he has scrubbed out the inside of his stomach with a stiff brush attached to a strong piano-wire. He has gone without food for days to measure the stomach-reactions during starvation.

“He has tested himself after a cold bath in which the water was only a few degrees above the freezing-point and in which he remained ‘as long as was deemed safe, despite discomfort and pain.’ He has measured accurately the effect of smoking on hunger, or the effect of constricting the belt.

“How can such tests be made? If hunger is merely the feeling of hunger, how can it be measured accurately? In general, the following method, devised by Dr. Carlson, was employed in the various experiments.

“The subject of the experiment is directed to swallow a small rubber balloon, to which is attached a very flexible tube of rubber. The balloon is inflated after it reaches the stomach, and the rubber tube is slipped over one end of a glass tube which has been bent into the shape of a ‘U.’ In this U-tube there is a liquid—usually •chloroform or bromoform—and on the surface of the liquid, in the arm of the ‘U’ opposite the one to which the rubber tube is attached, there is a float. From the top of this float there rises an upright, to the top of which a light marker is attached. This marker is so placed that it brushes against a recording surface, which is wound around a revolving drum. As the drum turns, the marker records an even, straight, horizontal line on the recording surface. If the stomach, however, contracts, it compresses the balloon, which acts like any other rubber bulb when it is squeezed by shooting out the contained air; this pushes up the liquid in the U-shaped tube so that it raises the level in the arm bearing the

i,v. &	.. . & 0* &,  ' "■ ■ v	
	t ■ 4 • r : ■	

MODERATE HUNGER—FOUR HOURS LATER.

While Respiration Continues as Before, the Breaks Become Pronounced Moderate Hunger Contractions Being the Stomach’s Call For Lunch.
73

float and its marker, and this marker traces a sharp upward curve on the recording surface as the drum revolves. Thus each contraction of the stomach makes a definite measurable record of its duration and intensity.”

One of the doctor's subjects was unfortunate enough to swallow accidentally a strong solution of caustic soda when he was a boy. This closed the esophagus, so that no food could pass to the stomach. An opening was cut through the abdominal wall, and all food is placed in the stomach through a flexible rubber tube three-fourths of an inch in diameter. Through this tube Dr. Carlson has been able to make inspections of the stomach by putting an electric light into it. Says Dr. Deutsch:

“According to these experiments, what actually happens when we are hungry is this: As soon as the stomach is empty, a series of weak or slight contractions, gradually becoming stronger, takes place. On an average, these contractions last about thirty seconds each, while the entire contraction-period occupies from thirty to forty-five minutes. At first the individual contractions are definitely separated, coming from two to five minutes apart, but toward the end of the period, the more vigorous contractions follow one another immediately and without interruption. Indeed in young and vigorous individuals the contractions come so rapidly toward the end of the period that they form a ‘tetanus,’ or cramp, of uninterrupted contraction, which endures for several minutes. This is the ‘hungry stomach-ache’ that was such a common affliction in our knickerbocker days.

“This period of contractions is the hunger-period, and each individual contraction is a hunger-pang. The periods come anywhere from half an hour to two and a half hours apart in normal, ■ healthy adults. In infants, where Professor Carlson has measured the hunger contractions by this same balloon method, the con-traction-periods come much more frequently, and sometimes will cause babies to show restlessness, wake up, and cry.

“There is no doubt but that stomach contraction produces hunger sensations. The sensation as recorded in the minds of the people experimented with and the stomach contractions as recorded on the revolving drum run absolutely hand in hand. In fact, where Dr. Carlson induced artificial contractions of the stomach, such contractions were felt by the subjects of the experiment as hunger, and were defined as such.

“One of the points which Dr. Carlson has brought out is the fact that a sharp distinction must be drawn between hunger and appetite. Appetite is a matter of memory in the individual, the pleasurable thoughts of past enjoyment of edibles naturally causing us to seek similar enjoyable experiences. It is through this medium that ‘appetizers’ work. The general belief has been heretofore that such substances increase the vigor of the hunger contractions. On the contrary, Dr. Carlson has shown that they temporarily allay these contractions, but produce a sensation which tempts us to get ‘more of the same.’
74

“Every one has read tales of shipwreck and the horrors of starvation, with the increasingly intense and ravenous desire for food. Dr. Carlson and one of his assistants voluntarily have undergone periods of starvation of five days’ duration to determine accurately what takes place. It is true, there is a slight increase throughout the starvation period of the hunger contractions. The records of these experiments show this to be the case. But after the first three days the desire for food diminishes, and sometimes turns to revulsion at the sight of edibles! All discomfort from the experiment disappeared after the first meal following the fasting period, and from the second day thereafter Dr. Carlson states that he felt as tho he had had ‘a pleasant month’s vacation in the mountains.’

“With a definite measurable index as to the strength of hunger, it is possible accurately to determine the results of various external factors on the hunger sensation. For instance, the old cure of tightening one’s belt during cases of extreme hunger can be tested out absolutely. That is what Dr. Carlson has done. He finds that in subjects where there is external pressure on the abdominal muscles, the stomach contractions—that is, hunger-pangs—are very noticeably abated. This is due in part to the distraction of attention from the stomach to pressure on the other organs of the abdomen, and in part to the fact that the sensation of abdominal pressure leads to a feeling of satiety.

“Dr. Carlson has found that smoking inhibits hunger-pangs to a marked extent. This is particularly true of the people who are not habitual smokers. Habitual smokers, however, must turn from mild cigars or cigarets to very strong cigars or pipes before the hunger contractions, as recorded by the balloon method, are diminished. This is Nature’s way of insisting that her needs be met.

.“In the same way, it has been found that exercise, prolonged cold baths, and the like, increase hunger, altho they do not, necessarily, increase the hunger contractions, as Dr. Carlson points out. They do, however, increase the nervous excitability of the individual, so that he becomes more acutely conscious of the hunger-‘pangs’ which follow the typical hunger contractions.” —Literary Digest.

Digitized by floosie
75

O ' I i	■	1.1	I.	I n I	I.	...	O

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

O"—'	' ' ■	—o

MUSCULAR COORDINATION.*

Its Practical Application. And Its Relation to Psychic Processes.

By D. M. F. Krogh, M. D., B. S. G., Newark, N. J.

America has just awakened to the truth of what we have tried to teach her for many years. Efficiency has become the watchword of the nation. Altho gymnastic exercises have for years been a prominent part of the training of the cadets at our officers’ training schools at West Point and Annapolis, and, in our army and navy the recruits as well as the trained soldiers, sailors and marines have been and are taught exercises to promote physical efficiency, inducing and maintaining health, strength, adroitness and endurance, the chief fault or negligence in the past falls to the lot of the primary and secondary schools. But let us not too severely blame them for they have been handicapped in many ways. Fortunately recent events have aroused an interest in motor training not only for the sake of promoting and maintaining health and strength alone but also for the conversion of movement ideas into action that make man more proficient in handling his body, his limbs, and his hands; in other words, to make him more efficient, more useful. At the same time present-day requirements and competition are of such a nature that we must seek means to economize in energy and in time. The muscles therefore must be so trained that they quickly react to nerve-stimuli to secure movements for a certain purpose, to attain the desired or required results with a minimum expenditure of effort, i. e. the movement must be made 1.) by the selection of the proper muscles; 2.) these muscles must contract so that the movement is made in a certain direction without the slightest deviation from it; 3.) the muscular contraction must be of such a degree that the movement is made with a certain velocity, no faster nor slower than necessary; 4.) the muscles must so control the movement that it is made to a certain extent, no further nor nearer. To secure these four muscular

♦Read at the convention of the"Am.[Phys. Ed. Assoc. Section of N. A. G. U. held’A pi il 10-13 1918, atPhila., Pa.

Digitized by LjOOQle
accuracies the proper innervation becomes the paramount requisite. This nerve-function is termed muscular co-ordination.

The physical organs that enter into the function of co-ordinating muscular movements are: the nerves, the spinal cord, the cerebellum, the cerebrum. The semicircular canals, the sense of sight and the kinetic sense also require our consideration in this connection.

To present this subject as clearly as this is here possible, let me first of all remind you of the main anatomical structures requiring our attention. Starting at the periphery of the body, the skin, muscles etc. sensory, or afferent, centripetal nerve fibers lead to the spinal cord entering the posterior horns, traversing it to connect with or rather to terminate in the motor cells in the anterior horns and emanating as motor, or efferent, centrifugal fibers from the front, the anterior part of the cord proceeding to the muscles. This is the simple reflex arc serving for instinctive movements, which constitute the only form of nerve action in many of the lower animals. Some such fibers in man connect motor nuclear ganglia cells, or areas of the cord at different levels, below or above, so that the reflex movement may manifest itself in different parts of the body than those where the sensory stimulus originated. Other sensory fibers extend throughout the entire length in the lateral as well as in the posterior tracts of the cord going to the higher centers of the central nervous system, passing through the pons varolii and medulla oblongata to the brain or cerebellum. The small brain also is connected with the cerebrum; and the lobes, lobules and convolutions of the brain are so united with each other that there is no part of the entire central system that is not in some way linked together with every other portion, so that we have a great and complicated network of nerve fibers which unite nerve cells with each other and with muscles.

In speaking of voluntary muscles and their function we generally hear of flexors and extensors, abductors and adductors as well as rotators, but, in considering their action to secure muscular co-ordination we recognize those that are concerned chiefly with the main amount of work in making the movement, these are called the agonists, those that produce movements opposite to that of these are called the antagonists and those that aid in the movement are called the synergists. The antagonists also are considered as synergists in as much as they by their tension aid the agonists in the precision, velocity and extent of the movement. Duchenne in “Physiology of Movements” calls this function “the antagonistic muscular association.” Besides these we have collateral synergists, muscles whose function it is to secure proper direction, movements in a certain plane. To this group belong the adductors and the abductors. Finally, to prevent rotation of a limb, we have the rotatory synergists.

To co-ordinate muscular activity, as has already been indicated, the following factors require our attention:	1.)	the	selection of

the proper muscles and the degree of their innervation; 2) the direction of the movement; 3.) the velocity of the movement;

Digitized by LjOOQle
77

4.) the extent of the movement; 5.) the uniformity of the movement.

In the young child, and the untrained, muscles are often innervated that take no part in the required movement, or, that are not needed to produce the movement and it must be learnt to shut out the innervation of these, or to minimize the degree of this stimulation. So it may also become necessary to reduce the amount of innervation of the correctly selected muscles or the movement would become too forceful. The inhibitory function, of which I shall speak later, comes into activity in this connection. Force of contraction also depends on the amount or degree of innervation and may be too great in some muscles or not great enough in others, therefore, the regulation of the degree of innervation is not the same for all the muscles that are involved but each of the muscles concerned must receive the exact amount needed for the attainment of the required result without the expenditure of a superabundant quantity of effort, Therefore, we learn to economize energy by proper innervation and associative action of various muscles.

The complexity of the physiologic processes of co-ordination is equally interesting and important in our work of engineering the human machine and to make it more perfect for the purpose of securing for it greater efficiency, greater possibilities.

The simplest form of co-ordination is the spinal. As stated before, this is produced by an irritation or stimulation of peripheral or cutaneous nerves that transmit this sensibility to the posterior roots of the spinal nerves and to the posterior horns of the gray matter of the spinal cord from whence it passes to the anterior (motor) horns into the anterior (motor) roots and finally to the muscles, resulting in their contraction. A sensory impulse has been converted into motor energy. That this periphero-spinal function is not purely reflex in character and that cells of the cord have co-ordinating ability seems to be proved by experiments. Reflexes, pure and simple, involve sensory (afferent or centripetal) and motor (efferent or centrifugal) nerves with cells between them, but spinal co-ordination implies the functioning of a number of cells of a different kind in the cord, the association or co-ordination cells.

In connection with this reflex action and spinal muscular co-ordination of animals it may be of interest to cite the following behavior of different animals after their decapitation: The frog leaps away when he is placed on the ground and he swims when placed into water, his swimming ability being unimpaired; the snake winds its way through the grass, and when raised from the ground it will coil itself around the experimenter’s arm; the rabbit jumps away with his usual gallop; the dog, whose ear is pinched, raises his paw in defense until the stimulus ceases; the cat licks an inflicted wound; the frog wipes away the drop of sulphuric acid irritating his skin, using the foot of the opposite side when the use of the one on the same side is prevented by holding it.

Spinal co-ordination acts very quickly and with automatic
78

certainty, but it has its defects. Many muscles may be put into a state of tension and when the tension of the antagonists is permitted to relax, or when the tension of the agonists is much greater than that of their adversaries the movement is made with great force and undue velocity. The sensory stimuli transmitted to the cord may be too strong causing a tension-development that may become adverse to the production of co-ordinated effects. This tension may also be increased by the tension already developed or by the force of the muscular contractions from the kinetic sensibility. The greater the velocity and force of the movement the quicker and brisker becomes the development of the stretching of the antagonists resulting in greater counter-tension. Now, if movements have to be made in quick succession this counter extension becomes an undesirable hindrance, therefore absolute relaxation of the antagonists becomes desirable. This relaxation is accomplished by overcoming the spinal stimulus which is done by inhibitory nerve-fibres descending from the brain to act upon the gangliacells of the antagonists in the cord, which have been automatically, reflexly stimulated. Nor can we attribute to the spinal cord the ability to find and emit the exact requisite degree to produce the desired tension. This degree of innervation is always only approximate; it depends largely on the degree of sensory stimuli. Therefore, the finer measurement or adjustment and the inhibition or suspension of impulses is controlled, regulated and left to centers of higher power, centers located in the cortex of the brain. That the training of this inhibitory function is of great importance in our work as physical directors will be apparent when we know that much of our behavior is dependent upon our setting it into its proper function by our self-control and judgment. So we make use of the inhibitory area of the brain in a variety of ways: we need it to produce inaction through the will, no matter how great the tension-development, and again it is utilized for action when we will to act, while it is also our governor for the degree of force with which we act, to control, to regulate the movement.

Voluntary movement stimuli emanate from the cerebral cortex. An excitation takes place in the area presiding over the particular muscles, through a movement-idea which is formed by the transmission of impulses that come from the motor-memory-area. The muscular, or kinetic sense also becomes a factor in this connection sending centripetal stimuli to the spinal cord and brain. Striimpell has reported that the sense of sight also enters into the correct co-ordination of the muscles. He records a case of anesthesia in which all cutaneous and kinetic sensibility was paralyzed. The patient, excluding the visual factor by closing the eyes, was unable voluntarily to make a fist, the muscles that open the hand, the extensor digitorum were innervated, and the fingers were extended, widely opening the hand instead of closing it. When the eyes were permitted to be opened the optic factor would compensate for the sensory peripheral and the hand was closed without difficulty. Consciousness of the incorrect selection, there-

Digitized by CjOOQle
79

fore, it may be said, reflects sensory stimuli to motor centers that revert excitations to the proper muscles for the production of the desired or intended movement. Did you notice your pupil place the foot too far forward or not far enough; was it placed straight forward or diagonally in or out; was it in the right position or did he rotate it inward or outward? Let him look at it and he will correct the error of co-ordination which he unintentionally, unconsciously made. Upon several repetitions he will avoid the mistake even without looking at his foot because he has improved his movement concept and his kinetic sense. He knows exactly how the movement should be made and he now feels that he has made it correctly. Yet, this is not all that is needed to understand the process of co-ordination as we shall see later on in our discourse.

Let me illustrate further. Suppose you place a stick or some other object into the palm of the hand of a young child. The stick produces an excitation of the end filaments of the sensory nerves in the palm of the hand which stimulus is transmitted to the spinal cord, converted here into a motor impulse which causes the hand to close. This is a pure spinal reflex. But this action at once causes sensory impulses to be sent to the cortex of the brain producing a memory image which contributes to the formation of a primary movement-concept. Later the child sees an object, the optic image arouses the movement concept of grasping. The required movement is tried, perhaps unsuccessfully; it is tried several times until the object is apprehended, and secured with less effort and a smaller degree of energy. You have seen such or similar forms of child activity many times and do you recall with what delight, with what pleasant sensations the child is filled and how happy it is because it is aware of its ability, its success, its skill? And it is this pleasure of attaining skill and increased efficiency, naturally inherent in our organism that prompts our craving for continual renewed effort to make our activity more effective. While in the young child or untrained dolt inco-ordi-nated movements are made perhaps on account of the innervation of an insufficient number of muscles, we often find in the adult that too great a number of muscles are stimulated which results not only in awkwardness but in actual clumsiness, he shoots beyond the mark, he uses up too much energy and sadly fails. This failure produces sadness, loss of interest and discouragement. You must simplify the movement and gradually lead him up to the ability to select the correct muscles and to secure the proper degree of innervation. Impediment or total exclusion of innervation of muscles that are superfluous to produce the desired effect is accomplished by centripetal impulses from the muscles, bones, joints and ligaments, your pupil must learn to feel that what he js doing is done correctly. We must improve the kinetic sense.

The degree of innervation is controlled or secured in much the same way by checking impulses. The pneumogastric or vagus nerves automatically control the action of the stomach, the heart and the lungs. When we inhale deeply centripetal fibers trans-

Digitized by v^ooQle
80

mit impulses to the respiratory center causing inhibition of impulses to the inspiratory muscles causing their relaxation while at once the expiratory muscles are stimulated by motor fibers resulting in their contraction. In a similar manner the action of the heart, the bloodvessels and the peristaltic movements of the intestines is reflexly functioning in regular natural rhythm. Restriction or limitation given the exact amount of innervation, it may be said, is secured through the will and through sensibility. This function, the regulation of the choice of muscles and the degree of their innervation then becomes one of the masterfunctions of our organism.

While spinal co-ordination acts quickly but in a coarse and automatic manner, the cerebral acts slowly, deliberately, but with finer graduation and with choice, consciously and unconsciously. Needless to say then that the spinal is sub-ordinate, auxiliary to the cerebral co-ordination.

To complete this discourse it remains for us to discuss the part the cerebellum takes in the co-ordination of muscular activity. Sensory paths that convey stimuli from the skin, joints, muscles, tendons and bones enter the lateral cerebellar tract, tract of Gower and the posterior direct cerebellar tract of the cord to terminate in the cerebellum where they come into close relation with the fibers of the vestibulo-cerebellar tract which comes from the vestibular nerve of the internal ear. From the gangliacells in the cerebellum motor fibers emanate which descend by way of the lateral cerebellar tract, the lateral ground bundle and the area of the pyramidal tract to terminate in the gangliacells of the anterior horns of the cord. The vestibular fibers transmit impulses that notify the cerebellum whenever the body is threatened to lose its equilibrium. These warnings are answered by the cerebellum by sending out motor impulses down the cerebello-spinal tract while at the same time signals have been received from the point of danger of loss of equilibrium through the lateral cerebellar tract causing a re-enforced motor neural impulse to the muscles whose function it is to regain, to re-establish the lost balance. The vestibular nerve announces the fact, while the kinetic sense through the lateral cerebellar tract points out where equilibrium is in danger of being lost. This, it will be understood, is a reflex action, but it is a more complex reflex arc than the spiijal in that it adds to the spinal the ve tibulo-cerebellar and the cerebellar and has a special function which the spinal alone has not got. But it also has the same disadvantage or fault found in the simple spinal co-ordination; it has no concept-power and therefore it cannot finely measure or judge the intensity of the impulses like the cerebrum. The brain, therefore, must enter into the activity and furnish its part in the process of innervation. This occurs by way of the direct and the crossed pyramidal tract and through the cerebro-cerebellar fibers that originate in the motor area of the brain and pass through the peduncles to the cerebellum. The latter fibers transmit both motor and inhibitory impulses from the brain to the cerebellum where they connect with cells that send impulses down the cord.

Digitized by Google
81

There are then a great number of co-ordination-mechanisms that may be enumerated as follows:

1.	The sensory-spinal;

2.	The sensory-cerebellar;

3.	The vestibulo-cerebellar;

4.	The sensory-cerebral;

5.	The vestibulo—cerebral;

6.	The visu-cerebral;

7.	The sensory-cerebello-cerebral;

8.	The vestibulo-cerebello-cerebral.

The whole network here described, although intricately connected together in a system of which each separate arc represents a physiologic unit in itself, forms a complex which is united and works in relation with other cerebral areas.

(To be continued.)

Athletics and Their Relation to War.—Dr. D. F. Luby draws attention to the fallacies of our athletic system as developed up to the present time. He points out the uselessness of the object sought, and asserts that there was no gain but rather serious loss to those who participated in athletics in the past. He pleads for a radical change in methods and objectives in the athletics of the preparatory school, the college, and the university. He says that one of the most serious faults of our present athletic system, a vicious, pernicious system, if ever there was one, is the necessity for haste. Tiairers work feverishly and anxiously to develop a winning team. They must develop such a team at all costs because failure means the loss of a job. Medical men and, to a certain extent, military men recognize that there is something wrong with athletics as now conducted in America. If boys are allowed to follow the pernicious course which begins in the grammar school or preparatory school and ends only with the university they must pay the price, as their predecessors have done. To neglect the most careful athletic development of boys is to sap the very roots of strength and vitality in the future material of the Army and Navy.

While it is generally admitted that military training has considerable incidental advantages from the point of view of health, it would seem that the first thing to be considered is the universal physical training of boys. The plan proposed by Luby is as follows: All branches of athletics must be reclassified on the basis of their effects on the heart and other vital organs, and not on the basis of popularity and commercial advantages. In the grammar school the form of athletics to which a boy could be assigned or in which he would be permitted to engage would depend on (1) his family history; (2) his personal history, having regard especially to previous illness endured; (3) his physical status; (4) his particular type, height, weight etc. in relation to age, etc. Every class should have its specially prescribed athletics, both physical and tactical, and under no circumstances should a lad be allowed to engage in competitive athletics assigned to a class above or below his own. A physical examination would mark his entry and
82

exit from a class and he would be marked for development of body and for ability to perform the various tactics. While in the grammar school a chart would be begun for him which would accompany him throughout his educational career.

As the boy passes on to the higher school there should be a consideration of his individual record and his family history. A physical examination should be made and his chart and previous athletic work considered. There should be athletic classes and all members of a school or college should participate, except when exempted for physical disability. Outside competitions with other schools would he reduced and the competitive idea find its illustration principally in interclass games. Work in the gymnasium should accompany and parallel the work done in teams and athletic games. Where students show beyond all reasonable doubt a real and permanent improvement in body and an increased ability to participate in various branches of sport they should receive credits at the hands of the college authorities in the same way that credits are given for scholarship.

All athletics of the more strenuous type and all those contests which inevitably induceeven temporary exhaustion must be abolished. Mass competition, such as that in which a class would participate as a whole, is to be encouraged. New feats of prowess should be introduced. There should be walking contests, wall-scaling contests, obstacle racing, hurdling, shorter relay events, with increased personnel, more soccer football, shot putting with a lighter shot, etc. The athletics of to-day must be remolded and their object clearly defined. Athletics can have no better purpose than to develop a robust and healthy boy who, though he may not be an interscholastic champion or sought after by the larger colleges as likely to increase their fame, will nevertheless enter on his life work with a symmetrical, fully developed body, capable of resisting disease and of enduring physical strain. For such a young man the training camp, the transport, and the trench will not contain the threat of death from disease before his grapple with the enemy.

Reports from General Pershing’s Army showed that the highest mortality from communicable diseases was in the National Army and the lowest in the Regular Army. Luby believes that the variation in susceptibility can be ascribed directly to the variation in the time of preparation and development which these different units have enjoyed, the development of the National Army having been characterized by intensive training and high speed. He believes further that the accumulation of fatigue substances from overtraining for lengthy periods without proper attention to the time element brought about a condition analagous to that seen in the athlete, and it is not to be wondered at that the overtrained soldier should be particularly liable to pneumonia, scarlet fever, influenza, etc. Luby’s study of soldiers on transports confirmed this belief.—The men were trained “too fine!”

Abstracted by “The Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc.” from original article in “The United States Naval Bulletin” July, 1918.
..  in.	in	.1	   O

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

o—— IN' nil	i M I I . II min	O

Frederick G. Foertsch, Schenley High School, Pittsburg, Pa.

PHILADELPHIA PUBLIC SCHOOLS FIELD DAY MASS EXERCISES BELMONT PLATEAU, MAY 24, 1919.

Music: “Hindostan;” Victor Record No. 18507. Fox TrOt Rhythm.

NOTE:—In all positions or movements requiring two or four counts for completion, the movement must be executed on the first count and the position held during the remaining one or three counts.

PART I.	42	measures	168	counts.

counts.

Introduction...............................................   8

1.	(a)	Raise arms sideward, 1-2; upward, 3—4; lower forward,

5-6; downward,	7-8...............................   8

(b)	As (a)............................................... 8

(c)	Raise arms forward, 1-2; upward, 3-4; lower sideward,

5-6; downward, 7-8..................................  8

(d)	As (c)...........................................    8

2. Basketball Farthrow.

(a) Stride left sideward, slightly bend knees, bend trunk foredownward, arms forward, 1-2; straighten trunk and bend slightly backward, raising arms foreupward, and then bending arms, 3-4; straighten trunk and move arms quickly to obliquely foreupward position, 5-6;

return to fundamental position, 7-8.................. 8

(b)	Four marsching steps forward, beginning left 1-4; four marching steps in place, facing left on the first step, 5-8.. 8

(c)	As (a) and (b), repeated 3 times on the lines of a square

left .............................................   48

3. Crouch start and Dash.

(a)	Kneel on right knee hands, placed about four inches in

front of left toe (“on your mark”) 1-4, raise right knee off ground, raise back until parallel to ground, weight shifted slightly forward (get set), 5-8................. 8

(b)	Straighte nup and run forward 4 steps (arms bent), beginning right, 1-4.

Face left about in 4 running steps in place, 5-8........ 8

(c)	As (a) and (b) in the new direction (to the rear)..... 16

(c) As (a) and (b)........................................... 16

(e) As (c)	16

PART II.	40	Measures.	160	counts

1. As No. 1 of Part I...........................................  32

2.	Standing Broad Jump

(a)	Raise arms foreupward and rise on toes, 1-2; half knee bend, swing arms down and back, slightly bending trunk forward, 3-4; jump forward (about 3 feet), swinging

Digitized by CaOOQle
84

3.

(b)

(c)

arms forward, and alight with knees full bend, arms forward and body erect, 5-6; rise to fundamental position, 7 -8 .........................................  3

In 8 steps countermarch left to starting position and

face front ........................................   8

As (a) and (b) repeated 3 times.	18

Boxing.

(a) Face left stride right backward bending both knees slightly, raise and hold the bent left arm forward, right arm bent over pit of stomach (“on guard”), 1-4; thrust right arm forward and bend left arm over pit of stomach turning right shoulder forward, and straightening right

leg, 5-8.............................................  8

Thrust left arm forward and bend right over pit of stomach, 1; reverse, 2; left forward and right bent,3;

reverse, 4; fundamental position, 5-8................ 8

As (a) and (b) to the opposite side with the bent right arm forward and left at pit of stomach to start, then assuming reverse positions	16

As (a), (b) and (c) .................................32

(b)

(e)

(d)

160 counts

PART III 40 measures

1.	As No. 1 of Part I.

2.	Pitching.

(a)	Raise right arm sideward, 1; immediately circle outward 2; meet left arm at side and continue circling with both arms to position over right shoulder, raising left knee forward (high), and turning head left, 3-4; lunge left sideward, swing right arm to obliquely foreupward position, left arm to obliquely back-downward position, bending trunk forward, 5-6, fundamental position, 7-8. .. 8

NOTE: There is no pause after count one or count two; the movement must be continued.

(b)	Batting.

Bend trunk slightly forward, hands as tho grasping baseball bat touching the ground, 1-2; swing arms over right shoulder, bend trunk right, turning head left, 3-4; lunge left sideward, turn trunk left, slightly lower forward, striking horizontally, 5-6; fundamental position, 7-8 ........................................  8

As (a) and (b) to the opposite side.................16

As (a), (b) and (c)

(c)

(d)

3. Crouch and Dash on lines of a square left.

8

(a)	As 3 (a) of Part I.

(b)	Four running steps forward, 14; four running steps in

place, facing left on first step, 5-8................ 8

(c)	As (a) and (b), repeated 3 times on the lines of a square

left ..............................................  48

PART IV. 40 measures	160 counts

1.	As No. 1 of Part 1.......................................32

2.	Running Jump.

(a) Three running steps forward (beginning left), 1-3; jump

Digitized by

Google
85

upward and forward, raising right leg forward and arms sideward, 4; alight with bent knees and arms sideward, 5; hold position, 6; arise to fundamental position, 7-8 .........................................  8:

(b)	Four marching steps in place, 1-4; four marching steps

in place, facing left on first step, 5-8............... 8

(c)	As (a) and (b) repeated three times on lines of a square

left ..............................................   48-

3.	Boxing with partners.

Outside files face inward, inside files face outward immediately, and repeat 3 (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Part II, excepting the last four counts of (d). On the first of the last four counts partners step left forward toward each other and grasp right hand, holding position during the four counts, releasing hands, closing left foot to right and facing front upon command................ 64

NICETTE MAZURKA.

Aesthetic Dance, Medium Grade, F. E. Foertsch, Pittsburgh, Pa. Music: Nicette Mazurka.

Composer: G. Backmann.

Publisher: Theo. Presser Co., Phila. Pa.

Arm Positions.

First—Arms forward (rounded).

Second—Arms sideward (palms forward).

.Fifth—Arms upward (rounded, hands in front and slightly above head).

Left Fourth-—Left arm 5th, right arm 1st.

Left Third—Left arm 5th, right arm 2nd.

Introduction.

a)	Step left sideward, arms 2nd -1, point right forward, arms left 4th - 2, pause - 3.............   1	M.

b)	Repeat a) to right and left................   2	M.

c)	Step right sideward, arms right 3rd -1, pause -

2 - 3 .................................       1	M.

Total _______________________________     4	M.

Part I.

a) Mazurka left sideward, right arm 5th with left

hand at waist__________________________________    1	M.

b)	Step left sideward, arms 2nd -1, point right for-

ward with raising right heel, arms left, 4th - 2, lower right heel - 3, (Mazurka balance step)....	1	M.

c)	Repeat a) -b) to the right......................   2	M.

d)	Three mazurkas left sideward, right arm 5th with

left hand at waist.............................    3	M.

e)	Mazurka balance step left sideward, arms 2nd to

left 4th...................................  .'.	1	M.

f)	Repeat a)-e) beginning right..... ..............   8	M.

Total

16 M.

Digitized by LjOOQle
86

Part II.

a)	Mazurka balance step left forward, arms 2nd to

left 4th 1-3, repeat right forward - 4- 6........ 2	M.

b)	Three steps forward, arms 2nd - 1 - 3 ........... 1	M.

c)	Balance step right forward, hands at waist 1 - 3. 1	M.

d)	Step left backward, arms 2nd - 1, point right back-

ward - inward with raising left heel, arms left lateral - 2, lower left heel - 3, repeat same right backward - 4 - 6 ................................ 2	M.

e)	Step cross-turn left backward, arms 2nd to 1st.	1	M.

f)	Balance step left oblique backward, hands at waist.. 1 M.

Total ............:......................... 8	M.

Interlude:

a)	Mazurka balance step right sideward, arms 2nd to

right 4th 1 - 3, repeat right sideward - 4 - 6.... 2	M.

b) Step cross-turn right sideward, arms 2nd to 1st.	1 M.

c)	Step right sideward, arms right 3rd -1 pause -

2-3.............................................   1	M.

Total ...................................... 4	M

Part III.

a)	As a) - c) of Part I..............................  4	M.

b)	Two mazurkas left sideward, right arm 5th with

left hand at waist................................. 2	M.

c)	Step cross-turn left sideward, arms 2nd to 1st..	1	M,

d)	Mazurka balance step left sideward, arms 2nd to

4th ............................................    1	M.

e)	Repeat a) - d) beginning right..................... 8	M.

Total ..................................... 16	M.

Part IV.

a)	Mazurka left oblique forward, right arm 5th, left

hand at waist..................................... 1	M.

b)	Mazurka balance step left oblique forward, arms

2nd to left 4th .................................. 1	M.

c)	Three steps (right, left and right) oblique left forward, arms 2nd .....................................   1	M.

d)	Balance step left oblique forward, hands at waist.	1	M.

e)	Change turn right oblique backward (two change steps each executed in three counts) arms 2nd with first change step, and arms 1st with second change

step ..........................................    2	M.

f)	Step right backward, arms 2nd - 1, point left back-

ward, inward with raising right heel, arms right lateral - 2, lower right heel - 3, then repeat left backward 4	6 ..............................    2	M.

g)	Repeat a) - f) beginning right oblique	forward....	8	M.

h)	Repeat a) - g) .................................  16	M.

Total ...................................   32	M.

Digitized by

Google
87

Interlude:

a)	Same as Introduction........Total................ 4 M.

Part V.

a)	As a) - c) of Part I............................. 4	M.

b)	Two mazurkas left sideward, right arm 5th with

left hand at waist............................... 2	M.

c)	Step cross-turn left sideward, arms 2nd to 1st...	1	M.

d)	Double glide balance hop left oblique foreward,

arms left 3rd.................................... 1	M.

e)	Repeat a)-c)..................................... 7	M.

f)	Double glide balance hop right oblique foreward, arms right 3rd on 1 - 2, and lowering arms to second with 3rd count holding the balance position as a

finish ............................................ I'M.

Total .................................... 16	M.

Sworn Statement Required

By the Postal Law.

STATEMENT OF THE OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF MIND AND BODY, published monthly at New Ulm, Minnesota, required by the Act of August 24, 1912.

EDITOR:—Wm. A. Stecher, 45 W. Johnson St. Philadelphia.

MANAGING EDITOR:—Wm. A. Stecher, 45 W. Johnson St., Philadelphia. BUSINESS MANAGERS:—A. Steinhauser and H. Payne, New Ulm, Minn. PUBLISHER:—MIND & BODY PUBLISHING CO.

OWNERS:—W. A. Stecher, 45 W. Johnson St., Philadelphia.

Albert Steinhausar, H. Payne, New Ulm, Minn.

Known bondholders, mortgages, and other security holders, holding \ per cent or more of total amount of bonds, mortgages, or other securities: None.

ALBERT STEINHAUSER.

Affirmed and subscribed to before me this 28th day of March, 1919.

L. B. KROOK,

Notary Public, Brown Co., Minn. (SEAL)	My	commission	expires	March	7th.,	1923

Digitized by v^.ooQle
O'

88

•O

NOTES AND COMMENTS

0	1	■■■'I	11 "■-o

Editor of Mind and Body,

In reading, in the January number of Mind and Body the article by Miss Elmore on “Mistaken Psychology in Children's Games,” I found there an expression of my own experience in teaching games to the public school children of Montreal.

I,	too, have noticed that, in most of the games mentioned as having undesirable rewards, children do not try to win, the reason, of course, being that the position of the unsuccessful player is more desirable than that of the winner.

1	would not say, however that this is due to the child’s wish

to be it-----the centre of attraction-but rather would blame

the nature of the game itself.

If a reward is worth attaining a child will undoubtedly strive to attain it, but if, as in the case of many ring games, where a child has stood inactive for some time, his brief season of activity (if he wins) is rewarded by his return to a position as a mere onlooker in the game, is it any wonder that he will try not to win, so that he may secure for himself a few more minutes of play?

To my mind, the whole trouble lies in the fact that there is too little action in this type of game and thus the reward is purely a negative one and to be regarded practically as a penalty. Naturally in any game, the position which gives the best opportunity for action is the one most coveted by the players.

Compare the games mentioned by Miss Elmore as ones having an undesirable reward and those mentioned as making children exert all their powers to win and you will see that for games that would be classified as active, the former might all be termed “slow,” while in the latter there is action for all.

A few of the latter variety that I have found most popular are: “Cat and Mice,” “Fox and Geese,” “Hound and Rabbit,” “Advancing Statues,” “Last Couple Out,” “Three Deep,” “Club Snatch,” “Comer Spry;” also “Circle Dodge Ball,” “Bombardment,” “Hand Foot Ball,” “End Ball,” “Newcomb,” and, of course, all the relay races.

If games played in the gymnasium and playground are to bring the element of joy into a child's life and give him the chance to play and run, care should be taken to select only those that serve this purpose. Margaret C. Brown Physical Director,

Fairmont School, Montreal.

BETTER HEALTH FOR GEORGIA CHILDREN.

The Georgia Normal and Industrial College at Milledgeville is doing some Pioneer work in Georgia through its Extension Department. Co-operating with the State Supervisors of Education, the extension workers are giving a week of Health Instruction to the rural schools of each county in the state. The school teachers are called together for a week at some centrally located

Google
89

school and attendance is made compulsory by the County School Supervisor in most cases. Teachers, children and the grown-ups of the community are taught new games and the value of Supervised Play and given simple talks on biologic living. The older boys of the school are helped to construct simple pieces of Playground Apparatus. Chinning Bars, See-saws, Jumping pits and "Balance Logs” have been constructed at little cost by the 14-15 year old boys of the school.

The teachers are urged to teach the child Biologic Living rather than Anatomical Facts. The following points are especially urged:

1.	Cleanliness:

Body (two hot baths a week, at least).

Faces (twice daily).

Hands (especially before eating).

Nails.

Hair and Comb and Brush.

Feet (frequent change of hose).

2.	Teeth:

Examined twice a year. Brush twice daily.

3.	Shoes:

Orthopedic.

4.	Posture:

Sitting and standing.

5.	Food:

Less protein.

More fruits and vegetables.

More bulky and raw foods.

Plenty of water.

6.	Daily habits of bodily elimination. (Without use of drugs).

7.	Exercise:

Play; two hours daily in open air.

8.	Ventilation and Heating;

School and Home.

9.	Cheerfulness:

While the work is new in Georgia, the Supervisors and Instructors are enthusiastic and with the co-operation of the teachers, excellent results are hoped for and expected.

From an Editorial in the London "Nation”; based on the Annual Report of Sir George Newman to the Board of Education, London, England.—Lastly, a most important conclusion has now been established by experience. It is this. The best material for an army is not produced by military drill. What is wanted in young men is the full development of their limbs and minds, giving carriage, tone, muscle and readiness. Military drill kills interest and spirit in boys; it becomes wearisome and monotonous. Routine drill is necessary in any army, but it puts the finishing and not the creative touches. It is not educational in itself, for in some sense it tends to cramp the mind; nor is it the best means of training eye or hand or muscle. If, therefore, we

Digitized by LjOOQle
90

want to produce men who will make good soldiers quickly, we cannot do better than give them a generous and well-considered system of physical training in adolescence, in which marching, drill and rifle drill would be a very sub-ordinate element. In the army, it must be remembered, gymnastic exercises are an important part of the military training. Hence, whether we are fearing war in the future or preparing for peace in the future, wisdom and prudence call for the same measures.

It was commonly said before the war, when this or that reform was proposed, that the taxpayer could not stand it, or industry could not stand it, or public opinion was not ready for it. The war has shown us how hollow many of these objections were, how timidly we had estimated our powers and resources, and it has brought home to us the sovereign importance of the quality of a nation’s life. We cannot repeat that mistake to-day. If we are determined to rear a healthy and virile race, of high capacity, we must, from a physical standpoint, begin earlier and continue later than the hitherto accepted period of education. What is needed, indeed, is an effective supervision and a sound practical training of the body from the end of infancy to adolescence. It is said sometimes that, in the interest of economy, the State cannot afford such a complete scheme. My submission is that, in the interest of economy, the State cannot afford to neglect a complete scheme.”

EASTERN DISTRICT AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION. BOSTON CONVENTION.

To the members of the Eastern District.

Your officers submit in the following, the result of the various meetings held in preparation for the convention to be held in Boston, May 8th, 9th, and 10th. More definite details and probable changes will be brought to your attention by special bulletin.

The Convention Committee after due deliberation decided to follow the plan operated in Detroit at the convention of the middle west district; that of charging a registration fee of one dollar. In consideration of the many students of Physical Education in and near Boston, the fee for them is to be fifty cents. No effort is being spared to make this convention both a profitable and enjoyable one.

In as much as there are as yet no district sections all sessions will be joint sessions. The committee strongly urges delegates to plan to be in Boston on Thursday, May 8th, in order to take advantage of the many professional and other interests. Boston has to offer. The several Normal Schools of Physical Education will have open house on that day. Guides will be held in readiness at Headquarters to conduct parties to the various places of interest, a separate program of which will be prepared. The opening reception on the evening of May 8th is aimed to be one of real pleasure, void of undue formality. In addition to social dancing, Miss Faulhaber will teach a number of community dances which she

Digitized by LaOOQle
91

has arranged to the various war songs. To make this function a success, the committee hopefully counts on your presence that evening. It would aid the committee greatly to receive from as many as possible, a line as to their intention of being present on that evening in order that the preparations may be ample.

All communications, excepting those concerning hotel accommodations which should be directed to the respective hotels, may be addressed to:

Carl L. Schrader, 8 Everett Street, Cambridge, Mass.

FIRST CONVENTION OF THE EASTERN DISTRICT

Boston, May 8th, 9th, 10th.

Headquarters, Copley Plaza Hotel.

Convention Committee and Officers of the Eastern Distirct Carl L. Schrader, Chairman Miss Marjorie Bouve	Miss	Millicent Hosmer

Mr. Joseph Lee	Mr.	Christian	Eberhard.

Thursday, May 8th, 8. P. M.

Ball Room, Headquarters.

Welcome, by the Mayor. Reception. Dancing.

Friday, May 9th, 9:30 A. M.

Ball Room, Headquarters.

Topic:	“Physical	Education	in	Industry”,	Chairman	to	be	announced.

1.	Address (title to be announced). . . Prof. Roy W. Kelley, Harvard.

2.	Address (title to be announced).... Miss Ernestine Friedmann, Industrial Expert, National War Work Council, Y. W. C. A.

Friday, May 9th, 12:30 P. M.

Swiss Room Headquarters.

Joint Luncheon

Short five minute addresses, (Speakers to be announced).

Friday, May 9th, 2:30 P. M.

Ball Room, Headquarters.

Topic:	“State	and	National	Physical	Education”,	Dr.	E.	M.	Hartwell,

Chairman, Boston.

1.	The Problem from a Federal View Point, Dr. W. S. Small, Chairman of the Federal Commission on Physical Education.

2.	Physical Education as a State Measure, Mr. Wright, Deputy Commissioner of Ed. of Mass.

3.	The Military Aspect of Physical Education, Some representative of the War Department.

4.	The Practical Solution of the Problem in New Jersey, Dr. F. W. Maioney, State Supervisor of Physical Education of New Jersey.

Friday, May 9th, 7:30 P. M.

Exhibition. Brookline Municipal Gymnasium.

Exhibition Committee, Teus Oreon, Chairman. Ernst Hermann, Nat. J. Young, J. Nason, Dr. A. E. Garland, Oliver L. Hebbert, Bessie L. Barnes, Fannie E. Bickley, Hugh McGrath.

7:45- 1. MILITARY DRILL—

Boston Public Schools. Brighton High School.

Digitized by
92

7:55- 2. CLASS ROOM EXERCISES AND GAMES, UNDER PUPIL LEADERSHIP.—Dir. by Mrs. Hamilton.

Somerville Public Schools. Morse School, Sixth Grade.

8:10- 3. DUMB BELL DRILL AND PLAY EXERCISES FOR HIGH SCHOOLS, Dir. by Mr. H. Nissen.

Seniors, Posse Normal School of Gymnastics.

8:20- 4. ELEMENTARY AND HIGH SCHOOL GYMNASTICS, Dir. by Miss Barnes, (Regular and Sp. Teachers assisting).

Brookline Public Schools.

8:35- 5. a. FOLK DANCING b. GAMES

Boston Public Schools, Normal Department Dir. by Miss Donovan. 8:45- 6. SWEDISH FREE STANDING GYMNASTICS, Dir. by Mr. Oreon.

Seniors, Boston School of Physical Education.

8:55- 7. GYMNASTIC DANCING, Dir. by Mr. Hebbert.

Men, Boston Y. M. C. U.

9:00- 8. MARCHING AND FREE STANDING GYMNASTICS, Dir. by

Dr. Skarstrom.

Juniors and Seniors, Department of Hygiene, Wellesley College. 9:20- 9. DANCING a.) ESTHETIC, Dir. by Miss Hall.

b.) INTERPRETIVE, Dir. by Miss Hall.

Seniors, Boston School of Physical Education.

9:25-10. a. MARCHING TACTICS (Seniors), Dir. by Mr. Schrader.

b.	MIMETIC EXERCISES (Freshmen), Dir. by Miss Lewis.

c.	CLUB SWINGING (Juniors), Dir. by Miss Murray.

Students, The Sargent School for Physical Education.

9:40-11. a. WAND DRILL, Dir. by Mrs. McCormick.

b. ESTHETIC DANCING, Dir. by Mrs. McCormick.

Women, Brookline Municipal Gymnasium.

9:50-12. SWEDISH FOLK DANCING, Dir. by Mr. Ohlin.

10:00-13. GENERAL APPARATUS WORK-MEN AND WOMEN, including: TUMBLING & HAND BALANCING. ROPE CLIMBING PYRAMIDS a.) On Ladders	FLYING RINGS

b.) Free	HIGH PARALLEL BARS

HIGH JUMPING	SWEDISH BOX Etc.

Boston Y.M.C.U.

Boston High Schools Brookline Public Schools Swedish Gymnastic Club Posse

The Sargent School for Physical Ed. Posse Normal School of Gymnastics. Boston School of Physical Education. Brookline Municipal Gymnasium.

Saturday, May 10th, 9:30 A. M.

Ball Room, Headquarters.

Topics:	a.	“Experiences from Overseas”.

b. “Pupil Leadership in School Gymnastics”, Dr. R. T. McKenzie, Phila., Chairman.

1.	Title to be announced, Dr. J. H. McCurdy, Springfield.

2.	Title to be announced, Prof. W. B. Cannon, Harvard.

3.	The Psycho-Physical and Social importance of Pupil.,

Leadership in Physical Education, Ernst Hermann, Cambridge.

4.	Report of Committee on Physical Welfare, Dr. E. H. Arnold, New Haven.

Digitized by LaOOQle
93

Saturday, May 10th, 2. P. M.

Headquarters (Room to be announced).

Business Meeting:

Adoption of some constitution.

Organization of sections in the district. .

Election of officers.

Place of next convention.

Hotel Accommodation Rates.

Single Room	Double	Room.

Copley Plaza Hotel- With bath—without bath	with bath—without bath.

(Headquarters)	$4.00		$6.00	
Hotel Westminster	2.50	$2.00	5.00	$3.00-$3.50
Hotel Lenox	3.00	2.00- 2.50	4.00	3.50
Copley Square Hotel	2.50	1.50- 2.00	3.50- 4.00	2.50- 3.00
All these Hotels	are within	sight of Headquarters.		

THE RISE AND FALL OF THE MUSLIN WINDOW SCREEN.

Something of a sensation was caused a few years ago when the use of cloth windows was seriously recommended as a solution of the ventilation problem. Such window screens were used in school buildings in a number of cities and, in many cases those using them were enthusiastic over the results obtained. Why they were never seriously considered by heating and ventilating engineers will be understood from the following indictment of the cloth window screen, written by Dr. E. Vernon Hill, chief of the Ventilation Divison of the Chicago Department of Health and published in Sirocco Service for January, 1919:

“This scheme is positively atrocious and has no redeeming features. To quote from the doctor who advocated them, ‘A cloth screen so constructed admits an abundance of fresh air; it does not obstruct the light and it keeps out dust, snow, rain and wind.’

“Practically every one of these statements is without foundation in fact. Such a screen does not admit an abundance of fresh air except when the wind is in the right direction and blowing at a velocity of something over ten miles per hour. In still weather the air change through these screens is almost negligible. There is a considerable heat loss, out of proportion to the air change, and the method is undesirable for this reason. Instead of not obstructing the light the screens obstruct the light materially. This is not so evident on a bright or sunny day but when the sky is cloudy the reduction in the amount of light in a class room is considerable.

“The worst part of the misstatement is that it keeps out the dust. It is true that the screens removes a certain portion of the air dust, namely the large particles. Unfortunately these large particles are the least harmful. They are heavy and sink in a short time to the floor. It is the fine particles that pass readily through the cloth that are harmful. Being light they do not readily settle out of the air but remain suspended for long periods of time. These

Digitized by Google
94	'

fine dust particles with their attendant bacteria are inhaled by the pupils and the long train of irritative and infectious lesions of the nose, throat and lungs is the result.

“It is rather interesting to note that the learned doctor states than ‘an abundance of air enters through these cloth screens but it keeps out the wind.’ An anomalous situation to say the least.

“It is evident not only from a careful theoretical examination of this scheme, but it is also evident from observations made of its practical application that it is entirely worthless and should be discouraged. The cloth screen proposition; the various types of patented window ventilators and other schemes proposed by cranks and faddists that have no warrant except the blind faith of their sponsors should find no place in our school rooms.”—Heating Magazine.

SECOND REPORT OF THE PROVOST MARSHAL GENERAL, DECEMBER 29, 1918.

A study by W. A. Stecher of eight eastern states relative to the per cent of men placed in Group A as physically qualified, the per cent placed in Group B as remediable cases and placed in development battalions, the per cent rejected at the camps after arriving there, the per cent that finally were accepted in the camps, and last, the per cent that were grouped as good for limited service or as physically unfit.

Placed in Placed in Rejected Accepted Limited

	Group A	Remedi-	at Camp	in Groups	Service
		able		A and B	and unfit
		Group B			Groups
					C and D
United States	70.41	2.76	8.10	65.07	34.93
Rhode Island	53.68	3.73	7.41	57.41	50. CO
Massachusetts	57.42	3.46	8.23	52.65	47.35
New York	60.95	4.00	8.90	56.05	43.95
Delaware	65.67	.36	8.96	57.07	42.93
Connecticut	58.82	4.40	5.11	57.71	42.29
New Jersey	66.50	2.62	7.75	61.37	38.63
Pennsylvania	69.30	4.39	9.68	64.01	35.99
Maryland	68.35	2.45	4.94	65.86	34.14

BOOK REVIEW.

“Floor Games” by H. G. Wells, Published by Small, Maynard

and Co., Boston, Mass. 94 pages, 7 by 8 5-8 inches; well illustrated, $1.25.

Mr. Wells has done for childhood a great service, by putting into printed form a contribution which should cause innumerable parents and “uncles” to recall their own childhood days to find the essential factors in their early environment that gave them most pleasure and helped to quicken their creative and constructive instincts as a means toward helping the children of to-day.

Digitized by
95

It is to be hoped that the “nursery” or “childrens’ room” will never be left out of the plan of the “modem” house or apartment where children can revel to their hearts delight in “Floor Games.”

Very little children should not be overwhelmed with too much material, they need the “big” blocks for play which Mr. Wells found could not be bought, the shape and number of parts should be increased as the needs and growth of the child may demand; this Mr. Wells has very aptly provided for, in addition to which he adds animals, toy people, plasticene, and other materials which the child’s own growth and ingenuity will create if he has the sympathetic help and guidance of an older person rich in imaginative and constructive ideas to help to supply his needs. One can readily see with such opportunities a child is unconsciously getting a practical knowledge of civics, history and geography.

A copy of “Floor Games” should be in every home, and should be known by every Kindergartner, teachers of Experimental and Gary Schools, also Playground teachers, especially those teachers who are in charge of young children in Municipal Recreation Buildings.

“Practical Self-Defense” by William J. Jacomb. 99 pages 5 1-2 by 8 inches. 90 illustrations. Published by Lea and Febiger, Philadelphia and New York. Price $1.25.

In this book Mr. Jacomb has given teachers a companion volume to “Boxing for Beginners.” In the introduction the author says that the course offered is one of self-defense, nothing more. There is not an attack in the course, nor is it a plaything, and what is more, it is dangerous when used as such. The object of the course is to teach how anyone can most effectively defend himself in an attack by a bully, an ordinary tough or a quarrelsome drunk. As the movements are illustrated by large engravings this little course should be of great help to anyone seeking for simple means for self-defense.

“Health and the Woman Movement” by Clelia D. Mosher, M. D. Second revised edition. 45 pages, 5 by 7 1-2 inches. Published by The Womans Press, 600 Lexington Ave., New York City, Price 60 cents.

In her foreword Dr. Mosher who is medical advisor of women at the Leland Stanford Junior University says:	“the	time	has

passed when a woman may rest on her traditional periodic incapacity and be an invalid one week out of four. The present stirring times demand women at maximum capacity for work every day in the month—fit for any work at any time.” Then the author goes to prove that this is possible, and that menstruation need not be a handicap for women. If every teacher could read this little booklet and could be induced to advise girls and women to follow the simple rules advocated the effect of such action upon the health of women would be immeasurable.

Digitized by Google
Fred Med art Mfg. Co.

Potomac and DeKalb Streets	St.	LOUIS,	MO.

MANUFACTURERS OF

GYMNASIUM APPARATUS PLAYGROUND APPARATUS

STEEL LOCKERS

Catalogs descriptive of any of these productions will be sent on request. Merely mention in which line you are interested.

Our book 4 ‘The Planning of a Gymnasium * ’ contains a mass of data on gymnasium construction and equipment. It also will be sent on request.

j

THE CHICA60 NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDOCATION

FRANCIS MUSSELMAN, Principal ESTABLISHED 1903 SUMMER SESSION—June 30 to August 9, 1919

Six weeks practical and theoretical training in physical education. Beginning and advanced courses. Summer work credited toward diploma. Special wojk in dancing and Military Tactics Our fine big dormitory remains open for summer term.

TWO YEAR NORMAL COURSE—Registration Sept, and Feb.

Theoretical and practical training in all branches of physical education, preparing women for teachers of physical education in public schools, colleges and normal schools, Young Women's Christian Associations, and Playgrounds. Strong faculty of well known teachers. Exception-ally desirable dormitory facilities.

SUMMER CAMP IN MICHIGAN—June 15 to July 15, 1919.

For Catalogs Address the REGISTRAR, 430 South Wabash Arairae, CN1CA60.

Physical Training Teachers and Supervisors

W e Can Place You In Better Positions

The Rocky Mountain Teachers Agency

I	PACIFIC	OFFICE:

j 326 Empire Building	1312	Northwestern Bank Bldg.

Denver, Colo.	Portland, Oregon

j WM. RUFFER, A. M., Manager FRANK K. WELLES, Mgr,