LIBRARY

MIND AfWlJfdDY

Vol. 27	FEBRUARY	1921	No#	295

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn,

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D.	M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

CORRECTIVE PHYSICAL ACTIVITIES.*

BY DR. LENA HOERN1C,, KANSAS CITY, MO.

At the present time nearly all civilized countries consider the physical welfare of the school child of the utmost importance. During the last few decades a widespread realization of the responsibility of the school in the furthering of the health of the child, and in the prevention of disease has manifested itself. Investigations have revealed the startling fact that 50% to 75% of school children suffer from physical defects. To leave the health guidance of the child entirely to the home has proven inadequate in most cases. Society as a whole is responsible for the health of the child, and for its normal development.

The most logical school organization about which this new educational work ought to grow, is the department of physical education. Here lies the germ that has long been dormant. It needed light, warmth and guidance from the outside. The school teachers have been struggling for a century, or more, to give more adequate attention to the physical welfare of the child. The ideas of Pestalozzi, Froebel, and Gutsmuths have permeated the public school since these great leaders dedicated their lives to the cause. It has been due to the apathy of the public in genera] that school health work has been of such slow progress. The *

* Read at the Physical Training Section, State Educational Association of Missouri, meeting at Kansas City. Mo., November 1920.

Digitized by VjOOQle
402

public is ever ready to spend millions for everything except the schools. Even now that the need of health work in the schools is generally recognized, adequate support is slow in coming.

The school must be on the look-out for the causes that in such numerous instances are responsible for the inadequate growth and development of the child. Proper means should be found to correct existing defects, and to remove conditions that cause them. Broadly speaking the defects to be reached are the following:

1.	Transmissable diseases.

2.	Defective eyesight.

3.	Defective hearing.

4.	Defective teeth.

5.	Defects of nose and throat.

6.	Heart lesions.

7.	Malnutrition.

8.	Pre-tubercular conditions.

9.	Bad posture.

10.	Orthopedic deformities.

11.	Speech impediments.

12.	Mental and moral subnormalities.

13.	Errors in school sanitation.

14.	Errors in home sanitation.

15.	Neglect of personal ljvgiene.

16.	Neglect in mental hygiene.

Correeti oe Gym nasties.

The scope of this paper will concern itself with the application of physical activities to pathologic conditions. The term most commonly used is “corrective gymnastics.” In a general sense it includes all those bodily activities that exert a wholesome influence upon the growth and development of the child. Much has been accomplished since the general introduction of school gymnastics, games, athletics, folk dancing, and swimming. They have made thousands of children healthier and happier. The methods of administration and control, and the conditions under which the activities are carried on, however, are still far from ideal. But with the advent of better health work in the schools, with the coming of health inspection, and the introduction of physical examination, the possibility for individual corrective measures does not lie so far removed.

This phase of health work should be carried out by physical training teachers and nurses under adequate supervision. It is better to relieve the class room teacher of the individual corrective gymnastics except so far as her sympathetic co-operation is concerned. The class room teacher has already so great a variety of duties that we ought not to burden her further with work that a specialist should take over.

Physical Examination.

Before proceeding with individual corrective exercises it is necessary to give the child a physical examination. In order to discover and diagnose defects of posture, and lateral curvature of the spine, the child’s clothing should be removed above the waist. The shoes should also be removed. The child should stand with his back toward a good light, feet parallel, and two to four inches apart. He is told to stand still for
a few moments, weight equally distributed on both feet. “Stand just as you always do,” is the admonition. The examiner then notices:

1.	Droop of head.

2.	Position of shoulder blades.

3.	Shoulders of unequal height.

4.	Round back or exaggerated dorsal curve (Kyphosis.)

5.	Hollow back or exaggerated lumbar curve. (Lordosis.)

6.	Lateral curvature of the spine.

Simple or “C” curve.

Compound or “S” curve.

7.	Height of hips.

8.	Flat chest.

9.	Prominent abdomen.

10.	Flat foot.

(a)	Arch

(b)	Deflection of tendon of Achilles

(c)	Gait

The examiner should also study the child from the side and from in front. He should notice his manner of walking. In the course of this examination other defects may be observed, as those connected with the hair, the skin, mouth-breathing, and the teeth. Whenever it is necessary re-examination by a specialist should be made. With skilled nurses and physical training teachers, the inspection by physicians can be reduced to a minimum. We need more of the former workers for inspection, we need more physicians and dentists to work in the clinics.

Bad posture, tendencies to lateral curvature, marked spinal deformities, flat foot, and tendencies to flat foot are of frequent occurrence, far more so than the casual observer will discover. While major after-effects of infantile paralysis are readily recognized, the minor after-effects are often overlooked. In a survey made in twenty-three Kansas City elementary schools in the fall of 1919 the following conditions were found: The children belonged to Kindergarten, first and second grades.

Total number examined......................................5648

Right shoulder low ...................../.................. 836

Left shoulder low ......................................... 842

Lateral curvatures ....................................... 1023

Bad posture ...............................................1260

Flat foot and tendencies ................................... 958

Mouth-breathers ............................................ 357

This survey shows the great tendency to postural deformities in children between the ages of five and seven years. The correction should begin in the younger years, by all means.

Causes of Postural Defects.

We naturally ask ourselves the reason for this frequency of postural weaknesses. We must consider that ever since man emerged from early palaeolithic times he has been struggling to maintain the upright posture. The struggle of the race is illustrated in every young child, and is not complete until he reaches adult life in splendid health and muscular control. The force of gravity and many daily occupations cause the flexor muscles to grow stronger than the extensors. Here artificial exer-

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
404

cise must step in to aid in the struggle for upright posture. The teachers of physical training have worked fatihfully in the past, and are continuing to do so. They have succeeded in inculcating habits of good posture, but their success is far from complete. We have been prone to ignore some of the biologic factors concerned. Muscles will not function normally if malnutrition interferes with their development and strength. If the individual has an unstable nervous system, or if the higher brain functions are at fault, the maintaining of the upright posture meets with many difficulties. It is our duty to find ways and means for improving posture. Adequate health work in the schools will do it. In the first place school seats and desks should be properly adjusted to the individual; no wrong lighting of the school room should be allowed. The young child does not maintain a body position well for any length of time; he needs frequent change. The school program should take account of this. # Thus recesses, play periods, and gymnastics in general become corrective exercises.

Correction of Postural Defects.

The six year old child is almost as easily molded into proper posture as it develops a defect. A mild exercise is sufficient. Even the youngest school child can understand good posture. ‘'Chest up, hips back, weight over the balls of the feet,” will find interested listeners. Perhaps simpler language, as ‘‘Stand tall! Sit tall! Stand like a soldier! Stand lightly on the heels!” will have the desired effect. Miss Bancroft’s triple test of good posture in standing, walking and during exercise has splendid value. I like emphasis placed during sitting on, Chest up! Hips back! The backward curve in the lumbar region that so readily develops in a bad sitting position should be carefully guarded against. The child cannot prevent this slump in too long continued sitting.

Exercises for Posture and Flat Chest.

In standing.

1.	Deep breathing combined with an effort at chest lifting. Add arm raising forward upward during inhalation, sideward downward during exhalation.

2.	Deep breathing with outward arm rotation.

3.	Upper trunk backward bending. Make an effort to push chin in, anterior muscles of neck relaxed.

In walking.

4.	Walking on one line or board. Conscious effort at good posture.

Combine with chest lifting arm positions, as:	Arms	forward	bend;	arms

upward bend.

5.	As Exercise 4 with a light object balanced on the head.

6.	As Exercise 4 on the balance beams.

In sitting.

7.	Stride sitting trunk lowering forward. Keep back hollow and chin in. Combine with arm positions as:

Hands over shoulders.

Hands back of neck.

Arms upward bend.

Arms forward bend.

Arms rotated outward.

Digitized by Google
405

In lying.

8.	Face lying head raising. Chin in, arms rotated outward.

In hanging.

9.	Hand hanging, combined with lfeg and knee raising.

On low horizontal bar.

10.	Rear hang stand.

In standing.

11.	The corner exercise. Face the angle of 90° between two walls. Feet parallel and several inches apart. Place hands on the walls, about height of elbows, fingers inward, and equidistant from the angle. Keep chest up, chin in, heels on the floor. Lean forward from the ankles. Maintain the position until the desired effect of stretching the chest muscles and contracting back muscles is reached. This is a strong exercise suitable for older children and adults.

Exercises for Protuding Abdomen.

12.	Backlying leg raising, arms in stretch grasp position, or hands back of neck.

Exercise 9.

All posture exercises.

Abdominal massage.

Exercises for Forward Head.

All posture exercises, especially numbers 3 and 8.

Exercises for Forward Shoulders.

All posture exercises, especially 2, 7 and 11.

Exercises for Kyphosis.

All posture exercises, especially n.

13. Backlying arms extended upward in line of body. Place a cushion or pad under the maximum convexity.

The kyphosis is usually in the dorsal region, but sometimes this treatment is necessary in the lumbar region.

Exercises for Lordosis.

In a hollow back the abdominal muscles are weak. The trouble is rarely found alone, but is found in combination with kyphosis and protruding abdomen.

Use exercises 9 and 12.

14.	Back lying. Rise to sitting position; reach forward until hands touch toes.

Abdominal massage.

Lateral Curvatures and Tendencies. Scoliosis.

This is a lateral deviation of the spine. One of the early causes or symptoms is the habitual carrying of one shoulder lower than the other. The causes of scoliosis are numerous. Among them are, stronger muscle groups on one side of the body, carrying of loads more frequently on one side, astigmatism, a short leg, flat foot, prologed one-sided work or play, injuries, as weak muscles resulting from a broken clavicle.

Not in every case does a low shoulder cause the development of a lateral curve. A strong muscular build will b/mg the deviation to a stand

Digitized by CjOOQle
406

still, and in adult life the tailor can come to the rescue and pad the shoulder of the coat. In cases however, when the child is under-nourished or has been subjected to the transmissable children’s diseases, there is grave danger that a scoliosis will develop detrimental to the health of N the child.

The school and the home should work together to remove the cause. In the younger children the above mentioned posture exercises will be sufficient to correct a low shoulder or even a simple curve. The child should be taught to know when his shoulders are even in height. The most important piece of apparatus in corrective gymnastics is a full length mirror. We have been too prone to condemn the adolescent girl for spending time in front of a mirror. If she as well as the younger children were taught to look for faults of posture, and correct them in front of a mirror much good could be accomplished.

Usually bi-lateral exercises afford correction in the younger children. In the older ones, and in younger ones who do not respond readily to the milder exercises, unilateral exercises must be given.

Exercises for Low Shoulder.

15.	Raise the low shoulder more than necessary to correct.

16.	Arm stretching upward on the side of the low shoulder.

If a lateral simple curve has developed the low shoulder is on the side of the concavity of the curve.

Exercises for C Curve.

17.	Stride sitting trunk bending sideward right. Right hand on hip, left hand back of neck. Counterlike if the curve is a left curve. This exercise may be taken in stride standing position, but the effort is more localized in sitting.

18.	As exercise 17 with resistance by operator.

19.	Face lying trunk bending sideward, arms as in exercise 17.

Compound or “S” Curve.

The simple curve that is left uncorrected soon develops one or more compensatory curves. If the primary curve is in the dorsal region the compensatory curves may develop in the cervical and in the lumbar region. In the correction of a compound curve each individual case must be carefully considered. Face lying, and side leg lying exercises combined with trunk bendings and arm positions arc effective. Spring sitting and hanging exercises should have an important place in each prescription of exercise.

If a double curve goes uncorrected the bodies of the vertebrae rotate, and the ribs will protrude more on one side of the trunk than on the other. At this stage a correction is not easily made. The extreme types of scoliosis, and those cases in which tuberculosis of the bone exists do not yield to treatment by exercise. An attempt should be made to keep the deformity at a standstill and to build up the general health as much as possible.

Flat Foot*

Flat foot is a condition in which the foot has rolled inward and obliterated the longitudinal arch. The condition is most frequently cawed by weak muscles and improper shoes. High heels are much to

Digitized by (^.ooQie
407

blame. The normal condition of a young child’s foot should not be mistaken for flat foot. The arch of a child's foot does not usually develop until the seventh or eighth year. Flat-footed children have a heavy shuffling gait, the toes turn outward instead of straight ahead, and the tendon of Achilles is deflected inward.

Exercises for Flat Foot.

20.	Walking, turning the toes straight forward.

21.	Walking on the outer edge of the foot.

22.	* Walking on heels, toeing inward.

23.	Walking on toes, toeing inward.

24.	Foot circumduction with the force of the movement on the inward part of the turn.

Corrective Play.

Corrective exercises must frequently be continued over a long period of time. In order to keep up the interest with children play elements should be introduced as freely as possible. All exercises can be varied to a certain extent to add new interest without changing the effect. Wands, dumbbells and most of the available heavy apparatus found in the gymnasium can be used to advantage in planning the program of the individual. Running games have an effect upon body vitality. They naturally produce deep breathing. Games in which a large ball is thrown from overhead have a good chest lifting effect.

There is no exercise that has a better effect upon flat chested, round shouldered children than swimming. The breast stroke, swimming on the back and floating necessitate splendid chest lifting, and should be used as elementary strokes for children. The dog paddle is useful for giving young children under nine or ten years confidence, but it should soon be superceded by the other strokes. The crawl stroke is less valuable as a corrective measure for children. The side stroke can be used to advantage sometimes in removing a lateral curvature, but the effect should be carefully watched. Diving in good form adds much to poise and body posture.

Handicapped Children.

Corrective play elements should be introduced abundandy into the physical program of all handicapped children such as cripples, the deaf,, the blind, children with speech defects, the pre-tubercular, mentally backward children and moral defectives. Handicapped children usually do not have a normal play life, and they are prone to have postural defects.

The tendency is to segregate these handicapped children so that their education can be more effectively and economically carried on. Sometimes this segregation is not advisable. However, the larger cities are gradually introducing special schools or centers. The problem of transportation is one that the schools must solve. Whenever a handicapped child must remain with a group of normal children, special attention should be given to his corrective play exercises.

The largest number of crippled children that we have to deal with are those that are suffering from , the after-effects of infantile paralysis. The school ought to be a help to these children. Far too often the

Digitized by ooQle
408

parents have become resigned to existing conditions and nothing furthet* is done for the child. He may need a surgical operation, he may be in need of a brace to support a week knee or a distorted foot. A brace would inprove the child’s gait very much. Frequently a short leg is the cause of a rapidly developing scoliosis. A lift can be so placed in the shoe as to equalize the length of the legs. Many of the infantile paralysis cases have one or both feet deformed. Nearly all of them can be helped by operative measures. After the surgeon has done his work the school should do its part. A constructive program of physical exercises lasting through ail of the child’s school years should be carried on. The unused muscles should learn to be useful, and through play activities as much as possible. Weak back muscles, weak abdominal muscles, shriveled arms and legs and flat foot are common. Each case is a problem to itself. Attempts at walking and proper stair climbing should be made. Let the youngster play foot ball. The rule of his game is to roll the ball with the weak leg. It is not difficult to find a normal child who is willing to be a play partner. No high school boy was ever more interested in a big ball game than a crippled child is with his football game.

Crippled children can get much amusement out of a punching bag. It should be punched with the weak arm or the weak leg. For the latter exercise the ball is lowered to within a short distance from the floor. The child lies on his back and punches the bag with his legs—one or both as the need may be. When a number of crippled children are grouped together an instructor, especially trained to work with these children can be placed in charge. Massage, passive, resistive and active exercise can then be used.

Schools for Crippled Children.

Chicago has two well planned schools for crippled children. Each has an enrollment of about two hundred. The buildings are especially constructed to suit these children. Boston has a well planned school— the institution on St. Botolph street. All three of these schools transport the children to and from their homes each day. New York City and many other cities have special groups in conveniently located public schools. Kansas City has two rather unique institutions, homes for crippled children. The Linwood boulevard Presbyterian Church supports the home for girls, and the Masonic order the home for boys. The children are orphans or otherwise needy children. The school board employs the school teacher, and the special teacher for corrective work. Other crippled children are scattered throughout the city schools. Where it is possible, we arrange special corrective programs for them. Kansas City is fortunate in having several orthopedic surgeons who gladly give their services to needy cases. The Mercy Hospital for children has a public school teacher in charge of the post-operative cases. During the recuperative period they receive some academic training and considerable corrective play activity.

Crippled children are prone to become morbid, or spoiled. Their corrective physical activities, and their play should be as abundant as possible in order to develop them into useful members of society.

Speech Defects.

Children with speech defects are apt to be lacking in muscular con-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
409

trol of the larger muscle groups. They are also inclined toward drifting away from normal play life. Since the speech defect is primarily the result of a nervous diathesis, everything that builds up the general health, all corrective physical activities should be used to the fullest extent in order to effect a cure.

Deaf-Mutes.

Deaf-mutes and partially deaf children present special problems physically. Mortality is high among deaf-mutes, because lack of speech power decreases vitality. Their powers of co-ordination are deficient. Deafness and lack of equilibrium are closely associated. Poor posture and a shuffling gait is common among them.

The Blind.

The horizon of the blind is limited, and they must be guarded against enforced idleness and sedentary habits. They hear or feel movements readily, and with proper safe-guards they can learn running games, roller-skating, dancing, swimming, broadjump and other athletic activities. They should be given sufficient drill in posture.

The Pre-tubercular.

Open air rooms have proven to be excellent adjuncts in the care of pre-tubercular children. The training offered by corrective gymnastics is especially important for them. The large majority of children of the pre-tubercular type have postural and spinal defects. A startling statistical fact shows that 78 per cent of school children have latent tuberculosis. That indicates without doubt that the methods of the open-air room ought to be extended.

The Mentally Defective.

Bad posture and clumsy movements are common among mentally deficient children. Training the muscles of co-ordination stimulates the brain centers. Play activities should be freely used in orthogenic classes, but the mental age of the child should be considered in arranging a gymnastic or play program. We cannot expect a fourteen-year-old boy with a mental age of eight years to be interested in competitive team games.

Incorrigible s.

Incorrigibles should be given intensive physical training. The exercises should be complete and interesting, not merely hard work. At the Elmira, New York State Reformatory forty-three mentally sluggish in-corrigibles were given an intensive program of physical exercises of two hours a day from June to November. The average gain in body weight was 1.23 pounds. The intelligence increased remarkably. Before this period the school grades averaged 45.2 per cent. At the end of the time the school grades rose to an average of 74.1 per cent.

The Outlook. i

The general introduction of individual corrective gymnastics into the elementary school will meet the same difficulties that any new phase •f health education is encountering. Trained helpers can as yet not be obtained in sufficiently large numbers, and adequate financial aid is not yet available. In the past corrective exercises have been given fair

Digitized by Google
410

attention in the colleges. In the high schools there has been a spasmodic attempt now and then to introduce the work. Usually the instructors are so thoroughly occupied with the great mass of students that there is little time left for individual work. The elementary schools are making just an experimental beginning.

The Horace Mann school of New York has a well planned program of corrective work. This school, however, is not handicapped as the public schools are. It can avail itself of all the resources and all the wealth of Teachers* College, Columbia University. The enrollment is > only about one thousand students, which is small for a New York school.

Detroit has allowed corrective gymnastics to creep in through the basement window during the last two or three years. Only a small fraction of the children, however, are as yet reached.

Kansas City has made a somewhat better start than Detroit. During the past year the work was introduced in twenty-three schools. A thorough survey was made of the kindergarten, the first, and the second grades. The children that showed deviations from the normal were placed in'small groups ranging between three and fifteen according to the type of defect. They were given one or two half-hour lessons a week. A strenuous effort was made to get home co-operation. The response was excellent in some of the school districts. Under the mother's supervision certain exercises were practised at home each day. In several of the schools massage was given to special cases. The equipment still is meagre in many of the schools. We are planning to extend the department gradually. At present we are introducing the work into ten additional schools, and are making a thorough survey of one additional grade. We shall continue to plaCt children from the upper grades who have marked deficiencies into the corrective gymnastic groups without taking time for a thorough examination of all the children above the third grade. Many requests are coming from parents of older children for a special examination, and that is, of course, granted.

Conclusion.

The gymnasiums connected with orthopedic hospitals have in the past done the most concentrated work in corrective gymnastics. It is from these institutions that we must get our guidance. The administrative problems, however, must be worked out by the schools themselves.

Bibliography.

Exercise in Education and Medicine—R. Tail McKenzie.

The Posture of School Children—Jessie H. Bancroft.

Care and Education of Crippled Children—Edith Reeves.

Education Through Play—Curtis.

The Special Class for Backward Children—fVitmer.

Swedish Medical Gymnastics—Hartelius.

School Hygiene—R. A. Lyster.

Safe-guarding the Special Senses—Reik.	♦

Health Work in the Schools—Hoag and Termetn

The Hygiene of the School Child—Terman.

• >:i; . ' •« »

Digitized by v^ooQle
411

THIRD ANNUAL CONVENTION WESTERN DISTRICT A. P. E. A.

The Third Annual Convention of the Western District of the American Physical Education Association was held in Berkeley and Oakland July 14—17, 19120. The three day session opened with a reception and dance on the evening of the 14th at Hearst Hall, University of California, Berkeley.

The regular session opened at 9 a. m. at Wheeler Auditorium, University of California, J. B. Nash, Supt. of Recreation and Director of Physical Education, Oakland, President Western District, A. P. E. A., presiding.

Addresses of welcome were given by Dean Walter Morris Hart, of the Summer Session and Prof. Frank L. Kleeberger of the physical education department at the University.

Dr. William Burdick, representing the American Physical Education Association, responded with words of congratulation on the progress of physical education in the West.

The speakers of the morning session were Prof. C. E. Rugh of the University, and Mrs. Daisy Alford Hetherington, director of the play school at the Summer Session.

Prof. Hugh spoke on “How We May Work Together for the Advancement of Physical Education.*’

Mrs. Hetherington said in part:

“I feel very envious of physical educators. You have come into existence as a body of educators very recently and do not have to struggle with many things that we people do who work in the traditional.

“Physical Education has made great strides for the last ten or twelve years, when a little body in Washington organized as the Playground Association of America, since which time the Physical Education program has come into existence. Our curriculum was organized in our school system to meet the needs of adults. Now we have realized, of course, that somehow a program worked out from that standpoint has not worked out very well, so we have put in new activities in order to get the curriculum away from the old ideal of just meeting the needs of the adults and getting it to meet the needs of the child. I said you came into existence with the consciousness that the child’s needs were not met and you have the opportunity of getting right down and playing with the child, and so from that standpoint I envy you.

“In the play school we have tried, to work out a school organization that really meets the complete needs of the child. It is not an easy % thing to do, but we have at least made a beginning. We know that children enter into certain types of activities without any coercion; in other words, spontaneous. Now, they enter into those activities without any coercion on our part and we have found by analysis that they fall into certain distinct• types and we have a basis for a curriculum.

It is a big jump from the curriculum of the adult needs t9 that of child, needs for growth and development.

“Now, of course, if that classification is to be correct, it must contain all that we want to give the growing child. If that is really true, we have a natural beginning of these activities. We are born and bred.

Digitized by
412

and drilled in subjects of study and we cannot get away from them. Now, we have organized these activities in the play school. We have experts from all over the United States attempting to lead activities for the child’s needs along all lines. Ic is not perfect, but we are making a beginning. If we knew all about children we could meet all the needs of children. We would do away with the coercion which absorbs about 75 per cent of the teacher’s energy in the school. If we knew exactly what the children needed we could practically eliminate this coercion.

‘'You ask me how about the social discipline. Unfortunately we are not born little angels. We have fully as much selfishness as unselfishness. The child will get this while he is working out his activities. We think this program works out a scheme for moral discipline, also for the complete physical development, the thing the school has neglected unquestionably, and which you are struggling with. Work with the child in his own activities and we will get maximum of effort with minimum of coercion.”

At the conclusion of Mrs. Hetherington’s address, the delegates visited the Play School, where demonstrations were made in Development of Rhythm through Physical Education and Music:	Teaching

Arithmetic through Play; and Decathlon Organization.

Other summer session features were visited, and at 12:30 P. M. the delegates had luncheon at “Berkeley Inn.” At the luncheon short talks were given by some of the delegates on the “Decathlon Organization.”

The afternoon session opened at 2:00 p. m. at Auditorium, Wheeler Hall, Mr. Nash presiding.

The principal speaker of the afternoon was A. D. Browne, M. D., Associate Professor, Physical Education, Stanford University. The subject of his address was:	“Competition in Physical Education, When -

Where - How Much?”

He said in part:

“We are more concerned with the problems of the High School than we are with the problems of the College man. Any group of men with any common interest will naturally organize and when they organize they always seek representation. Take thirty boys and lock them up in a room and you have organized something. Throw a baseball into the room and you have made up a Base-ball team, but some of them become spectators. That is the problem we have at College. At the present time in many institutions in the country competitive or intercollegiate system has been in control. You might as well face this problem honestly, and try to analyze the situation. Inter-collegiate athletics or competitive athletics is primarily for providing entertainment for the public; next, it gives the boys an opportunity to express their loyalty to their particular institution, which is very good and is called college spirit. Therefore, we may become promoters or exploiters for the entertainment of the crowd. We are commercializing athletics and we have to do it. It is because every group of men desires a crowd to go out and compete against a lively institution. Let us recognize this but let us regulate intercollegiate athletics so it will have a moral tone and contribute to the moral uplift as well as to the betterment of the reputation of the insti-

Digitized by

Google
413

tution. Do not believe everything you hear about intercollegiate athletics.

“It allows to put on a big spectacle which has a wonderful influence over the student body. It also has some effect on the boys in the sur-roupding neighborhood. We call that Extra-mural (outside of the walls of the institution). We also have Intra-mural (inside the walls). The right system is to have a good foundation. The result is a gradual weeding out until you have a representing team, that team representing not only the institution but representing the work that is being done within the institution in Athletics. The stronger the Intra-mural foundation, the stronger your Intercollegiate or Extra-mural team is going to be. Our work has been developed more or less by men who have an instructor’s vision. There has got to be a change. I am glad to say the coaches are beginning to see this and are beginning to appeal to the student body to be represented in the Intramural program, and have better men to pick from. The coach who is now fighting an Intramural program will gradually be put on the shelf. He has no place in any institution in any field of work of Physical Education character. We are exposed to this criticism in the introduction of the word “Intramural**; because of prejudices of the Student body in the fear that the Intramural program will encroach upon Intercollegiate, or, rather, substitute it.

“I find High Schools constantly aping the work done in the Colleges. It is something to be regretted that they feel it necessary to put on a Track Meet the same as a College Track Meet, or to put on a 16 lb. shot just because the Colleges are doing it. This cannot be done for several reasons,—first, because the rules that are being put out for the major sports such as Foot Ball have been developed by coaches whose object it was to put on a spectacle for the entertainment of the crowd. In other words, it becomes a coach’s game. Those rules which are developed by experts in the development of the game for men are now used in Grammar School as rules for boys. We have the same thing in Basket Ball. We have the io-foot height for men, and when the children play, they have the same thing. We must adapt the work to the needs of the individual.

“We have another problem in this part of the country, regarding Rugby. We must get together on it and take it out of the hands of the newspaper correspondents and the commercial interests. It must be put into the hands of the Physical Directors and coaches and not into the hands of the newspaper correspondents. The whole thing is tied up with competitive athletics. We are here to advise if anybody wants advice but we cannot go out and say what they shall do and what they shall not. I might say in regard to Rugby there is no reason why both games should not be put on. There is no clash between Basket Ball and Base Ball in the spring. There is no reason why we cannot have Foot Ball and Soccer in the fall. If not as an Extramural sport, we will have it as an Intramural.

“Stanford does not want to take a position of advising High Schools not to play Foot Ball. As soon as we do that we are dictating to High Schools in regard to competitive games. If it makes a better athlete

Digitized by tjOOQle
414

•ut of the boy, he is going to be a better foot ball player when he goes to college. So much for the discussion from the college standpoint.’*

Helen Masters Bunting, Director of Physical Education for Women, Stanford University, was the next speaker, discussing “Competition from the Standpoint of College Women.” Miss Bunting emphasized the value of systematic exercise to college girls, and talked in favor of Intranftiral athletics.

“Competition in Physical Education from the Standpoint of High School Girls” was next discussed by Mabel S. Cummings, of the Department of Hygiene and Physical Education, University of Oregon. Miss Cummings urged moderation in competitive spirit.

The next speaker was Dr. H. R. Stolz, Assistant State Supervisor of Physical Education, California, who discussed the subject from the standpoint of High School Boys.

He was followed by Miss Clara Colstock of Pasadena, who discussed “Competition from the Standpoint of the Elementary School Girl.”

Mr. C. J. Glenn of Oaldand discussed the subject from the standpoint of the Elementary School Boy.

Dr. H. B. Wilson, Superintendent of Schools, Berkeley, talked on the “Place of Physical Education in the Curriculum.”

He said in part:

“1 feel very much out of place among you people, as much so as 1 would in officiating at a marriage ceremony. The aim of education, of course, as all of us have in mind, is to help society in the solution of its problems and in the satisfaction of its large needs in doing as much as the school can possibly do. It attempts to accomplish this in a number of ways:	It tries to help Society in training men for different voca-

tions: it attempts also to aid Society through training its students while in school for citizenship. We are coming to see that the school has a responsibility not only along these lines of endeavor for training for occupation but using leisure time for free play, and while not all of the work is committed to schools undoubtedly there is a large field in that particular direction, for which Physical Education is doing very much.

“Physical Education does not have the sole responsibility for health and vitality but I suppose the other subjects of the curriculum would concede to Physical Education the major part of the procedure of bringing the individual into a helpful possession of himself, so that he is able to carry his loads and deliver his blows with enough punch to take him into the social life which he is trying to serve. Physical Education is administering largely to the equipment of the individual with those skills and those types of conduct and those attitudes which are so much needed during one’s free play or leisure time, in order that this time may be spent in clear thinking, in right conduct and in co-operative, helpful ways.

“Any member of this audience who has had a son or daughter grow to maturity and be taken away from home can appreciate with what concern we ought to look to the proper equipment of all the people of this country to properly use their leisure time. If the son or daughter is doing work of some kind, or is at the table eating or is asleep, there is no anxiety, but the anxiety begins when you realize that not aU of the tine he has will be occupied in one of these three ways. The hours of

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
415

freedom are what concern you, and the father is wondering sometimes what that young man is doing. If he is interested in music or in swimming, or tennis or golf, you are not so much concerned as to how that free leisure play time is going to be spent. I had in mind merely to suggest the responsibility of Physical Education in supplying those skills, and the responsibility of Physical Education for health and developments that are needed in whatever occupation one may find himself when he goes from school out into the world. Jf the youngster can establish an interest and a desire for those things it is a pretty certain guarantee that that individual is going to serve Society; he is going to deliver what is expected of him. It is easy to throw out this general responsibility to you Expert Physical Educators/*

Miss Ethel Imogene Salisbury, Director of Kindergarten and Elementary Schools, Berkeley, spoke a few minutes on “Standards of Supervision as applied to Physical Education.**

The evening session was held in the Auditorium, Wheeler Hall, at 8:00 p. m. The principal speaker was William Burdick, M. D., Physical Director, State of Maryland, representing the American Physical Education Association, who spoke on “Keeping the Nation Physically Fit/*

Dr. Burdick said in part:

“It is appropriate that we, as physical education experts, consider this topic and our relation to it. Our forefathers used the word “fit” as applied to fighting. The word “fit** seems to have seven different meanings. The best definition is “that one is properly trained for action.** Different people have different meanings for the words “physically fit”* and if we are to talk to different people as physical directors we must get their meaning. Very few men in the war were physically fit. The military man’s conception of what is physically fit would hardly be appropriate for us to consider. The doctors take as a rule the patient’s condition when he comes out of the hospital.

“The greatest difficulty in having school children examined is that the average doctor looks at every individual as a case rather than as one who has every prospect to live. The anatomist looks upon “physically fit” as meaning structurally perfect. That is not a fair conception nor the conception that we must have. The Physiologist thinks the individual is physically fit when everything is functioning in the proper way. The business man’s conception of physical fitness is entirely different. He wants to get some one who will produce a great deal for him and he wants to have it done without any kind of feeling entering into it. The big business man is beginning to see that physical fitness is one of the most important problems he has to face. He is beginning to see that lack of joy in the work is something that can be helped by physical education. The physical educators, I think, might define physical fitness as applying to those who are properly trained for action in life, life includes the joy of living in health, growing regularly and rhythmically and able to adjust one’s self to one’s environment as well as adding every minute to the happiness of others.

“Watson says:	Behavior	is the central problem. Thought can be

safely left to take care of itself when safe methods of regulating behavior can be obtained. What a man thinks is only a reflection of what he does.

Digitized by <^.oo£Le
416

This seems like a rather radical statement, but you will admit with me that society’s estimate of character is based upon objective factors: namely upon what deeds the individual does during the brief span of life. The word “behavior” is used in psychology as equivalent to movement. The physical educator’s job is tremendous and overwhelming. The whole matter of our teaching in health education has got to be readjusted for we have got to relate the teaching of health to the activities themselves that we are using with adolescent children. We always attend to those details of an experience that have for us some interest or value. We physical educators have got to realize these facts if we are really going to keep the Nation fit. We ought to look at this problem of behavior because it means that the whole topic of physical education has got to be recast if we are to be of any service to the world.

“It seems to me in our physical education there must be a distinct division of labor and perhaps the few supermen may be the administrators. That is the condition of the human family. The mother originally was to all intents and purposes the physical educator and hygienist, and is today the educator of the child, but now she gets the physician to help her in directing the health of the child and the physical educator is going to help in doing this. There is a very large field, as brought out in the war, in the matter of remedial gymnastics. It was brought out last year that the convalescents in the hospitals can be helped by remedial gymnastics and we know there are thousands of cases where, although we cannot cure them, we can make their life much more happy and add to their earning capacity. • Reconstruction work will bring out a class of educators to treat the defective cases.

“The industrial field in recreation and physical education is one of the most promising- fields in the country today. It will not be required that a man needs to know all the scientific bases of education, but he must have a special training.

“Then comes the question of pre-school age. I believe unquestionably that the kind of activities carried on in your play school here is the type of school work that will be carried on in this country in the future.

“If we are to keep our people physically fit for the good of the Nation it must come during that period of adolescence when the boy and girl first come to know their relationship to other people. It is as important to know whether the child has completed his growth as to know when he shall go to work, not how old he is.

“Unless we realize the differences between the physiological ages of the child we are not going to be able to help him in his mental growth or physical growth. It seems to me that the problem of the physical educator of today is the problem of what we are going to do in helping the boys and girls of adolescent age of from 13 to 20. Today the problem is, are we people in physical education big enough to meet the problem in America? If we have the intelligence to work this thing out we can make a contribution not only to the United States, but to the world that I believe has never been equaled in any history. If this be true it is most important that we have a clear idea of athletics. So run that you may obtain. That has been largely the conception of athletics, the

Digitized by

Google
417

idea, they may gain something for themselves. “So run that you may attain.” The idea is to get our boys and girls so that' they may attain.

“Unless there is discovered some moral equivalent for war, there will be war. 1 always had the belief that girls did not want to do the same thing as boys, especially at the adolescent period. We may develop a type of athletics for girls that are different from those of boys.

“Strength, force and power are necessary for human life, for the kind of existence we must have if we are going to live a virile kind of life. Unquestionably we can secure these things far better through athletics properly conducted. The whole question of the raising of habits up to ideals has got to come from rules and law and order which come from games. An ideal is an idea surcharged with feeling, and thus made an effective goal of conduct.

“The only difficulty is not with the boys and girls, but with the teacher, and with myself as a coach 1 failed more than the children, for I believe that we have never given a fair chance to the boys and girls at adolescence. We lose the purpose in our adherence to rules in the adolescent period. We have got to idealize the rules and change our whole attitude as teachers.

“There is a decided growth and improvement in collegiate athletics. This year Oxford comes over and invites Princeton to come back to England. Athletics are not war:	they are competitions; they call for en-

thusiasm. It is just like the fight back of the barn with your brother. That ought to be the spirit of athletics. The teams ought to be considered guests - not enemies.

“Unquestionably, of course, we knew that nothing brings out the qualities of courage and bravery as do games. Human nature is of such a type that we have got to play games. We have to feel the responsibility to the other fellow. As to Decathlon events, if we are having competitions with other schools, there should be so many events that there won’t be enough children in the school to fill them all.

“The average high school, of which there are thousands that do not have over seventy or eighty pupils, are the schools we must legislate for. The larger schools are easier to legislate for. The events of the boys and girls should not be separated. If we are going to develop the right kind of allegiance to our schools, the girls must be considered also. Athletics in Maryland came as a result of an effort to help the citizenship of the State, rather than from a desire to promote the physical education of the people.

“If we can help our high school boys and girls, that will be the greatest contribution we can make.”

The Friday morning session was held at the Willard School, Berkeley, Mary McCall, Director Physical Education, Edison Junior High School, Berkeley, presiding.

At 9:30 a. m. Clark Wr. Hetherington, State Supervisor of Physical Education, gave an address on Professional Training for Physical Education.

He said in part:

“I feel that I could have talked on almost any other subject with less expenditure of energy and less apprehensive results than this subject of Physical Training.

Digitized by C^ooQLe
418

“Professions grow, and as professions grow, the function^ for thoic professions must grow. If you. will contrast the training * for mc&dnc of 20 years ago *mh that of today* the training for law, Jtne training for engineering or any of. the recpgqized professions you will see wnat a tremendous change, has tahen place for, the training for the fulfillment of those professions.	;	V	^

^Physical Education is in a process of growth more japed thap any Other profession in recent times* This growth has been going, on .for 1-5 years but the War has accelerated the growth to an astonishing degce*. This growth of Physical Education is a world movement; it is .net jo^al. England and France have made great strides, and here in the United States in the last legislature of Congress we had two bills pepdjpg ,ppo-,posing to promote the training of teachers.	,	\,-u

"Wfe have a large world movement. This emphdsia presents throe serioussituations. In the first place ft has created a demand for Mckcis beyond alt possible supply. There is a demand for a large nutafecr .of teachers immediately, and very few of the institutions have prepared themselves to supply these expert workers. There are 25,000*000 children in the 9tates. That means that we need 45,000 experts. * At the present time there are only 3,000 students in Physical Education m all th&e institutions. You wiH see the supply is totally inadequate, which lis.Ja serious situation. In the second place, educators —* the big educational leaders of the country are recognizing Physical Education as they have never before. They are looking at it with a-critical eye. They want results. They do nbt want a mete exercise for children. They Want a program that has life and they want results. We must prepare these

45,000	teachers that are coming on. There is an opportunity , for vice in California. We have 58 counties, most of which are larger 'than many of our Eastern States. It is utterly impossible to conceive of a <*ttpeg-visor for many of these counties^ There is an opportunity thatkhas ant yet been touched. We have only one County in the State* that has so far appointed a Supervisor. The salaries1 also are following, these opportunities. A little over a year ago they were between $1400 and $1806. Now* they have jumped to between $1800 and $3000. During the last two weeks seven or eight Superintendents have come to me and featd “1 will go just as high as you want if you will get some* one who witl put over the program for me.”	r	. v -

“If we are to command the respect of public opinion, we must prepare ourselves for a service, a great service. We may see something of this service if we will glance for a moment at the rise 6f "Physical Education ip our schools.	 k

“A few years ago there was no such thing as Physical Educariop. The three R’s were taught in the schools. With the rise of mbdeta industrialism many of these old opportunities have been wiped off the map. Children have been cramped in their opportunities due to the rise of our modern cities. Just before the Playground movement b^gan * to .be developed in 1906, children had forgotten how to play, so the slogan was "We must teach children how to play.” We have been Arryinfl; over the Physical Education into the schools. There fc tery lktle w it outside of the school. We find in those cities where they have organized

Digitized by LjOoq le
419

Physical Education and are conducting it with any perspective with reference to values^ the children are betjqr developed t$an the children in the country. So the schod h^ taLcn over and 19 taking oy#r mo$e and more every day the rojponsibilijty ,of Physical Edwcati.o? and thaf responsibility is our respwibtfUy, We are the expprjts, ,thfc teachers who: are1 to ttfce over the responsiWityin the,school and,make ^t effeedvq. Years ago! when educators were dominated by (formal phiiosqphy, they had* formal exercise. They borrowed frppi .tbc German system. ar>d there began a fight between. the German and the Swedish systems in tnis country. We, have gaiped a good many points from the old struggle. Anyone, will adra^t that our present training of Physical Education is neither Swedish nor German. Several movements started which gained momentum and which have established for us a system/ 1 refer first to the athletic movement, it grew ihto intercollegiate contests.' Jt spread out over the country until practically every High Schoolin the country has organized school atnletits.	J

“Then, there Was the Playground movement. This Playground movement began because our boys and girls were not getting activities. What is a Playground program land physical training piahtf It has brought the old swimming pool out of the Woods and established it here in the city where all of the children can have swimming. The essential thing that they have put over is an organization of incentive in those activities. So we have Out of this movement the establishment of certain ideals in the program. This program has not been coordinated’eftptcLy so that Physical Educators all over the country realize what»the result has beeni! We have a general feeling established already of the sign nificance of the fbtk daftcitig, games, etc.' It is our business to handlf this great niultiplicfty of activities. There are Fourteen different classes of Physical Training activities at this time in which we nrast.be experts. There is no one yet today who has caught up with the march, who is a master 1 of those activities.' While1 it is Our business to organize these Physical Training activities; our functions andour training are determined by the Value of these activities. We must become the si^ed professional engineers of the normal growth and’ development >of the child.. Through those activities we must be the'experts in guiding the normal growth and development of the child^

“What I; mean by thia is we may know all there is to know, -but we may know nothing aboujt Physical Education. If that wOre not true, we could get acrobats right out of our circuses and turn them loose on our children. We have literally hundreds and thousands of men in this country who are athletes but know nothing of the value of Physical Education.1	"

“An analysis of some of these activities will bring out what the training must be. Through the guidance of big muscle activities we must get development: the capacity to Withstand wear and tear. It is our business to guide activities to develop heart power: to guide the growth of this circulatory mechanism so that by the time the child reaches maturity he has skill. We must guide the activities to determine the lung power. This requires an understanding of Anatomy and Physiology. We must see that the child eats bulky food, so that by the time we reachr maturity we won’t know we have such things as stomachs.
426

“This is a guidance of selected activities, an adaptation of activities to children of different age periods to develop power. There is the nutrition, the rest, cleanliness, the time in the open air, freedom from infections, freedom from vices, freedom from narcotics, and so on down the list - fourteen of them. We may remove diseased tonsils. We have removed a handicap, but it is merely a condition of growth. It does not give any power. Activity alone develops power.

“Second, through big muscle activity we must develop skill: strength in handling the body in relation to environment. It depends upon the vitality; it depends upon the strength and skill so that we can play tennis with enjoyment; the same with golf or swimming. It depends upon ah emotional attitude. We must develop a child along all three of those lines if we are going to get results.

“Then we have a Safety First movement. Did you ever hear of a great athlete being run over by an automobile? The great majority of people are not skilled in handling their bodies. They have none of that quick, alert response to a mechanical situation. To develop this skill requires training. We must understand Physiology, Anatomy, Chemistry, and Biology. We must think what is going on in the heart, in the lungs, in the digestive system.

“We must lead these physical training activities to get character discipline. The moral training on the athletic field has been brought out in recent years. It is just as important as the health value of these activities. We have on the athletic field the expression of all the impulses. We have a social situation; a contest between the children. This gives us rivalry. We cannot help controlling these activities. It is our business to guide activities so that we have standards of behavior that are social according to present day standards.

“While we are training these children through the years of child* hood and youth we must establish ideals, which will enable these children to guide their own lives until they reach maturity. These coaches who have made a great study of producing winning teams, have always controlled the activities - let us say, in Foot Ball or Track Athletics -which are going to develop strength and skill so that the boys on those teams can compete with another team and win. To do this they haVe controlled the diet; they have controlled the amount of sleep; the smoking and drinking, even of tea and coffee. The sex life and the social life was controlled. The boys had to go to bed early so as to deliver the goods the next day in the contest: to get the man in the very best condition for the contest and win that contest. We must lift that process out of the objective of merely producing a winning team and apply that program to every single boy and girl that comes under our charge, not to break records but to give them the power and the capacity to complete their functions in life. We must control that life so that we establish habits and final ideals for efficiency in life, and again, because children have hereditary tendencies and because of the influence of the environment, handicaps develop or appear. There are those handicaps that 1 referred to a short time ago; also we keep, children in their seats so long a time that they develop crooked spines, crooked necks - and in order to get a good condition, we must be trained to recognize defects

Digitized by <^.ooQle
421

that are going to defeat us in attaining our aims; in developing strength and skill.

“The world is demanding that we get results outlined and that we fulfill our functions in establishing ideals. This means a training; not the old training of a few months or at most two years. It goes beyond all that. We must become experts in the growth and development of the child and the capacity and needs at each age. This is not a small responsibility. The responsibilities are appalling. It is perfectly true that we are not ready for the responsibilities. We have not had institutions enough for a standard training to have turned out the people so that they can do the work, but at least we have a tremendous opportunity for service. The quality of the service that we shall render and the public opinion that will arise with reference to our functions and the performance of those functions will depend upon the earnestness with which we go about the training of ourselves.

“Are we as a group of professional workers to set up and promote a professional training that will enable us to give the service to the rising generation that we should give, and in the rendering of that service develop an applause on the part of the public for the service that we render and at the same time have a conscience that we have done the work well?”

At the conclusion of Dr. Hetherington’s address, a short talk was given by Miss Hazel H. Pratt, Assistant Professor of Physical Education, University of Kansas, on the “Problems of Athletic Sports for Women.”

This was followed by a ten minute talk on “Organizing a Clearing House of Data on Physical and Mental Tests” by Virgil Dickson. Ph. D., Director of Bureau of Research and Guidance, Oakland and Berkeley.

“The responsibility of a Municipality for the Recreation of its Citizens,” was the subject of a talk by John Collier, Director of Americanization and Community Institutes. University of California Extension Division. Director of Immigrant Education. State Commission of Immigration and Housing.

At 12:15 p. m. the delegates had luncheon at Berkeley Inn.

Short talks were given by leaders of various professional groups -Universities, Public High Schools, Public Elementary Schools, Private Secondary Schools, Y. M. C. A., Y. W. C. A., Public Playground, Camp Fire Girls, Boy Scouts of America, Social Centers, and Competitive Athletics.

In the afternoon the convention held a session in Moss wood Park, Oakland, where a short program was held and games participated in, teams being made up from various states and sections.

At 5:15 p. m. the delegates were driven over skyline boulevard.

6:30 P. M. - Picnic Supper was enjoyed by the delegates at Moss-wood Park.

Later, short talks were given around the Camp Fire, the different physical educators telling of the work being done at their particular school or locality. Among the talks given, was the following by T. B. Chang, International Representative of the Y. M. C. A. from Shanghai, China.

“Dr. George J. Fisher once said, “An unfortunately large number

Digitized by
422

of our population have not the physicaf basis for being gdod.^ /This , is especially (true in China where physical education has been neglected for generations, Por many yfears .niissic^artes" atid national leaders of , great fame, together with oiir patriotic citizens, havehonestty attempted to find the causes of the backwardness of our people, blit the fundamental caupe involved in t)j\( FisherV statement has just begun to be Realized “tor centuries bodily development was scorned because it makes one resemble the despised. coolie. When tennis court Was first listed in a North, Chinese University, the Chinese Could not understand die absurd antics and caperings of the!* erstwhile dignified teachets. fCan you not affprd to hire a coolie to do this for yotf?* asked an interested ob-

server.

“Among the people the play instinct is' not developed. There are no playgrounds in most of the cities^ There are neither Combative nor competitive games, national or team games. In other words, there is no project laboratory for the- development of the psychological qualities necessary to progress, democratic citizenship, and an active mind, and the stagnation of Chinese civilization may be found right here.

"However, conditions have been changed recently. Physical education presents many signs of encouragement. The Far Eastern Championship Games of 1915 were held in Shanghai, China, with over. 100*000 people in attendance during the various events of the week, and much momentum has been given athletics in China by, her; victory in these games. One newspaper commented ‘Since the games, servants in China ,are practising with a big stone at putting the shot. Boys in .streets jiimp over everything and the spirit of racing seems to be, in the blood/ “In the year o? 1915, the Governor of Kiangsu Province ordered the establishment of playgrounds in each of the sixty, or more districts in the Province* with the further stipulation that two men from each district 1 be .sent to Shanghai for a four .months’ course of training. 132 students were present* and all expenses < were paid, by the local government. The Young Men’s Christian Association was asked to take over the management: of; this short term school and assist in providing adequate training for these selected men; Most of these men, after completing their course, started playgrounds in th^ir respective districts. •Today the Kiangsu Province leads the whole. country, in the number and management of playgrounds. Jn the/same year, the Association was invited to organize a Department of Physical Education and direct the ^ work of that Department in the Nanking Higher Normal College. In the' year 1918 the Association starred a School .of Physical Education. During its operation-26 students were trained for the leadership of. physical work in China. The. school was temporarily closed in June on account of necessary furloughs , of faculty members.	<

“In city associations the number of attendance in the physical department-is increasing every year. Thus in 1917, there were 130,890 people used the, physical department; in 1918, 224*197; and in 1919,

*5 W3-

“The Chinese are ready to be taught to play. ‘Play for Everybody* is the slogan of the Association in the development of Physical work in China. Athletics are yearly growing in popularity throughout China especially in Colleges and Universities.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
423

>

"There is a jjreat awakening of our people to the valpe of Physical education and it is a period of general awakening and'expansion. That Me period has come so suddenly is shown by the fact that the nation finds itself unable to supply the trained men to meet the crisis: indeed. ‘Tho harvest is plentiful but the laborers ate few/ Yet it is a certainty that physical education is bound to make great strides in the next few Vears. The Central Government, boards of education, and medical and health societies are turning their attention to a more thorough conservation of physical vitality. I am confident that physical education wiU# ultimately fill a unique place in the regeneration of Chinese society.” k . The Saturday morning session was held at the Auditorium Wheeler Hall, University of California, with Dr. A. D. Browne, presiding.

5:15 A. M.—Report of Committee.

9:45 A. M.—"The Place of Personal and Educational Hygiene in the Physical Education Program” by Bertha Stuart, M. D., Reed College, Portland, Oregon.

ion j A. M.—"Health Education” by Richard Bolt, M. D., General Director American Child Hygiene Association.

11:30 A. M.—"The Y. M. C. A. Part in Health Education.” by S. Wiley Winsor, Director of Physical Education, San Francisco Y. M. C. A.

Dr. Bolt said in part:

“My plea here is not that children should not be instructed in these essentials but that they should be differentiated from health measures. It has been the confusion in these matters that has largely led to the growth of cults which, have emphasized cheerfulness, well-being, bodily vigor but denied the possibility of acquiring communicable diseases and relegated all of the mishaps which might come to an individual* as errors.

"Health education in one form or another has been attempted in the public schools since 1882. Vermont was the first state to pass a law requiring instruction in physiology and hygiene in the schools. Since that time the teaching of these subjects has been delegated to one or the ,othci ofi the following:

1.	The grade teachers themselves. Elementary physiology and hygiene was taught which gave special attention to the effects or supposed effects of alcohol and tobacco. Considerable attention was given to air and "hot air.” This instruction was largely formal with text books and charts. Much of it did not appeal to the vital interest of the child nor lead in most cases to the formation of health habits.

2.	Domestic Science Teachers, now more properly included • under Home Economics, attempted to teach the preparation of food in relation to ^health. The question of nutrition was touched upon. Sewing materials and prcJpet dressing, including proper shoes; the care of the house and of the sick and emergencies were all brought out more or less in the Home Economics program. A very good modern program has recently been announced as to the opportunity for inculcating health habits through the Home Economics Department. The following is an oudine of the same:

(a)	Skill in making out menus so that there may be a balanced ration.

(b)	Hygienic and sanitary preparation and cooking of food.

Digitized by LjOOQle
424

(c)	Proper care of ice chest and cupboard-cleanliness, screening from flies, protection from mice, ants, etc.

(d)	Washing dishes correctly. Teachers should emphasize the necessity of rinsing all dishes in boiling hot water.

(e)	Cleanliness of linen, towels, dish cloths, aprons, etc. Most children if properly encouraged by the teacher will enjoy and take pride in keeping everything neat and clean.

(f)	Safe disposal of garbage. One of the best ways of disposing of inedible, incombustible garbage is to bury it deep enough so that it will not be disturbed by dogs or by cultivation.

(g)	Washing the hands before eating. This is one of the most important of health habits. Teachers should insist on its being carried out.

(h)	Proper use of individual napkin.

(i)	Correct mastication of food. Lunch / should be prepared early enough so that the children will feel a sense of leisure when eating.

(j)	Cheerfulness at meal-time.

3. Science Teachers: Hygiene may be taught as a nature study subject Biology showing the conditions, phenomena, and process of physical life. In this group sex hygiene may be presented. This idea of hygiene as a nature study has been well worked out in a syllabus by Professor F. M. Gregg. This syllabus has in it many of the old ideas on sanitation and hygiene but the general principles of utilizing nature study to impress lessons in hygiene is an excellent one.

4.	Medical Inspection and Health Development work in schools utilizing physicians and nurses for instructing in the prevention of diseases, correction of defects, personal, domestic and public preventive medicine. This is a line of effort that is now being evolved in a number of places under the health development work in the public schools.

5.	Physical Training now developed in physical education by laying stress upon formal exercises, gymnastics, play and athletic combative exercise and group games, through these attempted to form good physical habits. The ideal instruction for the present would seem to be a correlation in the work of these various departments and assigning to each those subjects in which they have the most preparation and experience.

“What then are the objects of health education? As Dr. Burnham has so well said, ‘The past decade has been a period of talk about School Hygiene; the next decade should be one of training in School Hygiene/ We have made the mistake of assuming that the child is interested in health. No normal child is interested in health per se. It has very little regard for future of health benefits so that health habits must be taught indirectly to the child. Hence to establish health habits we must appeal to the vital interests of the child. These are:

(1) The play instinct, in groups or individually. This is an admirable method to use in inculcating health habits and there is no reason why it should not be used much more largely than it is at present. Children have learned how to play ‘Drop the Handkerchief’ why should we not teach them how to ‘Hold the Handkerchief’ and use it in the proper fashion?

Digitized by tjOOQle
425

(2)	The dramatic instinct, by means of health plays, health fairies and health clowns. This method of instilling health habits is being used through the efforts of the child health organization which is not only furnishing health clowns and health fairies but has put out very attractive literature.

(3)	Competition, as individuals or in groups. This method can be used to advantage in the classroom in nutrition classes.

(4)	The Organization instinct, gang spirit, health clubs. In this line the modern health Crusader has entered and for certain communities particularly in the rural districts it has proved quite successful. It could be simplified, however, still maintaining much of its appeal to the child.

(5)	The desire to please and excel, the approbation of the teacher goes a long way to securing the child's co-operation in forming health habits.

(6)	The project method in arousing health interest, the making of health pictures and posters by the children themselves, the composing of health rhymes and stories of health heroes have all been used by skillful teachers to good effect.

“In appealing to any of these motives care must be taken not to stamp as a health habit those things which largely contribute to the aesthetic sense, to the well-being, alertness, the general vigor of the child without affording adequate protection against communicable diseases.

“We must closely differentiate between physical fitness, vigor, alertness, etc., and resistance or immunity to infectious diseases. The two are not synonomous although they may have an indirect bearing one upon the other. We are liable to arouse a false sense of security in concentrating upon physical training with the assurance that it will insure immunity to disease. We have an excellent example in the American Indians and Esquimos of peoples who used to be full of physical vigor, muscular activity and alertness who, when coming in contact with the diseases of the white man, notably Tuberculosis and Measles, were unable to withstand their onslaughts. These diseases have played havoc not only with the American Indian and Esquimos but with the Fiji Islanders and Africans, thus showing that no amount of physical vigor will protect against the diseases with which the race is not familiar.

“With a settled comfortable environment, a general sense of wellbeing, and a freedom from unpleasant living or working conditions, there is a tendency to minimize or even deny the existence of pathologic states in the body which might be brought about by infectious diseases or accidents. The presence of a fairly safe environment has been brought largely through sanitary efforts and prevention of the spread of communicable diseases, and both those who believe in communicable diseases and community efforts to control diseases and those who do not, share in its benefits in the reduction of Typhoid Fever, Tuberculosis, Malaria, Yellow Fever, and the Diarrhoeas of infancy.

“Immunity is either natural or what is called racial and hence hereditary, or is acquired by either an attack of one of the specific diseases or by small doses of the organisms or its toxins. The terms ‘resistance’ and ‘immunity* as well as their converse ‘susceptibility* are relative, not
m

1 absolute. Degree of resistance exist which are determined by? individual *and rttcial* peculiarities and absolute immunity ds very. rate. Subtle ^changes hi the bleed irid tissues bringing about indhridual variations in metabolism and body chemistry are largely responsible; idr immunity to certain diseases. It may be that anatomical differences, diet* metabolism and temperature have some bearing upon immunity but none of these have been shown conclusively to affect it although these things

*	may affect' the general well-being and vigor of the body,

“What we heed then is a more careful differentiation of the fields of physical education and health development, a correlation of the work 1 of these two departments and training teachers who appreciate the relative value of the different factors entering into health.”

~ v ; The resolutions adopted at the Conference will be found in the

*	Notes and Comments Department of this issue of Mind and Body.

v .	basketball Eor girjls.

BY FRED E. FOERTSCH, PITTSBUXG, PA.

C'	------------

:* Basketball as an athletic activity for girls, especially in the high $ schools, is becoming more popular each year. The desire to take active part rather than attend passively, has led to the demand for teaching the game. The following suggestions are submitted as an aid for those cjvho ,are confronted by this demand and wish to organize, control and ,teach the fundamentals of the game to the better advantage of the high ^hool girls.

z . -	Group	Games	as an Aid.

g ' The limiting of the number of players makes the game of basketball impractical for class purposes, However, many gymnastic games may ' be taught wherein the number of participants is not limited and in which the 'fundamentals of basketball, such as throwing, catching and passing, may be practised. Such games as Relay. Ball in its various forms, Tag

*	Ball, Chase Ball, End Ball, Corner and Captain Ball, aqd even Volley Ball, ail contain certain of the elements of basketball and a considerable portion of the class period may be given over to the playing, of these games. Girls having played these games will very readily adapt themselves to

?.the conditions under basket ball.

■* r - ■	Intra-Murol Contests.

' In every high school the intradural contests should be encouraged. ' Where the number of participants engaging in these contests is large, sufficient material available for the school team will never be lacking. 1 With sufficient experience in these contests, girls with natural ability wiH soon develop into good players and with a little encouragement and

*	coaching may become efficient enough to be placed on the varsity squad.

Intra-school teams may be organized and grouped in several different ways. The customary way i9 to have each class represented by a team.

*	These teams may then be scheduled to play a series of games for the championship in the school. Where the student body is not very large this arrangement may suffice. Where many gymnasium classes are

Digitized by v^ooQie
"4^7

schtetyW oneor two representative teams from each class "may he fouhd fcetter arrangement. The teamsfromthe upper and; lowered asses, . w)|eit grading is possible* should be separated to form two sections, the ^tejyns ui each section playing among themselves. Thus the playors pf .teach. section will be more nearly pf the same age and ability. The essential point in organising intra-school contests is that the arrangement most be suited to the conditions of the school. The awarding of a small emblem in recognition of faithful and conscientious work wHl greatly . stimulate interest. .

Concerning the playing conditions, gprls should never be allowed to .play ; under the, conditions prescribed under boys* rules. Four five . minute .periods with an intermission of five minutes between periods will j,be sufficient.., With a time,arrangement of this kind four teams may play .alternately,, two teams playing while the other two are resting

Selection of Players for the School Team*

‘In selecting forwards one must look for speed and skill in floor work and in shodting baskets. By good floor work is meant quick and accurate passing and ability to elude the guard. One forward fairly tall and able to shoot well from under the basket with the other forward a fast floor worker and able to shoot well from any angle, usually makes a splendid combination.

Orie of the centos should be tell and a good jumper in Order to get the ball to her own players at the “tip-off”. Since both are confined to the center of the floor they must meet the plays coming from both ends of the field of play. The amount of work they are required to do is much greater than that of either the forwards or the guards and they Should therefore, possess plenty of endurance. Both should be fast floor workers, possessing the ability to intercept the passes of the opponents otiid passing the ball quickly artd accurately to their forwards. Ability ‘ to shoot baskets is not essential.	.	.

'Hie guards should by all means be tall in order to cover the opposing forwards. Till'guards may preveht many1 goals attempted from under the basket. DiaghdSing the plays of the opponents and intercepting or * Breaking the play, is one of the most important essentials of good guarding. Both guards, once they1 have the ball in their possession, must 'be able to start the ball tdward their own goal quickly and without hesitating. *To do this both must be good floor workers andf quick and accurate passers.	‘	:	/'

^	Practise.

One game a week, preferably on the last school day, will allow a sufficient number of games to be scheduled in a. season and enough rest between each game. Not more than three'practise sessions should be required in' preparation for each game.

Op Monday all faults noticed in the previous game should be corrected. All plays should be briefly reviewed. Then after shooting and passing practise a short scrimmage lasting not more than five minutes may be allowed. For the sake of variety the players may be shifted to different positions. Forty-five minutes of snappy work is sufficient.

Tuesday, the shooting and passing practise as well as a thoro review

Digitized by v^rOOQle
428

of all plays will suffice. The period may be concluded with some group game in which passing and throwing of the ball is the essential feature.

The work for Wednesday should be the heaviest. After a few minutes of shooting and passing a short scrimmage of five minutes may be given. Corrections of misplays may then be made. Team plays reviewed and shooting practise lasting about ten minutes should follow. The work of the day may then be concluded with an eight or ten minute scrimmage.

Thursday, the day before the game, should be given over to complete rest or at the most not more than a short and light signal and shooting practise should be attempted.

During every practise scrimmage the instructor should call all fouls and misplays as in a regular game. Not more than two or three seconds should be allowed for passing the ball into the field of play from out of bounds. If the player out of bounds hesitates the ball should be given to the opponent. Nothing will do more to put snap and vim into the scrimmage than quick passing in from out of bounds. All corrections of misplays and floor work should be made after the scrimmage is over. Constant delay to explain mistakes will only result in slow and sluggish work.

(To be continued.)

VISUAL HEALTH EDUCATION IN GRAMMAR SCHOOLS.*

C. E. TURNER, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF BIOLOGY AND PUBLIC HEALTH, MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, CAMBRIDGE.

What should grammar school children be taught about health? Can the motion picture be made an effective aid in teaching hygiene?

The first question has received much consideration from both educators and public health experts. The second question was presented to the writer at a time when he was busy developing and improving the process of taking motion pictures through the microscope. This investigation had been undertaken in co-operation with an instructor in photography at the Institute of Technology because it promised returns both in the field of biological research and in that of education. So great, however, seemed the importance of the task undertaken by Dr. Vaughan and his Health and Sanitation Committee of the Society for Visual Education that all the work previously done in this direction has been turned for the present toward aiding the solution of the problem of health instruction in grammar schools. The following discussion is in form of an answer to the above questions.

The Case For Health Education.

The question of what to teach is linked with the question:	“Why

should we teach health?** Everyone appreciates the importance of hygienic living, especially if he is able to remember and contrast a period of sickness with a period of bouyant health in his own experience. Sweet as may be the fruit of the tree of knowledge, nothing is sweeter than life

* Reprinted from “Visual Education.**

Digitized by
429

itself—life not embittered by the canker of disease. “A sound mind in a sound body” is still in favor among educators, although, as Prof. Wm. T. Sedgwick points out, “Nowadays we know only too well that the sound mind and the sound body are unavailing for the conduct of normal living unless the environment with which they have to deal consists of fairly good air, fairly pure water, fairly good food, and is fairly free from communicable diseases, unfavorable temperatures, defective ventilation, dirt, noise and other prejudicial sanitary conditions.”

The last three decades have given us a new science of disease prevention and a new story of health preservation through proper care of the human mechanism. The maintenance of public health has become increasingly a function of government. In a democracy like ours this function progresses step by step with public information regarding its importance and soundness; for the health activities of the government must win the approval and support of the people. It has become important, therefore, that we should instruct our great body of citizens-to-be in community health as well as in the care of their bodies before they leave the public schools.

When the draft statistics informed us that one-third of our men of military age were unfit for service, there was an immediate response to the implied suggestion that we should take better care of the health of our school children. This is already resulting in better medical supervision as well as in more consideration for the teaching of hygiene; and we may hope that our work in school hygiene will eventually equal or surpass the work of the European countries which have hitherto led us in this field.

Perhaps a more direct suggestion for the teaching of hygiene is to be found in the statistics which indicate that we are making rapid progress against diseases which are controllable by proper sanitation, but very slow progress against those diseases which are to be controlled only through the personal hygiene of the individual. Our army records give the best data, for there medical and health authorities had direct supervision. The death rate was commendably low, and the fatalities from enteric and insect-borne fevers, which had caused so many deaths in previous wars, were practically negligible. The great causes of death were the respiratory diseases. Here personal hygiene and not sanitary supervision is the important factor.

Health experts are well agreed that the great saving of lives in thr next generation is to be accomplished through the teaching of the fundamental facts of personal and preventive hygiene. An appreciation of this has already stimulated the colleges to strengthen the teaching of hygiene* and almost every institution of higher education has recently enlarged or is contemplating an expansion of its health activities.

The public health nurse has assisted health officials to save thousands of lives because she added the personal touch to health information and gave her instruction individually. The same personal contact exists in the schoolroom, and those educators, both administrators and teachers, who are providing live, practical and interesting health instruction are adding immeasurably to the health and happiness of our rising generation*

We know that if there are things which we desire the next generation
of Americans to possess, those things we i^ust put into the public schools. Surely we want nealt;h in the next generation.

.= ”... •• ww*9	r

i But what-should be taught?. . 'fbe,..subject of Jiygiptie qaturilJy;, dir vide* itself into two phases: personal, hygiene, or the.ctfc ,of the., body mechanism*1 4mdi preventive hygiepe,. or .the, cultivation of, jiving, habits which enable Us to avoid infectious, diseases	;	,.......	-*,-1.

Personal Hygihne.	:

The proper use of the body in the norntal activities of life! is an old subject, but never has it had moie importance. Never has there been * a greater temptation or tendency for great masses of our population to avoid a normal and vigorous physical life. It is the untised or seLdem* used machine that is lit the "greatest danger. A knowledge qf the-iei lationship betweeh health and happiness and the: care of the body i*

highly important.	'	;	*•»	*........................... *

What ate the essential daily health habits? What are the essential facts in the care of the digestive apparatus, the heart, the lungs, tbd eyes, the teeth, the skin? What purposes are Served by: the different kinds of food? What is the relationship between ventilation and lypulth? What is, desirable-exercise and what are its benefits?. What effects h^avc anger, worry and the other emotions? . These are acme of. the,pertinent questions concerning this phase of the subject.	.	*

The answers to these questions can only follow a knowledge^ pf certain body structures- and functions* hut .this does, no* piean that 1 a detailed knowledge of anatomy and-physiology must precede thoae, answer Every one of these subjects can be presented to the child in terms jvhich he can understand and ways which, will interest him.

These subject* may well be preceded in the Mcla$$roqm pr,ou,tbc screen by a discussion of the humak mechanism*,. Any child is .interested in the*story of the modern steamboat, with its,bpilery(firebox-and pngioc for transforming energy, its skeleton framework which gives form to tbft its system of communication reaching into every compartment,, jtg motoi parts, and its water-proof covering of paint. Thp child is, interested to learn that the boat takes on fuel, lubricating material and material fo( repairs. It is pleasant to think.of the ship, with its proud and graceful form, always kept fit and trim and equal to the roughest weather..	. .*

The child is equally interested in the milch mqre wonderful human mechanism with its parallel and surpassing accomplishments. The child at grammar school age is ready to study the parts of the human body with real interest in the mechanism and without any undesirable, te--action. As he studies the different parts he learns of their, care. . With the body, as with the ship, the child does not ask what is its, physics, its chemistry, or its precise architecture. He asks rather:., “What doe* that part do? What is this good for? How do you keep- it gping?” He is ready for hygiene long before he is ready for physiology.,

Preventive Hygiene<	- .	^

The second phase of ’the subject—preventive hygiene^-should give the child a fundamental conception of the nature and habitat of tnietbl organisms and the way in which the infectious diseases are avoided; it

Digitized by (^.ooQle
m

should *each the child what the; organized forces of. government do for health preservation.

We hear some complai&t»that children are frightened by the teaching* of these facts; but the writer fia? seen this subject taught without 4Uiy: of<these undesirable reactions. Ought we not tp ask ourselves always, when we find it difficult;to present the facts of nature, whether it is the facts or the methods that are at fault? Perhaps we have been talking too much about germs.. When we find a child or an adult who believes that all bacteria axe germs, we must conclude that the individual has been studying pathology, ana not. bacteriology. (	1	’

It is not the normal method of approach to ta}k only of disease* producing organisms. No one would think of substituting criminology for sociology.* To cite a, parallel example, suppose that whenever the city child were told of. the, fields and woods (ic heard only about th^ poison ivy, dogwood, sftakeberries and poison utpshrooms. po you suppose he would have a wholesome desire to go to the country? And yet these poison plants do, exist among, the higher plants and in as, great * proportion as do the disease germs among microscopic plants. Ought not the child to know, not only that most bacteria are harmless, but that the bacteria' which cause decay and break down organic substances are j.us£ as essential to the continuation of life on. the globe as are the green plants which build up new substances? We teach the child to be interested in the maple tree which makes sugar. Why not also interest him in, the bacillus which makes vinegar?

The Logical Approved We teach the nature of wild plants and flowers and h6w they gfoW*; incidentally we teach people to avoid the poisonous plants. A very Vtmflar approach can be made in the teaching of preventive hygiene. If a child learns the real nature of bacteria and their growth, He will very naturally accept the facts concerning the relatively few harmful ones.

That is the point of view which was taken in preparing the film from which the Illustrations for this article have been drawn4—a film entitled ‘‘Getting Acquainted with Bacteria—the Smallest Plants in the World:”	<

In this film only the harmless or useful bacteria are considered. The children who were photographed in the picture were thoroughly interested in the strange plants and in the “gardens’* in which they were grown; in “making the soil like a gelatin pudding/* and in sterilizing it to “ktM any weeds” which might be present. Especially were they interested in the microscope which enabled them to see things not visible to the naked eye. They clearly appreciated the way in which the microscope “because it had one eye very close to the plants/.* made it possible to see the separate plants just as one sees the separate plants in entering a garden of which only the rows were visible at a distance.

They learned that these harmless little plants grow in dirt and in water. From that point it will be an easy step for them to learn that dangerous plants might be mingled with useful bacteria under certain conditions, just as poison ivy might get into a field of grass. With this fundamental conception the child is ready to move on to a consideration
432

of the personal and public problems of preventive hygiene and preventive sanitation.

Some of the Problems.

There are problems which confront health motion picture production for grammar school children, but these are not insurmountable. Perhaps the first difficulty is due to the fact that health teaching is not yet standardized in the way that the teaching of geography, history and civics is standardized. To be sure, a few states have legislated to secure a definite number of minutes of health teaching each week, and the subject is rapidly taking form throughout the country; but at present there is no well-defined course to be followed.

Again, if they are to be most useful, health films must do more than present facts; they must stimulate action and correct wrong habits of living and thinking. This is a difficult task. Fortunately, however, the stimulus does not end with the picture, for in the grammar school program there is to follow the strong and effective personal contact of our excellent body of grade teachers. Here as elsewhere the picture is a teaching aid—not a substitute.

In making pictures concerning the care of the body, there is a difficulty in presenting the old facts in an interesting and compelling way. The child must not be left with a “You must keep clean.*’ He must be shown why cleanliness is necessary; a desire for cleanliness must be established.

In presenting the facts of disease prevention the problem is quite different. The subject is interesting because it is new, but care must be taken not to take the mind of the child from the cheerful and positive thought of health and center it upon the disturbing and negative thought of disease. But successful pictures in both phases of the subject can be produced by sufficient care and preliminary experimentation.

A Rich Field For Visual Education.

It is the firm belief of the writer that visual education offers an unprecedented opportunity for teaching health. The school curriculum is already full, and yet the people of the country demand that the essentials of health education shall be taught. The motion picture, with its time-saving and telling manner of presenting health information, will go far toward establishing for us the brief, effective and standardized instruction which the welfare of the country and the health of the people demand.

(Editor s Note:	The	author	of this article writes that he would be glad

to hear from any who are interested in the subject of visual health educationy and that the results of his own experiments in this new field of teaching an freely available to readers of this journal.)

Digitized by CjOOQLe
433

XTRACTS AND REPRINTS

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS

BY GEORGE J. ALTMANN, NEWTON, MASS.

The Uruguay Sport Journal, published by the National Commission for Physical Education shows that this small nation to the south of us is keenly alive to the value of physical training. Among the various activities to which this journal is devoted are Gymnastics, Track and Field Athletics, Football, Soccer, Basketball, Baseball, Volleyball, Boxing, Wrestling, Tennis, Swimming, Skating, Cycling, Motorcycling and Yachting.

Extracts from “Koerper und Geist"y Leipzig,

Physical Exercise. (From the proceedings of the National School Conference, June n—19, 1920).—The committee also approved of the daily period of physical training in the schools, as the goal toward which we should strive. In view of the difficulty in securing the necessary space for this, the committee expressed itself in favor, for the present, of three physical training periods a week, and one play afternoon beginning with the tenth year.—It was also agreed that every child, who is physically able, be required to learn to swim, and that every city be required to provide instruction in swimming. The proposals for hikes of a half day and a full day's length were approved as part of the program.—Excuses from physical training are to be granted only on the advice of a physician. Special classes are to be arranged for children so weak as to be unable to take part in the regular classes.—The committee was in full accord in all the above proposals; a minority vote was not required in any case. We hope that a realization of the importance of this movement will rapidly become widespread among our people, and that all parties will unite to aid it.— Vol. 2Qy No. 6.

Build Playgrounds. Dominicus, chairman of the Central Committee on Play suggests that the various cities begin a vigorous program to provide satisfactory playgrounds. He states that the value and need of playgrounds is generally recognized and adds that this is an excellent time to provide the play spaces needed to carry out the program provided by the National School Conference, for children 10 years old and over, as well as to furnish work for the large number of unemployed.— Vol. 29. No. 5.

Pro Corpore, The new official journal of the Swiss society of the same name is published for the present bi-monthly. It is to be devoted to hiking, gymnastics, games, and sports. The first number, printed carefully on good paper, and illustrated, creates a favorable impression and offers much promise for future numbers.—Vol. 2<?y No. 6.

German Collegiate Olympics, Hanover 1920. This event, held July 29—August 1, was a great demonstration for the cause of physical education. Over 700 students; from 36 colleges, took part in the contest and showed that they could be depended upon to support the gymnastic and athletic clubs. The contests included gymnastics, field and track,
434

model team exhibitions, football, batball, fistball, tennis, swimming, hockey and fencing.—Vol. 2g> No. 7.

Physical Education and Mental Training, by F. A. Schmidt, M. D. We expected much from the pen of such a noted writer, and we were not disappointed. With an abundance of carefully ascertained figures to substantiate his claims, Dr. Schmidt shows the close relationship between physical and mental training. He shows that a healthy mental development and mental efficiency are closely connected with proper bodily activity, this beginning in childhood. We trust that this book will be widely read and taken to heart.—Vol. 2gy No. 7.

New Proposals for Time Allotted to Physical Training.—The author, head of a large seminary and gymnasium for girls, says in part that what has been done for physical training up to the present has been entirely inadequate; that bodily training must be placed on the same basis as mental training. He sees no possibility of a comprehensive physical training program while it is bound up with the schools as at present and states that the afternoons should be devoted to physical training (and other technical subjects) while the mornings are given over to mental training. He proposes that each city be divided into districts, similar to school districts, so that all the children of a district will come together for gymnastics, play, swimming, singing, drawing.—Vol. 29, No. 4.

Provisions for Physical Training in the Schools.—The Minister of Instruction of Prussia gives the following provisions in his official publication:	A gymnastic period for the two upper college classes, and a 15

minute recreative period in the lower classes are to be added. Play afternoons are to continue regularly thruout the school year, and the size of the play groups is to be decreased. The number of days for hikes into the country is to be increased; swimming is to be more generally taught, more inter-school contests are to be arranged. In the three lower grades, exercise is to be given once each morning. Beginning with the fifth grade, compulsory play afternoons of 2 to 3 hours are to be added. Special days may be set aside for competitive games and inex-expensive prizes provided.—Vol. 29, No. 7.

AMERICAN PLANT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION USED IN FRANC E .

The American system of physical education is being exported to France by the American committee for devastated France. At the request of the Inspector d’Academie at Laon, the American committee has taken complete charge of physical education in all the schools in Bleran-court, Anizyand Coucy in the devastated Aisne region.

Since the war, a compulsory physical education law, requiring exercises and gymnastics in the schools, has been passed which found French teachers unprepared to carry out the work according to modern methods. The American committee was appealed to, therefore, to establish classes for the native French teachers in this subject.

The children of the French devastated regions are greatly in need of physical training, and, although the work is new to them, are entering into it with great enthusiam. Sport fetes are arranged twice a year by the American committee. These fetes consist of competitions between different school teams, and banners and badges are awarded to the winning teams.

Digitized by t^ooQle
435

RECORDS MADE IN 1920.

TRACK AND FIELD.

60 Yard Bash: 6 2-5 sec. (indoors) Harold B. Lever, U. of P., Feb. 21. Buffalo, N. Y.

5000 Meter Run:	14	min.	45	sec. (out doors) Charles F. Hunter (un-

attached) June 26. Pasadena, Cal.

70 Yard High Hurdle: 9 1-5 sec. (indoors) Walker Smith, Cornell University, March 13, New York. Everett F. Smalley, U. of P. Feb. 21, Buffalo.

1 Mile Relay: 3 min. 21 sec. (indoors) All Buffalo Team, consisting of

J. N. Halberfield, Walter F. Koppish, Melvin J. Sutton and Carl

H.	Brandt, April 17, Buffalo, N. Y.

440 Yard Hurdle:	54	1-5	sec. (outdoors) John K. Norton, Olympic Club,

San Francisco, June 26. Pasadena, Cal.

Javelin Throw:	197	ft.	5	1-4 in. James C. Lincoln, New York Athletic

Club, Sept. 25, New York.

3000 Meter Walk:	12	min.	56	2-j sec., William Plant, Morningside A. C.,

New York, June 26, Philadelphia.

2	Mile Run Junior Championship: 9 min. 35 2-5 sec. (indoors) Harry G.

Helme, Lafayette High School, Buffalo, N. Y., Feb. 21, Buffalo, N. Y.

ROPE CLIMBING.

38 Feet Up:	16	3-5	sec.	Louis	Weissman, 92 ht. Y. M. H. A., New York,

April 17, New York.

SWIMMING RECORDS MEN.

200 Yard Free Style, bath:	(20	yds.) 9 turns: 2 min. 6 2-5 sec. Norman

Ross, Illinois A. C., Dec. 3, 1919), Honolulu.

440 Yard Free Style, hath (20 yds.) 21 turns: 5 min. 5 3-5 sec., Norman Ross, Illinois A. C., Dec. 4, 1919, Honolulu.

880 Yard Free Styley Open salt water (100 yds.) 8 turns:	11	min.	13	3-5

sec., Norman Ross, Illinois A. C., Nov. 1, 1919, Honolulu.

7000 Yard Free Style Open salt water (100 yds.) 9 turns: 12 min. 44 3-5 sec., Norman Ross, Illinois A. C., Nov. 1, 1919, Honolulu.

750 Yard Free Style, bath (25 yds.) 5 turns: 1 min. 29 3-5 sec., Tedford Cann, Detroit A. C., April 17, Cleveland.

200 Yard Relay, 4 men, jo yds. each, bath (25 yds.): 1 min. 39 4^5 sec., Yale University team (R. F. Selly, J. M. Hincks, L. P. Thurston,

E.	Binney) March 17, Yale University.

Plunging, 1 minute time limit, bath: 82 ft. 9 in., Fred Schwedt, Detroit Y. M. C. A., March 1, Pittsburg.

8WIMMING ON BACK.

JOO Yards Open Tidal salt water straightaway:	1	min. 8 sec., Warren

Kealoha, Honolulu, April 19, Honolulu.

JOo Yard, hath (20 yds.) 4 turns: 1 min. 8 1-5 sec., Harold Kruger, St. Mary’s College, San Francisco, April 29, Honolulu.

Digitized by Google
436

200 metery bath (20 yds.) J turns: 1 min. 16 4-5 sec., Harold Kruger, St. Mary’s College, San Francisco, April 29, Honolulu.

SWIMMING RECORDS WOMEN.

So Yard Free Style: Open Tidal salt water, straightaway 29 1-5 sec., Frances Cowells Schroth, San Francisco, Nov. 3, 1919, Honolulu.

100 Yard Free Styley Open Tidal salt water, straightaway:	1	min.	5	1-5

sec., Ethelda Bleibtrey, New York, April 17, Honolulu.

100 Yard Free Style, Bath, (20 yds.) 4 turns: 1 min. 6 1-5 sec., Ethelda Bleibtrey, New York, March 17, New York.

100 meter Free Style, open tidal salt water, straightaway:	1 min. 12 4-5

sec., Ethelda Bleibtrey, New York, July 10, New York.

220 Yard Free Style, open tidal salt water (100 yds.) 2 turns 2 min. 55 2-5 sec., Ethelda Bleibtrey, New York, July 24, New York.

220 Yard Free Style, bath (20 yds.) 10 turns:	2	min.	53 4-5 sec., Char-

lotte Boyle, New York, March 17, New York.

300 Meter Free Styley open tidal salt water (100 yds.) 3 turns: 4 min. 34 1-5 sec., Ethelda Bleibtrey, New York, July 14, New York.

440 Yard Free Styley open tidal salt water (100 yds.) 4 turns:	6	min.

21 3-5 sec., Ethelda Bleibtrey, New York, April 17, Honolulu.

SWIMMING ON BACK.

100 Yards Bath (20 yds.) 4 turns:	1	min. 17 3-5 sec., Ethelda Bleibtrey,

New York, March 13, New York.

ISO Yards Bath (25 yds.) 5 turns:	2	min. 10 1-5 sec., Ethelda Bleibtrey,

New York, Feb. 28, Jersey City, N. J.

100 Yards Bathy (25 yds.) 3 turns: 1 min. 22 sec., Sybil Bauer, Illinois A. C., Feb. 28, Detroit.

AVIATION RECORDS.

Altitude: 33,113 ft. Rudolph W. Schroeder, United States, Feb. 27.

Speed:	193	miles	per	hour,	Capt.	de	Romanet, France, Nov. 4.

Duration:	(Pilot	and	one)	24	hrs.	19 min. 7 sec., Lucien Boussontrot

and Jean Bernard, France, June 3 and 4.

Distance:	(Pilot	and	one)	1915	1-5	Kilometers, Lucien Boussontrot and

Jean Bernard, France, June 3 and 4.

AMERICAN CHAMPIONS I920.

Athletics: Teams:	Senior Outdoor: Chicago A.	A.; Senior	Indoors

New York A. C.; Junior Outdoor:	Boston,	A.	A. All around:

Brutus Hamilton, University of Missouri.

Basket Ball:	New York University.—Cross Country Running:	Junior,

J. Simmons, Syracuse University. Senior: Fred Faller, Dorchester Club, Boston.	Junior Team:	Syracuse	University.	Senior	Team:

Millrose A. A., New York.

Diving:	Men:	Clyde	Swenson,	Los	Angeles A. C. Women: Thelma

Payne, Multnomah A. C.

Fencing: Sherman	Hall, N. Y. A. C. foil	and	sabre.	Roy Dutcher,

N. Y. A. C. epee.

Gymnastics: All around: Joseph Oszy, N.	Y.	A. C.	Long	Horse:

Vj Winsjansen Norwegian T. & A. C. Horizontal Bar: Curt Rottman, New York Turn Verein. Parallel Bars: Joseph Oszy, N. Y. A. C. Side Horse: Charles M. Cremer, N. Y. A. C. Flying Rings: J. D. Gleason, Los Angeles A. C. Rope Climbing:	Louis Weissman,

Digitized by v^ooQle
437

g2 ht. Y. M. H. A. Indian Club Swinging:	Roy Dutchcr, N. Y*

A. C. Tumbling: Arthur Nugent, Newark, N. J.

Pentathlon:	BrutUs	Hamilton, University of Missouri.

Rowing: Jack Kelly, Philadelphia.

Swimming:	Men:	Norman Ross, Chicago A. A. Womens Ethelda

Bleibtrey, N. Y. Womens Swimming Assn.

Tug oj War: Aland Athletic Club, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Walking: Joseph Pearman, New York A. C.

Water Polo:	New	York Athletic Club Team.

ATHLETES IN COLLEGE.

Time was—and not so very long ago—when athletes in colleges and universities were the exception, rather than the rule. It was then only teams of picked men upon which the schools depended for their honors in sports. Now all this has changed, and there is reason to say that today the majority of men entering universities are athletes and proficient in one or another of the long list of physical exercises.

Direct evidence in support of this altered condition is found in the fact that out of every ten men in this year’s freshmen class at Harvard six are engaged in organized sport and the other four are taking some sort of athletic exercise.

According to figures given out by the department of physical education at Harvard, 362 of 603 freshmen, or almost exactly 60 per cent, are now in organized athletics. Of these, 146 are rowing, 70 are playing football, 61 are in track and field athletics, 17 in cross-country running, 20 in soccer, 7 in la crosse and 41 in fall baseball. These men report to their coaches regularly every day.

Twenty-three men, or about 4 per cent, get their exercise through equitation in connection with the optional military course given in the university.

The other 218, or about 36 per cent, of the freshman class are required to comply with the regulation established in 1919 by the university, which provides that all freshmen not taking part in organized sport or in equitation must exercise regularly three times a week. These men are divided into squads by the department of physical education and are now exercising in: Swimming, 45; tennis, 115; handball, 25; gymnasium classes, 16; squash, 17.

That which is true of Harvard is no doubt true also of all of the other great schools in the United States. Nothing in the history of America has had such a stimulating influence on athletics in colleges as the war. It was clearly proved in that conflict that athletes were the superior of non-athletes by so wide a margin as to be startling to military experts. Athletes every day proved themselves more keenly alert mentally—they were “quick thinkers’’; possessed of endurance so much greater than non-athletes as to make amazing comparative results; less liable to panic; ready and resourceful where initiative was demanded; were more cleanly of body and of higher moral qualities; displayed in a thousand ways qualifications for leadership and direction not found among those who had seldom or never engaged in competitive sports.

Digitized by ^ooQLe
The universities have been quick to realize that physical education is of equal importance with mental training, and, therefore, they Have set up requirements designed to make every student physically fit. The fact that boys who enter the universities, such as is indicated by the figures concerning Harvard, are already well grounded in their favorite forms of sport indicates that high schools and preparatory schools are also devoting much time and attention to the physical equipment of their scholars.

Only a few years ago, comparatively, sports in colleges and universities were regarded as a waste of energy, and the men who engaged in them were looked upon as frittering away their time and opportunities, and predictions respecting their future were anything but favorable. Nowadays a college student develops his body simultaneously with h't9 brain, and there is ample testimony to bear out the assertion that he is best fitted to enter upon the serious business of life after graduation who has given careful attention to his body as well as to his mind.—Salt Lake City Trikune.

FRANCE MAKES APPLICATION FOR OLYMPIC GAMES OF 1924.

The French Olympic Committee has sent an official request to the International Olympic Committee that the Olympic games of 1924 be held in Paris.

The intermediate Olympic games, to be held in 1922, have already been awarded to Brazil. They will be known as the South American Olympic Games. The next meeting of the International Olympic Committee will be held in Geneva in June, 1921, at which time applications for the games in 1924 will be passed on. In addition to Paris, formal applications have been received from Atlantic City, Chicago, Pasadena, Cal.; Rome and Christiania. Barcelona, Spain, is also in the field for the big event. Paris is probably planning to hold the games in the Pershing Stadium, the gift of the United States, through the A. E. F., to the people of France.

INDIA TO ENTER TENNIS TEAM IN DAVIS CUP COMPETITION

The committee of the All India Lawn Tennis Association has decided to enter a team to play for the Davis Cup in 1921. This will be the first time that India has formed a team to compete for the lawn tennis classic.

North Western University of Chicago is another one of those institutions that make sports compulsory for second-year students. Athletics will be compulsory for freshmen and sophomores, including men and women this year. New students will be urged to take up boxing and wrestling.

Digitized by Google
439

Editors need frank criticisms if they are to be of greatest use to subscribers. When we publish something you do not like we want you to write to us and to tell us why you don’t agree with us. If we do not publish things you would like to have tell us what you need, and we then will try to give it to you. What we need most is intelligent criticism, and you will confer a favor upon us by frankly telling us where and why we do not measure up to your expectations.

NATIONAL FESTIVAL OF THE AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION, CHICAGO, JUNE 29 to JULY 4, 1921.

The turners of Chicago are very busy making preparations for the coming tournament of the A. G. U. If events turn out as planned, the tournament should be as successful as the former festivals. We Chicagoans have some problems to solve, and we realize that it will require much hard work to live up to our promise, but, “put it over’’ we will. As in all preceeding affairs of this kind, the financial end requires the most careful consideration. We are, however, nearing the goal of financial success. A national festival reminds me, so far as money is concerned, of my Christmas shopping. It is easy to buy for the near and dear ones when the “how much’’ plays a minor role, but what an agony when you try to make the selection fit the purse. And so it is with the turn-fest. The various subcommittees have the most- wonderful ideas for displays, decorations, entertainments, etc., if only the financiers are able to secure the necessary cash.

The technical committee is well advanced in its preparations. The officers of this committee are:	Emil	E.	Groener, chairman; Dr. C. F.

Weege, vice-chairman; Theodore Gross, 1st Secretary; Rudolph Lauten-buch, 2nd Secretary. Alfred Wild has been selected as First Leader with Ernst Klafs and Joseph Kripner as assistants. It is gratifying to see most of the Chicago colleagues taking active part in the work. All the mass-exercises, i. e. Free Exercises for Men, Wand Exercises for Seniors and Indian Clubs for the Women, have been worked out and approved by the central committee in Indianapolis. They will be published in Mind and Body as soon as possible. The apparatus exercises are under consideration. According to the rules governing our meets, they will not be published until six weeks before the tournament. A committee has been appointed to arrange a cross country relay, the runners to carry a message from the executive council of the A. G. U. in Indianapolis to the Mayor of Chicago, Wm. Hale Thompson.

The outstanding new feature of this tournament is the competition for women. It seems to be the concensus of opinion that this addition is a step in the right direction and that it will be a very effective argument for universal physical education.	C.	F.	Weege, M. -D.

Digitized by Google
440

Resolution presented and adppted at the Western District Conference of the American Physical Education Association held at Berkeley, July 14th to 17th.

Whereas by the fact that physical training has come to serve a large - and important function, the preparation of teachers of physical education has become a critical problem,- and

Whereas the range, depth and the scientific soundness involved in the courses of study for training teachers of physical education are not now entirely clear, recognized and established beyond dispute, and that this administration is in consequence not free from factitious issues, therefore be it

Resolved that the Council of the organization be authorized to create a commission on standards of instruction in institutions for training teachers, which can be substantiated upon sound scientific grounds.

The committee appointed for the purpose of suggesting methods of creating the commission outlined in the above resolution recommends:

1. That the President of the Western District of the American Physical Education Association shall name an Executive Committee for the Commission to carry out the necessary organization;

2.	That the commission shall consist of representatives of all colleges, universities, normal schools, Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. training schools within the nine states of the district which may prove interested in the problems of professional training in physical education;

3. That this representative shall, if so desired, consist of three appointees from each institution, those appointees preferably representing the administrative, the health and physical education phases;

4.	That each State Board of Health and each State Board of Education be invited to name representatives;

5.	That each group of representatives have one vote in determining apy official action taken in the name of the Commission;

6.	That the Executive Committee of the Commission shall constitute its promoting and centralizing agency.

At the Physical Education Section of the twenty-fifth annual convention of the Utah Education Association the following program was presented:

The Healthy Citizen—

a.	The Physical Examination and Follow-up Work—Dr. E. G.

Gowans.

b.	Physical Activities for Health—Dr. J. Leo Marshall.

The Moral Citizen—

a.	Standards and Their Fixing Through Group Athletics—Otto Romney, East High School.

b.	Moral Values and Leisure Time— Arthur L. Beeley, Executive Secretary Social Welfare Committee.

Demonstration (brief) or a Participation.

About three hundred and fifty were in attendance. Resolutions were passed endorsing the Fess-Capper Bill and petitions were signed and forwarded to the four Utah representatives in Congress.

Mrs. Sophia Reed of Ogden was elected president of the section for the
441

coming year. Mrs. Reed is the Supervisor of Physical Education in the public schools of Ogden. Dr. H. L. Marshall of the University of Utah was elected president of the Utah Physical Education Society for the year 1921. Miss Charlotte Stewart, East High School Salt Lake City, is the Vice-President and Miss Ann Nebecker of the Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, is the new secretary.

HOTEL RATES FOR THE CONVENTION OF THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION

ASSOCIATION.

BUFFALO, N. V., MARCH I7,l8, I9, I92I.

HOTEL STATLER, WASHINGTON AND SWAN STS. HEADQUARTERS. (450 Rooms).

Single Rooms.

$3.00 with shower (single bed for one). $4.00 to $6.00 with tub and shower, (double bed for one).

Double Rooms.

$5.00 with shower, double bed for two. $6.00, $6.50, $7.00, $8.o« with tub and shower bath, (double bed for two).

HOTEL LAFAYETTE, WASHINGTON ST., AND LAFAYETTE SQUARE. (4OO Rooms).

Single Rooms.

$3.00 without bath. $3.50 with shower. $4.00—$5.00 with tub bath. Double Rooms.

$4.50 without bath. $5.50 with shower. $6.00—>7.50 with tub bath. The $5.00 single rooms and the $7.50 double rooms are outside rooms; the others are on the court.

HOTEL IROQUOIS, MAIN AND EAGLE STREETS. (4OO Rooms).

Single Rooms.

$2.50—$3.50 without bath. $4.00 with bath.

Double Rooms.

$5.00 without bath. $6.50—$8.00 with bath.

HOTEL LENOX, NORTH STREET NEAR DELAWARE AVE. (25O Rooms.)

Single Rooms.

$2.50—$3.00 without bath. £3.5o—$4.00 with bath.

Double Rooms.

$3.50—>5.00 without bath. $6.00—$7.00 with bath.

HOTEL TOURAINE, DELEWARE AVENUE NEAR CHIPPEWA ST. (4OO R*Oms).

Single Rooms.

$2.00 without bath. $3.00—$3.50 with bath.

Double Rooms.

{4.50 sharing bath between two rooms. $6.00—$7.00 with bath.

HOTEL GENESEE, MAIN AND GENESEE STREETS. (150 Rooms).

Single Rooms.

$2.00 without bath. $3.00 with bath.

Double Rooms.

$4.00 without bath. $5.00—$7.00 with bath.

HOTEL BROEZEL, SENECA AND WELLS STREETS. (150 Rooms).

Single Rooms.

$2.00—$2.50 without bath. $3.00 with bath.

Double Rooms.

$4.00—$j.oo without bath. $6.oo with bath.

A list of smaller hotels will be given next month.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
Gymnasium and playgrount^j

FRED FOERTSCH, Pittsburg, Pa. -L/

POLKA COUPLE DANCE.

BY NELLA. L. MARSHALL, THOUSAND ISLAND PARK, N. Y.

Music — Any Polka.

For fourth grade girls.

Formation:	Column	of front couples in a circle formation, inner

hands grasped shoulder high, outer hands on hips.

All Begin With Outer Foot.

a)	Polka outer and inner foot and repeat, (8 counts)............ 4 M.

b)	Four glides (gallops) sideward in line of direction, partners facing each other, then repeat same four glides in line of direction but with inner foot, partners now back to back,

(8 counts) .................................................. 4 M-

c)	Partners face each other, release grasp and step courtesy

sideward toward and away from line of direction with hands on hips, (4 counts); then grasp right hands and mill wheel right in 4 step hops, (4 counts) ...................... 4 M.

d)	Repeat (c) but instead of mill wheel outside partner moves

in line of direction toward new partner in 2 step hops, inside partner executes two step hops in place........... 4 M.

Total ...............................................16	M.

DUMB-BELL DRILL.

Any March Music.

Two counts to each movement.

Exercise I.

a)	Raise arms sideward -1-2, raise arms upward - 3 - 4, lower arms forward - 5 - 6, lower arfns - 7 - 8.

b)	Repeat A) three times.

Exercise II.

a)	Repeat exercise 1 - 8 counts.

b)	Repeat a) with the sequence of movements reversed (begining with forward).

c)	Repeat a) - b).

Exercise III. Dumbells on hips.

a)	Lunge left sideward - 1, pause - 3 - 4, replace left foot -5, pause - 6 - 8, repeat left - 9 - 16.

b)	As a) but right.

Exercise IV.

a)	Lunge left sideward and place hands on shoulders -1-2, turn head right and straighten right arm sideward -3 -4, return head and replace right hand - 5 - 6, replace left foot and lower arms

- 7 - 8.

h) Repeat a) right, left and right.

Digitized by (^.ooQte
448

Exercise V.

a)	Lunge left forward and raise arms forward -1-2, raise left arm upward and lower right arm downward - 3 - 4, reverse arm movements - 5 - 6, replace left foot and lower arms, - 7 - 8.

b)	Repeat a) right, left and right.

Exercise VI.

a)	Strike dumbells over head -1-2, strike dumbbells under the raised left knee - 3 - 4, strike over head 5-6, lower arms 7-8.

b)	Repeat A) striking under right knee.

c)	Repeat a) - b).

Exercise VII.

a)	Kneel left and hands on shoulders place - 1 - 2, inhale with straightening arms sideward - 3 - 4, exhale and replace hands on shoulders - 5 - 6, straighten to a stand and lower arms - 7 - 8.

b)	Repeat a) right, left and right.

DUMB BELL QUADRILLE.

BY ADALAIDE A. QUINN, PHILADELPHIA, PA.

Music:	“Dance	of	the	Brownies” by Effie Kamman.

Formation:	Four	or	more front ranks in open order.

Introduction

Open ranks and pause ...................................... 4	M.

group 1.

Exercise /.

a)	Lunge left forward and place hands on hips -1-2, files No. 1 & 4 thrust arms sideward while files No. 2 & 3 thrust

arms upward - 3-4, reverse and return movements.. - 5-8.	2	M.

b) Repeat a) the files executing the opposite movements.... 2 M.

c) Repeat a) - b) ...........................................  4	M.

Total ................................................. 8	M.

Exercise 2.

a) Files No. 1 & 4 lunge obliquely fore-outward while files No. 2 & 3 lunge obliquely fore-inward with bending arms for thrust - 1-2, all thrust arms sideward - 3-4, reverse and re-

turn movements - 5-8 ................................. 2	M.

b) Repeat a) the files executing the opposite exercise....... 2	M.

c) Repeat a) - b) ........................................    4	M.

Total ................................................ 8	M.

Dance Sequence /.

Hands on hips.

a)	Files No. 1 & 2 schottische right and left, files No. 3 & 4

schottische left and right................................ 2	M.

b)	All execute 8 marching steps forward ..................... 2	M.

c)	Repeat schottische steps sideward	as in a) ............... 2	M.

d)	All 8 marching steps backward ............................ 2	M.

Total ................................................ 8	M.

Digitized by CjOOQle
444

Dance Sequence 2.

a)	Slow	step	courtesy left and right......................... 2	M.

b)	Four	step	swing-hops in place with	a	whole turn left..... 2	Nf.

c)	Schottische left and right obliquely	forward ............... 2	M.

d)	Four	step	swing-hops backward ............................ 2	M.

Total ................................................ 8	M.

Note:	On	the	last	two	counts	step	right	backward,	close	left	to

right and lower arms.

CROUP II.

Exercise i.

a) Files i & 2 and files 3 & 4 face each other and step left forward with placing hands on hips i-i, raise left foot backward and straighten arms obliquely fore-upward 3-4,

reverse and return movements 5-8 .................... 2	M.

b)	As a) files 2 & 3 toward each other and files 1 & 4 out

ward ................................................ 2	M.

c)	Repeat a) - b) ...................................... 4	M.

Total .............................................. 8	M.

Exercise 2.

a)	Stride left sideward and raise arms sideward 1-2, cross right

arm over left in front of chest 3-4, reverse and return movements 5-8 .......................................... 2	M.

b)	Repeat right, left and right ........................... 6	M.

Total .............................................. 8	M.

Exercise 3.

a)	Lunge left sideward and raise arms fore-upward 1-2, change

knee bending and lower arms sideward 2-4, reverse and return movements 5-8 ..................................... 2	M.

b)	Repeat right, left and right............................ 6	M.

Total ................................................. 8	M.

Exercise 4.

a) As exercise 1 above beginning with files 2 & 3 working

toward each other while files 1 & 4 work outward. Total. . . 8 M.

Note:	Finish	with	files	1	and	2	and	files	3	and	4	facing	each	other

with hands on hips.

GROUP III.

Dance Sequence /.

a)	All execute schottische left and right sideward.......... 2	M.,

b)	Schottische left and right obliquely forward with a half turn

left, the members of the files passing each other right.. 2 Nf.

c)	Repeat a) - b) .......................................... 4	M.

Total ................................................. 8	M.

Note:	All	face	to	the	front	on	the	last	count.

Dance Sequence 2.

a) Slow step couresy left and right sideward ................... 2 Nf.

b) Four step swing-hops in place with a whole turn left.......... 2 M.

Digitized by ^ooQle
445

c)	Schottische left and right obliquely forward ............... 2	M.

d)	Four step swing-hops backward .............................. 2	M.

Total .................................................. 8	M.

Bance Sequence j.

a)	Schottische left	and	right	sideward ........................ 2	M.

b)	Step left sideward and point right forward 1-4, repeat the

same right 5-8	........................................   2	M.

c)	Schottische left	and	right	sideward ........................ 2	M.

d)	Files 1. and 4 march in place 4 steps while files 2 and 3 execute 2 closing steps outward 1-4, then the outer files bow toward the inner files while the inner files courtesy toward

the outer files 5-8 ........................................ 2	M.

Total ............................................... 8	M.

PLAN OF INFORMAL GYMNASTICS.

For First and Second Grades With Outline for February.

BY GERTRUDE LEFLER BRAMAN, QUEENS VILLAGE, NEW YORK.

FIRST GRADE.

Month of Review.

Review and polish up all weak spots of previous months. Take separate mimetic exercises and make rhythmic plays to familiar songs. If children have had the advantage of kindergarten training the kindergarten songs “can’t be beat.”

Let children work out story gymnastics following stories and reading on George Washington’s Cherry Tree, Lincoln’s Home, Valentines.

A very pretty game may be played taking the “Toyman’s Shop” chorus “Little Travelers” from the “Holiday Book” by Poulson.

Children form a circle, two are chosen to visit Toyman’s Shop, the circle sings while they are deciding what Toy to represent, or activity, such as skipping or a mimetic exercise. As the two children return the circle stops marching, opens a space and sings “Welcome Little Travelers.” At the end of this the two children act out their activity, the circle imitates, the teacher plays, sings or hums. It is difficult to do much singing during a spirited act. If engine is acted the children say “Chu-chu” in rhythm, - perfect time is kept but not uniformity of motion. This game is charming, active and well loved.

George Washington’s Cherry Tree.

1.	Pull on sweater. Take several pulls to get sweater over head. Then push arms up into sleeves. Finally give two or three pulls to get it from shoulders down.

2. Run out with hatchet over shoulder. Each two rows around mc row of desks. Two chalk marks are drawn on floor of room to represent brook. As they come to it they jump over.

3.	Chop down cherry tree.

4. Run home. Each two rows around one row of desks. This

Digitized by
446

time come to a log crossing the brook and have to walk very carefully over it. (Arms extended at sides.)

5.	Tired. Breathing.

SECOND GRADE.

Month of Review.

“Little Travellers” from 1st grade. Story gymnastics.

Valentine’s Day.

One player in each row is chosen to receive the valentines and sits on the front desk. Rest of players stand in aisles.

1.	Running to the house where valentines are to be dropped. Two rows around one row of desks.

2.	Players reach up and drop valentines into letter box high upon the door.

3.	Reach up high with both hands and pull the bell. Teacher may ring a bell or say “Ding.”

4.	Players outside stoop way down to hide, while those inside jump •down, pick up valentines and look down aisles to see if they can see anyone. Run to another house and hang valentines.

5.	Players outside warm their hands by holding them straight out from shoulders and slapping them across the chest making each arm hit rhe opposite shoulder.

6.	Run home very softly on tiptoes.

7.	Take in long breaths of fresh air, raising the arms straight from the sides to shoulder height as breath is taken in, lowering them as breath goes out.

Games.

Marching to Jerusalem.

Tag the Wall Relay.

Teacher and Class.

Eraser Relay.

Rhythmic Work From Mother Goose Melodies.

1.	Little Bo Peep has Lost her Sheep. (3 skips forward. R. L. R. and feet together.

2.	And can’t tell where to find them. (Shake heads R. L. R. L.)

3.	Leave them alone and they’ll come home (3 skips back to place and face partners.)

4.	Wagging their tails behind them (Nod heads up and down to partners 3 times on last note, bow to partners.)

5.	Second Verse Repeat 1-4.

6.	Third verse, Sixteen skips.

Mimetic Exercises.

Picking up stones:	Down	1, Up and throw to left 2, Down 3, Up

and throw to right 4.

Driving stakes. With a jump, feet sidewards, place. Swing hammer back of L. shoulder, over head, and down.

Climbing ladder. Raise L. arm high, grasping side of ladder; bend R. arm and R. knee; change both hands and feet on command.

HYGIENE.

"Care of skin.

Bath tub nights.

Rub skin thoroughly, remove dust and perspiration from pores.

Digitized by i^ooQle
447

Cold splash after bath.

Healthy skin, attractive appearance.

Bowels; regular habits; good health; good school work.

Newark Normal School for Physical Education and Hygiene Offers

A TWO YEAR NORMAL COURSE in the Theory and Practice of Phyvicml Education and Hygiene.

Mid-year High School graduates may enter February 1st.

For catalogue and particulars write to

HENRY PANZER, Director 162-156 William Street, Newark, New Jersey

PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS’ BUREAU

or THE

AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

415-419 E. Michigan St., INDIANAPOLIS, IND. fOMflTINT TEACHERS OP PHYSICAL TRAINING RECOMMENDED TO SCHOOL OFFICERS AND ASSOCIATIONS FREE OF CHARGE neghtwrinn is restricted to graduates of the Normal School of Gymnastic*, and of the Nenaal College of the American Gymnastic Union

Harvard University

COURSES IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION

GRADUATE SCHOOL OF EDUCATION. Properly qualified students, both men, and women, may become candidates for the degree of Master of Education (Ed. M.) on a program of study and training in the field of Physical Education. The minimum peiiod of residence and study is one academic year. The second year of the school will begin in September 1921.

SUMMER SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION. Thirty-fifth session, July 6 to August 10. Graded Couises in the theory and practice of Physical Education. Excellent equipment. Special courses in the coaching of football, base ball, basket ball, and track athletics.

Qualified students who wish to become candidates for the degree of Master of Education (Ed. M.) in the Graduate School of Education may receive credit for Physical Education courses satisfactorily completed in the Summer School.

For further information and catalogue address:

WILLIAM H. GEER, Director, Physical Education

Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

Digitized by Google
American College of Physical Education

Offers s thorough two year normal course preparing high school graduates to become Physical Directors and Playground Supervisors. Special course leading to degree of Bachelor of Physical Education.

Large college building with complete equipment, including gymnasium, dormitory for women, auditorium, swimming pool, tennis courts, etc. Next regular term opens September 23, 1920. Students may also enter at the beginning of second semester, February 1 of each year. Summer session of six weeks for Physical Directors and public school teachers, July 1—Aug. 9.

Co-educational Accredited Graduate-placing Bureau

Full information, including interesting booklet of views will be mailed free upon request.

American College of Physical Education

Dept. 37	4200	Grand	Boulevard,	Chicago

THE CHICAGO NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

FOR WOMEN ONLY	ESTABLISHED 1903

FRANCES MUSSELMAN, Principal TWO YEAR NORMAL COURSE—REGISTRATION SEPTEMBER 25 and FEBRUARY 2 Accredited by State Department of Public Instruction. Theoretical and practical training In all branches of physical education, preparing young women to become Directors of Physical Education in Public and Private Schools, CoUeges and Universities, Young Womens* Christian Associations and Playgrounds. A strong faculty of teachers with a national reputation. Hundreds of our graduates are holding responsible positions in the best institutions of the country. Exceptionally fine dormitory for non resident students.

SIX WEEKS SUMMER TERM for 1921 opens JUNE 27 SUMMER CAMP IN WISCONSIN For catalogs address Registrar, 430 S. Wabash Are., Chicago.

Bernard Mandl

MANUFACTURER OF

MEN’S, YOUTH’S, BOY’S AND LADIES'

GYMNASIUM CLOTHING

and Dealer In Gymnasium Apparatus, Theatrical Tights, and all kinds of

SPORTING GOODS.

CATALOGS FREE ON APPLICATION.

210-212 W. Madison St. CHICAGO, ILL.

NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS

THE SUMMER SCHOOL BY THE SEA.

A Now Idoa in Summer Schools. Come to our summer session, July 28 to August 80. Work hi an airy summer gymnasium. Play tennis, go boating and canoeing for recreation. Take a dip in the cool waters of Long Island Sound. Live in the summer dormitory, built on a high bluff overlooking the Sound. Rest on comfortable piaaaaa, stroll on the 250 aero farm of the school, which will furnish you with fresh milk, eggs and vegetables every day. Write for circular.

E. H. ARNOLD, M. D.,Director.	I486 Chapel St., NEW HAVEN,	CONN.