Vol. 6.	APRIL, 1899.	No. 62
		

Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, Chicago normal schooC, Chicago, III.

• WM.STECHER, Sec’y. of the Technical Committee of the N. A. Gymnastic Union, cor. 8rd a Chestnut 8t'8, St.L0UI8,M0. F. PFISTER, M. D., managing editor, 7eo third 8t., Milwaukee Wis.

Value of a Healthy Body to a Healthy Mind.*

By JOSEPH EASTMAN, M. D., LL. D., Indianapolis, Ind.

IT is a serious question whether the advancing civilization with its physical deterioration has added to or detracted from the the sum total of human happiness. Only a lew years ago the proportion of insane to the sane in the State was 1 to 1500. Dr. Rogers of the Logansport asylum, in a plea for enlarging the capacity of that institution, said that we must provide accommodations for one insane person out of every 650 inhabitants. Surely the time may come, predicted by Oliver Wendell Holmes, when the sane will have to occupy the asylums to protect themselves from the insane.

It is quite customary for parents to move to towns and cities to educate their children—educate them in what ? and for what ? and what is education anyhow? If it is to strengthen the mind and weaken the body, to stuff them with knowledge with no wisdom to apply it, I object; if to dicker off health for book knowledge, I protest. If it is to develop the physical as well as the mental, as is suggested by the modern gymnasium in connection with college ; if it is to teach the simpler modes of eating, sleeping, and exercise of our ancestors, the art of living according to nature’s laws ; if it is to fill the mind with such principles as make the coming generation healthier and therefore happier, happier and therefore healthier, to develop brawn as well as brain, I approve.

A cultivation of that genius of industry which in the race of life comes out far ahead of every other type of genius is much to be desired.

* A lecture delivered at Franklin College, /Franklin, Ind

Digitized by C-ooQle
—26-

A healthy body is essential to a healthy mind. A healthy body without a healthy, pure, and happy mind is unthinkable. Matthews, in his little book entitled, “Getting On in the World,” remarks that in all departments of business and trades, the race of Jife is being so hotly contested, that if one stops to tie his shoe-strings he will be run over.

The men who talk to juries must delve deeply into the statutes and look up all the amended laws, and with the most profound research accumulate all possible evidence in favor of their client, and then perhaps speak for hours to convince the jury of the justice of their cause. With the doctor it is such a labor of love that he must not think of self. The merchant and the tradesman are no exception to this rule. The facts are that the laws made for the benefit of the laboring class are intended to catch votes, do not even favor the women and do not touch a larger number of the toilers of earth—the real working classes.

The man who does manual labor is presumed to be physically strong. The young man who leaves the plow or the anvil for the store or the profession, thinking he will get an easier job by doing brain work, wdll realize his mistake sooner rather than later. Behold the heads of our great railroad systems, of our great manufacturing establishments, of our great educational institutions, the representatives of this republic’s wealth and brain—they are toilers and regard it • as one of their chief virtues to be numbered among earth’s great laborers !

Labor is a pleasurable law in all that deserves the name of real pleasure, all that appeals to man’s nobler feelings, and obtains the endorsement of his self-respect ; all that adorns the brow of true manhood springs from the activitv of human life. Man is so constituted that he attains the acme of pleasure, not in physical action alone, as in the brute creation, not in idleness and ease; but in mental activity, and the more intense the action the more intense the pleasure. Too much rest is rust. To the successful man rest is a species of restless desire to be doing something. The object of every one’s existence should be to unfold and perfect his own individuality and to improve the race. A strong healthy organization is the first essential to success. Upon this healthy organization depend intelligence, beauty, and amiability ; indeed, there can be no strength of body or talent of mind that ill health will not undermine. Self-knowledge must include the body as well as the mind, whether we take the view of the theologian, and think of the heart and the soul as synonomous, or the idea of the physiologist, that the heart is a mere pump for the blood. In a body that is not well balanced the mind soon becomes feeble and is lost.

Health is accord between all the organs and functions of the body and mind. Disease is discord between organs and functions.

The trinity of health may be summarized: 1. A proper quantity of well-digested and assimilated food to make good blood. 2. An ample amount of exercise (physical movements) to keep the blood in circulation. 3. Full and complete inspiration and expiration to supply oxygen and to carry off carbonic acid.

With regard to the first, it might be well to have in every restaurant

Digitized by CjOOQle
-27-

and dining-room the motto, “Refreshments for Man and Beast.” It was intended that man should be neither herbivorous nor carnivorous, but omnivorous, using a variety of food. The dispositions and propensities of man and beast can be determined to a certain extent by noting the kind of food on which they live. There are as many people to-day digging their graves with their teeth as there are drowning their souls in alcohol.

The non-eliminated products of nitrogenous food undergoing crystallization cause disease of the blood-vessels and many a death from apoplexy. Indigestion is spoken of as an American disease. This disease may be attributed in a large measure to the food being swallowed too rapidly ; the stomach not being given time to half do its work of digestion. With bad digestion all manner of poisonous ptomains are produced, the absorption of which not only impairs the blood-making process, but poisons the citadels of life, rendering the individual mentally and physically unfit for the duties nature had intended him to perform.

The Universities of Cambridge and Oxford, of Harvard, Yale and Princeton, have graduated many a one who did not even know what to eat or how to eat it. As a matter of fact it is more important to know what food to eat and how to eat it; how that food digests, is transformed into blood ; how that blood flows ; something of the molecular and atomic changes upon which secretion and excretion depend, and by which the phenomena of life are continued, than to be able to parse a Greek sentence, or know how to trace the constellations in the heavens or to find the whereabouts of an ursa major or an ursa minor.

Barring the possibilities of getting tuberculosis from tubercular cows, milk as an article of diet has two very strong recommendations: 1. It contains all the different constituent elements which go to make up each and every tissue of the body. It especially provides lecithin to feed the famishing nerve-cells. We all lived on it for a time when we came to this country, and then we had dimpled cheeks and dimpled fingers. There is a good deal of jesting about the Bostonian and New Englander living on baked beans, but beans, next to milk, come nearest to nourishing each and every part of the entire human system, and no one part in particular more than another. The pills which have been taken to relieve conditions resulting from lack of proper diet and exercise, would, if showered from the skies, maintain a hailstorm over this country for days.

We view with admiration the wonderful inventive genius displayed in the engine, as it faces a thousand miles of rails, with nerves of steel, with blood of steam, and breath of fire. The combustion of coal originates the propelling force. So the baked beans, mush and milk, “johnnv-cake,” hominy and apple-sauce in New England stomachs, producing healthy physical organizations, strong and inventive intellect, are in some degree to be credited with the continent being cobwebbed with railroads, running over bridges, tunneling mountains, and keeping up with enterprises, admired and applauded by the civilized world.

Healthy bodies and healthy minds can not exist without good sewerage. “If disease is bred from bad drainage and defective sewerage

Digitized by CjOOQle
—28—

from without the body, how much more from bad drainage and defective -sewerage from within the body. Excretions retained in the body ferment and decompose. The pestilential gases thus generated dissolve nerve-centers and paralyze the action of vital organs. Here cause and effect aid and abet each other.” Regular and unconditional attention and obedience to nature’s demands should be given with more fidelity than a business man heeds a notice that his paper is to be protested in the bank. For in the latter instance creditors near and far would rush in and destroy his financial hopes, whereas in the former case, a liver, a stomach, a heart, a pair of lungs, or other viscera, having labored long and faithfully to ward off the approach of disease, subsisting meantime on blood poor in albumin and red corpuscles, are compelled to go into pathologic bankruptcy when blood from which bile, gastric juice, and lymph are to be formed comes to their respective laboratories so loaded with poison absorbed from the excreta.

PHYSICAL MOVEMENTS TO CIRCULATE BLOOD.

Young men are too prone to succumb to that “tired feeling” often induced by that overindulgence in nitrogen* us food, such as meats, and avoid every possible physical exertion which ihey so much need. They will ride when they should w^k. Some will take more exercise silting in a chair than others will walking, as in the latter there is no vim and ' igor in their movements. Health must be earned; it can not be bought. I say this in contradiction to the wonderful promises made by the patent-medicine venders, whose disgusting advertisements in our daily press, setting forth in flaming flambeaus of felicitous fiction the testimony and portraits of distinguished people, who claim to have been benefited by wrapping themselves around a few doses of “Gripan’s Gabules,” “Giddy Stinkham’s Vegetab’e Compound,” “Dr. Billiam’s Pale Pills for Pink People,’ and “Nervy Euras Greens for Green People,” and other forms of “lalyke-dope” ad nauseam.

If they ride a bicycle it does not give circulation equal to that which e ne could produce by a brisk walk. They ride through the country as fast as a coyote, over the prairie, and on returning describe what beauties of nature they have seen about as well. The mind is so cccupi* d in gu ding the wheel, there is little mental relaxation. Examination of sold ers in New York disclosed the fact that bicycle riders had weak hearts, necessitating the rejectir n of a considerable percentage of applicants for enlistment. Frank Hamilton said, “The best thing for the inside of a man is the outside of a horse.7 The “bred feeling” which so many young men have makes it stem too great an undertaking to even climb on a horse’s back. Physicians will tell you that to cure an old, chronic case of dyspepsia, as a job, is no “walk away.” I insist, however, that some of the worst cases of indigestion can be “walked away.77 The increasing demand for treatment by massage, Swedish movements, physical culture, in our sanatoriums, suggests the thought that much of this might have been prevented had the individual kept his blood in proper circulation by muscular activity.

With regard to the third p’oposition, that the blood must be purified by free chest-expans.on, let me say that any man’s capacity for phys cal and mental endurance is in direct proportion to his chest capacity. The college student too often becomes full-chested in the back, where his projecting shoulder-blades suggest the sprouting cf angel wing?, and a tendency toward

Digitized by

Google
-29-

the spirit land. The man who can go without several meals in succession, lose two or three nights’ sleep, do two or three day’s work in one, mental and physical, is the man who has swept the cobwebs out of the basements and garrets of his lungs with good full breathing. There are many young men in the cities who never draw a full breath from one year s end to the other; not even as much as a sigh when the bicycle dealer demands payment on that wheel, or the landlady insists that his bf ard-bill is overdue.

The nervous system must be renewed by sleep. Courage versus cowardice is on the bulletin-board of life. The heart to dare, the head and hand to do, are soon exhausted without nature’s sweet restorer, balmy sleep. The apostle Peter was cold, had lost sleep, and lost courage when he denied his master. Given Peter a night’s rest, a good breakfast, and a cup of good coffee, the cock might have been crowing on to this time, with Peter standing up and swearing that the lowly Nazarene was a friend and he would never go back on him.

As I return from my professional outings over the State, I find the railroad station and the streets till after midnight thronged with young men. They are neither improving their bodies nor their minds. They are not fitting themselves for the responsible positions of life, in professions, business, or trades. They are often teeming out of low theaters, where what little brains they have left is entangled in that flimsy spider-web, that fantasm of delusion which surrounds the ankles of the ballet dancer. This, with the horrible yellow-backed literature, develops the sensual, impairs the physical, and dethrones the intellectual. They say they are not sleepy. Why should they be ? They have partaken of a hearty supper containing an excess of meats, •the brain stimulated with a cup of coffee, and still further stimulated and poisoned by smoking a cigarette or cigar. When I saw my friend, Professor Allen of Philadelphia, then past .50 years of age, smoking a cigar after his evening meal, knowing he was a great physiologist, I asked him why at that age he began smoking. He replied that up to 40 years of age the brain was developing and growing, that smoking during that time impaired its functional activity and stunted* its growth that after 50 years its soothing effect put on the brakes, so to speak, and lessened the functional activity of the brain. With this idea, what a sad spectacle it is to see young men so lacking in intellectual force that they are scarcely self-supporting still adding to their intel ectual vagrancy with the poison of nicotin.

Our bodies contain thousands of nerve-cells, and each one is a citadel of life. The cell has an affinity by which it attracts from the passing bloodstream, and stores away within itself, a sufficient amount of nutrition to maintain accord between all the organs and functions of the healthy body. With every thought, emotion, and effort we expend a certain amount of vital force. Consequently, while awake we are constantly using up this energy, while asleep or in a passive state we are left to nature’s own law of action, and it is a natural law. While in a normal condition the nerves attract and draw vital force and are constantly accumulating this vital energy around their nerve-centers, we are vitalized and refreshed during sleep, or in a pa sive state we are preserving what is already accumulated. Birth, development, maturity, and death is the simple story of every animated thing. During the growth and development of the young man’s body at least eight hours* sleep is necessary, and it should be started at 9 p. m. The sleep train should be started promptly on time and have the right of way. Convince me what a young man eats and drinks, how he spends his evenings and what books he reads, and I will

Digitized by <^.ooQle
—30—

convince you what music, if any, he will ultimately make m the grand orchestra of life. Holmes says the truest lives are those cut rose-di'mond fashion, with many facets, answering to the many plain aspects of the world about them. Society is constantly trying to grind these diamonds to a common flat surface. It takes strong manhood to maintain originality and individuality, despite alluring fickle fancies of city life.

An absolutely healthy body can not'exist without an absolutely healthful and happy mind. The possession of a healthy, happy mind will depend less upon the head you have on you than the heart you have m you.

A happy mind is essential to a healthy body. Solomon says in his Book of Proverbs, “A merry heart doeth good like a medicine.” It is easier for some people to be happy than it is for others. A good digestion is conducive to a happy mind. A hippy mind is one of the most potent agents in a good digestion. Some one has said, ‘‘Whether life is worth living depends upon the liver.” This is true of that organ under the ribs on the right si ie, with five lobes and five ligaments and five fissures, and weighing nearly five pounds; it is particularly true of the life of the liver. I picked up the other day a prescription for happiness, which reads as follows: ‘‘Do not keep the alabaster boxes of your love and tenderness sealed up until your friends are dead. Fill their lives with sweetness. Speak approving, cheering words while their ears can hear them, and while their hearts can be thrilled and made happier by them ; the kind things you mean to say when they are gone, say before they go. The flowers you mean to send for their coffins send to brighten and sweeten their homes before they leave them. If my friends have alabaster boxes laid away, full of fragrant perfumes of sympathy and affection, which they intend to break over my dead body, I would rather they would bring them out in my weary and troubled hours, and open them, that I may be refreshed and cheered by them while I need them. I would rather have a plain coffin without a flower, a funeral without an eulogy, than a life without the sweetness of Jove and sympathy. Let us learn to anoint our friends beforehand for their burial. Post-mortem kindness does not cheer the burdened spirit. Flowers on the coffin cast no fragrance backward over the weary way.” Every 1 fe has its dark days and its darker hours. If we would have others to make and put sunshine into our hearts and lives we must think of some one else whose lives we can make happier by word or deed. It is really the best source of happiness. Happiness consists in making others happy:

The microbe trembles, when he sees

A body cheerful and at ease.

I can never believe the man who sits on the fence and wants everything done some other way is healthy in body and mind. If you look for dirt you are sure to find it. Human life is by no means immaculate. But none the less the world is full of purity, of innocent childhood, glorious womanhood, and noble manhood.

Who would have the orchestra of life made up entirely of piccolo or bass drums? Variety is life, monotony death, to the human soul. If you want the job of making everybody do as they ought, the job is open, with a placard on the door of the shop, “Help Wanted.” If you would raise yourselves above the common level of mankind, you must seek for virtues and not for vices in your fellow men. If you would poison the mind and body, make yourselves miserable and all around you miserable, rake up the vie* s and

Digitized by CjOOQte
-31-

shortcomings of all your associates and neighbors. As your life work molds your thinking, and as your thinking molds youi countenance, by the time you are 40 you will wear the countenance of a pessimist, critic, and hypocrite, and be shunned by all those who love humanity, and are seeking by love to raise their fellow men to a higher and happier plane.

Brave men and women are healthy, cowards are sickly. The coward whose mind is in a dungeon of fear and apprehension, suspicious of everybody, suffers death a thousand times. Heroes never taste death but once. The world ai last admires the strong character, one who, tested in the crucible of • truth, comes out a pitce of crystallized manhood:

Fit for the highest or the lowliest lot,

Self-poised, imperial, yet of gentlest ways ;

At home alike in palace or in cot;

True to his aim, though others blame or praise.

See how the world to-day applauds that combination of healthy mind and healthy body, that vigorous body, that human dynamo, Roosevelt. What a record to be proud of is being shown in the regent war by General Miles, N general-in-chief of the army, who left mercantile pursuits in Poston, joined the army in 1861, and at 25 years of age commanded 25,000 men. These men are good illustrations of what a combined healthy body and healthy mind can accomplish.

Some years ago I had the pleasure of going from Munich in Bavaria to the great passion play of Ober-Ammergau. It was necessary to ^o the day before in order to be there in the early morn at the beginn ng of the services. The thing which impresses every visitor is the absolute absence of the artificial modes of life of our cities. Though the village has been there for hundreds of years, the same simple modes of living have remained unchanged. On retiring for the night I climbed up a ladder to a nice clean bed in the attic of the little home. In the morning I sat at the table and noted the simple and healthful food. I sat all day and watched the play, the trial, the crucifixion, and resurrection of the Savior: some forty voung ladies upon the stage at one time, singing, their cheeks aglow with the banners of health and beauty ; their voices pouring forth music which fairly echoed from tlie surrounding snow-covered Alpine peaks. When thinking of this simplicity of life 1 could not help marking the contrast with the dtteiioration of health and morals in the cities, London, Berlin, Vienna, and Muni h, through which I had just passed.

In this village they still cling to natural modes of living, to nature and to nature s laws. On trees and fence-corners, along the winding way to the village, on the s reet-corners, and on the higher mountain peaks, y< u can see their Roman crucifix. While, nominally, Bavaria has a king, Germany an emperor, the inhabitants of this village, in the simplicity and purity of their lives, believe that God is king of kings and consequently their king

We look with wonder and admiration upon the great monument in our circle. We see with absorbing interest how the sculptor's chisel has made the cold, inanimate marble almost to smile with animation. We sometimes grow envious of the painter’s art, by which the dull canvas is made to glow with human life; but what high art can paint the beautiful pigment of the blood, as ' shown in the blush of beauty, in the crimson of shame, and in the pallor of fear. The gorgeous hues of autumn, the golden glories which the Sun Queen gathers about her as she sinks to rest beneath the western horizon, give no tint of beauty comparable with the ruddy cheek and ruby lip of nealth.

Digitized by t^ooQle
-32-

BICYCLE SADDLES.

Injuries Produced Thereby and Their Rational Remedy.

By JOHN L. SHORT, M. D., Rolla, Mo.

WHILE my association with other cyclists has been limited, it is sufficient, when connected with my medical practice, to enable me to form an opinion as to some of the benefits and ills produced by the wheel. That much benefit is to be derived from a moderate “spin” at the proper hour, for certain patients, is not to be denied. The physical , exercise in open air, combined with recreation and pleasure for the mind, is certainly advisable in many cases of neurasthenia, hypochondria, hysteria, and other debilities ; especially is it to be recommended in many cases of mental derangement. I believe that every insane asylum should be provided with an ample supply of bicycles, and a good track. For all persons who are subject to sedentary life, even though they may seem well, the wheel is not only a source of pleasure and pastime, but nowadays a necessity for health and the development of the muscles and nerves.

In order to be a graceful rider, and to promote health, one must sit perfectly erect, with the entire weight on the saddle and pedals. No weight should be on the handlebar. The handlebar need not be touched, except to guide the wheel ; and with a good saddle on a good wheel, one can, with a little practice, ride miles and miles without touching the handlebar, making all necessary turns by the motion of the body and feet.

The injuries produced by judicious cycling are but slight. Many good men and women have too hastily condemned the use of the bicycle, claiming that it is a vehicle which carries young girls to prostitution, but my experience teaches me that such theory is not correct. In cycling practiced on the public highways, and at the proper hours, girls may be as safe as in the parlor with closed doors. It is true, some abuse the liberty afforded through cycling ; but probably they are already subject to the will of Satan, and the use of the wheel only reveals the fact. Some claim that the irritation of the genitals produced by cycling leads to immoral inclinations, but I am convinced that their conclusions have been drawn more from imagination than from actual knowledge ; however, I do not deny that such a result is possible where girls are permitted to ride saddles with high and hard pommels. But when a well-shaped saddle is used, and the rider sits erect, no such effect will occur.

That accidents happen, certain affections are increased, and some diseases are produced, by careless and fast riding and by riding at improper hours, I am free to admit. But by selecting a clear track, and riding with moderate speed, in daylight, all objectionable features are obviated, and cycling becomes less harmful than riding in the carriage, on cars, or on horseback. I admit that a large percentage of the various saddles breed disease and misery and should not be used. The hard pommel bruises the soft parts in the pubic arch, and may bring on a train of diseases of the genito-urinary organs of both sexes;

\

Digitized by L.ooQle
— 33—

and the hard center at the back of the saddle is worse, for it hurts the coccyx when the rider sits erect, causing him to pitch forward, throwing his weight on the handlebar, forming what is called “the bicycle hump.” Men and boys prefer to hump forward at the expense of the urethra and other anterior structures, rather than suffer the excruciating pain produced by a bruised coccyx, but women must sit erect, notwithstanding their coccygodynia — an affection which no one can fully comprehend unless he has had it.

In order to make my explanation plain, I desire to. allude to the anatomic structure of the little triangular extremity of the spinal column, known as the coccyx. In early life this bone is composed of four segments : It is one and a half inches in length and its proximal piece, which articulates with the sacrum, is one and a half inches wide; but the three last segments are only about one-half inch in width. Thus it is easy to comprehend how this little bone, shaped like a cuckoo’s beak, can dip down to the bottom of a crevice which is only a fraction of an inch in depth ; especially when the wheel is bumping over stones and railroad tracks. Ossification of the coccyx takes place as follows : In the first segment, at birth ; in the second, at from 5 to 10 years ; in the third, from 10 to 15 years ; in the fourth, from 15 to 20 years. As age advances, these various pieces unite and form one bone. Later on, in females, the coccyx unites with the sacrum, forming one bone out of what was in youth five pieces. Before ossification of the coccyx takes place it is cartilaginous and flexible : the sphincter ani is attached to the last segment and draws it forward, while there is nothing to hold it straight, except the delicate extensor coccygis, which is often absent. Consequently, long-continued pressure while the coccyx is soft, will force it against the rectum, thereby lessening the diameter of the pelvis permanently, a point well worth the consideration of obstetricians.

How a slight bruise of the coccyx can produce the severe pain that cyclists suffer is not a mystery when we consider the little ganglion known as the “plexus vasculosum coccygeus,” so well supplied with capillary vessels and nerve filaments. It is true that our physiologists have not found a function for this ductless mass called “a gland,” but every country wheel-boy who has ^received a bump on his cuckoo bill is enlightened on the subject, for it resembles a blow on the solar plexus — once felt, never forgotten !

Medical men have not given much attention to the construction of bicycle saddles but have left the matter to mechanics who know but little of anatomy and physiology. A leading wheelman, who is considered authority on anything concerning a bicycle, recently displayed his lack of anatomic knowledge to me by saying : “When I slip forward, in order to keep from bruising my ‘sternum bone’ on the back of the saddle, my legs go to sleep from lack of circulation of blood.” He meant that in order to save his coccyx he slips forward till both ischia drop over in front of the saddle, allowing the edges to press into the sacro-sciatic notches, interfering with the sciatic nerves. It requires anatomic knowledge to design a perfect saddle, and mechanic art to execute the work as designed.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—34—

Of the large variety of saddles heretofore designed none that I have seen are perfect. Many of them have a hard pommel and bruise the soft parts in front, while all interfere with the coccyx. Several designs of saddles have been advertised in our leading medical journals as perfect ; but close observation reveals the fact that the groove in the center is not deep enough, for a groove only the fraction of an inch deep, the bottom of which is hard, can not furnish perfect protection to a coccyx one and a half inches long. The cut which we see in medical journals, showing the ischia resting on the saddle, while the tip of the coccyx is raised clear above the top of the pubic bones, is incorrect and misleading, for when the spine is erect the tip of the coccyx comes nearly to a level with the pubic arch. The tuberosities of the ischia and the gluteal muscles should rest firmly on the saddle ; but the soft parts in the pubic arch, the sacrosciatic ligaments, and the cocc}Tx must be free from pressure. The saddle should be too soft to bruise, and too firm to give. The best padding is wool felt. Hair is not good because it soon becomes displaced, packs down and gets hard. The pneumatic pad is not as good as hair, because it is too hard when well inflated, and, when only partly filled, pressure at one point displaces all the air at that point, allowing the part making the most pressure to come in contact with the hard structure of the saddle. It is also liable to burst, or get punctured.

GYMNASTICS IN THE YALE GYMNASIUM.

“Health is the vital principle of bliss,

And exercise, of health.”

Judging from the large and enthusiastic audience assembled in the Yale gymnasium, at the fete gymnastique, given under the auspices of the local Physical Education society, there are many believers in the self-evident truth that health depends on exercise as happiness does on health.

The object of the exhibition, by means of this public demonstration, was to create a wider and more intelligent public sentiment in physical culture.

Promptly at 8 o’clock the sweet strains of an overture by the Young Men’s Christian Association orchestra, under the efficient leadership of Mr. C. H. Tyler, Yale L. S., 1900, were heard. After this the young ladies of the senior and junior classes of Anderson’s Normal School of Gymnastics gave a beautiful and well-arranged exhibition of plain and fancy marching, under the direction of Dr. William G. Anderson. Some of the figures were very intricate and all were executed with a martial appearance and graceful finish.

The next number on the program was under the direction of Dr. E. Hermann Arnold, director of the Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics. At his command the young ladies of the senior and junior classes of the Anderson’s Normal School and the young ladies of the Hillhouse High School class did some highly artistic and complimentary work in tactics.

Their marching in line, in column of files, facings, and other evolutions, were well performed and received hearty applause. The exhibition

Digitized by C^ooQLe
—35—

of calisthenics by the same classes was a fine argument for the value of free exercises as a body-building means and the work was enthusiastically applauded. The same classes and the boys’ class from Anderson’s gymnasium, also appeared in German side-horse exercises. The arrangement and execution of the many vaults, jumps, and other combinations as performed, reflect much credit upon the director of the classes, Dr. E. H. Arnold.

The next event was the appearance of some 175 young ladies, young men, boys 'and girls, representing the New Haven Turn Verein, under the direction of Physical Director Professor Hermann Schlissel. Such a large number, the ladies and girls dressed in dark blue uniform with divided skirts, sailor blouses, and blue neckties, and the young men in grey knickerbockers and sleeveless white jerseys, and the boys in grey knickerbockers and blouses and red belts, furnished quite a pretty picture and they were received with vociferous and long continued plaudits. They were arranged in files of nine abreast and then were put through a short series of free calisthenics, exemplifying the value of bodv-building movements. These exercises consisted of leg, arm, and trunk movements, simple and combined, and were performed with a snap, grace and uniformity of action, characteristic of the German system of physical training. This work won merited approval from the audience.

Then a transformation took place. The large open space on the floor was quickly arranged to represent a gymnasium with all the different classes performing their regular work as they do while in the class session. The apparatus was formed in the shape of a large square, there being see-saw work by the small girls’ class, hanging pole exercises by the small boys’ class, exercises on two bucks by the second boys’ class, work on two side-horses by the juniors boys’ class, horizontal ladder exercises by the young ladies class, and voluntary advanced exercises on two parallel bars by the young men’s class.

The work of the little girls on the see-saw was a rare exhibition of nerve and muscular development. As they soared high in the air they showed much self-confidence and a sense of safety, at the same time executing arm and leg flexions, and trunk torsions. The pole exercises of the small boys class were cleverly done.

Some' of the movements were gracefully and adeptly executed, and all of them showed a climbing ability which would anger many of the Simia species. The second boys’ class in exercises on two bucks won merited approval by their well performed front, rear, straddle, and squatting vaults. It was a pleasure to see these little tots, many of them less than 10 years old, jump and mount a buck nearly as tall as themselves, with apparent ease and without effort. The work of the juniors on the two side-horses received the applause which it deserved. They were most proficient in executing front, near, straddle, squatting, flank and scissor vaults, and leg circles and cut-offs The advanced combination exercises were well done, and with ease and grace. The exercises of the ladies’ class on the horizontal ladder was a charming illustration of the poetry of movement and of accomplished grace and dignified beauty.

The advanced voluntary exercises of the young men’s class on two

Digitized by

/
-36-

parallel bars was a finished illustration of the result of regular, systematic physical training. Some of these young men have muscles of steel and San do w physiques, and the skilfulness with which they executed their intricate combination movements would put to shame many stage professionals.

All of the apparatus work performed during the evening showed, as a result of gymnastic training, an ability of muscular co-ordination and a nervous development which can only be found in regular gymnastic frequenters.

The recreative games, as played by the boys’ and girls’ classes, were a fitting close to the apparatus work and a convincing argument that the gymnasium may be made attractive to the youth by the introduction of this class of gymnastics.

The grand living pyramid, consisting of Roman ladder groupings by the actives, and set groupings on two parallel bars arranged on each side of the ladders, with floor groupings on both sides of the parallels, by the junior class, was indeed an as cleverly arranged tableau as was ever presented in this city. There were at least fifty-five persons in the pyramid, and the quickness with which the figure was set up and the stability and ease with which it was held was indeed remarkable. A selected class from the junior section made quite a hit in ground and lofty tumbling. Their somersaults, handsprings, cartwheels, a,nd twisters were exceedingly well performed.

The whole exhibition was a grand success and one reflecting much credit upon all the participants, and particularly upon the efficient committee of arrangements, composed of Mr. Louis Leyerzapf, president of the Physical Education Society; Dr. W. G. Anderson, director of Yale gymnasium, and Dr. E. Hermann Arnold, director of Anderson’s Normal School.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION MEETING.

THE regular monthly meeting of the New Haven Physical Education Society was held in the trophy room of the Yale gymnasium on March 14. A short business session was held, and instructions given to the delegates to the annual convention of the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education, which will be held in Boston on April 4, 5, and 6. Dr. Jay W. Seaver and Dr. E. Hermann Arnold will represent the local society. The following persons were proposed for membership and were elected : Robert Horn, Frederick A. Leyerzapf, Fred. Ebel, and Hermann Schlissel, instructor of the New Haven Turnverein.

Dr. E. Hermann Arnold, director of Anderson’s Normal School of Gymnastics, gave an interesting and highly instructive talk about the relation of side and front upward arm raisings during respiration to thoracic development. He was of the opinion that the arm movements had very little to do with it.

The members and officers of the society feel gratified at the success of the gymnastic exhibition given under their auspices at the Yale gymnasium recently and feel assured that local gymnasia will reap an increased membership in their classes as a result of the public interest aroused.

Digitized by Google
Map. ftND BODY. ^

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

^daj.-w'a.-vxlcee, WiaconBl n.

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

WE are in receipt of a program of the First Annual Gymnastic Exhibition of the Columbia University in the city of New York, of a similar affair in the Illinois State School of the Blind, of an exhibition of gymnastics by a ladies’ class from the South Indianapolis Turnverein at the meeting of the Southern Teachers’ Association at Shelbyville, Ind.,of an exhibition given at the Burnham Gymnasium in Milwaukee, and of a score of others. We regret that we cannot spare the space in our monthly for giving details, however much we would like to. We find some exceedingly interesting numbers on some of these programs and would gladly publish some of the drills if the manuscripts were sent us. They might be a help to others, especially if successful numbers of an exhibition were published in detail. A great deal of mental work is required in outlining and preparing such exercises, and it is a pity to think that, if not published, they will be forgotten after that one performance. •

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—The Boston Turnverein’s golden jubilee, judging from reports, must have been an affair that interested not only the German-American circles of Boston, but the whole city. Indeed, the Boston Turnverein has reason to be proud of the existence of its first half-century.

—The “Hints to Gymnasts” by F. Graf, A. Barnard, and T. Gowland, London, England, continue to be very favorably commented upon by the profession in England.

—Mr. Louis Lepper read a paper on “Physical Exercises and their Beneficial Influence upon the Body” at the meeting of the Southern Indiana Teachers’ Association in Shelbyville. Ind.

SPALDING’S OFFICIAL BASE BALL GUIDE FOR 1899.

This year’s issue of this well-known work is a remarkable compendium of the national game, ably reflecting the painstaking care with which the veteran editor, Henry Chadwich, has performed his duties.

The articles on how the game should be conducted are especially interesting, and the official records of the League and minor league and college teams are very complete. Instructions are also given, which, if followed by an intelligent player, are sure to result in improvement. The alterations to the rules appear in italics, and can be seen at a glance. Another very useful feature is the directions given to find the averages of players and clubs.

The portraits of the leading teams of the professional and amateur arenas embrace a total of about 500 individual players, and are printed on fine paper in the finest magazine style.

Digitized by

f
—38-

EXTRACTS FROM EUROPEAN JOURNALS ON PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

By W. A. OCKER, M. D.

—Chinese Military Requirements. In a Chinese newspaper of recent date is an announcement that all applicants for military service will hereafter be examined in archery and stone-slinging.

—Swimming in Hamburg. The citizens of Hamburg voted to add instruction in swimming to the curriculum of the public schools. The pupils are to receive this instruction free of charge.

—Woman’s Gymnastic Club. On January 11, 1899, the Woman’s Gymnastic Club of Berlin organized a branch club for married women. This new department is under the direction of Mrs. Troschel, M. D.

—Sugar. Professor Mosso claimed, some time ago, that people who undertake great physical feats do not appreciate the value of sugar as a part of their diet. Recently he has made many experiments on tourists ascending the mountains and now, as a result of these, verifies his former statements.

Prof. Birnie, in training an English crew in rowing, tried the sugar diet and claims beneficial results.

Bicycle riders of Holland and France are following the suggestions af Prof. Mosso and many of them now look upon sugar as a necessary part of their diet.

On long marches in the tropical sun the African Negro chews sugarcane, and this is said to be the reason for his great power of endurance which seems to astonish the European tourists.

The soldiers of the German army are experimenting along these lines, and though no positive statements have been published as to the success, good results have been attained.

Sugar, on account of its being easily digested, is rapidly absorbed and seems to excite the tired muscles to new activity. Aside from this, sugar as a part of the diet is valuable to tourists, athletes, cyclers, etc., because it can be easily carried, taking up but little room, and because it alleviates or prevents thirst and thus opposes alchoholic drinks.

—School Hygiene. This much and often discussed topic embraces many points. Proper ventilation of the schoolroom is very essential ; gymnastic and play grounds are also of paramount importance. The idiosyncrasies of each pupil must be taken into consideration, as, for instance, defects of sight or hearing, physical development, physical deformities, and the resisting power to physical as well as mental fatigue. The sex of the pupils must never be overlooked. All these must be duly considered in the education of the child, but more than anything else the school should prepare the child for the battles of later life, so that he or she can meet and overcome the many physical and mental struggles in store for the human being. A thorough and systematic course of physical training is absolutely necessary to

Digitized by
-39-

properly prepare our children in this respect, without which “school hygiene’’ is incomplete.

EXERCISE AND OVER-EXERCISE.

IF we accept the broad fact that exercise is good, says “The Hospital,” and that its effect is to increase the muscular strength and bodily development, we have to ask, “Why does still further exercise cease to be good, and what do we mean by over-exercise .?” First, we must draw a broad distinction between the effect of a constantly maintained exertion which is required in certain trades, and the alternating contraction and relaxation of all the muscles of the body, which is the characteristic of games and athletics of all kinds. That constantly maintained effort or monotonous repetition of the same movement tends to exhaustion rather than nutrition goes without saying ; but taking ordinary so-called healthy exercise, by #what is its limit set ? The limit appears to be set by three factors : (1) The capacity of the digestive organs to keep up the quality of the blood ; (2) the capacity of the excretory organs to get rid of the waste products which result from muscular action, and (3) the power of the heart to drive a constant stream of blood through every corner of the organism.

Interference with digestion is a by no means uncommon effect of excessive exercise, and so far as training is concerned it is one of the most destructive. The blood cannot flow in full stream to every part of the body at once. As Dr. Lauder Brunton says, “Every one knows that while moderate exercise tends to produce appetite, a long and exhausting exertion tends to destroy the appetite, and even to produce actual sickness, as one finds in mountain climbing.” People differ greatly in this respect, but in some—great ponderous men as they may seem—the digestion is so easily upset by muscular exercise that, although they may be giants for a momentary exertion, anything like sustained effort disturbs digestion, and cuts at the very root of their nutrition. In many cases, however, the limit to exercise lies in diminished excretion. Unless the excretory organs are thoroughly efficient the tissues become crowded with products which cannot be got rid of, the senses become dimmed, and effort becomes a mere automatism, in consequence of a self-poisoning by the products of muscular waste.

So far we have dealt with what may be fitly termed the automatic checks to over-exercise. Interference with digestion so lowers nutrition, while accumulation of waste products so poisons the system, that in either case further exertion becomes impossible—the very will to make it passes away. But it is different in regard to the heart. The heart, although strained, may yet be driven on to its own destruction. Every muscular effort not only demands from the heart an increased flow of blood, but also drives an increased quantity toward it. So long as the heart can pass this forward all is well, but when it fails not merely is the circulation of the blood rendered imperfect, but serious damage is done to the heart itself. If when the heart was over-driven it merely struck, the enfeebled circulation would soon put a stop to further effort. The willing heart, however, taking at each beat a wider sweep and

Digitized by C^ooQLe
-40-

driving into the vessels a larger quantity of blood, so meets the call that the athlete can struggle on, perhaps, to win the race. But the strained heart suffers, the stretched muscle does not quite come back, the dilated cavity does not quite close at each contraction, and permanent mischief is set up. Thus it is that exercise driven to the limit imposed by the heart is over-exercise in the most serious sense of the word. If it is the heart that stops it, the chances are that it has already gone too far.

DISCUSS GAMES AT PARIS.

A MEETING of the A. A. U. Paris Exposition committee was held at New York recently. L. M. Hamburger, special representative of the A. A. U. to the Paris exposition, made a detailed report and read communications from Baron de Coubertin bearing on the Olympian games that are to be held in Paris in 1900.

The committee decided that, as it was the intention of the American athletes to visit Paris during the exposition, they would give what support they could to the Olympic games, and upon investigation it was found that games within the Paris Exposition were to be held conforming to amateur laws to help them as much as they consistently could.

A letter from Baron de Coubertin also referred to the Olympian games to be held in America in 1904, and the committee recommended to the Board of Governors to the A. A. U. that they extend to the Comite International des Jeux Olympiques an invitation to hold its games in this country at the same time.

WEAK HEARTS AND BICYCLES.

DR. SCHOTT of Nauheim, Germany, who has devoted considerable time to the study of bicycling from a hygienic point of view, gives these as the results of his studies :

Bicycling, just as mountain climbing, accelerates the action of the heart, and thus quickens the pulse. This naturally tends to enlarge the heart during action, a process which during rest takes a backward turn, and the vital organ resumes its normal state.

By violent, or, sav, excessive exercise on the wheel, when the pulse beats at 140 per minute, the conditions change. The expansion of the heart does not fall back to the normal, as is best proved by the “used up” look of the cycle racers after a tournament. Should this strained exercise continue, the enlargement of the heart continued with it, and fatal results are inevitable.

The older the wheelmen the easier do the muscles of the heart assume undue proportions, and, the arteries becoming less elastic with age, the life of such a man is greatly endangered. There is a certain note in breathing which is an infallible warning with turners and climbers, which, however, very often fails its purpose with the cycler, for in his case the great draught caused by his run supplies him with more oxygen than is necessary.



Digitized by eaOOQie
I

—41—

All these things should be taken in due consideration by ardent wheelmen. Bicycling as an exercise should be taken only by persons whose heart and lungs are in the best natural condition.

TAKE EXERCISE ON SUNDAY.

“TOO much time is spent by mothers and fathers on Sunday dinners, 1 musicales, and the like. Young mothers go too much in society. They get so they don’t know their own children.”

These observations were recently made in an emphatic sermon by the Rev. W. S. Rainsford, pastor of St. George’s Protestant Episcopal Church in New York.

He said further :	“I want the boys of the parish to hold cross-

country runs on Sunday. They need the exercise. Some of them work until 10 o’clock Saturday night and have no chance for the physical development that will bring them into a proper family life. When New York has proper rapid transit the men will be able to come to morning services and then on Sunday afternoons go out with their families or play golf or ride the wheel.”

SWINGING CLIMBING-POLES.

(From “Manual of Heavy Gymnastics,” Chicago Public Schools.)

Lesson I.

1st Exercise. Jump to free hand-hanging position, arms and knees extended. Practice several times (left and right hand above alternately.)

2d Exercise. Jump to the climbing position, left (right.) leg in front.

3d Exercise. Jump to the climbing position, while hanging change position of feet, left and right in front alternately (four times).

4th Exercise. Climb, descend in climbing position, but move hands one after the other.

Lesson II.

1st Exercise. Jump to a free hand-hanging position on two poles * jump down and up again, three times, arms extended.

2d Exercise. As in Exercise 1, but raise and stretch knees while hanging.

3d Exercise. As in Exercise 1, but arms bent.

4th Exercise. Grasp poles about shoulder height, step backwards, run forward and swing backward, arms bent ; jump down and repeat several times.

Lesson III.

1st Exercise. Jump to hand-hang, raise left leg forward and lower; jump down and repeat with right leg. Practice several times.

Pupils stand in flank rank.

2d Exercise. As Exercise 1, but raise leg sideways.

3d Exercise. Jump to climbing position, move left (right) arm sideways.

4th Exercise. Climb ; descend as in Lesson I.

Digitized by CjOOQle


-42-

Lesson IV.

(Exercises on Two Poles.)

1st Exercise. Jump to climbing position on left pole, hands on both poles; jump down and repeat on right pole. Practice several times.

2d Exercise. As Exercise 1, but change climbing position from left to right pole while hanging. Practice several times.

3d Exercise. Step backward, grasp poles about shoulder height, run forward and jump to hand-hang on both poles, arms bent, swing legs forward while swinging forward.

4th Exercise. Climb, hands on both poles, feet around one pole, descend as in Lesson I.

Lesson V.

1st Exercise. Jump to hand-hang, pole between feet, knees straight ; jump down and up again several times.

2d Exercise. As Exercise 1, but bend and stretch arms.

3d Exercise. Grasp pole, step back, run forward, jump to climbing position, and swing forward and backward.

4th Exercise. Climb.

Lesson VI.

* 1st Exercise. Jump to free hand-hang, raise both legs forward left of pole. Practice several times.

2d Exercise. As Exercise 1, bpt right.

3d Exercise. Climb ; while descending change climbing position.

4th Exercise. Climb ; while climbing change position.

Lesson VII.

1st Exercise. Grasp pole, raise right leg forward, bend left knee deep, hands slide downward ; raise body by placing hand over hand and stretch knee.

2d Exercise. As Exercise 1, but raise left leg forward and bend right kuee.

3d Exercise. Exercise 1 and 2 alternately.

4th Exercise. Climb ; in descending stop at center of pole and move

^ left or right arm upward.

Lesson VIII.

1st Exercise. Jump tQ climbing position, travel from one pole to another ; jump down.

2d Exercise. Grasp pole and step backward, run forward and jump to climbing position, while swinging change climbing position.

3d Exercise. Climb, both hands move up simultaneously.

4th Exercise. Climb while swinging.

Lesson IX.

1st Exercise. Jump to hand-hang, arms straight, and place left leg from the left forward around the pole, raise right leg forward and lower several times, jump down.

2d Exercise. As Exercise 1, but right leg around pole and raise left leg forward.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-43-

3d Exercise. Jump to climbing position, grasp neighbor’s pole with* left hand, and return. Practice several times, jump down.

4th Exercise. As Exercise 3, but grasp neighbor’s pole with right hand.

Lesson X.

1st Exercise. Jump to hand-hang, arms extended, pole between feet, flex and extend arms, several times.

2d Exercise. As Exercise 1, but with flexing of arms raise knees, extend arms and knees several times.

3d Exercise. Climb, pole between feet, knees extended, descend with climbing position.

4th Exercise. Climb, climbing position, descend, knees extended and pole between feet.

WAND EXERCISES FOR GIRLS*

PART I.

1-	a. Swing wand sideways backward left and step forward left.

b.	Swing wand in a circle downward; place left hand on hip and tip wand

(right arm forward level with shoulder), and place right foot forward.

c.	Swing wand backward; grasp wand with left hand and return right foot

as in a.

d.	Return to fundamental position—4 counts.

The same to opposite direction—4 counts.

Practice alternately 1 to 16 counts.

2-	a. Raise wand forward, arms bent, and step sideways left.

b.	}itum left; cross right foot forward and bend both knees; lower wand for-

ward, arms slightly bent, and bend trunk forward.

c.	Raise wand, replace right foot and face frontward.

d.	Lower wand and replace left foot—4 counts.

The same to opposite direction—4 connts.

Practice alternately to 16 counts.

3-	a. Swing wand sideways left, level with shoulders, and step sideways left.

b.	Swing wand in a circle downward; place left hand on hip and tip wand

fright arm sideways level with shoulders), and cross right foot backward.

c.	Swing wand sideways left and replace right foot as in a.

d.	Return to fundamental position—4 counts.

The same to opposite direction—4 counts.

4.	As in Exercise 2, but raise wand upward, arms slightly bent, and bend

trunk backward.

5.	As Exercise 1, but swing wand sideways backward ; swing wand down-

ward in a circle and tip behind shoulders, right arm upward.

6.	As Exercise 2, but cross wand, left arm over right, and bend trunk right.

PART II.

REVERSE HOLD.

1-a. Raise wand forward and place left foot forward at first count.

b.	Wind left; move wand sideways left and place left foot sideways at second

count.

c.	Rewind ; swing wand sideways right and cross left foot backward and

bend both knees at third count.

d.	Wind left; swing wand left and place left foot sideways at fourth count, e and f as c and d, at fifth and sixth count.

g. Raise wand forward and place left foot forward at seventh count.

* Selected from the official pamphlet:	Closing-Day-Exercises	(June	23,	1899),	Chicago Public Schools.

By Henry Suder, Supervisor of Physical Culture.

Digitized by

;
-44-

h.. Lower wand and replace left foot ot eighth count.

As Exercise 1, but right—8 counts.

2-a. Wind left; raise wand sideways left and place left foot sideways at first count.

b.	Swing wand in & vertical circle (right hand releases its hold and grasps

wand again); sidewaj’s right and cross left loot backward; bend knees at second count.

c.	Swing wand downward, arms slightly bent; bend trunk forward and cross

left foot forward at third count.

d.	Raise trunk and replace left foot at fourth count.

As Exercise 2, but right.

Practice alternately—16 counts.

3.	As Exercise 1, but wind and swing wand sideways backward, high as hip»* place foot backward and cross forward.

4-a. Wind left and raise wand backward left and place left foot backward.

b.	Swing wand in a circle forward (right hand releases its hold and grasps

wand again); arm raised forward (end of wand points forward), and place left foot forward.

c.	Raise wand upward, bend trunk backward and cross left foot forward.

d.	Lower wand, raise trunk and replace foot.

5. As Exercise 1, but wind and raise wand vertically downward left, right hand at left shoulder, rewind and swing downward right.

6-a. Wind left and raise wand vertically downward left, and place left foot sideways.

b.	Swing wand in a circle to the right and raise wand vertically upward to

the right and cross left foot forward.

c.	Lower wand to the left vertically downward ; cross left foot backward

and turn trunk left.

d.	Lower wand, replace foot, and face to the front.

Note:—Practice each exercise 1 to 16 counts.

Pose.

DUMB-BELL EXERCISES FOR GIRLS.

PART 1.

Raise both bells sideways left and place left foot for ward.

Swing right bell over head to the right and place right foot forward. Swing right bell over head to the left and place right foot backward. Lower bells and return left foot.

The same, but right.

Exercise alternately—16 counts.

Raise bells sideways left and place left foot sideways.

Swing right bell over head to the right: bend trunk forward and cross right foot backward.

Return to position a.

Return to fundamental position.

As Exercise 1, but swing both bells in a circle over head to the right (left).

As Exercise 2, but swing both bells in a circle over head to the right (left), and bend trunk backward.

As Exercise 1, but swing bells in a circle over head to the right and downward to left.

As Exercise 2, but swing bells as in Exercise 5, and bend trunk sideways.

Pose.

1-a.

b.

c.

d.

2-a.

b.

c.

d.

3.

4.

5.

6.

A

Digitized by U>ooQLe
—45—

PART II.

1-	a. Swing bells sideways backward left and place left foot backward.

b.	Place bells on shoulders and place left foot forward.

c.	Place bells on hips and cross left foot forward.

d.	Lower bells and replace left foot—4 counts.

The same, but right—4 counts.

Exercise left and right alternately—16 counts.

2-	a. Swing bells sideways backward left, turn and bend trunk forward, cross

left foot backward, and bend right knee.

b.	Place bells on shoulders, raise and bend trunk backward, and place left foot

obliquely forward.

c.	Place bells on hips and return to position a.

d.	Lower bells and replace left foot—4 counts.

The same, but right—4 counts.

Exercise alternately—16 counts.

3.	As Exercise 1, but swing bells sideways backward, raise4forward, move

sideways and lower bells.

4.	As Exercise 2, but swing bells sideways backward, raise forward, move

sideways and lower bells.

5.	As Exercise 1, but swing bells sideways backward, raise sideways, raise

upward (arms slightly bent), and lower bells.

6.	As Exercise 2, but swing bells sideways backward, raise bells sideways,

raise upward (arms slightly bent), and lower.

Note:—All exercises from 1 to 16 counts.

Pose.

American Association for the Advancement of Physical

Education.

Program of the First National Convention.

Tuesday, April 4, 1899.

Morning Session. At the Girls’ Latin School, Copley Square, Boston, 9.30 o’clock.

Opening of the convention by the President of the Council.

Choice of Committee on Credentials.

Report of Committee on Credentials.

Choice of Permanent Chairman and Secretary.

Choice of Executive Committee.

Choice of Committee on Resolutions.

Session of the convention as a Committee of the Whole, (1) to hear reports from Standing Committee of the Council, and from the several societies, upon:

(a)	The condition, needs and prospects of the constituent societies.

(b)	The present condition of physical training in schools, e. g., public, secondary, normal, colleges, Y. M. C. A., clubs and societies,

and (2) to consider:

(a)	The needs of the Association.

(b)	The most hopeful means of overcoming the obstacles to its work.

(c)	Amendments and changes to Constitution, etc.

(d)	The place at which the next convention shall be held.

(e)	The district or section which shall choose the next National Council.

(/) The best means of continuing and improving the American Physical Education Review.

Afternoon Session. In the afternoon from 2.30 until 5.30 members of the convention and of the Association will be invited to visit the principal Normal Schools of Gymnastics and Gymnasia in the neighborhood. Announcements will be made at the end of the morning session.

Digitized by <^.ooQle

/
-46-

Evening Session. The evening will be held at the High School in Brookline. A paper on Swimming Baths, a series of lantern views of European and American Public Baths, and an Exhibition of Swimming at the Brookline Bath House, which is near by, may be expected.

Wednesday, April 5.

Morning Session. At the Girls’ Latin School, 9.30 a. m.

(1)	Discussion Of the following resolution:

Whereas, Though muscular exercise is capable of serving as a valuable adjunct in the promotion and restoration of health, its principal ends iu school work are not therapeutic but educational and hygienic, and whereas we hold that systematic physical training has paramount claims to be considered and organized as a necessary and indispensable form of educational discipline, therefore be it

Resolved, That it is contrary to the best interests of physical education for teachers of gymnastics and directors of physical training, unless they have taken a medical degree, to profess or be expected to serve either as experts in school hygiene or as practitioners in Mechanotherapy.

Resolved, That a medical degree in itself cannot be considered as a sufficient qualification for a position as director of physical training or teacher of gymnastics, and

Resolved, That a professional course of training is a necessary qualification for the teacher of gymnastics or director of physical training.

Discussion to be opened by Dr. H. L. Taylor, of New York, Dr. C. J. Enebuske, of Boston, Miss Jessie H. Bancroft, of Brooklyn, and Mr. Hartvig Nissen, of Boston.

(2)	Discussion as to the advisability of the A. A. A. P. E. undertaking to determine and certify the qualification of teachers of physical training.

Discussion to be opened b}T Dr. G. W. Fitz, of Cambridge, Dr. E. H. Arnold, of New Haven, and Baroness Rose Posse, of Boston.

Afternoon Session. Discussion of the following resolution:

Whereas We believe that serious obstacles to the advancement of physical education in the United States are found in the undue and premature promotion of athletic sports, and the well-nigh general failure of school and college authorities to recognize and promote approved and rational forms of physical training, theretore be it

Resolved, That, while school games and plays are highly desirable, the intro duction and support of gymnastic instruction in city and country schools is of too great importance to be subordinated to the interests of games and plays.

Discussion to be opened by Dr. D. A. Sargent, of Cambridge, Miss Rebecca Stoneroad, of Washington, and Mr. G. E. Johnson, of Andover.

Evening Session. A public meeting will be held at the Hall of the Boston Y. M. C. A., Boylston Street, at eight o’clock.

Addresses will be given by the President of the convention, by Mayor Quincy, and by Dr. Hartwell, President of the Association.

It is expected that the Gymnasium of the Y. M. C. A. will be open to the inspection of the public after the exercises of the evening.

Thursday, April 6.

Motning Session. The business meeting and closing session of the convention will be held at the Girls’ Latin School at 9.30 a. m.

Afternoon Session. A public meeting vy’ill be held at the Fogg Art Museum of Harvard University, at Cambridge, at 3 or 3.30, at which it is expected that President Eliot, Dr. Sargent, Dr. Hitchcock, and Dr. Seaver will speak on the question:

What measures are best calculated to secure a dignified and influential place for Physical Training in the educational curriculum ?

After the meeting an opportunity will be given to visit the principal buildings of the University, and the New Gymnasium of Radcliffe College will be open for inspection and a social gathering.

Evening Session. At eight o’clock there will be a Gymnastic Exhibition in the Hemenway Gymnasium, Cambridge, by students from Harvard University, the Boston Turn Verein, the Boston Swedish Gymnastic Club, the Boston Y. M. C. A. and Y. M. C. U. pupils from the Boston Public Schools and Dr. Sargent’s Normal School of Physical Training.

Digitized by C^ooQLe
The exhibition will be free to the members of the convention, but others will be charged an admission fee for the benefit of the publication fund of the A. A. A. P E.

Y. M. C. A. Physical Directors’ Conference.

gpHE conference will meet this year at Dayton, 0. It will begin on the evening of the 16th of May and will continue through the 23d, closing in time to allow * the delegates to get to the international convention at Grand Rapids, Mich.

The major topic of the conference is work for boys, especially the physical department. There will be two sessions daily: from 9 to 11.30, from 2 to 4.30. After the afternoon session there will be presented practical work of various kinds—exhibitions, classes,, and the bringing out cf many practical details of a more or less unfamiliar character. There will be a series of papers by physical directors upon the general subject of the holding of members. The details and the speakers cannot be announced yet. The headings will be: “The Utilization of the Social Ties in the Gymnasium,” “The Use of Records, Photographs, Medals, and the Like,” “The Use of Recreation in Holding Members,” “Personal Measurements as Related to Personal Interest,” “Progressive Work in the Holding of Members,” “The Place of Competitive Work in Maintaining Interest in the Same Individual for a Long Time.

There will be a group of practical papers upon the following topics : “The Organization of Boys’ Work,” “The Character of Gymnasium Work for Boys,” “Religious Work for Boys,” “Recent Literature on Physical Training,” “Gymnastic Nomenclature.”

The conference is held by the Athletic League of North America, but physical directors and others interested are invited to attend.

There will be an address each day upon boys by Dr. Gulick. The general outline is as follows:

STUDY OF BOYS.

1.	Boys’ Bodies: Changes in height and weight between the ages of 12 to 18. Power of resisting disease and death. Energy expending impulses.

2.	Boys’ Minds : Reasoning, enthusiasm, idealism, heroism, courage, cowardice, pertinacity, haste.

3.	Character Formation : The places of reason, suggestion, habit instinct example in building of character.

4.	The Boy Out of Doors: Camping out, interest in fires, building houses, hunting, fishing, sailing, roughing it.

5.	Boys’ Fights : Why boys fight; the significance of interest in weapons ; boxing, wrestling, fencing.

6.	Bad Boys : The relation of the unruly boy to essential morality ; the boy’s view-point.

7.	Group Games and their Significance : Psychology of team play as shown by football and baseball. Group games as related to Anglo-Saxon stock. Dawn of altruism.

8.	Physical Training : Relation of needs of the organism to the best exercises for the period. The utilization of the play instinct. Technical physical education. Relation of later intellectual endurance to physical power of boyhood.

9.	Conversion and Religious Growth : Biological setting for phenomena of the religious life during adolescence. Bible study for boys.

CORRESPONDENCE.

Theodor Toepel, Atlanta.—Our congratulations to the M. D.!

F. Webster, Washington, Pa.—Your letter has been referred to the publishers who no doubt will look into the matter.

W. A. Crippen.—Too late for April. Will bring part of it in May. Your letter is very interesting. The N. A. G. U. has decided not to conduct a summer course this yeai.

Digitized by taOOQle
—48—

Adolph Riedel, Baltimore, Md.—Just because someone else has received the appointment which you expected yourselves you are in no way justified in condemning him and his teaching-methods. You showed extremely poor taste when you attacked the present supervisor of physical training in the Baltimore schools through the daily newspapers. It is ridiculous in you to demand publicly that the health department stop physical training in the sohools because it contains in the preliminary work a few tactical topics, such as “mark time.” If you had read the programs of physical culture of most of our cities you ♦would have found the same provision embodied. We do not claim that it must be so or that arguments could not be brought against these few “mark time” steps, but the possible harm surely does not outweigh the benefit to such an extent as to give you the right to entirely forget the dignity of your profession. We find your arguments vague and in the main dictated by personal motives.—You have asked for our opinion—here it is !

Curt Toll.—That was the best we could do, consideriug the small space at our disposal. Best regards.

T. W. Eggers, Allegheny.—You are about to open a large office building wdth some 60 physicians’ offices in the city of Pittsburg. You are willing and self-sacrificing enough to establish a reading-room for the spiritual benefit of your physician-tenants and ask us to put your reading-room on our free mailing list. We feel as though it were our sacred duty to comply with your request and to cheerfully send you one or more copies of “Mind and Body” every month free of charge, providing only th^t you also accept a fully equipped library on physical culture and allied subjects, and that you do not reject a more or less elaborate book-case or other necessary furniture.

BOOK REVIEW.

—The Consolidation of Schools and the Conveyance of Children. By G. T. Fletcher, Agent of the Massachusetts Board of Education.—This is the title of an interesting pamphlet published in the interest of a new centralization-movement of country schools.

A HINT TO ROWING MEN.

“The Intercollegiate Rowing Association, who control aquatic matters of the large number of rowing colleges in the country, could do much to encourage the sport by adding to their annual eight-oared races a program including, say, Senior and Freshman four-oar races, Senior and Freshman pair oars, Senior and Freshman double sculls, and Senior and Freshman single sculls. Of course, a seat in ‘the’ boat would always remain the coveted honor, but a man would feel that he had been rewarded for his trouble if he were fortunate enough to be in any of the above winning crews.

Such a program would, of course, necessitate a two-days’ meet, which would practically become the American Henley, differing only in the fact that it would be entirely collegiate. I am of opinion that if ever this is tried it will practically revolutionize college rowing, and that it will not take us many years to find a second wrorld’s wonder, such as B. H. Howell and others.—“Vigilant”, in Outing for April.

—Announcement of the Harvard University for its Summer School of Arts and Sciences pro 1899.—This summer school contains a department for phpsical training under the able direction of Dr. D. A. Sargent.

—The Inland Publishing Co., Terre Haute, Ind., announces that a new book on physical training will soon appear on the market, namely: “Practical Physical Culture for Public and Private Schools” by Louis Lepper and Wm. H. Wiley.—It will be reviewed as soon as it is out.

—The X-Ray Journal for April, 1899. Vol. IV, No. 4. This last issue is again full of interesting reading matter to those interested in and familiar with the subject.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for one year on receipt of $4.00 for 4 new subscribers.

