MIND AND BODY

MARCH, 1907.

Yol. 14.

No 157

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 1347 Colwyn St., Philadelphia, Pa,

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wu.

MASS ENCAMPMENTS AT GYMNASTIC FESTIVALS.

By CAPTAIN M. B. STEWART, U. S. Army.

(Continued.)

GENERAL ARRANGEMENT.

Next, naturally, comes the question of the general arrangement of the camp after the tentage has been obtained and the site selected. It is a popular fallacy that, to enjoy camp life thoroughly, one must be uncomfortable. “Roughing it” is a favorable expression with those to whom camping is an occasional diversion rather than a professional necessity. It may be stated as a general rule that, with all conveniences, with every precaution as to order and sanitation, the ordinary camp life will present sufficient discomforts to more than satisfy the most zealous of the uninitiated. Much of the comfort and benefit to be obtained from camping may be lost through improper camp arrangement. To illustrate this briefly: Kitchens and sinks improperly placed contribute largely and unnecessarily to the discomfort of a camp by flooding it with unpleasant odors and their attendant insect life. Besides, no matter how good the food may be, no one cares to live in a perpetual odor of its preparation. A disordered camp merely invites discomfort and disease, and nothing is more fruitful of general disorderliness and uncleanliness around a camp than an improper arrangement of the camp itself. How then should it be arranged ! Ex perience has taught us that the arrangement of the dwellings and other buildings of a city into streets is not only the best but the sole means of obtaining proper sanitary arrangements and conditions as well as the other conveniences. Furthermore, such an arrangement facilitates the enforcement of law and older among those of the inhabitants for whom restraint is necessary. Irregular streets, alleys and by-ways are almost invarablv hotbeds of lawlessness, disorder and vice, as well as of filth and disease. What is true of a town is true only in a lesser degree of a camp. The well arranged camp is economical of ground space. Its plan should be carefully considered in order to leave no nooks for the accumulation of filth and debris, or to permit of improper or unsanitary practices on the part of its occupants. It should

Digitized by CjOOQle
permit of easy communication between all parts. It should be open, with wide intervals between the tents to permit of full and easy inspection. Its kitchens and sinks should be apart from the body of the encampment. All this would seem to indicate that the proper camp should be laid out in streets after some orderly plan, with intervals of uniform width around each tent.	#

0

o

<o

□	5

o?

D

D

D

D

0

D

a

□

□□□□□□□□□□□a

□□□□□□□□□□□□□n

□ □aaacmciciaoDCin

□□□□□□DDDQOOOn

D □□□□□□□□□□□□•«

D

0 □□□□□□□□□□□□« co n

2 u □□□□aaaoDannu

I n DGDOaQODQQDDn

o U □□□□aooonnaau

3 n □□□□□□□□□□□□□

□ □ODD□□ODDQD REGULAR ENCAMPMENT

O

Z

D

O

a

o

Iu

a

<

ac

<

a

CAMP OFFICERS

□ □□

a

Eo

in

*-

□

□

D

D

a

o

0

0

0

□□□□□□□

GENERAL ARRANGEMENT FOR A MASS ENCAMPMENT.

The diagram accompanying this discussion has been prepared with a view to meeting these requirements, at the same time harmonizing with the conditions governing your mass festivals.

This diagram is divided into two parts which will be referred to as the regular and the irregular encampments. They are similar in every respect as to the arrangement of streets, location of kitchens, sinks, etc., only differing in the character of the tentage which it is contemplated will be used in the two encampments. In the regular encampment will be pitched the tents secured for those who have not provided themselves with private tentage, and the arrangement is based on the supposition that the tentage purchased or rented for this purpose will be of uniform

Digitized by CjOOQle
-3

size and shape. The arrangement is for twelve streets of twenty-four tents each, twelve to the side. Assuming that each tent will accommodate three or four men, this side of the encampment will accommodate, roughly, between eight and twelve hundred men. The irregular encampment is merely laid out in plots with streets so arranged that the camp will 'be symmetrical. These plots will be occupied by the irregular tentage brought by such of your organizations as may possess it. Assuming that their tentage will accommodate about an equal number of men to the groundspace occupied, the whole encampment ought to furnish quarters for from sixteen to twenty-five hundred men. This number may be added to or subtracted from by the simple expedient of laying out more or fewer streets, or, of making the streets longer or shorter, whichever plan adapts itself best to the ground. In the rear of each street will be seen the spaces allotted to kitchens and toilets. In case it is not desired to use this space for kitchens on the regular side, it may be utilized for shower baths, etc. On the irregular side it will probably be necessary to allot more space for the kitchens than is indicated on the diagram, since there Will be a greater number of them than would be necessary for the same number of men if messed by companies. In this case greater space may be allotted along the same line, the general arrangement here shown being strictly adherred to. No kitchens should he permitted ‘ within the body of the encampment. Aside from the discomfort and annoyance which these may cause to others, they should be strictly prohibited on account of the danger of fire. Individual encampments desiring to compete for prizes could have space allotted to them at the outer end of the different streets in order to retain their arrangement intact.

It will be seen that these two camps are separated by an open space or parade ground which provides a convenient place in which the members of the encampment may congregate socially or receive their friends, at the same time preserving the privacy of their tents from the intrusion of sightseers. This parade may be of any width which the ground will allow. If possible to do so, it might be well to have it of sufficient width to permit of holding the various exercises here between the two encampments. It would be the most convenient place for all of the members, and would obviate the necessity of long walks to and from the exercises. It would also contribute to the promptness with which the members would assemble for exercises.

Along the inner border of the two encampments will be seen a row of tents which will be designated as the inspectors* tents and which will be, referred to later on. At one end of the parade is a collection of tents designed for the occupancy of those having the encampment in charge and as offices for the transaction of the necessary business.

The tents indicated in the regular encampment are taken to be ten feet square with six foot intervals around them. This interval permits of proper air circulation and also of proper inspection. It also permits the occupants of the tents to move easily around their tents for the purpose of cleaning the adjacent ground.

The question of lighting the camp and the tents is one which will probably have to be solved for each encampment according to the

Digitized by CjOOQle
varying circumstances. In default of anything better the camp may be uniformly lighted by planting stout posts in the streets, at least three to each street, one near each end and one in the middle, and attaching to each of these an ordinary reflector lamp or even a lantern. On these posts should be placed sign boards bearing the number of the street in sufficiently large numerals. These sign boards will prove a great convenience both day and night in finding the way about the camp and they will also facilitate the wprk of the committee in assigning and distributing the various organizations. On one of the lamp posts of each street should be a bulletin board where programs, notices, copies or camp regulations, etc. may be posted. This will save much confusion and much unnecessary answering of questions as well as be a great convenience to the members.

As to the lighting of the tents at night, the use of oil lamps should be prohibited. They are a prolific source of conflagrations and a fire in camp is a serious matter, often resulting in total destruction. If possible, the tents should be lighted with candle lanterns. They give a good light, are clean and safe and are free from offensive odors. Members might be advised in advance to provide themselves with these articles, or they might be procured by the comihittec for a nominal consideration.

In each street should be placed a number, at least four, of barrels or boxes in which waste paper, garbage and, possibly, bottles may be deposited. There should be also in each street one or more water barrels, kept constantly filled with pure drinking water, and members should be cautioned to use no other. The cover of each barrel should be securely fastened on in order to prevent the practice of dipping water from the barrel. A spigot which closes automatically should be used in order to prevent the waste of water. No common drinking cup should be provided. Require each member to supply himself with one.

Two or three open water barrels should be provided for the water necessary for washing, etc.

The question of ditching a camp to provide the proper drainage in case of storms is a perplexing one. If it does not rain, a considerable amount of hard work has been wasted. If it does rain, the elements may be defied. To ditch properly a camp, such as the one under discussion, is a large undertaking and one which would hardly bejustified for an encampment of so short a period. If the proper kind of siteis obtained an ordinary storm will not prove of any great inconvenience. The reasonable conclusion as to the ditching of mass festival camps would seem to be that a good]jsite should be selected, (or, in default of this, prayer should be offered for fair weather).

SANITATION.

The subject of camp sanitation is a broad one, in fact it presents an almost unlimited field for study, but the matter here will be treated only to the limit of the necessities of mass festivals. For this purpose it will suffice if attention is given to the following points: camp sites, already discussed; camp cleanliness; the proper location of sinks and kitchens and their proper care.

Digitized by C^ooQle
Cleanliness around a camp, especially with untrained and, in a sense, undisciplined, men, can only be secured and maintained at the price of “eternal vigilante.” Necessary precautions must be insisted upon. It may seem absurd to require that small scraps of paper be picked up and deposited in the proper receptacles, but if they are allowed to remain on the ground around the camp, they become a constant invitation to your men to throw other and harmful debris beside them. How this cleanliness may be secured will be shown in the set of regulations accompanying another part of the discussion.

We come now to the subject of kitchen pits, or, holes in the ground for the disposition of the refuse and garbage from the kitchens. To begin with, kitchen pits should be dug for the disposition of liquid refuse only. All solid garbage should be placed in barrels or boxes provided for that purpose and carted away twice daily if possible. Its ultimate destruction will depend upon the local municipal regulations. The size of the kitchen pit will vary with the nature of the soil in which it is dug. In sandy or gravely soil they need not be more than two or three feet deep unless they are designed to accommodate an unusal amount of liquid. The should be dug with nearly vtrtical sides to permit of easy covering. The ground around the mouth of the pit should be carefully leveled so that the cover may fit closely, thus preventing the ingress or egress of flies. The covers should be of boards, fitted closely together and of sufficient size to cover fully the mouth of the pit. They should never be removed except for the purpose of placing refuse in the pit. These pits should be carefully filled with earth when abandoned.

The question of sinks, or toilets, must be given most careful attention. In camps of any permanency they must be so located that they will not pollute the water supply, even though this necessitates an inconvenient removal from the vicinity of the camp, and in considering this possible pollution, it must be borne in mind that it may occur by soakage through the sub-soil as well as by being overflowed and by surface drainage. For camps of this size and degree of permancy a sink should be constructed for each street. The pits should be about two or three feet wide, twelve to fifteen feet long and not less than five feet deep. They should never be used after they have been filled to within two feet of the surface. A convenient seat for such a sink may be fashioned from a piece of 4" by 4'' pine, rounded and smoothed on the sides and edges. This is supported at each end by a tripod of three posts. These posts should be about five feet long and sharpened at one end. About ten inches from the unsharpened end an inch hole should be bored and the three posts fastened loosely but securely together by a stout rope passed through these holes. They may then be easily arranged as a tripod and, when the sharpened ends are driven into the ground, furnish secure rests for the seat pole. This pole is placed near one edge of the pit and will be found to be all that is necessary. The use of this style of pit and seat does away with the necessity for separate urinals, the one pit serving all purposes. Having constructed these sinks, the next question is as to their proper care. In warm weather this must be given especial attention to prevent the spread of

Digitized by Tooele
disease by flies. A good rule to follow is that the excrements should never be left uncovered. A man should be hired to be in constant attendance to perform this duty. In each sink should be a barrel of lime or ashes and this should be liberally used in connection with the earth thrown into the pit. If these pits are in soil where the liquid deposits do not readily absorb, they should be disinfected daily. This may be done by partially filling the pit with dried leaves or straw, sprinkling this with a little oil and burning it.

Finally, in selecting and laying out your camp, if possible to do so, locate the direction of the prevailing winds and so place your camp that these winds will blow along the line of your kitchens and sinks rather than across them and the camp.	(To be continued.)

AGE LIMITATION OF SPORTS.

By H. TOEPPEN, M. D., PH. D., St. Louis, Mo.

A few remarks on age limitation of sports may be welcome to some of the readers of the ‘Journal’ and may help to throw additional light on the question, since they are based on personal experience and partly upon observations made on a number of personal friends.

I think that the question is a highly important one, not only for the physician as one who is likely to be consulted upon it, but for one whose personal health, welfare, and working power may be greatly increased by giving up the idea that athletic sports, etc., as a privilege of youth and young adults, and by claiming a full share of them for himself at all periods of his life, at all places and in all seasons. It is, of course, entirely futile to lay down age limits of general applicability, because the extremes are separated by an enormous,distance, I saw a man of about twenty-seven the other day—healthy and fairly good looking—whose muscles were so utterly neglected that he could not hang from a swinging ring (at rest) holding on with one hand, whereas I know, on the other hand, quite a number of men in this city who are past fifty and can easily climb a twenty-five foot rope hand over hand. I know many men who get completely exhausted if they run ten or fifteen yards to catch a car, at the same age when others are able to compete in so-called Marathon races. Nobody can say that age has nothing to do with the fitness of sports generally and for certain kinds of sports especially, but—next to health—habit and practice are far more important.

\s to hardening of tissues, rigidity of arteries, etc., as a consequence of age, there is no rule of general applicability. It is well known that Harvey found the arteries intact in a man who died at one hundred and fifty-two years of age. Some time ago I had occasion to examine a man of sixtv-eight, whose accessible arteries showed no evidence of sclerosis, and whose pulse was enviably good, so that I should have insured his life—from this standpoint—without any doubt. He died a few months ago, eighty-seven years old, without any acute disease. Nobody can doubt that arteries which are left undisturbed day after

Digitized by c^ooQle
day and are just expected to keep up a sluggish circulation, sufficient to supply a more or less (bodily) lazy business man, will assume a good deal of rigidity at about forty or earlier. $ut arteries which are made to respond to sudden or energetic calls for increased and lively circulation—without frequent excessive demands—every day, will last a good deal longer in consequence of improved nourishment of their walls and more lively excretion of waste and stagnation products. If we stand by the saying, “a man is as old as are his arteries,” this consideration leads us with necessity to the most general recommendation of “sports” for everybody, everywhere, and at all times. Only— individualize and study yourself as well as those recommended to your care. I think there is sport, sportlike pastime and physical exercise for every age, from six to seventy years and over, and for all countries, climates, and circumstances.

I wish those athletic directors who are of the opinion that football should not be played after twenty-five would give their anatomical and physiological reasons fully, and also give the material on which they base their conclusions. Football, especially Rugby, is preeminently a game of endurance. When could it be played better and with greater safety than at that period of life when the skeleton is fully developed, the muscular system most powerful, the vascular system unimpaired in all healthy individuals, the nervous system as quick in action as can be desired, and the will power at its height? I think the years from twenty-five to thirty-five are the best for the football player, provided his body has had its rights up to that age.

Take such an unexcelled sport as skating (ice skating, I mean). I think it can be indulged in by boys of six as well as by men past sixty, provided they have practiced it right along; by little girls as well as by women nearing and, maybe, past the menopause. A gentleman of this place, who was generally known as “Santa Claus,” skated every winter until he died a few years ago well up in the sixties. In Holland, the home of skating, a man past seventy once won a well contested public race over the ordinary Dutch course of a 160 Dutch yards. The well known eastern skater, G. R. Phillips, has been able to carry prizes in public competitions of speed and figure skating during a period of thirty years (1867 to 1897), and is far from being “played out.” One of the best woman skaters I am acquainted with is forty-five years old and she does not think of giving up, studying new figures and trying new ponds every winter. Skating stands far ahead of any other sport in my personal estimation. I enjoy it now as fully as I did in 1873, when I studied rolls and easy figures on mv first pair of “Acme” skates—then new in the old country—or in December, 1862, when I first tried to slide along on one little skate. I never feel better in mind and body than during the—only too short!—skating season, when I can be young with the boys and fool them at catching, hockey, or racing, or strike out on an apparently endless sheet of ice as if I intended to take up the fight through life once more.

Take running for another example, running in all its forms, from the short sprints required in the games of small boys to the mile in four minutes and a half of the athlete in his prime, or to the twenty-

Digitized by CjOOQle
five miles of a “Marathon” runner: There are variations and modifications for everybody, and it is a sport that can be indulged in at almost any time and place. You can run “on the spot” near an open window in your bedroom and “work up a sweat” in this way that will satisfy any trainer. And how about age in this case? Well, in ago-as-you please race from Bordeaux to Paris in France (about 350 miles), which took place a couple of years ago, a man of seventy arrived ninth, in good condition. An example well known in Germany is Professor G. Jaeger, the originator of the so-called “normal clothing system” (all wool). When he was a little past fifty, he used to live about five miles from Stuttgart, then the place of his business life. After adopting his all wool clothing system he began to take up running—-for reasons not here to be discussed. At first he could hardly cover five hundred yards without getting nearly exhausted and bathed in perspiration. He gradually improved, and was soon able to run the five miles without any trouble. The running (at least as much as the all wool clothing system) changed him from a “stout, short-winded, elderly gentleman” to a well formed, active, and lively man “in his best years”. Try it, I am very fond of it, and I am sure it would work wonders in many a one who thinks he is only fit for scrap iron. Certainly, a man of fifty must run differently from a youth of twenty, especially if he has not practiced for a long time. His vaso motor apparatus answers slower; he must not start with a sprint and expect to keep up a six minutes to the mile gait for miles. Walk a few hundred yards briskly* then fall into a light trot, and gradually increase your speed and feel how fast you can go without having to breathe hurriedly and through your mouth; say, one respiratory cycle to every six steps. I think if every man could make it rule to run a mile or more daily and do light gymnastic work for fifteen minutes every day before retiring—living a rational life otherwise—all age limits for sports would have to be moved considerably, and the arteries would show those disagreeable signs of approaching age much later.

I have mentioned gymnastic work. No limit here for anybody, and no excuse! There is an enormous field, say, from the tumbles and giant swings of the youth and young adult to the light dumbbell work and the systematic body movements that even the octogenarian c*ui perform and enjoy. It would lead us too far to go into any detail heire„

Another sport that I consider fit for healthy individuals of all ages is swimming. A boy or a girl of six can learn it easihT, and a man of fifty or sixty—if in constant practice—will enjoy his swim in a lake on a nice summer day as well as ever, and may be able to keep pace with a much younger swimmer on longer distances requiring a long, even and steady stroke. The best swimmer at the little town in Germany where I tried my first paddling was a tall, gray haired man of about sixty-five who would swim out into the lake until we could hardly see his head anymore. A well known gentleman in Cincinnati, who must now be past seventy, could always gather a crowd by his diving feats when I saw him some years ago.

Take wrestling for a last example. Nobody will deny that it is a sport even more strenuous than football. Have we to draw a twcntv-

Digitized by CaOOQle
-9-

five year line here, too? I think all the well known wrestlers of to-day arc older than that, and it is generally known that Cannon held the Graeco-Roman championship of England until he had passed fifty years of age. Wrestling, the “microcosmos of gymnastics,99 is a fine form of bodily exercise for those who enjoy hard muscular work after the tedious business hours of the day, and may be practiced—adapting it to circumstances—by the man of a ripe age as well as the boy of ten or twelve, especially the form known in this country as catch-as-catch-can (which is about identical to one form of Swiss wrestling).- I exchanged the Graeco-Roman (or Germain gymnastic) style for this one about twelve years ago, then over forty years old, and still enjoy it if my opponent is of my own weight or a little lighter, and if it is deprived of its potential roughness by a gentlemanly spirit of the partners.

To sum up: It is futile to try and lay down definite age limits for the different kinds of athletic sports. The limits vary individually within very wide marks, and if observations made on a number of individuals of the present generation put them very low, this does not mean that they would be the true and desirable limits if we had a generation whose physical education from the beginning had been taken and carried out upon a plan only one fourth or even one tenth as elaborate as the plan for its mental education, not only as far as exercise and sport is concerned, but also in regard of eating, drinking, clothing, sleeping, pleasures, stimulants, etc., and whose individuals are willing to continue to live upon a similar plan ofter growing out of the hands of their educators. Live a simple, natural life, take strenuous exercise every day of your life, even should you steal the time to do so, and see what will become of your personal limit for the various kinds of sports.—N. Y. Medical journal.

HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN *

A STATEMENT OF THE ENDEAVORS OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION TO CONSERVE THE HEALTH OF CHILDREN UNDER ITS CARE.

By LUTHER HALSEY GULICK, M. D., New York, Director of Physical Training. New York.

Public Schools.

(Concluded.)

THE second measure which is taken to combat the effects of the school desk, is the formal physical training. This consists ol a series of exercises, the chief emphasis of which is placed upon movements of the large muscular masses rather than upon delicate and complicated movements of small muscular groups. The effects sought are primarily physiological. These exercises are not designed to take the place of play, nor to furnish the general exercises that the pupil need4?. They are designed to combat the effects of the school desk, to secure to each pupil good carriage, and erect and vigorous habits of walking.

In the schools having gymnasia it is possible to use the lighter forms of apparatus, such as dumbbells, wands, Indian clubs, and the like. In other schools free exercises only can be used. In both cases there are prescribed

* Read before the New York Academy of Medicine on May 24, 1906.

Digitized by
-10-

and taught by the teachers series of exercises which demand increasing muscular strength, endurance, and control from grade to grade. In addition to these formal exercises, it is possible in the lower grades to have a considerable number of vigorous gymnastic games, having for their purpose general recreation and physical training, which in the upper years must be carried on outside of school hours.

With reference now to the after*school activities, in the line of athletics, for our public school boys and girls :	This	work	must, in the nature of the

case, be voluntary. It cannot be carried on officially by the Board of Education, for this Board is not related to the out-of-school activities of children. Thete has, therefore, come into existence a great organization, known as the “Public Schools Athletic League.” This League has on its board of directors the president of the Board of Education, the superintendent of Schools, district superintendents, high and elementary school principals, class teachers, business men in the community, and others who are especially competent and interested in the problems of athletics for boys and girls.

The first endeavor of this Athletic League was in the direction of establishing great sets of city games of the ordinary kind: running, jumping, relay racing, etc. We clearly understand that these conventional athletics suffice nearly to bring into prominence those boys who need athletic training the least; that is, those who are by inheritance and test endowed in physique and stamina.

Fashion and wont are such great elements among boys as well as adults that this seems to be the most useful way of teaching the athletic spirit, cultivating school loyalty, and the like. These great city games constitute the dramatic elements that appear in the public press and which are talked about by the boys. They do not, however, represent the chief work of the League, nor its main interests. Its main interests and its largest activities are to get boys having average or below-average attainment, into vigorous athletic sports. The devices that are used for this purpose are, in the nature of the case, experimental and original. I mention but one: it is called “class athletics.*’ We are giving trophies to the class in the borough of a given grade that can run the fastest for a short distance, or that can jump the farthest. Every member of the class is timed in running or measured in his jumping, and an average is struck. This is compared with the average of other classes. There is much interest in this. The boys who are most expert help the boys who are less expert, because the average is influenced even more by the inferior runners than by the .superior ones.

The problem of athletic sports for girls we are just now seriously attacking. There is now a public wave of interest in athletics for girls and women. This interest has already, in many cases, led girls and women to overdo. They have not had preliminary athletic experience, nor are they physiologically competent wisely to undertake athletics of as strenuous a character as those which are provided for boys and men. Our first object, then, is to exercise a controlling influence with reference to these sports, to see that they are not overdone and that unprepared individuals are kept out of them altogether. We aim also to devise new sports and to modify old ones, so that they shall be adapted to the development of girls as the present forms of athletics are to boys.

The Board of Education is conducting two forms of after-school activity which are closely related to the health of its children. One is known as the Evening Recreation Centers, and the other as the Afternoon and Evening

Digitized by

Google
-11-

Playgrounds. During the year 1904—1905, in the most congested parts of the city, 21 schools were opened in the evening as recreation centers. Iq these schools ample opportunities were offered for games, dancing, gymnastics, as well as the quietest forms of recreation. The average attendance at these 21 recreation centers was 7,276 per evening. Some of the recreation centers were equipped with shower biths. The average number of persons taking baths per evening was 148. During the summer, after the close of the regular schools, the Hoard of Education opens a large number of gymnasia and playgrounds in the afternoon. Last summer there were in operation 67 of such playgrounds. Regular gymnastic work and plays and games of many kinds, under expert supervision, are carried on in this way. The average attendance last year was 38,566 per dav. During the evenings n of the schools, having suitably equipped roofs, opened these roofs to the public, provided bands, and supplied expert supervision. The average attendance at these 11 roofs was 22,148. The 7 schools having bath equipments during last summer gave a total of 288,387 bath*. The average per day is not recorded.

Instruction in Physiology and Hygiene. In passing, mere reference can be made to this subject. It would demand a whole paper to acquaint you with any degree of fairness with the respects in which this work is being done.

Instruction is given as to the effects of alcohol and narcotics, in accordance with the law of the State. In doing this, particular pains are taken to emphasize the constructive phase of the subject —not to elaborate upon pathology or to depict pathological conditions. The case against the general consumption ot alcohol is sufficiently great, so that it is found to be wholly unnecessary to resort to any extreme statements in order to carry out the provisions of the law.

A single point of view is taken each year rather than the mere repetition of the subject matter with greater detail year after year. For example, in the fourth year there is the general topic of good health; the fifth year, what children may do in emergencies in which they my find themselves; the sixth year, health from the standpoint of the dweller in towns, contagious diseases, water supply, and the like. In the seventh year we find the usual physiology and hygiene In the eighth year the questions of personal habits, personal control, and the like are discussed, as well as to some extent the nervous system and the special senses.

Ideals. —It may not be out of place to indicate some ideals toward which additional progress should be made with reference to the health of school children.

1.	There should be individual care, personal inquiry and knowledge of the home, life of approximately the lower tenth of every class. This includes those who, for one reason or another, twice fail of promotion. This work is now being done to some extent by the school nurses under the employ of the Board of Health. The work should be very greatly extended. Allowing that there are but 500 000 children, of which but 50,000 need this individual attention, and that each school nurse can wisely handle ioo such cases, keeping in personal touch with them and with their families, if would take 500 nurses. These 500 nurses would add to the wealth of the State by saving to efficient lives a large fraction of those who now come to adult life with such a degree of impaired vigor or defective development as to be relatively unproductive in an economic sense. Whatever is necessary to be done to prevent incompetence must be done. This can only be accomplished by personal attention of a consecutive character by a person who is qualified from the standpoint of health, in cooperation with a physician.

Digitized by
-12-

2.	We need to have the consecutive records of all children as to age, height, weight, eyes, ears, nose, throat, heart, lungs, and so on. Only in this way can the highest degree of efficiency be secured. I was much interested recently to see in the current press accounts of medical care of certain child laborers in India. This care was given most efficiently, not from the standpoint of humanitarian interests, but because it was discovered that the working capacity of the children was a direct, function of their health, and that it paid financially to keep them well. It will pay well educationally for us to keep track of the children with reference to these matters of health. It is a relative waste of money to endeavor to train the nervous system of the child that is seriously undernourished, whose growth is perverted, and who has reflex irritation from defective teeth, eyes, and so on. This work which is undertaken in such a vigorous way by the'Board of Health, must be extended and coordinated more perfectly with the Board of Education.

3.	The size of classes should be decreased, so that the nervous strain upon teachers shall be lessened; so that that there shall be opportunity for a larger degree of individual attention than now obtains; so that teachers may be able to become personally acquainted with the children and to some extent have regard for their health in a way that is not possible in classes of fifty or sixty, where each one must be pressed into certain objective standards.

4.	London has a minimum requirement of 30 square feet of playground space for each child in connection with the schools. This is very little. New York should do no less, and yet for a large school—for Public School 188, in which there are approximately 5,000 children—it would take 150,000 square feet, or a square of 130 yards on each side. An average city block up-town is 200 feet wide ond 300 feet long. It would take a block 50 feet wide and 300 feet long to provide the needed area for this one school.

5.	There should be an open-air playground within walking distance for each child. What is walking distance tor a child three years old needs to be very near. Places where older boys may play ball need not be so close to gether.

6.	Special classes and schools should be organized for defective children of all kinds. It matters not if these are crippled because of disability of the osseous system, the ocular, the auditory, or from central lack of development. The demands both of humanity and of social economy involve the care ot these unfortunates by the public schools.

In making progress such as is here suggested, two fundamental factors are involved: first, an agreement as to what ought to be done; and second, the power to do. Concerning the wisdom of most of these steps the medical and educational men of the world are pretty well agreed, but the power is not yet present. Institutions like the public schools cannot proceed very much in advance of public sentiment, particularly when such advance involves the expenditure of large amounts of money. To furnish 500 school nurses together with such organization, supplies, and the like as they would need, would involve the annual expenditure of upwards of $500,000. To secure the consecutive examination of a>l children, as is recommended, would involve the employment for the city, I should estimate, of not less than 250 medical examiners. The present property value of the public schools is not less than $150,000,000. To add to this so that each child could be in a class not to exceed thirty children, would involve an expenditure of an additional 60 per cent., or $90,000,000. The addili< nal teach ng and supervisory force would cost about $15,000,000 per annum more than the $25,000000 now spent.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-13-

To furnish for each school thirty square feet of playground space would cost many more millions; how many it would be difficult to estimate. To furnish a playground within walking distance of each child in the congested districts is not poss ble on the present basis. If each child below Fourteenth Street were to be given a space of three yards square it would demand that approximately every fifth building should be torn down in that area. The development of many-storied playgrounds seems to me to be inevitable. The development of special classes and schools for all defectives would bean exceedingly large enterprise.

The most serious obstacle in the progress of such a program as I have outlined is the lack of informed public opinion as to the necessity for these things. Our city possesses the money and is inclined to deal very generously with all matters affecting the welfare of children. But the parents of most ol these children were brought up under conditions of either relatively little school life, or school life on the old basis of the three *'R’s” and under conditions where a considerable degree of that general motor education which goes with domestic work, and cooperation of boys with the parents was possible. These citizens probably fail to realize that the conditions have changed completely; that it is no longer possible for children in central parts of New York City to play out of doors, as they themselves did, or to secure that muscular training and that motor education in-connection with domestic work or cooperation with the fathers in their work which they themselves secured; and further, that these functions must be discharged with reference to the children by the State through the public schools, because under the conditions named the home no longer serves the need of the children in these respects. What we need, then, is education of public opinion.

The most capable body for the formation of opinion with reference to the health of school children and with reference to steps that need to be taken in order wisely to meet the conditions of child-life as presented by the city, is the distinctly professional bodj', members of which I have the priviledge of addressing this evening. Progress is being made in every one of the directions that I have named. The Board of Education is not merely interested, but regards the health of school children as fundamental—as more fundamental than education— and recognizes its own responsibility with reference to these things; but under present conditions of public opinion it cannot tproceed materially faster than it is now going. Great strides have been made during the last decade. In fact, nearly all that is being done with reference to the health of the children has been developed during this decade. All that has been outlined can be carried out as soon as it is possible to procure the funds. The physicians of this community are in a position to speak authoratively with reference to these things, as no other persons can speak. They can enable the Board of Education to do these things. Without their help the Board of Education must proceed slowly and lamely in these matters.

During the winter of 1895 there was an extended attack on the Board of Education because it used physical training, manual training, drawing, music, cooking—all those subjects that involve the training of the body, the training of the eye and the hand, the training of the breathing apparatus, the vocal apparatus-all of them involving central co-ordinations, motor images, and the like. That was a time when the Board of Education needed the support of the medical men of this city. Such support was not given. The Board of Education needs and craves not only the advice, but also and equally the support for every step which it takes with reference to increasing the health, the personal efficiency, and the power to live of these complex groups of children that come to it from all over the world. For these reasons it was with peculiar pleasure and gratification that I received the kind invitation which lias made the presentation of this paper possible.

—A special committee for physical education has been appointed in the French national chamber. Its purpose is to consider the qtustton of bodily culture for the nation’s good.

Digitized by CaOOQie
A REPORT ON THE PHYSICAL TRAINING OF THE BOYS* CLASSES IN THE MANUAL TRAINING HIGH SCHOOL OF INDIANAPOLIS.

By OTTO A. WURL.

THE gymnasium classes are divided into two divisions, A and B.

Division A exercises on Mondays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, and B exercises on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays.

The program of each lesson, except on Wednesdays, consists of:

I.	Tactics in running and marching.

II.	Free exercises.

III.	Apparatus work.

IV.	Games.

Jumping in one form or another is a part of each lesson, either in free exercises or as apparatus work.

On Mondays and Tuesdays the free exercises are taken standing in open order. The apparatus work is taken a sclass-work, during which more than one pupil exercises on the same apparatus or on an apparatus of a similar kind at the same time. There are only three kinds of apparatus which can be used in class-work. They consist of the parallel bars, climbing poles, and the jumping standards. Occasionally the horse and buck are used for vaulting instead of jumping.

On Wednesdays, when both classes, divisions A and B, attend, indoor track work is done. The lessons on this day consist of:

I Tactics in running and marching.

II. Two of the following events—high jump, shot put, pole vault and far jump.

III.	The start for the dash,for a relay race. The relay race is used oftener because it is more interesting.

On Thursdays and Fridays the free exercises are taken in standing, marching and running, and the apparatus work in squads on different apparatus. This is necessary because there is not enough apparatus of each kind to do class-work.

MATERIAL USED FOR THE VARIOUS PARTS OF THE PROGRAM.

I.	TACTICS.

1.	Running as an introductory exercise to accelerate heart and lung action.

a.	Winding in flank rank, such as: figure running—short and long snake, circle, spiral and figure eight,

b.	Running forward in flank rank with leg exercises, such as: bent knees, crossing of legs, straight legs (stilt), raising knees forward, raising heels, raising straight legs forward, also backward,

c.	Running in one and two divisions at the will of the leader and facing (V2 turn 1. or r.) on command,

d.	Running in one division, jumping over, or running around, obstacles.

2.	Marching as an intermediate exercise to restore normal circulation and respiration.

a.	Marching forward and sideward in flank ranks with hands on shoulders of pupil in front.

Digitized by CaOOQle
—15—

b.	Marching on place, forward and backward in front rank, with neighbor’s hands connected at height of the shoulders.

c.	Marching forward, changing from front to flank ranks on command (1. or r. face).

d.	Facing one-fourth turn in two steps, one-half turn in four steps; the same exercises while marching forward.

e.	Marching forward in front ranks, and on command changing to marching sideward in flank ranks.

The figures formed in running are first formed in marching during the preceding lesson. The connection of the members is discontinued as soon as the alignment has improved to such a degree that this is unnecessary. A good carriage is demanded of the pupils at all times.

II.	FREE EXERCISES.

a.	First month—Two-movement simple exercises.

b.	Second month—Two-movement simple exercises arranged as four-

movement sequences, for example:	Starting	position—arms for

thrust. “Bend the knees to a right angle—1, thrust arms upward—2, bend the arms—3, straighten the knees—4.’’

c.	Third month—Two-movement exercises of two parts of the body (combined exercises).

I shall dwell on these exercises for some time, using dumbbells and wands as innovations as well as for the purpose of adding weight to the arms.

Each exercise contains balancing and corrective exercises, also such forms ol lively exercises that have a recreative effect and will keep the boys interested and busy. I include two or three trunk exercises in each lesson. If we do not have jumping with the standards or vaulting over an apparatus I bring in this form of movement as free exercises. Some of the forms are:	Hopping on place with or without leg or arm

exercises; jumping upward, forward, sideward or backward with closed legs; jumping with one or more steps in walking or running as a start.

III.	APPARATUS WORK.

I began the work on the apparatus with the simplest forms and progressed in accordance with the development of the boys. An easy trick or stunt is introduced now and then to create interest. The exercises are general!}' arranged in two groups because developing exercises get monotonous if carried on too long. Sometimes I alternate the exercises of the two groups, e. g.:

1.	Group 1, exercise 1. Long swing on the horizontal bar.

2.	Group 2, exercise 1. Turn over backward into knee hang right be-

tween the hands, etc.

3. Group 1, exercise 2. Long swing with a leg exercise.

4. Group 2, exercise 2. Take up the knee hang again in a changed form.

I find that by #ontinuing on the long swing the hands of the boys will hurt, and they will do the exercise reluctantly, while alternating exercises, as noted above, keep their hands in better condition and, therefore, the boys in better spirits.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-16-

Some days two kinds of apparatus are used in a lesson. If some kind of jumping or vaulting is taken first as apparatus work the second apparatus would be such on which hanging exercises could be taken. We also use one form of vaulting in which many boys can get much exercise in a short time, this is by using the boys as bucks. This form is used immediately after free exercises when the boys are in open order. It is very interesting and also permits of many variations.

IV.	GAMES.

I use from five to nine minutes for games in each lesson, using such games as are interesting and afford the greatest amount of activity to the pupils. A list of the games used is as follows:

1.	Running one way and hopping back to the starting place on one or both legs.

2.	“Fox and the chickens.1’

3.	“Come along,” in a double circle.

4.	“Three deep.”

5.	“Tag ball.”

6.	“Dodge ball.”

7.	“Battle ball.”

8.	“Captain Ball.”

9.	“Basket ball.”

Some of these games can be played in various ways. This we do. But after introducing a new game we play it for quite a while so as to bring out its fine points. The pupils must know a game well to get the greatest enjoyment out of it.

Gymnastics in our school is elective. I have been trying to interest the boys so that they will choose physical training as a part of their school work as long as they attend school. I believe that a good many will. I explained to them that gymnastics should be progressive, which is impossible unless they remain in the work through successive semesters.

—From “Physical Education.” Dr. Ivor Gustafson engaged Exeter Hall last month to lecture on “Scientific Physical Culture through Rational Exercises without Appliances.” We observed that, though hailing from Stockholm, the M.D. was gained in U. S. A. Only six or seven persons were present. The lecturer spoke English so imperfectly it was an inspirational thought to hand the oration round before in the shape of a, book. Nothing new was told us, and too much claimed for the movements; to expect the youth of the nation to do daily a series of deadly dull exercises alone in the quiet of his or her bedchamber is to write one’s self down an ass! If it were done it would tend to produce in the race cerebral decay. Two teachers of gymnastics who were present asked a few pertinent questions, but the lecturer treated the questioners with anything but the politeness generally shown by his race. One thing that amused us was the fact that he was such a weedy weakling, before “I went in for ray rational exercises.” They all say this!

Digitized by c.ooQle
X X rwrv Tr	_	~~ Published Monthly.

Mind «ne> body. *

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO Sibwription Price, 91.00 per Year.	Milwaukee,	Wiaconein-

Address all business leuere to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 1347 Colwyn St., Philadelphia, Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS;

—The movement for municipal playgrounds is broadening and gaining headway. A meeting of the National Playground Association will be held in Chicago June 20, 21 and 22, which should attract the attention of all who are interested in this movement. We are glad to present this month to our readers a practical plan for a model playground by Mr. W. L. Coop. It is an elaboration of a former article in the Gymnasia by Mr. Coop, and it will commend itself to all who want to get down to the bottom facts and know what a playground will cost, how to begin with the essential parts, and then, as more money is available, how to continue.

A card index is one of the greatest time savers for busy people. Numerous complaints of subscribers, saying that they know they have read an article somewhere that would be of great use to them now if they knew where to find it, prompts us to call their attention to the card index. Buy a package of blank index cards, and when you have read an article which you want to keep for reference, take one of your cards and write the title of the article on the top line. On the next line put a few words stating the contents of the article and when you read it. To illustrate, we will say you read an article that you want to keep. Your first card will read:

Detrimental Effects of City Life.

Loss of Vitality, Increasing Death Rate.

“Mind and Body,” No. 123.

But this article has other view points, and so you take a second card and your inscription will, perhaps, read:

Games.

Their Effect upon the Health of City Children.

“Mind and Body,” No. 123.

It may be that this article may call for a third card, directing attention to the “Effect of Games Upon the Mind.” By following this course you will, in a short time, have an index alphabetically arranged, to which you will often turn with profit.

-In the last number of the American Physical Education Review, December, 1906, Dr. R. Tait McKenzie gives a very interesting description of that form of Japanese physical education termed Jiu-jitsu. Halftones and line engravings show a number of movements, points of attack and methods of resistance. The article is the best we have seen on this

Digitized by CaOOQle
-18-

topic, and with its historical introduction is of more than ordinary interest. It should be read by all teachers and students of physical training.

—Nowadays when we hear and read so much of the physiological effects of exercise, age limits, etc., from well meaning but rather theoretical teachers and students of physical education it does one’s heart good to read an article from one who does not study these effects from the standpoint of a theorist or of an athlete interested only in one form of exercise. We want to call particular attention to the article by Dr. H. Toeppen, which we reprint from the “New York Medical Journal.’’ Dr. Toeppen, as we personally know, has continually “practiced what he preached” and conclusions are drawn from the never failing fountain of experience.

—In this issue we bring the first of Mr. Seuss’s lessons in “Gymnastic Dancing.” At a time when educators are looking for rational means for cultivating rhythm, especially in school work, it seems fortunate that we are able to present rhythmic work in its most fascinating form, arranged bv one who is a successful teacher with all that this word implies. If we may express a wish, it is that those of our readers to whom these steps may be new do not immediately cast all other work aside, for these exercises, when accompanied by music, belong to the most fascinating forms of gymnasium work.

A MODEL PLAYGROUND With Its FIELDHOUSE

By W. L. COOP of the Narragansctt Machine Co.

DEAR to the heart of everv boy, and every man with a boy’s heart, is the old playground. It may be the pasture back of the old red school bouse, the village common, or the vacant city lot, but it is the first place to run to after school and where the larger part of the Saturday holiday is spent.

There is the worn square for rotation or the match with the team from another school, the pile of stones for “duck on the rock” and the shady tree where, lying on the cool grass, the last game can be played over again and the next game planned. Then there is the “Swimming Hole” down where the brook makes a steep bend and washes deep under its bank, running out on the shallow gravel where the timid little fellows feel their wav over the round stones and watch the big boys dive from the bank.

But the villages are growing to be towns and the towns cities. The pasture is being plotted for house lots and the vacant lots built on—the “swimming hole” is closed, nearby householders objected to it, and there seems to be no place for a boy to play. And yet a boy must play to be a man. If he does not run hard, jump high and wide, climb and swim, his muscles will not be developed; and if he does not do stunts to show how strong and brave he is, and how he can do things that no other boy can do, he won’t amount to much. Wellington said the battle of Waterloo was won on the Eaton School Playground; and Joseph Lee thinks “that it is on the ball field that the boy's real life, and the part that is most serious to him, is passed.” Mr. Lee thinks

Digitized by

Google
—19—

"‘that team games are the best schools of citizenship that exist.” He says, “In playing these games the boy is not going through the forms of citizenship—learning parlamentary law, raising points of order and moving the previous question—he is being initiated into its essence, actually and in a very vivid way participating in the thing itself. He is experiencing citizenship, not learning about it; undergoing the actual and habitual experience of losing the sense of his own individuality in that of a larger whole.”

“To the boy playing football, the losing himself in the consciousness of the team, utterly subordinating his individual aims to the common purpose, is not a matter of self-sacrifice but of self-fulfillment, the coming into his birthright, the satisfying of his human necessity of socialization, of becoming a part of a social or political whole. What is being born in that boy is the social man—man the politician, man •the citizen, and it is my belief that in most instances this political or social man will get himself thoroughly and successfully born in no other way.”

Now, in some cities the people have thought that it is worth while for the boys, and the girls too, to have places to play. In Boston even before Revolutionary times the “Common” was set aside for the boys to play ball on, and even a British general could not find it in his heart to deny them that privilege. But nearly twenty years ago the city of Boston made a playground that was more than an open lot on which boys might play ball. A celebrated firm of landscape architects laid out a running track nearly a quarter of a mile long, and built a house in which were baths and lockers for the boy to keep his clothing in ; and a great college gymnasium director, who had not forgotten what he liked when he was a boy, designed iron frames with ladders, swings, teeters, climbing ropes and poles; in fact, an outdoor gymnasium, and at the other end of the pretty park on the Charles River, where this outdoor gymnasium was placed, they made another playground for girls. They, too, had a great frame with apparatus,— merry-go-rounds, swings, and lots of things that girls like; and there were sand boxes for the little ones, and a very pretty running track with grass in the center to tumble on, and sheltered seats for mothers to sit and watch them; all surrounded with beautiful flowering shrubs and tall bushes.

In the great city of New York the children play on the roofs of the schools, in the cool basements, and in the smoothly paved school yards. They have outdoor gymnasia in vacant lots and one under the end of the great bridge that goes over to Brooklyn. Several of the great piers, at which ocean steamers unload their cargoes, have upper stories all roofed over and open on the sides for the cool air from the water to blow through; making fine playgrounds that are filled with children and their mothers from the hot, narrow streets nearby, all summer long. There are also playgrounds in several of the parks, and a few small parks in the lower part of the city, where a great many people live, devoted entirely to playgrounds.

The city of Chicago has the greatest number and the most complete playgrounds. They opened in South Chicago two years ago ten play-

Digitized by CaOOQle
3 5* ST

ARMOUR SQUARE PLAYGROUNDS, CHICAGO, ILL.

grounds like the one shown above, each of which had field houses with gymnasia and baths for boys and girls, to be opened all the year; and an open-air swimming pool for the summer time. The grounds were differently arranged, but all of them had running tracks, open-air gymnasia for both boys and girls, wading pools and sand courts for the little ones, anu fields.

These are the kind of playgrounds every city should have and the kind all can get if they are only earnest about it.

There are indications that the leading spirits in many cities or towns are considering some means of gymnastics or recreation; not. to their own minds, clearly defined. To offer a progressive and comprehensive plan that can be started at a moderate cost and added to as circumstances permit, and the approximate cost of a plant of this nature, is the object of this sketch, which illustrates and describes a gymnasium and playground for a small city.

A TOWN GYMNASIUM.

Google
-21-

The gymnasium building, which is the focal point of the scheme, is shown in the perspective above, and in the plans below. The center

or body is 40 by 70 feet, two stories high and a basement under the rear half. This latter may contain the heating apparatus for the building and the baths. On the main floor is shown the entrance or administration room which controls the entrances to the entire building including the wings and playgrounds. This should also be the social room, the megaron, or gathering room; it should have a cheerful fireplace and tables with books and magazines. In some places the public library might be in this room in charge of some attendant.

In the rear of the entrance room are the shower-bath and locker rooms, arranged to connect either with the hall above, or with the wings, and with the playgrounds, used in warm weather. If this central building is built first, the hall above, 40 by 70 feet, could be fitted as the gymnasium, the equipment being as shown in the plan of the right wing, which has the same dimensions.

Later the wings might be added and the apparatus transferred to one of them and the hall used for social gatherings or separate gymnasiums for women and men. The indoor swimming pool, while perhaps the last to be added, will be the first in popularity all the year round.

Mill or slow-burning construction should be used for all the buildings, both on account of cost and lessened fire risk. The central building might cost from $1.50 to $2.50 per square foot, or from $4,000 to $10,000 according to materials used, cost of labor, etc. If well designed it will present an artistic appearance. The wings should cost much less, no. excavation being necessary. These could be built of field stone or boulders, up to the window line. Cement concrete would be well adapted to the rest of the building, except, perhaps, the upper story, which could be shingled on the sides. Flat roofs would be economical and desirable for many reasons.

Digitized by Google
—22—

The bath and locker rooms may be connected by a passage to either gymnasium or the swimming pool, and the entrances are always under the control of the attendant at the desk.

An indoor gymnasium would be a very imcomplete provision for recreation in the summer time, and as land in small towns and cities is not usually high priced, the gymnasium should be made the playground center, using the same baths, lockers and facilities for control.

The playground plan is suggestive and sould be modified to suit space and other limitations. It should provide the three inain features shown, i. e., a playground for girls and women, separated and screened from public view by shrubbery; an athletic field for boys and men; and an outdoor swimming pool for all to use.

PLAN FOR A TOWN PLAYGROUND.

The girls’ playground is shown equipped with outdoor apparatus, for directed gymnastics; a wading pool and shady sand boxes for the little ones, and a track for hoops and tricycles, with a grass plat in the center to tumble on. The shaded pergola around the gymnasium is a resting place for mothers from which they can watch their little ones.

The boy’s side is provided with apparatus suitable for the larger boys and grown-ups, provision being made for athletics. The running track may be as large as the space will permit, generally 220 yards or eight laps per mile; the oval centre being available for football and baseball.

The swimming pool provides a substitute for the “swimmin’ hole,’' now in many towns being taken away from the boys and used for other purposes. The pool should have a high fence or concrete wall and dressing rooms at the sides. It can also be connected to either the men’s or women’s locker rooms and these used as dressing rooms.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-23-

A playground of this type under intelligent supervision should increase the physical and general health of the young people of any city and amply repay the investment.

In the following are given estimates for the various parts of the model playground with its fieldhouse, omitting the cost of the ground:

Central Building—40x70, 2 storeis high, with basement under rear half........................... $4000	to	$10000

Right Wing—for Gymnasium, one story............. 2500	“	5000

Left Wing—for Swimming Pool, one story......... '2000	“	5000

Both buildings to be built in slow burning or mill style of construction with brick or concrete walls or flat roofs.

Indoor Gymnastic Apparatus....................... 500	“	1000

Indoor Swimming Pool—of cement concrete.......... 400	“	500

Lining pool with porcelain tile.................. 800	“	1000

Dressing Rooms—for swimming pool (40)............ 200	“	400

Lockers for baths (200).......................... 000	“	1000

Shower Baths—including partitions and plumbing... 300	“	800

Heater—for baths and building.................... 400	“	600

Outdoor Playground Apparatus...................   500	“	1000

Outdoor Swimming Pool—(60x120), concrete......	1800	“	2400

Excavating for swimming pool..................... 400	“	500

Outdoor Dressing Rooms— (36)..................... 150	“	250

Cinder Track—(15 feet wide) including excavation

per running foot................................. 3	“	5

Grading, fencing and shrubbery, according to

locality and amount of work done............... 300	“	1000

HOW TO GET A PLAYGROUND.

After reading what other people have done, of what a play center ought to consist, and of the probable cost of an equipment, it is well to know how to go about to get this desirable improvement for your own city. The following plan by Mr. Joseph Lee is so practical that it immediately clears the way for conscious, effective action. Don’t you think you can start the ball a-rolling in your vicinity?

1.	The first thing to do is to get the local people interested, especially those living in the immediate vicinity. You ought to interest: Any local political organization ; clubs, whether men or women, including mothers’ clubs ; any childhelping society ; anybody interested in juvenile court or anti-child labor ; charity organization society ; turnverein ; Y. M. C. A.; settlements and boys’ clubs; school authorities ; teachers and pupils in the neighboring schools ; churches ; trade unions; the neighboring property owners (the effect of the playground in lessening the attention of boys to neighboring shrubs, gardens and fruit trees would be a matter of interest to these); and the newspapers.

2.	Get people to volunteer to help the playground with a little money or material for apparatus, or to teach there.

All these organizations and individuals ought to be asked, of course, to bring the matter to the attention of the local government by speaking and writing to them and sending petitions. The school children and boys’ and girls’ clubs should be asked to circulate petitions. They will care more about the playground when they get it if they have to work for it.

3.	There should be a general agitation to affect the opinion of the municipality as a whole. Having an edition of the local paper devoted to the subject, with perhaps illustrations taken from playgrounds already in use, is a good way. This should be followed by a series of editorials, if possible, and letteis from leading citizens. Public lectures would help to interest the press and the people.

4.	Prepare a statement lor general circulation, citing leading authorities and stating the need of clean sport.

Digitized by ^ooQle
-24-

5.	Get the park board to set aside a good, level stretch of land for playground purposes and equip this with simple playground apparatus, first getting such as is of the greatest use for the greatest number of children and, later, adding to this.

C. If the park board cannot be reached, have some public spirited citizen offer the use of a piece of land for a year or two. By that time the people will be educated far enough to bring about a change of mind in the park board.

7.	Do not wait until you have all the money you would like to spend. Start immediately on a small scale and grow up to your larger purpose.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT MOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

< Continued. >

A CLASS DRILL, division (squad) work on the apparatus and close with'the game “Captain Ball.” See rules of the game. As a preliminary a short run. Form a front rank of the class. Then by fours (or sixes) *4 wheel 1. in successive order after four (or six) steps, the first four (or sixes) begin by passing down in front of the class to farther end, column r. to center and column r. again up the center to location for drill. See figures 1 and 2.

The two inner rows open order outw.' by passing in front of outer neighbors in about four steps and turn to front. See figure 3.

V V T TTTTTT i" T X TT TTT

r.. ^ E --------*	^

Ag./ h

•j



-I H

-•

-4

H

"i

H

4

u *>

/1^

v*:

CALISTHENICS.

Arms to thrust—bend !

1.	Bend knees and thrust arms downw.—1! Pos.—2! Raise 1. leg forw. and thrust arms forw.—3! Pos.—4! Repeat bending knees, etc.—5,6! Raise r. leg forw., etc.—7, 8! Arms down!

2.	Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise arms forw. overh.—1, 2! Bend trunk forw. and move arms downw.—3, 4! Bend r. knee, extend trunk and place hands behind the head—5, 6! Starting pos.—7,8! Same r.—1, 8!

Hands on shoulders—place!

3.	Bend knees and stretch arms outw.—1! Pos.—2! Raise 1. leg backw. and stretch arms upw.—3! Pos.—4! Repeat bending knees, etc.—5,6! Raise r. leg backw., etc.—7, 8! Arms—down!

4.	Stride pos. backw. 1. and raise arms forw.—1, 2! Bend trunk backw. and move arms upw.—3,4! Bend r. knee, extend trunk and move arms outw. on a level with the shoulders (head and chest elevated, the arms back as far as possible)—5, 6! Starting pos.—7, 8! Same r.—1, 8!

Digitized by U^ooQle
-25-

In front leaning rest—

5.	Bend and extend arms 8, 10 or 12 times. Pos.—standi

In place rest! Or some variety of gymnastic tactics.

Pos.—stand!

6.	Lunge forw. 1. and raise arms forw. overh.—1! Pos.—2! Bend trunk sidew. 1., place 1. hand on hip and bend r. arm to a semicircle overh.—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1,4! Alt.—1,8!

Hands on hips—place!

7.	Jump to cross stride pos. (1. forw., r. backw.)— i! Pos.—2! Same opp.—3, 4! Repeat 8, 10 or 12 times. Arms—down !

8.	Stride pos. sidew. 1. and raise arms outw.—1! Turn trunk to the

1.	(arms to remain on a level with the shoulders)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5,8!

9.	a) Stationary run with raising lower legs backw. b) As a, with raising extended legs forw.

NOTE.—Execute a and b respectively 24 to 36 counts.

10.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowl}” and raise arms outw. overh. in four counts; exhale and lower arms forw. to starting pos. in four counts. Repeat 5 or 6 times.

Close ranks in reverse order to that of opening the same. Ranks wheel I., r. or I. face, march forw. and form divisions (squads), then to assigned places on the apparatus.

First Division: Long buck.

Second	“	Flying rings.

Third	“	High parallel bar.

Fourth	11	High jump.

Change places. Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division .—Long Buck (height of shoulders).

A short run precedes all exercises.

1.	Straddle vault forw.

2. Straddle vault forw. and Vi turn 1. Same with Vfe turn 1. Same opp.

3. Straddle vault forw. with rest only on 1. hand. Same r.

4.	Straddle vault forw. without resting hands on buck (free jump).

5.	Jump to knee stand.; dismount forw.

b. Jump to knee stand; jump to stand on buck; dismount forw. and V2 turn 1. (or r.).

7.	Sheep-vault forw.

NOTE.—The leader of the squad to stand ready near the buck to offer assistance if needed.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the second division on the flying rings.

First Division.—Flying Rings (jumping height)*

1.	Pull up to straight arm rest; Y\ turn over forw. to straight arm hang, and down.

2.	Pull up to straight arm rest; lower backw. with 1 highs flexed over body, continue the turn backw. to back hang; turn over forw. to front hang, and down.

Digitized by CaOOQle
3.	As ex. 2, but instead of back hang execute shoulder twist to front hang; swing forw. and knee swing (knee circle) backw. L on 1. wrist; 14 turn over forw. to hang, and down. Same opposite.

4.	14 turn backw. to straight arm rest; lower backw. with thighs flexed over body, immediately follow with shoulder twist backw. to front hang; swing forw. and again flex thighs over body, then kip (upstart) to straight arm rest; raise both legs forw. to r. angle; lower slowly to full extension of arms and both legs still held forw. at r. angle; lower legs, and down.

5.	An exercise free for all.

Second Division.—Flying Rings (Jumping height).

1.	Circle both legs r. 4 or 6 times, gradually increasing, then decreasing circle, and down.

2.	As ex. 1, but opposite.

3.	Pull up to dip rest; lower to hang and reoeat, then down.

4.	Pull up to straight arm rest; lower to dip rest 1. and move extended r. arm sidew.; bend r. arm to dip rest; extend both arms to straight arm rest; lower to hang, and down. Same opposite.

5.	Short swing forw. and backw., again forw. and knee circle backw.

1.	on 1. wrist to rest; turn over forw. to hang; swing both legs forw. and % turn over backw. to back hang; % turn over forw. to front hang, and down.

Same opposite.

6.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the first division on the long buck.

Second Division.—Long Buck.

Execute the same exercises as those of the first division.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same exercises. The third to begin on the high parallel bars and the fourth with high jump, then change places.

High Parallel Bars.

In front cross stand at end,

1.	Jump to cross rest, swing forw. and backw., then dip swing forw. and straddle seat in front of hands; place hands in front of thighs and repeat the exercise to farther end, and down.

2.	Place r. hand on 1. bar, then jump up with V2 turn 1. and place I. hand on r. bar to back cross rest; swing forw., dip swing backw. and straddle seat behind hands; place hands in back of thighs and repeat the exercise to farther end, and down.

3.	Bend trunk forw., raise arms backw. and upw. to outside grasp on bars; turn over forw. and lower 1. leg on 1. bar (bending the knee, the r. leg remaining extended), then pull up to cross riding scat in front of 1. hand; place 1. hand in front of 1. thigh, swing both legs backw., then forw. to cross riding seat in front of r. hand; repeat to farther end, straddle dismount forw. r. over r. bar and *4 turn 1.

4.	Start as ex. 3, but pull up and turn over forw. to straddle seat in front of hands; place hands in front of thighs; roll over forw. to

Digitized by
-27-

straddle seat in front of hands; circle I. leg forw. to r. and Vi turn 1. to front leaning rest; place 1. foot on farther bar (leg extended) and flank vault dismount forw.

In back cross stand, the hauds on end or at sides near the ends—

5.	Vi turn over backw. to straddle seat behind hands; place hands in back of thighs, roll over backw. to straddle seat behind hands, place hands in back of thighs, circle r. leg forw. to 1. and Vi turn r. to front leaning rest, place r. foot on farther bar (leg extended) and flank vault dismounfr forw.

6.	Am exercise free for all.

High Jumping.

Start at three ft. and raise bar two inches after every jump.

1.	Spring off* of 1. foot. Same r.

2.	Hurdle. Stepping off of 1. foot. etc. Same r.

3.	Jump off of both feet, raise both knees forw. and arms forw. overh. in the flight.

4.	Try for height, springing off of 1. or r. foot. Run at r. angle to bar or diagonally for side jump.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and prepare for “Captain Ball.” After conclusion of the game line up the class, or order to pos., clap hands once and dismiss.	(To	be continued.)

DANCING IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By N. C. SEUSS,

Gradu .te of the Gilbert Normal School of Dancing, Physical Director at the North Cincinnati Turnverein.

(All rights reserved.)

The exercises are arranged so as to meet the requirements of modern methods in the teaching of dancing in the gymnasium.

A systematic teaching of the exercises as they appear will lead to a complete dance called the “Military Polka.” An appropriate piece of music for the dance is “Attention,” written by W. W. Vollmer, published by the Thieben & Stierlein Music Co., St. Louis, Mo.

In the following lessons the fundamental principles of the Polka and Glide Polka are given; the simplicity and ease with which they may be taught will instantly be seen. It is advisable in the class-room not to go to hastily from one exercise to the next. Musical accompaniment enters as an essential factor in the successful teaching of these exercises and its necessity, therefore, cannot be emphasized too strongly.

CLASS FORMATION.

Front rank, hands joined shoulder-high.

1st Exercise.

Bend the knees 1; stretch the knees 2; rise on the toes 3; lower the heels 4;—two measures of music.

2nd Exercise.

Step left sideward 1; close the right to the left foot 2 ( = Follow-step left sideward); bend the knees 3; stretch the knees 4;—two measures of music. Repeat, beginning right;—two measures of music.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-28-

3rd Exercise.

Point left in the fourth position in front (or place the left foot forward) 1; raise the left knee 2; return to the starting position 3—4; — two measures of music. Repeat, beginning righttwo measures of music.

4th Exercise.

Follow-step left sideward 1—2; repeat 3—4; bend the knees 5; stretch the knees 6; rise on the toes 7; lower the heels 8two measures of music. Repeat, beginning right;—two measures of music.

5th Exercise.

Point left in the fourth position in front 1; raise and replace the left foot 2; repeat 3; starting position 4;—two measures of music. Repeat, beginning right;—two measures of music.

6th Exercise.

Step left sideward 1; cross right leg in rear 2;—one measure of music. Repeat to the right;—one measure of music.

7th Exercise.

Three steps forward and point right in the fourth position in front 1—4; three steps backward and point left in the fourth position in rear 5—8;—four measures of music.

8th Exercise.

Follow-step left sideward 1—2; step left sideward 3; cross right leg in rear 4;—two measures of music. Repeat, beginning right;—two measures of music.

9th Exercise.

Three slides left sideward and cross right leg in rear 1—4;—two measures of music. Repeat, beginning right;—two measures of music.

10th Exercise.

Combine the 7th and 9th exercises as one;—eight measures of music.

11th Exercise.

Polka-step (stamp left, right, left and then raise the right knee);— two measures of music. Repeat, beginning right;—two measures of music. Repeat left and right sideward;—four measures of music.

Note.—“Cupid’s Garden,” by Max C. Eugene, is a very good accompaniment for the 11th, 12th, 13th and 14th exercises.

12th Exercise.

Two follow-steps left sideward 1—4; stamp left, right, left and then raise the right knee 5—8;—four measures of music. Repeat, beginning right;—four measures of music. Repeat the above, beginning with two slides;—eight measures of music.

13th Exercise.—Glide-Polka.

Combine the 7th and the 12th exercises as one;—eight measures of music.

14th Exercise.

Glide-Polka forward and backward and left and right;—eight measures of music.

Note.—Form the class in couples, arranged in a column around the sides ot

the gymnasium.

Digitized by LaOOQle
-29-

15th Exercise.

Three steps forw.-and point right in the fourth position in front 1—4; three steps, backward and point left in the fourth position in rear 5—8; Glide-Polkt left and right forward;—four measures of music.

16th Exercise.

Three steps forward and point the inside foot forward (beginning with outside foot) 1—4; three steps backward and point the outside foot backward 5—8; partners turn face to face and take the practice position (partners grasp each other’s arm below the elbow). Glide-Polka sideward;—eight measures of music; partners turn to the front and glide-polka forward with the inside foot;—two measures of music.

17th Exercise.

The couples standing in practice position. Glide-Polka sideward with a half turn on the last count;—two measures of music.

18th Exercise.

Three steps forward and point the inside foot forward 1—4; three steps backward and point the outside foot backward 5—8. The partners turn face to face and take the waltz position. (The inner partner— the gentlemen’s part—places the right arm around the partner’s waist, the left arm is raised sideward, palm upward; the outer partner—the ladys’ part—places the left hand on the partner’s shoulder and the right hand in the partner’s left.) Glide-Polka sideward with a half turn on the last count—two counts. Repeat the Glide-Polka;—two measures.

POISON RELAY RACE.

By MARY A. SMITH, Director of Physical Training, Yeatman High School, St. Louis.

Place twelve Indian clubs on the gymnasium floor in two spaces, each space about 2V& by IV2 feet, the spaces being about ten feet apart.

Have the clubs equal distances apart in the spaces, (see figure). Put a small chalk mark under each club, so that it may again be set up in its right place if overturned. Place a starting line about tenty-five feet from the clubs. (This distance may be longer if the space permits.)

_______________Divide	the	class	into	two	equal	divisions

(Team A and Team B) and have them stand behind the starting line and ten feet distant from each other in line with their six (6) clubs. Give the first member of each team a club. When the signal is given, the first one runs up and between the clubs (see tig.), taking care not to overturn any. Running back, he gives the club to the next one, who does the same thing.

If a club is knocked over the runner places the club he has in his hand on the mark and picks the overturned one up. (If more than one is turned over, one of the overturned ones is placed by the club carried and the others are set up in place).

The team finishing first is the winning team. When the whole team has run once, more clubs are placed, making the maze more difficult. I have used this game in my work and find it has met with much enthusiasm.

Digitized by ejOOQie
A CHEAP METHOD OF STERILIZING WATER IN SWIMMING TANKS.

By A. S. KEIM, M. D., Knoxville, Tenn.

Acting upon the suggestion of the City of Knoxville Water Company’s chemist, Mr. Wellington Donaldson, a series of experiments were made to test the efficiency of copper sulphate as a sterilizing agent in swimming tanks.

Commencing June 4, 1906, samples of the water were taken from a swim* ming tank every day for three days, and the result was an increase of from 500 to 9,000 bacteria per c.c. in that time. A solution of copper sulphate 1 to

1.000.	000 was tried on June 18th. On June 19th, or twenty-four hours later, a sample was taken. A plate made from this sample, after being in the incubator forty-eight hours at a standard temperature, showed very little development. In sixty hours the result was the same, the colonies that developed were practically all non-liquefying bacteria, while the plates made from the samples taken before the copper sulphate had been used developed liquefying bacteria almost entirely. The tank was emptied, cleaned and filled again on June 21st, 'and a solution of copper snlphate 1 to 500,000 tried. A sample taken this time showed 300 bacteria per c.c. On June 23rd another sample was taken which brought the count down to 1 per c.c., showing a comparatively sterile water.

While these experiments are not complete, compared with those made by Stokes and Thomas at Baltimore, Md., it seems to prove that copper sulphate is to be a valuable agent in keeping swimming pools free from germs. Dr. Stokes and Mr. Thomas in their urticle say: “The first series of our experiments consisted in the use of copper sulphate in the swimming tank in a dilution of 1 to

1.000.	000. Just before the use of copper sulphate the tank contained 2,400 bacteria per c.c., and also an organism producing about 95 per cent, of g^ in glucose, lactose and saccharose. A week before the colon bacillus was detected there were 3,300 bacteria per c.c. present. In forty-eight hours the count arose to 6,000, but no colon bacilli or other fermentation bacteria were detected in one or fifty c.c. of water, nor were colon or other fermentation bacteria found for the next five days.”

In the whole series of experiments made these gentlemen found the same results, namely, that while the copper sulphate had no effect on the water bacteria, it destroyed the colon bacillus in twenty-four to forty-eight hours in a solution of 1 to 1,000,000 or 1 to 500,000.

Moore and Kellermann have shown in their experiments that the typhus bacilli are more susceptible to the effect of the copper sulphate than the colon bacilli. It is, therefore, reasonable to suppose they will be destroyed as rapidly-. The water experimented with in the tank at Knoxville was filtered water and never showed more than 500 bacteria on the first day. It was found by the experiments at Baltimore that a solution of 1 to 100.000 would clear the water by precipitating the matter in suspension. This was not noticeable in the experiments at Knoxville; 1 to 500,000 was the strongest solution used and the water was very clear at the beginning.

One of the greatest problems in the use of swimming tanks is to keep the water pure and free from disease germs. The expense of filling a tank with fresh water every day is more than the average Association can stand. Copper sulphate or bluestone, as it is commonly called, can be purchased at 10 cents a pound. Eight ounces to 30,000 gallons will make a 1 to 500,000 solution. Thus, for five cents the water can be made practically sterile. A continuation of these experiments in other fields would be valuable in confirming the information already secured. The method of applying the sulphate of copper was to pulverize eight ounces, place it in a bag, tie a string to it and dra* it through the water up and down the length of the pool untihdissolved.—“Physical Training.”

(We hope that this practical, easily applied and cheap method of sterilizing water may be put into use immediately wheiever there are pools. But we also hope that the proper authorities will not forget that unless a thorough cleansing of the bathers with hot water and a liberal use of soap is rigidly enforced i»efore they are allowed to go into the water, a pool will soon degenerate into a nuisance. General experience has shown that after a week’s liberal use a basin filled with filtered water and having a constant small influx of warmed water

Digitized by tjOOQle
-31-

ought to be emptied, cleaned and scrubbed. Bluestone will not take care of everything that gets into a swimming pool.—St.)

ROWING.

By CHRISTIAN BROCAR Naugatuck, Conn.

This is an action story for the children of a lower grade. After formal gymnastics I found it to be very appropriate. Each row of seats is supposed to represent a shell. To add to the children’s imagination let the pupil nearest the front sit on the desk facing the oarsmen. His duty is that of the coxswain.

The actions are taken by command and are to be very formal. After a few introductory remarks relating to scenes on the shore, touching in particular the shell, one may proceed. The pupils are standing in the aisles. The teacher then continues:

Look at these long narrow boats (the teacher points to the rows of seats). They are shells. Oh! let us go out for a row! (the pupils face their seats). Step in lightly. Take your seats! (the coxswain upon his desk). Take hold of your oars! (Arms for thrust—bend, the knuckles up.) Push your oars back! (Trunk bending and arm thrusting forward.) Dip the oars! (A slight upward motion at the wrist.) Now pull! (Arms for thrust, knuckles up and trunk bending backward.) Push! Pull! or one! two! etc., gradually speeding up the count.

To the simple rowing, turning" the boat, variations like pulling only with the right oar, pushing with the left oar, or both simultaneously, may be added.

EXAMINATION FOR CREDITS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY.

It is encouraging that college and university authorities are beginning to recognize the value of motor training to their students. With the introduction of systematic physical training in all its branches, including swimming, fencing, wrestling, etc. under competent teachers and directors, a means has been found of testing students and giving to them credits lor attainments in physical education. Through the courtesy of Dr. Geo. L. Meylan, Director of the Gymnasium of Columbia University, we are able to present the system of examinations and credits in vogue at Columbia for freshmen and sophomores.

I. METHODS OF GRADING STUDENTS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Adapted to College Freshmen.

Maximum

1.	Written Examination, on the principles of personal hygiene................ 20

‘2. Swimming (ability to swim at least 100 It., using three different strokes)

and proficiency in diving.............................................. 20

3.	Subjective Control: Based on carriage maintained while standing and

walking, and the execution of twelve exercises of the trunk and extremities (free movements) = Two points for each exercise.............. 24

4.	Objective Control: Running high jump, 3'6" 3' 10", 4'2", 4'6".

Bar vault, 4', 4' 6", 5', 5' 6".

Swinging jump, 4', 4' 8", 5'4", 6'.

Two points for each height cleared..................................... 24

o.	Endurance: Combination jump and pull up between two vertical ropes fastened to the floor, and over a cross rope 20 inches from the floor.

Time limit: one minute. One point for every six jumps.................  12

Total points.................................................. 100

Digitized by C.ooQle
—32—

U. METHOD OP GRADING STUDENTS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

Adapted to College Sophomores.

Maximum

1.	Written Examination, on personal hygiene............................. 20

2.	Athletic Test. Three options:

a.	Winning a college championship.

b.	Earning a place on a Varsity Athletic Team.

c.	Taking one of the following tests:

1.	Running one lap (170 yards).

2.	Running five laps.

3.	Running ten laps. '

4.	Running high jump.

5.	Three standing jumps.

6.	Rope climb 35 feet against time.

7.	Swimming two lengths (200 feet).

8.	Swimming five lengths.

9.	Swimming ten lengths.

10.	Life saving test..........................................   20

3.	Subjective Control: Based on carriage maintained while standing and

walking, and the execution of twelve exercises of the trunk and extremities (free movements)........................................ 2*4

4.	Objective Control: Running high jump, 3' 9", 4' 3". 4' 9".

Distance straddle vault over buck, 4' 6", 6', 7' 6".

Rope climb, 12', 24', 35'.

Mounts on the horizontal bar:

a.	Back circle to front rest, bar at 5'.

b.	Pull and push up, bar at 6'.

c^ One leg swing up, bar at 7' 6".

Two points for each test accmplished successfully................. 24-

5.	Endurance: Combination jump and pull up between two vertical ropes

fastened to the floor, and over a cross rope 20 inches from the

floor. Timelimit: 90 seconds. One point for every ten jumps........	12

Total points................................................ 100

I like your paper “Mind and Body“ very much; it is so very superior to all those English journals which treat on physical education, and can only be compared with some of the better German Turnzeitungen.

Respectfully yours,

Adolf A. Stempbl,

Stempel’s Physical Training Institute, Gymnasium and Academy of Arms,

London, England.

GYMNASIUM SUPPLIES.

If you contemplate purchasing anything for the gymnasium you should have MEDART’S CATALOG.

It contains 80 pages of correct illustrations and concise descriptions of everything that is used in the gymnasium.

This catalog will be of value to you for the information it contains and as a guide to the proper equipment of the gymnasium.

It’s yours for the asking.

FRED MED ART* St. Eonis. Mo.

Manufacturer of Gymnasium Equipments.

Digitized by

Google
PHYSICAL DIRECTORS!

We need j?cu for positions paying $<>00 to $2,500. We need competent teachers of any subject who can also coach athletic teams or handle physical training work.

Over twenty universities, including such institutions as Wisconsin and Purdue, have secured instructors through us.

Let us assist you to a better place than you can secure through your personal efforts. Those desiring instructors or positions should write now.

THE PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS’ BUREAU, ,

1*12 S. Second Street. Rockford, III.

THE	—

New York Medical College

and Hospital for Women.

17—1‘j WEST 101st STREET, NEW YORK CITY.

44th Annual Session Opens October 1st; 1906.

Four Years* Graded Course, with Extension Course. Evening and Saturday Lectures, Five Years.

Instruction by Lectures, Clinicsrr Practical Work-in Anatomical, Chemical, Physiological, Histological, Pathological Laboratories. Daily Clinics and Operations in Dispensary and Hospital.

*	-	HELEN	COOLEY	PALMER,	M.	D.,	Deam

For Announcement address, Emily C. Charles, M. D., Secretary.

THE NEW HAVEN NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

OFFERS

A Two Years’ Course of Preparation for Teachers of Physical Training,

Course of Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

Sutnrtier Courses in Gymnastics and Athletics.

For Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to E. H. ARNOLD, M. D., Director,

307 York St.,

New Haven, Conn.

mts mu srmsrau

NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS.

568-SeS IHOADWAY

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN

For illustrated catalog, giving fall particulars, address GEOROS WITT1CH, Director.

HIGH GRADE

ATHLETIC

CLOTHING

WE MANUFACTURE IN OUR OWN FACTORY

MENS

BOYS

LADIES

GYMNASIUM

CLOTHING

BASE BALL FOOT BALL TENNIS HUNTING CLOTHING

DEALERS IN

EVERYTHING A SPORTSMAN OR ATHLETE WANTS.

&cttt> fov (CataloQuc.

RAWLINGS SPORTING GOODS CO

j 620 Locust Street, St. Louis, Mo |

Digitized by L.ooQle
GYMNASIUM  OUTFITTERS		
	Gymnastic Apparatus Lockers Bowling: Alleys Playground Apparatus  Anthropometric Apparatus	
NARRAGANS ETT MACHINE CO.  Wrtt.lore,.log* PROVIDENCE, R.I., U.S.A.		

YALE UNIVERSITY

SUMMER SCHOOL.

THIRD SESSION, JULY 8 TO AUGUST 16. 1907.

Special Courses in Physical Education.

Courses in practical and normal American Gymnastics by William G. Anderson; in theoretical and practical Swedish Gymnastics by Jacob Bolin; in German Gymnastics by Richard Pertuch; in Athletics by John Mack, the regular trainer for the Yale team. Other instructors will give courses in Apparatus Work, Artistic Gymnastics, Methods of Measurement, Prescription of Exercises, Games, Swimming, and theoretical subjects including Anatomy, Physiology, Education, Psychology, and Methods of Teaching.

High school graduation or its equivalent required for admission.

For circular giving full information address

YALE SUMMER SCHOOL,

135 Elm Street, New Haven, Conn.

'digitized IO(W lc*