MIND AND BODY

Vol. 29	APRIL, 1922 No.	307

NMished By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ute, Mb*

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah IfMlL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D.	M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A; STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Mfeartal communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as secernMast matter October 14, 1916, at ike poetoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 1879.

SOME MORAL ASPECTS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION *

BY ARTHUR HOLMES, PRESIDENT OF DRAKE UNIVERSITY, DES^MOINES, IOWA.

To give adequate significance to physical education it is necessary to set it in its proper relation to education in general. Education is both a process and a product. Considered as a process it is the making of habits, physical, mental, moral and religious, out of the inborn re-actions of the child. The re-actions are automatic like the heart-beat, which require no stimulations outside of the body; reflexes, unconscious actions, which do require stimuli outside the body, like breathing and digestion; instinctive actions, involving the whole organism, stimulated from outside the body and accompanied with consciousness; ideational actions, which are stimulated by ideas, are not only accompanied with consciousness of the act, but also of knowledge of its purpose or significance. From these four re-aCtions are formed habits, which in their pure state are unconsciously performed. Examples of such habits are the postures of people, the holding of one shoulder higher than the other, the stepping upon one foot harder than the other, talking with one side of the mouth, and many other similar common tricks and acts. These habits, and all others^ some accomapnied with consciousness, are the product of educational processes.

Such an idea, it will be seen immediately, introduces a new democracy into education. No longer are invidious distinctions made between mere book-learning and other habits. It is recognized that spelling “c-a-t”

* Delivered before Dept, of Physical Education, N. E. A., Des Moines, Iowa, July 6y 1921. Reprint Journal of the N. E. A

Digitized by i^.ooQLe
2

is merely a habit; the multiplication table another habit; sewing another; gymnastic exercises another; but all are education whether applied to metaphysical disputations or plowing corn.

There are indeed levels of education. The lowest is improvement, in which process the inborn instincts are improved by mechanical means or mere practice. A hound-dog naturally trails by scent, but he can be improved by mere mechanical practice. The next stage is training by means of imitation. Monkeys have that power in a high degree, and are therefore sometimes given credit for a high intelligence. Certain sub-normal human minds can learn only by being shown how to perform an operation and then doing it. The third stage is true education. Here the intelligence is so high that the person can be told how to do a thing and goes and does it. It is the symbolic stage of education, one in which symbols can be used for transmitting instruction from which habits can be formed.

It is on account of these three levels of educational ability, implicit in human experience but often unnoticed, that physical education has been placed by popular judgment and by many educators upon a low plane. Dealing as it does with physical movements easily seen and imi-* tated, and taught almost always by the imitative process alone, naturally and gradually the idea prevailed that students of such an art did not need the high powers of intellect necessary in other realms of learning.

Of course such a judgment has its modicum of truth. But the usual method of giving physical instruction by example and illustration, need not be the only one. Neither is it true that all students of physical education learn by observation alone. Response work is of an entirely different character. It demands thinking. In club swinging for example, some students listen to instructions, then form in their own minds an image of the movement, and then swing the clubs. Such a process of learning is on the highest plane and involves mental processes similar to those involved in learning any subject, like geometry, for instance. The glory of physical education, then, is its ability to aid students on any plane of ability; and in this universality of application it has especially demonstrated its utility in developing young children and syb-normal persons of all ages. On the other hand, the fact that it may be taught by correspondence proves its right to be classed with the highest types of education wherein symbolic knowledge is translated into physical habits.

Moral education, as indicated by our discussion above, considered as a product, consists of right habits; considered as a process it is the making of right habits. The making of right moral habits divides itself naturally into two methods; making habits by inculcating ideals of, which ideals by their idea-motor force bring about movements, direct these movements, and suggest other ideas. In other words, ideas are motive, directive and suggestive. This phase of moral education might properly be called moral instruction.

The other phase of it is making right habits by training, that is, by repetition of those actions which are considered right. Such repetition is often produced by the force of example, and appeals to the instinct of imitativeness, involving no intelligence higher than that found in small children or lower animals. Some thinkers, of course, would deny that

Digitized by

Google
3

such actions have any claim to being classified as moral, but we need not stop in the middle of a practical talk to discuss a theoretical question. Good habits can be and are formed by the repetition of proper actions, no matter what may be the reason in the mind of the agent for performing such actions. To such a process physical education undoubtedly holds a close relation. Therefore, it is the feasibility of such a process, and not its theoretical implications which are interesting to us.

The making of right habits implies also the proposition that we know what is right. This assumption is a practical as well as a theoretical one, and upon the answer to “What is right?” depends to a large extent the relation which physical education holds to morality.

If, for example, it is true, as intuitionism ethics has insisted it is, that man perceives right and wrong through his moral sense, in a manner somewhat similar to perceiving beauty through his aesthetic sense, then it might be hard to show that gymnasiums and athletic fields had anything to do with the matter. How such a sense could be whetted and sharpened and sensitized by the vigorous games and the mortal contests of the athletic battles carried on in our high schools and colleges, is not-only hard to understand, but is easy to feel how just the opposite result could be thought to ensue. Would not fine discussions on casuistical questions, deliberate and reflective meditations on moral stories and religious experiences as conducted in the universities, monasteries, Sunday Schools and Bible classes, would not these seem far more conducive to the development of that tender solicitude for the right which characterizes the institutionist who must depend upon a sharpened moral sense for making moral distinctions and a tender conscience for impelling him to moral habits? At any rate that has been the usual and common and almost universal method of moral training until recent years. The correlative fact that our penitentiaries have been fairly full, that adolescent crime has been increasing faster than the population, in spite of juvenile court procedures which reduce convictions in number and severity,Jmay and may not be somewhat of a commentary upon that system.

The difficulties with intuitionism as a method of knowing right aside from the feasibility of imparting a moral sense of any sort of instruction, is the fact that two intuitionists, both absolutely sure they are right about the same issue, may contradict each other. Slavery and prohibition are two great historical moral issues on which good people divided with entire sincerity and entire though opposite purity of conscience. Then, too, the same person, on the same moral issue, will through his moral sense from which there is no appeal, one time judge an action to be altogether wrong which later he will judge by the same sense to be altogether right. A young student who had lived in a country town permeated with a strong religious spirit, told me how when he first came to a large city to live he thought it absolutely wrong to ride on the streetcars on Sunday. Within six months after his moving there he had completely reversed his moral judgment, and scouted loudly any moral taint whatever in such riding. Though such a system of judging right and wrong is common and very widespread, and under the slogans, “Right for Right’s Sake.” “Virtue is its own reward” arouses for itself a strong enthusiasm, nevertheless, it is simply the old pagan ethics, impossible to pursue in all phases of life, and leading eventually when carried out to

Digitized by v^ooQle
4

its logical conclusion and practice to each one’s doing what is right in his own eyes.

Different from this intuitionism are the so-called rationalistic or reasonable systems of ethics. They set an end or goal of conduct and insist that any action is right which intends to reach that goal; and on the contraryr any action is wrong which intends to reach some other goal. The goals have been variously set. One is the greatest happiness of the greatest possible number of people. That objective involves at times sacrifices of the individual’s happiness, and is the system which most people, when they hear of it, immediately claim to be their own. Another related system sets the happiness of the individual, here and hereafter, as the final goal. These two systems can be harmonized by belief in a hereafter in which self-sacrifice in this earth will be compensated by greater happiness hereafter. Then other goals, not necessarily involving happiness, may be set, such as the largest or most varied possible experience, painful or otherwise. That seems to be somehow lodged in human desire and is brought out in the rebellious lines:

If I had lived in Eden I would ha’ climbed the wall!

For I want not only the sweets o’ life,

But. all, all, all!

Assuming that morality which is feasible and practical does set a goal, and that goal is either happiness or character in its widest and broadest sense, then moral education would be the formation of habits which would give happiness to self or others, or allow the individual habitually to experience the widest possible number of sensations.

To such a scheme it can be easily seen off-hand that physical education would immediately and powerfully minister. For physical education defined as the formation of muscle-habits, and especially large muscle-habits, with all the attendant involvement and action of nerves, bones, sensations, perceptions, memories, imaginations, and ratiocinations, would play as large and as vital a part as any other kind of education ever conceived or practiced by man. On this assumption the gymnasium and the athletic field would become not only palaces of physical health and enjoyment, but with the lecture hall and Sunday-school room, true means of instruction and training in that supreme art of living life to its fulness in the highest and finest meaning of morality.

To be more specific and therefore more helpful, let us investigate this relationship between physical and moral training in two rather broad phases of life experience. All of us are familiar with that psycho-physical parallelism which underlies all our theories of the relationships between matter and spirit. That theory, applied to thinking human beings, insists that mind and body are so intimately related that what touches one touches the other. It is simply impossible to take a human body into a gymnasium or out on the athletic field and leave the mind behind. Both are there. What affects one affects the other. If the mind sets as its deliberate moral goal in life the happiness of the largest number, then physical exercise holds some relation to that goal and its achievement. If health conduces to happiness, physical exercise as a past-discussion aid to health, also makes morals. If physical education is con-

Digitized by t^ooQle
5

ducive to efficiency, then that efficiency of body and mind applied to making people happy is enhanced. If posture, as the James-Lange adherents to the theory of emotions insist has much to do with the color of one’s own feelings, and these feelings have much to do with one's morals, then corrective gymnastics are essentially and far excellence moral trainers. Try to imagine a liar standing straight up, knees back, chest out, chin down, eyes level, looking the whole world in the face! Imagine a coward advancing with a decided step, left shoulder forward, jaw set, fists clenched, eyes half closed! No; all the words which describe the feelings attendant upon one kind or the other of a moral character describe more frequently and more accurately the physical attitudes and physical movements of the characters. Any physical education teacher, who possibly perfunctorily and blindly, teaches daily the humble “settingup exercises” ought to receive from the radiance of this higher conception of her work some sustaining and invigorating glow which will always transform her task from apologetic routine into that most holy art, the making of men and women in the broadest, biggest and best sense, a work surpassing any transfixing of no matter what poetic forms in dead paint or cold marble.

The other phase of life which to my mind is highly significant for relating physical and moral training is play. That human and animal activity which has had such a long and influential career upon earth, hat only comparatively recently succeeded to its proper place of importance as an educative factor in the thought of educators. Greece recognized its place in fulness; in Rome the vision was partially obscured; in Med-iaevalism it was swallowed up in black darkness; but the Renaissance rediscovered it with a twilight perception, and modern educators place it where it belongs, as the highest and most fruitful of all educational activities. Froebel spiritualized it and set it once for all above mortal pollutions with his supreme apotheosis: “Play is the purest and most spiritual activity of men.” Play which once marked the historic dates of Greece with its Olympiads, which has preserved some of the most fervid of religious experiences in its Passion Plays, which in pageants marches history before our eyes, and in games calls out the immortal spark of children and men, is to my mind the one pure and infallible teacher of morals.

Why is such a supreme place to be given to play? Simply because genuine moral education is fitting oneself to one's own world. That world for children, when morality is being most developed, is the pi ay-world. There, on the playground, in the games, a boy gets his first real conception of law. He finds that games cannot be played without rules. Elsewhere for him might makes right. His elders impose their wills upon ■him by their superior physical powers. In the “crowd,” or the “gang” the same holds true. The strong impose their wills upon the weak. In play, rides hold in check primitive, brutal, physical strength. Skill, in-teligence, agility, these and other qualities of higher civilization, come in to suppress and modify the advantages due to mere brute strength. They are capable of expressing themselves upon the results of the games because the rules of the game hotd. If one rebellious player breaks the rules the game goes to pieces; anarchy results; play disappears; the child's

Digitized by v^ooQle
6

world is shattered; his fun is gone; black calamity has arrived. Nowhere does he get that awful feeling of utter calamitous ruin so acutely as when it dashes in upon the joyous hilarity of a full-swinging game. Child-life feels that calamity to its inmost being, and feeling it, is prepared thereby for citizenship in a larger world of conservative order.

Again, he realizes law from the democratic point of view. The rules of the game are valid for him because he freely accepts them himself. They are not imposed from above, but accepted by all the participants as just and right. They are just and right because they preserve the points of the game; they permit the attainment of the goal. The game is saturated through and through with the deepest feelings the child player will ever experience. His emotions are at the highest pitch; his energies are enlisted with their utmost intensity; and still under this supreme strain he must keep the rules and play fair. Is there any experience in later life wherein there will be any factors different from these? Will there come any greater strain of temptation? Is not the playground then, the supreme moral trainer when it trains in habits which will accompany the adult in every activity of his life?

Of necessity this must be but a brief and sketchy treatment of a subject calling the mind into many of the widest and deepest of life’s experiences. The treatment of it so briefly can be only cursory and suggestive. If such treatment, however, leaves with the teachers of physical education any inspiration even for a moment, or any newer insight into the reaches of their profession, into those heights where we are accustomed to think that human inspiration and human satisfaction so essentially reside, then it is not in vain. Possibly meditation and reflection being added to these suggestions, genuine inspiration and permanent enthusiasm for this basic thing, physical education, will come and will carry the too much humbled teacher happily through days of joyous service. May each teacher be imbued always with the thought that while he is laying for his pupils the foundation of all higher life in strong and healthy bodies, by the miracle of that unity which constitutes personality he is also strengthening, purifying and beautifying that whole magnificent edifice called human character. It seems to me that the thought, if not the words of Edwin Markham, written in another connection, apply here with peculiarly inspiring power:

We men of earth have here the stuff Of Paradise. We have enough,

We need no other stones to build The stairs into the unfulfilled,

No other marble for the floors,

No other ivory for the doors,

No other cedar for the beam And dome of men’s immortal dream.

Here on the path of every day,

Here on the common, human way,

.	, Is all ,the stuff the gods would take

To build new Heavens. To mould and make < New Edens. Out of the stuff sublime To build Eternity in Time.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
7

THE PRIVILEGES AND COST OF MEMBERSHIP IN THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION.

Note—As some of the readers of Mind and Body are not members of the American Physical Education Association we publish the following statement with the hope that those teachers who are not members will apply for membership in the national association.

The Council, by a mail vote, have raised the dues for membership in the Association to $j a year. This is slightly less than ten cents per week. The sustaining membership remains at $10 per year. The membership dues for normal school students will be $3 per year. All these are to include the Review, and other privileges of membership in the Association.

THE AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION REVIEW AND NATIONAL CONVENTIONS.

The first service of the Association to its older members was an annual convention. The proceedings of these conventions were published once a year. Membership in the Association was $1, and included this report. In 1896 it was felt that some means should be adopted to keep the members living at a distance from convention centers more closely in touch with headquarters. The Council, therefore, started the American Physical Education Review as a quarterly, with membership dues of per year, including the Reveiw. In this magazine were published the reports of conventions, and additional material secured by the editor. In 1907 a need was felt for further service to members, and the Council voted to publish the Review monthly during the school year, with dues of $3 V*r year, including the Review.

During the first twenty-four years, the Association held fifteen conventions. During the last thirteen years, thirteen national conventions have been held, and nineteen district conventions. These make thirty-two conventions in all, held during the last thirteen years. There have been a number of sections formed that have had annual meetings, and a large number of more or less active local societies. The districts, sections and local societies all have had reports published in the Review. In ad-addition to the affiliated societies, a number of allied societies have had reports printed in the Review. A permanent record of professional achievements is therefore found in the reports of the Association and in the Review.

BUREAU OF SERVICE AND ADVICE FOR PERSONAL USE, BOOK EXHIBIT AND BOOK SALE DEPARTMENT,

The Review was started, primarily, to aid the corresponding secretary to keep in touch and help the members of the Association. The book department and the publishing of the bibliography in the Review were started entirely to answer the needs of the members. Inquiries concerning literature which were being received could only be answered by persons who knew the literature. Much of the best material for teachers is found in current magazine articles. A bibliography compiled by Mr. Affleck was started in 1910, and has been continued to date. Published books can only be obtained with the co-operation of the publishers, and this co-operation can only be secured by the introducing of, or selling of* books. The Association introduced a book sale department in 1912.

Digitized by Google
8

It has been found that the function of the Association in relation to books, is introductory and advisory. The members want tb know:

(1)	What old standard books are still obtainable, where, and at what price?

(2)	What are the new books, and what is their value?

(3)	What particular book is adapted to a particular need?

(4)	Where can books be obtained for examination?

A cash business, at net prices, with carriage additional, will cover the sale of single copies ordered by individual members, provided members know what they want. But this kind of business can be done equally well and sometimes better by local bookstores. To function properly, a book department for the Association should publish and distribute a carefully selected book list. Every book in our book list has been personally examined. This means the correspondence with, and the co-operation of, over one hundred different publishers, with the necessary examination of many additional books rejected from the list. The book department should have at hand the most popular books for examination. This has led to the book exhibit. The book department should keep in touch with the live physical directors and find out the books that physical directors should buy, as well as what they want to buy. This means correspondence with the leading physical directors and attendance at conventions.

The published bibliography and book lists have helped much, but they lead to personal service. To suggest new books, to tell where to secure the particular book adapted to a particular need, to secure a book for examination,—this is personal service, which is expensive. Then, too, there are many teachers of physical education who are not members of the Association, who do not read the Review or the bibliography, who ask and expect the Association to furnish free lists of books and personal letters of advice. It is a well-known fact that no bookstore can live today without its accessories,—and how much less can a mail order business of personal service and advice be self-supporting through publishers’ discounts?

NATIONAL PROMOTION AND PUBLICITY.

In connection with the development of physical education since the war, many requests for advice and help have come to the national office. Members, interested in promoting national and state physical education legislation have written for help and advice. They have referred to the national office questions they were unable to answer. The.United States Bureau of Education refers questions to our National Association office. The Playground and Recreation Association of America and other national bodies refer technical problems to the national office for sugestion. State and city superintendents of schools have asked advice in introducing courses of physical education.	,	.

The American Physical Education Association has gradually become known as a national clearing-house for technical problems in physical education.	,

THE RAISE OF THE DUES.	■	?

In 1907, with increased service (the Review-: changed to »a monthly), the dues were raised from $2 tow$2. This raise in comparison with the

Digitized by LjOOQle
9

teachers* salaries and money value of the dollar was as great as the change just voted. What was the effect upon the membership? First, a slight temporary loss, followed by larger gains than ever before. Why?

Because of Service. The physical directors want service, and will pay for it. At the Council meeting in Oakland, and again in New York at Christmas time, when it became clear that our present policy of giving service could not continue without raising the dues, the vote to do this was unanimous. Methods might differ, but the policy was the same. During the war some of our friends have paid by gifts for this service. The officers and Council have given the best they can to the members. Do you want it kept up? Less than ten cents per week from each physical director will prove to yourself, to your friends, and to the friends of physical education, that all high-grade physical directors believe in the sane and scientific program of physical education which the American Physical Education Association is promoting, through its conventions, its magazines, its sections, its district, state and local affiliated societies, its co-operation with other national associations, its bureau of personal service and advice, its ability and willingness to aid state and national legislation, and its endeavor, through a carefully endorsed membership, to place the stamp of approval of the National Association upon character and education in its physical directorship.

The report of the Council meeting, with interesting tables showing the growth of the Association in members, service and financial receipts and expenditures, will appear in the March Review.

PSYCHOLOGY, PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND HUMAN BEHAVIOR

BY DANIEL B. LEARY PH. D. UNIVERSITY OF BUFFALO, N, Y.

The above title has served for some time to bind together in my mind certain reflections and judgements concerning modern society and its type of culture and living. That society in the largest sense of the term is, in some sense, at present undergoing a process of transformation and, let us hope, reformation, is a commonplace; that psychology, particularly in its recent researches and experimental work, can suggest some, at least, of the underlying causes of the current unrest, is probably also a commonplace. It is the intention of the present paper to suggest certain correlations of social, psychological and physical educational thought as a basis for a concerete program of physical education, a program that is neither purely disciplinary, nor purely preparatory, as was wont to be the characteristics of the older school, but one more in line with both the newer sociology and the newer psychology.

When we survey the present system of living in its largest sense, or some portion of it with which we are intimately familiar, we tend always to judge it in terms of some abstract or formal standard, derived probably from that mass of information which we have gathered concerning previous cultures and civilizations. It is, perhaps, in any individual case impos-

* Abstract of address given at the Second Annual Convention of the American Physical Education Association, Eastern District.

Digitized by LjOOQie
IO

sible to show that we are in possession of an absolute andeternal standard which we are thoroughly justified in applying indiscriminately to any and all cultures and periods. Yet, consciously or unconsciously, we tend at times to elevate whatever standard we believe to be the best history can show to just such a position of objectivity, without any Substantial justification or a thorough examination of our grounds for so doing. An examination of certain typical ideals, even if we exaggerate them a bit for the sake of contrast, will make the point clearer, f shall use for this purpose ideals which are still held, here and there in present society, to be not only good, but to be the best which human thought has evolved. It is in ter his of these ideals that we judge the worthiness of present times and tend to'estimate what progress civilization * has made. I have in mind such ideal types as the ascetic, the mystic, the Stoic and the Epicurean, the all around Greek of the Periclean Period, the hero of the Renaissance and the so-called modern, “successful” type. All these, to my way of thinking, are purely abstract conceptions though, to be sure, . they were worked out in concrete situations and any one of them, it is . quite apparent, is judged to be good or bad, rather because we side with it or some other type and think it best, than because we have any real measure or standard to compare it with.

The ascetic, to examine this type in some little detail, has some how or other cut himself loose from the real world of everyday activity, judging it to be unworthy of interest, and has prided himself on the cultivation of a few of the many possibilities of human nature, calling them directly, or by implication “best” and implying that all should follow his example in living in terms of them. In particular, he neglects and despises those characteristics of human nature which we are wont, even in present days, to somewhat slurringly refer to as the physical and physiological and thinks that the aim both of the individual and the group should be, in spite of the physical machine, to gain independence of it and live a life untouched by it. Modern education, it seems at times, has not become altogether free of certain ascetic colorings, in that those who have seemingly utilized the machinery of modern education to the greatest extent have done so at the expense of vital and physical well-being and seem not merely indifferent to these, but proud of their apparent emancipation from them.

The intellectual, as a type, is not particularly different from the ascetic, as just described, for, though he may lack the particular religious bias which the latter exhibits in proportion as his “other-wordliness” is typical, he too tends both to ignore and despise the characteristics and possibilities of physical life and activity. In comparison with these two narrow types, with whom in large measure the Stoic and Epicurean may be grouped, the Greek of the Periclean age is a pleasing and inspiring contrast. There, if nowhere else in the history of culture, we find an attempt and quite a successful attempt to develop a human being consciously aware of all the possibilities of his inheritance, racial, cultural and physical. We find there the judgement of a man to be an inclusive judgement; to be a Greek, in the sense of the period to which we have just referred, was to be, first, physically vital and alert, even skilled; secondly, to be intellectually keen and capable; thirdly, to have not only interest and concern but real ability in* discussing and handling the

Digitized by i^ooQle
II

‘political and civic problems of the time; fourthly, to exhibit proper rea-lations in family and social life, and lastly to have not only an appreciation of art, but a keen judgment of its values and to show this artistic ability not only in problems emphatically aesthetic, but in the organization of all the other aspects of his life, grouping and arranging them into a harmonious unity.

A still different type is that which might be called the modern “successful” type in present day society, a type which judges its success, or is judged successful by others, not in the terms of asceticism or religious orthodoxy, nor yet in terms of intellectual attainment, .but in the eminently modern terms of money and power. There is no attempt to know or be learned in the older, or even modern sense of the term, nor yet to be physically vital and alive, nor does the element of art enter either in its narrow sense, or in the larger social sense, as with the Greek.

These types, as has been said, are exaggerated, but it is none the less apparent that they do apply, on the whole, both to different periods of history, as well as to different cultures and groups in our present civilization. It is particularly the opportunity of present physical educational work to become increasingly aware of such different types of culture and to work with other agencies toward the resurrection and restoration of something akin to the point of view of the Greek of the Periclean period; but, as I have said before, we need standards and norms, for if our endeavor is to be in any sense scientific, it can become so only in proportion to the amount and the exactness of the measurements we can exhibit. There is, happily, one standard to which we can appeal, both as the sources of measurements and as the standardffrom which we can judge deviations. This standard is the so-called “original nature” of human beings. It is worth noting that this conception of “original nature,” while more or less modern in its present definition is something to which appeal has heretofore often been made. We are familiar, for example, with that conception of original human nature which condemned it, in its entirety, as bad, evil and sinful, and Rosseau has made us acquainted with that contrasting conception in whichVit^is thought of as inherently good and nothing but good. This is not^what is meant here. To the psychologist “original human nature" is a term by which he thinks of our inheritance, of a vast number of instincts, reflexes and mechanisms, all of which, from the purely laboratory point of view, are thought of neither as good nor bad, but simply as characteristic of the human psycho-physical machine. By this he means that a human being, merely in virtue of his birth, tends without having to learn to do so, to act in certain ways in certain circumstances and, thefpsy-chologist adds, borrowing a bit from other sciences, this “original human nature,” in spite of individual differences here and there, is, in its largest aspect, common to all human beings as such. He sees its source in past human and animal evolution as the result of constant reaction to an ever changing environment and, again borrowing, he realizes that the modern environment, that which we call civilization, even if we push its beginnings back for some 10,000 years, is none the less a comparatively-new one, whereas the environment in which human nature in its fundamentals was developed was not only vitally different, but the period throughout which it worked was in proportion to the 10,000 years we have mentioned

Digitized by Google
la

incomparably longer. The psychologist, however, does not view original human nature as a mere addition, or summation of various characteristics and mechanisms, but as an integrated whole or unity and has every reason to suspect that disturbances in part of the whole mechanism, will, in some sense, reflect themselves in other parts and that it is not possible for a human being with such an age-old endowment to function thoroughly and satisfactorily in some few lines at the expense of all the rest.

Other psychological characteristics are needed to complete the picture. While the psychologist is not willing to call original nature either ‘good* or 'bad/ he has arrived at a conception of what might be called the "biologically good" and the "biologically bad" and by these he has reference to a certain feeling-tone, or characteristic of human beings when reacting to a stimulus. Some examples will perhaps make this point clearer. When a given mechanism involving, it may be, certain sense organs, muscles and nerves is, by virtue of adequate rest and food, in a condition to act and function, to do so is good, and not to do is bad. When we are, for example, hungry and the whole system of digestive and associated organs, muscles and nerves is ready for food, to eat is good biologically and fundamentally; not to eat under such circumstances is likewise biologically and fundamentally bad. This conception of good and bad, if no further limited or characterized, would probably be called purely individualistic. This criticism, however, is not at the moment apropos. The point involved will be considered later in the paper.

Following out this conception of biologically good and bad and applying it roughly in criticism of the different types mentioned above, it is apparent from such a point of view that neither the ascetic, the intellectual, nor the modern "successful" type is entitled fundamentally to biological and psychological approval, for in each of these cases certain abilities and capacities have been developed at the expense of others; not only at the expense of others, but, it is further claimed, at the very expense of the full power of those characteristics which were developed. Judged then as a psycho-physical mechanism, the devotee who has been following one narrow line of development has paid not only the biological price of dissatisfaction in the case of those mechanisms which he has not developed, but has handicapped himself in the development of those very characteristics through which he had hoped to make life worth while. This is, to put it in other words, the problem of repression, a problem as old evidently as civilization, for it has usually seemed somehow or other, except to the mind of the Periclean Greek, that the socalled higher values of civilization could be obtained only at the expense of and repression of the lower. It is apparent, however, in the light of better knowledge, that the real problem with reference to human nature is not one of repression for the sake of the higher values, but one rather of redirection; that is, coming back to our earlier point, while human nature, individualistically considered, is neither good nor bad, when human beings are gathered into groups, it becomes socially quite definitely good or bad.

It is said, for example, that there is no place in modern civilization for the hunting instinct, or the fighting mechanism, because it is claimed,

Digitized by v^ooQle
13

the operation of such characteristics leads inevitably to war, race prejudice and so on. It is quite apparent, however, that both the fighting and hunting mechanisms can be turned equally well to hunting and fighting other things than human beings. It has been claimed, in this connection, that physical training leads to the development of just such mechanisms as well as unusuable muscles and ability, the heed for which in present civilization has, in large measure, been done away with by the introduction of machinery. This argument would seem, however, to assume certain facts that are not true; first, that the only value of muscle development lies in using it for tasks which machinery now accomplishes; secondly, that it has no value as a fundamental basis upon which to develop the higher capacities of the individual’s inheritance.

Underlying this criticism of the value of physical development and vitality on the part of the ascetic, the intellectual and the modern “successful” type, is the false contrast of mind and body, thinking and doing. The popular saying of a sound mind in a sound body perhaps illustrates the fallacy. Mind and body are not properly to be thought of as separate things. It is quite apparent that without the initital activity of muscle and sense organs, what we call the mind would never develop. Furthermore the popular conception of doing as a concrete activity involving muscle exertion contrasted with the equally popular conception of thinking as a mysterious something which goes on inside one’s head, is clearly false. Without going into the vexed question as to whether in the long run thinking it itself merely a type of highly specialized muscle acticity, this much is at least acceptable, namely that the line between thinking and doing is one impossible clearly to draw. They both are activities of psycho-physical organism as a whole and efficiency in one in the long run increases efficiency in the other. Thinking, from this point of view, might well be thought of as a tentative or trial activity, leading finally to a more overt and objective result. The significance of thinking lies in the fact that it enables us both to postpone definite and crucial action as well as permitting the utilization of innumerable past experiences for the solution of present difficulties. But even granting this point, it is apparent it is ultimately for the sake of overt conduct and is in no sense merely for its own sake, and the final overt activity requires muscle and co-ordinated action. Yet certain of the types we have considered have not only been unaware of this practical and overt significance of consciousness, but have elevated it and its activities as such to the supreme place in human behavior.

Speaking in terms of history rather than of individuals, it is apparent that in proportion as concrete activity gave place to pure leisure in any group of peoples, in proportion as the slave class, or machinery, did for them the things their own nature was intended to do that civiliaztion declined. We, of the present era, have settled probably once and all the question of slavery, but insofar as we depend exclusively on machinery for the compassing of objective changes, we find ourselves in the same postition, individually and as a group, as those who have relied on the labor of slaves. Bacon, in no uncertain terms, called attention to the fact that science was for the sake of human growth and betterment and that in no sense was man for the sake of science. Yet just in proportion aa we neglect the development and functioning of the physical characterist-

Digitized by L^ooQle
14

ics of our total inheritance, we not only squander and waste our inherited health and vitality, but tear down the foundations on which alone can be raised the higher values of our civilization.

If we turn to another aspect of the whole question, we come to the problem of 'conscious control/ The conception of conscious control has both its social and individual bearings, and is in part much the same problem as that of redirection. The emotions, for example, of fear, anger and rivalry are, in themselves, neither particularly good nor bad. With reference, however, to the direction that we take and the things which are feared, or which cause anger, the social judgement good or bad may indubitably be made. The phenomena of crowd behavior show many examples both in the field of conscious control and the redirection of tendencies. When we have seen in the laboratory, the clinic, and the hospital the number of people who suffer as individuals from having lost conscious control of their physical carriage, the phenomena of digestion, circulation, and co-ordination of muscles, we realize two things; first, that not merely the individual has suffered, but that, secondly, through the disability of the individual the group itself has lost innumerable values which these individuals in a better state of health would have offered. The increasing use of glasses both by adults and children, the apparent increase in stammering and kindred phenomena point again to the fact that by emphasizing the so-called intellectual characteristics of human nature, we have not merely neglected the others, but allowed them to become in some measure disintegrated. We pride ourselves on the fact that the length of life of the average human being increases century by century. We pride ourselves that we have in a large measure conquered scourges and plagues and that our meedical technique has reached a high point of development. Yet there is no basis on which we can claim that mere length of life, mere quantity of existence represents either progress, or civilization. Quite on the contrary, it is the quality of life which we should both investigate and control, but quality of of life implies just what was spoken of before as the utilization of all the biological good that can be made use of in a society, the picking out, that is, of those characteristics of a human being, which are at one and the same time good to the individual and good to the group. From the point of view of physical education, this emphatically means the development of physical ability and skill but, be it noted, not from the point of view of developing mere brute strength or exhibition tricks, but from the point of view of giving exercise and freedom to that side of human nature. We have read that the average intellectual age of the people of the United States is some 13 years, and this in spite of the long continued insistence and practice of intellectual activities and values. One wonders what would be the average quotient in health and vitality, in mere quality of existence and, further, one wonders whether the purely intellectual quotient would not itself be raised with a greater and more continued attention to the physiological and vital characteristics with a consequent development of a larger store of energy and activity to draw upon.

Physical education, then, is no mere adornment, no mere preparation for war or labor, nor yet an idle attainment whereby the few who have it may amuse, as in the decadent days of Rome the undeveloped multitude. It is, first, the means whereby there may be preserved to the jh-

Digitized by LjOOQie
*5

dividual the inheritance of health and vitality to which it has been his lot to fall heir; secondly, it is the medium whereby true and lasting and fundamentally good values in the biological sense will be obtainable, making thereby for quality as well as length of existence; and, finally, it is the secure basis on which alone the heavy and but recently acquired superstructure of the intellectual life may safely be reared. Sound health, sure and delicate conscious control, a balanced nature akin to the ideal of the Greeks at their best, - these are some of the foundations of that society called Utopia.

THE IMPORTANCE OF VITAMINEB IN THE DIET.

BY LAWRENCE A. AVERILL, EDITOR OF THE AMERICAN JOURNAL OF HYGIENE.

It has until recently been supposed that provided one ate certain common foods in the proper amounts, health, in so far at least as diet is concerned, would take care of itself. Such common foods were assumed to be protein, carbohydrates and fats, with a seasoning of iron and calcium and phosphorus. Somewhat recently, however, the results of certain careful experiments upon animal nutrition have tended to up^-set our theories, at least partially, by suggesting the necessity of three additional food materials in the diet which previously had not been heard of by the laity and had only partially been understood by the scientist.

Experimenting in 1881 upon the diet of mice, Lunen discovered that while mice could live for an almost indefinite period upon a diet of milk, they succumbed very quickly (i. e., within a month’s time) when fed a. diet of what is commonly believed to be the essential ingredients of milk; casein, fat, milk sugar and ash. From these experiments he concluded that there must be in milk certain indispensable elements besides those commonly known.

Following the pioneer work of Lunen, Hopkins, an English scientist, Osborn and Mendel, of Yale, and McCullun and Davis of Johns Hopkins, have succeeded in establishing the existence of three accessory food elements in certain substances, and to them the name vitamines has been given. Thus far, it is true, no one had succeeded in actually isolating any of these three elements, nor in analysing very actually their chemical or physical properties. Experiments in the diet of animals, however, have seemed to demonstrate beyond a doubt the presence of all three of them in certain food products. As to how great quantities of them are requisite to the diet of human beings, and how great quantities are contained in food stuffs, nobody yet knows. About the only positive information we have, in addition to the knowledge that they exist, is that a complete lack of these elements in the diet may and does lead to actual disease, and that too great deficiency in them may be responsible for ill health and retarded growth in the young.

The names which the investigators have given to these three mysterious food elements are: (i) fat soluble A; (a) water soluble B; and

Digitized by v^ooQle
i6

(3) anti-scorbutic C. Following is a brief description of each of these three substances.

FAT SOLUBLE A.

This vitamine owes its name to the fact of its solubility in fat. It is found chiefly in solution in animal fats, butter, cream, egg yolk, beef fat, fish oils, etc., but does not occur to any appreciable extent in vegetable oils. In addition to these, Fat Soluble A is found commonly in two other sources: glandular organs (liver, kidneys, pancreas) and leaves of vegetables (asparagus, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, lettuce, celery). It is believed that Fat Soluble A is of prime importance in the promotion of normal growth in young people, and that it acts as a preventive against rickets, on the one hand, and xerophthalmia, (a vicious disease of the external coating of the eye) on the other.

The history of the diets prescribed for tuberculosis sufferers throws an interesting light upon the importance of Fat Soluble A. It has long been known that a generous dietary reacts favorably upon the tuberculous patient, and now comes the significant revelation that those very foodstuffs most universally regarded as essential in the feeding of consumptives are particularly rich in Fat Soluble A. Among such foods may be mentioned cream, milk, butter, eggs, cod liver oil, etc.

Dietitians are now recommending that at least one of the foods containing Fat Soluble A (and preferably two of them) should appear daily in the diet of growing children if they are to grow normally and maintain their health in prime condition. It is likewise essential that adults, in the interest of strength and resistance power, should see to it that such foods find a prominent and constant place in their menu. Of particular importance is it that pregnant and nursing mothers should have a liberal supply of Fat Soluble A in their diet. In this connection it is pointed out that bottle-fed babies are not the only ones who are subject to attack from rickets. Breast-fed infants may, if the mother's milk is deficient in Fat Soluble A, fall easily prey to this disease, since obviously their only source of supply of this very essential element is the milk of the mother. Not only is the infant whose diet lacks the proper amount of the soluble incurring the risk of becoming ricketty, but in addition it is suffering deprivation of a substance which seems to be indispensable to normal growth at a period when the growth impulse can ill brook interference.

WATER SOLUBLE B.

As its name would indicate, the second of the three important vit-amines may be dissolved in water, and is often referred to as Water Soluble B. With the exception of white flour, white rice, sugars, starches and fats, and possibly a few other foods, this soluble is found in some quantities in all natural foodstuffs. Hence there is little danger of any diet being deficient in it. The chief sources of Water Soluble B are the seeds of plants, eggs and highly cellular organs, such for example as liver. Flesh contains comparatively little. Yeast cells are a rich source of this element, hence the modern popularization of the eating of yeast as a cure-all. In the legumes (peas and beans) the soluble is distributed tolerably evenly throughout the seed, .whereas in cereals it is concentrated in the germ and outer layer. Consequently the milling process removes the

Digitized by
17

greater part of Water Soluble B, which remains in the bran. For this reason bran is believed to be a very beneficial adjunct to the dietary.

Since Water Soluble B is dissolvable in water, it tends to cook out of vegetables which are boiled, and if the water is thrown away this vitamine is obviously lost. Whenever possible, therefore, such water ought to be made use of in soups or gravies. Vegetables baked or steamed, rather than boiled, preserve the soluble intact so that its value as a vita-mine is not lost. Water Soluble B appears an essential in the diet as a promoter of growth in the young and as a preventive against antineuritic conditions, also beri-beri.

ANTI-SCORBUTIC C.

The third vitamine has been named Anti-Scorbutic C, in recognition of its virtue as a preventive and cure for scurvy. Like Water Soluble B, it is soluble in water. Among the most common sources from which we derive this vitamine are fresh vegetables and fruits. Foods that are richest in this element include lettuce, cabbage, turnips, tomatoes, raspberries, oranges and lemons. Potatoes, while relatively poor in content of Anti-Scorbutic C, probably are the chief preventive against scurvy in the northern countries where other vegetables are rare, by reason of the fact that they comprise a very large part of the diet. Dried vegetables, it is interesting to note, are deficient in Anti-Scorbutic C, as are all canned vegetables and canned meats. Canned fruits and tomatoes, on the other hand, because of their acidity increase the stability of the vitamine and its destruction is consequently in a measure prevented, although it exists in less quantity than in the fresh fruit.

In environments where fresh vegetables or fruits are not available, Anti-Scorbutic C may be supplied in sufficient quantities for the dietary by means of moistening the available seeds, such as wheat, barley, rye, peas, beans and lentils, and allowing them to sprout. Sprouts on vegetables thus treated are relatively rich in content of Anti-Scorbutic C and may be cooked (the shorter time, the better) and served in the ordinary way.

All bottle-fed infants require an extra Anti-Scorbutic, since cow's milk, even when raw, is poor in this element, and when heated or Pasteurized or otherwise preserved the vitamine is still further reduced. The best anti-scorbutic food to use for this purpose is orange juice, although tomato juice and grape juice are excellent. In the case of breast-fed babies, it is important that the diet of the mother contain an adequate supply of fresh fruits and vegetables.

IMPORTANCE OF VITAMINES IN THE DIET.

It is now pretty generally admitted that failure to include these vitamines in large quantities in the diet hot only may result in retarded growth and development and a lessened resistance to disease in childhood, but may actually be responsible for lowered resistance power in adults and even lead to such specific diseases as rickets, scurvy, xerphthal-mia and beri-beri. The effect upon the nervous system of a dietary deficient in these important elements may be profound, and it has been demonstrated by scientists that a diet otherwise adequate will, if deficient in vitamines, lead in many cases to abnormal development of the bony tissue, particularly of the teeth. Absence of vitamines may be a cause of prolonged retention of the temporary teeth, delayed eruption of

Digitized by ^.ooQle
It

the permanent set, irregularity in alignment, defective enamel, decalcification, and even loosening of the teeth.

Important as are the vitamines in the adult dietary, they are even more so in the diet of the growing child, if development is to be regular and growth normal. It would be an extremely interesting thing if we could know approximately what percentage of the malnutrition, rickets and other disorders of growth and development in children of school age is traceable to deficiencies in vitamines. The indications are that the percentage would be a high one.

The recent research into the nature and value of the vitamines has served to complicate still further the already complex problems of health and disease. Taken together with modern discoveries of the action of the glands of internal secretion, and their relationship to normal functioning of the organism, this newest discovery serves to emphasize anew the age-long problems connected with the efficiency of the human machine, and to suggest that after all many of the secrets of health and disease •have not yet been ferreted out.

(Adapted from an article entitled “Vitamines or Accessory Food Factors,” by Mrs. Alzira Wentworth Sandwall, of the Massachusetts State Department of Health, in The Commonwealth, Vol. 8, No. J—Ed.)

A TIP FROM THE ENGLISH SCHOOLS *

BY CLEMENT E. FOUST, PHILADELPHIA.

A group of us was watching a cricket match at the old Winchester School in England. In the course of play, the ball ran out of bounds and one of the party picked it up. A fielder nearest us approached, took the ball, gave thanks, and resumed play. The impression of that Winchester boy has strangely stayed in the mind, one of the sharpest and most persistent, from a summer in the British Isles. The recollection lasts perhaps because so pleasing. He was the typical public school boy—clean, virile, lithe, shock-haired and wind-tanned; whose manner was most pleasing as he said in quiet English tones, “I thank you, Sir.” Here was something that came pretty close to ideal.

The Englishman’s love of sport is known, of course, the world over. More than a love, with many it is a definite philosophy of life. They believe in it as a check against effeminacy, old age, and decay. With the great war breaking over England, Mr. Britling and the family, it is recalled insisted on their Sunday hockey. English Secondary Schools reject this view. Eton has long found need not for a single athletic ground, but for seven great fields, each separately named, Upper Club, Middle Club, Lower Club, Upper Sixpenny, Sixpenny, Jordan, and Mesopotamia. These fields occupy forty-two acres, and provide some twenty odd cricket pitches. Approximately five hundred boys can thus play cricket at Eton at once. And this only accounts for the “dry-gobs.” Meanwhile the ^'wet-bobs” swarm the Brocas, as the neighborhood of the boat houses is called, and engage in the most diversified aquatic sports—passing, pulling,

* Reprint from l*The News Letter” Philadelphia Teachers Association.

Digitized by
*9

single sculling, junior sculling, and so on. At Harrow similar conditions prevail. On Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays during the summer term, Mr. Marteneau tells us, between the hours of two and six, seven cricket games are commonly in progress on the Upper and Lower grounds. On Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, between six and eight-thirty, compulsory “house games’' are played, from which a boy can only be released by a formal excuse from the house captain. No Harrow boy goes through the school who cannot swim, except for physical reasons, at least seventy yards. At Rugby besides the football, the cricket, the racquets, the fives, the hard ball and soft ball, the shooting, and the tennis, there is the compulsory running. The courses have been traditionally fixed for years, and lead through fields, along lanes, into woods, over foot-paths, across brooks. Lees Knowles in his account of the Rugby games tells of a Steeple Chase that had in the course of a mile and a half, ten hedge jumps and fourteen water jumps. Perhaps the “Crick” is the most famous school run in the world. About 2 o’clock on a day in the first week of December, says Mr. Knowles, every Rubgy boy heads for the “Quad Gates.” A couple of boys with bags strapped to their sides are released as hares. Ten minutes later off go the hounds, and the whole field runs to Crick village, and back, a distance of some ten or twelve miles.

Nor is this universal participation in sport common to the great public schools only. There is, for example, the Brampton House School at Hornsea near Hull, with which I am indirectly acquainted. Bramptoll House is the typical middle class boarding school. From 8:30 to 9 and from 12:30 to 1, five days in the week, the boys are hard at soccer ban or cricket boobie. At 4 o’clock the compulsory sport of the day begins. Every boy in the school must get into soccer or cricket togs and jog off to an oval a half mile away. Masters accompany the boys with rolls and tick off absentees. Very often they coach, participate, and, as my informant added with recollections far from uniformly pleasant, force every boy into a run home from the field, following in the rear to see that none lagged. On Saturday mornings, weather permitting, there is surf bathing, while the afternoons are regularly devoted to the weekly soccer or cricket matches arranged by the Soccer Secretary. On Sunday afternoons, from 2:30 to 6, come the invariable Sunday walks to distant points of interest.

This attitude of the English schools towards play, it seems to me, has many points of wisdom. First of all, it secures participation in sport for “the many who need it most” instead, as too often in America for “the few who need it least.” It affords a sharp and instructive contrast to our own school and collegiate athletics—a grandstand seating twenty thousand cheering frantically two teams of eleven men each. Secondly, it takes the boy right at the critical adolescent period, and braces his morals by rigorously developing his body. Hard play out of doors the English Schoolmaster has long counted a capital defense against morbidity. Finally, such play gives the best sort of social training. Parents have always asked of schools and colleges that they teach pupils, somewhere how to dress and behave and meet people. For social activity of a kind, the playing field and the tennis court afford matchless opportunities. And then, of course, competitive games feed those deeper social virtues— patience, loyalty, pluck under defeat, modesty with victory.

Digitized by L^ooQle
20

11 WHAT IS THE MATTER WITH HOT WATER?”

An Englishman’s Challenge of American House-Heating Practice.

BY F. BROADHURST CRAIG, MEMBER, BRITISH INSTITUTION OF HEATING AND VENTILATING ENGINEERS.

Though it has not yet been my privilege to visit America, I have closely studied the various systems of heating and ventilation most commonly used, as set forth by its several very able authorities. The Heating and Ventilating Magazine has been a welcome arrival in my office for a number of years, and, en passant, I often wish we had a journal of its calibre on this side.

What has very forcibly struck me on frequent occasions, is the extraordinarily few references made to low-pressure hot water as a heating medium. In England, though we certainly employ vacuum, or, as we call it, atmospheric steam heating, to a certain extent, and plenum or fan blast and unit systems for many of our larger buildings and factories, in well over 90% of our installations hot water is the favored medium. It is therefore somewhat difficult for us to understand why this system is so little used elsewhere. Its undoubted advantages over steam and hotair heating in respect of, (1) mildness, and consequent healthfulness, (2) elasticity of operation, (3) facility of installation, and (4) economy in fuel consumption are, or should be, now so well known as to establish it as the dozen of heating mediums.

In perusing the advertisements in American trade publications, one is surprised at the large number of devices, patents, articles, apparatus and what nots that are offered to “get rid of that trouble in your heating system.”

One wonders when some enterprising engineer will come along and get rid of the whole contraption. The necessity of these elaborate and complicated mechanisms seems to indicate of themselves that the fundamental principle of the parent system must be somewhat shaky.

Why have them, anyway! What’s the matter with hot water?

PROS AND CONS OF WATER HEATING.

We read that the initial cost is higher, that the radiators and pipe lines are so much larger, that it takes much longer to get up heat, that there is a grave risk of freezing, and that the static pressure is too great in lofty buildings. The latter objection is certainly true,—in buildings of more than ten or twelve stories,—but the standard construction of cast-iron sectional boilers and radiators is perfectly sound for heads up to 120 ft., which is more than appertains in the majority of buildings. The rest of the objections will not bear close analysis. With a properly-designed water heating plant, the radiators are very little larger than steam, the sizes of the distributing pipes are usually as small, and in many cases even smaller. The heat can so easily be maintained continuously throughout the entire heating season, and the temperature of the circulating medium automatically and certainly adjusted at the boiler to suit the varying weather, that the risk of frost is practically eliminated.

Digitized by Google
21

APPLICATION OF HOT WATER AS HEATING MEDIUM NOT PROPERLY UNDERSTOOD.

The term “properly designed” is used advisedly, for therein the root of the whole objection appears to be. The application of hot water as a heating medium does not seem to be properly understood. One is forced to this conclusion in reading most of the articles and authorities on hot water pipe sizing. Expressions such as—“It is evident that the mains must be equivalent to the combined valve areas,” and—“it is di-ficult to give any definite tabulated data on this point,” not to speak of, “the system should be installed so as to make the travel of the water to each radiator about the same” and the like, admit of no other construction. As to the latter reference, the idea of equalizing the travel to each individual radiator was registered many years ago in this country, but with advanced knowledge in applying the principles of hot water circulation it soon became obsolete. The area of the main pipe need not necessarily be equal to that of the combined radiator valves. In certain instances, as, for example, a one-pipe drop system, three or four i-in. radiator valves may be served by a single branch main of i in. diameter.

PIPE LINES MUST BE ACCURATELY CALCULATED.

Accurate calculation of the pipe-lines is the soul of a properly designed water heating plant, however large or small it may be.

The principles are known, the required flow and return temperatures at the boiler can be predetermined, the height and distance of each radiator from the boiler is easily obtained from the plans, and all that remains is to carefully tabulate these data with the resulting circulating pressure set up in each section of the installation, to arrive at completely accurate pipe sizes.

These calculations are by no means as involved and laborious as would be imagined at first sight. Once the governing factors are thoroughly grasped, the details can be quite rapidly figured by the average junior.

HOT WATER OFFERS FREEDOM IN DESIGN.

The freedom in design which is opened out will repay the slight trouble involved. One is conscious all the time that the job will work and, what is more, function exactly as intended by the designer. There will be no “drawing-off” from the airtaps on the radiators by the erectors in a futile effort to induce a permanent circulation—no setting up of back pressure in the nearer branches to retard the circulation through the more extreme radiators, and no air binding; just a smoothly working plant which requires an absolute minimum of attention.

If comparison is made of the cost of erector's time in making alterations and generally monkeying around to rectify even minor errors in design, it will be found that an extra shilling in the drawing office very often saves a pound on the job.

OPPORTUNITIES FOR ECONOMY IN DESIGN.

Hot water offers so many opportunities of economy in design, far more so than any other system. Differences of levels, doorways, beams, and the hundred and one little local obstructions lose their significance when hot water is the chosen medium for distributing the heat, and by this is meant with gravity circulation, not the so-called accelerated systems; most of which, in the writer's judgment, do not achieve anything not obtainable by gravity means, properly applied.

Digitized by v^ooQle
22

BOILER PIT EXCAVATIONS AND RETURN MAIN LIFTS.

An example frequently met with in practice is that of ajsingle-story factory or workshop in which it is desired to avoid excavating a pit for the boiler, but at the same time to locate the bulk of the radiating surface at floor level. With steam this is manifestly impracticable; with hot water, however, it would be quite simply dealt with, asjshown in sketch.

FIG. 1—HOW EXCAVATION FOR BOILER TIT MAY BE AVOIDED WITH RADIATING SURFACE AT FLOOR LEVEL.

It is important to observe that lifting return mains over the doors does not in any way impede the circulation, beyond the relatively insignificant additional friction of the extended travel. On the other hand, dipping the pipes below the door does actually retard the circulation.

It is perfectly sound practice to extend this lifting principleTalmost indefinitely, always providing the pipe sizes are accurately calculated, and means taken to remove the air from each high point, just as from a radiator. An ordinary or automatic air valve will effect this, or separate I-8-in. air pipes carried above the level of the feed and expansion tank can be very cheaply substituted.

Similarly, with the two-pipe layout.

This unique factor of water heating by gravity is very far-reaching in its practical application. There are few buildings in which advantage cannot be taken of it to avoid considerable builders* work, incidental to the installation. The total cost of the plant is accordingly appreciably reduced, since the provision of pipe trenches, etc., in an ordinarily-designed plant adds very materially to the price.

ELIMINATION OF “DEAD** MAIN PIPES.

The elimination of “dead” main pipes also makes for economy in first cost, as well as in that of maintenance. The sizes of the radiators can be reduced proportionately with the superficial area of piping exposed in the rooms, and, obviously, every foot of “dead” main means so much extra fuel to be burned in the boiler.

Digitized by
23

COST OF LARGE RADIATORS COUNTERBALANCED.

Apart from this latter consideration, the actual sizes of water radiators are not so immeasurably greatet than those of low-pressure steam. With the latter it is customary to figure on an average transmission of 150

B.	T. U. per square foot. A water heating plant in a building of two or three stories can be safely designed to work at a mean temperature of 200° F., and on occasion, even higher. There is no reason why the flow temperature should be maintained below 212° F., if the height of the expansion tank above the highest radiator is sufficient to create the neces^ sary static pressure to prevent ebullition. With 200° F. mean temperature in the radiators, the transmission will work out at about (200—60) x i.j*= 210 B. T. U. per square foot, for an internal temperature in the room of 6o° F. This represents an increase of roughly 20% in the relative sizes of the radiators for the two systems—20% on the cost of a 40 or even jo sq. ft. radiator is less than the price of a steam trap, which is, of course, eliminated with a water heating plant.

RELATIVE COST OF PIPE LINES.

As to the relative cost of the pipe lines. A small installation for a two-story residence, with boiler in basement, total travel, say, 200 ft., will require a 2-in. pipe up to about 100,000 B. T. U.

100,000

A steam plant of equivalent radiating capacity, say	--------

250

= 400 sq. ft. would call for a in.- steam and a 1 yi-in. return main*. So that the cost of hot water pipe lines in this particular case would be actually less than those of steam. Again, a steam plant requires various-additional boiler fittings and acccessories, which for a small installation, add considerably to the cost. The steam pipe sizes are based on a boiler pressure of about 8 oz. This it is not practicable to increase if it is desired to provide 8 or io-hour firing periods, which are almost essential for satisfactory residence heating. The same objection does not apply with a water boiler. During the night, when the occupants are asleep, the full heating power of the plant is not required. In consequence, the boiler can be banked for a longer period without causing a cessation of heat, as is so frequently the case with an ill-proportioned steam boiler. What happens is that the flow temperature of the water drops to perhaps 160° or 150° F.; but the circulation is maintained, and maintained equably throughout all the radiators. If the pressure in a steam boiler falls below that for which the pipe lines are calculated, the whole of the available steam is condensed in the nearer radiators, whilst the more extreme ones become cold.

COMPARISON OF OPERATING COSTS.

The last, and perhaps the most important point, is that of running costs. This includes repairs and general maintenance charges, and fuel.

A water plant properly installed becomes a permanency, its life depending only on the lasting capabilities of the materials employed in the manufacture of the various apparatus. The same can hardly be said of a steam installation. The numerous mechanical devices liable to get out of order, and so to cease functioning, from the effects of normal wear and tear have to be frequently repaired or renewed. The life of the plant

Digitized by
itself must necessarily be less since it is subjected to the continuous strains and stresses of expansion and contraction, under the variable steam pressure, and intermittent heating and cooling of the radiators.

The total relative fuel consumption of water and steam boilers show decidedly in favor of the former.. Not only is the actual fuel consumption of a water boiler proportionately less than the steam type, owing to the respective differences in temperature between the furnace gases and the surrounding medium, but a water boiler almost automatically adapts itself to varying weather conditions. With a steam heating plant it is “all or nothing," a constant pressure must be maintained irrespective of a change in the outside atmosphere, to insure the heating of the more distantly-situated radiators. The various devices for partial heating of steam radiators, in the writer's opinion, are too dependent upon the human factor to be entirely successful, unless the resident or office occupant is prepared to spend half his working hours with one eye on the thermome* ter, and one hand on the radiator valve.

This “all or nothing" factor is a serious one, and has an immeasurable effect upon the annual fuel bill. It is doubtful if, all in all, 10% will cover the difference in the relative fuel consumptions of these two systems; 15% is probably nearer the mark, if allowance is made for the greater proportion of “dead-mains" in a steam plant.

Every fundamental factor— comfort, lowest first cost, and economical operation is thus in favor of low-pressure hot water. Why is it not given its proper place in the country which is truly the home of “central" heating?— Heating Magazine.

ABOUT THE REORGANIZATION OF THE GYMNASTIKA CENTRALINSTITUTET.

BV PROFESSOR PATRIK HAGLUND, STOCKHOLM.

The question of the radical reorganization of the Gymnastiska Centralinstitutet has stood in the centre of all gymnastic questions in Sweden for a couple of decades. Two Royal Commissions, one of 1910 and the other of 1915, have tried to meet various wants and desires, and have proposed magnificent schemes requiring the expenditure of millions, without actually realizing anything. Their work has not brought the question of a new High School for physical education any nearer its solution. Meanwhile the present century-old Central Institute is getting more and more unsatisfactory. No fundamental principles for its long stagnant functional, development have been agreed upon; the building is yearly becoming more unfit for a modern educational institution, and the financial depression occasioned by the war reduces the prospect of its getting out of this miserable back-water. In fact, the venerable institution is thoroughly behind the times, and there are profound reasons which make the regaining of its former position very hard.

• When the Gymnastiska Centralinstitutet was founded by the en-

From The Journal of Scientific Physical Training, Birmingham, England.

Digitized by LjOOQie
*5

thusiast, P. H. Ling, in 1813, a cardinal fault was committed, which has had fatal consequences, both for the Institute and for all Sweden; the amalgamation of three different interests which are fundamentally too specialized to be combined to any advantage is referred to—they must strangle each other, and, in fact, have done so. There is

(1)	Pedagogic gymnastics (a school question),

(2)	Military gymnastics (a question of defence), and

(3)	Medical gymnastics (a question of medicine).

Any attempt to combine these three cultural aims, which even in Ling’s time were definitely separated in the social sphere, must needs lead to an unfortunate state of affairs. S. Drakenberg, a member of the staff, published in 1913 an excellent history of the first hundred years of the Institute, and every thinking reader of his book must observe how all attempts at development have been hindered by this unworkable combination. The training of medical gymnasts and polyclinical work (which the Institute is obviously not qualified to undertake) has always been the greatest obstacle to up-to-date reorganization, and as there are still groups of people keeping fanatically to a plan which was impossible from its inception, we are very likely to be kept waiting for some time yet for a sensible solution.

There are, however, various factors tending to hasten matters. In the first place, physicians and hospitals who employ medical gymnasts are dissatisfied. The present staff of medical gymnasts at the Institute must be replaced by a staff of doctors trained in the hospitals for all kinds of mechanical and physical therapeutics. A re-constituted army will no longer be satisfied with the status quo, and the schools avowedly need gymnastic teachers who will give their time entirely to the school. These reforming voices, heard louder and louder, both in Sweden and elsewhere (for instance, in Denmark and America), together with methods of teaching successfully revised according to modern biological views, will help to dissolve the old system, bankrupt as it is in every respect. We hope that a new “High School” will replace the present central Institute, and be adequate to the important task of undertaking the physical development of children and thereby the improved health of the Swedish nation.

The following fundamental principles must be observed if the reform is to be satisfactory.

I.	—To improve the physical education of the schools (and ultimately public health), we must not regard drilling and gymnastics as the centre of the task in question. These are but “means” and not “aims”, whereas hygiene in its widest sense, mental and physical, is the true aim. Physical education ought to be a necessary counter-balance to and equally valued with intellectual training.

II.	—Such a central institution for physical education must be devoted exclusively to its single purpose. It must not be burdened with secondary tasks, which are outlying to its main object. It must not be expected to provide the Army and Navy with specially-trained instructors, and it must be disburdened of the training of medical gymnasts and the clinical work now attached to the Institute. This latter work is quite alien to the task of the new High School and belongs to another sphere altogether.

Digitized by t^ooQle
26

III.—In order to guarantee the development of the work, the new institution ought to be in close contact with the medical High Schools, where the study of medical science, including hygiene, reaches its height. Influenced by scientific study, the work at the new High School is sure to follow the developments of biology and avoid the dangers of stagna-tion, which so easily beset it, if separated from strong scientific impulses.-* Vol. J4% No. 40.

Physiology and hygien p

t\ w v n>/vin if n	^	*

D. M. F. KROGH, hL D.

LACK OF KNOWLEDGE OF HEALTH LAWS BLAMED FOR POOR PHYSICAL

condition.—Children in Philadelphia’s “polite neighborhoods” suffer from mal-nutrition quite as much as those in the slum districts, experts declared yesterday at a meeting of the Philadelphia Child Welfare Association in the Mayor’s reception room, City Hall.

Mayor J. Hampton Moore opened the conference and commended the activities of the association as worthy of the support of public and private organizations.

“Lack of knowledge, not lack of food, nor money to buy food, accounts for the under-nourished emaciated, nervous children who drift to the children’s courts,” said Mrs. Frederick Schoff, chairman, reviewing conditions that affect children in Philadelphia.

“The well-to-do mother often neglects her children through ignorance of health laws; she does not know how to guard their health.”

There are more under-nourished children on the Lake Shore Drive, lined with the homes of Chicago millionaires, Mrs. Ida Couch Wood, director of the McCormick Memorial Fund of Chicago, told the welfare workers, than there are in the stockyard slums.

“We made a survey of 10,000 typical children,” said Mrs. Wood. “They came from all parts of the city, rich and poor. We found that 40 per cent of them had been retarded a year or more in growth. We also found, to our surprise, that only 16 per cent of them came from the foreign bom families around the stockyards, and 63 per cent of them came from the University of Chicago neighborhood and similar districts. Not a few of them came from the ‘gold coast,’ or Lake Shore Drive.

“In our efforts to have children cultured and well educated we sometimes neglect their bodies, They become nervous, irresponsible, a prey to evil influences. Life in the American family is too stimulating— children are pushed on at too rapid a pace.

“The peasants from Europe seem to be of a sounder race. Perhaps that accounts for the small percentage of undernourished children we found among even the poor families.

“The American child sometimes deceives the school nurse because American clothes put up a great front. A smart bow of pink ribbon or a pretty ruffle round the neck makes a little girl look very sweet, but a thorough physical examination would show her to be misshapen, emaciated and nervous.”

) Google
27

A careful physical examination of every child attending the public-schools was recommended by Mrs. Wood.—From Philadelphia Daily Paper.

the contribution or holidays to national vigor.—The revolutionary changes that the necessities of the war have injected into our national habits and conventional practices have already become the subject of much speculation with respect to their future states. One often hears the query: “Shall we ever return to our former ways?” Particularly true is this in relation to the educational system, notably among the higher institutions of learning, which have responded in a most extraordinary manner to the nation's call for young men trained intensively iA special ways to meet war-time emergencies. There has arisen a concentration of effort and a speeding up of schedules utterly unprecedented in* the history of such establishments.

We should not be understood to imply that the outcome of this new way of conducting the business of education necessarily represents a beneficent reform. Undertaken to meet an emergency, it has demonstrated the capacity of our institutions to undergo rapid changes and adjustments of plan and policy. Even before any critical evaluation of the results achieved and the possible advantages gained can be attempted,, we hear the prophet declaring that this country shall never again revive the slow and easy methods of the past. The catchword “efficiency” is made to work overtime as the keynote of the expected performances of the future. We are warned that the mistakes of the past must not be repeated; that concentration of attention and conservation of the precious days and years are to become standard aims in the reconstruction period*, alike in the world of education and in the domain of commerce.

More than one who has observed the actual working out of the new “militarized” procedures in practice have seriously asked themselves whether in the long run such war-time measures can secure peace-time-benefactions. The fact that every hour of the day is utilized does not guarantee that it is most advantageously employed. There is such a thing as intellectual indigestion resulting from inordinate concentration. The efficiency of a mechanical or automatic performance can doubtless be increased in large measure by persistently continued practice; on the other hand, there are more distinctly intellectual processes which become impaired unless a reasonable period for reflection and mental recuperation is allowed.

Let us hesitate, therefore, lest we adopt a machine-like scheme too^ rashly as the basis for the further development of American higher education. The physician has a special concern in the threatened abolition of' the institution of holidays. To him who watches the mode of life of his fellow citizens, the beneficence of an occasional holiday has not escaped notice. It need not be debated whether there has been inordinate waste of time in the past; whether the life of many of our citizens, young and old, has not been extravagant in authorized idleness. The institution of suitable holiday periods is for the most part more than likely to make for good. “The right use of a holiday is one of the sovereign secrets in the practice of the noble art of keeping alive.” Let us bear in mind*

Digitized by v^ooQle
28

in the discussion of the projects of reconstruction, frankly admitting that lesiure is valuable in the long run only if it improves the quality of work. A change of work may become a holiday in essence. The best holiday is not one spent in languid idleness but one that contains the largest amount of new experience. The physician needs such holidays; and in selecting their routine he will do well to observe such holiday experts as the naturalist, the traveler and the historian, rather than the golfer. A holiday, said a capable observer, is not an end in itself, but a means to a general improvement of the working life. The test of whether a holiday has or has not been well used, he added, is the supplement of zest and vigor that it contributes to our proper labors.—Editorial Journal Am. Med. Assoc.

♦——- ——........ .—... - ■   .... ............

N OTES AND COMMENT^

TENTATIVE PROGRAM FOR THE ANNUAL DISTRICT CONVENTION TO BE HELD IN NEWARK, APRIL

20, 21, 22, 1922.

Thursday, April 20.

Morning and afternoon will be set aside for the visitation of schools and class rooms.

Health Inspection Hygiene Instruction Binet classes Deaf and Dumb Blind Classes

3 clinics for corrective exercises Swimming Pool

Auditorium exercises Fire Drills Safety Patrol Court Exercises Playground Health Clubs Medical Department

2.	Thursday Evening—

Reception, including speaking and social dancing at the Barringer

High School. (Special feature made of the social hour.)

3.	Friday, April 21, A. M.—

Four prominent speakers to give papers and papers to be discussed.

4.	Friday, April 21, P. M.—

Health rhymes, health playlets, health songs, health moving pictures, and a health performance by Marionettes.

5.	Friday, April 21, Evening—

Exhibition of Newark Physical Training at the First Regiment Armory.

Kindergarten physical training.

1st and 2nd year nursery rhymes set to rhythmic exercises.

Folk Dancing—costumed.

Light Apparatus—dumbbells, wands, Indian clubs, reeds and long wands, performed by various schools.

Free Hand Exercises; Heavy Apparatus and Games, using the Newark organization.

Digitized by CjOOQie
29

Aesthetic Dancing (Junior High and Senior High.)

Tumbling, Table Exercises and Pyramids.

Athletics.

High School exhibitions.

Newark Normal School for Physical Education.

A Newark Surprise.

6. Saturday, April 22, A. M.—

General meeting for practical floor work lead by selected teachers. Luncheons will be arranged for each day.

The Mid West Society of Physical Education will hold its 9th annual meeting in Des Moines, Iowa, March 30th, 31st and April 1st.

The Hotel Fort Des Moines will be headquarters.

The Health Education Department at Ames is to have charge of the nutrition work and the State University of Iowa will have charge of the orthopedic work and will have a very interesting exhibit upon the child welfare station. Dr. Baldwin plans to have an exhbit of instruments he uses for weighing and measuring and there will be some one there to demonstrate during the three days the convention is in session.

The State Teachers College at Cedar Falls will have charge of the program on constructive recreation. The section meetings will be in charge of the following people:

Public Schools, Mr. Floyd Rowe, of Michigan.

Private Schools, Mr. Joseph Wright, of Chicago, 111.

Men’s Colleges, Dr. P. K. Homes of Lexington, Ky.

Women’s Colleges, Dr. J. Anna Norris, Minneapolis, Minn.

Y. M. C. A., Mr. H. W. Crawmer, Des Moines, Iowa.

Y. W. C. A., Miss Caroline Shaw, Dayton, Ohio.

Play Ground Recreation, Mr. H. G. Reynolds, Chicago.

Industrial Secretaries, Mr. Ed. S. Connor of Akron, Ohio.

The Des Moines Society of Physical Education is already making plans for the entertainment of their guests and the committee in charge feels that this is a meeting that no physical director should miss.

Very sincerely yours,

Margaret A. McKee.

BOOK REVIEWS.

“the foundations of psychology” by Jared Sparks Moore Ph. D. 239 pages, 6 by 9 inches. Published by Princeton University Press,. Princeton, N. J. Price $3.00.

Dr. Moore is associate professor of philosophy in the Western Reserve University. The object of the book is to give to students and teachers a closer acquaintance with Psychology. It serves a twofold purpose: 1) as a textbook in advanced work and 2) for general reading on the nature and methods of psychology. Numerous charts and diagrams aid the reader to a better understanding of the text. The work is divided into three parts, part one dealing with the varying definitions or conceptions of psychology, part two presents the whole field of scientific psychology, while in the last part the postulates are presented that are necessary for the construction of a scientific psychology.

Digitized by Google
30

The American Physical Education Association will hold its annual ^meeting in Detroit on May 3rd, 4th, jth and 6th.

The general programs will be held for the purpose of discussions by leading General Educators and Physical Educators, concerning the aims and objectives of present day Physical Education.

The sectional programs are in the hands of the sectional chairmen.

President Burton of the University of Michigan, will speak at the banquet on the subject of “Being Alive.** The program after the banquet will be in the hands of the Detroit Department of Recreation.

One evening will be devoted to a Demonstration of the type used in Detroit to inform the public of what is being done in the schools for the health and recreation of the children.

Guests attending the convention, will be taken to different types of .modern school buildings; a Platoon Elementary School, where the children have two thirty minute periods a day for out-of-door play and gymnasium work; and an Intermediate School, having a sixty minute daily period for gymnasium work, swimming, corrective work, health instruction and out-of-door play.

Headquarters will be at the Hotel Statler where all meetings will be held. Reservations should be made in advance. There will be a registration fee of $1.00 and admission to all meetings, exhibits and demonstrations, will be by badge only.

Ethel Perrin,

Chairman Program Committee

American Physical Education Association.

The Educational Screen is the title of a new monthly that, judging by its first number and by its declaration of principles, will be of very great use to all teachers. Presenting things to pupils by means of pictures is a method that is certain	to be employed in a	greater degree in the

future than in the past.	Visual education is just in	its	infancy.	The new

publication intends to be an impartial, independent, reliable, complete .and authoritative medium that shall present to its readers the truth about visual education.	It	claims the support of	all	persons	interested

rin education because of	its	aims and also because	of	the fact	that it is

not connected in any manner with any commercial phase of industries that manufacture or sell materials used in visual education. The magazine is published by “The Educational Screen” 5200 Harper Ave., Chicago and its subscription price is $1.00 a year.

WANTED—The following copies of MIND AND BODY: 1905 -	Vol.	12	-	No.	141	November.

1908	-	Vol.	1 j	-	No.	167	March.

1909	-	Vol.	16	-	No.	179	- 80 May and	June.

1910	-	Vol.	17	-	No.	192	to 197 October	to	March.

1919 -	Vol.	26	-	No.	275	January.

1921 -	Vol.	27	-	No.	294	January.

-Notify Publishers.

Digitized by LjOOQie
3i

Gymnasium and playgroun

FRED FOERTSCH, Pittaburg, Pa.

AN OUTDOOR SPORTS ASSOCIATION FOR ST. PAUL, MINN.

An advanced step for the promotion of outdoor sports for summer and winter in the City of St. Paul was made when a group of interested business men and business women was assembled by the Supt. of Recreation to form the above named association.

A call through the press asked for delegates to be appointed by civic, commercial and fraternal organizations to a meeting held December ioth for the purpose of perfecting the organization and devising ways and means to raise money to finance five toboggan slides and stagfc a local carnival.

This being accomplished, a committee of fifteen people was appointed to carry On the project. Officers were elected with Ernest N. Johnson, Supt. of Playgrounds as President, and three sub-committees were named, namely, Finance, Ways and Means, and Publicity.

A carnival button was adopted and put on sale. This button sale amounted to $3500.00.

Organizations such as commercial, civic, fraternal, churches, mothers clubs and the athletic clybs, were induced to take out $10,00 memberships which entitled them to a delegate vote in the association.

Toboggan slides were built in five distinct districts in the City. Each district had an official opening which was accompanied by skating races, dog races, skiing and parades. The official opening at each slide attracted many thousands of people.

The Dispatch and Pioneer Press, our largest local paper, featured a beauty contest to stimulate the button sale and general interest in the carnival. Out of 800 candidates in the beauty contest, five queens were selected, one from each district. On the last night a queen of queens was selected at the Capitol Theater before the largest crowd that ever assembled at the largest theater in our City.

The carnival dates were Jan. 28th to Feb. 4th. During the time from Jan. 5th to Feb. 5th the sum of $5,500.00 was raised and five very popular toboggan slides were erected.

The Outdoor Sports Association is a permanent body, ready to operate the year around in providing outdoor summer, water carnivals as well as the winter sports. The Association is an adjunct to the Recreation Department of the City whose object is to induce the people to use the City’s beautiful parks and recreation facilities.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
32

REEDS AND CLUB SWINGING DRILL FOR TWELVE ACTIVES AND TWELVE LADIES.

Arranged by A. O Diete.

NOTE: These two exercises were two of the model numbers shown at the National Festival of the American Gymnastic Union, Chicago, June, 1921.

Performed by 12 ladies (Reeds) and 12 actives (Clubs) of the Chicago

Turngemeinde.

Music Valse Bleue, by A. Margis.

Exercise /.

Double arm circle outward and double hand circle outward over

head ............................................................. 1-2

Double arm circle outward and double hand circle in rear of

shoulders ........................................................ 3-4

Double arm circle outward and double forearm circle outward..	5-6

Half double arm circle outward and lunge left forward, arms oblique side upward (7) cross clubs over head (8) ................... 7-8

Close left to right and repeat all right, left, right........ 9-32

File No. 1 begins left, No. 2 right.

	EIG.l	
		
	-T- -T~	
	-r— ~r~	
	-r- 1	
	-j— -T—	■T*
	-7- -T-	
J.x. ♦.	1. x.	X.

Exercise 2.

Double arm circle left sideward and double hand circle left side

ward over head ..................................................... 1-2

Double arm circle left sideward and double hand circle left sideward

in rear of shoulders................................................ 3-4

Half double arm circle left sideward and double forearm circle

left sideward ....................................................   5-6

Half double arm circle left sideward and lunge left sideward, left arm oblique side upward right opposite (7).

NOTE: Left arm describes 5-8 arm circle and right 1 1-8 arm circle to the oblique position.

Close left to right and return clubs to starting position (8) ....	7-8

Repeat all right, left, right ................................  9~32

File No. 1 begins left, No. 2 right.

Exercise 3.

Swing arms fore-downward and backward and return to arms ob-

ique fore-upward ................................................... 1-2

Tip clubs on fore-arms and bend (dip) knees half deep and

Digitized by Google
33

double hand circle forward outside of arms......................... 3*4

Repeat i to 3 and on 4 move arms left sideward......... ......

Two closing steps left sideward and two double arm circle and

- .double hand circles left sideward in rear of shoulders..........  9-12

Three quarter double arm circle left sideward and tip clubs on

fore-arms and bend trunk left sideward............................13-14

Straighten trunk and three quarter double arm circle right steward to pos tion..................................................15-16

Repeat all to same side ......................................17-31

No. 1 begins right, No. 2 left.

			ejuX,»
-T-	(p	*v	-r-
—1—		Jp	-r-
-T-	<H	A)	-r-
-T-	(F	$	-r-
-r-	Or	D	-
-r-	Or	$	
Slu l-	I-	Jt.	

Exercise 4.

Same as 3.	1-8,	but	add:	Trunk	bending	forward on 1, straighten on 2, and move arms sideward on 8 (clubs on fore-arms)............. 1-8

Three steps forward and close with re-tipping clubs and two double arm circles and double hand circles outward in rear of

shoulders ........................................................... 9-12

Three quarter double arm circle outward and tip clubs on forearms and bend trunk	forward ......................................13-14

Re-tip clubs and double arm circle inward to starting position.. 15-16 Repeat all, but moving backward on 9-12, and bend trunk

backward on 13-14 ...................................................17-32

File No. 1 begins right, No. 2 left.

Exercise 5.

Double arm and double hand circle inward in rear of shoulders..	1-2

Three quarter double arm circle inward and tip clubs on forearms and bend trunk backward......................................—	3-4

Straighten trunk, re-tip clubs and double arm circle and double

hand circle outward in rear of shoulders.............................  5-6

Double arm circle outward to starting position.................... 7-8

Lunge left sideward and three quarter double arm circle left

sideward and tip clubs on fore-arms...................................9-10

Quarter turn left and half double arm circle right sideward and

tip clubs on fore-arms.............................................	.11-12

Several follow double hand circles forward outside of arms-----13-14

Three quarter double arm circle left sideward to starting position ...........................................................   15-16

Repeat all to same side and run to circle formation (Fig. 3) on

*J-i 6  ......................................................       17-3*

Digitized by

Google
34 FIG. f/Z

\* y

k >

/ L \

File No. i begins left, No. 2 right.

Exercise^ 6.

Lunge left sideward and hand circle left outward in rear of shoulder and arm circle right outward, change knee bending and arm circle left outward and hand circle right outward in rear of

shoulder .............................................................. 1-2

Repeat 1-2 ....................................................... 3~4

Close left to right and hand circle left outward over head and arm circle right outward, hand circle right outward over head and

arm circle left outward................................................ 5“^

Repeat 5-6 ...................................................... 7*“8

Repeat all right, left, right (finish facing outward from circle) .. 9-32

Exercise 7.

Double arm circle left oblique forward on left side of body.........	1

Double hand circle forward outside of bent arms..................... 2

Half double arm circle backward and bend trunk	forward.	3

Straighten trunk and half double arm circle	forward................. 4

Lunge left forward and half double arm circle backward..............	5

Half double arm circle forward and tip clubs on fore-arms ....	6

Double hand circle forward outside of arms	with	dipping knees 7

Close left to right and cross clubs over head....................... 8

Repeat all right, left, right.................................... 9-32

Exercise 8

Double arm circle and double hand circle inward in rear of

shoulders ............................................................. 1-2

Three quarter double arm circle inward, lunge left sideward and

tip clubs on fore-arms........................‘........................ 3-4

Half arm circle left outward to right sideward position and retip right club .......................................................... 5	*

Double horizontal hand circle left sideward moving arms to left

sideward position ......................................................  6

Three quarter double arm circle left sideward to starting position .......................................................            7-8

Repeat all right, left, right ............ ......................... 9—32

Last time 011^5-8 run to position .Fig. .4.

Digitized by Google
35

ItUjU.

FIG. 4

■ ^

•

^ -

i.

!U,uU

Exercise 9.

No. 1—One and three quarter double arm circle left sideward., i-x

One and one-half double arm circle right sideward.............. 3“4

Quarter turn left and step left forward and tip clubs on forearms .............................................................

Two double hand circles forward outside of arms with dipping

knees .............................................................. 6-7

Close left to right with quarter turn right and half double arm

circle left sideward to position right sideward...................... 8’

Repeat all right, left, right (Last time to starting position on 8) 9-32 No. 3—Same as No. 1, but opposite.

No. 2—(Center) Two double hand circles forward outside of

arms ............................................................... 1-2

Half double arm circle	backward.................................. 3

Half double arm circle	forward.................................. 4

Step left forward and tip clubs on fore-arms..................... 5

Two double hand circles forward outside of arms................ 6-7

Close left to right and cross clubs over head.................... 8

Repeat right, left, right (Last time to starting position on 8) .. 9-32

Exercise\io.

No. 1—Double arm circle left oblique forward on left side of

body ...............................................................   f

Repeat right and left........................................ 2-3

Double hand circle forward outside of arms....................... 4

Follow double arm and hand circle left forward................. 5-6

Repeat follow double arm and hand circle left forward.......... 7-8

Repeat all right, left, right (Last time to starting position)-9-32

Pose.

No. 3*—Same as No. 1, but opposite.

No. 2—Double arm and double hand circle outward in rear of

shoulders ..........................................................     I-*

Three quarter double arm circle outward ..........................   3,

Double horizontal hand circle outward moving arms sideward ..	4

Hand circle left outward in rear of shoulder, arm circle right outward, hand circle right outward in rear of shoulder and arm •ircle left outward ........... ........... .. .................   5-6

Digitized by CjOOQle
3*

Repeat 5-6 ...................................................... 7-I

Repeat ail right, left, right (Last time to starting position)-9-32

Pose.

REED EXERCISES (LADIES)

jExercise /.

Two follow leaps left forward with circling reed forward.......	1--2

Place left foot forward arms oblique fore-upward ................ 3-4

Layout left backward, arms sideward.............................. 5-6

Arms oblique fore-upward .......................................... 7

Position .......................................................... 8

Repeat right, left, right ..................................... 9-32

File No. 1 begins left, No. 2 right. (Fig I.)

Exercise 2.

Two follow leaps left forward with circling reed forward......... 1-2

Place left foot backward and place reed on floor in front ....... 3-4

Layout left sideward, arms sideward ............................. 5-6

Place reed on floor in front ...................................... 7

Position ........................................................   8

Repeat right, left, right ...................................... 9-32

File No. 1 begins left. No. 2 right.

Exercise 3.

Step left sideward, arms sideward ................................. 1

Point right foot forward, arms left lateral.......................  2

Repeat to right side ............................................ 3-4

Step left sideward, arms sideward ................................. 5

Cross right foot in rear of left, reed to loop over head .......... 6

Step right sideward, arms sideward ................................ 7

Position .......................................................... 8

Quarter turn left (inward) and four waltz steps forward with

circling reed forward (passing in front of clubs) ................... 9-12

Four swing hops in place with circling reed forward.............13-16

Repeat all left (closing on 32) ................................17-32

File No. 1 begins left, No. 2 right. (Fig. II.)

Exercise 4.

No. 1 and 2 form gate and take three steps sideward (crossing

in rear) towards No. 3 and 4 and point................................ 1-4

And return in three steps and point ............................. 5-8

No. 3 and 4 pass through gate in two waltz steps (hands on

hips) and waltz turn inward........................................... 1-4

And return by encircling outward with same steps ................ 5-8

Repeat with No. 3 and 4 forming gate and No. 1 and 2 encircling ...........................................................   9-16

Repeat all (finish facing front) ...........................    17-32

Exercise 3.

Step left forward and kneel right, arms sideward and forward,

hands together ..................................................      1^1

Rise to stand, place left foot backward, arms oblique fore-up.

wrard, reed to loop.................................................   3-4

Circle reed forward and jump over reed with crossing left over right on 5, right over left on 6, repeat (j-6) (7-8).................   5-5

Digitized by v^ooQle
37

Face outward and four waltz steps forward, with circling reed

forward ........................................................... 9-12.

Four swing hops forward with circling reed (encircling clubs)

forward to place ..................................................13-16*

Repeat all left, but the four swing hops to circle formation

(Fig. 3) ......*........................-..........................17

File No. 1 begins left. No. a right. (Fig. III.)

Exercise 6.

Place left foot sideward, right hand in front of left shoulder,

reed vertical ..........................•............................ 1-2

Quarter turn left and two follow leaps left forward with circling

reed forward ........................................................ 3-4

Layout left backward, right arm forward, left in front of right

shoulder, reed vertical............................................. 5-6-

Quarter turn left and two follow leaps forward, circling reed

forward ............................................................  7-8

Repeat all three times beginning left (last time face to center

of circle) ........................................................ 9-32

Exercise 7.

Towards center of circle. Pas de Basque left and right in place,

arms lateral......................................................... 1-2

Three running steps forward and point right foot forward, right

hand over the pointing foot, left arm sideward...................... 3-4^

Repeat all	right ............................... 5-8

Quarter turn right, lunge left sideward, left arm oblique side

upward, right opposite ............................................9-1 o>

Quarter turn right, change knee bending and place reed on floor

in front ...........................................................11-12

Kneel left and reed to a loop over head.........................13-14

Rise to stand, raise left leg backward, arms sideward............ 15'

Position ........................................................ 16-

Repeat all, but finish with another quarter turn right on 32 ... .17-32 Exercise 8.

Four waltz	steps forward with circling reed forward.............. 1-4

Four swing hops forward with circling reed forward and on 8

half turn right	.................................. 5-8

Repeat all three times ........................................ 9-32

Last four swing hops to new formation (Fig. 4).

Exercise 9.

No. 1—Swing hop left and right in place, circling reed forward..	1-2

Quarter turn left, lunge left forward, arms oblique fore-upward 3-4

Swing reed backward on floor ...................................... 5

Swing reed forward on floor........................................ 6

Swing reed backward on	floor..................................... 7

Quarter turn right, close left to right to position ............... 8

Repeat right, left, right....................................... 9-32

No. 3—Same as 1, but opposite.

No. 2—(Center) Lunge left forward, arms sideward................. 1-2

Layout left backward, arms forward, reed to a loop............... 3-4

Return ........................................................  5“8V

Repeat right, left, right ..................................... 9~32

Digitized by CjOOQle
3»

Exercise io.

In sets of fours, inner hands joined, arms sideward.

Glide - close, glide arabesque left forward (around circle) . 1-2

Same right ................................................. 3-4

Glide close glide swing hop left forward (around circle).... j-6

Same right ................................................. 7-8

Face towards center and arabesque left forward, arms upward..	9

Swing hop right backward, arms sideward....................... 10

Six running steps	forward around	circle,	arms sideward.....11-12

Repeat 9-12 ...............................................13-16

Repeat all ................................................17-32

Set No. 1 and 3 begins left, No. 2 right.

Pose	____________

MODEL EXERCISES.

ARRANGED BY HENRY ETLING, SOUTH SIDE TURN VEREIN, PITTSBURGH, PA.

For Ladies and Actives of the South Side Turnverein Pittsburgh, Pa. '-Consisting of Club-swinging, Wands and Dumb-Bells.

Arranged for seven Ladies and eight Actives.

POSITION OF CLASS.

w	c	w

D	D

C

C

C

C

C

D

D

W	C	W

PRELIMINARY EXERCISES TO GROUP I.

"WANDS—(NO. i)

a)	Stride left sideward and raise arms fore-upward.......... 1-2

b)	Bend left knee and lower wand obliquely in rear, left hand

<©ver left shoulder, right hand down.............................. 3-4

c)	Raise arms upward and straighten left, reverse to right side.	5-6

d)	Extend arms upward and raise left leg sideward............. 7

e)	Lower left leg and arms forward to position................ 8

f)	Repeat all right - left - right......................... 9-32

DUMB BELLS—(NO. i)

a)	Bend knees and raise arms sideward....................... 1-2

b)	Straighten knees, rise on toes, swing arms side-upward and

v clash bells overhead............................................ 3-4

c)	Raise left leg forward and lower arms forward............ 5-6

d)	Move left leg and arms sideward and lower to position..	7-8

e)	Repeat all right - left - right......................... 9-32

‘CLUB SWINGING—(NO. i)

a) Double arm circle left and douhle hand circle left in rear of -shoulders ...................................................... 1-2

Digitized by Ljoosle
39

3-4

Repeat ....................................................

b) Double arm circle left (j), left arm extended sideward right

arm bended overhead and touch step left sideward................ j-6

c) Double arm circle left and closing step to position...... 7-8

d) Repeat all right - left - right......................... 9-32

(No. 3) Begins right.

(No. 2) Double arm circle outward and double hand circle outward in rear of shoulders and repeat............................. 1-4

b)	Double arm circle and extend arms obliquely side-upward,

with touch step backward ....................................... 5-6

c)	Double arm circle inward with closing step left to position 7- 8

Repeat with touch step right backward...................... 9-16

W d) Repeat inward with crossing clubs overhead, and touch step

left and right backward .......................................17-32

1st GROUP—WANDS.

Exercise /—(No. 1)

Stride right forward and raise arms forward... ............. 1-2

#-Turn left,	cross	right arm over left....................  3-4

#-Turn left,	cross	left arm over right..................... 5-6

Stride right forward, extend arms upward ................... 7-8

#-Turn left,	cross	right arm over left.................... 9-10

J^-Turn left,	cross	left arm over right.....................n-12

Stride left forward, straighten arms forward ..............13-14

Raise left leg and arms upward .............................. 15

Lower leg and arms to position .............................. 16

Repeat left - right - left ................................17-64

£ (No. 2) Beginning left.

GROUPING.

(No. 1) Swing right arm backward left hand in front of right

shoulder ......................................................... 1

Raise right arm forward, shoulder high........................ *

Cross right arm over left .................................... 3

Lower wand to position ....................................... 4

Lunge forward right obliquely right arm up obliquely, left hand

in on chest....................................................... 5

Hold this position ........................................ 6-16

Straighten right knee, lower wand to position................ 17

>£-Turn, left wand in position as left up obliquely right on

chest ..........................................................  18

Hold this position ........................................19-28

Change places with those of Dumb-Bells, after mass grouping.

(No. 2) In front same beginning left.

(No. 1) In rear same but on lunging 1-8 turn right to rear outward.

(No. 2) In rear same but 1-8 turn left to rear.

1st GROUP—DUMB-BELLS.

Exercise /—(No. I)

Bend knee step obliquely left forward, arm to a strike... 1-2

Bend left knee straighten arms sideward ................. 3-4

Raise left leg forward move arms forward then upward..... 5-6

Touch step left backward, bend trunk forward, bell on floor---	7-8

Straighten trunk, raise left leg forward arms upward and lower

Digitized by
40

forward shoulder high............................................ 9-10

Lunge left forward, move arms sideward.......................11-12

Straighten left knee arm to strike.......................... 13-14

Raise left leg, straighten arms upward and lower sideward...15-16

Repeat all right - left - right..............................17-64

(No. 2) Same right, in front.

(No. 1) in rear, same beginning with 3-8 turn left.

(No. 2) in rear, same beginning with 3-8 turn right.

GROUPING.

(No. 1) in front.

Raise arms forward .................................................. 1

Move arms sideward................................................... 2

On shoulders......................................................... 3

Position ............................................................ 4

With 3-8 turn left lunge forward left, left arm bended in front

of fore-head, right arm obliquely backward, in line with right leg---	5

Hold this position.................................................6-16

yi turn right, arms to sides	in position............................ 17

Bend trunk forward, bells on floor, right leg raised, hold position ................................................................18-24

Change leg position 4 times ......................................25-28

Straighten to position and change places with wand after mass grouping.

(No. 2) in front, same beginning right.

(No. 1) in rear, same beginning left obliquely forward.

(No. 2) in rear same beginning right obliquely forward.

1st GROUP—CLUB-SWINGING.

Exercise /—(No. I)

Double arm circle left and double hand circle rear of shoulders..	1-2

Repeat	...................................................   3-4

yi Double arm circle left, lunge left sideward and tip clubs,

face front........................................................... 5-6

yi double arm circle right, bend right knee and tip clubs.	7-8

yi arm circle inward, both arms and clubs are extended sideward

and left leg	raised	sideward........................................... 9

Closing	step	left,	raise	arms upward ........................... 10

Double arm circle outward and double hand circle in front of

arms ...............................................................11-12

Alternate double arm circle outward and hand circle in rear of

shoulders, finish with clubs on shoulders ..........................13-16

Repeat all right - left - right.................................17-64

No. 3) Same, beginning right.

GROUPING.

Step swing hop left-right-left-right ............................ 1-4

Lunge left sideward left arm bended overhead, right arm extended sideward, preceeded by an arm circle left, K arm circle inward right ..................................................   5-6

Hold this position ............................................. 7-16

Straighten left knee, straighten	arms upward...................... 17

Back stride left, bend trunk forward arms extended forward,

Digitized by LiOOQie
41

It

*9-3*

dubs on floor ...................

Hold this position ..........

(No. 3) Same, beginning right.

Exercise i-(No. 2)

Double arm cirde outward and rear of shoulders.................. 1-2

Repeat ......................................................... 3-4

yi Double arm circle outward, tip dubs and bend upper trunk

backward ........................................................... 5-6

yi Double arm circle inward, tip dubs and lower trunk forward

to extreme ...........................................*............. 7-8

Straighten trunk, 7-8 Double arm circle outward, hold dubs to

side-obliquely upward with touch step left	sideward.................9-10

Closing step left, double arm cirde outward and rear of should-

ers ............................................................u-12

Alternate arm circle outward and rear of shoulders........13-16

Repeat 3 times more with side toe touch right - left - right ... 17-64 Finish with dubs on shoulders.

GROUPING.

Arabesque forward left. Pas de Sephyr backward, repeat all....	1-4

Closing step left, double arm cirde outward and rear of shoulders 5-6 (Quickly cross clubs overhead on 6th count.)

Hold this position .......................................... 7-16

9-8 double arm circle outward, arms are now obliquely side upward and lunge left forward ......................................17-18

Hold this position ..........................................19-32

Position and skip to solid Grouping.

PRELIMINARY EXERCISES TO GROUP 2.

WANDS-(NO. i)

a)	Raise arms fore-upward .................................. 1-2

b)	Stride left sideward and bend right knee, place left hand on

left hip right arm bended overhead, wand vertical at left side..	3-4

c)	yi turn right, with yi double arm circle left, right arm forward left hand on head, kneel left................................ 5-4

d)	Rise, straighten arms upward and left leg sideward......... 7

e)	Lower to position.......................................... 8

f)	Repeat right - left - right..............................9-32

(No. 2) Beginning right.

DUMB BELLS—(NO. i)

a)	Raise arms forward......................................... 1

Move arms sideward ........................................  2

b)	Lunge left sideward, bend left arm sideward overhead, lower

right arm downward obliquely....................................  3-4

c)	Straighten left knee, bend right knee and trunk left sideward right arm bended overhead left hand on hip .................. 5-4

d)	Straighten right knee, raise left leg and arms sideward, and

lower to position ............................................... 7-8

e)	Repeat right - left - right.............................9-32

(No. 2) Beginningfright.

CLUB SWINOINO-(NO. l)

a)	Double arm circle left and double hand cirde left in rear

Digitized by Google
4a

of shoulders......................... .........................    1-2

b)	Double arm circle left and double hand circle left in front

of arms upward .................................................. 3-4

c)	Touch step left sideward and extend arms side up obliquely. 5

d)	Tilt clubs sideward and cross toe left backward............ 6

e)	' Movement (c) ............................................. 7

f)	Position ..................................................  8

Repeat right - left - right..............................9-32

(No. 3) Beginning right.

(No. 2) Double arm circle outward and double hand circle outward in rear of shoulders........................................ 1-2

b)	Double arm circle outward and double hand circle in front of

arms upward ..................................................... 3-4

c)	Bend knees and $4 double arm circle outward and tilt clubs. 5-6

d)	Straighten knees, $4 double arm circle inward and cross

clubs overhead ................................................... 7-8

e)	Repeat all 3 times more ................................ 9-32

All immediately begin MAIN EXERCISES.

2nd GROUP—WANDS.

Exercise /—(No. /)

Touch step left sideward and raise arms fore-upward......... 1-2

Cross stride left backward, left arm back, right hand in front of

left shoulder, knees slightly bent.............................. 3-4

Lunge left sideward, left arm upward on left side, right hand

stays .......................................................... 5-6

Bend right knee, swing arms downward and upward on right side, wand obliquely on back right arm bent left obliquely downward ...................................................... 7“8

Bend left knee and trunk forward, wand over left foot...... 9-10

Straighten left knee, and trunk raise arms fore-upward.....11-12

Bend right knee and trunk forward, wand over right foot....13-14

Straighten left knee and trunk, raise arms upward and left leg

side to position...............................................15-16

Repeat right - left - right................................17-64

GROUPING.

Raise arms right sideward .................................... 1

Upward ....................................................... 2

Lower left sideward, and position ........................   3-4

Lunge obliquely right forward, wand on chest.................. 5

Straighten arms upward .....................................   6

Hold .....................................................   7-S

Bend trunk and right knee forward, (slowly) ............... 9-12

Straighten trunk and right knee, (slowly) .................13-16

turn left kneel right, wand on chest (17), and straighten arms

obliquely fore-upward ......................................   17-18

(To brace handstand) and, hold ...........................19~32

(No. 2) Same beginning left.

2nd GROUP—DUMB-BELLS.

Exercise /—(No. /)

Stride left forward and raise arms fore-upward.............. 1-2

Digitized by Google
43

yi turn right, bend right overhead left, arm sideward.......... j:

Change position of arms...................................  •	4

yi turn left swing left arm down and backward, right hand in

front of left shoulder.............................................. f

Change position of arms......................................... 6

Stride left forward bells on shoulders.......................... 7

Straighten arms upwards ........................................ &

yi turn right, yi arm circle inward right and place right hand on

shoulder ......................................................... 9-1	a

yi turn right, yi arm circle left inward and place left hand on

left shoulder ....................................................11-ia

Stride left forward, straighten arms forward................. 13

Move arms sideward ............................................ 14

Raise left leg and arms side-upward............................ 15

Lower to position.............................................. 16

Repeat right - left - right..................................I7“^4

GROUPING.

Bells on shoulders ............................................  1

yi double arm circle outward.................................... 2

5-4 double arm circle inward to position.....................  3-4

Left about face................................................. 5

Bend knees, extend left leg sideward, bells on floor............ 6

Hold this position ........................................... 7~&

Change position of feet	4 times............................... 9-11

Bend both knees, arms forward ...............................13-14

Left about face to position ................................15-16'

Bend left knee and trunk forward right leg extended backward

bell on floor...................................................17-ifr

Swing up to a hand stand against wand and hold...............19-3*

Position and step hop to solid grouping.

2nd GROUP—CLUB-SWINGING.

Exercise /—(No. /)

Stride left sideward and yi double arm circle right............. r

Cross stride right in front of left and double hand circle left in

front of arms....................................................    2

Stride left sideward, yi double arm circle left................. 3

Closing step right and double hand circle left in rear of shoulders 4 5-4 arm circle left arm, 4-4 arm circle right arm to left, left arm is sideward, right arm bended overhead, with bend knee step left

sideward ........................................................ 5-6-

Same swing right and closing step left and bend knee step right, 7-8 Double arm circle left and closing step right with double hand

circle in front and back of shoulders.............................9-10

yi double arm circle left in rear and front of body .........11-12

Horizontal double hand circle alternately in front of chest..13-16

Repeat right .............................................  17-32*

Repeat all ................................................  33-6+

GROUPING.

Two Spanish draw steps left* sideward, left arm bent overhead,

Digitized by v^oogle
bright arm pointing................................................   1-2

Reverse to right side........................................... 3-4

Stride left sideward and cross right foot in rear and double arm oircle left, head turned, left, arms obliquely down to left side, left arm extended left obliquely downward, right arm bended in front of

chest, pointing in same direction..................................   5-6

Hold ........................................................   7-1*

Stride right sideward and cross left foot in rear with 1-#,

double arm circle right, clubs in same position reversed, hold....17-3*

Exercise i~(No. 2)

Stride left forward, double arm circle outward,................... 1

Closing step right, double hand circle in rear of shoulders and

extend arms upward .................................................... 2

Same right...................................................... 3-4

yi double arm circle outward and double hand circle in front of

arms below............................................................. 5

yi double arm circle outward and hold side upward obliquely

with bend knee step left forward....................................... 6

Repeat arm movement inward, crossing clubs overhead, with

closing step left and bend knee step	right.......................... 7-$

Double arm circle outward and double hand circle in front of

arms upward and back of shoulders, closing step right on (9),........9-10

>£ double arm circle outward and double hand circle in rear and

'front of body......................................................11-12

Double hand circle vertically in front of chest alternately, ..13-16

Repeat all inward crossing clubs overhead and stepping backward to place .....................................................

Repeat inward again stepping backward .........................33-4!

Repeat stepping forward to places swinging outward.............49-64

GROUPING.

Four waltz turns, arms right intermediate and change on every

K turn .......................................................... 1-4

Double arm circle inward place club ends on shoulders and bend

&nees............................................................ 5-6

Hold position................................................7-16

(1st Lady) Deep knee bending, (2nd) # knee bending, (3rd) }4 lenee bending.

Double arm circle outward, hold arms side obliquely upward

and hop to a side stride position, (hold).......................17-32

PRELIMINARY EXERCISES TO GROUP 3.

WANDS—(NO. i)

Batting left - right - left - right.

(No. 2) Batting right - left - right - left................. 1-32

(DUMB BELLS (NO. i)

Pitching Ball-left - right - left - right.

(No. a) Pitching Ball—right - left - right - left. ......... 1-32

CLUB SWINGING—(NO. i)

a)	Double arm circle left and double hand circle left in rear •of shoulders..................................................... 1-2

b) Hand circle left in rear of left shoulder and arm circle right

Digitized by CjOOQle
45

inward ..........V....................................'.............. y;

c)	Hand circle right in rear of right shoulder and arm circle left

outward .........................................................     4.

d)	Lunge left sideward extend left arm side-upward obliquely

’ and 5-8 arm circle right inward and return......................   5-6

e)	Straighten left and bend right knee, swing opposite, and

return to position...............................................   7-8*

0	Repeat all right - left - right ......................   .	9-32

(No. 3) Beginning right.

(No. 2) (a) Double arm circle outward and double hand circle H outward in rear of shoulders........ ..............................   1-2

b)	Cross clubs and lower in front of chest with double hand

circle forward and double hand circle outward....................   3-4*

c)	Courtesy - left - right - left and right arm bended overhead 5-8*

d)	Repeat all right - left - right...........................9-32*

3rd GROUP—WANDS.

POSITION OF CLASS.

Exercise /-(No. /)

a)	Lunge left sideward and bend trunk obliquely left forward,

left arm down obliquely right hand in front of chest............ 1 -T

b)	Straighten trunk and left knee, yi turn right, bend right £1

knee and trunk backward, right arm upward, left hand on chest...	3-4

c)	Straighten trunk and right knee, % turn right, 5-8 arm

eircle right outward and return................................. 5-6*

d)	yi turn left, bend left knee, lower right arm forward, left

hand under right shoulder........................................ 7-8

e)	Straighten left knee, swing both arms backward, and raise

right leg backward, (wand held in right hand)...................... 9

f) Raise both arms and right leg sideward.................... 10

g) Move both arms and right leg forward...................... 11

h)	Lay out right backward, raise right arm upward, left hand

in front of left shoulder (wand again grasped with left hand)..... 12

i)	Straighten right knee, y£ turn left, 5-8 arm circle left outward and return..................................................13-14

j)	Double arm circle right raise left leg sideward, lower arms

forward and closing position ..................................15-16*

Repeat all right - left - right. .........................17-64,

(No. 2) Same, beginning right.

3rd GROUP—DUMB-BELLS.

Exercise /—(No. /)

a)	Bend knees, bells on floor, vertical...................... r

Raise arms forward...........................................  2

Move arms sideward........................................... 3*

Bells on shoulders ........................................... 4

b)	Lunge left sideward 1 5-8 arm circle right inward, left arm

extended sideward obliquely upward, right arm sideward obliquely downward.......................................................  5-6*

c)	Straighten left knee, yi turn right, bend right knee, raise

right arm obliquely fore-upward, 1 5-8 arm circle left inward to oblique position backward ........................................ 7-8*

Digitized by

Google
4<

d)	Bend trunk forward, bells on floor, laying position..... 9-10

e)	Raise trunk and legs to a side stride position, (Bells still on

floor) ............................'.............................  11

0 Position (d) ............................................... 12

g)	Repeat position (e)....................................... 13

h)	Bend right knee forward................................... 14

i)	Straighten trunk and right knee )i turn left, raise arms

:side upward and left leg sideward..............................   1$

j)	Lower arms forward, and close step left to position....... if

Repeat all right - left - right ........................... 17-64

(No. 2) Repeat all beginning right - left - right - left.

3rd GROUP—CLUB-SWINGING.

JLxercise /—(No. /)

a) Double arm circle left and double hand circle left in front

and rear of shoulders............................................... 1-2

b)	yi double arm circle left and double hand circle left in front

and rear of thighs.................................................. 3-4

c)	double arm circle left and alternate double hand circle in

front and rear of shoulders and repeat 3 times more................. 5-8

d)	Ya double arm circle and double hand circle inside of arms

and tilt clubs and bend knees..................................... 9-10*

e)	Straighten knees reverse swing and tilt	left..............11-12

0 Straighten knees, >£ double arm circle left, turn trunk right,

right arm extended forward hand circle left above and below right

-arm ..............................................................13-14

g) Double hand snake circle outward and turn trunk forward. .15-16

Repeat right - left - right ...............................17-64

(No. 3) Beginning right.

GROUPING.

a)	Side stride left, extend arms sideward ....................... 1

b)	Cross toe touch right backward, and tilt	clubs .............. 2

c)	Pirouette right, clubs crossed overhead.................... 3-4

d)	Lunge left sideward, 5-8 arm circle right inward, left arm

oextended obliquely side upward, right down obliquely sideward.....	5

Hold this position..............................................6-16

e)	Straighten left knee, bend trunk left sideward, left club on

floor, right leg and right arm extended sideward...................17-32

Step swing hop to Solid Grouping.

Exercise /—(No. 2)

a)	Pendulum double arm circle outward and Pendulum double

hand circle in rear of shoulders, twice left and right.............. 1-4

b)	Double arm circle outward and double hand circle in front

and rear of shoulders . ............................................ 5-6

c)	Double arm circle outward and double hand circle in rear

and front of thighs ................................................ 7-8

d)	Stride right obliquely forward left and double arm circle

forward twice on left side (1-8 turn left)......................... 9-10

e)	6-8 turn left and double arm circle forward left on right

:side ...........................................................  11-12

0	1 K double arm circle inward with closing step.............13-14

Digitized by
47

g)	Double hand snake twist outward to position .............15-16

Repeat all stepping right - left - right................. 17-64

GROUPING.

a) Arabesque left forward arms left intermediate amplified---	1

b) Pas de Sephyr right, arms in left intermediate............... 1

c)	Repeat all................................................ 3-4

d)	Va double arm circle inward and double hand circle inward

in front of arms, bend knees (5) and hold......................... 6-16

e)	7-8 double arm circle outward arms sideward obliquely upward, and hop to a side stride position (Hold) ...................17-32

Step swing hop to Solid Grouping.

HARVARD UNIVERSITY PHYSICAL EDUCATIQI COURSES

Master’s Degree. Qualified students (college graduates) may become candidates for the degree of Master of Education in the Graduate School of Education on a program of study and training in physical education. Minimum period of residence and study one academic year, or four summer school sessions.

Harvard Certificate. Students who satisfactorily complete the full program of Theory and Practice courses offered in the Harvard Summer School of Physical Education will be granted a certificate by the University.

For information and catalogue, address William H. Geer, Director of Physical Education, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

INTERNATIONAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIANfASSOCIATION COLLEGE Springfield, Massachusetts

J. H. McCurdy, M. D., Director

Equipment—Four Athletic Fields. Two Gymnasiums, Na-tatorium, Boat House, Laboratories, Largest Physical Education Library in Existence.

Courses—Four-year course for high school graduates. Two-year course for college graduates. Degrees granted, B. P. E. and M. P. E. (Bachelor and Master of Physical Education.)

Trains Christian men for leadership in physical education.

For information address—Elmer Berry, Associate Director.

Summer Session - June 26 to July 28

Intensive Credit courses in Physical Education, Theory, and Practical Gymnastics. School of Coachfng in Football, Baseball Basket Ball, Track, Soccer, Swimming, Wrestling, and Boxing.

Public School Physical Education Course fitting for State certificates. School of Woodcraft.

For information address—Elmer Berry, Director Summer School.

Digitized by
INTERNATIONAL POCKET LIBRARY

STANDARD $0.50

KS L

1A STAND

IUboo

DO you know that the fashion in which books are issued in this country is

quite different from that adopted abroad ? In England and Ireland to a large extent, in France, Italy, Spain, Russia, and in Latin-America, the best books are issued in popular editions. Millions of books are sold in this form —the best new books and the best works of all kinds of standard literature. Why? Because the bookbuyer abroad has learned to prefer goodpaper and print AT A LOW PRICE, to cheap make-up in a fancy binding. Think of it I You can buy the ordinary new book abroad for 25 to 60 cents, while in this country it co ts from $1.00 to $2.00. In other words, you pay a tremendously disproportionate price for costly bindings.

Books by Famous Authors Kipling, Tagore, Wilde, Blasco Ibanez, Etc.

THE INTERNATIONAL POCKET LIBRARY is bound in the best Continental style with a heavy waterproof art cover, and gives you tho benefit of an extremely low price. For $2.50you can buy all TEN titles of the first series of these really remarkable books!

In any other form they would costyou$10.00to $15.00. Glance' at the list of titles, note the important introductions in many of the volumes, and remember that these are not cheap pamphlets or novelties, but a carefully edited library of good literature.

INTERNATIONAL POCKET LIBRARY^ Edited by Edmond R. Brown

First Series MADEMOISELLE FIFI airi otto rtmies

Introduction by Joseph Conrad

TALES Introduction by Wil^FoSC?11 THE GOLD-BUG and otto stories	,

Edgar ABon Pssi

TWO WESSEX TALES Thomas Hardy ]

Foreword by Conrad Aiken	'|

IMPORTANCE OF BEING EARNEST

Oscar WBdM

MODERN RUSSIAN CLASSICS

Storias by Andreyev. Gorki, Tchoker,

S3SS,

THE LAST LION	Vlcrat. BL

Foreword by Mariano Joaquin Loranta

BYVIO^I	joljW»,Tn

GTTAIQAU.	fcT—"9

XlBttM Bj WlUlSZn tfUtMT I MIS

THIS COUPON WITH $2.50 WILL INSURE IMMEDIATE DELIVER! OP THE SET POSTPAID

THE FOUR SEAS COMPANY.

Copley Theatre Bldg..

Boston, Mass.

Please send me the complete set of TEN books off R Library. I enclose $2.50 to pay for the entixo set.

Name......................................-.................

Street............................................

Place........................................................   MB

Digitized by Google
The Bird Masque
Digitized by

Google