LIBRARY

University of Montana.

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 28	MAY	1921	Ho.	298

PrtHsM By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Uln, Mlaa.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Maas.

WM. A. 8TECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered os ascondrdass matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of if arch 3, 1879.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND HEALTH PROBLEMS.

A report hy Elizabeth O'Neill, Philadelphia} upon several meetings devoted to Health at the Superintendents' Convention at Atlantic City, N. 7., March 1921.

Dr. P. P. Claxton, U. S. Commissioner of Education, Washington,

D.	C. called his third yearly conference of Physical Education as a part of the N. E. A. Convention program. The meeting was held in Morris Guards Armory, Monday, February 28, at 2:30. The conference was divided into two sections. Dr. Wood and Mr. Chamberlain presented their papers to the general assembly after which those present who wished to attend the Thrift Conference left the meeting and the Health program proceeded.

The various papers and reports read at this meeting echoed the progress that has been made in physical education during the year. The various speakers showed that health education and physical education are receiving better recognition and a better understanding Dr. Claxton explained briefly the Fess-Capper and Smith-Towner bills. The question was asked. “Who are the objectors to the passage of the bill?” Dr. Reed, president of the Am. Physical Ed. Association, answered; “The Anti-Medical men, the Osteopaths and the Christian Scientists are the chief opponents. They object on the ground of health supervision and

Digitized by LjOOQle
546

health examinations.” The major objections spoken of during the meeting were that many do not appreciate the scope of the measure, many regard it as a frill, some fear that the leadership and control of the states will gravitate to the federal government. It was stated that Japan established her physical education by imperial edict.

The Fess-Capper bill, it was said, should recognize the control of the states, with minimum requirements. “If we can get one tenth of the people to work for this bill it will pass.” (Here is where every reader of Mind and Body can help. Send a postal card to ybur congressman and senator stating that you are for the bill. Editor.)

It was most discouraging to learn that the State Legislature of New York plans to amend some of the best features of the state physical education bill, one of which is to make physical training permissible rather than mandatory. Other amendments proposed (for minor economical reasons) would reduce the number of special teachers of physical training. In one of the rural districts it was reported windows had been nailed down because “letting in fresh air” was blamed for coal costing >5.00 more in that school. (In this connection read the letter written by one of New York’s superintendents of rural schools, published elsewhere in this issue. If the “farmers” would only give some of the things introduced for their special interest half of a chance to show their value, much of the effort expended now to hold these things could be expended in constructive measures. Editor.)

The discussion on the inadequate supply of trained teachers to do the work properly brought out the following facts. Twenty-three states in this country have physical education laws. There are only 6000 trained teachers of physical education in the United States. There are not enough training schools to prepare teachers for this work. State Normal Schools, colleges and universities must aid in the preparation of teachers for physical training.

During the period Dr. Claxton presided he made many timely remarks, such as: “Congress and State Legislatures drop essentials.” “At my home the children eat first.”

Dr. Elliott has said:—“Health Education is the same as Moral Education.”

“Joy doeth good like unto a medicine.”

“The Saviour was called the healer.”

“The Greek Games were played for the sake of the game.”

“It doesn’t make much difference when you get up, if you are awake when you do.”

In his paper on: “The New Conception of Physical Education and its Relationship with Health” Dr. Jesse Williams of Columbia University, New York City, said in part:

“Physical education has always been interested in health. Only recently an organ of physical education has been willing to break away from the idea that health education was the aim of physical education. Health is a by-product. There has been a conception that physical training is an antidote or a relief from unhealthful environment. If we are going to get anywhere we must lay the foundations of the child's environment in the right way.

Digitized by Google
647

“Physical education is not an antidote. Physical education is a promotion o health. Activity in and of itself will not produce health. Hygienic exercises have been talked of as being able to cure all. We read of bending the trunk in one way or another to cure certain ills. The purpose of physical training is not that of a short cut to health. If you want to get health engage in the activities that will cause you to breathe deeply. Physical education should only be considered as leading on to the whole of life’s development.”

Dr. M. G. Brumbaugh, representing the Physical Education Service said in part:	“As I was riding to Atlantic City and reading the signs

along the beautiful meadows I ran across one with these words—‘The strength of the nation is in the health of its people.’ Personally I believe that it makes little difference whether health education is a byproduct, a concomitant or the end. We have been spending thousands of dollars on corrective measures we could avoid if we had spent the dollar on health education. This would be the case if we'used the sense with which we were born. Physical education placed in your schools would also raise the intelligence of your pupils. In Philadelphia it had the immediate effect of raising the intelligence of 240,000 children 9% in a year. Physical sanity is the safe guard against crime. Physical education lies in the hands of the people. The machinery should be in the hands of the state.”

The speaker then explained the features of the Fess-Capper Bill, the Universal Physical Education Bill.

Under the title:	“Progress in State Legislation and Organization,”

Mr. Daniel Chase, State Supervisor Phys. Ed. Albany, New York, furnished the following:

“The Legislative provision necessary to an effective State system of physical education should include the following:

1.	A clear statement of the purpose and subject of the law.

2.	Provision for administrative machinery in the State Department of Education sufficient for the effective administration of the law. This provision should be broad and flexible. Two things are essential:

(a)	State direction and supervision. The best plan is a State Director of physical education with the rank of deputy or assistant State superintendent. His powers and duties must not be narrowly defined.

(b)	Sufficient financial resources to insure the effective administration of this office, either by specific appropriation or by authorizing the State department to make adequate appropriation for this purpose out of the general school funds.

3.	Provision for the continuous physical educat on of all children and youth of school age (6-/8) in the state.

(a)	All children in all grades and departments of the public schools.

(b)	All children in institutional and private schools.

(c)	All students in normal schools and other schools in which teachers are trained.

(d)	All boys and girls of school age in industry. This may be secured by extending the continuation school program so as to make physical education obligatory up to 18; or it may be secured tiy recognizing and crediting such agencies as municipal playgrounds, boy scouts, Young

Digitized by ^ ooQle
548

Men’s Christian Associations. Attempts at precise definition in the law should be avoided. It should be left as an administrative problem under general authorization.

4.	A minimum time requirement for physical education of one hour each day. It should be explicit that this is the minimum> and that school authorities are encouraged to increase the time devoted to play, recreation, and athletics outside the regular school hours. For children in the higher grades and in industry, activities that are approved by the State director of physical education as equivalent to prescribed courses in physical education should be accepted as fulfilling, in whole or in part, the time and quality requirements in physical education.

j.	There should be a carefully drawn provision authorizing and requiring the employment of supervisors and special teachers under specified conditions, and in harmony with the administrative organization of the State. A State with a county unit organization would require county supervisors, one" with supervisory districts would require district supervision. City systems would require both supervisors and special teachers— the latter for intermediate and high schools at least. By specified conditions is meant that a supervisor should be required for a given unit of population, the size of the unit to depend upon density of population.

6.	Provision for State aid to county and local authorities in part payment of the salaries of supervisors and special teachers.

7.	Provision requiring the State Department of Education to fix qualifications of supervisors and special teachers, and to issue special licenses for the same.

8.	Provision for adequate physical education in the preparation of all teachers both for the secondary and the elementary school. The essential requirements of this part of the Teachers’ education should be prescribed by the State authorities.

9.	Special provision for training regular class teachers already in the service, in order that they may do their essential part in the program of physical education.

10. Provision requiring that pupils be graded in physical education as in other school subjects and exercises, and that satisfactory progress in physical education be a condition to promotion and graduation.

11.	Effective provision for co-ordinating medical and sanitary supervision of schools with the physical education. Otherwise such essential factors in a complete program of physical education as detection and correction of defects and sanitary conditions of grounds, buildings and equipment will be neglected. Most States having medical inspection laws will need to revise and extend them. In States having no such laws the enactment of medical inspection and physical education laws should be worked out, so as to insure effective co-ordination.

12.	if, as in some of the laws already enacted, reference is made to military training, the interrelations should be clearly recognized. A system of physical education worthy the name must include all the essentials of premilitary training; development of sound physical condition, training in care of one’s physical self, training in co-operation, respect for discipline. Drill in tactics and the manual of arms cannot be accepted as a substitute or equivalent for the course in physical education. If military training is authorized in the law, then the State Director of
549

physical education should be authorized and required to pass upon the value of any proposed plan of military training, and to accept it as substitute for physical education only in so far as it includes the health, vigor and endurance producing features of the physical education program.

“The Health Crisis in Education" was the topic of Dr. Thomas D. Wood, Chairman of the Committee on Health Problems in Education, National Council of Education. Dr. Wood said:

“The world war revealed to this country no greater weaknesses than the neglect of education and the neglect of health. Are the national lessons dependent upon this revelation to be learned or forgotten?

“During the war, when mobilization of Great Britain’s armies revealed the terrifying defects of English manhood, the Prime Minister stated in effect: 'Never again shall it be said that England neglected the welfare of her young men until they were needed for the grim business of war/

“What percentage of improvement has been made during the past year in the program of health care and health education of the army of 24,000,000 boys and girls in the schools of the United States? Fourteen states have enacted special laws for physical education since 1915. Twenty of our forty-eight states now have laws which sanction, initiate or require attention to physical education and health education in their schools. Two bills now before Congress make provisions for the practical expression of the national concern and responsibility for the health and physical fitness of the nation’s school children. It is absurd and worse, that while many voluntary national organizations unselfishly devote effort, skill and money in the effort to improve the health of the nation’s children, our federal government so largely neglects this vital part of the business of the Republic. Nobody cares about any child except his or her own, is the pithy, and more than 90 per cent truthful indictment charged by the veteran principal of a large public school.

“Today one sixth of the schools in the United States have scales for weighing the children. A city in the middle west has by a constructive program in one year reduced the number of mal-nourished pupils in several schools by 50 per cent. Health habits are being fostered by stirring appeals and motives in one fourth of the children in the schools. Voluntary organizations, some local, others state-wide, and a few national in scope are providing significant encouragement and support to the health work of the schools. Teachers and school officials in increasing numbers, are responding to the growing momentum of this health movement. Teacher-training institutions are slowly and gradually awakening to the appreciation of the needed program.

“But these scattered, partial, spasmodic efforts are hardly more than drops in the great ocean of a nation’s need for the real welfare of its children. It is impossible to estimate with accuracy the loss to the nation and to the world caused by this failure to conduct a 100 per cent program in the field of child health. Handicaps, established in childhood by health defects uncorrected, will, in a multitude of cases, never be overcome.

“What are the most pressing needs in the health program of the schools?

Digitized by t^.ooQLe
550

1.	Health examination (physical and mental) of every school child in each year of school life. This is a natural and inevitable concern of the state and a reasonable function of the school.

2.	An efficient program of follow up health work conducted by school, home and community; by official and voluntary organizations, to insure the correction of all remediable health defects in all the school children. Not 5 per cent of the needed program of health conservation, correction and reconstruction, in the forty-eight states, is being accomplished at present.

3.	Daily health inspection of pupils by parents and teachers with the help of doctors and nurses to minimize and prevent acute and communicable diseases. The children of this country could be saved an incalculable amount of loss, suffering and injury if the best available knowledge and skill regarding control of infectious and communicable disease were applied in a nation wide program in the schools of city and country as extensive and efficient as the praiseworthy campaign for a Starving Children Fund or a Red Cross Drive.

4.	A great Safety Campaign for children of school and pre-school age is a vital necessity. Deadly and ruthless warfare is being constandy waged against child life and health by unregulated traffic and industry; and by failure to provide adequate space and safe guards for normal activities of childhood. Accidents in one year in the United States, exact the tragic toll of 20,000 child lives, according to a report just issued by the Red Cross. Statistics for 1919 shows more deaths of children 10 to 14 years of age from accidents than from epidemic diseases* The need for a united campaign for safety by all the schools of the country is imperative.

J. Efficient business administration today provides constant supersupervision and tests to eliminate every controllable source of waste, and to increase production to the maximum consistent with health. A corresponding hygiene of school management must be applied to every phase of the educational program to eliminate waste and increase production in child health, child growth and child develppment.

6.	The present day plan of health education in schools which starts with simple practical health habits, convincingly motivated, wins the approval of the best psychology and pedagogy if the schools will now provide also a continuous, progressive, cumulative program from year to year, of ideas, reasons and activities relating to health sufficient to establish health attitudes, standards, tastes and ideals which will also render the fundamental health habits permanent, and act further as a successful nucleus for the growing body of health elements necessary to mature and complete citizenship. Within three years a spectacular and praiseworthy beginning has been made in this vitalized method of teaching habit. Not only hundreds of thousands of pupils, but thousands of teachers are interested to day as never before in the fascinating and dynamic ways of learning and teaching health. Much thoughtful and painstaking attention will be needed to prevent a most unfortunate reaction or anticlimax in this part of the curriculum of our schools.

7.	While the prevention of disease; the correction of health defects; the maintenance of a sanitary school environment; the avoidance of hygienic errors in school management, and a complete, rational program

Digitized by {^.oosLe
551

of health teaching will result in inestimable benefits to school children, still it must not be forgotten that some of the most valuable, positive and constructive effects of a complete education, evidenced in physical, mental and moral soundness, vigor and fitness, can be gained only by a generous, varied and continuing program of fundamental activities of mind and muscle adapted to the needs of individual children, and continued throughout school life. No phase of the program for our men in the world war produced more significant benefits than the modernized and rational program of physical education which the war training evolved and required. No more significant and essential equivalent of the beneficial by-products of war can be found perhaps for our national program of education than a rationalized program of physical education activities— play, games, sensible athletics, swimming, camping and scouting. A sensible and universal program of physical education for all girls and boys was never, in the history of mankind, more profoundly essential than just now.

8.	No part of the whole health program of the schools however, is more vitally important than the health, enthusiasm and wisdom of the teachers. Their welfare must be guarded and improved not only for themselves, but even more for the sake of the children whose careers and destinies they so profoundly influence.

"Who then can determine which phase of the health campaign of education can be more safely neglected?

"Herbert Hoover’s words ring with increasing eloquence, ‘If we could grapple with the	whole	child	situation	for one generation, our public

health, our economic efficiency, the moral character, sanity and stability of our people would advance three generations in one.* ”

Dr. Finnegan, Superintendent of Instruction then spoke on "Health . Program for the Public Schools of Pennsylvania." He said in part:

"The most accurate presentation of the need of the public schools of the state may be had from the report of the Secretary of War in 1916.. The report shows	that out of	the third	examination of 133,000 men for

admission to the	army	from	Pennsylvania only 22,000 were accepted

(110,000 were rejected).

"You will say these large numbers rejected may be explained as being caused by many	minor	defects. Even	these minor defects should be

remedied. The only health program we have today is that of medical inspection of our school children. The purpose of medical inspection was never for health instruction. Medical inspection was inaugurated to control communicable diseases.

"We should have a program of health instruction and health examination. The child must be taught to appreciate that he is just as responsible for the care of his health as he is for the care of his mind. There must be unity of action between teachers and physicians. We must start with the only authority, the state. The health instruction program is a problem that must be dealt with in the schools. We cannot proceed without the co-operation of the medical and health authorities, but they should come to the school authorities and go with them into the work.

"The program must provide for daily instruction in health. Wipe out the old time Physiology and Hygiene and write "HEALTH" in its

Digitized by Google
552

place. There must be a syllabus for the development of the child just as there is a syllabus for such subjects as Geography, History, etc. With the syllabus we must have a body of teachers. It is a great fault of the school that the teachers have not been trained for this work. The teachers must teach the fundamentals of health. The public school is an institution to train boys and girls for citizenship, not to follow a curriculum. Those in authority in the state must have a broader vision.

“There are many branches of health work. We want to hold a convention of our own and formulate a program. Too much has been said that physical training is health education. It is only one part of it. Its parts are:

1.	Division of Physical Training and Games.

2.	The School Nurse.

3.	The Medical Inspectors.

“But the program must be formulated not to overlap. Nutrition must also be taken into consideration. Health and medical authorities shall give us the benefit of their knowledge. We must learn the fundamental principles of health education. A man because of physical defects who is not able to serve his nation in time of war is, in most cases, just as unfit to serve in industry and affairs of the state and the nation in times of peace.”

The next speaker was Miss Katherine D. Blake, Principal Public School No. 6, New York City.

Miss Blake took the place of Mrs. Josephine C. Preston, Vice President National Education Association, State Superintendent of Schools, Olympia, Wash., who was to talk upon women’s concern for health improvement in the schools.

Miss Blake said that 66 national organizations are interested in some phase of the welfare of children. She made the startling statement that between the ages of 10 and 13 years one child in 12 and between the ages of 14 and 16, one child in 5 are working every day an 8 hour day. One employer said that a 10 hour day would be better, because girls would be so tired at the end of the day that it would keep them from going wrong.

In speaking of a personal experience of the help the classroom teacher can give in health training, she told the story of a little girl who was showing signs of mal-nutrition. She called the little girl to her one morning and asked what she had for her breakfast. Very glibly the child answered “two eggs, a glass of milk and a roll.” Miss B. of course doubted the truthfulness of the statement, and sent for the little girl’s sister, whom she asked to whisper in her ear just what she had had for her breakfast. Just as glibly Helen answered, “Bread and tea.” Mary knew what she should have had for breakfast and feared to tell. Mary died soon after.

Bernard Shaw said schools were devised by parents as jails to keep the children out of their way.

Miss Blake urged that we drive home the following points:	“Joy

in life is worth while; Joy in life pays; Make children happy and they will be healthy.”

“A Back-Yard Community Center, A University Laboratory,” was discussed by LeRoy E. Bowman, Columbia University, New York, N. Y.

Digitized by ^ooQle
558

He spoke of a training service for cummunity workers at Colliers School and Social Science. This Block center consists of five back yards, ist Avenue and 37th Street New York City under the direction of Miss Clapp. The first thing that was done was to make a survey of the neighboring conditions. The following apparatus was installed:—a slide, sand box, giant stride, small swings, handball and basketball court. In addition to the five back yards there were four small rooms that were pressed into service as club rooms. The purpose of the organization was to help the members of the community to organize interests and activities of their own. It is not organized for service, to give recreation, nor to keep the girls and boys off the streets, but to give the people of that block an opportunity to do something for themselves. In order to do this it is necessary first to give them an opportunity to gain confidence in the leadership. Before they will give this confidence the worker or leader must show merit. The settlement is in a typical Irish community. Organization is one thing, but real organization is another thing. To get folks together, to be able to get Mrs. Moriarity to like Mrs. McCarty is'no easy task if there has been some feud between them.

The reports one gets usually tell about the things that succeed instead of telling of the failures, which may be danger signals to . others using similar methods. In this case clubs were started that did not prove a success. The workers learned that it is dangerous to give too much control into the hands of those who are not ready for self-government clubs. An overhead committee was therefore formed, the workers 'developed a house council, and as soon as the work in any line showed signs of success the overhead committee disappeared. It was found that the form of organization had little to do with the effectiveness, but leadership had everything to do with it. There is no technique to hand out to others. First give to them the opportunity to start with whatever the girls and boys wish to start with, later let us begin to present standards. If the girls insist upon talking about dress and cosmetics let them do so, and very soon you can lead them into ideas of health standards. Paternalism is not the way by which to organize society. It is taking away the pain from society. Mal-adjustment is the thing that drives folks on to do things for themselves.

“The Chamber of Commerce as a Promoter of Community Centers” was discussed by Col. C. Seymour Bullock, Municipal Recreation Com., So. Bend., Ind.

He said in part:—“The public school is the symbol of democracy. We can get what we go after if we go after it in the right way. Like the spies who went out to the Land of Canaan we can find the big grapes, the rich fruits, or we can find the big giants. South Bend recreation centers are organized on the principle that democracy is participation; the community is made responsible for the centers. At first they were organized with a principal who acted as a social secretary. It was soon found that the program was dominated too much by what the principal wanted and the plan was not a success. Later committee government was established with a president in charge. This was an improvement. The programs are planned by the president and various committees. There is no paid principal. The only paid workers so far as the writer could learn were the teachers in charge of gymnastics, dancing etc. Volun-

Digitized by CjOOQle
554

tary leadership through committee government seems to work satisfactorily in this place. A good, workable plan, relating to the observance of the rules of the dance may be of help to others. Circulars of information are printed. A picture of a couple in a good dancing position is printed on the cover. If a strange couple is seen on the floor not observing the rules of the dance, or if any of the dancers are found dancing cheek-tocheek, some one steps up with the printed circular and asks if the couple has noted the suggestions made, which is generally ail that is needed to make the correction.

“The public forum is established after the fashion of the one in Hyde Park, London. Anyone is allowed to talk himself out upon any subject he pleases. He may say just what he pleases. Nothing is barred from the program except that which savors of commercialism. Organized labor meetings may be called at any time. After a man expresses himself in public it is out of his system, and less harm can come of it than if he thought it out under cover. When a man berates everything in one of these meeetings someone usually presents another view-point, and he is asked why if this is such a dreadful place to live in, did he ever come to America, or if things are so bad, what can be done to make them better, and thus a constructive thought Is suggested. We cannot accomplish much by prohibiting expression.'*

“Some School Methods That Will Produce the Quality of Good Citizenship" was the subject taken by C. L. Wright, Supt. City Schools, Huntingdon, W. Va. Mr. Wright asked several questions and answered them for his hearers.

He said:—“One of the chief functions of the school is to produce a robust and vigorous American citizenship. What is it by which individual and social characteristics may be developed? What are Typical individual qualities?

They are: Initiative,

Intelligence,

Adaptability,

Self reliance,

Self respect,

What are Social characteristics?

Sympathy, ability to put ones self in the place of another. Responsibility for the group,

Obedience and respect for majority rule,

Ideal of service.

“What methods will produce an ideal citizenship?" These qualities have been taught far more on the playground than in the classroom. Let me explain a project that was used in a junior high school by a teacher of English whose purpose was to give the children an incentive to write a composition. She suggested a survey. She told the children to look for factories, rivers, parks, playgrounds. The Ohio River immediately presented several avenues of thought, some improvement was in progress, new locks, a dam were being constructed. Then commerce was suggested, and the story of the river, etc.

“The students divided themselves into groups according to their own interests. In the old days of required prim behavior one would have viewed the whole situation with horror and would have pronounced

Digitized by L.ooQle
555

it a total wreck with no insurance. Children and chairs in groups (which formerly would have been considered very disorderly) heads together, discussing in audible tones the plan of action to be decided upon. Soon the various groups started out to investigate their various problems.

“One group had chosen to look after parks and playgrounds. They took note books and paper and noted the various parks and vacant lot spaces. They noted the distance children would have to go to reach these play spaces. They also noted where children played and what they played. The dangers of the various streets were noted. They found three vacant lots where nine boys played ball. They found nineteen vacant lots upon which thirty-nine boys were at play. One day they discovered that these lots were advertised for sale, and they learned the selling price. Later they discovered that someone had purchased the lots for building sites. They were much disturbed as to what would become of the boys who had been playing upon these lots.

“They secured an engineeer's map from which some of the group made an enlargement and put in the parks, playgrounds and proposed playground sites. They discovered that it would be cheaper to buy unoccupied land than to demolish buildings. The children made up a playground budget, asked the Superintendent of Schools if the amount was too large. He gave some helpful suggestions and sent them to the Park Commissioners for further help. The little girl who was captain of the group presented her report to the school in such an interesting way that the Superintendent asked that she should present her report to the meeting of the Chamber of Commerce. The teacher feared that it was asking too much of the little girl, that she-would not want to do it, but suggested that the Superintendent ask her. He did so with the result that she accepted if two of the boys could go along to hold the maps. She made a deep impression upon the members gathered to hear her talk; in fact, she told them things about their own town which they had not known. In closing she shook her finger and asked, “Are you men going to let these lots be taken and provide no place for the children to play?” As a result of the work of these boys and girls, improvements were made and playgrounds were established.”

Much is being said about the project method. A warning note was sounded upon the too lavish use of the word, “project”. Other words have caused a similar stir in the educational field. “Apperception” was so used and misused that Dr. McMurray of Columbia University confessed that he had been forced to say “apperception be damned.” The word “project” will be similarly doomed unless its meaning, its object and the method of application is so clearly understood that fadists will not dare to desecrate its true spirit,

A project is a problem, a difficulty, an end to be reached. The meaning of the word is something which involves motive activity. The essence of its meaning is shown in the attitude of the child when he is at work.* Dr. Kilpatrick said, “You cannot impose a project upon a

* (Note by Editor: If we had more “projects” to motivate some of our physical education work we could, in many cases, increase the joy of the paricipants. An undue part of physical education still has no relation to anything that naturally interests the pupil.)

Digitized by Google
656

child because you cannot impose a purpose from without. It must be built up from within; around the ideas of purposeful activity. We do not know how to run this thing yet. The kindergarten can come nearer to it. In the grades we must keep one eye on the curriculum and the other on the child. The child is a bundle of dynamic energy—get him more thoroughly at work—the whole child at work in the direction of better ways of doing things. We understand a little better the psychology of what is essential. Go slow — don’t become fadists, but we must get more from the children than we have been getting.”

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN RURAL SCHOOLS.

Views of a District Superintendent *

Canasarago, N. Y., March 6, 1921.

Mr. Roy F. Seymour Specialist in Physical Training State Department of Education Albany, N. Y.

My dear Mr. Seymour:

Your letter of March 4 received and I wish that I had the ability to express to you my convictions in regard to the value of physical training in rural schools gained through actual experience and observation of the work in these rural schools of Alleghany County. I cannot go into detail but will give you at least some generalities.

I believe that this, physical training program was as hard to thrust down the throats of the people of my district, for that was the process, however unwise, as in any district in the State. Invariably where the proposition of starting the program in these schools was voted upon in a school district meeting it was voted down unanimously. It was gotten under way only through threat of losing the public money if the law was not complied with. The reasons are the worn ones for opposition to this program. “We didn’t have it when we were in school and why do we need it now?” And “The rural boys and girls get all the exercise they need.” You know that the conviction of most such folks is that “the school that costs the least is the best school” so far as they are concerned, for a life of isolation is a self-centering life.

You see that the conditions under which this physical training program was introduced into my district were no different than those in other districts. Yet it has won a warm spot in the hearts of the most of the people who have seen its value, and why? The whole program in its broadest sense appealed to me and I became enthusiastic over it and made up my mind that it was a program that could be carefully and slowly sold to the public, for it answered a long felt need. Too many have simply tolerated the program. They have complied with the letter but not the spirit of the law. The success of the program depended upon the attitude of the teachers, and it needed first of all that the superintendent be enthusiastic before he could inspire the teachers. The

* This letter was written by a district superintendent of schools in answer to an inquiry asking for his opinion of the value of special teachers of physical training in rural districts.

Digitized by t^ooQle
557

program has worked in my district. The parents at least tolerate it, the teachers are enthusiastic over it, and the pupils love it for they tell me so and why.

Some of the things physical training has brought to the rural boys and girls in my district.

(1)	Practical and vitalized physiology. Every pupil carries out certain health points that are recorded on a very neat health chart in each school. These points vary but every school emphasizes clean teeth, weekly bath, sleeping in fresh air, clean clothing and in general observation of the health rules that underly healthy living. These health rules have become health habits for they are observed over the long vacations. There is a marked improvement in the personal appearance of these boys and girls. Until these health charts were started it was surprising to know how few observed these health rules regularly. After feeling the comfort of such care of the body, and thinking of the body as a big beautiful machine that functions according to the care we give it much of the false modesty and indecency has been overcome and stronger, healthier and happier boys and girls assured. We need these physical training specialists to further the program and to spur on and direct our too many week rural teachers.

(2)	The boys and girls are taught to play, through play team work. The home life of so many of our boys and girls in rural sections is not conducive to self expression. There are too many chores to do. The school is giving them this chance by the direction of our physical training teachers. It is bringing a new and happier meaning of life to many boys and girls through the spirit of play. I think of the Near East Relief in this connection. First the body of the refugee is brought back to strength by food, and then the paid workers bring back the minds and imaginations and happiness to the sufferers through play. To almost as great an extent the play spirit is needed in our rural communities where it is too often suppressed, or at least not given proper chance for development. Dr. Finley called our physical training teachers “Angels of Hope" and such reference is no exaggeration to one who knows real rural conditions.

(3)	I have left the setting-up drill until last for I believe too many misunderstand the broad physical training program and interpret it only in terms of formal gymnastics. Of course in our one room rural schools no formal gymnastics is given, but I am thankful to say that we do have the hourly two-minute setting-up-drill. Boys and girls tell me that they can return to their lessons better after such breaks in their routine. The drill sends the blood supply away from the brain and swirls it through the body. The deep breathing expands the lungs. Correct posture is developed. These drills frequently suffice to correct cases of round shoulders, often found among rural children from having carried too heavy loads. Always the room is aired, for the drills must be given with fresh air circulating. I believe that under the present system there is too great variation from week to week in these drills but this can easily be remedied.

I wish you could see some of the folk dances that are carried on, out in schools where such things were never heard of before we had the services of these special teachers. I might say that the communities are

Digitized by <^.ooQle
658

co-operating now, for since fall we have put in twenty-four victrolas in as many schools of my district, and we hope to have one in every school in my district within another year. With the special records the physical training program has been made more interesting. We are planning to put on some of these rhythmic drills at our spring fielddays. They certainly teach the children grace and rhythm that has been lacking and the lack of which has branded rural children as “Clod-Hoppers”.

(4)	Our field days are the final examinations on physical training and unlike the final exams in other branches they are looked forward to with pleasure for weeks in advance. These events give a rare opportunity to sell this program to the public, for what they see they believe. Our pupils have jumping pits and chinning bars at their schools and practice the events for weeks before the finals. They come with a spirit to win. There is a splendid spirit of rivalry, and more benefits than you can count come from letting all the boys and girls meet and mix and get acquainted. We try to have events for the parents and visitors that sometimes stir up keen rivalry. I know that these have always been worth while and that the physical training teacher is indispensible in carrying out the program.

George W. Works, chairman of the committee of twenty-one has stated that the ideal of the committee is to bring to every rural boy and girl an equal chance in education with that of the boy and girl in the city and larger villages. To take away our vitalized health program (which is really vitalized, kept alive and inspired by our physical training specialists) from our boys and girls and because of greater wealth and resources to draw from give the city * boys and girls school nurses, health clinics, etc.; to take away our leaders in recreation pand play and give to our city children well equipped play grounds and play ground instructors; to take away our simple setting-up drill and leave for the city children gymnasiums and gymnasium instructors, is this working toward that grand and unselfish ideal outlined by the committee?

To take away the compulsion of physical training and the provision for specialists in physical education is to cripple the whole program. It is to undo the hard, discouraging work that has been effectively done for physical training, which is now functioning as effectively as the other subjects of the curriculum. I say it will cripple it, for how well I know that we have many teachers who are too ready to drop anything that means work no matter what the merit of the thing is. If we had well trained teachers in all our schools, and teachers who love their work we could at least more easily dispense with these specialists. We hope that this program will be allowed to live, for we need it. God knows that we who believe in it because we have given it a fair trial and know it is worth while, will use every effort to keep it alive, but we also see that without help the work will be discouraging.

May the legislature see no economy in crippling the advantages for better rural schools and may you have the power to help them to see this.

Yours for a continuation of the physical training program,

Sincerely

(Signed) W. H. Garwood,

District Superintendent.

Digitized by

Google
569

JOHN R. ALLENS’ LAST PRONOUNCEMENTS ON HEATING AND VENTILATION.*

Principal Points Made in a Characteristic Address by the Former Director of the Heating Research Bureau.

When the occasion demanded it, John R. Allen never hesitated to upset preconceived opinions and pet theories regarding heating and ventilating and his hearers were always sure that his statements were not made idly or without the application of the keenest analytical reasoning. Less than two weeks before his death Dr. Allen, in an address before the Eastern Pennsylvania Chapter of the heating engineers* society, and reported in the Society*s Journal, expressed his judgment on many of the commonly accepted ideas in this field of engineering; in the light of later events, his statements have assumed an added importance as his last pronouncements on the subject.

Importance of Duet.

In his discussion of the effect of dust, there is a note of pathos, where he states: “You, perhaps, do not realize the importance of dust, because most of you are young, but as you get older you will, because mpst pf us old fellows die of pneumonia; and dust is the reason for pneumonia.**’ Twelve days later Dr. Allen was himself dying of pneumonia at his home in Pittsburgh.

Dr. Allen characterized as the most important step in the history of the heating engineers* society the adoption of a standard for ventilation, referring to the society’s “synthetic air chart.** It was here that he started to make his hearers “sit up and take notice.**

Fundamentals of Physiology.

“It might be well,** he began “to state a few fundamentals regarding physiology, as I find in my travels that some people arc not familiar with all the workings of the human system in connection with ventilation. The very first thing we meet with in ventilation is that it ha* nothing to do with the chemical action in the lungs. As far as the chemical action of the lungs is concerned, you can neglect it. A man’s-lungs will breathe anything within reason—they are wonderful apparatus-in that respect. We breathe in our cities the dirtiest kind of air without any effect chemically. A man’s lungs will stand concentration of carbon dioxide up to 500 parts in 10,000, when our former standard of ventilation used to be 10; we can therefore forget carbon dioxide as far as ventilation is concerned. As far as the chemical analysis of the air is concerned, the air inside a room is chemically just the same as outside; we find practically no chemical difference.

“A man is exactly like a steam boiler. He breathes oxygen in the air and eats carbon and hydrogen and unites those in the blood by a process called metabolism; and metabolism takes place throughout the entire system, so that a man’s grate bars—his furnace where he bums the coal—is throughout his entire system. After he turns that carbon and hydrogen into carbon dioxide and water (he doesn’t form carbon

* From the Heating and Ventilating Magazine.

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
560

•	t	«	*

monoxide but makes complete combustion), he carries it into the lungs where it is released, the carbon dioxide and water being taken out by the air, which he breathes, in the form of water and carbon dioxide. „ Our lungs always contain about 400 parts in 10,000 of carbon dioxide—about 100 times the carbon dioxide that is contained in the air—and the air issuing from our lungs is practically saturated with water.

Control of Body Temperature the Important Factor.

“Thus, the principal function of the lungs is to remove the carbon dioxide and the water. A man does not breathe very much air; roughly speaking, he breathes about 22 cu. ft. of air an hour. So far as the question of breathing is concerned, it does not take much air for a man. The most important function is the control of temperature in the body, there is no function more accurate in the human system than temperature control. If our temperature rises more than 50 or 6° they put us in bed; if it rises 8° or io° they put us in a coffin.

“Temperature in the human system is controlled by loss of heat in three ways: by radiation, by convection, and by evaporation. The latter is the process by which most of the controlling is accomplished; that is, our radiant heat remains practically the same, but the evaporated heat varies very largely, and evaporation is produced by secreting moisture on the skin, which moisture is evaporated. For the moistuic to evaporate we must have proper temperature, humidity and circulation; so our temperature control is subject to three things: temperature, Humidity and circulation, and those are the three most important things in ventilation.

Conductivity of Class.

Later on, in the discussion, Director Allen had some more startling things to say. For instance, on the conductivity of glass, he said that “in going over all the experiments made on glass we find that the physicists have not told us what the conductivity of glass is. I wr6te to the Bureau of Standards, and although they can tell us about the diamond and mother of pearl, they cannot tell us anything about glass. I have some results which show that the conductivity of glass may vary as high as 100% for different kinds of glass. When making experiments on glass we have to know the glass mixture; we have to have a chemical analysis of the glass. It may be possible to make a glass that is going to lose less heat. There is no question that the thickness is a very important item.

Need for Better Building Construction.

In reply to a question on building construction, Director Allen declared:

“One thing that must be impressed on the people of this country is that we should build real houses. I was tremendously struck with that question in moving from Minneapolis down to Pittsburgh. In Pittsburgh, we have a mere ‘shed’; at Minneapolis we had a real house. In Minneapolis they build houses with plaster, studs, sheathing and insulating material and then cover it with paper and clapboards. Thus they have houses with fur overcoats on them and every window from attic to cellar is a double window. At Minneapolis I burned less coal for heating with the thermometer at 30° below zero than in Michigan with

Digitized by <^.ooQte
561

the thermometer at zero. With high-priced coal, we should build houses to correspond. It costs very little to put on that insulating material, and its cost can be saved in a couple of years by reduction of coal bills.

“It pays to use the double windows; for they save all this trouble with moisture on the glass. The humidity can be run up very much higher without the disadvantage of moisture and frost on the glass, which is very objectionable to housekeepers. The people in the milder climates will have to learn to use double glass. This society should stimulate the building of better houses, so that they will not have to put in such expensive heating plants and burn so much fuel, which is a waste of money.” Furring of Exterior Walls.

D. Knickerbacker Boyd asked if the plastering on exterior walls should not always be on furring and this gave Director Allen an opportunity for the further expresion of his ideas: “I have not made any experiments, but my experience is they should all be furred. Moisture penetration is very much reduced by furring and the heat transmission is tremendously improved by furring. This society has a record of coal burnt in various localities and we found more coal burnt per room in Texas than in North Dakota. In the milder climates more coal is wasted than in the cold climates. For instance, there is a bigger wastage of heat in Georgia than in North Dakota, South Dakota and Montana, where they really save heat, and it would surprise you to see how little radiation is used up there. They use less radiation in Minneapolis than in Philadelphia, and also smaller boilers, and they get better results.”

The Open Window.

Toward the close of the discussion someone openly broached the question of opening windows in cold weather, especially at night, and this is what Director Allen had to say on that subject:

“Most people are crazy about opening windows at night. I do not know why they open them. It certainly is not to get better air, because the air outside and inside is just the same. The only reason I can see is to get circulation, and they get it at big expense. When we expose ourselves in a room at zero temperature we cannot rest as well because at zero it takes about 10% to heat the body and carry it out of the lungs. The lungs are then about three times as active as when sleeping in a warm room. The only reason we open the windows is to make the skin function. But when we have a very cold room we put a whole mass of blankets on top of us and just why we have had this big campaign for fresh air and wasting coal I do not know.”

NOTICE:

We have prepared reprints of the following exercises which will form a part of the 32nd National Tournament of the A. G. U. at Chicago, in June. These reprints may be ordered in quantities of 1 to 5 at 15 cents each; larger quantities, at 10 cents each.

Digitized by CjOOQle
562

THIRTY-SECOND NATIONAL TOURNAMENT OF THE AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

Obligatory Free Exercises Arranged by Alfred O. Wild, Chicago, 111.

The Exercises consist of two groups. Each group contains four exercises. The Exercises are executed left and right and then repeated.

Music:	“The	Whip,”	by	Abe	Holzmann.	Play	as	written;	repeat

last 32 counts for intermission between groups. Omit introduction second time.

FIRST GROUP.

Exercise 1.

A—Swing arms forward and place hands in front of shoulders—

Fig. 1 ................................................... 1-2

B—Lower trunk forward and straighten arms sideward—Fig. 2 ...	3-4

Fig. 1	Fig.	2

C—Raise trunk and layout left sideward (trunk erect), swing arms

downward and fore-upward—Fig. 3 ............................5-6-7-8

D—Lunge left sideward, double arm circle to the left (left arm completes circle to upward position), right arm three-quarter

circle into sideward position—Fig. 4 ....................9-10-11-12

E—Swing left leg sideward and lower left arm sideward............... 13

F—Close left to right foot and lower arms into starting position ..	14

Pause ........ ..................................... .........15-i«

Exercise 2.

A—Rise on toes and raise arms sideward—Fig. 5............... 1-2

B—Bend knees deep and swing arms forward—Fig. 6............. 3*4

C—Layout left back (trunk erect) and swing arms obliquely back-downward—Fig. 7 ..........................................j-6-7-8

Digitized by
Fig. 3

Fig. 4

Fig. 5

Fig. 6

D—Lunge left sideward, swing arms fore-upward and then left arm obliquely side-upward and right arm obliquely side-downward;

turn head to the left—Fig. 8 ...........................9-10-11-12

E—Raise left leg and arms sideward ................................ 13

F—Close left to right foot, swing arms sideward and lower arms

into starting position ........................................ 14

Pause .......................................................IJ-16

Digitized by v^ooQle
6*4

Fig. 7	Fig.	8

Exercise 3.

A—Straddle left obliquely fore-outward (with eighth turn of trunk

left) and swing arms fore-upward—Fig. 9...................

B—Bend left knee and bend upper trunk backward, lower arms sideward, palms upward—Fig. 10 ...............................

DS««.»Google

1-2

3"4
565

Fig. 11

Fig. 12

C—Change knee bending, bend trunk forward and swing arms upward (arms in line with leg)—Fig. II ..........................J-6-7-8

D—Layout left obliquely back-inward (trunk erect) and turn trunk right, swing arms downward and right sideward; turn head

right—Fig. 12	......................................9-10-11-12

E—Swing left leg and arms sideward................................. 13

F—Close left to right foot and lower arms into starting position...	14

Pause ........................................................1J-16

Fig. 13

Fig. 14

Digitized by v^.ooQle
566

Exercise *

A—Place left foot sideward and raise arms sideward—Fi± B—Lunge left obliquely fore-inward, turn head left and j

hand in back of head—Fig. 14.................................

C—Quarter turn right on heel, change knee bending, ben forward and turn trunk slightly right, swing arms upwa fore-downward, placing left hand on right knee, and raise arm sideward (hand clinched to fist), turn head to the

Fig- 15 .....................................................

D—Quarter turn left and layout backward (trunk erect), arms downward and obliquely fore-upward—Fig. 16 p-Jt,

E—Eighth turn left, swing arms and left leg sideward.............

F—Close left to right foot and lower arms into starting position_

Pause ..............................................1

Fig. IS IS SECOND CROUP Exercise I.

A—Raise left leg and arms left sideward—Fig. iy . ..................

B---Layout left obliquely back-inward, bend trunk slightly left side-

ward, swing left arm downward, placing left hand on right knee

and straighten right arm sideward; turn head to the right-----

Fig. 18 .....................................................   3—+

C---Quarter turn left, lunge left forward, swing right arm down-

ward and obliquely fore-upward and left arm obliquely back-

downward (hands clinched) Fig- J9...........-............ y—S—y—S

D---Quarter turn right, change knee bending, bend trunk right side-

ward9 swing right arm upward, then side-downward and bend arm in back of trunk, swing left arm side-upward and bend it over head, head turned to left Fig- 20..............—10— ri—

Digitized by

Gooc‘^/c
■ 567

Fig. 17	Fig.	18

E—Straighten trunk and arms and raise left leg sideward ............ 13*

F—Close left to right and lower arms into starting position.......	14

Pause ........................................................15-16*

Fig. 19

Fig. 20

Exercise 2.

A—Layout left obliquely back-inward with eighth turn of trunk to the left, swing left arm obliquely back-downward, and swing right arm and bend it, hand in front of left shoulder (hands clinched)—Fig. 21 ............................................. 1-2

Digitized by L,ooQle
568

Fig. 21

Fig. 22

B—Quarter turn right, layout left sideward (on toes), trunk bent right sideward, swing arms sideward and turn head to the left

(hands open)—Fig. 22 ......................................  3—4

C—Quarter turn left, fallout left forward, swing right arm obliquely fore-upwarcl and left arm obliquely left downward (arms in line with trunk and legs)—Fig. 23............................5-6-7-$

Fig. 23

Fig. 24

D—Layout left backward (trunk erect) on toes, change position of

arms and bend left arm over head—Fig. 24 ....9-10-11—12
569

E—Straighten arms sideward, raise left leg sideward................. 13

F—Close left to right foot and lower arms to starting position ....	14

Pause ........................................................15—16-

Fig. 25

Fig. 26

Exercise 3.

A—Raise left leg backward and swing arms obliquely fore-upward—

Fig. 25.......................................................... 1-2

B—Layout left forward (trunk bent backward) and place hands

in front of shoulders—Fig. 26 ................................... 3-4

C—Quarter turn right, fallout left sideward (trunk bent left sideward,) swing arms fore-downward and right sideward, and turn head right—Fig.	27 ....................................5~6-7-8

D—Quarter turn left, place left foot backward and kneel left, swing arms forward, bend right arm, hand in front of left shoulder, and swing left arm obliquely back-downward—Fig. 28 ..9-10-11-12

E—Straighten right knee, raise left leg backward and arms sideward. 13

F—Close left to right foot and lower arms into starting position. . .	14

Pause ..........................................................15-16

Digitized by v^ooQle
Fig. 27

Fig. 28

Exercise 4.

A—Fallout left forward and swing arms obliquely fore-upward—

Fig. 29 (arms in line with trunk and legs)................... 1-2

B—Layout left backward (on toe) and swing arms fore-downward,

placing hands on floor—Fig. 30............................... 3-4

Digitized by v^.ooQle
571

’ Fig. 31	Fig.	32

’ Fig. 31	Fig.	32

C—Straighten right leg and raise it backward and bend arms—

Fig. 31 ................................................5-6-7-*

D—Lunge right foreward (trunk erect) and swing arms sideward—

Fig. 32 .............................................9-10-11-12

E—Swing arms upward and raise left leg backward................ 13

F—Close left to right foot and swing arms fore-downward........ 14

Pause ....................................................15-16

INDIAN CLUB EXERCISES FOR THE WOMEN S CLASSES

Thirty-second National Gymnastic Tournament,

Arranged by E. Klafts.

Music:	“Dream	Memories,”	by	Walter Rolfe.

Play as written and repeat last strain for the last exercise.

Introduction ....................................................8	counts

Rest with clubs at side.............................................. 1-4

Raise arms	forward .................................................. 5

Move arms	sideward ................................................ 6

Raise arms	upward .................................................. 7

Lower clubs to starting position ...................................... 8

FIRST GROUP.

Exercise 1.

Double arm circle outward and double hand circle outward in rear

of shoulders ...................................................... 1-2

Three-quarter double arm circle outward (arms crossed in front of

chest .............................................................. 3

Horizontal double hand circle outward above arms, moving arms

sideward (to sideward	position) .................................. 4
572

Fig. 1	Fig.	2

Step left sideward and place right foot obliquely backward inward and three-quarter arm circle left outward to upward position,

turn head right (right arm remains)—Fig. 1......................

Step right sideward and close left to right with three-quarter arm circle inward left to sideward position ..................................

Repeat 5-8, starting to the right............................

5“*

7~8

9-1 a
573

Three-quarter double arm circle outward and double hand circle out-

ward in rear of shoulders......,................................13-14

Double arm circle outward to starting position ......................15-16

Repeat all to the right .............................................17-32

Exercise 2.

Double arm circle inward and double hand circle inward in rear of

shoulders ....................................................... 1-2

Three-quarter double arm circle inward to sideward position ........... 3

Horizontal double hand circle inward over arms with moving arms

forward (to forward position) ..................................... 4

Step left forward with double hand circle forward outside of arms . .	5

Place right foot forward and swing arms obliquely backward downward—Fig. 3 ....................................................... 6

Step right backward, close left to right and swing arms forward upward with double hand circle backward outside of arms to a crossed position of clubs over head—Fig. 4 ........................... 7-8

Repeat 5-8, stepping right	forward ............................... 9-12

D(ouble arm circle inward and double hand circle inward in rear of

shoulders...................................................... 13-14

Double arm circle inward'to starting position .....................15-16

Repeat all to the right ............................................17-32

Exercise 3.

Double arm circle left and double hand circle to the left (left in rear

of shoulder, right in rear of head) ............................ 1-2

Three-quarter double arm circle to the left (to sideward right position) .........................................................    3

Horizontal double hand circle left over arms (arms moving through

forward position	to sideward left position) ..................... 4

Step left, sideward, cross right in rear and bend both knees, half double arm circle left to right sideward position and tilt clubs.

—Fig- 5 ........................................................ S"6
574

Step right sideward, closfc left to right and three-quarter double arm

circle right to starting position . ............................... 7~8

Repeat 5-8 to the right, starting with three-quarter arm circle right. 9—12

Double arm circle to the left and double hand circle in rear of

shoulders and head ...............................................I3~I4

Double arm circle left to starting position ..........................15—16

Repeat all to the right ..............................................*7~32

Fig. 7	Fig.	8

Exercise 4.

Double hand circle forward outside of arms, swing arms obliquely

backward downward and bend trunk forward—Fig. 6 .................. 1-2

Swing arms forward and double horizontal hand circle outward over

arms to sideward position .................;...................... 3—4

Step left backward and place right foot backward with three-quarter double arm circle outward to crossed position of clubs over head—Fig. 7 .......................................................... 5-6

Step right forward, close left to right, and three-quarter double arm

circle inward to sideward position and tilt clubs—Fig. 8 ......... 7-8

Repeat 5-8, stepping right .......................................... 9-12

Three-quarter double arm circle outward and double hand circle in

rear of shoulders ...............................................13-14

Double arm circle outward to starting position.......................15-16

Repeat all to the right .............................................17-32

Digitized by Google
575

Fig. 11 SECOND GROUP Exercise 1.

Fig. 11 SECOND GROUP Exercise 1.

Double arm circle outward and double hand circle outward in rear

of shoulders .................................................. 1-2

Double arm circle outward and double hand circle outward in front

of arms (arms upward) ......................................... 3-4

Double arm circle outward and double hand circle outward in rear

of shoulders .................................................. 5-6

Three-quarter arm circle outward (arms crossed in front of chest) ...	7

Double horizontal hand circle outward over arms to sideward position and lunge left forward—Fig. 9 ............................. 8

Bend trunk forward and horizontal double hand circle inward over the

arms to forward	position—Fig. 10.............................. 9-10

Straighten trunk (shift weight on to right foot), raise left leg forward and move arms sideward—Fig. 11 ........................... II

Hold position ....................................................... 12

Fig. 10

Digitized by Google
Lower left leg, arm circle right outward and hand circle left in rear

of shoulders .................................................... 13

Arm circle left and hand circle right outward.......................... 14

Double arm circle outward to starting position .....................15-16

Repeat all to the right.............................................17-32

Fig. 14

Digitized by v^.ooQle
577

Exercise 2.

Double arm circle inward and double hand circle inward in rear of

shoulders........................................................ 1-2

Half double arm circle inward, hand circle inward in front of thighs

and half double arm circle inward to upper position.............. 3-4

Double arm circle inward and double hand circle inward in rear of

shoulders....................... .............................. 5-6

Three-quarter double arm circle inward to sideward position ............ 7

Horizontal double hand circle inward over arms to forward position

and layout left backward, (trunk erect)—Fig. 12 ................... 8

Bend upper trunk backward and horizontal double hand circle outward over arms to sideward position—Fig. 13 ................... 9-10

Straighten right knee, raise left leg backward and raise arms obliquely sideward upward—Fig.	14................................ 11

Hold position ........................................*................ 12

Lower leg, arm circle right inward and hand circle left inward in rear

of shoulders...................................................... 13

Arm circle left inward and hand circle right inward ................... 14

Double arm circle inward to	starting position .......................15-16

Repeat all to the right .............................................17-32

Fig. 15	Fig. 16

Exercise 3.	,

Double arm circle left and double hand circle to the left (left in rear

of shoulder, right in rear of head) .......................... i-*

Double arm circle left and double hand circle left in front of arms

(arms are upward) ............................................ 3“4

Double arm circle left and double hand circle to the left in rear of

shoulders and head ........................................... 5“^

Digitized by L.ooQLe
578

Three-quarter double arm circle left to right sideward position......	7"

Lunge left sideward and double horizontal hand circle over arms to

left sideward position—Fig. 15 ..................................... 8

Bend trunk left and double horizontal hand circle right over arms to

right sideward position—Fig. 16......................;.......... 9—icr

Straighten left knee, raise left leg sideward and double arm circle

right to left sideward position—Fig. 17 ........................... 11

Hold position .......................................................... 12

Lower leg, hand circle left outward in rear of left shoulder and three-

quarter arm circle right inward ..................................  13

Hand circle right inward in rear of shoulder and arm circle left outward .............................................................. 14

Double arm circle left to starting position..........................15-16'

Repeat all to the right..............................................17-32-

Fig. 17

Exercise 4.

Double arm circle and double hand circle outward in rear of shoulders 1-2’

Half double arm circle outward, hand circle outward in front of

thighs and half double arm circle outward to upper position ....	3-4-

Double arm circle outward and double hand circle outward in rear of

shoulders ........................................................ $-6

Three-quarter arm circle outward (arms crossed in front of chest)...	7

Lunge left sideward and double horizontal hand circle outward over

arms to sideward position—Fig. 18................................... 8

Quarter turn, left, kneel right and half circle outward (both arms

forward)—Fig. 19	............................................... 9

Double hand circle forward outside of arms ............................. 10

Rise, quarter turn right, raise left leg sideward, straighten left arm, and half arm circle right downward (inward) to sideward position of arms—Fig.	20............................................. 11

Hold position .......................................................... 12

Digitized by

Google
579

Lower leg and half double arm circle outward to arms crossed in

front of chest ................................................... 13

One and three-quarter double arm circle inward to starting position. 14-16 Repeat all to the right ..............................................17-32

Fig. 19	Fig.	20

WAND EXERCISES.

For the Senior Men’s Classes at the 32nd National Gymnastic

Tournament.

Arranged by Jos. Kripner, Chicago, 111.

The Exercises are described only to one side, but are to be executed left-right-left-right.

Music:	“The	Battleship Connecticut March,” by Fulton.

Introduction is played twice; also for the Interlude. Omit 12 Bars after the Third Exercise in both groups, otherwise play as written. During the first eight counts remain in position.

Digitized by
580

During the second eight counts: Stride left obliquely forward outward

and grasp hat ........................................................... 1-2

Bend left knee and bend trunk forward and place hat on ground. . . . 3-4 Straighten trunk and knee, grasp upper end of wand with left hand. .	5-6

Close left to right and lower wand to starting position (wand horizontal in front) .................................................. 7-8

Fig. 1	Fig.	2

FIRST GROUP.

Exercise 1.

A—Stride left sideward and bend arms (wand in front of shoulders)

—Fig. 1 ....................................................      -	-

B—Bend left knee, straighten left arm upward and right arm sideward (wand obliquely over head)—Fig. 2......................... 5-8

Return to position A .........................................   9-12

Swing left leg sideward and arms forward and lower wand and

leg to starting position .......................................13-14

Pause ..........................................................15-16

Exercise 2.

A—Lunge left forward and swing wand fore-upward—Fig. 3............. 1-4

B—Bend trunk forward, place left hand under right shoulder and

swing right arm forward (wand under right arm)—Fig. 4.......... 5-8

Return to position	A........................................ 9-12

Straighten and swing left leg forward and wand forward and

lower wand and leg	to	starting position ....................13-14

Pause ........................................................15-16

Digitized by CjOOQle
581

Fig. 5	Fig.	6

Digitized by ^ooQle
582 Exercise 3.

A—Stride left sideward and swing wand left side-upward, right

hand in front of left shoulder—Fig. 5 ................. 1-4

B—Bend left knee, bend trunk left, swing wand left side-downward and right side-upward (position of “A” on right side)—

Fig. 6	.............................................  5-8

Return	to	position	A ...............................  9-12

Swing left leg sideward and arms forward and lower wand and

leg to starting	position .............................13-14

Pause	.............................................15-16

T

M ,

—

' m

Fig. 7	Fig. 8

Exercise 4.

A—Layout left backward (trunk erect), swing arms fore-upward

and place wand in rear of shoulders—Fig. 7 .................... 1-4

B—Close left foot to right, bend knees half deep, and straighten

arms upward—Fig. 8 ..........................................

Return to position A ......................................... 9~12

Swing left leg backward, straighten arms upward and swing

fore-downward and	lower left leg to starting position.........I3~!4

Pause ........................................................15-16

SECOND GROUP Exercise 1.

A—Stride left obliquely foreward-outward and swing right arm obliquely back-downward, left hand in front of right shoulder

—Fig. 9	      l~4

B—Bend left knee, swing arms downward and left arm upward,

right hand in front of left shoulder (wand vertical)—Fig. 10 . .	5^

Return to position	A .......................... 9~12

Swing left leg and wand forward and lower wand and leg to

starting position ........................................... I3"1*

Pause ..........................................‘............

Digitized by

Google
583

Fig. 11	Fig.	12

Exercise 2.

A—Lunge left sideward and swing arms left obliquely side-upward, right hand in front of left shoulder—Fig. 11 .............

B—Change knee bending, bend trunk to right, swing arms upward and right obliquely side-downward (position of wand reversed)

—Fig. 12 ...................................................

Return to position A (through upward) ......................

Swing left leg sideward and wand forward and lower wand and

leg to starting position ...................................I

Pause ......................................................I

i“4

5-8

I-I2

l-H

:-i6

Digitized by Google .
584

Fig. 13	Fig.	14

Exercise 3.

A--Stride left backward and cross left arm over right (wand horizontal in front)—Fig. ij........................................ 1-4

B—Kneel left and bend upper trunk slightly backward and

straighten arms upward—Fig. 14.................................. 5-8

Return to position A .......................................... 9-13

Swing left leg backward, wand foreward, lower wand and leg

to starting position ..........................................13-14

Pause .........................................................15-18

Fig. 15	Fig.	16

Exercise 4.

A—Straddle left sideward and swing wand vertical in front, left hand high.—Fig. 15 ........................................

1-4

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
585

B—Quarter turn left on heels, bend left knee, lower trunk in line with leg and swing right arm obliquely fore-upward, left hand

under right shoulder—Fig. 16 .................................... J-8

Return to position	A	....................................... 9-12

Swing left leg sideward, wand forward, lower wand and leg to

starting position	.........................................13-14

Pause ..........................................................15-16

CORRECTIONS FOR MASS EXERCISES.

The following corrections for the Mass Exercises were received after the fore-going had been printed.

Exercises for Women, a—While marching to the field, the clubs are carried under the arms, knobs between the thumb and forefinger, knuckles out.

b—On the command, “clubs down” the clubs are lowered fore-downward.

c—The color of the clubs should be black, and the weight one pound each.

d—In the 2nd group, Exercise 3, Fig. 17, the position should be both arms left sideways. (Description correct.)

Exercises for Seniors, a—Nickel-plated iron wands to be used.

b—1st Group, Exercise 1, the position of arms is the reverse of the pose shown in the picture. (Description correct.)

c—2nd Group, Ex. 2, Fig. 12., correct description should read—turn head to the left.

RULES FOR CAPTAINBALL.

Organization.

The field or playing space shall be divided into two equal parts by a center line. Five round bases, each 2 inches in diameter, are marked or painted and placed and named according to the accompanying diagram. Team.

Ten players form a team. They are divided into Basemen:—Two Forward Basemen, two Corner Basemen, and one Captain Baseman, and Guards:—Two Forward Guards, two Corner Guards, and orte Captain Guard. For positions, see diagram.

Object.

The object of the game is to pass or throw the ball from baseman to baseman of the same side, the opposing guards trying to prevent this and pass the ball to their baseman on the opposite side of the center line.

A game is divided into two halves. The players change respective fields at the end of the first half.

Officials.

A referee and a timekeeper. The latter acts as scorer.

The following are the rules for an official game:

Digitized by Google


Field.

See Diagram.

-t

©T------

-I-

*,»«-------------------------Q

•i

2.	Bail.

The ball shall be a regulation basket ball.

J. Officials.

(a)	The referee has entire charge of the game. He decides what points are scored and who shall possess the ball in case of disagreement, calls fouls and awards penalties.

(b)	The timekeeper shall keep time and score.

4.	Length of Game.

(a)	Two halves of 15 minutes each, or less,

(b) In case of a tie score, one or more extra periods of five minutes or less, must be played through, until tie is broken at the end of one of these periods.

(c)	At the end of the first half and at the beginning of each extra period, teams change sides on the field.

(d)	Time shall be taken out only by order of the referee, for loss of ball, change of player, accident, etc.

Note—The length of the game at Chicago will be determined as soon as the number of teams is known.

5.	Putting the Ball in Play.

(a)	— (1) At the beginning of each half and of extra periods.

(2)	After each scoring play.

(3)	After each successful free throw,

(4)	After each double foul play, the referee tosses up the ball (at

least 10 feet) in the center between two opposing guards. As the ball is about to descend he blows his whistle. The ball is then in play.

(b)	At the beginning of each half and of extra period, the ball is tossed up between the opposing captain guards, after each scoring play, and after each double foul play, between opposing guards in the following order: Right forward, left forward, right corner, left corner and captain guards.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
687

6.	Playing the Ball.

(a)	When two opposing players get possession of the ball at the same time, the referee shall give the ball to the guard.

(b) If a captain baseman obtains possession of the ball from any player other than one of his basemen, he may start a scoring play. In this case no more than seven points may be made.

(c)	When during a free throw or through delay of game, play is started again, the referee shall not blow his whistle until all players in that half of the court are ready.

(d)	If the captain baseman, in a free throw (see n) does not get the ball to the baseman and the ball rebounds to captain baseman again, the free throw is over and a scoring play may begin. When a captain attempts a free throw and the ball touches a guard the free throw is over and a play may begin.

(e)	If the ball strikes some obstruction at the sides of the court, the ball'is given at that place to the guard who would otherwise have obtained it.

(f)	When a baseman except captain gets a ball from a baseman he has the privilege of continuing the scoring play by passing the ball to any other baseman who has not had possession of it during that scoring play.

(g)	If a guard throws a ball to a captain baseman no score is made. (See (d) of this section.)

7.	Scoring.

(a)	— (1) One point for passing of ball from baseman to baseman, both

basemen being on the same side of court, right or left.

(2)	Two points for passing of ball from baseman to captain.

(3) Two points for passing the ball across the court from a right baseman to a left baseman or from a left baseman to a right baseman. (See diagram.)

(4)	One point for passing of ball from captain to baseman on a free throw.

(b)	— (1) A scoring play starts when a baseman receives the ball, pro-

vided it has not touched a wall, fence, spectator or obstruction on the sides of the court of play.

A SCORING PLAY is STOPPED as follows:

(1)	When the ball passes into possession of any guard, or of an opposing baseman.

(2)	By a foul committed by a player on the team which is attempting to score. A baseman who fouls while receiving the ball scores no point. A baseman who fouls while throwing the ball scores no further point.

(3)	By the ball reaching captain baseman from another baseman of the same team.

(4) By the ball getting into the possession of any baseman for the second time during a scoring play. In this case the last pass of the ball does not score.

(j) By the ball striking anyone or anything at the sides of the court other than the player, ground, floor or ceiling, or obstruction within the court.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
588

(6)	A foul by a guard never stops the scoring play of the opponent. In such case a free throw is awarded after the scoring play is over.

8.	Fouls.

(a)	It is a foul for ANY PLAYER:—

(1)	Purposely to push, strike or trip an opponent.

(2)	Purposely to touch a player. It is impossible to play the game without opposing players touching. When such touching becomes dangerous or interferes with plays or appears to be done purposely, the referee shall warn, then foul the player or players for each successive offense.

(3)	Purposely to touch ball while n hands of opponent.

(4)	To kick the ball. Kicking is meeting the ball with the feet, with the idea of propelling it; Blocking with the feet is necessary and allowable.

(5)	To delay the game for the purpose of using up time. Delay for team work and signals must be brief.

(b)	It is a foul for GUARD:—

(1)	To touch a base with any part of his body.

(2)	To touch the ground or floor on the opposite side of the middle line, except that a guard on the jump at center toss, may drop with feet across the line.

(3)	Who has crossed the line, to touch the ball or interfere wifh play until he has returned to his side of the court.

(4)	To touch the ball while it is going up at center toss.

(5)	Jumping at center, to catch the ball or to touch the ball a second time unless it has struck another player or the ground or floor.

(6)	To carry ball more than one step or to roll or bounce it and take it again at an advanced point.

(7)	To guard a captain baseman while he is making a free throw.

(8)	When his opposing baseman has the ball, to guard closer than one foot to base, or to guard with arms extended nearer to the baseman, than at a right angle to a line from such guard to that baseman.

(9)	To straddle a base. All space above the base is property of the baseman, and may not be occupied by body or feet of the guard. While jumping to block high throws the hands the guard may be used above the base

(c)	It is a foul for a BASEMAN:—

(1)	Purposely to strike, trip or push an opponent.

(2)	To step out of base with both feet unless he jumps in air, in which case a foot must come down on base first.

(3)	When only one foot is on base, to lift that foot from the base.

9.	Interpretation.

(a)	GUARDS may:— «...

(1)	Take ball at any time it is not in possession of another player.

(2)	Drop on other side of middle line while jumping at center toss

(3)	Reach across the middle line at any time.

(4)	Guard any player at any time except captain baseman on free throw.

Digitized by

Google
689

(5)	Use a brief time for signals and team work.

(b)	BASEMEN may:—

(1)	Touch or rake ball while it is not in possession of the guard.

(2)	Use a brief time for signals or team work.

(3)	Jump in air for ball. (See 8 c-2.)

(4)	Change base foot at any time. (See 8 c-3.)

70.	Substitutes.

Substitution may take place only when the ball is not in play provided that no player who is taken out of the game may return to play during the half in which the removal occurs.

77. Penalty for Foul.

When a foul is made the referee gives the ball to the captain whose team did not foul. The captain guard on the fouling team is out of play and may not return to the play until the free throw has proven to be successful or has failed. When guards are ready the referee blows the whistle and the captain tries a free throw to base. No more than one point may be scored. The ball is tossed up in center if the throw has been successful. Otherwise play is continued.

12.	Ending of Game.

The blowing of the timekeeper’s whistle ends the game. If the ball is in the air at that time the game ends as soon as its passage through the air is stopped.

If the timekeeper’s whistle blows before a free throw has started, the free throw and any ensuing fouls must be played out.

Jj. Miscellaneous.

(a)	Representatives shall not coach teams during play.

(b)	A player may be removed from the game, after warning, for discourteous remarks to the referee.

MAL-NUTRITION.

CHAS. J. PROHASKA, M. D., SPALDING SCHOOL FOR CRIPPLED CHILDREN,

CHICAGO, ILL.

The subject of mal-nutrition has begun to receive much attention and every means possible is now being used to combat this great physical handicap which is said to claim no fewer than One out of every Three children in this country.

In later life, it is reported that One applicant out of every Fiie for the Students Army Training Corps was found physically unfit for military duty because of conditions due to mal-nutrition. And we are just recovering from the terrible shock received from reports of the large numbers of physically unfit rejected in the recent draft, many for the same reason.

The reasons why mal-nutrition heretofore has been so generally overlooked are various. In the first place no effective steps have been taken either by the medical profession or by the schools to examine children properly for this particular thing, and until the great war focused attention upon it, mal-nutrition was not generally known to be a serious condition.

Mal-nourished children may look well when they are dressed and

Digitized by v^.ooQle
590

thus escape detection. The school physician or medical inspector is usually allowed a superficial examination, and is^pf course unable to see thru several layers of clothing. Therefore the child is considered well and treated as such. If he falls behind in his studies, pressure at school and at home are increased. If he fails he is called lazy. Thus a vicious circle is established which only increases the degree of mal-nutrition, and . many of these unfortunate individuals are doomed later in life to become physical and nervous wrecks.

The first question which naturally arises is:—What is mal-nutrition? Is it an infectious disease like measles, chicken pox, etc? Unfortunately not, otherwise steps would long ago have been taken to control it. Neither is it a disease like rheumatism or gout which causes sufficient pain to demand attention and treatment. It is in fact, not a disease at all, but as Dr. Geo. Newman (Chief Medical Officer of Board of Ed., England) well expresses it:	“A	low	condition	of	health and body sustenance,

measurable not only in height, weight, robustness, but by many other signs and symptoms.**

Dr. Griffith, Prof of Pediatrics, U. of P., defines it as follows:	“By

the general and vague term mal-nutrition, we may cover all of the secondary atrophies and instances of failure to gain in weight, independent of whether the causes are organic or functional.** Dr. Holt, one of our leading Pediatricians, says:	“It	is	a	failure	to	gain	properly**.

What causes mal-nutrition is the next logical question to consider. The causes may be conveniently divided into 2 groups.

1.	The specific causes.

2.	The underlying causes of the specific ones.

Of the specific causes the question of diet seems to hold a place of most importance.

Insufficient or unsuitable food and drink is generally conceded to be the chief cause of mal-nutrition. The first requirement of a growing child is food. Every movement of his body requires energy and this energy must be furnished by the food he eats. If this food supply is insufficient (or inefficient) the body substance itself is burned to provide the required energy and a loss of weight results. So that quality as well as quantity must be regarded in a suitable diet.

To be well nourished, a child must have every day some body building material or protein to help his muscles, his blood, his heart, his lungs, his brain, and other essential organs. A liberal amount of the child’s building material should be furnished by * foods of animal origin, milk, eggs, meat. He requires minerals to supply lime salts to build sound bones and teeth, iron to help make red blood, Without these there results undernourishment, defective teeth, soft bones, anemia, and many other conditions that make toward mal-nutrition.

As a part of the question of diet, we must also consider habits of eating, regular hours for meals, in short, the rules of hygiene must be observed if we are to expect the best results from food.

Insufficient sleep is a causative factor in mal-nutrition ahd experiments have shown that children do not gain properly unless the hours of sleep are sufficient and regular.

The importance of rest, both mental and physical must be considered in the treatment of undernourishment.

Digitized by v^ooQle
591

In addition to too little sleep and fatigue, lack of fresh outdoor air, lack of proper exercise, undue nervous strain and excitement are contributing factors toward mal-nutrition.

Next to proper food and rest, physical defects and disease make up the balance of the so-called specific causes. Enlarged tonsils, adenoids, decayed teeth, tuberculosis and other diseases of a chronic and wasting nature.

Tonsils and adenoids may act in two ways:

1.	They may obstruct the free passage of air to the lungs thus limiting the oxidation of foods in the tissue, just as closing the draft to a stove keeps the fire from burning.

2.	These abnormal growths are apt to become diseased, when either

their toxins may circulate thru the body and prevent the building up of tissue or even destroy it; or secondary seats of focal infections may arise from germs from these diseased areas being carried by the blood to distant parts of the body. (For example:	endo-carditis, rheumatism).

And so, when these physical defects are present they become even more important than food or sleep in causing mal-nutrition. No matter how much wholesome food a child eats, if he has not enough oxygen to burn it, or if the body is being torn down as fast as it can be built up, there is little chance for him to hold his own, much less to gain.

If we go still farther back and inquire into the underlying causes of the specific ones we may ask:

Why are children insufficiently fed?

Why do they have too little sleep?

Why are bad tonsils and teeth not attended to?

The answer seems to be:

Poverty, ignorance, lack of parental control.

While poverty seems to be a great underlying cause in mal-nutrition, experience in nutrition clinics in some of our large cities has shown a surprisingly small percentage of mal-nutrition in which the essential cause is poverty, while a careful study of children in private schools and families of the rich shows an almost equal prevalence of mal-nutrition with the families of the poor.

This leads us to believe that the greatest of the underlying causes are ignorance and lack of parental control. Studies of home conditions show that parents are ignorant: of what are proper foods; of the necessity of regular unhurried meals; of the need of a good substantial breakfast; of the harmfulness of tea and coffee; and of the habit of eating candy and trash between meals.

Ignorance as well as poverty is to blame for much of the unhygienic living; and the same can be said of the lack of attention given to teeth and physical defects.

Even when poverty is not a factor, and ignorance does not exist or has been removed, there still remain many children who are undernourished merely for the lack of wise parental control. Even when they know better, a large number of parents allow their children to eat what and when they like, to live under continual stimulation and excitement, and to choose their own time for going to bed.

Why worry about mal-nourished children? Many of them manage to keep alive, pass thru school and grow up to their places in the world

Digitized by L^ooQle
692

as men and women. Does it make any difference then if they are undernourished now?

Again quoting the chief medical officer of England, who, after many years of observation of its effects, says: “Mal-nutrition is one of the gravest evils of the child's physique. The mal-nourished child becomes disabled, unemployable, incapable of resisting disease or withstanding its onset and process.

The listless, inactive, mal-nourished child who is constantly tired, who leans against the school house while his comrades play, is father to the man who is handicapped because of low vitality and a poorly developed body, and hence unable to do his full share of the world's work*

One of the most serious results of mal-nutrition is shown in increased susceptibility and lack of resistance to disease. The relation between mal-nutrition and tuberculosis needs special emphasis. Tuberculosis may be an active cause of mal-nutrition and we find that a mal-nourished body is the best soil for tuberculosis. It is a vicious circle.

There has been shown to be a close relation between mal-nutrition and the backwardness in school. Experiments in school feeding have shown that an improvement in the nutrition of a child is in practically all cases accompanied by a mental improvement. This is not difficult to understand, for a starved brain can not be expected to work any more than can a starved body. It is not surprising, therefore, to find considerable retardation in mal-nourished children.

We have a fair idea of what mal-nutrition is; its most prominent causes and effects; we are now ready to suggest the treatment.

The most sensible form of treatment is always to find the cause and after having found the cause to remove it. Before we, as physical educators, can hope to assist in treating mal-nutrition we must first of all be able to recognize the condition.

In handling children of all ages we have noticed the boy or the girl whose face is pale or anemic; whose lips are parted, giving evidence of mouth breathing; whose muscles are soft; who stands and sits in a stooped position; whose shoulders are round, chest sunken, scapulae protruding; who is restless, forgetful, inattentive. Any one or all of these conditions are indicative of mal-nutrition. And to strengthen our suspicion, if this child were weighed and measured it would no doubt fall below par.

If the object of our profession is to foster health, it seems to me we should learn to recognize these unhealthy individuals and at least assist in guiding them toward a health future. If physical education held its proper place in a school curriculum, and all teachers of physical education were capable of making proper physical examinations, it would be a great step forward to urge boards of education to demand a proper physical examination of each child from kindergarten thru high school. By a proper physical examination, I mean one in which the child's clothing is entirely removed in order that the accurate weight, and height may be determined, and the true conditions of his physique be revealed. This, augmented by an honest, not merely routine, medical inspection, would be the greatest step forward in combating mal-nutrition.

The object of the nutrition clinic is to identify this group of children and then on a basis of physical, mental, and social examinations, to make a diagnosis of the cause of mal-nutrition, thus leading to its proper treat-

Digitized by (^.ooQle
593

ment It is essential that these examinations be conducted by a physician with the aid of such assistance as he desires.

These classes or clinics are not necessarily confined to dispensaries or hospitals, but may be conducted in schools or any other place where children are brought together.

The school is the logical place for this health instruction. Here regularity of attendance can be easily secured; and the combined efforts of the medical service, physical education department, domestic science department and the general school activities can all be utilized to insure that all the children learn, and, during the school day at least, practice healthful hygienic living.

Chicago, I am proud to say, is as usual one of the first cities to lead in a health campaign of this nature in some of her schools. Dr. Sadie Adair, a most enthusiastic member of our board of education and a firm believer in good sound physical education has placed this work in a few schools and it will no doubt grow.

1.	In summarizing my statements I wish to say that I have tried to bring out convincing facts regarding mal-nutrition and leave you to decide the use of the clinic in combating this condition.

2.	I wish to lay great stress upon the importance of recognizing mal-nourished children.

3.	With proper and thorough physical examinations; with the aid of the various departments of schools; and most important with proper co-operation of parents, I dare say mal-nutrition will soon be a thing of the past.

4.	Clinics of every description are easily arranged for as a rule and they afford the most satisfactory means of determining the cause and outlining the proper treatment.

5.	In preparing this paper, I appreciate the assistance of Dr. Emerson’s splendid article; U. S. Government publications and of Dr. Adair and her assistants.

DEVELOPMENT OF HEALTH AND RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES IN A RURAL COMMUNITY.

C. JOSEPHINE DURKEE, NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH.

A practice utilized by certain organizations in the promotion of good community work which has met with increasing approval during the past decade has been that of supporting the development of local organizations already existing, and giving them assistance in the selection and education of leaders, as a basic concept of individual and community service. Bringing these different organizations together in conference for comparison of results of past work and the determination of policies for future work is a logical outcome of interest in a large number of varied organizations.

The development of the work of the Young Men’s Christian Association in Nassau and Suffolk Counties, Long Island has been along lines somewhat different from those generally adopted in the work of the Association, in that the Long Island organization creates as such no organized activity definitely its own, but seeks to work through groups

Digitized by t^ooQle
694

which have already demonstrated a civic consciousness, aiding these and other groups to develop constructive programs for individual service and community betterment. As need arises and leaders can be secured the best type of men available are employed by the Association to aid in the consummation of projected community work, but the measure of the success of the Association is believed to be written in the records of constructive growth and successful work of co-ordinated organizations rather than in the enlargement of a recognized Association program. The Long Island Association places emphasis upon the fact that its membership is in the five primary social groups, the home, the church, the school, industry, and the municipality, and that, since the arena of accomplishment must be these same five groups, the particular contribution in service which the Association should make is the strengthening and coordinating of the spirit of service and constructive effort in these five groups. To this end the Long Island Association has created a department of community organization which aims to keep informed regarding movements and activities of all groups and organizations in its territory, and to place this information at the service of those in the community who desire it, to the end that more effective work may be performed by all.

In the summer of 1916 the Association created a department of health and recreation and appointed Mr. B. D. Brink, Secretary. The function of that department and its secretary as outlined by Mr. Brink is as follows:

“Object to have folks want to take part in wholesome recreation and develop right habits of living.

Fjinction:

I—	Mass activities

1—Athletics and games

(a)	To facilitate the physical education program of state and local school officials and teachers of physical training.

(b)	Promote school athletic tests.

(c)	Demonstrate group athletic meets, contests, and games for schools, communities and industries.

a—Aquatics

(a)	To demonstrate the use of the new mass method in promoting swimming and to organize good swimmers for life saving.

(b)	To promote aquatic meets, carnivals and exhibitions.

II—	Co-operation with health and recreation agencies

(a)	To facilitate the work of the local, national and state agencies in promoting personal and community health and recreation.

(b)	To promote public health work.

(c)	To set up and supervise a health and recreation program for county fairs.

HI—Personal health

(a)	To promote health through personal interviews.

IV—Community recreation

(a)	To promote formal and informal impromptu dramatics.

(b)	To promote formal entertainments such as circuses, mock

Digitized by

Google
696

trials, plays, socials, entertainments, stunt nights and similar affairs.

(c)	To work with communities in setting up and supervising holiday and other recreational programs such as play festiv-als, pageants and community sings.

(d)	To assist the proper agencies in providing proper recreational facilities and programs in all communities.”

How well the Association has succeeded in carrying out this program is shown in a few practical recognitions of its service. In the summer of 1919, when projecting a campaign to raise a budget for the next three years work, Mr. Brink received a letter from Dr. Thomas A. Storey of the State Military Training Commission in which Dr. Storey said: “I hope you will succeed, especially in view of the help the association has been and I am sure will continue to be in the operation of the State program in physical training.

“There are three particular contributions that stand forth in my mind at this moment as having been made by your association in the work of the health education of school children in your two counties— First, in connection with the promotion of field and track meets, where your assistance has been invaluable in general planning and in securing competent officials; Second, in the operation of the requirement of three hours of recreation outside of school, where your association has made a distinct contribution to the play life of your school children and assisting to make available suitable recreational facilities to meet this requirement of the State program; Third, your co-operation with and assistance of local physical directors.” Supplementing and confirming this acknowledgment is the recent adoption by the State Department of Education of the physical ability tests which were worked out in the schools of Long Island. The Association’s Recreational Secretary says the ultimate success of the tests and their final adoption by the State is due in the largest possible measure to the openmindedness and co-operation of the two District School Superintendents, Dr. J. C. Cooley and Mr. W. C. Mepham. When the Welch-Slater law went into effect making physical training a compulsory part of the state education program these two superintendents were desirous that this training should become a vital thing which would make for development of character, and from the first they gave their full consideration to any recommendations which Mr. Brink had to offer regarding lines of development in health and recreation. At their request Mr. Brink modified the athletic test for boys worked out some years previously by Dr. John Brown and the one for girls worked out by The National Playground Association, making a combined physical ability test adaptable to both boys and girls. This was tried out in the county schools by six of the school directors of physical training, and jointly modified. The result of this co-operative endeavor has been the development of a test adapted for statewide use. Meanwhile this team work has brought into fellowship all the teachers of physical education on Long Island and a School Physical Directors’ Society for Nassau County has been formed. This society admits to active membership teachers of physical education in Nassau County schools, and to honorary membership any physical director or other person interested in health and recreation regardless of residence and affiliation.

Digitized by CjOOQle
In addition to the Nassau County organizations mentioned, many of which embrace both counties in their operations, there are several other groups functioning in Suffolk County which are exerting a constructive influence in the provision of recreational facilities. Among these should be included The Boy Scouts, The Girl Scouts, The Sunday School Association, The Grange, Suffolk County Farm Bureau, and The State Institute of Applied Agriculture. For the purpose of providing training for leadership in rural communities the last named of these institutions has recently established a Department of Rural Sociology and Physical Education.

In connection with these Long Island developments it is interesting to note that, second only to the provision of suitable food at suitable hours for the working personnel of industrial establishments, recreational facilities are the most popular provision for promoting efficiency. Quite recently the Director of the Division of Venereal Diseases of the State Department of Health has stated that the most important constructive measure in the prevention of venereal diseases in any community is adequate provision for easily available, normal, healthful recreation, under intelligent management, adapted to all classes and to all ages.

BATHING IN THE HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.

HENRY S. CURTIS, OBERL1N, OHIO.

In every way the opportunities for bathing in the Hawaiian Islands are unusual and in many ways the practices there are illuminating. The water about the shores is so. warm that bathing is appreciated every month of the year. The traditions of the Hawaiians are all in favor of swimming and nearly all the children learn to swim at an early age. Their endurance in the water is so unusual that when a boat was wrecked some twenty-five miles away from Honolulu a few years ago, a man and his wife started to swim in. They both swam in some twenty miles, when through some mishap the man was drowned and his wife swam in the balance of the way towing his body. Duke of Honolulu, still holds the world’s championship in speed swimming.

The Hawaiians have invented two different kinds of swimming sports, which until recently, have been unknown elsewhere—these are the surfboard, and the out-rigger, which is a hollowed log with another log lashed to it about fifteen feet out so as to make it more stable in the water. Both the surf-board and the out-rigger are run out to the beginning of the breakers, and then by catching the wave just right they come in to the shore at the speed of a race horse. The Hawaiians poise themselves upon these surf-boards with the skill of a bare-back rider at a circus, and feel perfectly at home upon them, either standing, sitting or lying flat.

A large number of the houses of American and English residents in the Islands are built with a bathroom for each bedroom, or at least with a sufficient number of bathrooms so that every member of the family and guests will have ample facilities. It is a general custom to take a cold shower or tub bath every morning. This is peculiarly helpful in a climate which is lacking in the stimulus which comes from the cold. A large number of the private houses have swimming pools also in their back

Digitized by
597

yards for the use of the family and guests. Swimming parties at these private pools are common social events. Many Americans who do not have private pools have the habit of a daily swim in the ocean.

One of the most interesting institutions in the Islands are the Japanese baths. There are 102,000 Japanese in the Islands, constituting more than one-third of the population. They live largely in rural villages upon the sugar plantations, although there are also many in the larger cities. The Japanese take a hot bath every day, and there is a good sized public bath house in all these villages, except where there are private baths attached to the houses, which is unusual. These public baths are in two parts, one part for the men and one for the women, although oftentimes, the partition separating the two parts is only the length of the bath tub, leaving the balance of the partition open. In some cases, there are doors, although these are seldom closed. The bath tubs are about five by eight feet in size and furnished with hot water. In these tubs from one to two hundred men and women bathe every afternoon without a change of water. The astonishing thing about it is that, with the warm water and the prevalence of skin diseases, these baths where the same water is used by a hundred or more people every afternoon, do not become centers of contagion.

APRIL SUGGESTIONS TO TEACHERS.

BY GERTRUDE LEFLER BRAMAN, QUEENS TILLAGE, NEW YORK.

FIRST GRADE.

Daily morning inspection, etc.

Action Song

The Song of the Rain - Walker & Jenks - from Songs & Games .for Little Ones.

Breathing.

SECOND PERIOD.

Gymnastic Story.

Circus

1-	Climb up to seats

2-	Imitate movements from Grand March — Dancing horses — animals - clowns

3-	Trapeze artists - pretend to climb ropes and swing - jump into net.

4-	Trick ponies

5-	Chariot Race

6-	Band - each row plays different instruments

7-	Dog Show - jumping, etc.

8-	Run home

9-	Breathe in fresh air

THIRD PERIOD.

Games

Those of March or chosen by children. Games are to be used as long as interest is manifested, — a few games thoroughly understood and vigorously played until they “play themselves” so they may be used at times when the teacher is not there to direct. Courtesy should be developed and the things of the child’s world brought out and the season’s

Digitized by (^.ooQle
598

changes followed. “Appetite and desire are the great factors in assimilation and growth.” If there be spontaneity and joy the circulation, respiration and digestion will follow naturally.

Rhythmic Work - Shoemaker Dance.

FOURTH PERIOD.

Imaginative Plays

Raindrops - carrying umbrellas - jumping puddles - picking weeds, throwing ball - bouncing ball - butterfly - bird movements - pushing swing - spinning tops - etc.

Marching Song

One by One (Stecher’s Games and Dances.)

March in circle; use short steps

Long steps, march on tiptoes, skip; ordinary march

Breathing

MIMETIC EXERCISES.

High stepping horses; paw twice with each foot to waltz time.

STORY GYMNASTICS.

Review Circus (from Grade I.)

GAMES.

Have you se$n my Sheep?

Squat Tag

Fox and Squirrel

Blind Man’s Buff

INFORMAL DRAMATIC STORIES.

Jacob and Rachel Teacher and Class Simon Says

FOLK DANCE.

The Cuckoo is Calling.— Hofer.

RHYTHMS.

Tick, Tock (from Margaret Martin’s Melody Pictures.)

Boat Song (Martin)

Church Bell (Martin)

Review clapping, hopping, skipping, running, “step, heel step” gallop to music.

HYGIENE.

Hair - cause of dandruff Use of “Hankie”

Neat appearance Appeal to pride Care of eyes

and

MIDDLE WEST G YMNASTIC SOCIETIES IN COMPETITION

The eleventh annual contest of the Northwestern Gymnastic Society, held at the University of Minnesota March 19, was won by the Turn-verein St. Paul with a mark of 96.11. The Knights of Columbus were a close second with 96.02 points; St. Olaf College stood third, University of Minnesota, fourth, and University of Wisconsin, fifth.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
599

Four een teams from Minnesota, Wisconsin and Iowa, numbering 170 conpetitors, took part in the competition on the horizontal bar, parallel bars, side horse, flying rings, in tumbling and in club swinging.

The individual all-around championship was won by Ernest F. Carlson of the University of Minnesota; Joseph Zikan, Sokol Society, stood second, and Elmer Mangney, Minnesota, third. Carlson took first place on the horizontal bar, parallel bars and rings, John Curtin of Wisconsin won the side horse event, Lawrence Carlson of Minnesota captured the tumbling honors, and WTalter Porth of Wisconsin won the club swinging.

The Class B championship went to A. Grossman of the Turnverein St. Paul, while his teammates, W. Perlt and H. Perlt, took second and third places.

In Class C, the novice division, Fritz Strand, St. Olaf College, won the highest honors; Perry Olson, South High School, Minneapolis, was second; H. Simerson, St. Olaf, stood third.

In addition to the plaques, cups and medals awarded to teams and individuals, over 100 certificates of the society were granted to competitors for excellent work.

A feature of the program was the display of Bohemian national dances by men and women of the St. Paul Sokol Society in their native costumes.

An audience of approximately five hundred witnessed the exhibition showing the growth in interest in these gymnastic events of the Middle West. The teams which took part represented the following schools or clubs:

St. Anthony Turnverein, Minneapolis Sokol Society, New Prague, Minn.

Citizens Club, Minneapolis South High School, Minneapolis Knights of Columbus, St. Paul Luther College, Decorah, Iowa Stout Institute, Menomonie, Wis.

Turnverein, New Ulm, Minn.

St. Olaf College, Northfield, Minn.

St. Paul Playgrounds Sokol Society, St. Paul University of Minnesota University of Wisconsin The officials of the meet were:

Dr. L. J. Cooke,Director,

C. B. Roemer, Assistant Director,

H. N. Watson, Technical Director,

F.	Uebel, Supervisor of Clerks,

A.	Strimling, Chairman Computing Committee,

Clarence Groettum, Cashier,

T.	N. Northrup, Inspector,

A.	F. Schintz, Inspector,

E.	O. Williams, Inspector,

C. C. Aller, Inspector,

F.	Drassal, Demonstrator of Set Exercises.

Digitized by LjOOQle
600

EIGHT ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF THE MIDDLE WEST SOCIETY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, CLEVELAND, O.

April 21,22, 23, 1921.

Headquarters—Hotel Statler, Euclid Avenue.

PROGRAM.

Thursday, April 21.

Registration at Headquarters.

Delegates may visit under guide any of the following places:

Cleveland Public Schools, Public Schools of the suburbs: Lakewood, East Cleveland, Cleveland Heights, Shaker Heights, Rocky River and others; Rural Schools; Private Schools. Cleveland Normal Training School. College for Women, Adelbert College, Case School of Applied Science. Parks and Playgrounds, Settlements. Y. M. C. A., Y. W. C. A. Cleveland Athletic Club.

The following varieties of work may be seen on the visiting days:

Military and Physical Training for Senior High Schools.

All types of games, dances and free exercises for Junior High and Elementary Schools.

Group Contests for Girls.

Health Education for Elementary and High Schools.

Medical Inspection for Dispensaries, Dental Clinics, Open Air Schools and Public Schools.

Special Schools for Orthopedic and Follow-up Work.

School for Crippled Children and School for Deaf.

Playgrounds—Demonstration Recreation Center;

Regular After School Playground Work from 3:30 to 10:00; Cleveland Health Center Y. W. C. A.

Thursday Evening 8:00.

Recreation evening.

This evening will be under the direction of Miss Edna Geister of Chicago. Her book, “The Ice Breakers,” is known to us. Miss Verna Brooks may assist her in the Folk Dancing.

Miss Geister	has much of practical value to give. She shows in	her

methods	how to	handle large groups	of people successfully so that	all

of them	have a	good time. That is	the problem which confronts	the

physical	director	so many times and	this will give our members much

new rilaterial to carry home.

Miss Geister does not like to have an audience, so bring your gymnasium shoes or sneakers and take part.

Friday Morning 8:30—9:30.

English Country, Sword and Morris Dancing. This work will be offered free to all members. Mr. Charles Rabold of New York has been secured to give three or more lessons. These lessons will be especially valuable for the men, as Mr. Rabold has some work adapted to boys’ abilities. Bring your gymnasium shoes. Learn some dances which you can teach to all of your community from the kindergarten to the oldest of your dancers.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
601

9:3°—I2:°o.

General Session.

Speakers—Dr. Thos. D. Wood.

Dr. Dudley A. Sargent.

Mies Harriett Wild.

Demonstration of the Folk Dancing of various nationalities of Cleveland.

12:00

Sectional and School Alumni Luncheons.

I too—2:00

Swimming demonstration, showing teaching methods. Miss Nita Sheffield, Teachers College, New York, N. Y., has consented to come to give our members the methods she has worked out in her book, “Swimming Simplified.”

We want to have our members get direct instruction from Miss Sheffield. Restrictions have been raised from the tanks for convention and the delegates may be able to swim.

2:15—5:00

Sectional Meetings.

Not all of the programs have been submitted to the president, but many interesting meetings have been suggested. The chairmen of the various sections are making plans to have a practical demonstration along with their address.

Miss H*Doubler, with the interesting dancing she is doing, will demonstrate her work with a group of students, if possible.

The “stunts” popularly used to supplement gymnasium work, will be shown.

Miss Sheffield is to give her land drills to all those interested in learning them.

Dr. Thos. D. Wood of Teachers College will bring his health posters and charts to supplement his address.

Miss Bertha Swope of East Cleveland will give three story plays and some dramatic games and song plays. She will have three groups and three ages of children to show her work.

It is to be hoped that Miss Booth of the Russell Sage Foundation of New York may come and bring her “Health House.”

Dr. Ebersole, President of the Dental Hygiene Association of America, will talk on the care of the teeth.

The above represents approximately one-sixth of the complete program. Do not miss hearing and seeing it all.

5:00—6:00

Swimming instruction by Miss Nita Sheffield.

English dancing by Mr. Rabold and his assistants.

6:30

Banquet for all members. Headquarters.

Speakers at the banquet:	#

Toastmaster—Dr. Reed of Chicago, 111.

Dr. Sargent of Cambridge, Mass.

Miss Nina B. Lamkin of Grand Rapids, Michigan.

Mr. Henry Turner Bailey of Cleveland, Ohio.

Digitized by (^ooQle
602

8:30—i2:oo

Special dancing for members of the association and their friends. Saturday Morning 9:00—10:30.

Demonstration of English dancing and song plays. This will be given by hundreds of children from all parts of Cleveland and the suburbs; Mr. Rabold and his assistants will give several numbers on this program. Representative groups from all ages ahd grades will participate.

10:30

General Session.

Dr. McCurdy will have his book display on the mezzanine floor of Hotel Statler.

The work which is being done in the schools in health education will be on display.

11:30—12:00

The annual business meeting with the election of the new officers and the plans for the convention for next year will be held.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE MIDDLE WEST SOCIETY.

President, C. W. Savage, Representative at large Oberlin College, Oberlin, Ohio.

Vice President, Joesph S. Wright, Private Schools, Frances W. Parker School, Chicago, 111.

Sec’y.-Treas. Miss Louise Kent Hale, Public Schools, Cleveland Heights Schools, Cleveland, Ohio.

A.	A. Stagg, Men’s College, University of Chicago, Chicago, 111.

Miss Mary A. Brownell, Women’s Colleges, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wise.

Miss Lydia Clark, Normal Schools, Normal University, Normal, I1L H. G. Reynolds, Playgrounds, South Park Playgrounds, Chicago, 111. Miss Florence Lawson, Y. W. C. A., 39 East Monroe Street, Chicago. Dr. R. A. Allen, Y. M. C. A., Central Y. M. C. A., Chicago, 111.

Miss Ethel Perrin, Representative at large, Detroit Public Schools, Detroit, Mich.

HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS.

STATLER—Rooms with shower >3, >3.50, $4, single; $4, $4.50, $5, double. Rooms with both tub bath and shower, $4 to $6, single; $6 to >8, double. Twin beds and shower bath >5:30; twin beds, tub, shower bath, $7 to $8.

HOLLENDEN—For one person >3 to $6; for two persons $3 to $J. Twin beds $6 to $8; Suites at various prices.

CLEVELAND—Rates, single >3 to $7. Rates double $5 to $10. Twin bed rooms $7 to $10. Parlor bedroom and batji $12 up.

OLMSTEAD—Rates >2.50 up single; $4 double. Every room has outside exposure and each is equipped with private bath and circulating distilled ice-water.

WINTON—Rates: Room with private bath, single $3 to $5. Room with private bath double, $5 50 >8. Room with private bath, twin beds,

$6 to {10. P. B. and B. $11 up!

MECCA—Rates, single {1.50 to >2.50.

The Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. may be able to accommodate some delegates.

Digitized by
603

II	■■	   ■	■	-HI.

j^OTES AND COMMENT^

I |i...........ir	r	■	i	■„	-..«i	'

TENTATIVE PROGRAM

32nd NATIONAL FESTIVAL, AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION.

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 29.

2:00 P. M. Meeting of judges.

4:00 P. M. Interpretive Volleyball and Captainball Games.

8 :oo P. M. Reception and Exhibition.

THURSDAY, JUNE 30.

7:30 A. M. Tactics and free exercises by societies (in four groups). -9:30 A. M. Captainball games by women’s teams.

1 :oo P. M. Volleyball games by men (actives.)

Tug of War by senior men.

Wrestling; foil fencing.

2:00 P. M. Mental competition.

8:00 P.M. Model exercises.

FRIDAY, JULY I.

7:30 A. M. Decathlon (Apparatus work) by men (actives.)

Continuation of wrestling and fencing.

9:00 A. M. Octathlon (athletics) by women.

1:00 P. M. Tug of War by men.

Volleyball by seniors.

Octathlon (apparatus and dancing) by women.

3:00 P. M. Special Athletics; 220 yards run and 120 yards low* hurdler. -8:00 P.M. Model exercises.

SATURDAY, JULY 2.

7:30 A. M. Decathlon (athletics) by men (actives.)

9:00 A. M. Special athletics for women; 50 and 100 yards swim, divingj (If possible, also for men.)

1:30 P. M. Relay races for men (actives.)

2:30 P. M. Model exercises.

3:30 P. M. Mass exercises for seniors, women, men.

8:00 P.M. Model exercises.

SUNDAY, JULY 3.

Morning: Any unfinished competitions.

Afternoon:	Distribution of Honors.

Reorganization along American lines of the educational system of. Peru is to be undertaken under the supervision of 30 American educators engaged recently to work under the direction of the Peruvian Minister of Education. The wprk is in charge of Harry I. Bard. The country has been divided into three districts, to each of which a regional director of education will be assigned. Other members of the stafT will act as supervisors for the entire country of certain specialized features of school work. These supervisors will seek to introduce American methods of instruction in academic studies and in physical education.

Digitized by CjOOQle
604

BOOK REVIEWS.

“woman and the new race” by Margaret Sanger. 234 pages, 5 1-2 by 7 1-2 inches. Published by Brentano, New York City. $2.00.

As a rule newspapers when they comment on the lectures delivered by Mrs. Sanger emphasize something she said by separating it from its context. And so with this book it would be able to quote passages and thereby give a totally wrong impression of it. The book is an eminently sane presentation of many of the sex problems confronting women. If any one needs enlightenment on the question of birth control or on any of the problems arising from an excessive number of children, Mrs. Sanger’s book can safely be recommended.

“the social diseases” by Dr. J. Hericourt, 246 pages, 5 1-2 by 7 1-2 inches. Published by E. P. Duttson & Co., New York City. $2.50.

The author is an eminent French physician. His book was translated by Bernard Miall, an Englishman, who also wrote a final chapter applying the French findings and deductions to English conditions. Dr. Hericourt investigated the four social diseases “Tuberculosis, Syphilis, Alcoholism and Sterility” in France and shows how these jeopardize the future of society. He worked from the standpoint that before you can get society as a whole to demand a reform you must lay the facts before the public. This he does in a most thorough and scientific manner, and shows how these four diseases are responsible for the greater part of the moral suffering to which man is subject. The book is recommended to all who are looking for facts and for sane advice as to how to proceed to make this world a better place to live in.

“sex problems” by William Lee Howard, M. D. Published by Edward J. Clode, 156 Fifth Ave., New York. Five books. Price for each book $1.25. Price for the five books $6.25. The titles of the separate books and their chapters are as follows:

PLAIN FACTS ON SEX HYGIENE.

(12th Edition)

Chap.

I.	Conditions that Menace Homes and Children.

II.	What Are These Diseases.

III.	How the Disease is Contracted by the Innocent.

IV.	Syphilis: Its Contagiousness; Its Danger to You.

V.	Hereditary Syphilis.

VI.	The Ghosts of Syphilis; Mental and Nervous Troubles Appearing Late in Life.

VII.	Syphilis in Relation to Marriage.

VIII.	The Mental and Practical Value of Continence.

FACTS FOR THE MARRIED.

(10th Edition)

Chap.

I.	The Physically Fit Man. Why Long Engagements are Injurious.

II.	Neglected Wives.

III.	Injurious Marital Habits.

IV.	The Woman Who Holds Her Husband and How.

Digitized by
605

V.	Limiting the Number of Children Sometimes Necessary.

VI.	What Man and Wife Can Do to Have Healthy Children.

VII.	Prenatal Influences.

VIII.	The Morality of the Child.

IX.	Who Are Unfit to Marry. Occupation, Disease and Marriage.-

X.	Why Girls and Boys go Wrong.

CONFIDENTAL CHATS WITH BOYS.

(5th Edition)

Chap.

I.	The Body as a Machine.

II.	The Outside Lungs, the Skin.

III.	How all Life Commences.

IV.	Care of Self During Puberty.

V.	Night Emissions and the Boys’ Worry.

VI.	Self-abuse: How to Stop It. The Quacks.

VII.	Your Vocation and How to Fit Yourself for It.

VIII.	Environment and Diseases which Rust Braintools.

CONFIDENTIAL CHATS WITH GIRLS.

(3rd Edition)

Chap.

I.	How to Develop into Womanhood.

II.	A General Chat for Girls Who Would Become Womanly Women-

III.	The Disorders of Menstruation and General Health.

IV.	Care of the Skin, the Complexion and the Hair.

V.	Nerves and the Nervous Girl.

VI.	How to Get Will Power.

VII.	How to Keep Attractive.

VIII.	Some Dont’s.

SEX PROBLEMS SOLVED.

(3rd Edition)

Chap.

I.	Worry and the Primitive Forces of Nature.

II. Is Chasity Consistent with Health?

III.	The Worry over the Fear of Becoming Impotent.

IV.	The Sexual Problem of the Neurasthenic.

V.	Why You Worry over Unknown Fears.

VI.	Internal Sex Forces.

VII.	How Emotions — Fear, Anger, Love, Jealousy — Cause Injury to Bodily Health.

VIII.	Character and Sexuality.

There is a steady demand for books on this puzzling problem of sex. Many of the books recently published are too technical to be of service to the average layman. Dr. Howard has avoided this error. He speaks in everyday English that can be understood by anyone. As will be seen by a glance at the chapters of each book the whole set should be a valuable addition to the library of any teacher.

Digitized by <^.ooQle


The

Recog n i z e d Textbook on Playground Planning---



This 128-Page Medart Catalog is recognized everywhere as a textbook on Playground Planning and Installations. It shows in detail just what apparatus is best suited for boys, for girls and for smaller children. It shows ideal playground layouts, where cost is secondary to service and it shows, too, what combinations are most desirable for smaller communities or centers where only a limited appropriation is available.

And, of course, it points out convincingly just why you should always specify Medart Playground Equipment.

Add this elaborate book to your library—it is an actual help to anyone interested in Playgrounds and Playground Planning. Sent promptly on request.

FRED MEDART MFG. CO.

Potomac & De Kalb	St.	Louia,	Mo.

New York 52 Vanderbilt Ave.

San Francisco Rialto Bldg.

Digitized by

Google