r

MIND

Vol. 39

AND BODY

NOVEMBER 1932	No.	407

Sport Physician

Carl L. Schrader, Supervisor of Physical Education, Dept, of Education,

State of Mass.

It must be generally admitted that the function of the sport physician on the field of play is primarily one of patching up the fellow after injury, so that he may go on with the game then being played, or at least with the next one to be played. Insofar as momentary discomfort and pain is involved, to be sure there is no need for removal of a player from the field, but when joints are actually injured, accompanying ligamentous complications are natural, and mere bandaging will not enable a player to go on with a strenuous game. Neither baking, nor other modem treatments which cover only a few days, will make him fit for the next game—that is, without risks for which no physician should want to be responsible. A similar injury to the same fellow, if occurring in the ordinary hazards of life, would be treated with the utmost care, and he would be warned of the danger of undue use of the injured part.

Alarmed as we may well be over the forty-seven deaths in football this past season, there is at least some comfort in the fact that there are so many more boys playing than ever before, due to the mass or intramural programs now in vogue. Even more significant than these immediate deaths are the many injuries which result from the prolonged fatigue to which the boys are exposed and often driven. I am concerned chiefly with the high school lad who is still growing, and who needs much of his energy for this growth. He is quite different from the more matured college man, and therefore needs greater and more intelligent protection. Doctor Shailer U. Lawton’s contribution on the relationship of infection to activity and fatigue, to which we have just listened, throws light on the importance of close observation of and guidance over those who engage in strenuous play activities. Doctor Allen Ireland’s paper is a challenge more to the medical profession than to the directors of athletics in colleges and secondary schools.

There is need for a specially trained group of physicians, who because of their special training, would be intimately familiar with the types of injuries common among athletes, and who would also be familiar with the symptoms of the players’ conditions. Recognition of these symptoms, and proper treatment,

Digitized by kjOOQle
146

would forestall subsequent serious results. Such a physician should be responsible to, and financed by the institution,—not an athletic association. He alone should be the one to determine the fitness of a player, before and during a game. There is sufficient evidence that the regular practicing physician is not qualified to render the service. Here is a challenge to the medical schools, who owe this service to our youth.

The growth in participation in athletics is America’s youth movement, and if the movement is constructively to serve our youth, and the country at large, it needs the protection that only the medical profession can give. Neither the coach, the trainer, nor the director of physical education has the right to assume the responsibility for the physical safety of the player. Admitted that trainers of long experience have learned from observation many things that may protect the boys, their safety is too vital to be entrusted merely to the results of observation. We have science at our disposal, and there is much valuable information available for us. The coaches have been on the defensive long enough; it is time now for them to go on the offensive, and refuse to take the responsibility which belongs to the medical profession.

However, there are some safety reforms in which the coaches should take the initiative, and the matter of schedules is one of these. Schedules, particularly in high schools, are too long. Five or six interscholastic games of football are enough, and one interscholastic game of basketball a week, preferably played in the afternoon is also enough. The coach, too, should be the one to see to it that the schedule is free from games which are sure to be void of all competition—'those in which a “David” meets a “Goliath”. A small school which, simply to gain a share in the gate receipts, permits its few boys to be a battering ram for a large school which can send four or more complete teams onto the field, should close its doors as an educational institution.

In some countries abroad, particularly in Austria, Switzerland and Germany, there are specialists such as I have referred to, who are known as “sport arzt”. They represent a branch in medicine, just as do the nose and throat specialists, and others, and they enjoy the same esteem. The youth movement in Germany attracted such large numbers to athletics that, in order to avoid consequential detriments, this protection was set up. As an outgrowth of this service, effort is now being made to have legislation which will compel the employing of these physicians in institutions which administer and promote athletics. There are stations set up where adults are examined, and then advised as to what sport will be safest for them to pursue. In Cologne in 1929 these specialists held their fifth conference, and there were some nine hundred in attendance. The discussions dealt entirely with the prevention and care of injuries. The service of these physicians, while primarily for the protection of the boy and the girl, is also necessary for the preservation of wholesome sport.

Our boys and girls will participate in sports, and while we

Digitized by ^ ooqLc
147

want to make the games safe for them, we have the additional and more important responsibility of making them safe for the sports. The outcome of any game is of little consequence, compared with the safety of the players in it. May the medical profession see the need for this important service, and offer in its medical schools courses to prepare for it.

Physical Examinations for Women and

Girls

A Preliminary report by a committee of the A. P. E. A.

The purpose of the examination should be recognized before any recommendations can be made as to its contents. In 1896 Dr. Hitchcock said, “The ultimate and philosophical aim of anthropometry is to ascertain the ideal or typical man and this must be the result obtained before we can do our best work***. We want to be able to tell normally developed people what deficiencies they have.........,and	how their best development can

be brought about.” Later he said, “Now that we have these

data we may be able to..........tell him what he may expect to

measure, weigh, blow, lift, push or do if he be an average college student and wants the ‘mens sana in corpore sano’ ”. [6- p.42]

In 1930, Bovard and Cozens say, “While in general our records made with tape measure have long since given way to medical examinations, we must also recognize the values of some physical measurements [6-0.50]. They suggest the measurements of value in a physical examination are height and weight [when interpreted by suitable tables], lung capacity, photographs or silhouettes plus other measurements useful in research but not yet showing sufficiently high correlations with definite conditions to be valuable in routine examinations.

In “Physical Education Activities for High School Girls” by the staff of the Department of Physical Education for Women at the University of Michigan [7], the medical and physical examinations and the daily inspections so overlap there was no attempt made to make a differentiation.

Lippitt [8-p.24] differentiates between the medical examination given by the physician and the orthopedic examination which can be given by the teacher of physical education. She believes, that to be useful and not too tiring to the student, the examination “should be as brief and as practical as possible”. She says the “measurements are. . . .for the most part, a waste of time, both for the student and the instructor”. The measurements she advises taking are height, weight, lung capacity, inspection for bad orthopedic conditions of spine and feet plus a history of previous physical work and a physician’s report.

Williams [ll-p.253] says, "The day for anthropometry in

Digitized by kjOOQle
148

physical education is past...........The emphasis will be upon

dynamic and functional tests."

Morrison and Chenoweth [5] include in their examination for physical education teachers all the procedures common to physicians—inspection, palpation, percussion, auscultation, mensuration, and laboratory findings.

In the second symposium of New York University [9], the nature and scope of the Health Examination which the physical educator can make seems to include the examination for evidence of disturbances of glandular secretions, metabolism, mental and neurological disturbances, circulatory and lung conditions, common skin diseases, eye, ear, nose and throat and dental conditions, and G-U conditions. Although we are thoroughly in sympathy with their general tenets, we do not believe it is wise or feasible for any except experienced teachers who have studied beyond their preservice education to undertake the responsibility for such an examination. The committee understands that it was commissioned to make recommendations for the minimum examination that every teacher of physical education should be expected to make even in her first year of teaching.

We believe that every effort should be made to urge trained individual teachers to broaden their examinations as opportunity-offers and to keep accurate and carefully chosen data which can be published and studied by others. In the pre-service training course there should be interest and stimulus supplied and training given which will enable the student teachers to study further and to some extent, independently. Especially do we believe further experimentation or verification should be made along the line of tests. There has not been .complete unanimity among the members of the committee and this'ls perhaps to be traced to a difference in their training. This difference between incoming young teachers will always exist and perhaps is an advantage to the profession rather than a disadvantage. 'V

The Committee for Physical Examinations for Women are of the opinion that the following points should guldf- the examiner in giving physical examinations.	\

At any age level only those items should be contained in a physical examination which fulfill any one or more of the following purposes:	\

1.	To further or create interest in the student in her own 'physical

welfare.	\

2.	To provide positive information as to the present status hf the individual in such measurements and conditions as cafe be largely controlled by exercise and hygienic rules of living-These measurements and observations should include thdse which are subject to change with changes in strength, health, and condition, and which are to be followed up with instruction and subsequent examinations.

3.	To classify students with regard to strength, endurance, and remedial defects to the end that they may be safeguarded or referred to the proper sources for help.

Digitized by kjOOQle

\
149

4.	To provide more data and information needed for research and study.

We further believe that the minimum examination should consist only of those items which are expected of every physical education teacher regardless of whether or not a physician is available. It is obviously impossible for school boards to require undergraduate or pre-service training which will enable every teacher of physical education to give a complete and thorough examination to the point of making competent judgments and reporting findings on such items as are of medical significance, and at the same time have the school boards willing to accept as teachers of physical education any man or woman who can do a stunt or two. Many teachers are accepted as teachers of physical education for no reason other than their own skill ‘in a sport.

The teacher of physical education is primarily an educator, not an examiner. It is her responsibility to use every opportunity that presents itself in her work as an educative opportunity. This is especially true in the physical examination. The line between the physical and the medical examination can never be a clear cut one but the characteristics common to all the items on the physical examination should be the possibility of its use for an educational opportunity with that particular student.

Under the older order of things the physical examination consisted of from 50 to, 100 separate measurements. Ninety-seven linear measurements are listed by Wilder [p.158—Li t of Usual Measurements] plus some general measurements as lung capacity, weight, etc.

61 measurements were adopted officially by the A. P. E. A. in 1885—[2-p.48].

55 measurements appear on the Oberlin Charts.

33 to 50 measurements are recommended by Hastings [3-p. 13 & p.58],

24 are suggested as “the ordinary anthropometric examination” by Wayman [10].

These measurements have furnished valuable data for many a student or young reporter working on a thesis or news story. Where the examination figures were plotted in graphic form, they also served as evidence of change • interesting to the examinee. Many a girl, however, has been more pleased to carry home a chart that showed a graph somewhere near the straight line of the average than she would be if she understood a little more clearly what determined the average.

The committee is recommending a total of three accurate measurements viz, weight, height standing, and lung capacity, supplemented by 32 observations of judgment. Many of the measurements and items commonly found on the examination blanks they have omitted. These include visual and auditory acuity, examination of nose, teeth, tonsils, throat, examination of thyroid, blood pressure, [heart rate before and after exercise] lung conditions, abdominal and pelvic conditions, etc. The

Digitized by LjOOQle
150

unanimous feeling of the committee was that it was very doubtful if they were, any of them, the function of the average teacher of physical education and if they were not, they certainly did not belong in the minimum examination. We believed, too, that the cooperation of the local physicians is more easily gained if there is a fairly clear line of separation between their two fields. We believe that the responsibility for the examination which will disclose pathology must be placed upon specially trained workers in the field or upon physicians and that the physical education profession should hasten any recognition of this by school boards, etc. The examination which the physical educator makes should be confined to those measurements which are used as a basis for hygienic instruction, and should not include those items which are aimed to discover organic lesions especially those organic lesions which would be used as a basis for classification of students, including lung and heart conditions, abdominal conditions, etc.

The committee feels that it is justified in recommending only such items as will be followed up by instruction and subsequent examination. It is usually not possible to take the time to give a thorough discussion at the time of the examination, and even if it were, the student is usually not in a receptive mood at that time. It can be done better in small doses, with an immediate opportunity for application .of the remedial measures suggested, it can be done better if an opportunity is given first to put the student in the position of feeling the need of, or wanting the information which will enable him to better his present condition.

From this point of view it is important to give measurements which can be followed up within the amount of time allotted to the subject of physical education. A feasible procedure of follow up which is carried on in one college is as follows: Before the examination, the students are met in small groups while the general plan of the examination is explained, directions are given, and they are told that at a later date they will have an opportunity to study the results of the examination. After the examinations are all over and the students have been assigned to class hours, each class is divided into three squads. Two squads are given the usual freshman gymnasium work as organized in that college while the third squad meets in a smaller room for one third of a semester. In this section the girls are'handed copies of the findings of their examination and the significance of these are pointed out in small groups. Various corrective measures and exercises are discussed and put into practice. A part of every hour is spent in exercise with incidental discussion with more formal talks. Examination is made wherever indicated. Posture pictures are taken again. Mimeographed directions for exercises and hygienic measures to be carried out for various conditions are distributed to the girls and those measures which apply in any individual case are starred and individual directions given.

Digitized by AjOOQle
151

The conditions for which special work is given include heart and nerve conditions as determined by a physician and postural, foot, nutritional, and menstrual conditions as determined by a teacher of physical education. These include all the conditions suggested for corrective work by Neilson and Van Hagen [4-p.42]. We are well aware of the difference of opinion as held by some concerning the function of the physical education teacher as an examiner.

The recommended items are those that seemed to be universally listed as desirable, both by members of the committee and by a considerable number of others in the profession. Perhaps the most important of all the criteria by which they are judged is that which refers to the measurements or observations as those which are to be followed up with instruction and reexamination. Only where this is done is the examination truly a part of an educational procedure.

There are an increasing number of tests which seem to offer much of value in the determination of endurance and physical fitness of the individual. These have not yet been fully validated. Some, however, seem to be sufficiently standardized to warrant'their inclusion in any monograph published on Physical examinations. The committee is now in communication with Dr. McCloy concerning some of these and will perhaps want to recommend the inclusion of a description of technique for these tests in the final committee report.

Recommendations.

I.	HISTORY

1.	Date of Birth.

2.	Disabling injuries as sprains, fractures, dislocations, etc., and illnesses or operations within last two years.

3.	Menstrual history. [Age of beginning for High School only].

Interval-Reg., days......Irreg., days.....Duration,

days........Pain.....Duration, hrs........days.....

Amount: none, slight, moderate, severe.

Region: abdomen, back, legs, others.

Other symptoms: headache, depression, lassitude, fatigue, nausea, constipation.

Treatment-Bed: days.......his......Heat, Medicine,

Exercise.

4.	Elimination—Daily? Yes......No......Feces: hard, soft.

Laxatives: frequently, seldom, never.

5.	Circulatory. Dyspnea on exertion. Vertigo.

II.	EXAMINATION

Age.....Weight.....Height standing.....[Pulse sitting......

Standing.......]

Body type: Stocky, average, slender.

Per cent of deviation from average weight for height.

Lung Capacity.

Digitized by LjOOQle
152

Posture—profile picture, taken with a plumb line in the picture.

Antero posterior [taken from side].

Bancroft straight line test for weight distribution. Weight: back, normal, forward.

Head: erect, forward—slight, medium, marked. Shoulders: relaxed, normal, stiff.

Upper trunk: back, erect, forward.

Spine: Dorsal curve marked, normal, slight.

Lumbar curve marked, normal, flat.

Chest: exaggeratedly high, normal, low.

Abdomen: muscle tone—firm, relaxed.

Knees: hyper extended, normal, flexed.

Lateral: [taken from back]

Trunk displacement laterally: L R, none, slight, marked

Shoulder girdle: R, L shoulder: high, low: R, L twisted back

Scapulae: Prominence of vertebral borders: slight, mod., marked.

Prominence of inferior angles: slight, mod., marked.

Evidences of scoliosis: L R, Dorsal, Lumbar, slight, moderate, marked.

Flexibility antero posterior: Lat., good, fair, poor Pain: Dorsal, Lumbar, Sacro illiac.

Feet—Walking posture, toes straight or out-toeing; slight, mod., marked.

Symptoms of weakness: pain, fatigue, burning Long Arch—Pronation: [Feet together, distance between internal malleoli with heels touching or between heels with internal malleoli touching. Vertical height from floor to internal malleolus.]

Flexibility: poor, medium, good [Flexion of foot beyond rt. angles to leg.]

Anterior arch—callous: none, medium, marked.

Toe extensors: normal, shortened.

Signs of improper shoes and habits; corns, callous, inside line straight—deviations, slight, marked, bunion, hammer toe, overlapping toes, compressed toes, shortened tendon Achilles.

Bibliography.

1	Wilder—A laboratory Manual of Anthropometry—1920

2	Seaver— Anthropometry and Physical Examination—1896

3	Hastings—Manual for Physical Measurements for Boys and

Girls—1902

4	Neilson and Van Hagen—Manual of Physical Education

Activities—1929

5	Morrison and Chenoweth—Normal and Elementary Physical

Diagnosis—1928

Digitized by LjOOQle
153

6	Bovard and Cozens—Tests and Measurements in Physical

Education—1930

7	Physical Education Activities for High School Girls by Staff

of the Physical Education Department, University of Michigan—'1928

8.	Lippitt—A Manual of Corrective Gymnastics—1923.

9.	Nature and Scope of Examinations—Ed. by Jay B. Nash-

1931.

10.	Wajrman— Education through Physical Education—1928.

11.	Williams—The Organization and Administration of Physical

Education—1922.

Committee.

Genevieve Barber, Evanston, Illinois.

Dr. Margaret Bell, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

Dr. Helen D. Denniston, Madison, Wisconsin.

Miss Esther Gilman, O.S.U., Columbus, Ohio.

Ruth I. Hoover, Lawrence, Kansas.

Mabel Lee, Lincoln, Nebraska.

Kathleen Lowrie, Wooster, Ohio.

Marion Mair, New Haven, Connecticut.

Gertrude Manchester, Delaware, Ohio.

Violet Marshall, Berkeley, California.

Marian Maxim, Oak Park, Illinois.

Dr, J. Anna Norris, Minneapolis, Minnesota.

Miss Tarbell, Ohio Wesleyan University, Delaware, Ohio.

Dr. Gertrude E. Moulton, Oberlin, Ohio. 1932 Convention, A. P. E. A.

FIRST PUBLIC ELEMENTARY SCHOOL PLAY DAY, ST. LOUIS, MO.

A report upon the mass demonstration of play and recreation activities, as provided and practiced in the Course of Physical Education during the school year. The play day was held at the Public School Stadium, May 18, 1932, from 1:45 p.m. to 3:45 p. m.

On March 30, 1932, all elementary schools were notified by the Superintendent that a play day for the pupils of these schools was to be prepared and conducted by the supervisory division of the Physical Education Department, and that the Public School Stadium was to be used for that purpose. The Board of Education had provided a half holiday for this play day for all elementary schools.

On account of the depression and the fact that all participating schools had to defray the transportation cost of their pupils, the participation in this demonstration was made voluntary. With all of these obstacles, 87 schools [76 white and 11 colored] entered groups of their pupils for participation. This willingness to take part under the above named conditions is the best indication of confidence that principals and teachers displayed for physical education and its supervisors.

Digitized by uooq Le
154

The main purpose of this play day was to show the parents of pupils and the pupils in general the play and recreation activities as provided and practiced in the physical education program during the entire school year. The program for this occasion, therefore, consisted of games, song plays, dances, and stunts, grouped in a mass demonstration, based upon the slogan “A Game for Every Child and a Child for Every' Game”. The participating pupils of 87 schools were organized in four sections: Section A, containing the schools of North Saint Louis; Section B, the schools of the Center City; Section C, the schools of South Saint Louis; and Section D, the Colored Schools. The management and all preparatory work, was assigned to the assistant supervisors in charge of these sections during the entire school year. By this arrangement principals, teachers, pupils, and supervisors knew each other, which facilitated cooperation and quick action in a large degree.

The football field in the Stadium was the stage of action. All the play courts needed were plainly marked on the grass and numbered from 1 to 50. Each teacher in charge of a team or group of children was given the number of the court assigned to^ her team, and her only duty was to lead her team to that court. At the finish of each activity, signaled by the blow of a whistle, the teacher and her group passed off the field at the nearest exit and walked to seats assigned in reserved sections of the stands. Fifty groups of pupils [30 to a group] played their games at the same time without confusion. In this order the nine numbers of the program followed each other in prompt succession, each being limited to ten minutes’ time. The program started with a parade of all participants at 1:50 p. m,. and was ended with a Maypole Dance at 3:37 p. m., which occupied one hour and forty seven minutes in all. The number of participants consisted of 87 principals, 308 teachers, and 7373 pupils; 11 principals, 27 teachers, and 632 pupils representing the colored schools.

One of the outstanding features of this mass demonstration was the fine cooperation of everyone concerned, the good conduct and prompt response of the pupils, and the good order and discipline observed by everyone in the stands. All principals acting on a committee of order in the stands deserve much credit for this accomplishment. Everyone was out of the Stadium by 4:00 p. m. No one was reported lost or hurt, and all seemed to have enjoyed the afternoon. Many favorable comments upon the success of this our first elementary school play day have reached us from educators, the daily newspapers; and citizens who attended.

The entire expense for this mass demonstration amounted to $86.65.

Digitized by CjOOQle
155

GENERAL COMMITTEE DECISIONS.

The committee on foods of the American Medical Association authorizes the publication of the following general Committee Decisions adopted for its own guidance and that of food manufacturers and advertising agencies on food advertising.

Raymond Periwig, Secretary.

Chocolate and Cocoa Products: Special Recommendations

For Children

Special recommendations for children are not permissible for foods consisting largely of chocolate or cocoa which contain considerable quantities of theobromine and caffeine; no objection will be taken, however, to such recommendations in the case of foods that are merely flavored with chocolate or cocoa and which, in quantities likely to be consumed, are free from any probable effects due to theobromine or caffeine, provided the recommendations are permissible for the basic foods themselves.

Declaration of Added Salt or Sugar in Sieved Vegetables or Fruits Intended For Infant or Invalid Feeding or For

Special Diets

Added salt or sugar in sieved vegetables or fruits intended for infant or invalid feeding or for special diets shall be given appropriate and prominent declaration. This iiiformation may be of importance to physicians prescribing their use.

Gelatin Not An Aid To The Digestibility Of Milk And Milk

Products.

There is no satisfactory evidence that gelatin increases the digestibility of milk or milk products. Such claims are not permissible.

“Health Food” Claims

The term “health food” and equivalent claims or statements to the effect that a food gives or assures “health” are vague, meaningless and misleading and are not permissible in food advertising. Statements of well established nutritional or physiologic values of foods are permissible.

Mastication Not An Aid To Health Of Teeth And Gums

Claims that the mastication of specific foods “keeps the teeth and gums clean and healthy” and equivalent statements are meaningless, misleading and deceptive by implication and are not permissible.

Prepared Fruit Juice (Liquid, Frozen Or Dried)

Fruit juices, whether liquid, frozen or dried, shall be prepared and packed in such a manner as to preserve in the highest degree possible with the most efficient available commercial methods their natural vitamin values; products with materially reduced vitamin content shall bear appropriate and prominent declaration to that effect.

Sulphur Dioxide In Infant Foods

Small quantities of sulphur dioxide are permissible in fruit

Digitized by LjOOQle
156

products specially prepared for infants or children, provided the quantity does not exceed that compatible with good manufacturing practice in the preparation of the dried fruit used.

Tonic Claims

The term “tonic" or its inflected forms have vague and misleading meanings or implications in food advertising and are not permissible.

Uses Of Terms “Sterile" “Sterilized" And “Sterilization"

The terms “sterile," “sterilized" and “sterilization” shall be used in food advertising in their correct scientific significance only. Foods processed to be free of pathogenic organisms or to keep sound and wholesome are not necessarily sterile, i. e., free from viable micro-organisms.

Vitamin And Mineral Content Of Sieved Fruits Or Vegetables Recommended For Infants, Children And For

Special Diets

Sieved fruits or vegetables prepared for the feeding of infants and children or for other special diets shall retain in highest degree possible with the most efficient available manufacturing methods the vitamin and mineral content of the raw fruits or vegetables; products with materially reduced vitamin or mineral content shall bear appropriate and prominent declaration to that effect.

Vitamin Claims In Food Advertising

Indefinite or general vitamin claims are vague, noninforma-tive and misleading and do not permit a distinction between foods as sources of the respective vitamins. Vitamin claims shall stipulate the specific vitamin or vitamins present. Vitamins present	in a food	in	insufficient quantity to	contribute	in

any significant manner	to	the respective vitamins	value	of	the

diet do not warrant mention. It is desirable that warranted vitamin claims be expressed in appropriate terms indicative of the relative potency of the food as a source of the vitamins in the dietary schedule. Foods may be considered relatively as fair, good and excellent or rich sources of vitamins.

Representative examples of the respective sources of the vitamins follow:

A.	Fair..........Green vegetables.

Good...........Tomatoes, whole yellow com, hens’ eggs.

Excellent......Butter.

B.	[Bl]	Fair ........Lean muscle meat.

Good ........... Heart, liver, kidney, eggs, milk, whole

cereals, green vegetables.

Excellent	Wheat germ, asparagus.

C.	Fair..........Raw pears.

Good...,.......Bananas, pineapple.

Excellent .....Raw vine-ripened tomatoes, grapefruit,

lemons, oranges.

D.	Fair ..........Milk or butter

Good............ Eggs.

Excellent......Cod liver oil.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
157

' E. Fair...........

Good...........Whole wheat.

Excellent.......Wheat germ.

G. Fair ...........Whole	wheat, dried	beans, soya beans.

Good............Wheat germ, meat,	green	vegetables.

Excellent .....Dried yeast, milk, eggs, liver, kidney.

Vitamin Content Of Tomato Juice

Tomato juice shall retain in highest degree possible with the most efficient available manufacturing methods the vitamin content of the raw juice; products with materially reduced vitamin content shall bear appropriate and prominent declaration to that effect.

Vitamin Fortification Of Foods

Tentatively no objection is taken to the reasonable fortification of food products, whether intended for special diets, convalescents or general use, with vitamin concentrates or with natural foods rich in vitamins; provided that, should future authentic information disclose evidence of danger from excess of any specific vitamin in the diet or that fortification of common foods with certain specific vitamins is not entirely in the interest of public health, then objection will be taken to such fortification without prejudice to the present decision.

The Low Death Rate In The Prevailing Depression

J. Norman Henry, M. D., Director, Phila. Dept. Pub. Health.

During the years 1930, 1931 and the first four months of this year, there has been reported by the United States Public Health Service, by Municipal and State Health Authorities and by Insurance Companies, the statement that we are passing through the healthiest period in history.

Statistics applying to Philadelphia also place the past two years among the healthiest on record. In 1930 the death rate was 12.56 and in 1931, 12.82. The nearest low record was reported in 1921, when the country was just emerging from the depression which followed shortly after the World War.

Numerous editorial comments have been published in the newspapers explaining the present low death rate of the country due to the efficiency of health departments and the health educational work carried on among the laity and particularly the public schools, for the prevention of disease and promotion of public health.

Surely the control of 'typhoid fever, making it a rare disease, is an accomplishment of sanitation. The control of diphtheria is attributed to medical science. The reduction in the mortality among infants may certainly be credited to the pasteuri-zation of milk and scientific enlightenment on the care of babies •Delivered at 12th Annual Meeting of the American Student Health Association, December, 1931.

Digitized by floosie
158

as promulgated not alone by the medical profession but by the health departments of the country through their Divisions of Child Hygiene.

The death rate from tuberculosis has been cut in half in the past, twenty years due, it is said, to public health measures. There are some tuberculosis experts, however, including Fish-berg, who are rather skeptical and reluctant to give full credit to public health measures. They are inclined to believe that tuberculosis bacillus is now going through the stage of low virulence, and although generally distributed, does not have the same damaging effect upon the human race as it did twenty and thirty years ago. The latter opinion, however, while it may be given some merit, can be largely discounted because of lack of convincing proof.

On the other hand, we have heard recently expressed an opinion by no less an authority than Dr.. Ray Lyman Wilbur, that the economic depression has in itself aided the health of the nation, particularly the health of the childhood population.

Most assuredly the nutritional effect upon the population during times of depression may not show its damaging effects immediately. Scurvy will not occur in this country as long as vegetables and fruits are available. Diseases of the nervous system attributed to lack of certain vitamins in foods have not taken hold upon the general population, since there is no shortage of cereals and other foods which supply these essential elements. There has been no evidence of xerophthalmia as a result of fat deficiencies or lack of vitamin “A”. While food supplies of various types are plentiful, yet they are not available in full amounts to thousands of families, where there is strong evidence of a slow but certain lack of ample nourishment.

Undermining the health through undernourishment is the foundation for the spread of tuberculosis. Although the tuberculosis germ may be attenuated in character, it is likely to take new activity when the human media become favorable to their growth. Tuberculosis is not an acute disease like influenza, and therefore will make itself most evident when the childhood population of today reaches young manhood and womanhood.

It is, therefore, not reasonable to believe the hasty opinion expressed that the present depression has reacted favorably upon the health of the country. Although statistics as furnished us are evidence of health, these statistics if interpreted are like the lull before the storm. Unless every home is furnished with ample foods to stave off the slow process of starvation, the next generation will pay dearly for our shortcomings. Those who expect convincing evidence of famine, such as the large pot bellies described by Miss Pearl S. Buck'in “Good Earth,” before they are convinced of the present depression will be disappointed. Social service agencies all over the world bear witness to the possible dangers of lack of sufficient food. Public Health experts look forward to an increase in tuberculosis unless every child is given sufficient and ample nourishing foods.

Digitized by
159

False Impression From Statistics.

It requires years of experience and the knowledge of the computation of statistics in order to interpret them. It is true that we have just passed through a period in which the death rate has been the lowest in the history of the country. It should be noted, however, that during the past two years the country has been fortunate in being free from serious epidemic diseases, the most important of which is influenza. If we had been visited by such an epidemic as occurred in the year 1918 or the reoccurrence of influenza in 1920, our death rate would have been unusually high and coupled with the economic distress there would have been untold suffering. No such outbreak really occurred.

We know that influenza influences unfavorably the death rate from heart disease, kidney disease and tuberculosis, and by reason of its complications of the ear, nose and throat leads to secondary infections which increase the death rate from contributory causes. Influerua, therefore, appears to be the most important disease in determining the health of the country. It is even far more important than pneumonia, although they are intimately related to each other.

Therefore, those who attribute the excellent health conditions to the efficiency of health departments in maintaining sanitary conditions and to educational propaganda only give credit to a few of the efforts and fail to take into consideration the fact that respiratory diseases, such as influenza, are at the present time not controlled by public health measures. A real reason, therefore, for the low death rate is that the Lord has spared us serious outbreaks of uncontrollable epidemic diseases.

STITCH

In its original and complete meaning—a sharp acute pain in the intercostal region—the term “stitch” is rarely employed, although it may be frequently encountered in Shakespeare, and Dr. Percy Kidd, in Allbutt’s “System of Medicine,” refers to the “agonizing stitch of pleurisy.” In its limited more popular application, by stitch is generally understood the familiar pain in the side induced by sudden severe muscular exercise, especially if food has been taken only a short time previously. The genesis of stitch has always been of no little interest to athletes, since its occurrence usually demands cessation of the exercise. Some relation to the circulation has perhaps not unnaturally been regarded as the important factor; for example, it has been attributed to tension of the capsule of the spleen through congestion of the viscus, and references are forthcoming in classical and Biblical literature to the operation of splenectomy in runners as a preventive measure. To the objection that the right side of the body is sometimes or is often affected, supporters of the circulatory hypothesis incriminate the liver instead of, or equally with, the spleen, though the performance of hepatectomy was probably not contemplated even by our enterprising predecessors.

Digitized by CjOOQle
160

That oarsmen, in whom the exertion is at least as violent as in runners, are immune from stitch was not considered an objection to the explanation, inasmuch as the muscular movements and the posture in boat-racing would encourage the expulsion of blood from the solid abdominal viscera and so avoid distension. The death blow to the circulatory hypothesis was however, struck by Joseph Barcroft in his demonstration that the spleen during exercise is contracted, not distended. Furthermore, the same kind of pain is produced by riding a camel with a jerky action or a motor-cycle on a rough road, although in these circumstances any circulatory influences may be excluded. It becomes necessary therefore to construct a more satisfactory hypothesis based upon ligamentous or muscular phenomena. The subject is entertainingly considered in the Guy’s Hospital Gazette of April 30th, with subsequent correspondence in a later number. The writer, E. T. C*, regards as essential factors the erect posture and a jolting up and down movement. In the erect attitude, he points out, the heaviest viscera, the stomach, liver, and spleen, are partly supported by the musculature of the abdominal walls, and stitch appears in those situations where the walls are less able to provide adequate support, so that the vertical strain on the ligaments is much itensified. The idea that spasm of the diaphragm might be responsible was disproved by the experiments of four Guy's students who voluntarily induced stitch by running after a heavy meal, and in whom fluro-scopic examination failed to reveal any diminution or defect in diaphragmatic movement. During running, whilst maximum excursion of the respiratory musculature of both thorax and abdomen is essential, there is at each expiratory gasp complete relaxation of the muscles maintaining intra-abdominal pressure. If violent jolts coincide repeatedly with this relaxation, the result will be an intermittent tugging strain on the coronary and other ligaments, an “acute physiological visceroptosis” so to speak, an effect which the Guy’s writer states will tend to disappear with the better coordinated respiratory movements when “second wind” is established—an opinion which will not, however, be corroborated by all long-distance runners. Stitch, it is clear, is more likely in the case of the untrained; it will be expected in cross-country running where the surfaces to be traversed are rough and irregular, and also in certain runners whose imperfections of style and action lead to jerkiness and vibration. In all probability there is also a constitutional predisposing factor, since, as is well known to clinicians, visceroptosis is productive of symptoms only, in those subjects with the appropriate receptive mechanism.—The Lancet.

The 1931 report of the National Tuberculosis Association announces that tne deathrate from tuberculosis in the United States of 67 is now, one-third of what it was in 1904.

Digitized by t^ooQle
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 39

NOVEMBER, 1932

No. 407

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Emil Rath, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

Carl L. Schrader, Boston, Massachusetts.

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Asso., New York.

Grover W. Mueller, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.,

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editor, 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa.

Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

We are pleased to announce that Mr. James E. Rogers, Director of National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Association, has become associated with Mind and Body as a member of its Editorial Committee. To most of our readers Mr. Rogers needs no introduction. His intelligent, untiring, and well directed efforts throughout the country have contributed greatly to the rapid advance of physical education. Probably no man in recent years has done more to spread the gospel of our progression and to enlist the sympathetic aid of outstanding educators.

We extend a cordial greeting to Mr. Rogers in behalf of our readers. His association with us gives assurance that we will be kept in constant touch with the physical education pulse of the entire country.

Affiliation of Normal College, A. G. U. and Indiana

University

The Normal College of the American Gymnastic Union and Indiana University have consummated a plan of affiliation which should be of mutual benefit. The affiliation offers a unique advantage to students of the Normal College since under this plan it will be possible for the student to obtain by a combined four-year course in both schools the degrees of both institutions. It will also enable students to obtain a license to teach physiology and health education and an elective third subject in addition to physical education.

The Normal College is the oldest American school for the training of teachers in physical education and it has enjoyed a long and honorable existence. Affiliation with Indiana University represents another forward step which will receive the enthusiastic praise of our profession.

An Announcement and A Greeting
162

The New Day and the New Physical Education

By James Edward Rogers, National Recreation Association.

The public schools are as much responsible for physical literacy as for mental literacy. Physical illiteracy is on an increase in this country. In the future it will be increasingly more difficult for boys and girls to live physically well and to keep fit. The schools therefore must provide not only for the mental training of youth but also for their physical and health education.

This industrial high-speed civilization is doing damage to the physique of our people. Rapid changes from a rural to an urban population and from an agricultural to an industrial life dominated by the mechanical machine has caused the rapid rise of a new set of national diseases that play havoc with the race, especially in the ages of middle life. We have three new national diseases; [1] physical breakdowns, [2] mental breakdowns, and

[3]	nervous breakdowns. It seems as though the human machine is cracking under the stress and strain of modern tension and speed.

We have conquered communicable diseases, increased the longevity of life in the years preceding the forties and decreased child mortality, yet there is an increase in the death rate of adults between the ages of forty and sixty-five. This is due to functional disorders of the heart, lungs, liver, kidneys and stomach. These vital organs, essential to life and well being, depend upon big muscle activity. They were taken care of when men lived out-of-doors and did the work of the world with the use of their arms and legs—the big muscles. It is recorded that sixty percent of our school children have physical defects. The draft statistics show that one-third of our young men were unfit to don the uniform. Life extension societies show an increase in the death rate in the ages of middle life. The antidote is more out-of-door living, more big muscle activities through sports and games and a balanced ration of work, play and rest.

Because of these facts physical education has become an important part of the school curriculum. As education has changed, so physical education has progressed. It is no longer physical culture—the building of big muscles and strong men. It is no longer physical training—the developing of the acrobat and the athletic star. It is now physical education—education not of the physical but through the physical.

The contributions of physical education to education are many.

1.	Its gymnasium program makes for biological growth and physical fitness in the gymnasium.

2.	Its sports program makes for character building and citizenship training on the athletic fields.

Digitized by kjOOQle
1(3

3.	Its recreation program promotes the wise use of leisure on the playgrounds.

4.	Its health program makes for better living in the classroom.

5.	Its educational program promotes citizenship training through life situations.

Leadership.

Grover W. Mueller.

Higher Schools

I.	Curricular Activities.

Physical Education.

The training and duties of leaders are approximately the same in both the junior and the senior high schools so that a separate discussion for each type of school is not necessary. The same general plan used by elementary schools in the assignment of leaders is followed in the higher schools. However, classes are usually so much larger, the program of activities is so much richer, and the pupils are so much more capable in the latter type of school that the duties of leaders are correspondingly more comprehensive.

It is nothing unusual for as many as 12 to 16 leaders to serve as instructional assistants at the same time. That a greater amount of activity per pupil and a more differentiated program may be provided under these conditions is at once obvious. The availability of so many instructional assistants makes it practical to divide classes into smaller groups on the basis of capacity and proficiency. In such a situation it is possible to offer a differentiated program which best meets individual needs. When pupils are grouped with their peers, interest is stimulated and maintained and individual progress is much more rapid.

The instructional leaders demonstrate and explain the correct techniques in various activities, make constructive criticisms of the performances of members of their squads or teams, and render manual assistance for the purpose of aiding others in the learning process and to prevent falls during difficult movements. In the better conducted classes, nil squad members are permitted and encouraged to assist the leaders and each other in these respects.

As in the elementary schools, the leaders are also assigned to games in which connection they serve as officials, captains, and coaches.

Duties are not limited, however, to direct contact with physical activities. Other services .are many and they are varied. They include recording of attendance, thus greatly facilitating this necessary administrative measure; making and placing posters and records of achievement; assisting in clerical work thereby leaving the teacher free to expand the activity program; marking

Continued From Last Month.

Digitized by L^ooQle
164

game courts; directing committees of pupils in making minor repairs to equipment; and assisting in other important capacities.

Each class has its corps of leaders which in most cases is given special training during club or afterschool periods. This corps is continually augmented as the need becomes apparent and as other pupils demonstrate capacity for leadership. As stated previously, rotation of assignments is usually made in order that many pupils may have an opportunity to serve. In some schools separate groups of leaders are organized for service in connection with each of the several types of service indicated in the preceding paragraph.

The means of visible identification of leaders varies in the several schools as it is purely a local matter, but they consist commonly either of a felt letter L which is sewed on the front of the gymnasium costume or of a felt arm band.

The training given these pupils is described later in the report.

Health Education.

A health project similar to that referred to in connection with elementary schools is also conducted in junior high schools. While the effectiveness of this project in stimulating and maintaining an interest in health and in the practice of health habits among the pupils cannot be measured accurately, nevertheless the visible results which have been obtained in administering the project are of such a nature as to warrant an expression of great satisfaction.

It is gratifying to note the amount of pupil participation which has developed in this field. Numerous pupil committees under the leadership of their own members are continually active in several aspects of health and sanitation. The chairmen of committees deliver short talks in the school assembly: committee members of which there is at least one in each class, report untidy and unsanitary conditions on the school premises to their classmates and remind them of their individual and group responsibility with regard to the same; timely articles are written for school papers; and interesting and timely posters are made and hung in strategic places in the buildings.

II. Extra-Curricular Activities.

Intraschool Activities.

Due to the presence of teachers of physical education and more adequate indoor facilities in higher schools, more elaborate and extensive afterschool activity programs are conducted than is possible in elementary schools. This condition permits greater use of leaders, thereby reaching a large number of pupils, and affording them additional opportunities for service.

In its general aspects the work of these leaders is the same as that in the playgrounds and afterschool programs in elementary schools. However, with respect to organization and management of activities and care of equipment the responsibilities are much

Digitized by L^ooQle
PUPIL LEADERSHIP IN CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES JUNIOR HIGH SHOOLS
166

greater. This is particularly the case in senior high schools. It is rather common practice for a manager and an assistant manager to organize a league consisting of 40 or more teams, to arrange the schedule of games, to select and assign pupil officials, and to distribute play material in the custody of other leaders. Home room classes and assemblies are addressed by them for the purpose of stimulating the organization and entry of many class teams. Disputes are settled by representative committees of leaders.

Interschool Activities.

It is today quite generally agreed that interschool competitive athletics, except in small amount and in modified form, should be reserved for senior high school boys. This policy is followed in the Philadelphia public schools. Accordingly the number of leaders which it is possible to use in this connection is limited. Those who serve, however, receive the advantages of valuable training and experience not only in leading and managing the activities but in meeting and dealing with many people. The managers of school teams receive a liberal social education and executive training. The captains, too, are favored in this respect especially when teachers place in their charge—as they should— the responsibility of direct control and leadership during games.

Training of Leaders in Higher Schools.

Efficient service, especially in its instructional aspects, requires that leaders be given training in the work they are to do. It requires further that the teachers themselves be good leaders and organizers.

To meet the need for training, Leaders' Clubs are organized in most higher schools. Promising pupils in each class volunteer or are selected by the teachers. The clubs meet regularly during club periods or after school hours. Usually the entire group is so large that it is divided into sections which meet at different times. The sections are generally organized on the basis of school grade, but additional sections of leaders for use in connection with afterschool programs are common.

During club meetings emphasis is placed on mastery in those activities which members will be called on to lead. The wise teacher, however, sets aside a portion of the period for practice in advanced skills and for participation in self-chosen activities for the purpose of keeping the interest and enthusiasm of leaders at its greatest height.

The training periods are also used to afford practice in leadership. This is done by means of rotation of assignments which allows each member many opportunities to teach squads and to officiate in games.

Playgrounds.

I.	Schoolyear Playgrounds.

Leadership by pupils has made possible the wide scope of activity found in our schoolyear playgrounds. Without leaders

Digitized by AjOOQle
167

many of our boys and girls would tend toward haphazard play of little or no value to them, or in some instances to idleness. It is impossible for one teacher to assume immediate conduct of a variety of activities, but with recognized leaders this may be accomplished. Pupils like to feel that someone in authority is officiating at their game. If that someone be a leader delegated to act as an official representative of the teacher, that in itself is a source of satisfaction. The playground teacher is then left free to associate herself not with any one particular group but with all. She thus distributes her influence to the common good.

Pupil leadership has made possible the conduct of many league schedules in baseball, dodgeball, captainball, basketball batball, and soccer. Where the yard facilities are ample, a number of these league games may be seen in operation every day of the schoolyear playground. The work incidental to the making of schedules, the posting of class teams due to play on a certain date, the assignment of referees, scorers and timers, the recording of team standing in the league, are matters of detail which must be done by leaders developed to assume such responsibility.

Not only do leaders prove of worth in games which can be organized into leagues, but in those games of low organization fitted for the younger children. It is possible to form many intimate groups of younger children and to provide the variety which suits their temperament. Song games, story telling, bean bag toss, walking on stilts, swings, low horizontal bar may be put into operation under the guidance of older boys and girls who are given the responsibility for their conduct. There is no> helter skelter shifting of boys and girls looking for something to do, or rather someone to start something which may appeal to them. Here it is in infinite variety and all brought about by responsible pupil leadership.

In many playgrounds certain days are given over to track and field competition. Here again a number of officials to judgd and score and time are needed. Pupil leaders assume this responsibility.

Another outstanding contribution of pupil leaders to the successful conduct of the playground is the guarding against accident. Leaders are trained to be ever on the alert to prevent accident. They must be carefully instructed in the recognition of the causes of accidents, the danger spots of their particular activity, and to act promptly. It is gratifying to note the relatively low percentage of accidents that happen in a well-organized, pupil-controlled playground.

II. Summer Playgrounds.

The principal difference between the summer playground and the afterschool playground lies in the length of day devoted to recreational activities. The longer daily sessions of the summer playground allow for a greater variety of activity periods in its program. Here again pupil leadership must be fostered. The added duties which the leaders in the summer playgrounds assume

Digitized by
168

are concerned mainly with the assembly and handcraft activities.

In the assemblies these pupils assist in leading singing, telling stories, and in directing dramatizations and debates.

Because of its special nature, handcraft requires a more individualized type of instruction and guidance than some of the other phases of the playground program. This need is met by classifying the children in small groups on the basis of ability, interest, and sex under the direction of leaders. The great variety of projects thus involved requires considerable preparation of materials and management of tools which offer additional responsibilities to the leaders. At the same time the teacher is given greater opportunity to extend her expert services to the children as individuals.

During the summer months” sectional play days are arranged. Children from other playgrounds meet in friendly and spirited contest. Samples of handcraft are placed on exhibition and serve to stimulate inventive genius. The value of pupil leaders during these playground meets stands out exceptionally well. Many unfamiliar faces are in the playground and it is necessary to promote good fellowship among stranger playmates. Here the leaders play their part in promoting friendships and smoothing the path of the playground teacher. Were it not for the assistance of pupil leaders, such playground gatherings would not be feasible.

Training of Playground Leaders.

The selection of membership in the Leaders' Group in school-year playgrounds calls for cooperation on the part of the school with the playground teacher. The principal and teacher of the school select most of the play leaders. They are intimate with the pupils and can best judge qualities of reliability, good judgment, skill, self control, and initiative.

At stated intervals the leaders meet to receive instruction and practice in the art of leadership. The instruction includes descriptions of games, correct use of play apparatus, and techniques to improve individual and team play. In addition, practice is given in playing and conducting games, officiating in games, and teaching children the correct use of play apparatus. The pupil is permitted to wear the official badge which identifies him as a leader only after demonstrating his ability during a designated number of days.

The leaders' organization is led by a pupil elected as captain and one elected as manager. The captain’s duty is to supervise the activities of the leaders in the school yard. The manager has charge of records, schedules, assignments, and announcements.

With this organization and training it has been possible in a single school to develop and maintain leader groups with an active membership of 60 or more pupils. These pupils have demonstrated their ability to conduct simultaneously as many as 30 different kinds of vigorous play activities. Such organized leadership emphasizes the educational possibilities.

Digitized by LjOOQle
169

The selection of pupil leaders for summer playgrounds calls for careful judgment on the part of the teacher in selecting her leaders. The summer playground teacher does not have the advantage of selection made by the school principal or teacher. It is her duty to search out potential leadership and to train it along the lines suggested above.

The Challenge of 1932

W. G. Moorhead, Director, Division of Health and Physical Education, Harrisburg.

This time of economic adjustment presents to education a very distinct challenge. It is a challenge to our faith in physical education as a fundamental and integral part of our educational program. We now have an opportunity to pause for a moment and evaluate our claims and procedures—and to build anew upon a sounder and more substantial foundation. We shall undoubtedly eliminate, much to our profit, many procedures that, alone because of their antiquity, we have cherished far beyond their actual worth. We shall cease to spend energy and thought as to the differences, if any, between tweedle dum and tweedle dee. Many of us, for the first time, are going to have a deeper appreciation of the educational implications of a physical activities program and a clearer understanding of its significance is a factor of prime importance in any scheme of education.

In the period of inflation of the past few years, our educational programs have undoubtedly gathered unto themselves many things that they can now do without. But, surprisingly, to most of us, the basic and fundamental things that many schools now propose to do without, in the hysteria of economy, makes it exceedingly difficult to understand the psychology that lies behind it. We are hearing a great deal about “fads” and “frills”. Teachers' salaries appear to be frills in some cities. The health of children is a frill in others. In still others, physical education is a fad and something not vital or even essential to a complete program of education. The truth is, however, that the attack, although aimed at these so-called fads and frills, is not a serious nor reasoned opposition to them, but in reality is only an excuse to get out from under a burdensome tax load. The schools are attacked because it is easier to get or withhold money from them than it is to correct the fundamental iniquities and antiquities of local government. Commenting on the results of this policy, Dr. Hutchins, President of the University of Chicago, is quoted as follows: “Only a people that have no conception of the place of education in its national life could contemplate the ruin of the next generation as the best remedy for governmental insolvency.”

The ways of man, particularly in the mass, are often hard to fathom. If, however, we give some thought to the historical

Digitized by
170

development of our educational system, we will undoubtedly find a clue that explains much of this attitude toward a program of health and physical education. Most of you will recall Dr. Rogers’ vivid presentation of the development and addition of the various sectors of education. Newest of all is our own. Perhaps right here we have discovered the too common attitude that because of its newness it must necessarily be lacking in accepted standards that are to be found in the older but less vital subjects in the curriculum. The old is in ever constant conflict with the new. The separate origin of all the various parts of our educational system has made it difficult for many to see it as an integrated whole with common objectives and purposes. Too frequently we, as teachers in one particular field, have intensified that difference and antagonism through a mutual lack of respect and disdain with which we have mutually treated one another. We must always keep clearly before us that our work is interdependent—it is not mind versus body—and that our interests and purposes are identical and our problems the same.

The people of this country have been exceedingly generous in making provision for our program. Millions of dollars have been given to us in the form of facilities and salaries. Approximately 20% of the cost of all high school construction is given to gymnasiums, pools, showers and locker rooms. Our educational leaders have given us generously of time, and in the organization of this program have given us the opportunity to develop a real program, progressive, forward looking and with very definite aims and objectives. We have, perhaps, been too close to it, to get a clear picture of the whole. We have thought of it too much in terms of exercise or of systems. The shores of physical education are strewn with the wreckage of systems that were destined never to survive. Why can't we place before our students our outcomes in terms of its contribution to right social adjustment, sportsmanship, etc.?

Now that the flow of money to education is diminishing, isn’t it a good time to give more thought to our methods, our standards, our curriculum content, our research work and our construction program? We have, for years, been making all kinds of experiments, studies, and surveys. They have revealed to us many truths that are important. Let’s get them out of the printed page and make of them an instrument in the develop ment of a practical program.

In closing, I have faith in physical education. I am ever conscious of its glorious past and its still more glorious future. Have faith in yourself and in your work. It is a work that is making perhaps the most significant and far reaching contribution that has ever been made to the enrichment of any educational program—of any people, at any time—1932 Convention, A.PE.A.

Digitized by Google
171

An Opportunity and A Challenge

By Eugene W. Nixon, Pomona College, Claremont College,

California.

Recently it has been suggested in all seriousness that the people of the United States could save a billion dollars annually by substituting the radio and motion pictures for the teacher in the schools.

To those who have known only the machine age the suggestion may seem in some degree normal and natural. But to those of us with a background of old fashioned Americanism the suggestion is the last humiliating implication of the failure of organized education to function as an effective social influence in our generation.

To those of us with a background including pioneer ancestry, old fashioned family life, the village church, the little red school unadulterated pride in one’s native land, and jealous loyalty to one's profession, the perplexing social problems of the day still seem to constitute for organized education the most significant challenge in the history of our country, and one which we hesitate to turn over to the mechanical devices of the age.

For in view of the disintegration of many of the older social forces in America, and in view of the questionable character of the new influences taking their place, organized education with its personal element seems to represent the last possible effective barrier between civilized society and the forces working for its destruction.

But if education is to meet this challenge we must first come to a realization of the extent to which education has failed as a social influence in our generation. The present ascendency of the crook, trickster, bootlegger, kidnapper, gangster, racketeer, shyster, cheat, swindler, crooked politician and dishonest public official, together with the shameful general dulling of conscience, and lack of moral courage on the part of the American people indicate clearly how far organized education has lagged behind the times.

As a result of this lag we seem nearer to social-moral bankruptcy than to financial bankruptcy. And regardless of the outcome of our economic problem it seems doubtful whether the American democracy can continue to exist indefinitely unless we rehabilitate some of the fundamental virtues. A philosophy of “getting by”, of "every man for himself and the devil take the hindmost”, and an attitude which tolerates and even encourages successful trickery in every form of human relationship is a rotten foundation for any democracy.

There appears no reasonable excuse for organized education longer to evade the responsibility, nor to ignore the challenge implied in the present situation. To do so will be to lend

Digitized by Google
172

support to the suggestion of education under the auspices of the robot.

But any acceptance of the challenge in good faith necessitates the adoption of a new conception of education. A hidebound adherence to the traditional conception of the school as an institution charged solely with the duty of handing down to the young certain forms of specialized knowledge and skill will destroy entirely the effectiveness of the school as a social agency. We must forget the fallacy that intelligence, knowledge, skill, health and vigor equip the individual for worthy citizenship. The school must get down to the business of teaching people how to live together, else all its other accomplishments will eventually go for naught.

In the words of Professor Kilpatrick, “The school now coming into being is and must increasingly be a place where actual living goes on—only as the school is placed on a basis of actual living can certain necessary social-moral habits and attitudes be built—”

This means that physical educators and all other educators must abandon the foolish assumption so common to the profession that social-moral training is going on somewhere other than in their own particular domain. It means that mere exposure to the program of activities of our department is no insurance of desirable social-moral training. It means that physical educators, and every kind of educators, must consider well how the activities of their particular domain may be utilized for practise in better living.

The golden opportunity for physical education to make important contribution to this practice in fine living lies in the almost universal appeal of the activities which constitute the modern program, and to the fact that in these activities more than in any other phase of education, the youth of to day encounters significant social situations to which he must make response.

The depth of the appeal of the sports program is evidenced in the concern expressed by certain serious minded educators over the discovery that the average American boy would prefer to be a second Babe Ruth rather than another Einstein. But this concern is many times offset by the fact that every American boy not already perverted would prefer to be Bobby Jones rather than A1 Capone, or “Pepper” Martin rather than another "Legs” Diamond or “Gyp the Blood”.

The urge to adventure and the desire for physical activity are older and more fundamental than the desire for intellectual activity. But fortunately these urges are also more nearly related to the fundamental emotions out of the training of which only can we hope to develop the emotionalized attitudes which must form the basis of fine character.

In the past a majority of physical educators have displayed an amazing lack of appreciation of the possible social-moral values inherent in the physical education program, and an even

Digitized by CjOOQle
173

more appalling ignorance of how these values may be attained. The conduct of our programs of interschool and intercollegiate athletics is an example to the point. These competitive sports with their demand for manly qualities, and their deep emotional appeal, offer one of the best possible opportunities for the practise of fine living. In many schools they serve this purpose. But many another school and college program of sports is still permeated by a spirit of unfairness, trickery, insincerity and downright dishonesty.

The idea of an American university offering courses in scientific racketeering would be condemned as the figment of a disordered mind. And yet the practise in deceit, evasion, and petty graft promoted by some of our universities through their sub rosa systems of proselyting and professionalizing their athletes is just exactly the sort of fundamental training any young man ought to receive if he expects to rise to a position of leadership in the profession of racketeering. The fact that the individuals nominally in charge of the destiny of these institutions tolerate such antisocial practises is a sad commentary upon the character, intelligence, and moral courage of many of our leaders in education, and is ultimately one explanation of the dire straits in which this country now finds itself.

If physical education along with education in general is to accept the challenge of the times we must get down to the business of making our work contribute in the fullest possible measure to the development of attitudes of co-operation, sincerity and fair dealing upon which we may hope to build a worth while society.

Obviously this challenge calls upon every physical educator to evaluate himself as an exponent of these qualities. It calls upon each one of us to consider well how our leadership may promote the practice of fine living. It calls upon the teacher training institution to assume a much greater responsibility in this connection. Prospective teachers must no longer be subjected to a mere smattering of loose talk about social-moral values. They must be thoroughly and precisely trained in the functions of leadership, and in the operation of the laws of learning as they apply to social-moral training. Prospective teachers who show no appreciation of the responsibility they face in this direction must be weeded out.

There must be a constantly increasing pressure to eradicate the fundamentally unsound practises in the sports programs of the institutions of higher learning, particularly because these practises tend to contaminate the programs of the schools at large.

Events of the past two years emphasize the fact that a country without a program is in a precarious situation in difficult times. A hopeless welter of minorities with divergent purposes and points of view is obviously no good basis for national progress. Physical education, and the young people under our charge have both suffered ill effects of a similar lack of unified

Digitized by
174

purpose and program. Knowing at first hand the tremendous possibilities for social and moral good inherent in the program over which we preside, and realizing how far short we have been falling of attaining maximum possibilities, there is a very strong appeal in the possibility of a national working conference of leaders in all branches of sports and physical education, animated by the sole purpose of setting up standards and methods of procedure representative of the best thought of the profession. Out of such an undertaking might very possibly come a program to which we could all subscribe, and which might form the basis of unified thinking and united effort which would enable us better to meet the social-moral challenge of our times with a consciousness of having kept the faith reposed in us—1932 Convention, A. P.E. A.

Fencing and Its Relation to Health*

Florence E. Ahlfeldt, M. D.

Fencing was for centuries a means of settling quarrels among gentlemen. With the use of firearms it gradually fell into disuse, becoming a tool of sport rather than death. At the present time duelling is practiced in some of the Universities, abroad and otherwise, but it is very much restricted.

Fencing is not a sport. It is an art. The four outstanding qualities which it will develop are co-ordination, accuracy, alertness and poise.

By co-ordination we mean that the mind has control of every muscle at all times. In correct fencing there are no jerky movements. All the muscles come into play. As there is no undue pressure on any of them, the muscles become elastic, resilient, but not hypertrophied. This is very important for a woman’s figure. It is essential that one group of muscles should not become over developed. In correct fencing the mind controls the body. A muscle is not moved unless it is commanded by the brain. When on guard, the muscles are relaxed and yet ready to take any message from the brain. In a lunge it is the legs that carry one forward and all the muscles are at full extension—from the finger tips down to the toes. This is not done suddenly but gradually, so that all the movements are full of grace. With experience one becomes more efficient, more supple, and with more bending of the knee there is much more extension and power.

Accuracy— the word explains itself. Timing is very important in fencing. This means that one studies his opponent and tries to realize what he will do. This is done by watching his expression, the movement of a muscle and his attitude. Unless the point is well placed, and properly placed, it is not count-

*A radio address delivered in Philadelphia through station WLIT.

Digitized by AjOOQle
176

ed. This means that one must develop delicate sensation in the two fingers which guide the point of the foil. If the foil is not held .correctly one will not have control. A point is not accepted unless it is within a certain range. All this develops accuracy.

Alertness—it is not only the physical that comes into play but also the mental characteristics. One has to be wide awake, watchful, waiting and seeing every little move. A step, a turn of the wrist, a change of thought and other changes are seen out of the corner of the eye. When one is fencing one cannot be thinking of other things. One's mind must be on fencing. This is excellent, for it actually takes one away from one's work. If one’s mind wanders just for a moment, one’s opponent will take the advantage. Correct fencing calls all the forces into play-ready for any emergency. Movements are gradual and easy, and with experience one gains in speed so that a movement is made quick as a flash. Alertness-------in every sense.

Poise—a thing for which every woman strives. If one does not have control of oneself, a good balance, an easy, natural position, one will lose the bout. Those who have fenced for a time will meet sudden, unforeseen things with poise. Usually women will assume a very awkward position. Correct fencing teaches them to have poise. Subconsciously one carries oneself better—one walks with grace—one’s movements become graceful. Nothing will develop gracefulness more than correct fencing. Poise—a very valuable asset.

Unfortunately there are two types of fencing in this country [or in the world]—the right and the wrong. If fencing is done in the right way, with proper supervision, it may be advantageous to a heart case, one with diseased lungs or a very nervous person. ‘Why? Because every muscle of the body comes into play not by a sharp, jerky, exaggerated movement, but by a smooth, co-ordinated, tiger-like movement, which does not put an undue strain upon the circulatory system. It is not only the external muscles which come into play but the internal ones as well, such as the diaphragm, heart and intestinal muscles. The internal organs are affected. The lungs are exercised slowly, deeply and naturally. At all times the fencer is at ease and in a natural position. There is no undue strain on any part of the body. Therefore circulation is gradually stimulated and the blood flows easily throughout. In this correct fencing one strives for co-ordination, poise and alertness rather than for a point.

One cautiously avoids a double touch —when each opponent------------

if in a real duel— would kill the other at the same time— and waits patiently for the proper moment to attack. Then the bout is interesting for it is a battle between two minds.

If fencing is done the wrong way, there are awkward positions, many jerky, excited, non co-ordinated movements. Here the opponents care only for the points. There is much clashing of steel due to the great force which is used. This kind of fencing is harmful even to a healthy person; a woman’s arm becomes disharmoniously developed, and the whole bout is ugly. This

Digitized by LjOOQle
176

wrong fencing is practiced throughout the 'country in most of the colleges. There was a man of unique character, who realized how harmful was this type of fencing. He came, sacrificed everything for his main practical ideal: correct fencing. It was he who developed this correct fencing at the University of Pennsylvania. He who organized the Fencers’ Club of Philadelphia and the Left and Right Fencers’ Association. This guiding genius is Mr. Leonardo Terrone. It is through his efforts that we have correct fencing. Those who have honestly observed both types agree with Mr. Terrone and say that he is right.

With the rules of the Left and Right Fencers’ Association both sides of the brain are developed because the left and the right hands are used in fencing. This is a great physical and mental advantage for both sides are equally developed.

Regardless of what one’s occupation or position in life, health is a prime requisite. If we have health it is up to us to keep it. If we have it not, then we must do all we can to better our impaired state. One of the many things which help is a hobby. Everyone wishes to remain young. Would it not be wise to choose a hobby? One that will give physical and mental health and at the same time keep you young? Correct fencing will do this. One need not stop at 40 or 50 on account of overtaxing the heart. It is quite usual for a person approaching middle age to exercise less than formerly. The days are busy, business demands attention and exercise is forgotten. Then a beautiful day comes and the overtired business man goes out to play golf. At times we hear of players dropping dead on the golf course. This happens because an undue strain was placed upon the heart. Sudden spurts are always harmful to health. That is why, no matter if you be 60, if the right kind of fencing is done, you may go on, and not with harmful but beneficial effects.

Correct fencing will not only develop the physical and mental qualities but will also develop personality and leadership. When you must face a situation—and think it out for yourself— it is you who become stronger. The more you do it, the more courage you have. Thus, gaining comage, and mastering situations, increases your personality and leadership. And also by helping others we ourselves become strong.

With correct fencing, if an experienced fencer is placed with a beginner, each can derive great benefit from it. The older fencer will try to direct the movements of the younger or less experienced one, will avoid a double touch by retreating some at the proper time or otherwise, and at the same time will develop or improve restraint and co-ordination, a parry and a more complete power of extension. The younger or less experienced fencer will profit more rapidly became of such superior kind of study of the opponent, and will improve his or her point of view and ways to meet attacks and defenses in life. It is not the point that counts but the way in which it is attained. This is done in the right kind of fencing, but not in the wrong kind.

Digitized by t^ooQle
177

A personality and a leader, not because one lands it over, but because one is helpful is strengthened by the right kind of fencing.

Life is very complex, hard and cruel at times. It is essential that one should learn to keep one’s poise in victory and to retreat with poise in one of the temporary defeats. It is important that one should see ahead and at the same time see the minor details. A parry here and a parry there and at the same time to remain cool, collected and alert. Correct fencing will help to develop these traits.

Is it not a delightful feeling, when one has control of every muscle, even down to the toes, and when it is alertness, accuracy and mental power that has been at work? Here is grace, poise, art— —it is beauty. And it is this that gains and retains health.

Indian Dance.

Music: "Dagger Dance” from the opera "Natoma” by Victor Herbert.

Publishers, G. Schirmer, Inc., New York.

Entrance.

The musical score is not used during the entrance of the lines. The entering movement is accompanied by a rhythmic beating of one note on the piano.

JtOOtftNCtl

Digitized by CaOOQle
178

There are four lines of girls in this dance; two long lines composed of 24 girls each and two short lines composed of 16 girls each.

Each line enters in flank rank formation from a comer of the rectangular space as indicated by the arrows in Figure I.

Entering step: Running step forward with high knee raising forward, with the body bent forward very low, and with the arms raised backward, hands closed to fists.

The two longer lines enter a little ahead of the two shorter lines in order that all may arrive in their places about the same time.

Upon arriving in their places the girls face the audience and assume a standing position [trunk erect], with the arms folded and raised high in front. This is the starting position.

Introduction

Music is played slowly.

Girls hold the starting position for 8 counts ......2	Meas.

Part I.

Each line is divided into two equal sections, the members of each section being numbered. [See Figure II].

The members of each section face toward their leader number one to form a flank line. [See Figure II].

AUDIENCE

FIG. 2

3DN3ianv

Number one of each section leads in .the direction of the arrows indicated in Figure II and the rest of the members follow in flank rank formation with the following steps:

The Indian Step consists of a step left [right] forward on the ball of the foot with a partial transfer of the weight of the body on count one, followed by a quick lowering of the heel with complete transference of the weignt [the beat]—on count two or on count “and”.

1.	With trunk bent forward and arms raised backward [fists closed] Indian step left forward, then right forward counting 1, "and”, 2, “and” ............_1	Meas.

Digitized by Google
179

2.	Raise trunk and place the fists on the chest with Indian step left forward—'3, “and”; then bend upper trunk backward, straightening arms upward [fists closed] with Indian step right forward—4,

“and” ..........................................1	Meas.

3.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 seven times .........._14	Meas.

Total ....:................................16	Meas.

Note: At the end of Part I each member has returned to his original place.

Part II

The trunk remains lowered forward thruout this part.

1.	Indian step left crossing front of right foot, left arm forward, right arm backward—1, "and”, Indian step right backward—2, “and”, Indian step left sideward—3, “and”, Indian step right crossing in front of left foot, right arm forward, left arm backward—

4,	“and”, Indian step left backward—5, “and”, Ind-dian step right sideward—6, “and”, Indian step crossing in front of right—7, “and”, Indian step

right backward—8, “and” ...................  .4	Meas.

2.	With right arm forward, left arm backward, place

left toe sideward [heel up—inverted position]—1, place left heel in same place [toe up]—“and”, repeat toe and heel placing—2, “and”, step left sideward—3, cross step right rear of left foot—“and”, step left sideward—4, beat with ball of right foot —“and” ...........................................-2	Meas.

3.	Repeat No. 2 beginning right ................2	Meas.

Total ........................................._8	Meas.

Part III

In this part the girls in each section face toward number 12 or 8 and follow number 12 or 8 in a flank rank along the lines indicated by the arrows in Figure III.



■DNiianv	.	FIQ.	3

Digitized by
180

The girls who face left begin with the right foot and those who face right begin with the left foot.

Tempo of music faster.

1.	Hop left with placing right foot forward—1, hop left and raise bent knee forward—“and”, [the trunk is bent forward arms raised backward], repeat the same for counts 2, “and”, 3, “and”, 4,

"and” ..........................................2	Meas.

NOTE: With each hop in the above steps there should be a slight forward movement.

2.	Step right forward—5, "and”, leap left forward—

6,	“and”, repeat step right forward and leap left forward—7, “and”, 8, "and”. [These steps are accompanied with a natural swinging of the arms,

the body is held in the erect position.]  ............2	Meas.

3. Repeat No. 1 and No. 2  .....................  4	Meas.

Total ..............................................  8	Meas.

NOTE: If these 8 measures are not sufficient to bring each section back to the starting place, then the same 8 measures of the music may be repeated and the steps continued.

1.	Stamp step right, [1-8 turn to right] with trunk bent forward and arms backward—1, two beats with ball of left foot front of right foot, trunk is straightened and the arms swung foreupward—

“and”, 2, face front and quick change step left sideward [catch step]— “and”, then stamp step left [1-8 turn left] trunk bent forward and arms backward—3, two beats with ball of right foot front of left foot, trunk is straightened and arms swung foreupward—“and”, 4 ..........................2	Meas.

2.	Repeat No. 1 four times .....................8	Meas.

Total ......................:..................10	Meas.

In this part the lines are divided into couples; e. g. No. 1-2, 3-4, 5-6, etc. in each form a couple. The couples start in flank line formation, partners facing each other. Each partner moves around the other as indicated in Figure IV.

Part IV.

Part V

FIG. 4

1.	Partners facing each other and with trunk bent forward and arms backward each starts to the left

Digitized by

Google
181

[passing right shoulders] and moves in a small circle executing 8 small steps with knee raising, counting 1, “and”, 2, “and”, 3, “and”, 4, “and” ..2 Meas.

2.	Facing each other stamp step left with raising right knee forward, trunk is raised with clapping hands in the forward position and immediately swinging left, arm upward and right arm downward—5, this

final position is held for counts—“and”, 6, “and” 1 Meas.

3.	Bend left knee deeply straightening right leg backward [right toe touching floor] with lowering trunk forward, arms above the head [hands touching the floor]—7, this deep knee support lying position is

held for counts—“and”,	7, “and” ..............1	Meas.

4.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 [counts 1, “and” to 6,

“and”l ........................................3	Meas

NOTE: After the last encircling each line is straightened out.

5.	Every one faces the audience assuming a standing position with the arms raised upward counts 7,

“and” .........................................1	Meas.

Total ..........................................8	Meas.

Part VI.

All facing audience.

1.	With trunk forward and arms backward three slow steps forward [sneak step] beginning left—1-3, lunge right 'forward with bending trunk forward deeply,

arms above head, hands touching floor—4 ............2	Meas.

2.	Straighten to a stand, trunk bent forward [horizon-

tal] arms above head and execute 4 slow steps backward—5-8........................................2	Meas.

3.	Standing with trunk erect and arms upward hop

left with placing right foot forward—1, hop left with raising right knee forward—“and”, repeat the above hopping and foot placing and knee raising for counts 2, “and”, 3, “and”, 4, “and” [with this hopping each individual completes a whole turn right in place] .............................  2	Meas.

4.	With lowering trunk forward and swinging arms foredownward and backward execute 4 quick running steps forward beginning right counting 5, “and”

6,	“and” ....................................  1	Meas.

5.	Leap right forward into a lunge position with left

leg backward, trunk low, arms above the head with hands touching floor—7, holding the position for counts “and”, 8, “and” ...............1	Meas.

6. The last measure of the music played with No. 5 above is repeated while all straighten to a stand with facing left about [backs to audience] and with

arms raised upward ..........................  1	Meas.

Total ................................. 9 Meas.

Digitized by

Google
182

Finish

1.	Moving toward center [away from audience] repeat

No. 1 and No. 2 of Part III ....................4	Meas.

2.	In the stand with arms raised upward execute a full turn right with 8 small scuffing steps [bouree steps] in place, counting 1, “and”, 2, “and”, 3,

“and”, 4, “and”........................................2	Meas.

3.	Fall toward center to a lying position frontways with arms above the head on the final chord of

the music..............................................1	Meas.

Total .........................................7	Meas.

COSTUME

Waist, trousers, and head band made of unbleached muslin.

Waist—1 1-2 yds.

Trousers—2 yds.

Show card colors are used to paint the waist and trousers.

Head band—3 1-2 inch strip.

This strip is folded to make a 1 1-4 inch strip double thickness, and a-bout nine colored feathers sewed into it.

Edges of muslin are tom every 3-8 of an inch to make a fringe 3 inches deep.

One of the outstanding numbers of the Demonstration Program of the Philadelphia Convention of the American Physical Education Association consisted of a group of six “Dances Representing Several Periods in American History”. The first dance in this group, the Indian Dance, appears above. The other five dances consisting of the Colonial Dance, Western Ranch Dance, Early Twentieth Century Dance, Syncopation Dance, and Modem Dance will appear in that order in subsequentrissues.

Digitized by L^OOQle
183

Touch Football Rules

Rule 1- Field

Section 1. Dimensions. It is preferable that the game be played upon a rectangular field, 360 feet in length and 160 feet in width. The lines at the ends of the field shall be End Lines. Those at the sides shall be Side Lines. The Goal Lines shall be in the field of play 10 yards from and parallel to the end lines. The space bounded by the goal lines and the side lines shall be the Field of Play. The spaces bounded by the goal lines, the end lines and the side lines shall be the End Zones. Any size field may be used depending upon the number of players and the space available.

Sec. 2. Marking. It is preferable that the field of play shall be marked at intervals of five yards with lines parallel to the goal lines. All lines shall be marked—preferably in white.

Sec. 3. Goal. When used the goal posts shall be placed' in the middle of each end line, and shall exceed 20 feet in height and be placed 18 feet 6 inches apart, with a horizontal crossbar 10 feet from the ground.

Rule 2. Ball.

[Senior.] The ball shall be made of leather [natural tanned color], enclosing a rubber bladder. It shall be inflated with a pressure of not less than 12 1-2 pounds nor more than 13 1-2 pounds and shall have the shape of a prolate spheroid—the entire surface to be convex.

The circumference of the senior ball, long axis, shall measure not less than 28 inches, nor more than 28 1-2 inches; short axis, not less than 22 inches, nor more than 22 1-2 inches; the length of the long axis shall measure not less than 11 inches, nor more than 11 1-4 inches. The weight of the ball shall be from 14 ounces to 15 ounces.

[Junior]. The committed suggests the use of 8 piece ball. The Referee shall be the sole judge as to whether the ball offered for play complies with the specifications.

Rule 3. Score.

Value of Scores. The game shall be decided by the final score at the end of four periods. The following shall be the value of plays in scoring:

Touchdown...............................6	points

Goa] from Field...............;.........3	points

The score of a forfeited game shall be 1 to 0 in favor of the offended team.

Rule 4. Definitions—General.

Sec. 1. Ball Carrier. A player who carries the ball is the ball carrier.

Sec. 2. Passer. A player who makes a forward pass is the passer.

Sec. 3. In Touch. A ball which crosses either goal line is “in touch" and may be played by a player of the team which

Digitized by kjOOQle
184

did not kick the ball. Opponents may not touch a player while behind his-own goal line.

Sec. 4. Off Side. A player is off side when any part of his person is ahead of the ball, his scrimmage or restraining line when the ball is put in play.

Sec. 5. Out of Bounds. The ball is out of bounds when either the ball or any part of the player holding the ball touches the ground, an obstruction or person on or outside of the side lines or end lines.

When a free ball touches a player any part of whose person is on or outside the side line or the end line, is out of bounds.

When a free ball [other than a kicked ball which later scores a goal] strikes the goa post or cross bar, it is out of bounds.

Sec. 6. Touchdown. A touchdown is when the ball, legally in possession of a player becomes dead, any part of it being on, above or behind the opponent’s goal line, or by completing a forward pass in the opponent’s end zone.

Sec. 7. Tripping, Blocking, Tackling. Tripping is obstructing an opponent below the knee with the hand or with that part of the obstructing player’s leg that is below the knee. Blocking and tackling are prohibited.

PENALTY—Five yards from spot of foul.

Sec. 8. Disqualified Player. A disqualified player who is banished from further participation in the game for a violation of the rules prohibiting certain kinds of misconduct or unfair play.

PENALTY—Loss of 15 yards from spot of foul.

Sec. 9. The ball is dead when a player in possession of the ball is tagged in the field of play by an opponent. Tagging is defined as touching the man with either hand on any part of the body. It is not necessary to tag with both hands. The committee feels that the officials shall be the sole judge in any questionable case.

Kicks.

Sec. 1. Kicker. A player who kicks the ball.

Sec. 2. Kick off. A kick off is the method of putting the ball in play at the opening of the first and third periods. It shall consist of a place kick, drop kick or punt from the fifty yard line [or some point behind it] of the team making the kick off. Each player shall kick in turn successively as his team kicks off.

Sec. 3. Free Kick. A free kick is where each team is restrained from advancing beyond a certain line before the ball is put in play and includes kick off. The restraining line for the kicking team on a free kick is a line parallel to the goal line through the most forward point from which the ball may be kicked.

The restraining line for the opponents is a line parallel to and 10 yards in advance of the kicking team’s restraining line.

Sec. 4. Drop Kick. A drop kick is dropping the ball to the ground and kicking it as it arises.

Digitized by AaOOQle
185

Sec! 5. Place Kick. A place kick is kicking the ball from a fixed position on the ground. The ball may be held in position by a player of the kicker's team, but must not be raised above the surface of the ground by artificial tees or mounds of earth.

Sec. 6. Punt. A punt is dropping the ball and kicking it before it touches the ground.

Sec. 7. Return Kick. A return kick is when a ball has been kicked forward, is recovered by the opponents and kicked again to the team which first kicked the ball.

Sec. 8. Goal from Field. A goal from field is kicking the ball from the field of play over the cross bar or directly over one of the goal posts of the opponent’s goal by either a drop kick or a place kick, other than a kick off, or when a ball is kicked over head and hands of the opponents standing on the goal line and hits the ground in the end zone without being caught.

Sec. 5. The ball must be put in play by a kickoff after each time it is declared dead in the field of play. The ball must be kicked from the spot where the referee declared the ball dead. Each member of the team must kick consecutively in turn.

PENALTY—For Kicking Out of Turn. The defending side shall have the choice of kicker who is to kick off.

Rule 5. The Game

A.	Length of Game. Sec. 1. The length of the game shall be sixty minutes, divided into four periods of fifteen minutes each, with intervals of one minute between the first and second periods [first half] and between the third and fourth period! [second half], during which intermissions all rules governing the playing of the game continue in force and no player shall leave the field of play or end zone, nor shall any representative of either team be allowed on the field of play or end zone.

PENALTY-Loss of 15 yards.

Sec. 2. Between the second and third periods there shall be an intermission of fifteen minutes, during which intermission play is suspended and the teams may leave the field.

Sec. 3. Before the scheduled starting time, the game may be shortened by mutual agreement of the field captains. The Referee, if he is of the opinion that there is any likelihood of the game being interfered with by darkness, may arbitrarily shorten the playing time. In either of such cases the four periods must be of equal length.

Sec. 4. During an intermission the Referee, with the consent of the two field captains may shorten the playing time of the remaining period or periods.

B.	Choice of Goal. Sec. 1. The Referee shall toss up a coin before the beginning of the game in the presence of the field captains of the opposing teams, first designating which field captain shall call. The winner of the toss shall have the choice of goal, or of kicking off, or of receiving the lack off, which choice shall not be revocable. The loser of the toss shall have the op-

Digitized by ^ooQle
186

tions which the winner does not select, and his choice shall not be revocable. At the beginning of the third period these privileges shall be reversed.

Rule 6. The Players

Sec. 1. Number of Players. It is suggested that the game be played by two teams of eleven players on each team. A field captain must be designated for each team.- Numbers may be used to designate the various players.

Rule 7. Method Of Putting The Ball In Play.

Sec. 1. The Kick-off. The opening of a game shall be a kick-off. The ball must also be put in play by a kick-off after a Goal from Field, after a Try-for-Point and at the beginning of the third period.

The restraining line for the team having the kick-off shall be its 50-yard line. The ball must be kicked off from this line or some point behind it. The kicking team, with the exception of a player holding the ball, must be in bounds and behind the ball when it is kicked. Until the ball is kicked the opponents must remain in bounds and behind a line ten yards in advance of the restraining line of the kicking team. The ball must be kicked to or beyond the opponents’ restraining line [unless it be touched by an opponent] in order to continue in play.

PENALTY—Loss of 5 yards by the offending team. Ball to be kicked off again with new restraining lines.

Sec. 2. If the ball is recovered by a player of the receiving team before it is declared dead, he may run with it, pass it backward or kick it; if the ball is recovered by a player of the kicking team, the ball is dead at the point of recovery.

Sec. 3. Kick-off Out of Bounds. If the ball goes out of bounds between the goal lines [except after being caught and fumbled by a player], it must be put in play at a point fifteen yards from where it went out of bounds. If the ball should be kicked over the goal line, no player of the team which kicked the ball may touch it until it is brought over the goal line by a member of the defending team.

Sec. 4. After the kick-off the ball remains in play until the ball is dead which is when a player in possession of the ball is tagged, goes out of bounds or drops the ball.

Sec. 5. The ball must be put in play by a kick-off after each time it is declared dead in the field of play. The ball must be. kicked from the spot where the referee declared the ball dead. Each member of the team must kick consecutively in turn.

PENALTY—For Kicking Out of Turn. The defending side shall have the choice of lacker who is to kick-off.

Rule 8. Playing The Game.

Sec. 1. Backward Pass and Fumble. A player may at any time pass [hand or throw] the ball in any direction and any other player of his team may catch such a pass, or recover the ball if muffed or fumbled, and may run with it, pass it backward or kick it.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
187

If the team in possession of the ball makes a backward pass or fumbles it and the ball after striking the ground is recovered by an opponent, it is dead at the point of recovery and may not be advanced. If the ball is recovered before striking the ground, it may be advanced.

Sec. 2. Forward Pas*. A forward pass may be made at any time when a team has possession of the ball. There is no requirement for the passer being in any special position. After an incompleted forward pass the ball is dead at the spot from which the ball is passed and must be put in play by a kick-off.

Sec. 3. Touchdown. The principal score of the game. A touchdown is legally carrying the ball on, above or across the opponent’s goal line or by completing a forward pass in the opponent’s end zone.

Sec. 4. Goal from Field. If on a place kick the ball passes over the crossbar or directly over one of the goal posts, or if after being kicked it strikes an opponent [either on the field of play or in the end zone] and then passes over the crossbar or one of the goal posts, it shall be a goal. If there are no goal posts, a drop kick or place kick going over the goal line at a height greater than the head and hands of an opponent standing on the goal line, shall be a goal, if.it strikes in the end zone without being caught.

Rule 9. Officials—Their Jurisdiction And Duties

Sec. 1. General. The officials of the game shall be a Referee and an Umpire. All officials have concurrent jurisdiction over fouls committed by players or other and shall report these to the Referee, who shall be final judge if there is a conflict of opinion or testimony and shall enforce the proper penalties.

All officials are expected to co-operate in the conduct of the game and the enforcement oi the rules.

Field captains only may appeal to the Referee and then solely on questions of' interpretation of the rules. They are not allowed to question the jurisdiction of any particular official or to argue question of fact.

Sec. 2. Referee. The Referee shall have general oversight and control of the game. He shall be sole authority for the score, sole judge of forfeiture of the game under the rules and his decision upon all matters not specifically placed under the jurisdiction of other officials shall be final. Shall use a whistle.

It is the duty of the Referee to see that the bail is properly put in play and to judge of its position and progress.

Prior to each kick-off and in every instance when time has been called, the Referee shall make sure that the other officials are prepared and he shall then learn from each field captain that his team is ready before allowing the ball to be put in play.

Sec. 3. Umpire. The Umpire shall have primary jurisdiction over the conduct and positions of the players.

He shall use a horn when indicating that a foul has been committed, but play shall continue until the ball has been declared dead by the Referee.—Rules Copyrighted for Touch Football Association.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
188

Health Education Notes

Respiratory Measurements*—Respiratory measurements were made on a group of 75 medical students and on 13 football players in active training. As a result of these measurements the following conclusions were drawn:

1.	“Heavy” smoking [20 or more cigarettes a day] for several years does not significantly diminish the respiratory efficiency in the performance of mild and moderately severe exercise.

2.	Athletic individuals are not much more efficient than sedentary persons in the performance of mild exertion, but are considerably more efficient in carrying out moderately severe exercise.

3.	Individuals who have once been highly trained, remain extremely efficient in their breathing for a number of years after giving up active training, provided they take fairiy regular exercise.—Turley, Harrison [Am. J. be.].

Tonsils.—An incidental fact of interest has come to light in the preliminary stages to a study of the school medical examination program now under way in New York City under the auspices of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. In the course of obtaining tonsil histories and inspecting the throats of all the eleven year old children in 11 schools of Manhattan it appears that 60 per cent of these children have had their tonsils removed. This picture among 1160 children is merely a sampling of Manhattan schools and by no means represents sampling of the city as a whole. The number of children interviewed in each school ranged from 65 to 184.

Another point of interest is that, according to the testimony of the children, an appreciable number of the tonsillectomies— 40 per cent—were performed before the children entered school. Another way of stating this is that whereas 60 per cent of this group of children had lost their tonsils before their twelfth year, it appears that almost a quarter of the group had already lost them before their sixth year.

It would be interesting to learn whether these proportions are general over the country and how they vary for children of different ages- If it did prove true that as many as half of our school children had had their tonsils removed before reaching their twelfth birthday it provides a sharp contrast to a statement in the British publication, “The Medical Officer,” London, of April 30, 1932, which reads [Page 174]:

“We do not deny that there are a number of children for whom removal of tonsils is desirable. We guess this number to be about 4 per cent.”

There has been a decrease in leprosy in practically every part of the world where money and authority are available to carry out what is known scientifically.

Digitized by LjOOQle
189

Seasonal incidence of whooping cough is low during the last foui months of the year.

Texas is the only state outside the Death Registration Area.

The Minister of Health in England has set up a comnittee to: “Examine and report on the information already available regarding the hereditary transmission and other causes of mental disorders and deficiencies; to consider the value of sterilization as a preventive measure, having regard to its physical, psychological and social effects, and the experience of legislation in other countries permitting it; and to suggest what further inquiries might usefully be undertaken in this connection ”

Smallpox in the U. S. and Canada*—Reports from 43 states, the District of Columbia, and 8 Canadian provinces indicate a decided decrease in the prevalence of smallpox in these areas during 1931.

Vital Statistics for Italy.—Preliminary returns for 1930 show an increased birth rate and a decreased death rate as compared with 1929.

An examination of the eyes of the 200 savage African tribesmen used in a recent film showed that the respective percentages of near sightedness, far-sightedness, myopia, and other common eye defects were almost the same as the averages for men and women in the United States,—showing that the human eye has a natural tendency to imperfection. —American Journal of Public' Health.

An excellent comprehensive article on ringworm funguses including experimental methods of combatting them was printed in the September, 1932, issue of the American Journal of Public Health.

W. M. Gafafer, in American Journal Hygiene, July 1932, reports that a study has shown no significant difference in the number or severity of colds suffered by a group of persons who slept with windows only partially open as compared with another group of fresh air enthusiasts who maintained wide open windows. The same was true of groups of persons that exercised outdoors less than 8 and more than 8 hours per week in summer and less than 4 and more than 4 in winter.

Italy’s Courses in Child Hygiene. The National Children’s Bureau of Italy has ordered its provincial branches to organize popular courses on maternal and infant hygiene for girls of 16 to 18 years, according to Maternity ed Infanzia, of Rome. The courses are to be given preferably in day nurseries and similar child welfare institutions, so that the girls may have practical

Digitized by
190

training as well as theoretical instruction.— N.	Children’s

Bureau, Washington, D. C.

Medical Conditions in Soviet Russia. In Russia disease is no longer a private and personal matter. Since every inhabitant is a social and economic unit, disease is looked upon as harmful to the State, and restoration of the sick to health, the prevention of disease, and the cultivation of positive health are regarded as State responsibilities. In other words, Soviet Russia is witnessing, for the first time, the efforts of a thorough-going State medicine.

Not that private practice has been entirely abolished in Soviet Russia, for though every physician is required to work 6 hours daily for the State, he may, after that work has been done, treat private patients and be paid for such treatment if any desire him.

Appendicitis.—Dr. Frank Kells Boland of Atlanta re-emphasized the fact that purgatives and delayed operations are the outstanding causes of death from appendicitis. More men have the disease than women. More men die from it than women. Negroes show comparatively few cases of appendicitis until they abandon simple foods and eat more meat, sugar and “things that have been polished, pickled, frozen, thawed and sterilized." Some whites have learned not to take a physic for every stomachache, observed Dr. Boland. But not many Negroes. Favorite purgatives of Negroes are castor oil and epsom salts.—A.	A.

at New Orleans—“Time".

Cost of Medicine and Drugs.—The total expenditure in the United States on medicine and drugs is about $715,000,000 which constitutes about 20 per cent of the annual bill for sickness. Twenty-three per cent is purchased across drug store counters and from grocery stores or what-nots for remedies which are not secret, such as castor oil and aspirin. The most astounding finding is that more than 50 per cent is annually spent for “patent medicines” of secret composition, most of which are worthless.—No. Carolina Health Bulletin.

News Notes and Comments

In its final report, the New York Commission on Ventilation which has been almost continually in operation for 18 years, states that “the Commission believes that the evidence un-mistakabiy leads to the conclusion that the window-gravity method of ventilation for school classrooms [in the absence of specific unfavorable conditions] is as satisfactory as the fan system and is generally more satisfactory”. Further, that “the present laws and regulations requiring a supply of 30 cubic feet of air per pupil per minute in the schoolroom have no justification

Digitized by Google
191

in theory; and, in practice, may involve a serious handicap to progress in the art of school ventilation”.

THE FIVE AND TEN YEAR OBJECTIVES FOR ILLINOIS

Louis Kulcinsld, State Supervisor of Physical Education in Illinois, is making a five and ten year plan for physical education.

Relative to the five year objectives that they have met, Illinois has given due recognition to physical education as part of the educational program as shown by the results of a survey made of present conditions and practices.

1.	This survey showed that many schools have four year programs of not less than two periods a week and many as nigh as three, four and five periods. Many schools schedule physical education classes first in the students’ program. Many schools have full time physical education directors.

2.	A state physical education association has been organized. It is further hoped that this will be tied up with the state teachers association so that sectional physical education meetings can be held at the annual division meetings, and further tie this up with the county institutes and local meetings.

3.	Teachers colleges and the University have organized four year majors and minors in physical and health education.

4.	A definite course of study for the high school physical education program is about to be published.

5.	County grade school play days have been inaugurated, several of which are taking place this spring, with requests for help in organizing a program from several other counties.

Some of the ten year objectives which they are working toward and which indicate realization before the end of that period are:

1.	Point systems for school letters, which includes five fields of education—scholastic, interscholastic athletics or intramurals, physical and health education, extra-curricular activities and leadership. These are open to any boy or girl who earns a definite number of points in each field.

2.	University entrance credit granted for high school physical education, which is approved by the State Department of Public Instruction, [one of fifteen].

3.	The organization of the high school as a community recreation center, which provides for adult recreation and summer playgrounds.

4.	Encouraging colleges to organize their required physical education work on a teacher preparation basis so that the students graduating may be qualified part time teachers of physical education when they are in the small high schools.

5.	The introduction of modified Sigma Delta Psi events for a state certificate of achievement.

6.	The adoption of the National Physical Education Achievement standards for local certificates of achievement.

'	National	Physical Education Service

Digitized by Google
192

THE SINUSES.

In the majority of cases of sinus trouble the infection takes place by extension from the nasopharynx and it is obviously important that this area be kept in healthy condition. The tympanic cavity, antrum and mastoid cells are included as an accessory sinus which connects with the pharynx by the Eustachian tube. Becker, in the	Ear,	Nose	and Throat

Monthly, April, 1931, brings out these points and stresses the fact that normal condition of the sinuses depends upon their proper ventilation and drainage. In cases occurring in children or in those of adults, where no permanent pathologic changes have taken place in the mucous membranes, non-surgical treatment is usually sufficient and is based upon suction, irrigation, inflation, electrotherapy and phototherapy, together with regulation of diet and hygiene and the use of drugs, vaccines, etc. Suction cleans away the discharge and gives rise to beneficial hyperemia. AutosuCtion, performed by the patient compressing his nose and then drawing air into the lungs, which takes the air from the nasopharynx, is of value in diagnosis in those cases where pus may be present but is not visible; this procedure tends to drain the sinuses and bring the secretion into view. Drugs are used for antiseptic action and vasoconstriction; cocain, adrenalin and ephedrin are good to obtain the latter effect and the various silver preparations are the best antiseptics. Shrinkage of the swollen mucous membranes by the vasoconstrictors accomplishes drainage and mentalation while sedative and decongestive effect is brought about by the silver preparations.—Amer. Med,

Germicidal Action of Soaps.—Soaps are strongly bactericidal against pneumococci, streptococci, meningococci, gonococci, diphtheria bacilli, influenza bacilli and Spirochaeta pallida. Their activity against organisms compares favorably with that of many of the recently synthesized chemicals. When properly used for cleaning the hands or for the washing of eating utensils, soaps are undoubtedly potent factors in preventing the spread of diseases due to these organisms. The action of soaps as germicides is, however, limited by the fact that they do not destroy staphylococci and typhoid bacilli.— John E.WaUer, M.D., J. A. M. A.

FOREIGN NOTES.

In a few of the larger cities of India a beginning has been made with public playgrounds. Calcutta. Bombay, and Madras are experimenting with playgrounds. In the newer cities adequate facilities, ranging in size from an acre to twenty acres have been set apart for play spaces. But the other cities where no thought was given for future development, it is very hard to find land for a reasonably large play area.	*

Digitized by

Google