MIND AND BODY

Vol. 27	SEPTEMBER-OCTOBER 1920	No.	291

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E.’Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

TO CELEBRATE THE 300th ANNIVERSARY OF AMERICA’S

ORIGIN.

The year 1920 is doubly significant, historically. It marks the 300th anniversary of two important events which led to the founding of the Republic of the United States of America. One is the signing of the Mayflower Compact and the landing of the Pilgrims; and the other is the meeting of the first American legislative assembly.

On November n, 1620, in the cabin of the Mayflower, a tiny bark lying oflF the Massachusetts coast, a little band of liberty-loving men, from “Brit-tania,” entered into what history has styled the Mayflower Compact. This agreement bound the 41 adult males in the ship’s company into a civil body politic for the better ordering, preserving, and furthering of their mutual ends. And it provided for such just and equal laws and offices as should be necessary for the general good of the colony.

Ten days later, so records Dr. Charles W. Eliot’s inscription on the Pilgrim Memorial Monument at Provincetown, Mass., “the Mayflower, carrying 102 passengers, men and women and children, cast anchor in this harbor 67 days from Plymouth, England.

‘/This body politic, established and maintained on this bleak and barren edge of a vast wilderness, a state without a king or a noble, a church without a bishop or a priest, a democratic commonwealth, the members of which

Digitized by (^.ooQle
21©

were straitly tied to all care of each other’s good, and of the whole by every one.

“With long-suffering devotion and sober resolution they illustrated for the first time in history the principles of civil and religious liberty and the practice of a genuine democracy.”

Meantime, uninformed of the Pilgrims, fellow-colonists of Captain John Smith had met at “James City” (Jamestown), Virginia for the first American Legislative Assembly. On July 30, 1619, they had thus broken ground for the foundation of the present democratic form of government in the United States.

This year (in 1920) these events are being commemorated in the United States, in England and in Holland. In August, the origin of the Pilgrim movement was celebrated in England. And early in September, meetings were held in Holland in memory of the Pilgrims’ sojourn in that country.

In September, a “second Mayflower ’ set sail from old Southampton, England, to follow to the American shore the path taken by the original Mayflower. (But this second Mayflower is quite modern, and therefore much more seaworthy than her smaller predecessor.)

This boat, carrying many prominent people of England, Holland and the United States, will anchor in Provincetown Harbor in late September. Its arrival will perhaps mark the crowning dramatic episode of the entire Tercentenary celebrations.

These events will not be celebrated in the United States by the citizens of Massachusetts and Virginia alone. Nor solely by the New England and South Atlantic states. Communities throughout America are planning to take this opportunity to review the “foundation upon which the United States rests, — and to re-emphasize those principles which these ancestors established — and which their sons, their followers, and their followers’ sons have handed down to us through our form of representative government.

America is appropriating, from national and state treasuries, hundreds of thousands of dollars to be used in plans for the commemoration. One plan is to erect, overlooking Plymouth harbor, a colossal statue of Massasoit, the Indian chief who befriended the Puritan pioneer. Another is to set the Plymouth Rock, which in 1741 was raised above the tide, in its original position.

Seventy American cities, including New York, Chicago and Boston have started plans for their celebrations of the Tercentenary. The Sulgrave Institution and the American Mayflower Council have been active in coordinating these plans.

Community Service (Incorporated), One Madison Avenue, New York, has drawn up suggestions for the use of the communities planning to celebrate. These have been distributed for the use of schools, churches, clubs and general community groups throughout the United States and her territories. By writing to Community Service at the above address, individuals can secure valuable information and counsel regarding suitable plays, pageants, tableaux, recitations, ceremonials and music su table for use in their communities.

Digitized by CjOOQle
211

THE EVOLUTION OF PHYSICAL TRAINING AS A FACTOR IN HEALTH AND EDUCATION: WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO

SWIMMING.*

BY WILLIAM H. THALER, PH. G., M. D.

Inspector of Hygiene—St. Louis Board of Education.

Properly analyzed a consideration of the evolution of any tophe, should date back from the most remote period of history; but, since this would, apropos our subject, take us to the stone age, when man is said to have obtained his food and a m'ate by virtue of the fact that he could wield a huge stone carved into what we today term a “big stick,” it must be evident that we can do no better than to consider the period when Rome and ‘Greece were ascending to the zenith of their glory; both in art and military conquest.	j

Here wc find the tendency of the age replete with efforts to attain physical perfection. If we analyze the art of Greece, we find that the object that is sought by the sculptor, was nearly always physical perfection rather than sheer beauty. Likewise the paintings evolved by the Roman school depict the true form rather than exaggerated aesthetics. The Spartan mother leaves her poorly developed infant to perish in the open while she devotes the best part of her life to weaning and nurturing the specimen of manhood that shows promise of becoming a heroic warrior for the liberty of Sparta. At this early period of the world’s history, however, we find that the development of the human body was persisted in for one purpose only; and that was as above suggested, for utilizing the force of muscular power as an agent in war. The recent world cataclysm has shown that Germany had not advanced very far from this policy through the efforts of her Junkers.

We next enter the chivalric period when knighthood was in full sway; and here we find that man had attained such extreme physical development that he utilized a great part of it for the purpose of encumbering himself with a ponderous suit of armor when engaged in battle. Certain it te, that one would have great difficulty in discovering in our metropolitan centres many individuals who could don one of these preposterously heavy accoutrements, least of all, to give fight with one on his body. As we pass on, however, through the various periods of transition in the world’s history, we find that man shows a tendency to dispose of the heavy defensive suit of armor, and begins to depend more upon the agility of his bare muscle power and the quickness of perception accorded by an alert brain. In other words, man begins to recognize that the mere development of muscle is not nearly so effective in warfare as when aided and abetted by co-ordinated nerve power. So, we then discover him gradually shedding his accoutrements of defense until he relies on nothing but the “trusty” sword at his side, and perhaps a pistol or two in his holster. Today, we have evidently reached the limit of the transition, for, on brief analysis, it is found that mankind in the aggregate is bending all its efforts toward living by its wits, and is inventing

* Address delivered before a meeting of Physical Directors at St. Louis, Mo. March 20, 1920.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
212

all sorts of machinery to take care of the physical energy necessary for the demands of modernity.

It is not exaggerating therefore, to state that at no time in the world’s history was there such great need to utilize systematic physical exercise as at the present period. Also, there was hardly a period in the past, when on account of the intense struggle for existence which is a concomitant feature of our present-day life, when there was greater need for relaxation; a factor that goes hand-in-hand with properly regulated physical work of a systematic nature, in which is given due credence to the philosophy and psychology of play; a branch of physical education which has, in the pa$t, unfortunately' not received the proper emphasis. The ancient Greeks and Romans recognized the value of sport as an adjunct of physical development; a fact which no doubt imbued the solid phalanx of Caesar’s time, and the armored knight of Europe, with the chivalry and fearlessness* of death which characterized all their encounters.

In the past, then, we note all efforts being expended to develop brawn, whuv«s today, man is straining every effort to develop the mental fibre within him, that he may outwit his neighbor or competitor in order that he may reach the much longed for period when he may “retire” and take things “easy.” The great problem, then, that confronts the Medical and Educational worlds today, is to obtain the desirable balance betwixt body and mind, or as our forefathers put it, “mens sana in corpore sano." It is the writer’s observation as a physician and schoolman, that few indeed are the instances to be noted where one finds an extraordinarily developed brain, with an equal ratio of physical energy, or vice versa. But luckily enough, a neglected body responds only too well to the efforts expended toward compensating for past faults, accrued in a constant attempt to develop nerve and abandon muscle and tendon.

Up to the eighteenth century there seems to have been little thought of utilizing systematic physical training for educational purposes, or to overcome physical irregularities. Military requirements seem to have held full sway in this regard. The first educational reformer who seems to have recognized in physical culture a valuable asset to educational endeavors was Basedow, who gave systematic physical training a place on his program, which was however purely optional. This was in 1774 in Dessau, a German province of Anhalt; and he was instrumental in bringing to light one of the early pioneers in physical education, J. C. F. GutsMuths.

One of the noteworthy facts which stands out pre-eminently in the evolution of physical education, is the fact that practically all of the men who blazed the trail for modern endeavors in this line of work were highly intellectual characters, firmly imbued with the gospel of their work, and in many instances intimately bound up with the history of their native land. Surely, no scientific pursuit has produced men of whom there is greater reason to be proud than those who persistently expounded the lessons involved in the realm of systematic physical training; and who, at the price of many discouragements and frequently bitter opposition coupled with gross indifference, paved the way for the wonderful systems of health-producing and man-making exercises in medicine and education.

GutsMuths wrote several works on gymnastics, and, what is particularly interesting to note, a manual on swimming, in 1798, making it obvious that the gross neglect which swimming has suffered as an exercise and a useful
213

asset in time of danger was at least not entirely due to want of proper instruction. All exercises were at that time taken in the open and were viewed by many who came to learn and who in turn carried to their vicinities the gospel of physical education.

To Denmark, however, belongs the credit for being the first country to give physical education its proper prestige by placing it upon the school program as a compulsory part of the course of study. This was accomplished largely through the efforts of Franz Nachtegall. In 1814 a decree was passed under royal sanction providing that every school in Denmark should establish grounds and obtain apparatus for gymnastics; and that wherever possible, the children should receive one hour of gymnastics -:ach day in addition to the regular schedule. Our attention is next diverted to Sweden, where gymnastics has been specialized into three great divisions; military, educational and medical. The man whose name is saliently associated with physical education endeavors in Sweden in pioneer days is P. H. Ling. It is interesting to note that, although Sweden was at this time in desperate straits on account of being harassed continually by greedy and militant neighbors, she did not utilize physical training for militaristic purposes only, but interested herself in other branches that would aid in the pursuit of civic welfare as well. Like Nachtegall, Ling received royal favors in the form of decorations and other privileges of a more utilitarian character.

We next return to Germany, where we find serious efforts being put forth to give due credit to physical training as a national pursuit for the proper utilization in school and military endeavors. The name most intimately connected with this work in the early parf of the 18th century is that of the noted character, F. L. Jahn, who is considered by many to have been the guiding spirit which fostered the inception of the Turnverein societies in Germany and finally throughout the entire civilized world. Jahn was the exponent of the out-of-door type of physical training and taught his pupils in a tract of open meadow land, termed the Hasenhcide. Jahn was one of those patriotic characters, patriarchal in type and stature, whose opinions were of the radical type bordering on fanaticism; a fact which caused him to come into constant clashes with the authorities. He was, however, a firm exponent of physical training and by his persistent devotion to its cause succeeded in arousing interest in its behalf. His memory has been perpetuated by monuments throughout the German Empire.

In Switzerland, the art of physical training was expounded by P. H. Clias. He was also instrumental in introducing the work i*to England, where he was made the first superintendent of physical training in the royal military and naval schools. After many efforts which, proved unavailing, he finally introduced a system of medical gymnastics into France, at Besan-con> and in 1844 was made superintendent of gymnastic instruction in the elementary schools of Paris. He returned however to Switzerland, the French Revolution having interfered with his endeavors in France.

To Adolf Spiess of Germany belongs the credit for firmly establishing physical training as a part of the school curriculum throughout the German Empire. It was kp. who fought persistently for the principle that all instructors in the art of physical training be educators by profession, and that the school should control the entire physical and mental well being of the school child. He advocated unity and conformity of purpose in his system of training and did much to develop the indoor type of physical training.

Digitized by LjOOQle
214

He was one of the first to see the benefit of rhythmic interpretation of physical movements, due, no doubt, to his fondness for music. Strangely enough, in this country physical training men are just beginning to realize the value of rhythm as a useful and interesting adjunct to systematic physical training, particularly in the schools; and one of the most beautiful sights one may observe around a modern progressive public school, is a group of school girls, interpreting some folk dance while taking their usual physical exercises on the school program.

The first evidence of interest for systematic physical training in the United States appears in 1825-6 when three gymnasia of the out-of-door type were instituted through the efforts of three university graduates from Germany, Follen, Beck and Lieber. They were refugees seeking to escape the militaristic program of the Junkers. These three schools were laid out at Northhampton, Cambridge and Boston, all in Massachusetts. The need for physical as well as moral education was fast being recognized, and in the third and fourth decades of the 19th century we observe four distinct systems of physical training extant; the drill and discipline of the military academy, the Jahn gymnastics, manual labor on the farm or in the shop, and calisthenics for girls and women. Each system had its advocates and faddists, but no one of the systems won permanent recognition in a general capacity.

The recent names in the literature are no doubt sufficiently familiar to my audience to warrant merely mentioning them. Dio Lewis was one of those who sought to introduce a “new system of gymnastics for women and children/’ and was for a long while successful in keeping the interest of the public. Other prominent names connected with the famous universities and colleges of the northeast, are those of Dr. Edw. Hitchcock Dr. Dudley Allen Sargent, Dr. Edward M. Hartwell and more recently Robert J. Roberts and Luther H. Gulick. At the great conference held in Boston, in 1889 in the interest of physical training one of the noteworthy features was the emphasizing of the item of health in connection with physical training. The leading paper to be read on this occasion was presented by the noted physician and biologist, Dr. Hartwell. One of the most noteworthy exponents of physical training in this country has been the splendid organization known as the Y. M. C. A. In 1869, 18 years after its inception into American life, the first Association buildings to contain gymnasia were dedicated at San Francisco and New York. Today with their sacred symbol of the triangle encasing the motto, “Spirit, Body and Mind,” the Y. M. C. A of America may proudly boast of the record which they have attained in this line of endeavor.

Another organization of noteworthy prestige is this country, has been the American Gymnastic Union, which has for over seventy years, disseminated the principles underlying advanced physical education.

The development of gymnastics in this country has indeed been phenomenal. It is a poorly equipped physician indeed who does not today concede the immense value of systematic physical training as «« adjunct to his therapeutic knowledge; particularly when one cons^rs the intensely ’ unnatural mode of present-day living. It is no* exaggerating to state that most of our present-day. ailments arise from lack of proper, systematic exercises; and to meet these outgrowth» of a sedentary method of living, thpre k no better remedy than systematic physical training. There is no
215

doubt but that the great American affection today is constipation, brought on mainly through improper dieting and lack of systematic physical train-ingi The writer happened to be a pharmacist for twelve years before studying medicine, and if all the pills and medicines passed over the counter by him to overcome the above mentioned ailment are any index at all, then the above statement is certainly based on fact. Add to this the auto-toxemic conditions resulting from constipation and we have the reason for the high strung psychology of our up-to-date American, ascending to the heights of social and commercial prestige, only to slip and fall by the wayside, unable to stand the strain. For these cases of so-called nervous prostration there is no better panacea than properly prescribed systematic physical exercises, begun lightly at first, to be increased as conditions suggest.

Your committee has suggested that I make special reference to swimming from the viewpoint of health. This I proceed to do with especial delight, since the revelations which the wonderful art of swimming has manifested to me in the few years of my experience have caused me to wonder exceedingly why swimming has been so generally neglected heretofore. I had gone along up to the age of thirty-one without knowing any more of water than simply that it was “wet.” While out with a party one day at a swimming resort there came upon me the suaden realization thajt I was cutting but a poor picture indeed, standing by and looking on, while all the others were making merry and considering me with a sympathetic attitude. I then and there determined that this was to be no more; and forthwith on my return, I hastened for an interview with the instructor at our local Y. M* C. A., who after regarding me in a somewhat critical attitude and noting my sincerity and fixity of purpose, suggested that, “it could be done;” and thanks to an excellent instructor and persistency on the writer’s part, the latter accomplished the art in a comparatively short time.

For the past three years, I have been a close student of swimming, its possibilities and drawbacks, and offer the following remarks for what they are worth, with the assurance that they are not tempered with enthusiasm but based solely on logical deduction and calm analysis. No doubt one of the greatest misconceptions of swimming has arisen from the fact that the only information the average person receives of this art, is from the circumstances attendant upon a drowning with its concomitant features of horror duly colored to make an impression in the newspaper. Another obstacle has been the lack of proper facilities for teaching swimming, and the poor management that has occurred at some places where pools are located.

Physicians have in the past been too prone to condemn swimming on account of unsanitary pools, but this should no longer be a drawback as in most localities the pools are under Health Board inspection. Some physicians have peculiar ideas anent swimming 4s a human attainment. The writer was recently informed by a patient, that on visiting an ear specialist for an ear drum that had presumably been injured in the water, the doctor remarked, “young man, you should not go swimming; for if God had intended you to swim, he would have fitted you up with gills”. It must be obvious then, that another of the salient problems confronting the physical education world, is the dissemination of proper information anent what is undoubtedly one of the finest branches of the physical training system.

Swimming is superior to the average systematic physical workout for
216

the following reasons:	In	the	first	place,	the swimmer is buoyed up by a

fluid having sufficient gravity to float the individual, whereas, when working in the atmosphere on the ground, a great deal of energy is wasted by overresistance to the air which gives no return to the muscle that is being activated; in other words, a great deal of energy is wasted in calculating the proper amount of force and co-ordination of muscle and nerve power to reach the desired result, whether this be a jump, a mere limited movement, or in throwing a ball. I refer of course to the trained swimmer in the above comparison, for one has but to view a novitiate in swimming for the first time, to see one grand sight of enormous waste of energy. Through this very factor of being buoyed up on the water, comes the wonderful psychological eflfect of relaxation which is such an essential unit in the tense existence of the active person engaged in the commercial world.

Swimming, once it has been accomplished properly, may be indulged in with such ease and sense of play that it leaves no excuse to the fellow who is always pleading the strenuosity of floor work in the gymnasium. Swimming, to my mind, meets all the requirements that anyone may expect from a recreative and healthful indulgence. There is no other exercise that will produce the supple and pliant muscles attained through systematic swimming; and I hasten to add, that according to my observation, it is not the exercise that should be recommended as a fat reducer, since it is very doubtful whether swimming actually accomplishes this difficult feat. The strenuous exercises of the hand ball court and gymnasium floor are far better adapted for the letter purpose. Without desiring in any way to disparage the other variety of exercises, it is safe to assert that most exercises, particularly if overdone, fill the blood with the poison of fatigue, and it is a well known fact that due to this phenomena, it is difficult for certain types of individuals to sleep well after partaking of physical work of a systematic nature, whereas swimming may always be relied on to produce a soothing and tonic effect on the most highly organized nervous system.

The brain of a good swimmer is necessarily well co-ordinated, so that it is logical to deduce that he will have a good mental poise, meet sudden situations with better and sounder judgment than the non-swimmer; in fact, a well balanced mental apparatus. One of the phases of the native of the Orient which we Americans are so wont to admire, is their wonderful stoicism. This they claim to have achieved through the process of deep breathing; and if any exercise is calculated to develop this practice, then swimming certainly obtains first choice as a splendid producer of deep breathing of an automatic nature. The writer hopes that in the future the advantages of swimming will be taken note of, in a much more attentive way than heretofore by the physical directors of public school systems; and there is no reason why there should not be adopted for this purpose the slogan, “a pool in every school”.

I feel that I could go on almost indefinitely citing instances for the urgent need of physical training today, and particularly swimming; but I do not desire to make my paper too lenghty, therefore I shall conclude with the following deductions. There is no denying the fact that the physical education world in America has had poor press agents. I do not desire to become critical except from a logical base, but it is soon evident, on analysis, that you physical education folks have permitted others to do the boosting‘ for you, while you have simply been content to go ahead in the line of duty.
217

There are, as I see it, many problems confronting the physical education world today beside those above mentioned. These are the days of organization, and unless I am seriously mistaken, there is no very' strong evidence that the local, state and national associations are unusually alive to these problems.

The recent world cataclysm has shown that a great portion of the manhood of America was physically defective, due to being steeped in alcohol, drugs, venereal diseases and through lack of school medical inspection. Our Government is today making heroic efforts to clean up the effects of the negligence of the past and to prevent recurrence in the future. A man may be cured of the dope or booze habit, and of venereal diseases, but man is so constructed that even with the use of heroic will power, there is also necessary a substitute; you have that substitute in the shape of systematic physical training. Will the physical education world prove equal to the demands of the present and future and bring home to the great American public the fact that it must indulge in systematic physical exercises, if it would enjoy life and attain more life in abundance? That, my friends, is for the very near future to answer.

HOW TO MAKE THE PHYSICAL DIRECTOR’S WORK MORE POPULAR WITH THE TEACHER.

BY HOWARD G. HAWKES, BIWABIC, MINNESOTA.

This article was written because of complaints the author has heard public school teachers make regarding their school physical directors.

The big question to be answered is:	Do we give the teacher any ‘con-

sideration when we are arranging our class work?

Here are the two general conditions under which we are called upon to do our work, either in a gymnasium where we are usually allowed 30 to 40 min. for a class, or in the class-room where we are usually allowed 10 or 15 min.

When taking up the day’s order in the gymnasium we generally begin with marching and end the class with games. Are games conducive to good order in the school room? The game is supposed to make the child relax and if he does not we have failed in our purpose and if he does we send him back to his room hilarious and out of order. He goes to the room unsupervised and upon arriving at the room the teacher has all the diciplining to do. Should she? Marching is considered disciplinary in itself if conducted properly and because of this I think that we should have a period of marching at the end of the class as well as at the beginning. Following out this theory I found this program proved very satisfactory.

For a 30 Minutes Period.

3 min. Marching.

6 min. Calisthenics.

8 min. Apparatus.

8 min. Games.

5 min. Marching.

Now, instead of sending the child to the teacher as soon as the game is ovir, he falls in for his 5 min. marching. Altho this is not as pleasant for the physical director many times, it gets the children in hand before they

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
218

return to their rooms where the teacher would have to try and do the same thing with arithmetic or some other study as interesting.

When we have the children in their rooms, many times we do not have the space for marching so we can only have calisthenics, ending them with some vigorous exercise which the children become enthused over and then we leave. This again forces the hard part onto the teacher, and I have found that if we work up to these kind of exercises we should gradually work back to exercises that are less exciting, leaving the child in a more responsive mood.

Many times a physical director thinks he must say funny things while conducting the class, to ‘‘keep in with the kids” as they say.

I remember one school I worked in, my predecesor upon entering a room would say “Good morning my little frogs” and I found the least respect in that whole school that I have ever found in any community. A physical director must demand just as much respect in the school-room as any special teacher would, because his work is just as important and is of such a nature that he must have immediate response, and he must never lose control for a minute.

The teacher expects you to co-operate with her and I have always found them ready to help in any way. Wherever I have used this method of class work the teachers have heartily endorsed it, and in the end it does not make your work any harder.

PLAN OF INFORMAL GYMNASTICS.

For First Grade, With Outline of Work for September and October.

BY GERTRUDE LEFLER BRAMAN, QUEENS VILLAGE, NEW YORK.

Until school claims the child he has alternated play with rest, and probably has taken a nap after the noon meal, so in trying to make the school life as near as possible the world the child knows, we break up our day’s program with some activity which relieves the cramped muscles and the nervous strain.

In large city systems after each half hour period the windows are opened, the class stands, stretches, relaxes, breathes in the fresh air, and takes gymnastics which favor health, vigor, development and organic soundness.

The gymnastic material best suited to children under eight years of age is informal in character, and consists of story gymnastics, song plays, games, rhythms, folk dances, marching songs, mimetics, dramatized stories, and imaginary plays. We may plan to give up two minutes at 9:30 and 10:30 in the morning, and at 1:30 in the afternoon. At 10 and 11 A. M. the children may helpfully spend five minutes in psycho-motor and neuromuscular work, and the same at 2 in the afternoon. In the 1st and 2nd grades dismissal occurs at 11:30 forenoon and at 2:30 in the afternoon.

The first thing that we strive to do is to have the children play together in groups, to curb the too aggressive and to encourage the timid, to foster the social instinct.

During these periods notice the ones who wish to lead all the work, and to these a little inhibition may prove wholesome, for these need leader-

Digitized by CjOOQle
219

ship less than the others. The diffident child will need tactful handling; a policy of watchful waiting often succeeds better than urging. There are always some shy children who refuse to play, and it may be well to let them watch for a few days until they join the others of their own free will; the diffident ones go through a certain readjustment that takes time.

In every new class we have problems; the “only” child, the “sulky” child, the one who stutters and stammers, the one with nervous ticks, and the motor dullards,—these we study and when they have had a medical inspection we can often trace the cause and know the kind of delicate handling or suggestion that will help; often a parent will be glad of a teapher’s knowledge of the causes of these nervous handicaps, and will help her develop in her child unselfishness, self confidence and self control; they may be misinterpreted by the parents as “badness” instead of danger signals showing need of special attention.

*The children who enter school are erect unless there has been a serious illness, and if we give them the right kind and amount of exercise we can keep the muscles which hold the body erect, strong and supple; we can counteract the evils of sitting by corrective work, informally given in the spirit of play; we can give the lungs all the work they need and strengthen the heart if we employ all the natural movements, running, jumping, hopping, skipping, hanging, vaulting, leaping, etc.

In the German system of physical training, the stress was upon muscles, while the Swedish system taught us to use formal movements to stimulate the organs and functions with equal emphasis upon the physiological and physical health of the individual. The French Delsarte system went in for health education through motor skill,#and grace, and trained the muscles to express emotions, and now we are developing an American system which studies the theory underlying all the systems that have gone before, and with our growing knowledge of psychology, mental tests, scientific hygiene of the school child and sociology, we try through physical training to fit the child for life,—not as a student with a healthy mind and body only, but consider teaching him in school, plays and games which will give him clean occupation not only after the school day, but for use in after life when business or professional work commences, or when house-keeping or motherhood show the girl the need for special exercises to keep her vigorous, and recreation to keep her sane.

We have just begun to learn what we can teach the children for use in after years and it is just as^-ecently that we have worked out a system of informal work for the first two school grades with a view to the child’s service to others, to the community, and to his country.

If we can overcome the evils of sedentary habits commenced in the first year of school, when the adage “a quiet child is a good child” and other similar inanities hold sway, we are accomplishing much.

The Kindergarten has started the child’s ethical training and in our use of games selected according to the child’s capacity we foster traits of courtesy, fairness, courage, energy, service and co-operation.

In the rhythmic work, which should be moderate and prolonged enough for hygienic effects, we give the child his chance for self-expression and for normal growth which the first year of school life is apt to check. It is often found that months pass without gain in weight and height, and when compared to gain in weight in the pre-school age we are aghast and long to do

Digitized by L^ooQle
220

everything in our knowledge and power to make conditions such that this shock shall be counteracted, the nerve tension lessened, and the demands of circulation and respiration satisfied through this or a similar plan of play and alternative work.

About the simplest rhythmic work is running to music, skipping, clapping, stamping, and this should be followed by breathing to allow the heart to regain its normal beat gradually.

If the children be not ready to follow the simple folk dancing steps through imitation, they are not mentally ready for this work, and the easier rhythms such as marching and action songs should be continued until later.

A folk dance is more beneficial in the second half of the first year, and any number of simple rhythmic movements may be combined to give a pleasing variety and a natural progression in the 1st term.

Dancing is purely recreative in its nature, and as little time as possible should be given to its actual teaching; then the children should simply throw themselves into the enjoyment of the emotions, unhampered by the form of the steps. The technical definition of dancing is “The expression of pleasure or other sentiments by means of prescribed movements which are regulated by music, either imagined or expressed’*.

The “prescribed movements’’ are not limited to steps, but by any part of the body capable of expressing emotion. When happy, a child jumps up and down, and claps his hands; he is literally dancing with jov, and the music is in his own soul.

The social side of dancing may be emphasized from the start; in the bow the children are asked to look into their neighbor’s or partner’s eyes and smile their greeting, and when they play the “How do you do’’ rhythmic games, they may be urged to express their pleasure at meeting by shining eyes, nods of heads, and in the waving of hands in saying “Good Bye’’. They must realize the blessing of being happy together, and letting it shine through. If the teacher dances with the children and is gracious and kind, radiating life and vigor, the children will unconsciously imitate and reflect this attitude.

In mimetics for the lower grades we teach informally the form of definite activities; these we take from the child’s world, the things with which he is most familiar; his every-day happenings. We use these in the imaginary plays, in mimetic exercises, and to give him a fund of material to use in his games and song plays,—else when he is asked to suggest he has nothing stored up on which to draw,—no background of activities.

I think we can not too soon begin talks on hygiene, not the why at all but the what in these first two years; simply work to establish habits in this plastic period. In September and October we may take up shampooing and brushing the hair, and at the daily morning inspection commend those whose hair is neat and tidy, and has been brushed, appealing to the pride* in appearance, trying very hard not to hurt any one’s self-respect. The daily tooth brush drill is started in September, too. There are a number of very amusing tooth paste and brush, advertisements which will appeal to the children, and if they are cut out and mounted, they make very good posters and health charts; there is one that we all see that runs something like this:

“Mary was a little lamb, her teeth were white as snow;
221

For every where that Mary went, her------------------------------was

sure to go.”

Accompanying this rhyme is the picture of a charming little girl with a row of pearly teeth, squeezing a tube of tooth paste.

I think this would make a deeper impression than one which appealed to the ear only; we are using two senses in this impression, and a whiff of the paste would utilize the sense of smell, too.

There are some splendid new children’s stories about teeth which will be found very helpful. The Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, New York City, issues wonderful little books on all phases of children’s health, and puts out a Child’s Alphabet of Health, illustrated.

Time is well spent in taking a sleep survey, and in measuring and weighing the children; it is claimed the American school child averages fourteen hours less sleep per week than his health demands. Do we wonder at the growth of Americanitis?

An argument that appeals to children is now that they have entered this wonderful new school life they need more sleep to keep them fit; that they will require early retiring in order to get up and bathe, dress, eat and attend the toilet before starting for school, so they will arrive fresh, and unhurried, so they may be happy and make others happy all day.

THE OUTLINE, SEPTEMBER 1ST GRADE.

first period.—Explanations.

1.	Daily morning inspection.

2.	Entries on Health chart.

3.	Weight and measurement chart.

4.	Drill on Direction.

5.	Posture work.

“picture frames.”

Let us make “Picture Frames,” stretch the arms, out at the sides, and raise them counting 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6; hold them, hands clasped over the head; now see how straight we can place the head in the frame, and stand tall, and above all smile. Let us take the frames apart, lowering the arms while counting 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. That’s fine!

This is a postural exercise, given without formal command; the children do the exercise with the teacher, through imitation. When the hands meet over the head the teacher uses the elevation cues; Stand tall and lift or straighten the head and smile. While the position is held the muscles are in static contraction. This is an excellent exercise given in the spirit of play, and no one but the teacher ever dreams of its corrective value. This may be repeated three times.

6.	Marching song.

“Left, left, listen to the music.”

Riley and Gayner.

To be used in connection with the teaching of Left and Right foot. Children are to be expected to keep time but not start with the left foot; this takes many weeks; it is a mental thing to be accomplished gradually.

Song Game, (this may be alternated with the Marching Song).

Looby Loo; “I put My Right Foot In.” It is better to repeat anything new on three succeeding days so that the little channels from brain cells may be deepened and assist memory; then have frequent repetitions.

Digitized by
222

7- Breathing exercise, Informal.

Stretching the String (breathe In, Out, (a) Rolling hands over and over. Exhale, Fling Hands apart, Inhale.)

SECOND PERIOD.

Story Gymnastics. “Play in the Woods.”

1.	Skip to the Woods.

2.	Walk through deep sand.

3.	Look up into trees to see bright leaves.

4.	Raise arms to let leaves fall on hands.

5.	Climb .trees.

6.	Swing from branches.

7.	Jump down.

8.	Gather leaves into piles.

9.	Inhale fresh air raising arms.

10.	Run home.

11.	Give a shout of joy, and laugh.

12.	Quiet down.

third period.—Basement Period and Recess.

Games.

Plain or squat tag.

Farmer in the Dell.

Follow the Leader.

Itiskit, Itaskit.

Cat and Rat.

Charley over the water.

A short run and breathing exercise.

These games are all too familiar to need explanation, and I think they all can be found in the standard books on Games.

fourth period. 2. p. M.

Rhythmic Work leading to Folk Dances.

Skipping. “Come Skip With Me and Join us in Our Play.”

1.	Clapping to 2-4 time in the following way; clap left 1, right, 2, left 3, pause 4.

Hands are held horizontally left above, then right above, then left, then hold for 4th count.

2.	Stamping in the same order; left 1, right 2, left 3 and pause 4; then right 1, left 2, right 3 and pause 4.

This work will be spread out over a month till the joy of actually doing is experienced, the movement become automatic, and the children can be gay and keep time, with some degree of freedom.

In rhythmic exercises as in music technique must become automatic before much self-expression can be indulged; good technique ai)ows spontaneity, perfect movements and freedom.

CLASS ROOM GAMES.

1.	Hide the Thimble.

2.	Good Morning.

3.	Squirrel and Nut.

Digitized by CjOOQ Le
223

Quieting Games - Butterflies - to bring the children to attention without a command and to slow heart action.

Imaginary Play - Mimetics - taught from Imitation only, - no formal commands.

Digging in the . sand.

Jumping over mounds of sand.

Throwing pebble in water.

Wading.

Swimming.

Breathing salt air.

OUTLINE FOR OCTOBER. FIRST GRADE-SUGGESTIONS FOR

TEACHERS.

FIRST PERIOD SAME AS IN SEPTEMBER.

1.	Drill on directions.

2.	Drill on parts of the body.

3.	To the back of room, turn, (Informal facing.)

4.	Alternate eight skipping steps with eight marching steps - Teacher counts - skip 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 . Class (7) march (8) 1, 2, 3, 4, j, 6, Class 7, skip 8, etc.

Children may hum during skipping; singing is difficult.

5.	The tune of Mulbery Bush is good for marching, running and skip-ping.

6.	Breathing - looking up at the stars - and breathin - breathout.

7.	Rhythmically - let children sigh or yawn or laugh to get rid of CO2. Be happy.

SECOND PERIOD.

Blow nose before each P. T. period.

Story gymnastic (or Mimetic Exercises), Nutting, or let the children work out a gymnastic story for themselves for October.

Suggest the activities only when the children's ideas run out.

1 Walk through woods on tiptoes, lift feet high, lift head and chest.

2.	Climb over stone wall (step over seat) jump quietly into leaves oa the other side.

3.	Balance walk along a log.

4.	Run a few steps, and jump over a log - 3 or 4 times.

5.	Stretch up and shake branch (use lateral trunk muscles.)

6.	Bend in all directions to pick up nuts (deep knee bending).

7.	Run home, bag over shoulder; tell children not to carry bag in left hand alone, but to change sides.

8.	Play ball with nuts.

9.	Deep Breathing.

THIRD PERIOD.

Games - Mulberry Bush - “This is the way we hold our books." Run for your supper.

Hygiene Period. Toothbrush drill. Blow nose drill. (Suggested by Albany “Health Messenger".)

FOURTH PERIOD.

Rhythm. Music:	Mother	Goose. Teach polka rhythm thus:—

time 2-4, mark time, left right left pause right, right left right pause; last

Digitized by CjOOQle
224

two weeks walk forward - using same rhythm with step i right, heel 2 left step 3 right, pause 4, left step 1, heel 2 right, step 3 left, pause 4.

Quieting games, The Clapping song, Riley and Gaynor.

Let your hands so loudly clap, clap, clap, clap,

Let your fingers briskly snap, snap, snap, snap

Then fold your arms and quiet be,

Open windows while children stand and sing; at end of period if the children put their heads on the desks for a minute and shut their eyes, complete relaxation will follow.

FIRST PERIOD.

Informal Facings. Use action game of Mulberry Bush with words suggested by Mrs. Hathaway, teaching washing of hands, holding book 12 inches from eyes. Review simplest rhythms to same melody, running, skipping, clapping, tapping. Combine running 8 steps - (7 and halt) clapping 8 times -(7 and halt), skipping 8 steps, tapping right and left, then progress in fours, as, 4 running steps, 4 skips, 4 claps, 2 taps and bow.

The Health Chart, Daily Morning Inspection and Weight and Height Chart may be done in this first period.

Breathing—Stretching the String. Review Stecher’s “My Brother”.

Postural Exercises—“Picture Frames.”

SECOND PERIOD.

The Morning Toilet. Suggestions from kiddies gratefully received.

1.	Splashing Cold Water.

2.	Rubbing Vigorously.

3.	Jumping in Place.

4.	Cleaning Teeth.

5.	Bathing Eyes.

6.	Cleaning Nails.

7.	Brushing Hair, parting, etc.

8.	Selecting Clean Garments.

9.	Brushing Shoes.

10.	Drinking Glass Water.

11.	Breathing Fresh Air.

Mention eating slowly, opening windows, airing bed, hanging up clothing,

etc.

THIRD PERIOD—GAMES.

Review Games of September 1st Grade. Basement. Drinks.

Squat Tag. .

Partner Tag.

Follow the Leader.

Schoolroom Cat and Mouse.

Dog and Bone.

FOURTH PERIOD---RHYTHMS AND SONG PLAYS.

King of France.

Jolly is the Miller.

I Should Like to Go to Shetland.

Charlie over the Water.

1 “Good Morning to You” from Kindergarten.

On the first “you” girls curtesy and on the second “you” boys bow. On the last “you” all bow to teacher who responds.

Digitized by C^ooQle
225

Folk Dance—Chimes of Dunkirk.

Mimetics—Playinjg soldier, horse,‘chopping wood, sawing wood, piling wood, play in the sand, jump over waves, swimming movements. Breathing , will be induced by these exercises. (Bancroft’s Book of Games unless otherwise noted.)

GAME PERIOD. BASEMENT. DRINKS

All periods should be out of doors except in the most severe weather.

Song Games:

Farmer in the Dell.

I See You.

The Circles (Stecher).

Playground Games:

Bird Catcher.

Run for Your Supper.

Leaves are Green (Crawford)

Farmer Boy’s Return (Clark.)

Rhythms, Imaginary Play and Mimetics—The Polka rhythm, in place, lifting feet as in marking time; time 2-4.

Right 1, Left a, Right, 3, Paqse, 4.. (Left is free.)

Left, 1, Right, a, Left, 3, Pause, 4.

After a week take it to Step, Heel, Step, Pause. Later use the hop, form circle, and dance all around the room.

Review skipping and running to music in the first period when it can be done automatically. This period is for teaching from imitation.

Review “Chimes of Dunkirk.”

Teach Stecher’s “Herr Schmidt” to use in 1st period later.

OCTOBER GRADE 2.

Daily Morning Questions, etc., etc., etc.

First Period sum* routine, Hygiene, Stecher’s “Herr Schmidt” after it has been taught in last period.

Talk on Retiring at Night, Number of hours sleep, open windows, attend toilet, wash, clothes orderly, soiled ones placed in receptacle, clean teeth, (special emphasis) bathe eyes, brush hair, drink, need of clean “hankie”. Pride in appearance, Individual cups.

Unless much work in Hygiene was taken up in the 1st grade these topics may be spread over two months* talks. All may be worked out numerically in drills.

Appeal to three senses 1. Writing outline on board; 2. Hearing; 3. Muscle sense training, acting out all in spirit of play.

Second Period. Blow rlos^ before all Physical Training periods.

Story Gymnastic. Indian Life.

1.	Paddle in canoe to woods (Sit on desks).

2.	Walk in woods on tiptoes (Use elevation cues, work for posture, each child may be a chief and carry himself as one).

3.	Look for White Man.

4.	Shooting arrows. (Let children suggest different ways.)

5.	Run up to wounded bear.

6.	Throw over shoulder.

7.	Run to canoe.

8.	Paddle home.

9.	Out of breath, breathing.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
226

Imaginary play. Faljing leaves* twirling leaves, wind blowing leaves, swaying of trees, rain drops, squirrels running.

Mimetic exercises. Scooping sand. It is better to let the sand sift thru the fingers than to throw it over the head or in t;he air as is usually done on the last count. Since we teach the children not to throw sand when at the sand box, we surely should not teach it numerically. Breathing, as sand is scooped.

IN COMMEMORATION OF THE LANDING OF THE PILGRIMS.

A PAGEANT.

The following pageant was written by the pupils of the Nathaniel Hawthorne School of Oak Park, Illinois, in commemoration of the tencentenary anniversary of the Landing of the Pilgrims and was presented at the Hawthorne Gymnasium on the third and the fourth of June.

The pageant is divided into a prologue and six episodes. A brief synopsis of these episodes, together with extracts from the dialogue, is reprinted below.	9

It will be noticed that each part, while necessary in carrying out the development of the theme, is so arranged that opportunity is given for much interesting variety in entertainment.

The last two episodes show the expansion of the Pilgrims’ ideals of v liberty, freedom, and equality, all of which resulted in the Declaration of Independence and in the conquering of the wilderness. This last part is beautifully symbolical.

As is very evident, this is a remarkable production for children in the grades. It shows creative power, dramatic instinct, familiarity with historical events, and considerable ability to see the underlying significance of these events.

EPISODE /. (English Scene).

Setting—May-day scene in English village.

Children are playing, picking flowers, and dancing rustic dances such as, “A Hunting We Will Go”. The entrance of Robin Hood with his men furnishes more gaiety and merriment. In the midst of the dancing, the Pilgrims enter to say farewell. Their sombre attire and quiet demeanor emphasize the joy and happiness that they are leaving behind, as they start their uncertain adventuring after religious freedom.

EPISODE II. (Dutch Scene).

Setting—A market place in Holland.

Small Dutch children are attempting to inveigle the Pilgrim children into playing their games and reading their books with them. The Pilgrim elders behold this proselyting with horror and send the children to their homes. This scene makes apparent the immediate reason for leaving Holland.

EPISODE III. (Indian Scene.)

Setting—An Indian village.

Squaws, Indian maidens, and children carry on the various activities characteristic ot an Indian village; some weave, some grind maize between stones; a medicine man weaves charms beside the large war drum; a mother sings a lullaby to her papoose; the small boys engage in a miniature hunt.

Digitized by CjOOQle
227

A sound from the forest halts all motion until the chief with his befeathered and painted warriors returns from a successful hunt. All join in a dance of triumph which is interrupted by a breathless runner announcing the approach of a rival tribe. Instantly the peaceful scene changes; the men prepare for battle with war song and dance. This scene is intended to prepare for the coming of the Pilgrims and to show the Indians as they were before the arrival of the white men.

EPISODE IV. (The Mayflower.)

(Scene i)

Setting—Main room of the cabin.

John Carver, Miles Standish, Bradford, Billington, Elder Brewster, Alden Hopkins, Robinson, and others whose names are household words, are seated in the cabin, with the women at their spinning-wheels. The need for establishing an acceptable government in the new colony is discussed as follows:

Carver:	It	seemeth	we have need to discuss plans for ye carrying on

of governmente of our colonie. It seemeth clear that an understanding must be sought whereby we may have an equal chance.

Billington:	Master	Carver has well said; we should understand each

other that when we come ashore we should use our own libertie.

Hopkins:	I agree with Master Billington; we were to land at ye mouth

of ye Hudson; landing in this strange bay certainly absolves us from any obligations to the Virginia Company.

Bradford:	Truth,	no one hath power to command us. Ye patente

we have is for Virginia and not foi\ New England which belongs to another governmente with which ye Virginia Company hath nothing to do. We have no place of appeal. Our worthe brother hath put ye case well.

Standish:	Therefore, we,must make a law for ourselves; a colonie

cannot exist without a governmente.

John Alden:	Yes,	Friend Standish, that is what we must therefore do.

Robinson:	Let it not be a political manifesto such as a scheming cabal,

let it be a policie of self governmente imposing equal laws on all and giving to all an equal chance as Master Carver said.

Standish:	It is to be man for man, and ye simple manhood in each

man is what counts.

FJder Brewster:	Ye	central idea be ye right of each to his own individual

libertie, ye obligation to each of us to use his libertie as not abusing it and subordinate his mere selfish aims to ye common genuine human brotherhood. The Kingdom of God cometh not with observation.

(Scene 2.)

Setting—Same cabin in the Mayflower.

Six conspirators, members of the crew, plot against the welfare of the Pilgrims, but are finally obliged to sign the Mayflower compact with the others. This momentous historical event is given its deserved importance by solemn attitude of the Pilgrims, and the dignified reading of the Compact, together with the chanting of the icoth psalm.

EPISODE V. (Scene i.)

Setting—Interior of a log cabin in Plymouth, Mass.

Nineteen men about the table are discussing the establishment of a

Digitized by CjOOQle
228

military force for protection against the Indians. Miles Standish is selected leader; at his request retaining the title of captain. As they are talking, Desire Minter, wild with fright, rushes in, screaming that the Indians are coming. The men seize their arms as the hubbub and confusion increase outside. Suddenly the Indian, Squanto, appears in the doorway with the dramatic greeting, "Wtelcome Englishmen!” In the ensuing conversation, the friendly attitude of the Indians is made clear.

(Scene 2.)

Setting—A forest glade.

Massasoit, with his braves about him is awaiting the English. Winslow entering with gifts, announces the arrival of Carver with his musketeers. A treaty is made and the peace pipe smoked.

(Scene 3)

Setting—Street before Independence Hall.

The street is crowded with cheering people; a small band of Hesssians marches by jeered at by the mob; Jefferson, Franklin, Sherman, Adams, Livingston, and other patriots pass into the building. Several young men join a regiment of ragged Continental soldiers and march away while the band plays Yankee Doodle. Adams again appears on the balcony and reads the Declaration of Independence. The people shout, the royal coat of arms is torn down, and a small boy cries, "Ring, grandpa, ring.”

EPISODE VI.

Setting—The forest, with America asleep on a dais partially concealed by a misty curtain.

The spirit of the Wilderness with the Powers of the Forest, the Powers of the River, and the Mist Maidens dance, their revel being interrupted by a shot. The spirits disappear in anger as a group of pioneers enters, but re-appear, with branches with which they lash in vain the Pioneers. As they go, the Powers of the River stream in with white scarfs (foam) and attack the Pioneers. The Pioneers show signs of weariness and arc gradually overcome by the Mist Maidens and the Spirit of Fever. They are revived, however, and conciliate the Spirits of the Wilderness, all joining in a song. At the end of the song a large band of other nationalities enters and America awakes. From the large group come leaders bearing gifts to America, democracy, liberty, education, and art. They sing "America the Beautiful.” Curtain.

"Visual Education”.

THE TREND IN PLAY AND RECREATION*

BY THEODORE J. SMERGALSKI, CHICAGO.

Play and physical recreation are today an education and leisure time problem. Great developments have occurred in this respect during the last thirty-five years of our history. The play movement in America began in 1886, with a little unsupervised sand garden. This expanded in a few

------1-----------

*Read at the Convention 0] the Middle Section oj the American Physical Education Association, Chicago, April, 1920.

Digitized by CaOOQLe
22ft *

years into the small open ground without any apparatus; from this, into the outdoor gymnasium or the playground with apparatus; then into the recreation center with a building, a swimming pool, tennis courts, ball field, etc.; then into the school,,social center, and lastly community service, which is now spreading over the country.

At'first, play was limited to the hours of daylight; now it includes evening hours. At first, it was limited to children; now it includes persons of all ages. At first, it was unsupervised; now it is directed by trained and paid leaders. At first it was a private effort; now it is a public function.

Of so great importance has the play and recreation movement become that municipalities are today conducting recreation as a public utility for the physical, moral and social welfare of the citizens; that industries and commercial establishments are providing recreational facilities for their employes as a good business proposition, because industry is realizing that certain physical standards of employes have to be maintained for efficient production; that churches and clubs are entering the field for the cultivation of a good healthy fellowship, for good morality rests upon the good health of man; and that schools regard play as an indispensable adjunct to the general problem of education. In other words, we are arriving at the realization of the economic necessity of harmonious physical and mental development, and recognize in play and physical recreation one of the most helpful means to this end.

Physical play and recreation are today popularized. This need for play has been brought about in the last thirty-five years by some profound changes in our social, economic and industrial life. Shelves of books have been written on these changes, their causes and effects, and their influence upon the social, moral and physical life of the people; but there are many industrial, economic and political changes transpiring at the present time that make the need for the promotion of play and physical recreation greater than ever in the history, despite the effective progress oudined above. The passing of the saloon, the social institution of the working man, the high wages received today, the shorter hours of work and the general unrest, all mean more leisure for the people and since leisure is regarded today as one of the most important opportunities for development of man, it is highly important that the use of leisure time by the public be as highly organized and directed as any industry, for more ills today are due to misuse of leisure than to economic pressure. The character and extent of opportunities we are going to offer the public in the next few years for wholesome leisuretime activity will have a mighty influence upon the methods and means of solving many of our present difficulties.

The present need for the proper u,se of leisure has been actuated by the rapid changes’that are affecting our home and community life. Today the family is gradually ceasing to function as a social unit, institutional life is coming into prominence; forces are being felt which seem to be drawing people away from the bosom and the altar of the home, and the inner tranquility of the individual and the quietude of community life are being disturbed; children are born into a world today without the rich heritage of the home and community life of twenty years ago, which made for physical rigor, driving power and the development of a strong character by association with strong personalities.

For example:	the	back yard is slowly disappearing. In^the place^of
230

the single home, we see the rise of apartment homes, and the wholesome chores of the boys and girls of years ago are today becoming mere makeshifts, because of present material conveniences and comforts. Home industry is giving way to machine industry which holds nothing in store for the physical welfare of the boy and girl, because of the minute subdivision of labor and the monotony of operation. Independence of the people is giving way to dependance upon a purchase basis of food, clothing and everything that is necessary for life. Is not the church losing its influence as a creative forcer Do not our short cuts to material progress seem to be short cuts to physical deterioration? All of this tends to indicate the dire need for a further development of play and recreation as positivp forces operating for the wellbeing of the people.

Though the need for this is apparent, two negative tendencies seem to be gaining ground of late. One is the tendency to substitute passive recreation for the active, and the other is incident to it; namely; dullness of interest in participation in an all-round program of gymnasium activity.

As to the first:	While we are urging the putting of hands, heart

and head into an effort of pleasure, we see about us today a growing practice of putting the hands into the pocket to buy pleasure. We are cultivating the art of sitting and being amused by others. The “looking-on” type of recreation is gripping the minds of the people as well as their pockets. The thousands of Romans who gathered daily in the Stadium to see two Gauls fight had, later on, from their inactivity, the pleasure of seeing those physically developed Gauls defeat them in battle and take away from them a part of their country.

Commercial recreation suggests this sitting habit. The motion picture industry is the fifth largest industry in the world. Add to this our professional baseball, theatres, pool rooms, public dance halls, etc., and you have a passive recreation industry that threatens to put a “wreck” into recreation, instead of “creation,” the aim of recreation. Suffice it to say that if we consider the high cost of public pleasure in terms of effects, we can see in it as much cause for alarm as in the high cost of living. Someone once said: “To realize the full benefits of leisure, we must insist upon the practice of more active play and physical recreation ‘of* and ‘by* the people, and less ‘for* the people.”

As to the second* Are we not in our own field of work sensing a dullness of interest on the part of our young folks in general gymnasium work? 1 am inclined to think so. For example, several years ago, gymnasiums ran at full capacity and the membership participated pleasurably in all the recreative torces of gymnasium work offered. Is this the spirit today? Take a concrete case. Do you not observe among your young women that the general and genuine interest formerly exhibited in folk and gymnastic dancing, an active form of pleasure, shifting to social dancing, a more passive type of exercise? The recent use of the dance halls in our recreation centers is indicative of this tendency. Again, how much does your regular gymnasium work, no matter how recreative you make it, appeal to the young men of today. The average young man’s interest seems to be limited to one or two sports, and nothing else demands his attention. He actually shuns all other forms of gymnasium activities. Further, it seems that recently athletic clubs have been springing up everywhere over night like mush-

Digitized by

Google
231

rooms. Apparently the desire is to obtain exclusive use of some gymnasium and thus avoid participation in a general program of gymnasium activities. This tendency is to be regretted for it tends to specialization, professionalism and a reduced use of public recreational facilities.

While some forms of passive recreation are perfectly legitimate, and a certain degree of specialization in some sport is desirable, passive recreation and specialization should not dominate our leisure time interests. They should not lead to the exclusion of creative play, and the promotion of a general program. Professionalism has its place also, but amateurism is the road of the boy and girl to health, vigor, manhood and womanhood.

This briefly sketches the trend in the play and recreation movement. Progress has been made but greater organization of the movement is needed. More active recreation is what we need, yet it is passive recreation that seems to receive our attention. Today we must recognize play and physical recreation as being fundamental to the social, moral and physical development and well being of the people, that they are today an educational and leisure time problem, and that what we do in this respect will have much to do with our growth or decline as a people—as a nation.

Play and active recreation give happiness. We live for happiness. Therefore, play and recreation are big issues. I am hopeful of our efforts and results.

OLYMPIC TRACK AND FIELD RESULTS.

The following summaries of the Track and Field Events at the Olympic Games now being held at Antwerp, Belgium constitute the most impcytant events of the VII OLYMPIAD. Although the United States Team has carried off the highest number of points it will be seen by comparison with other nations and former performances that they are being pressed for supremacy by Finland and Sweden.

Several of our athletes suffered injuries of a greater or less degreeon their trip across the Atlantic. Housing facilities on board ship and at Antwerp were not conducive to good results. The poor condition of the track at the Stadium owing to rain also caused injuries to our athletes who had but a few days to get back their “land legs” after arrival. Several of our best ath-letes were disabled so that they could not even get into the Semi-Finals of their respective events.

UNITED STATES POINT WINNERS AND THEIR CLUBS.

Ahearn, Dan, Illinois A. C.

Barron, H. E., Meadowbrook Club, Phila.

Bennett, B., Chicago A. A.

Bradley, Everett L., University of Kansas.

Brosius, Carl S. Capt., U. S. Army

Daggs, Chas. 1)., Los Angeles A. C.

Denney, Thomas R. Lieut., U. S. Army

Digitized by CjOOQle
2S2

Desch, A. G., Notre Dame University Devanney, Michael, Miilrose A. C., New York Eby, Earl, Chicago, A. A.

Fields, Stephan C. Sergt., U. £ Army Finston, Joseph, Sergt., U. S. Army Flynn, Patrick, Paulist A. C., New York Foss, F. K., Chicago A. A.

Granrose, Sylvester, Corp., U. S. Army Hamilton, Brutus, University of Missouri Hulsenbosch, Al.,' Paulist A. C., N. Y.

Johnson, Carl, University of Michigan Kirksey, N. M., Olympic Club, San Francisco Knourek, F. E., Illinois A. C.

Ksyczenski, Jos., Sergt., U. S. Army Landers, Sherman, Chicago A. A.

Landon, R. N., New York A. C.

LeGendre, Robert, Georgetown University Lindley, Robert, Sergt., U. S. Army Lindsey, Elmer, Sergt., U. S. Army Liversedge, H. B., U. S. Navy Loomis, Frank, Chicago A. A.

McDonald, P. J., New York A. C.

McGrath, M. J., New York A. C.

Maroney, T., St. Anselms A. C., N. Y.

Muller, H. B., Olympic Club, San Francisco Murchison, Loren, New York A. C.

Murphy, John, Multnomah A. C., Portland, Ore. Murray, Fred S., New York A. C.

Myers, E. E., Chicago A. A.

Norton, J. K., Olympic Club, San Francisco Organ, Joe, Pittsburgh, Pa.

Paddock, Chas. W., Los Angeles A. C.

Pearma,n, J. R., New York A. C

Penn, Wm., Sergt, U. S. Army

Remer, R., American Walker's Club, N. Y.

Rond, Jos. A., Corp., U. S. Army Ryan, P. J., Loughlin Lyceum, N. Y.

Scholz, J. V., University of Missouri Scott, D. M., Lieut., U. S. Army Shea, Frank J., U. S. Navy

.Shields, Lawrence M., Meadowbrook Club, Phila. Smith, Walker, Chicago A. A.

Sprott, A. B., Los Angeles A. C.

Templeton, R. L., Iceland Stanford University, Cal. Tucker, Luther, Private, U. S. Army Whalen, Walter, Boston A. C.

Woodring, Allen, Meadowbrook Club, Phila.

IOO METER DASH.

Record:	10.6 sec. D. F. Lipincott, United States 1912.

1.	C. W. Paddock, U. S., 10.4-5 sec-

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
2SS

«

2.	M. M. Kirksey, U. S.

3.	H. F. V. Edward, England

4.	J. V. Scholz, U. S.

5.	Alikhan, France

i.	L. Murchison, U. S.

200 METER DA$H.

World’s Record: 21.6 sec. made by A. Hahn, U. S. 1994.

Olympic Record:	21.7	sec.,	made by R. C. Craig, U. S. Stockholm, 191s.

1.	A. Woodring, U. S., 22 sec.

2.	Paddock, U. S.

3.	Edward, England

4.	Murchison, U. S.

5.	Davidson, New Zealand

6.	Oosterlaap, South Africa

400 METER RUN

Record: 48.2 sec. made by C. Reidpath, U. S., Stockholm, ifi*.

1.	Rudd, South Africa, 49 3-5 sec.

2.	Butler, England

3.	Engdahl, Sweden	'

4.	Shea, U. S.

5.	Davis, England

6.	Dafel, South Africa

800 METERS RUN.

Record:	1 min. 51.9 sec., made by J. E. Meredith, U. S., Stockholm,

1912.

1.	Hill, England 1 min. 53 2-5 sec.

2.	Eby, U. S.

3.	Rudd, South Africa

4.	Mountain, England

5.	Scott, U. S.

6.	Sprott, U. S.

1500 METER RUN.

World’s Record: 3 min. 55.8 sec. made by A. R. Kiviat, U. S., 1912. Olympic Record:	3	min.	56.8	sec.,	made	by	A.	N.	S. Jackfcoa, EngUod,

Stockholm, 1912.

1.	Hill, England, 4 min. 1 4-5 sec.

2.	Baker, England

3.	Shields, U. S.

4.	Vohralik, Czechoslovakia

5.	Lundgren, Sweden

6.	Andre, France

5000 METER RUN.

Record:	14	min.	36.6	sec.,	made by H. Kolehm&inen, Finlaod, Stock,

holm, 1912.

1.	Guillemont, France, 14 min. 55 sec.

2.	Nurmi, Finland

3.	Backman, Sweden

4.	Koskeniemie, Finland

5.	Blewit, England

6.	Seagrove, England

Digitized by C^ooQLe
234

10,000 METER RUN.

World’s Record: 30 min. 58.8 sec., J. Bonin, France, 1913.

Olympic Record: 31 min. 20-8 sec., H. Kolchmainen, Finland, Stockholm, 1912.

1.	Nurmi, Finland, 31 min. 45 2-5 sec.

2.	Guillemot, France

3.	Wilson, England

4.	Maccario, Italy

5.	Manhes, France

6.	Lumatshien, Finland

MARATHON RACE.

Winner at Stockholm, McArthur, South Africa.

1.	H. Kolehmainen

2.	Lossmon

3.	Arris

4.	Broos

5.	Tomoskoki

6.	Sofus

7.	Organ

1912:	2	hrs.	36	min.

Finland 2. 32. 35 Esthonia_ 2. 32. 48 Italy 2. 38. 37 Belgium 2. 39. 26 Finland 2. 40. 18 Denmark 2. 41. 18 U. S. 2. 41. 30

IIO METER HURDLE

54.8 sec., made by K. K. 4-5 (New World’s Record)

4-5

4-5

4-5

World’s Record:	15	sec.,	made by F. Smithson, U. S., 1908.

Olympic Record:	15	1-5	sec., made by F. W. Kelly, Stockholm, 1912.

1.	Thomson, Canada, 14 4-5 sec. (new World’s Record)/

2.	Barron, U. S.

3.	Murray, U. S.

4.	Wilson, New Zealand

5.	Smith, U. S.

6.	Christiernssen, Sweden

4OO METER HURDLE RACE

Record:	55 sec., C. Bacon, United States, 1908.

1.	Frank Loomis, United States, 54 sec., New World’s Record.

2.	J. K. Norton, United States

3.	A. G. Desch, United States

4.	G. Andres, France

5.	C. Christiernssen, Sweden

6.	C. D. Daggs, United States

3000 METER STEEPLECHASE.

Not held previously.

1.	Hodge, England, 10 min. 2 2-5 sec.

2.	P. Flynn, U. S.

3.	Ambrosini, Italy

4.	Mattson, Sweden

5.	M. Devanney, U. S.

6.	A. Hulsenbosch, U. S.

3000 METER WALK

Not held previously.

1.	Frigerio, Italy, 13 min. 14 1-5 sec.

2.	Parker, Australia*

♦Printer’s Error:	From	heie	go	to	Page	241	and	then	return	to	Page	285.

Digitized by

Google
236

2.	Peterson, Denmark, 3.70 meters.

3.	Knourek, U. S.

4.	Myers, U. S.

5.	Jorgensson, Denmark

6.	Rydberg, Sweden

Record:

JAVELIN THROW.

1.	Myrra	Finland	65.78 meters (215
2.	Peltonan	Finland	63.80 meters
3-	Johanssen	Finland	63.09 meters
4-	Sariste	Finland	62.39 meters
5-	Klumberg	Esthonia	6I.39 meters
6.	Lundstrom	Sweden	DISCUS THROW

J J

ft. 9 1-5 in.) New World’s Record.

World’s Record:	Best	Hand 156 ft. 1 3-8 in., made by James Duncan*

U. S., 1912.

Olympic Record:	45.21	meters,	made	by	A.	R.	Taipale,	Finland,	Stock-

holm, 1912.

I.	Niklander	Finland	44.685	meters (146 ft. 7 7-16 in.)
2.	Taipale	Finland	44.19	meters
3-	Pope	U. S.	42.13	meters
4-	Dallhagen	Sweden	41.07	meters
5-	Bartlett	U. S.	40.875	meters
6.	Erickson	Sweden	40.315	meters

THROWING l6 lb HAMMER.

World’s Record:	189 ft. 61-2 in, made by P. Ryan, U. S., 1913.

Olympic Record:	54.74	meters	made	by M. J. McGrath, U. S., Stock-

holm, 1912.

1.	P. Ryan	U. S.	bo  -J	meters
2.	Lind	Sweden	48.43	meters
3-	Bennett	U. S.	48.23	meters
4-	Svenson	Sweden	47.29	meters
5-	McGrath	U. S.	46.67	meters
6.	Nicholson	England	45.70	meters
			SHOT PUT	

World’s Record:	51 ft., made by R. Ross, U. S., 1909

Olympic Record:	15.34	meters,	made by P. McDonald, Stockholm,

1912.

1.	Porkala	Finland	14.81	meters
2.	Niklander	Finland	14.15	1-2 mei
3-	Liversedge	U. S.	14.15	meters
4-	McDonald	u. s.	14.08	meters
5-	Nilsson	Sweden	13.87 meters	
6.	Tanner	Estbonia	13.60	meters

PUTTING 56ft) WEIGHT

. Not held previously.

1. P. J.'McDonald U. S.	11.265 meters

2. P. J. Ryan U. S.	10.95 meters

Digitized by v^ooQle
2S6

3. Lind	Sweden	10.15	meters
4. McDermitt	Canada	10.12	meters
5. Svensson	Sweden	9.40	meters
6. Peterson	Finland	9-37	meters

400 METER RELAY.

World’s Record: 42.3 sec., Germany, 1912.

Olympic Record: 42.4 sec., England, Stockholm, 1911.

1.	United States, 42 1-5 sec. (New World's Record made by: Paddock,

Sckolz, Murchison and Kirksey).	*

2.	France

3.	Sweden

4.	England

5.	Denmark

6.	Luxemburg

1600 METER RELAY RACE

World's Record: 3 min. 16.6 sec., made by U. S. Team, 1912. (Sheppard, Reidpath, Meredith, Lindberg).

1.	England, 3 min. 22 1-5 sec.

2.	South Africa

3.	France

4.	United States

5.	Sweden

3000 METER TEAM RACE.

Winner at Stockholm, 1912; United States 9 points.

1.	H. H. Brown, U. S., 8.51 1-5 sec.

2.	Brackman, Sweden

3.	Schardt, U. S.

4.	Burtin, France

5.	Blewitt, England •. Dresser, U. S.

TUG OF WAR.

Winner at Stockholm:	Sweden.

1.	England

2.	f Holland, tied for second place.

3.	< Belgium, tied for second place.

4.	( United States, tied for second place.

5.	Italy

DECATHLON.

Winner at Stockholm 1912:

1.	Loveland	Norway
2.	Hamilton	U. S.
3-	Ohlsson	Sweden
4-	Halmer	Sweden
5-	Nielsson	Sweden
6.	Wickholen	Finland  CLASSIC
Broad Jump.		
1.	Hamilton	U. S.
2.	Lehtonen	Finland

H. Wieslander, Sweden, 7,724.495 points. 6,804.355 P°int*

6,770.86 points 6>579-3°5 points 6,533-15 points 6*434-53 points 6,406.46 points

PF.NTATH LON.

6.86 meters 6.85 meters

Digitized by v^ooQle
237

3-	Bradley	u. s.	6.61	meters
4-	Lortenon	Finland	6.59 meters	
5*	LeGendre	U. S.	6.50	meters
6.	Gyllenstelpe	Sweden	6.41	meters
Discus Throw.		.		
1.	Ohlsson	Sweden	39.80 meters	
2.	Leeland	Norway	39-51	meters
3*	Klumberg	Esthonia	38.62 meters	
4*	LeGendre	U. S.	37.30 meters	
5-	Hamilton	U. S.	37-3»	meters
6.	Bradley	U. S.	36.67 meters	
1500 Meter Race.				

1.	Lortenen, Finland, 4 min. 36 sec.

2.	Lehtonen, Finland

3.	Ohlsson, Sweden

4.	Looland, Norway

5.	LeGendre, U. S.

6.	Bradley, U. S.

Javelin Throw. 1. Klumberg		Esthonia	60.75 meters
2.	Lehtonen	Finland	54.67 meters
3*	Lortenon	Finland	54.25 meters
4-	Looland	Norway	53.13 meters
5*	Nilson	Sweden	50.85 meters
6.	Vcnsson	Sweden	50.43 meters
200 Meter Run. 1. Bradley		U. S.	23 sec.
2.	Lehtonen	Finland	23 sec.
3-	Gyllenstelpe	Sweden	23 sec.
4-	LeGendre	U. S.	23 sec.
5*	Hamilton	u. s.	23.2-5 sec.
6.	Lortenon	Finland	
1.	Lehtonen	SUMMA RY.  Finland 14 points	
2.	Bradley	u. s.	25 points
3-	Hamilton	u. s.	26 points
4-	LeGendre	u. s.	26 points
5-	Lortenon	Finland	26 points
6.	Loveland	Norway	27 points

CROSS COUNTRY 10,000 METERS

Individual Winner at Stockholm 1912: H. Kolehmainen, Finland, 45- min. 11.6 sec.

Team Winner at Stockholm 1912: Sweden.

INDIVIDUAL.

1.	Nurmi, Finland, 27 min. 15 sec.

2.	Bachman, Sweden

3.	Lumatainen, Finland 4* Wilson, England

Digitized by v^ooQLe
5- Hogarty, England 6. Conquiencer, Italy

TEAM RACE

I.	Finland	10 points
2.	England	21 points
3*	Sweden	23 points
4*	United States	36 points
5-	France	40 points
6.	Belgium	50 points

Final standing of Nations in Track and Field events.

United States

Finland

Sweden

England

France

Italy

South Africa

Canada

Norway

Denmark

Esthonia

New Zealand

Belgium

Australia

Czschoslovakia

Holland

Luxemburg

212 points 105 points 95 points 85 points 34 points 28 points 24 points 10 points 10 points 9 points 8 points 5 points 5 points 5 points 3 points 2 points 1 point

(Unofficial.)

OTHER OLYMPIC RESULTS

The following summaries are not as accurate as they might be at the time of writing. Full reports have not reached us owing to official discrepancies at the Stadium. Reports received here mainly show the United States results. All these results will eventually figure in the final report of the Olympiad and it is therefore difficult at present to make any definite comparison.

In many of the following reports the results mentioned are the final outcome of all elimination trials.

GRECO-ROMAN WRESTLING

Featherweight Class 132 1-4 lbs.

Friman, Finland, defeated Kahnonken, Finland, 4 min.

Lightweight Class 148.8 lbs.

Tamminan, Finland, outpointed Vara, Finland.

Middleweight Class 165.35 lbs.

Westergren, Sweden, defeated Lindfort, Finland, 32 min'

Light Heavyweight Class 181.88 lbs.

Johanson, Sweden, defeated Sint, Holland, 16 min.

Heavyweight Class

Lindfors, Finland, was awarded decision over Ahlgren, Sweden, after 1 hour 15 min.

Digitized by C.ooQLe
•	239

SUMMARY.'

Finland	3	bouts

Sweden	2	bouts

Denmark Norway

ROWING. SINGLE SCULLS.

1. Jack Kelly	U. S.	7 min. 35 sec.

Vesper Club, Phila.

2. Beresford	England	7. min. 36 sec.

DOUBLED SCULLED BOATS WITHOUT COXSWAIN

1.	United States, 7 min. 9 sec., Jack Kelly and Paul Costello, Vesper Club, Phila.

2.	Italy

3.	France

PAIRED OARED BOATS WITH COXSWAIN.

1.	Italy, 7 min. 56 sec.

2.	France

3.	Switzerland

The United States was not entered in this event.

FOUR OARED BOATS WITH COXSWAIN.

1.	Switzerland, 6 min. 54 sec.

2.	United States

3.	Norway

EIGHT OARED BOATS WITH COXSWAIN.

1.	United States, 6 min. 5 sec., Annapolis Crew.

2.	England, 6 min. 5 4-5 sec., Leander Crew composed of Oxford and Cambridge men.

,	MODERN	PENTATHLON.

Consisting of:

1.	Rapid fire at target with revolver or pistol 25 meter range.

2.	Swimming 300 meters free style.

3.	Sword Fencing.

4.	Cross Country Riding 5000 meters.

5.	Cross Country Running 4000 meters.

1.	Dryssen, Sweden

2.	Deleval, Sweden

3.	Rund, Sweden

6.	Lieut. Col. Robert Sears, U. S. Army

8.	Capt. H. McRaynor, U. S. Army

CATCH - AS - CATCH CAN WRESTLING.

I.	United States	9 1-2 points
2.	Finland	8 points
3-	Sweden	51-2 points
4-	Switzerland	5 points
5-	England	2 points

GYMNASTIC COMPETITION.

The United States was not represented in the Team Contest

19 points 7 points 3 points 1 point

Digitized by
Individual Standing, European Method, consisting of:

Team Standing

1.	Italy 359.855 points out of possible 404 points,

2. Belgium	346.785 points

3. France	340.10 points

Individual Standing*

1.	Zomposi Italy 88.35 points out of possible 96.

2. Marcos	France	87.62 points

3. Gamier	France	87.45 points

10.	Frank J. Kriz, U. S. Bohemian Gymnastic Assn., New York.

No report received on the other U. S. members of the team.

FENCING. TEAM FOIL FENCING.

3.	United States.

INDIVIDUAL FENCING.

No U. S. competitiors [qualified for the finals in the Individual Foil, Dueling sword and sabres.

Italy won most honors.

ICE HOCKEY.

1.	Canada, 2 goals to o from U. S.

2.	United States.

ICE SKATING.

3.	Miss Theresa Weld, U. S., Boston, Mass.

SWIMMING. IOO METER FREE STYLE MEN.

Olympic Record:	1	min.	2	2-5	sec.,	made	by Duke Kahanamoku, U. S

Stockholm, 1912.

1.	Duke Kahanamoku, U. S. Honolulu, 1 min. 1 2-5 sec. (new Olympic Record).

2.	P. Kealeha, U. S. Honolulu

3.	W. W. Harris, U. S. Honolulu

4.	Herald, Australia.

IOO METER BACK STROKE. MEN

Olympic Record:	1	min.	20	4-5	sec.,	made	by	H.	J. Hebner, U. S.

Stockholm, 1912.

1.	W. Kealoha, U. S., Honolulu, 1 min. 15 1-5 sec. (New Olympic Record)

2.	R. Keeris, U. S. Los Angeles A. C.

3.	Blitz, Belgium.

4.	Perry McGiUivray, U. S. Illinois A. C.

5.	Harold Kruger, U. S. Honolulu.

200 METER BREAST STROKE MEN.

Olympic Record:	3	min.	1	4-5	sec.,	made	by	W.	Bathe, Germany,

Stockholm, 1912.

1.	Malcoth, Sweden, 3 min. 4 2.5 sec.

2.	Henning, Sweden

3.	Aaltonen, Finland

4.	J. Howell, U. S. Oakland, Cal

Freaa here Read ea Page 242

Digitized by v^.ooQle
241

3- Remer, U. S]

4.	McMaster, South Africa

5.	Maroney, U. S.

6.	Dawson, England

'	10,000 METER WALK.

Record: 46 min. 28 4-10 sec., made by G. H. Goulding, Stockholm,

1912

1.	Frigerio, Italy, 48 min. 6 1-5 sec.

*	2.	Pearman, U. S.

3.	Gunn, England

4.	McMaster, South Africa

5.	Hehir, England

6.	Maroney, U. S.

‘	RUNNING	HIGH JUMP.

World’s Record: 6 ft. 7 5-16 in., made by E. Beeson, U. S., 1914. Olympic Record:	1.93	meters made by A. W. Richards, U. S., Stock-

holm, 1912.

1.	Landon, U. S., 1.94 meters (6ft 4 1-4 in. ) New Olympic Record.

2.	Muller, U. S., Tied for second place, at 1.90 meters.

3.	Elklund, Sweden, Tied for second place, at 1.90 meters.

4.	Murphy, U. S., Tied at 1.85 meters.

5.	Whalen, U. S.,Tied at 1.85 meters.

6.	Baker, England, Tied at 1.85 meters.

On jump off Muller beat Elklund for second place at 1.88 meters.

On jump off Whalen beat Murphy for fourth place at 1.90 meters. Baker refused to jump off thereby getting sixth place.

	RUNNING BROAD JUMP	
Held at Olympic Games for first time.		
1. Peterson	Sweden	7.15 meters
2. Johnson	U. S.	7.09 1-2 meters
3. Abramson	Sweden	7.08 meters
4. Templeton	U. S.	6.96 meters
5. Aastad	Norway	6.88 1-2 meters
6. Franksson	Sweden	6.67 meters

HOP, STEP AND JUMP.

World’s Record:	50 ft. 11 in., made by D. F. Ahearn, U. S., 1909.

Olympic Record:	14.76	meters	made	by	C.	Lindblom,	Sweden,	Stock-

holm, 1912.		
1. Timlos	Finland	14.50 1-2 meters
2. Jansson	Sweden	14.48 meters
3. Almlof	Sweden	14.27 meters
4. Sahling	Sweden	14.17 1-2 meters
5. Landors	U. S.	14.17 meters
6. Ahearn	U. S.	14.08 meters

FOLE VAULT.

World’s Record: 13 ft. 3 9-16 in., made by F. K. Foss, Chicago, 1919. Olympic Record: 3.95 meters made by H. S. Babcock, U. S., Stockholm, 1912.

1.	F. K. Foss, U. S., 4.09 meters (13 ft. 5 1-8 in.), New World’s Record.
242

400 METER FREE STYLE. MEN

Olympic Record:	5	min. 24 2-5 sec., made by G. R. Hodgson, Canada,

Stockholm, 1912.

1.	Norman Ross, U. S. Illinois A. C., 5 min. 26 4-5 sec.

2.	Ludy Langer, U. S. Honolulu

3.	Nernot, Canada.

4.	F. K. Kahele, U. S. Navy.

4OO METER BREAST STROKE. MEN.

Olympic Record, 6 min., 29 3-5 sec., made by W. Bathe, Germany, Stockholm, 1912.

1.	Malmroth, Sweden, 6 min. 31 4-5 sec.

2.	Henning, Sweden

3.	Aaltonen, Finland

4.	J. Howell, U. S. Olympic Club, San Francisco.

I5OO METER FREE STYLE. MEN.

Olympic Record:	22	min. made by G. R. Hodgson, Canada, Stock-

holm, 1912.

1.	Norman Ross, U. S. Illinois A. C., 22 min. 23 i-j sec.

2.	Vernot, Canada.

3.	Beaurepaire, Australia

4.	F. A. Kahele, U. S. Navy

5.	E. T. Bolden, U. S. Illinois A. C.

800 METER RELAY RACE MEN.

Each contestant to swim 200 meters.

„ Olympic Record:	10	min. n 1-5 sec., made by Australia, Stockholm

1912.

1.	United States, 10 min. 4 2-5 sec. (New Olympic Record).

Team composed of:

Duke Kahanamoku, Honolulu Norman Ross, Illinois A. C.

Perry McGillivray, Illinois, A. C.

P. Kealoha, Honolulu

2.	Australia •

3.	England

HIGH DIVING PLAIN, MEN

1.	Vollman, Sweden

2.	Skogland, Sweden

3.	Jansson, Sweden

There were no United States finalists.

HIGH DIVING (variety) MEN.

5 and 10 Meters.	v

1.	C. Pinkston, U. S., Olympic Club, San Francisco

2.	Allerr, Sweden

3.	H. Prieste, U. S., Los Angeles A. C.

6.	L. J. Bahlback, U. S., New York A. C.

SPRINGBOARD DIVING (MEN).

i and 3 meters.

1.	L. E. Kuehn, U. S., Multnomah A. C. Portland, Ore.

Digitized by

Google
243

2.	C. Pinkston, U. S., Olympic Club, San Francisco.

3.	J. L. Balbach, U. S., New York, A. C.

IOO METERS FREE STYLE. WOMEN

Olympic Record: 1 min. 19 4-5 sec., made by Fanny Durack, Australia,. Stockholm, 1912.

1.	Ethelda Bleibtrey, U. S. Women’s Swimming As^’n. N. Y., 1 min. 13 3-5 sec. (New Olympic record)

2.	Irene Guest, U. S. Philadelphia

3.	Mrs. Francis Cowells Schroth, U. S., San Francisco.

300 METERS FREE STYLE WOMEN

World’s Record:	4	min.	33	sec.

Olympic Record: 4 min. 33 2-5 sec.

1.	Ethelda Bleibtrey, U. S., 4 min. 24 sec. (New World’s Record),. Women’s Swimming Ass’n., New York.

2.	Margaret Woodbridge, U. S., Detroit A. C.

3.	Mrs. Frances Cowells Schroth, U. S., San Francisco

5.	Eleanor Uhl, U. S., Philadelphia

4OO METER RELAY RACE WOMEN

Team of 4 each to swim 100 meters Free Style.

1. United States, 5 min. n 4-5 sec. (New Olympic Record).

Team composed of:

Miss Ethelda Bleibtrey, Women’s Swimming Ass’n. N. Y.

Miss Irene Guest, Philadelphia.

Mrs. Frances Cowells Schroth, San Francisco Miss Margaret Woodbridge, Detroit A. C.

^2. England

3.	Sweden

HIGH DIVING PLAIN. WOMEN

4 and 8 Meters

1.	Miss Fryland, Denmark

2.	Miss Armstrong, England

3.	Miss Oliver, Sweden 4-

5.	Miss Ailecn Riggin, U. S. (New York)

6.	Miss Betty Grimes, U. S. (Minneapolis)

SPRING BOARD DIVING WOMEN.

1.	Aileen Riggin, U. S., New York

2.	Helen Wainright, U. S., New York.

3.	Thelma Payne, U. S., Portland, Ore.

Aileen Riggin of New York is only 13 years old while her chum Helen Wainwright aJbo of New York is 14 years of age. They were the youngest prize winners at the Olympic Games.

BOXING.

TEAM.

1.	England	11	points

2.	United States	10	points

3.	Canada	9	points

4.	J France I . , 6 points

( Denmark J t1c 6	points

Digitized by CaOOQle
244

INDIVIDUAL.

112 lb. Class:	•

F. DeGenero, U. S. (Paulist A. C. New York) defeated Peterson, Denmark.

135 lb. Class:

Sam Mosberg, U. S. (Pastime A. C. N. Y.) defeated Johansen, Denmark. 175 lb. Class:

Edward Eagan, U. S. (Yale University) defeated Sorsdal.

United States did not place in the 118, 126, 147, 160 and Heavyweight Classes.

a—■ ----------------- ■	—	.—-g

Physiology and hygien

D. M. F. KROGH, M.' D.

□ —.......— " ■- ■ ■ > »■ ■■■

BY D. M. F. KROGH, M. D

The “American Journal of Public Health,” issue of March, 1920, is devoted mainly to Child Hygiene. Frederick S. Crum, Ph. D. assistant statistician of the Prudential Life Ins. Co., Newark, N. J. in an article read before the Section on Public Health Administration, Am. Publ. Health Assoc., at New Orleans, La., Oct. 2’8, 1919, points out the need for “bettered scientific methods in infant and pre-school care; extension of school hygiene, medical inspection and physical training, more extensive health education of the people and the extension of industrial sanitation and industrial hygiene/’ Dealing mainly with the question:	“What should be done in the

Control of Degenerative Diseases,” after a discussion he finishes his paper as follows:	“In conclusion, let me eiyitynerate very briefly some of the prin-

cipal methods which, in my opinion, will go a long way towards controlling the premature mortality from degenerative diseases if they are extended and correlated under some well-devised system of Federal and State Health Administration such as has recently been put into effect in Great Britain and Canada, through the establishment of Ministries of Health:

1.	An extension of the most scientific methods of infant care and medical supervision.

2.	An extension of the most scientific methods of care and supervision of children of pre-school age.

3.	An extension of school hygiene, in which shall be included medical inspection and physical training of children in the grade schools, high schools and institutions of higher learning. This also includes provision for school lunches wherever there is need for the same.

4.	A continued and even more intensive and wide-spread scientific educational propaganda in the principles of good personal habits, including cleanliness, diet, exercise, proper recreation, etc. This education should also include instruction in the principles of personal safety and of industrial, public, and home accident prevention. The need for periodical dental and other physical examination should be a part of such propaganda.

5. An extension of the work, now so well done In many large industrial plants, of industrial sanitation. This should include factory good housekeeping, which in turn includes cleanliness, good lighting, good ventilation,

Digitized by Google
245

the elimination so far as possible of dusts, fume»,gasses, industrial poisons, etc.

6.	Industrial hygiene. A very considerable emphasis has been placed upon this factor in recent years. The principles have already been worked out quite satisfactorily in some countries and in many plants and establishments in this country. The factors in industrial hygiene are numerous. Undue fatigue should be avoided; there should be provision for physical examinations of employees and for industrial clinics; recreational facilities should be made available to employees wherever possible and industrial cafeterias have been found of inestimable value in certain plants where good eating facilities are otherwise difficult to obtain.

Allen J. McLaughlin, Assistant Surgeon General, U. S. Public Health Service, Washington, D. C., read a paper at the same meeting as above on “An Ideal Program for Child Hygiene”. In this a nation-wide program is recommended to include Federal assistance to the states not to exceed fifty per cent of the cost, with the states effecting an immediate stock-taking of baby saving machinery, together with the pooling of resources.

In an address at this meeting Clarence W. East, M. D., of the Illinois State Department of Health, on “The Illinois Program in Child Hygiene for the Coming Year” said:

“In its child hygiene work Illinois will use its health centers for a foundation and pursue salesmanship methods for follow-up. Rural public health centers, child hygiene stations and public school nurse units are to be established and all these agencies worked in co-ordination.

(0 To render service of a striking type such as reconstructive work for crippled children.

(2)	To co-ordinate nursing agencies.

(3)	To establish child welfare stations in every place where public health nursing is done.

(4)	To establish public school nursing.

(5)	To establish rural public health nursing centering usually in the school houses”.

The “Need of Standardization in School Hygiene Methods” was discussed by H. O. Jones, Ph. G., M. D. Asst. Bureau Chief; in Charge of Div. of Child Hygiene, Department of Health, Chicago, 111. He said in part:

“The time is ripe for a national campaign in educating communities about safeguards for healthy development of school children. There is urgent need for this. Standards do not exist, nor are there means of enforcing any. School hygiene is truly formless with conflicting information and advice.

Grace Whitford, M. D. of Ozona, Fla., read a paper entitled “School Hygiene for Rural Communities”. An opportunity for the rural school child equal to that of his city brother is the text of this article. Interest the parents by making the schoolhouse the community center. They will then realize what it stands for. Rest rooms are needed and playgrounds and the general development of the spirit of play, together with medical inspection and regular physical exercise.

The New York Medical Journal, April 3, 1920, published an article written by Dr. C. S. Potts of Philadelphia on “The Effects of Alcohol”. While not attempting to say anything good of the use of alcohol as a beverage, Potts endeavors to show that statements of its bad effects on the human race are

Digitized by Tooele
246

exaggerated. He also protests against allowing hysteria, hypocrisy and cowardice to influence the settlement of medical questions. It has long seemed to him that if alcohol was nearly as potent a factor in causing mental and physical deterioration as is claimed by many, by this time the world should be peopled almost entirely with physical and mental weaklings. Therefore, the world, instead of progressing as it has, should have gone backward, and the average length of life should be niuch less in spite of the increase in knowledge and skill in the treatment of disease. Potts believes that most of the indictments of alcohol are based on the results of laboratory work and the study of statistics, and that such evidence is often fallacious and not consistent with actual experience. Potts gives biblical, historical and biographic references to prove his point that alcohol does not cause mental and physical deterioration. Speaking on the effects of alcohol in those who do not use it and do not wish any one else to do so, Potts claims that many such are undoubtedly mentally peculiar. They exhibit a form of bolshevism in that they want to rule or ruin. They alone are right. In furtherance of their views they believe in false statement, vilification, and slander of those who do not agree with them. They refuse to believe conclusive evidence (which according to an old definition means insanity). They advocate confiscation and destruction of legally owned property, illegal exercise of police power, and they tempt people to do the things they protest against, so that they calp show how wicked the world is. Potts is of the opinion that this intolerant exhibition of superiority deliberately shown by this extreme section is based on a form of egoism; it is a consequence of a psychologic self-gratulation and self-esteem which borders on an obsession and is ijegarded by some authorities as pathologic. The burthen of Potts’ paper is summarized as follows: That alcohol is not necessarily a deterrent to good work and to the attainment of greatness; that the world is not going backward in spite of its long continued use of alcohol, and so far as its use is concerned is in no danger of doing so; that every one who uses alcoholic beverages is not per se a drunkard and unable to do his share of the world’s work. Potts does not dispute that it may be a cause of harm, both from the medical and social point of view, but it also, from the former point of view, may be an agent for good. He believes that legislation influenced by perversion of facts, hysteria, hypocrisy and cowardice is of more danger to the country than alcohol. There never was a time when common sense was more needed and never a time when it was less prevalent.—Abstract from “The Journal oj the American Medical Assn A May /, 1920.

makes swimming safe.—The leading article in a Red Cross Bulletin is the first ot three in a series telling of an effort that is to be made to prevent a portion at least of the enormctas toll from drowning. There are about

8.000	deaths a year in the country from this cause and the A. R. C. avows its intention of taking the fear out of swimming and making the waters of our shores a safer playground for the young people. The work was taken up by the Red Cross in 1914 and the result has been an organization with life saving corps at different stations along the coast. There are three sections now in operation, for boys, women, and men, the latter of which has now

500.000	members. The slogan of the corps is:	“Everybody a swimmer

and every swimmer a life saver.’’

Digitized by CjOOQie
B-

B-

Im. Carl Schrader, for many years connected with Dr. D. A. Sargent in conducting the physical training work at Harvard University, has resigned his place and will henceforth devote all his time to Dr. Sargent’s Normal School of Physical Education at Cambridge, Mass.

In physical education, signal advances are to be recorded. The 1918 reports of the board of education, of the chief medical officer of the board, and of the London County Council show the swift breaking down of the artificial dividing walls between the physical well-being of the schools an d of the nation at large. Perhaps the most concrete advance is the actual demand for national legal authorization of thorough medical inspection o f schools as an indispensable prerequisite to universal physical improvement .

The board must be satisfied that provision has been made for the medical inspection of all children admitted to the school in the year ending on the 31st of March, and of all children between 12 and 13 years of age, together with all children over 13 years of age who have not already been examined after reaching the age of 12. The board will also require to be satisfied that provision has been made for the medical inspection of all children between 8 and 9 years of age.

The report of the chief medical officer records an increasing number of local authorities that have organized medical treatment of school chil dren along most or all of the following lines:

M Adequate scheme of medical inspection and diagnosis.

(£) Adequate system of school nursing.

(c)	School clinics, medical, surgical, and dental.

(d)	Arrangements with hospitals for treatment of school children.

(e)	Arrangements for supply of spectacles.

(f)	Establishment of remedial treatment centers for physical deformities.

(£) Adequate system of following up and reinspection of children found defective.

(h) Facilities for open-air education in public elementary schools.

(/) Creation of special classes of schools for organically defective children.

Within the past year, the board has appointed organizers of physical training, whose duty is to train elementary teachers in the best methods of instruction in physical exercise. Excellent material for such appointments was at hand in the considerable number of women teachers of gymnastics, already trained in the two-year courses in Swedish gymnastics; and in the demobilized ex-soldiers who had had intensive physical training in the armies.

Within the past year, a ministry of health has been created by act of Parliament to take over the school medical service; and far-reaching legal co-operation has been arranged between it and the board of education. Among their most important joint actions is that establishing the training of health visitors in primary schools. The board of education has charge of the courses,

N OTES AND COMMENT^

Digitized by
^248

and hereafter all persons seeking such appointment must have had approved specialized training, though for the present its specified form is left to the local authorities.

The National Education Association will be reorganized on the “delegate plan,” by which the business of the association will be transacted by representatives chosen by the active members in the several States. This conclusion was reached at the Salt Lake City meeting, from July 4 to ia A heavy vote was cast in favor of reorganization, which, it is claimed, will place the association on a democratic basis and make it possible for the classroom teachers of the Nation to have a voice in the business of the organization.

Dr. Joseph Swain, for the committee on salaries, tenure, and pensions, presented a preliminary report on the tenure of teachers. He declared that “the spoils system still prevails in school-teaching at a time when it has been eliminated from civil service positions throughout the country”. He said: “Whatever the customary practice may be, in law security of tenure does not prevail over a large part of the country. While the towns and cities show a tendency to encourage stability and permanence, even in many places of size the tenure of office of administrative officers is limited either _ by law or by the rules of the appointing boards. No matter how long a term may be prQvided, the teacher who feels that he must stand for election at the close of that term must inevitably be beset by anxiety, even though unconsciously.

“Only five States—California, Massachusetts, Montana, New' Jersey, and Oregon—by law recognize the principle of permanent tenure for teachers, and two other States—Ohio and Pennsylvania—permit the appointment of teachers for three-year terms. The conditions of appointment of principals and superintendents are only slightly better.”

Miss Margaret Haley, of Chicago, discussing the tenure report, said that it failed to mention one of the most serious problems of tenure to-day, namely, interference with the right of teachers to belong to organizations of their own choosing.

The report of the commission on the emergency in education was presented to the convention by Dr. George D. Strayer, of New York. He urged the passage by Congress of the Smith-Towner bill, which provides for a Federal department of education, with its head a member of the President’s Cabinet. Dr. Strayer vehemently denied that any centralization of educational authority is contemplated in the bill, as charged by its opponents, and declared that the passage of the bill was the most important task before the educators ol the Nation to-day. He said:

“We bel ieve that the friends of public education are more numerous than the enemies. We are confident that we are approaching the day when education shall have its place in the councils of the nation, when a secretary shall sit at the Cabinet table to propose for the consideration of the President and his associates such measures as will make for the realization of a more effective system of public schools and education.”

The commission’s report also dealt with the problems of teachers’ salaries, and recommended an increase of as much as 100 per cent as compared with salaries paid in 1914. The commission expressed its belief in the professional organization of teachers into local groups and State associations,

Digitized by

Google
\

249

but declared, that the professional organization of teachers should not affiliate with any other body. Whatever may be our judgment with regard to the legitimacy of the program of organized labor, said the report, teachers as a group can not federate with labor for the realization of their aims and at the same time hdpe to keep the confidence of the whole people.

Following the discussion of the commission's report Dr. P. P. Claxton, • United States Commissioner of Education, spoke on the question of teachers ' salaries. He advocated an average annual salary* of $2,000 for all teachers, city and country, with individual salaries running as high as $4,000, $5,000 and $6,000 for teachers of demonstrated ability. He pointed out that this would be three times the actual average of 1917 and would be an additional cost for the schools of the Nation of a billion and a half. He was convinced, however, that the public was willing to pay the bill.

Will D. Wood, State superintendent of public education of California, discussed “The recognition of education as related to our national life”. The faults of the public-school system, he said, are not faults of inefficiency so much as they are faults of insufficiency. There has been insufficiency in vocational training, in Americanization, in elementary education, and in the physical development of our people. Between April 1, 1917, and April 1, 1919, the United States spent for the war $21,850,000,000. The total amount expended by the United States and all the States and Territories,, counties, school districts, and municipalities of our country for public education between 1787 and 1917 was only $14,400,000,000. In other words, we expended 50 per cent more in two years for the purpose of killing Germans than we expended in 130 years previously for making American citizens through public education. And yet it was to the men trained in our schools that America turned in her hour of trial for the means to defeat the foe.

The session on health education was said to be one of the liveliest of the convention. Dr. Thomas D. Wood, of Columbia University; Miss Sally Lucas Jean, director of the Child Health Organization; and others spoke, describing the modern health crusade and the methods of promoting health work on a big scale. Malnutrition among American school children was pronounced to be a serious menace, affecting the children of well-to-do parents as well as the children of poor parents. The dramatic presentation of health habits was exemplified before the convention by Miss Ann Raymond, a health nurse of New York City, in the guise of a health fairy.

The association advocated changes in the administration of the Smith-Hughes law for vocational education under the Federal Board of Vocational Education, and emphasized the point that general or cultural education must not be over-shadowed by vocational education. Such changes were favored as would make the Federal Board or whatever agency is placed in charge of the work “avoid interference with the autonomy of the States in the plans and management of vocational education”.

In the resolutions adopted in the final session, the following expressions appear regarding the Smith-Towner bill:

“We call attention once more to the singularly valuable features of the Smith-Towner bill, to the program that it sets for the reduction of adult illiteracy, for the Americanization of the immigrant population, for the vast extension of health education, for the adequate preparation of teachers, and for the creation of a department of education under a secretary who shall have a seat in the President's Cabinet. We reiterate the fact that each item

Digitized by ^ooQle
250

of this program strikes at an outstanding weakness of American education which the experiences of the war set in high relief.

“We call the people’s attention to the fact that these problems are still with us and that unaided State and local action has failed in any appreciable measure even to begin the solution on a nation-wide basis. The Smith-Towner bill is the only measure that has been proposed to cope with ail of these problems.”

Other resolutions were passed indorsing education for citizenship; increased recognition for State departments of education; the health education program of such agencies*as the Child Health Organization, the National Tuberculosis Association, Modern Health Crusade, and the United States Bureau of Education; an international bureau of education as a means of establishing democracy throughout the world and advancing the interests of free people.

In relation to the training of teachers the association declared for immediate improvement in the preparation of teachers, a minimum of four years’ professional training following high-school graduation, and selection of teachers on a rigorous basis of merit.

The resolutions were adopted following an address by Congressman Simeon D. Fess, of Ohio, chairman of the Committee on Education of the House of Representatives, who pledged his support to the legislative program of the teachers.

Officers of the association for the coming year were elected, as follows: President, Fred M. Hunter, superintendent of schools, Oakland, Calif.

The directors expressed their preference for Philadelphia as the next meeting place, over Des Moines, Iowa. The executive committee will decide which of the two cities shall entertain the 1921 convention, after visiting both places.

The directors also elected T. E. Finnegan, Pennsylvania State superintendent of schools, as member of the executive committee.—School Life.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION DEPARTMENT, N. E. A. MEETING AT SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 6.

At the business meeting it was voted that the department should be called the Physical Education Department.

The officers elected for the coming year were: Prof. Frank L. Kleeberg- ' er, President, (University of California); Dr. William Burdick, Vice-President, (Baltimore, Maryland). These two men were empowered to select a secretary.

At the luncheon Dr. William Burdick, the State Physical Education Director of Maryland, responded to the toast of “A Birds-eye-view of the American Physical Education Association Convention”; Prof. Frank L. Kleeberger, University of California, spoke on the “Western Section of the American Physical Education Association”; Mr. E. B. de Groot, Chief Scout Executive of Los Angeles spoke on the “Boy Scouts”; Prof. J. R. Griffiths of the University of Utah and the president of the Utah Physical Educa-cation Society spoke on “Physical Education in Utah”. Mr. William E. Day, the Supervisor* of Physical Education in the Public Schools of Salt Lake City, was the toastmaster. .

Digitized by Google
261

Because the steamer Mt. Vernon lost one of its propellers somewhere along the coast of the southern part of the United States it was compelled to go to Norfolk, Va. for repairs. And because there were several thousand Czecho-Slovak troops aboard the Mt. Vernon bound for Europe from China via the Panama Canal the United States was treated to, perhaps, the first gymnastic festival of foreign troops on our soil.

Im. Fred. Engelhart, the physical director of the Naval Y. M. C. A. at Norfolk writes as follows:

“I am sending you herewith a program and several clippings of the work I am carrying on here. The landing of these troops was a great thing for me, as it gave me an opportunity to put across a piece of work never before seen in Norfolk. Most of the soldiers understand German, so I managed to get along fine with them. They are one of our Allies, and so we have made their stay here a pleasant one. They number 3000. These men were forced by Austria to help her fight Russia; this they would not do, so they escaped and went over to the Russians and helped them. After the war they made their way to Siberia, and after remaining there for awhile, sailed by steamer to San Francisco, then thro the Panama Canal, and somewhere along the South Atlantic coast one of the propellers was lost, forcing the ship to abandon her course and head for Norfolk Navy Yard for repairs. The troops are stationed at the Army Supply Base, and we are doing big things towards providing entertainment and recreation. The men can’t always understand American pictures but they grasp the spirit of American fun.”

The program of the celebration on July 10th was as follows:

1.	Selection by the Czechoslovak Military Band.

2.	Chorus of 60 voices, Czecho-Slovak Troops.

3.	Grand march by all participants.

4.	Sokol exercises.

5.	Gymnastic Exhibition on Parallel Bars and Side Horse.

6.	Sack Race, 50 yards.

7.	75 yards dash.

8.	Rifle Drill.

9.	Exercises in Groups.

10.	Running broad jump.

11.	Pole vault.

12.	16-lb. shot put.

13.	Tug of war (10 men on each side).

14.	Football match (Soccer).

The local papers comment upon the affair as follows:

More than 6,000 Norfolk citizens, Czecho-Slovak troops, officials and men from the army and naval bases attended the combined grand athletic, gymnastic and field day exhibition given yesterday afternoon at the army supply base by the Czecho athletes.

It is probably the first time in history that a series of such athletic events, composed of all foreigners, especially foreign soldiers, has been staged in America, and the complete success of the affair yesterday was shown when Mayor Albert Roper expressed the desire that the Slovaks repeat their performance Wednesday afternoon at City' Park for the benefit of local citizens.

TTie Czecho-Slovak military band rendered several selections, among them the Czecho national anthem in the opening of the big contest. They have\pneiof the best orchestras ever heard in Norfolk, and scored a big hit

Digitized by t^.ooQLe
252

yesterday. Accompanying the band was a chorus of sixty voices chosen from among the troops, who also featured in the applause.

The army base civilian baseball diamond had been prepared for the occasion, and afforded an excellent field for the athletic events that followed. Opening the athletic part of the program, a grand march of all participants was staged.

Sokol exercises by a whole company of troops proved to be a novel feature, and scored a great hit with the Americans. Their exercises, while not more strenuous than those of the American army, are a great deal more complicated and require greater training, and as a result practically every soldier of that romantic little country is an athlete of some sort. They are great lovers of outdoor sports, and while most of them are all-round men, a number excel in individual lines.

BOTULISM.

During the latter part of 1919 numerous cases of poisoning, and a number of deaths, were reported in different parts of the country, as a result of eating olives, or certain canned vegetables. These deaths were caused by botulism—literally “sausage poisoning”.

Botulism, according to a bulletin prepared by the Department of Medical Information of the League of Red Cross Societies, and made public by the American Red Cross, has in the past usually arisen from consumption of home-preserved food which was not correctly packed but events such as those noted above had led recent investigators to conclude that infection with botulism through commercially-packed foodstuffs, while rare, is by no means impossible.

The obvious method of protection against botulism, which has a high mortality, is to refrain from eating preserved foods which are noticeably spoiled. The presence of the Bacillus Botulinus is usually indicated by a sour odor, or by some other plain evidence that food containing it is unfit to be consumed. While the presence of the bacillus has been noted only in foods which have been prepared for preservation in cans, jars or other containers, ordinary prudence demands the rejection of any comestible which, by smell, taste or appearance, shows signs of being spoiled.

Bacillus botulinus was first isolated by van Ermengem in 1^96. It is of the anaerobic type; that is, it cannot exist where oxygen is present. When taken into the human system, it lodges in the digestive tract, and the toxins, produced there spread over the body. Inasmuch as the first symptoms of botulinus do not appear until it is too late to employ the stomach pump or emetics, and since the only treatment is a serum of doubtful value, the fight must be devoted mainly to keeping up the sufferer's strength and combating the various symptoms as they occur.

Botulism is somewhat similar, in its early symptoms, to encephalitis lethargica, a disease which is very much in the popular mind at present, and an epidemic of the latter disease in England in 1918 was wrongly diagnosed as botulism, supposedly due to the war diet of the people. The onset of both diseases is acute. The first noticeable symptoms are similar, and consist of dimness of sight, often followed by coma. But there the resemblance ends. Encephalitis produces a slight rise of temperature; botulism-

Digitized by v^ooQle
253

t

usually does not. There are rarely two cases of encephalitis in the same household, while botulism usually affects at the beginning several people, all of whom have partaken of infected food. Finally, death from botulism usually occurs within four days, accompanied by varying symptoms, while encephalitis tends to produce prolonged coma, and to become in a sense chronic.

Ptomaine poisoning, which also may result from eating bad food, is not associated with the presence of the botulinus bacillus, but in the past, in the absence of exact methods of diagnosis, it often was confused with botulism. Figures for the United States show only 150 cases of botulism, with 97 deaths, in the whole history of the disease there.

Food containing the Bacillus botulinus may be either animal or vegetable, and in many cases the death rate from eating poisoned vegetable products has been excessively high, due probably to the fact that preserved vegetables often are served raw, as in salad, while meats are more apt to be cooked, with a constant diminution of the virulence of the botulinus germ. German statistics of several epidemics show mortality in cases of consumption of infected vegetables to be as high as 52.3 per cent, that from smoked meat and bacon being 19 per cent, from sausage at 17 per cent, and that from fish and lobsters only 10 per cent, the mortality tending to diminish in proportion to the probability of the food being cooked before consumption. A curious fact in relation to the epidemics of botulism arising from the eating of poisoned olives ;s that in cases when the olives had been washed before they were eaten, the disease appeared in milder form, or did not attack those persons who had taken the precaution to wash their olives.

The sterilizing methods adopted by the corporations which distribute preserved foods seem largely to eliminate the possibility of botulinus infection. It is usually in the cases of products of isolated unscrupulous packers, or where foods which have been rejected by the original consignees are sold at low prices in second-rate stores that there is danger of botulism. The bacilli of this disease may develop in home-preserved foods through insufficient sterilization of the food or of the container; or through the use of faulty methods of excluding air from the sealed container, thereby allowing putrefaction.

The great majority of the commercially prepared foods are absolutely safe when they leave the packing plants; but the public should insist on getting undamaged containers, since even the best of these receptacles may be damaged by careless handling. The proportion of safety in tinned foods is shown strikingly by an experiment carried on at Harvard University, where a lunch club experimented over a period of 16 months with 1750 cans of foods. Absolutely no ill effects were discovered as a result of this investigation.

The botulinus bacilli are not found in raw foodstuffs, or in products which have been correctly prepared. Observance of scrupulous care in preserving food for future consumption eliminates the possibility of the spreading of botulism, which, while it fortunately is not of frequent occurrence nevertheless is one of those maladies with which medical science has not yet definitely learned to cope.

Digitized by tjOOQle
254

Miss Jessie H. Bancroft has lectured at several western universities this summer during a trip to the Pacific coast, including Leland Stanford Junior University, the State Agricultural College of Oregon and the University of Saskatchewan, Canada. Miss Bancroft’s subjects have been various phases of health work, the public lectures being on “Health Ideals in Education,” “Play in Education,” and “Posture and the Work of the American Posture League,” the latter illustrated with lantern slides.

MATERNITY BENEFIT SYSTEMS IN CERTAIN FOREIGN

COUNTRIES*

Neatly all the leading industrial countries of the world have some kind of maternity insurance system. A recent report issued by the United States Children’s Bureau* includes a study of the systems adopted by Australia, Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Great Britain, Italy, Luxemburg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Russia, Sweden and Switzerland. Particular attention is given to the British system because industrial conditions in that country most closely resemble those in the United States, and because the results of the system have directed attention to the needs of the wage-earning mother in an especially striking manner.

There are three kinds of maternity insurance systems now in use in the above-mentioned countries:

1.	Where no cash benefit is provided. The mother is furnished both

before and after confinement with skilled nurses and medical attendance, for which she pays if she is able. Example:	New	Zealand.

2.	The State furnishes outright a sum of money from State funds.

Example:	Australia,	which pays the substantial sum of $25 on occasion of

child birth.

3.	The insurance method. Contributions are collected from the employer and insured person and sometimes from the State. Money, medical aid and institutional care are available on the birth of the child. Example Great Britain.

Most of the systems provide aid for the unmarried mother. In New Zealand only is she excluded.

To avoid creating additional administrative machinery these maternity systems have been combined, whenever possible, with the sickness insurance

systems.

In 1913—14 the Commonwealth of Australia paid out $3,284,839 in maternity benefits, a sum representing 3 per cent of the consolidated revenue of the Government. In France, the National Government pays each year $1,000,000 and the local governments another $1,000,000 in maternity allowances. Under the abnormal conditions caused by the war the German Government appropriated 5,000,000 marks monthly for maternity benefits.

The operation ot the British maternity benefit system is revealing much valuable information in connection with the general question of the relation of economic conditions to public health. It has been made clear, for ex-

* Matei'nity benefit systems in certain foreign countries, by Henry J’. Harris, 79/9, 206 />/>. United States Children s Bureau Publication 57. Legal series

No. ,3.

Digitized by o.oo<?le
255

i

ample, that expectant mothers were in many cases under the necessity of running every kind of risk, because they could not afford to cease work. The assurance of receiving the maternity benefit encourages them to seek, aiid enables them to obey, medical advice during pregnancy, thus protecting themselves, partially at least, from poverty and the evils of ignorance. The relief afforded from insecurity, with its attendant strain, is emphasized by insured persons when expressing appreciation of the benefit.

The tendency seems to be toward compulsory systems. France and Great Britain, although previously opposed to it, went on record at the last International Congress on Social Insurance at Rome in 1908, as favoring the compulsory plan. No country which has tried a form of maternity insurance has ever abandoned the plan; on the contrary, amending laws have in practically every case extended the system.

A POTATO RACE ON HORSEBACK.

As played by the cowboys of the Southwest, the potato race is not the mild affair we are familiar with at evening socials. Down there the game is flayed by eight mounted men, four on each side, and each player has an opportunity to display all his skill in horsemanship. A small square box is set at each goal. In the middle of the field is a third box, filled with potatoes. Each rider is provided with a long, sharp-pointed pole, much like the lances carried l?y the knights in the tournaments of old. At the crack of the gun, the riders dash at the box in the center of the field, each rider trying to spear a potato and carry it to the box back of his goal. At the same time, the guards on each slide try to prevent the scoring of their opponents by blocking them, and by knocking the tuber off the lance when an opposing player has speared a potato. At the end of eight minutes the game is stopped, and the side having the greater number of potatoes in its goal box, wins.

IMPORTANT NOTICE.

To Members of The Middle West Society of Physical Education:

The records of this society were lost in the mails. Will you help the new secretary by sending her the following information?

Name.

Home address.

School address.

Statement telling whether your 1920 dues are or are not paid.

The bulletins will be sent you as soon as this information is given to

Louise Kent Hale Box 82 Station E Cleveland, Ohio

Digitized by

Google
Gymnasium Apparatus Playground Equipment Steel Lockers

Established

1873

Years of intensive specializing in these particular lines have made MED ART products pre-eminent—the first choice of those who know—and who consider quality and permanence as well as price.

Write For Catalog “L”

It is a recognized guide on Gymnasium, Playground, Swimming Pool and Locker Room planning' equipment and operation. Sent on request to those who are interested. Write for it on your letterhead.

Fred Medart Mfg. Co.

3500 DeKalb St., St, Louis, Mo.

Y. M. C. A. COLLEGE

SPRINGFIELD, MASS,

TRAINS FOR THE CHRISTIAN PHYSICAL DIRECTORSHIP

Pour year course for High School Graduates. Two year course for College Graduates. Degree B. P. £. (Bachelor of Physical Education) granted. Summer course gives full credit in regular course. For information address

ELMER BERRY, Associate Director

Y. M. G. A. COLLEGE. SPRINGFIELD, MASS.

Newark Normal School for Physical Education and Hygiene Offers

A TWO YEAR NORMAL COURSE in the Theory and Practice of Physical Education and Hygiene.

Mid-year High School graduates may enter February 1st.

For catalogue and particulars write to

HENRY PANZER, Director 182-186 William Street, Newark, New Jersey

PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS’ BUREAU

OP THE

AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

415-419 E. Michigan St., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

COMPETENT TEACHERS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING RECOMMENDED TO SCHOOL OFFICERS AND ASSOCIATIONS FREE OF CHARGE

Registration is restricted to graduates of the Normal School of Gymnastics, and of the Normal College of the American Gymnastic Union