Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. WM. A. OCKER, Hughes High School, Cincinnati, O.

HERMANN (). DREISEL, Chicago Normal School, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 468 E. Water Street, Milwaukee, Wis.

PHYSICAL TRAINING.

(Its place in a Rational Education Discussed by B. F. BOLLER, Superintendent State Reformatory,

Pontiac, III.)

PHYSICAL training constitutes such an important element in pll human culture that it is entitled to be recognized as an indispensable and integral factor in the education of all children and youth. Need I refer to the schools of the ancient Greeks—schools which have been the despair of all the ages—schools which had their basis in physical culture and have produced the greatest sculptor, the foreitaost orator, the first and greatest of original poets, the profoundest philosophers, rhetoricians, historians and ablest legislators of the ages? There schools were not places where pupils sat to absorb the greatest possible amount of mental pabulum, but where they were trained to be producers, where was aroused the passion and power to be, to do, and to create.

SOUND BODY, SOUND BRAIN.

The}' had learned far better than we that both body and brain deteriorate under exclusive mental cultivation.

The training of the body for the sake of better brain and purer heart, is ever the method of Nature, our great teacher—the method of

Digitized by U.ooQle
—26—	,

healthful play. From this innate play—impulse—from the vital energy of this universal play-germ, have sprung the kindergarten, the athletic sports to which British and American youth are so devoted, the systematic gymnastics of the Swedes and Germans, the principles and methods of the New Education, as set fourth by Rousseau, Froebel, Pestalozzi, Parker, Hall and others. This kind of education is even more essential for girls than for boys. “If strong be the frames of the mothers, the sons shall make laws for the people.” This education is for future generations.

PUT YOURSELF IN CHILD’S PLACE.

Let us fancy ourselves little girls wriggling for six hours a day on uncomfortable seats, twisting ourselves into impossible shapes in order to get relief. Do you blame us little animals, literally aching for the freedom of kittens, pupptes, and lambs, if we demand of our teachers at least five minutes gymnastic or play-exercises at the end of every hour, and a few full breaths of God’s pure air? Especially when you remember that soon it will not be proper for little girls any longer to romp out of doors, with the boys; indeed, it will be exceedingly unladylike; for then we must turn up our hair, lengthen our frocks, put on corsets, and “we can’t be ‘Tomboy’ any longer.”

No matter how prim, and ascetic their teachers, or parents mav be, the children of every generation are playing animals. And it is fortunate for the world that it is so, else the race would have been killed off ere this by Dame Fashion and that devouring monster whom men call Business, and that cramming and forced drudgery which some call “Getting an Education”—a system of Stuffing which in the dining-room would be called Gluttony.

The true education is based on that most sacred, because most vital, of all impulses— the Play Instinct. The great teacher came that we might have life, and that we might have it abundantly, that overflowing, joyous, radiant life of the child, for of such is the kingdom of the true education. Only he who has learned to do his work with the zeal and energy of earnest, joyous play will ever come to realize true success as the victory of life—the life which constitutes symmetry and harmony of the intellectual and moral forces, which controls self and all its faculties, and has mastery over nature and men.

PRODUCES COMPLETE MASTERY OF THE WILL.

One object of physical education is to make the body subservient to the will—to increase and maintain health, strength, activity, dexterity, and efficiency for the purpose of symmetry and proportion. It means a complete mastery of the will over the functions and activities of the body. Therefore we see how essential to the will, and the development of will power, is the complete training of the bodily activities and forces; for the will with a poor instrument can do no more than can the mechanic with a poor tool.

The end of all training is to reduce frailty, to develop the power of thinking and doing.

Since without muscular tissue we cannot live or move, it is evident that bodily exercise is at once a means as well as an end of mental and

Digitized by CjOOQle

/
moral training. We all admit that without a good physical foundation there is little that can be permanently built along the line of intellectual or moral superstructure. But this is also true: The functional improvement of the nervous mechanism is the most important effect of muscular exercise; in other words, muscular training develops brain power and is therefore to be reckoned with as a definite and very positive means of building the intellectual and moral system. Says Dr. Crichton-Browne, an eminent authority on insanity and kindred diseases:

“The muscles not only, by the locomotion which they render possible, widen the field from which our sense impressions are gathered, but also, by the experience which their own activities involve, expand our mental resources a thousand fold.” An analysis of our ideas at once reveals to us that we have few that are of purely sensory origin, but that certain motor elements enter into their composition. “Therefore,” says Dr. Hartwell, of Johns Hopkins University, “the centers of motor ideation require to be exercised in order that they may be properly developed and may contribute usefully to mental processes. The defective exercise of any group of muscles during the growth period of its own particular nerve center will not only result in the dwarfing of that center, but a corresponding hiatus or a general weakness must exist in the whole mental fabric.”

CHANGES CHARACTER OF MENTAL ACTION.

As physical conditions improve, the volume and character of mental action will increasingly prove the reciprocal relation existing between body and mind.

The ordinary work of the classroom is disappointing because not sufficiently far-reaching and penetrating. It would be as reasonable for the truit-grower to expect a great crop of fruit without previous care and cultivation of his orchards and vineyards as for the teacher to expect large intellectual results while bestowing care and training only on the mental side, and ignoring the physical. Mental power requires good physical tissue for support and nourishment, just as good fruit grows from a good tree. A corrupt body tends to produce a corrupt mind. In fact most crimes and vices, and our own sins, are largely of the body.

TENDS TO MORAL FREEDOM.

Physical training is a training for intellectual and moral freedom.

Sir Edwin Chadwick of England, in connection with “The Factory Acts,” says that “the receptivity of the child mind for direct instruction does not exceed three hours daily.” This statement is confirmed by all the leading physiologists. What we are doing now is to flood the child with words, wrapping things up in mysteries which the little brain can not unravel. Mental instruction should be interlarded with manual and physical training. It is not the so-called overwork which breaks down the health of the child. It is not the mental training which keeps the child from being well, but rather the lack of proper mental development which makes him sit still too long at a time, and in a cramped position shut up like a jack-knife. No mental impressions are being received because of a want of variety in work and position, and little is being

Digitized by CaOOQle
—28—*•

gained except weariness and mental disgust. This certainly is anything but intellectual training, and yet this is our boasted educational system. We have not yet learned that animal spirits in children are sacred and divine, because they are results of God’s creative power, and instead of being condemned and to be suppressed are to be trained and controlled.

Over-schooled is generally to be under-educated. A boy-girl is far preferable to a girl-boy.

It is well known that the mental training of idiots and imbeciles is most successfully begun and carried on through muscular lessons, and in the State Reformatory at Elmira, New York, physical culture has been employed with marvelous success in the training of criminal dullards ; in awakening the mentgl powers, and developing moral control in those classes as defectives.

Our experience in the schools of reformatories gives testimony that those characteristics which mark the criminal—viz., the stumbling and faltering step, stooping shoulders, the blear eye and expressionless face— under proper physical training soon give place to the alert and certain step, supple movement, perfect muscular control of the body, luster in the eye, and erect bearing which indicate interest in the daily routine, and hope for the future.—The School Weekly.

ATHLETIC FIELDS.

THE parlors at the Carrollton Hotel at Baltimore, Md., were crowded with the advocates of athletic fields in public parks, and enthusiasm was displayed on all sides. Every section of the city was well represented, proving that the movement is not confined to one or two individual clubs.

After an explanation by Temporary Chairman J. H. Blacklock of the object of the meeting, the Public Park Athletic Association was formally organized by the 11 clubs represented. A number of gentlemen, including Prof. Thomas Cornelius, Central Y. M. C. A.; Karl A. M. Scholtz, of the Turnverein Vorwaerts; Walter A. Cox, Jr., Young Men’s Christian League; Harry K. Montell, Cloverdale Athletic Club, and Harry S. Byrrje, of the Druid Outing Club, outlined the position of their organizations in regard to the plan, and one and all were heartily in favor of it and will support it with their best eflorts.

Mr. John H. Blacklock, unattached, who has been the prime mover in the project from its inception and to whose efforts the improvements at Carroll Park, which were accomplished last year, are mainly due, was unanimously elected president of the new association. E. R. Anger-man, of the Baltimore City College, was elected secretary.

The new association proposes to communicate with other large cities wheye the progress along this line has been considerably faster than in Baltimore and obtain plans of the grounds which they have laid out. Chicago, Boston, Brooklyn, and New York have all paid considerable attention to this need, and in Boston alone there are five separate parks in which a large space is devoted to athletic games alone. These grounds are crowded from the beginning of the season to the end, and in Brook-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-29-

lyn permits must be obtained when the crowds are greatest in order to be allowed to use them. In this way the most advanced ideas concerning the fields can be obtained, and Baltimore will be able to profit by the experience of other cities. A committee, consisting of Karl A. M. Scholtz, of the Turnverein Vorwaerts; Thomas Cornelius, Central Y. M.

C.	A., and J. H. Blacklock, will have charge of securing the data, and will turn them over to the committees for drawing up the plans in the various parks.

In order to inform the Park Board of the formation of the association and to get their views upon the subject, President Blacklock appointed the following committee: J. W. B. Gardiner, Druid Athletic Club, chairman; Harry S. Byrne, Druid Outing Club, and C. R. Angerman, Baltimore City College. The members will wait upon President Clendenin, of the Park Board.

All of the committees appointed to draw up plans for the improvements desired submitted their reports. John C. Legg, Druid Athletic Club, looked after Druid Hill Park, and his report embodied the following changes: Basebal diamond leveled and the backstop repaired; bags for the bases and rubber plates for the home plate and pitcher’s box; house with accommodations for 30 men and six baths; football field leveled and ditch across the middle removed; steps from the drive to the field; a house similar to one on baseball field; an oval track around gridiron, four laps to the mile with a straightaway of 100 yards; a jumping pit, and that tennis courts be “skinned.”

Ms. E. A. Kerr, of St. Leo’s Gymnasium, drew up the plans for Patterson Park-, and these include sodding the baseball diamond, leveling football field, track around football field and a jumping pit. At Carroll Park the improvements, as proposed by President J. H. Blacklock, will require about seven or eight acres. There are already a baseball diamond and a small house upon the grounds, and in the additional space is desired a running track in which will be a football field and jumping pit. The track will be four laps to the mile and about 20 feet wide, with a straight 100-yard dash.

At Clifton Park there is an extensive plot of ground, which, from its position, could easily be utilized for an athletic field. This is bounded by Washington Street, Harford Road, Belt Railroad and the approach to the lake. There are about 40 acres in this field, and this would give plenty of space for the various branches of the sport. In the northern part of the field it is proposed to construct a running track, four laps to the mile and 20 feet wide. Inside of this can be placed a diamond, while on the side of the track would be plenty of room for a jumping pit and several tennis courts. The diamond that exists at present will be considerably improved and a house erected near it. The football field at the park is in excellent condition and nothing will be done to this.—Exch.

—The University School News of Cleveland, 0., is reporting a very successful exhibition at the Cleveland University School under the directorship of Prof. Anderson.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-30-

FIGURE DRILL.

Executed by Thirty-Two Members of the Dayton Turngemeinde at the Y. M. C. A. International Conven-^ tion of Physical Directors, held in Dayton, Ohio, May 1899.

P»y O TTO C. MAUTHE.

Music : March time. Introduction.

X	f	'i	i	n n/r" nJ* j

^-4.—^ 'i-j- 4- +

+ + +Z±i,++ .+ *• + + + + + + y*-

I 1	^	%	fO	.11. M ft	•( i*. AY	At Kt Jt *x

Entrance : From right, double file, on count 15 left face. Fig. 1. 16 counts.

Forward 12 steps, four steps on place. Fig. II. Together =16 Counts.

Digitized by CjOOQie
Transformation : Double ranks of fours. Vi wheel left (4 counts) and form to left obliquely (12 counts!. Fig. III. Together = 16 counts.

Transformation :

Double ranks of fours, Vi wheel left (4 counts); form to left through (ranks) Vi wheel left and right continuous (24counts) mark time (2 counts), left about face (two counts. Fig. IV.

Together'*= 32

counts.

\ v

^	^	_	-V	v\	V	’	.	>'	.

* V + h V \

i	- 4 T

•. i i t	•	j

# / /

\	\	N

* ^ <

MK/ / ^ fK y :4K' \ :-M ; J r

"'/ / M'

Digitized by tjOOQLe
-32-

Transformation : Double ranks, open order, forward, four (small) steps distance, right (double) rank remain on place (12 counts) ; mark time (two counts), left about face (two counts). Fig. V. Together = 16 counts.

\ \

.Hd-----

----

*Mt

H ^-----

H-M-----

-H i*---

S-H *---

>H-L<---



\

\ >

JL

Transformation : Double ranks, *4 wheel left (4 counts) and close order forward, right double rank remains on place (12 counts). Fig. VI. Together = 16 counts.

Digitized by ^ooQle
—33—

Transformation.: Double ranks *4 wheel left (4 counts) and form to left following in flank order (24 counts), 4 steps on place. Fig. VII. Together =32 counts.



Transformation : Seven steps backward, eighth count lockstep right ; eight steps on place, on fifth count the left half (from 17 to 32) about face. Fig. VIII. Together = 16 counts.

Digitized

:ized by Google
Transformation :

Column	Vi wheel

left around center (8 counts); eight steps on plaee,	on fifth

count odd	numbers

from 1 to 15 inclusive ^ and even numbers from \ 18 to 32	inclusive	v

about face.	Fig. IX.	'

Together =16 counts.

\ '

V \

N .

T T

* z*

•j *.

»■%

N

I* .

I*'"

K

I” ^

V '	'	V

' ' \ \ \

+■ b b

+ + 4

Transformation :

Single ranks of eights Vi wheel left (8 counts); eight steps on place, on fifth count about face. Fig. X marked 1st. Repeat three times, marked 2nd, 3rd and 4 th. Together = 64? counts.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
—35—

Transformation:

Prom a front single rank (of eights) to a h n front rank, through Vi 1* turn left or right (of f. individual members), following, outside flan- • ker begins (No. 1 begin ► with turn right, No. 2 with turn left, No. 31 with turn left and No. ^

32 with turn right), b r +“ (8 counts); eight steps	j-

on place, on fifth count

u

£

>» Ut9	'?

JO it iV iC if

J*.

*"~1  •	■ -T	* 1	‘ -r -r -r -i  i		
1  1-				1	
					i  1
r ■ "					
r  •r -	r ■>	>  L •	’ •> fcn	* *	

about face. Fig. XI. frV]e-T Together = 16 counts. j- t Repeat twice = 32 ^ J_________

counts.

Note.—The course of direction is only given in .

Fig. XI for the first 8 * counts. The finish posi- «. tion, in which the members find themselves, b	^ iM

after repeating the trans-	*	.	,	.	,

formation twice is num-	\	f	F	>	9	//	/j

bered.	J	/	i	r

*H	BL-2	E	3  *■ i	r* 1	F- .r  ■r.
f  I -				
1  1 _				1  ■
r  1				1
1  »			-1	
1  l-d	1  *  . -4. -1. j			

I



v \

1	3	>	>	"	/f	'J	v,*	t«	iT	'|

^	^	-r	-r	-r	nr	-r	+*	^	*r	▼

>y >✓ >y

*n 'n ut

Transformation : Inward face (1—15 right, 2—16 left, 17— 31 left, and 18-32 right), file to center (1-15 left, 2-16 right, 17—31 right, 18—32 left), (16 counts); Vi wheel \ right around center

7*n of column,sidestepping

* *

' ' V l V X '

+ f T. T T ^ Ttf’ ^ » 4? 4? -T «r left- on 15th count

a -	:	a	a.	^	;	front	face, 16th count

lockstep with salute, right hand to forehead; hold 8 counts, then march off to right or wait until curtain drops, if on stage. Fig. XII.

\

■Sz-zL	Jrzsrsrfx a. a	4. j.

Digitized by

Google
-36-

ABUSES IN AMATEUR ATHLETICS..

THE recent criticisms by President Eliot upon athletic sports as conducted at Harvard, which, by the way, have borne good fruit in the abolition of some of the evils complained of, and the still more recent action of President Low and the faculty of Columbia in forcing the resignation of the manager of the athletic sports of that college for manifestly improper practices, lend emphasis to an article contributed to the current issue of the Independent by Walter Camp, the football expert and graduate adviser in athletics at Yale, upon abuses in amateur athletics. The appearance of this article at the present time shows that amateur athletics are not yet as clean as they should be.

One of the abuses to which Mr. Camp calls attention is the gradual collecting of especially expert athletes into the larger clubs and coincident with this a natural loss of interest in the smaller organizations, which, if not corrected, must eventually lead to the extinction of the latter, as they will be unable to retain the services of any athlete after he has made a prominent succes. Mr. Camp also refers to certain abuses growing out of the relations between the governing body of amateur athletics and the college athletic organizations, such as questions of authority and questions involving the training table or the support of athletes during the summer. Mr. Camp goes to the root of this latter evil, which has its start in the undue influences brought to bear upon school athletes in the choice of a college or university.' Where it leads has been shown by the Columbia College incident. In Mr. Camp’s own words the school athlete 4‘is offered a scholarship, or charge of an eating table, or the sale of certain goods, not because he is especially adapted for any one of these things but because he is an athlete, and in order that the college or university may secure the benefits of his athletic work.” If offerings stopped with those enumerated above the practice would not be so dangerous, but there have been cases brought to light where more direct inducements have been held out to boys. To suppress this evil Mr. Camp recommends that the length of time the training tables are continued be reduced so as to do away with some of the opportunity for continuous living on athletic organizations, and finally “it must cut out, one and for all, the possibility of an amateur college athlete having his living paid for all summer by some interested party as a reward for athletic services.”

Mr. Camp also dwells upon the financial side of the question at considerable length, but this is not so serious or important a feature of college athletics as the necessity for having clean sport and fair play, “to cherish the sport for sport’s sake without necessarily diminishing in any way the desire and the pleasure of victory,” and “to base success upon inherent manhood and the indefatigable energy and persistence of work.” If this is not done it is only a question of time how soon amateur athletics will sink to the low level of the professional field. The recent developments at Harvard and Columbia show that the college faculties as well as the athletic organizations are beginning to appreciate this. The good work should not halt. It furnishes the only safeguard against current abuses.—Chicago Tribune.

Digitized by

Google
-37-

X H tutt-n	.	m	Published	Monthly.

MSP ftND BODY. ^ FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Subscription Price, $ 1.00 per Year.	MU-wau-uJcee,‘W’lecoaajalaa..

«“ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

SPECIAL COMMITTEE OF THE A. A. A. P. E.

WE here reprint an article from “The Weekly” announcing the appointment of a Committee of Seventeen to submit to the next meeting of the A. A. A. P. E. a report on “Improvements in Physical Training in the Educational Institutions” of this country. We doubt not but that the members of this Committee have been carefully selected for the purpose of forming what is called in parliamentary parlance a “Working Committee”. Nevertheless it seems to us that the omission of responsible representatives of the different systems which, after all, have been instrumental in furthering physical education to a considerable extent, was ill advised. The committee is, in the great majority, composed of college professors; but the public school instructor, the active worker, the man who is in immediate contact with school authorities and the public, is not represented. His experience and his advice in such matters are far too valuable to be dispensed with. If the problem were one concerning physical training,in colleges only, no better committee could have been appointed. As it is, however, we are forced to think that its present composition is a somewhat one-sided affair.

COMMITTEE OF SEVENTEEN OF PHYSICAL CULTURE,

At the annual convention of the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education held last April, 1899, in Cambridge, Mass., the president was authorized to appoint a committee to draft definite recommendations for securing a fuller recognition of physical training in elementary, secondary, and higher educational institutions. It is planned that the work of the committee shall be of as great importance to general education as the report of the Committee of Fifteen appointed by the National Educational Association. The committee will be known to physical culture teachers as the Committee of Seventeen.

D.	A. Sargent, president of the association, has appointed the following on the committee:

President William Dewitt Hyde, Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Me.

President G. Stanley Hall, Clark University, Worcester, Mass.

Hon. William T. Harris, Commissioner of Education, Washington, D. C. Professor E. W. Scripture, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.

Professor William James, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

Prolessor John M. Tyler, Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.

Professor H. P. Bowditch, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass.

Professor James M. Cattell, Columbia University, New York City.

Professor Joseph Jastrow, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.

Dr. Charles H. Henderson, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y.

Dr. Edward M. Hartwell, 5 Brimmer Street, Boston, Mass,

Digitized by v^ooQle
-38-

Dr. E. H. Bradford, 133 Newbury Street, Boston, Mass.

Dr. L. Emmet Holt, 14 West Fifty-fifth Street, New York City. Professor Paul H. Hanus, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. Dr. Henry Ling Taylor, 60 West Fifty-fifth Street, New York City. Dr. B. Sachs, New York City.

Professor Henry H. Donaldson, Chicago, 111.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—During the three days preceding the National Festival of the North American Gymnastic Union (Nordamerikanischer Turnerbund) which is to come forth in Philadelphia this summer (June 21, 22, and 23) there will also be held the National Convention of the Turners in the same city, and about 350 delegates from all parts of the Union are being expected to assemble.

—For the fourth time the American Marathon-Race (25 miles) was run under the auspices of the Boston Athletic Association and won by John Caffrey, of Hamilton, Ont., in 2 hours, 39 minutes and 44% seconds. Mr. Caffrey has broken the world’s record for this particular race.

—As an addition to the already published announcement of some of the summer schools which conduct a department of physical training, we can add to-day the “Chicago Institute,” “Columbia University,” New York, Anderson Normal School, New Haven, Conn., and “Chautauqua.” Prospective students are referred to the above mentioned institutions for catalogues.

—The Betz Dry Hot Air Apparatus is being regarded as the best means of “thawing” out the muscular system of athletes in spring-practice.

INDOOR SNOWBALL.

A new game which bids fair to become a strong rival to basket ball is “indoor snowball.” It is the invention of Principal L. E. Harri^, of the high school at Rochelle, 111.

It is suitable for boys or girls, and employs twenty-two players. It has the advantage of giving an abundance of exercise without the disadvantages of too much personal contact and danger. There is no danger at all in the game, and the opposing sides do their heaviest work on opposite sides of the net, so there is no chance for injury.

It was first played in Chicago at the Graham School on Wednesday, March 28, two matches being contested, one entirely by bovs and the other by girls. Twenty-eight soft balls are used^ and the game opens much like a snowball battle. On Thursday, March 29,' it was played at the Chicago Normal School under the direction of Miss Laura W. Sanborn, director of physical culture, and was received with enthusiasm by spectators as well as players, one of the advantages being that spectators may be very close to the players during the progress of the game without interference or danger.	The School Weekly,

Digitized by CjOOQle
-39-

EXTRACTS FROM EUROPEAN JOURNALS ON PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

By Dr. W. A. OCKER, Hughes High School, Cincinnati, O.

Swedish System. While great efforts are being made to introduce the Swedish system of gymnastics in the schools of Belgium and France, we hear many complaints in the “Land of Rational Gymnastics (Sweden)” against the tedious “Ling System.” A French paper, “Gym-nastique Frangaise,” claims to know many Swedish teachers who are endeavoring to replace the Ling system with the French system of Gymnastics. Their teachers, it is claimed, say that the Swedish system may be medicine but that the French system then becomes a basket of fruit; also that the children in the Swedish schools must “swallow bitter pills” whereas other systems prescribe “sugar-coated pills.” These teachers, knowing that they cannot abandon their system entirely, are now trying to reform the same by the addition of wand and club-exercises, boxing, and such other exercises as will afford a greater variety of Work.

Paderewski and Sandow. Among the sporting fraternity of London much interest is taken in the lawsuit of a pianist, named Leigh, against Eugene Sandow. The great athlete gave nightly exhibitions of his strength at a London Theatre. His closing act was to lift a pianq and the above pianist, who was dressed to represent Paderewski, and who was to play “stirring” music, high into the air. One night, after several failures on the part of Sandow to successfully perform some of his feats of strength, this pianist feared he might be dropped while playing his usual imitations and hence asked Sandow to excuse him from his part of the program. Sandow’s only answer was a threatening look and without much ado he picked up the platform holding the piano and the pianist. The frightened Mr. Leigh, instead of playing the wild music changed his tune to a soft soothing melody so as not to further irritate the angry man of strength. Suddenly a tremendous crash was heard; Sandow had lost his balance and both instrument and performer were precipitated into the orchestra. It is needless to say that something broke; the piano was severed into many pieces, and Mr. Leigh suffered three broken ribs and a dislocated hip. Leigh-Paderewski estimated his damages at 2000 dollars and, as Sandow wpuld not compromise, the law-suit followed. Sandow’s defense was that the pianist, instead of rendering Paderewski-musik as per agreement, played a soft “berceuse” which, he claims, would unnerve the strongest of men.

Ice-sport in Asia. Perhaps but few people are aware of the fact that America and Europe are not the only countries where ice-sports are cultivated and indulged in. In the middle of Asia, near the Chinese boundary, is a city named Irtutsk where artificial ice-rinks afford the inhabitants a great variety of winter sport. The rinks are open from October to the 31st of March and are provided with all conveniences, such as dressing rooms, seats, and rooms for warming while resting. Large crowds attend on Sundays, not only to skate but to enjoy the splendid concerts rendered by the Military Band.

Digitized by VjOOQle
Training. By training we endeavor to put the human system in such a condition that the great physical exertion may be endured without injury to the system. This iss accomplished by proper nourishment and judicious exercise. The following diet is recommended by most English athletes: — For breakfast, a few soft boiled eggs, or a piece of mutton, dried bread or toast, and one cup of weak tea, milk, or water. Avoid ham, bacon, pickeled meats, and fish. For dinner, roast mutton or beef, broiled mutton, broiled steak, little if any vegetables, one or two mealy potatoes, stale bread, and a glass of ale. Avoid all highly seasoned foods, salted or pickeled meats, soups, cheese, alchohol, and liquor, and all forms of tobacco. Five o’clock tea, a cup of tea, toast, and an egg may be eaten. Supper is usually limited to oatm.eal-porridge, and milk and biscuit. Sugar, butter and milk should be taken sparingly.

Besides dieting, the athlete undergoes what may be termed a “sweat cure”. It is a well-known fact that a person not in training will perspire much more freely than the athlete in training. Retire at 10 o’clock P. M. and arise at 5 or 6 o’clock A. M. Upon arising take a cold shower bath of a few seconds’ duration, then dry the skin rapidly, and rub until the skin glows. This to be followed by some brisk work with the dumbbells. Dress is 'of much importance. The clothes should fit snugly but must not interfere with the free circulation of the blood. Woolens are preferable to cotton clothing as the former absorb the sweat but do not interfere with proper circulation.

Olympic Games. The athletic games of the Paris Exposition and the Olympian Games have been put under one head and are now known as “Concours internationaux d'Exercices Physiques et de Sports (Jeux Olympiques)”.

The first group, called the “Le Championat du Monde” (world’s championship), will consist of 100, 400, 800, and 1500 M. runs: hurdle races of 110 M. and 400 M.; Steeple chase (i. e. a race with various obstacles such as ditches, embankments, fences etc.) of 2500 M.; High-jump; Broad-jump; and Throwing the Discus.

The second group consists of 200 and 600 M. runs; 4000 M. steeple chase; Tug of War for societies or clubs; Throwing the Hammer; 200 M. Hurdle and the Hop, Step and Jump.

Dates for above competitions are the 15th, 17th, 19th and 23rd of July. Entries close the 14th of June. The entrance fee varies from 2— 25 Frs. (40c—$5.00) and the prices are valued at from 10—500 Frs. (2-100 dollars).

There will be many competitors for nautical honors. The program consists of Swimming on the Chest over a course of 100 M. and 200 M.; Swimming on the Back over a distance of 200 M.; Obstacle Race; Diving and Water-Polo contests.

On the 26th of August a long distance, 4000 AT., Swimming Race will be held in the River Seine in which amateurs and professionals may take part.

The greatest number of entries are to be found in the Cycle-Races. The chief race will be the 2000 M. ride for 30,000 Frs. This will be followed by the International Handicap Race of 5000 M., a Tandem Raee

Digitized by ^ooQle
41-

over a 2000 M. coarse and the Short Distance Races. All of the races are scheduled to occur between the 9th and 15th of September.

HEALTH AND HYGIENE.

A somewhat celebrated Boston philosopher says he has lived according to the following rules: he always sits in a draft when he can find one, wears the thinnest underclothes he can find* winter and summer, and prefers to work in a cold room, 55 to 00° F. He works the largest part of the twenty-four hours, day or night indifferently, eats when hungry, rarely tastes wine but drinks two or three quarts of beer daily and smokes a pipe all the time when he is at work. He evidently considers himself a pattern of health, and apparently publishes his rules of living in a sort of spirit of bravado, and to make himself a monument of the futility of ordinary hygienic rules of life. There is a streak of vanity in the announcement, but great men are often vain and may even be foolish in regard to their personal qualities. One with an originally strong constitution, favored with a special freedom from accidental disease, gifted with a happy, equable disposition, and living under favorable conditions, can sometimes sin for a time against many of the minor and some of the major hygienic moralities with comparative impunity. Thus we occasionally hear of favored beings who have gone to bed drunk every night up to 90 or 100 years. These are, however, somewhat apocryphal; they are seldom people of much intelligence and possibly also not always reliable as to their ages or history. In the case above we have a noted man in the prime of life, 58 years old, who has done much intellectual work of a high order in his past, and should have a considerable future still before him. He is said to be in his dimensions, 72 inches by 46, and to weigh 240 pounds or more, from which it would appear possible that the degenerative processes had already made a headway in his organism. One does not care to venture prophecy in any such individual case, but it is variously suggestive, and it will be of interest to watch its future. In the meantime we, ordinary people, will do best for ourselves by obeying and living according to the well-established rules of temperance and hygiene.	J.	A.	M.	A.

COLD LUNCHES.

Wesley F. Diter of Dayton, O., died of mechanical intestinal obstruction as set forth in the certificate signed by the attending physician. The doctor also takes occasion to comment on the fact that Diter had eaten cold lunches for the past twelve years, as he had been obliged to be away from home at the noon hour. The physiciail says that he is a good example of this practice and should serve as a lesson to others similarly situated.

No doubt, we all agree that the daily partaking of cold lunches is detrimental to health. Our high schools as well as most colleges and universities are the cradles wherein this evil habit is begun and nourished. The “noon-hour” is Usually so short that students cannot reach their homes for a warm dinner and return in time for the opening of

Digitized by CjOOQle
-42-

the afternoon session. In most of the high schools the pupils are not permitted to leave the premises during the noon recess, which is usually of short duration (15—30 minutes). The students must eat, and if they do not bring a lunch from home, usually buy from street venders who so “temptingly” offer pickles, pretzels, sandwiches and cake. At many of the high schools provision has been made for a large lunch room which is in charge of a caterer and who is compelled by contract to serve hot soups, hot milks and other wholesome food at reasonable prices to all who may wish to buy. Boys and girls who persist in hurriedly swallowing their food at school and especially if it be a cold lunch are laying the foundation stonCs for the great building of indigestion and dyspepsia.	W.	A.	0.

UNIVERSITY STRONG MEN TO COMPETE.

Following the contest for intercollegiate gymnastic honors conies the competition for the intercollegiate strength championship. No open trials are held for this, but the records of the fifty strongest men in each university are compiled', properly certified to, and submitted to a committee chosen by the Association of Collegiate Physical Directors.

This committee will probably consist of Dr. D. A. Sargent, of Harvard; Dr. J. W. Seaver, of Yale, and Dr. W. L. Savage, of Columbia.

The records of the strong men of the various universities must be submitted before May 1. Besides tabulating the records of the first fiftw strong men in £ach university the records of the 50 strong men who have reached the highest number of points for all the colleges are to be compiled, and honors will be awarded to the university having the greatest number of men in this fifty.

The intercollegiate strength test embraces seven distinct tests of strength, as follows: —

First, strength of back; second, strength of legs; third, strength of right forearm; fourth, strength of left forearm; fifth, strength of lungs, or one-twentieth capacity of lungs; sixth, strength of upper arms (triceps) and chest; seventh, strength of upper arms (biceps) and back.

Harvard was the winner last year, with Columbia second, and Amherst third, in the contest for the fifty strongest men in each university, and Harvard again was first, with Amherst second and Columbia third, in the competition for the greatest number of representatives in the fifty strongest men of all the colleges.

This year the condition may be changed. Columbia is beginning ' final preparation for the strength tests. Although eighteen of her last year’s fifty7' strong men have left the university there are now in the local institution ’forty-six who have registered above nine hundred points, and fifteen who have passed the thousand mark.

Nearly all of these men have vastly improved in strength since their first experiences with the testing machines, and on this basis Columbia appears as a possible winner of the championseip. A proof of the benefit and skill derived from the gymnastic work at Columbia is the showing of the Columbia gymnastic team in the intercollegiate championship contest.

Digitized by tjOOQle
JENNESS MILLER’S LECTURE IN CINCINNATI.

For an hour and a half Thursday afternoon Mrs. Annie Tenness Miller held the closest attention of her large audience of women, who had assembled at the Odeon to listen to her talk on “Knowledge, Which Is Power.” Mrs. Miller (Cincinnati, 0.) is eminently practical. She places good, sound health above everything else and claims that if one has a healthy body she must necessarly have a sound, well balanced mind. She took ossasion in her lecture to give some of her opinions of club women. Mrs. Miller thinks these women devote too much time to the study of art and kindred subjects and not enough to every day living.

She would like to see the splendidly organized clubs take up the study of woman and make a practical demonstration of sanitary science, heredity, physiology, hygiene, and cooking. She would have children on entering their school life subjected to a physical examination. The health of children should receive the most careful attention and consideration in the early grades. “Every woman,” said Mrs. Miller, “who enters upon a domestic career should study the laws of heredity, of physiology, sanitation in her home, physical development, and the chemistry of cookery. These things lie at the roof of individual health and character and become the foundation stones of national progress and social integrity.” She said she hoped that Cincinnati women had discarded corsets and that if women dressed properly and stood and walked correctly this garment was not necessary in giving a trim and neat appearance to the figure. She denounced the wearing of trailing gowns on the street. The woman who wears a trailing dress on the street and allows it to trail is lacking in the elements of cleanliness. Dresses should be adapted to the various occasions on which they are worn.

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may he'ordered from the Freidenker Puhl, Co., Milwaukee.)

—No. 6 of the Bulletins of thel National Festival of the N. A. G. U. in Philadelphia has made its appearance. It is full of interesting reading matter and well illustrated. The Bulletin (Fest-Zeitung) is printed in German.

—Manual of Physical Culture for Public Schools. Arranged by Anton Leibold, Supervisor of Physical Training, Public Schools, Columbus, 0. Revised Edition.—Mr. Leibold’s manual has assumed the size of a booklet of 122 pages. The fact that this is the third edition speaks well for the author. The manual is carefully graded and represents an adaptation of the German s\rstem for public school work.

—Kipling’s New Animal Stories. Rudvard Kipling is going to tell of “The Beginning pf the Armadillos” in the May “Ladies’ Home Journal.” Of course, Mr. Kipling brings to bear an irresistibly funny, but withal a highly ingenuous, philosophy in describing the peculiarities of the armadillo. He evidently found enjoyment in writing these stories—he calls them “Just So” stories—for *he has interwoven more inimitable humor into his account of the way by which the armadillos came into being, and the others of the series, than in anything else that has come from his versatile pen.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-44-

INDIAN CLUB EXERCISES.

By KARL F. ROSS, Los Angeles, Cal.

(Continued.)

Explanation.—An A. and H. C. right and a H. and A. C. left (simultaneously) is called “Mill." If the clubs are swung outward and the H. C. performed behind shoulders it is called “Mill outward behind shoulders " The mill is thus named according to the direction the clubs are swung and where the H. C. is executed. If the large A. C. is wanted it will be specially remarked. In following exercises all mill movements begin with H. C. left and A. C. right, unless specially remarked.

Ghxovip IX.

Exercise I. Mill outward behind shoulders 1—4. Mill outward with large A. C. and H. C. above in front 5—8. Repeat the whole 9—16. Exercise II. Mill outward with two H. C. behind shoulders and one H. C. below in rear 1—4. Mill outward with large A. C. and two H. C’s. above in front and one H. C. below in front 5—8. Repeat the whole 9—1$.

Exercise III. Same as exercise I, but inward 1—16.

Exercise IV. Same as exercise II, but inward 1—16.

O-ro-a-p 221.

Exercise I. H. C. left outward behind shoulders and small A. C. right outward (simultaneously) 1. Twist trunk left lA turn with H. C. left forward and right backward outside of arms (simultaneously) 2. Repeat vice versa 3—4. Repeat the whole three times 5—16. Exercise II. Mill outward behind shoulders 1—2. Mill outward below in rear 3—4. Exercise I 5—8. Repeat 9—16.

Exercise III. H. C. left inward behind shoulders and small A. C. right inward (simultaneously) 1. Twist trunk *4 turn right with H. C. left forward and right backward outside of arms 2. Repeat vice versa 3—4. Repeat the whole three times 5—16.

Exercise IV. Mill inward behind shoulders 1—2. Mill inward below in rear 3—4. Exercise III 5—8. Repeat 9—16.

Oro-cup 23ZI.

Exercise I. Mill to the left behind shoulders 1—2. Straighten arms upward with D. H. C. to the left in rear of left and in front of right arm 3. D. H. C. to the left in rear of right and in front of left aim 4. Repeat the whole 5—8. Same to the right 9—16.

Exercise II. Mill to the left behind shoulders 1—2. Mill to the left below in rear 3—4. Large D. A. C. to the left .5. (Arms upward.) Three D. H. C’s. to the left in rear, front and rear of left and in front rear and front of right arm 6, 7, 8. Same to the right 9—16. Exercise III. *4 turn left with lunge left forward and mill forward outside of arms (begin with H. C. right and A. C. left) 1—4. At the fourth count execute a Y2 turn right on heels, change bending knees and draw the left arm over your head to the right. Mill forward outside of arms (begin with H. C. left and A. G. right) 5—8.

Digitized by C^ooQle
—45—

At the 8th count execute Y2 turn left on heels, change bending knees and draw right arm over your head to the left. Repeat the whole 9—16 (at the last count return to starting position).

Exercise IV. 14 turn left and lunge left forward with D. A. C. forward 1. D. cross A. C. forward 2 (arms cross each other). D. H. C. forward ^outside of arms (hands cross each other) 4. Y2 turn right on right heel with lockstep left and D. A. C. left 5. Swing clubs backward behind shoulders (forearms horizontal above shoulders, clubs vertical behind shoulders) 6. Bend trunk forward to right angle with D. A. C. forward (arms and clubs are now pointing backward and are level with trunk) 7. Straighten trunk and swing clubs back to starting position with D. H. C. backward outside of arms 8. Lunge right forward with same club exercise as before 9—12. V2 turn left on left heel with lockstep right and D. A. C. right 13. Swing clubs behind back etc. as before 14—16.

0-ro-a.p XU.

Exercise I. % A. C. right inward and V2 H. C. left outward behind shoulders with drawing left arm over head to the right (both arms are then sideways right, left arm over head) 1. Same vice versa 2. Repeat 3—4. 14 turn right on heel of right and ball of left foot with % D. A. C. left 5. Mill forward outside of shoulders 6—8. Repeat the whole vice versa 9—16.

Exercise II. Y2 turn A. C. left outward and Y2 H. C. right inward with drawing right arm to the right (both arms are then sideways right, left arm over head) 1. Same vice versa 2. Repeat 3—4. Y± turn right on heel of left and ball of right foot with % D. A. C. left 5. Mill backward outside of shoulders 6—8. Repeat the whole vice /ersa 9—16.

Exercise III. A. C. right inward and Y2 H. C. left outward with drawing arm over head to the right 1. D. A. C. inward 2. First movement vice versa 3. D. A. C. inward 4 (at the end of the 4th count execute 14 turn right). Reverse D. A. C. left forward, right backward 5. Reverse D. H. C. outside of arms left forward, right backward 6. Repeat movements 5 and 6, 7—8. Repeat the whole vice versa 9—16.

Exercise IV. A. C. left outward and Y2 H. C. right inward with drawing arm over head sideways right 1. D. A. C. outward 2. First movement vice versa 3. D. A. C. outward 4 (at the end of the 4th count execute 14 turn right). H. C. right forward outside of shoulder with A. C. left backward 5. A. C. right forward with H. C. left backward outside of shoulder 6. Reverse D. A. C. right forward left, backward 7. Reverse D. H. C. 8. Repeat the whole vice versa 9—16.

(To be continued.)

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for one year on receipt of $4.00 for 4 new subscribers.
-46-

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—An International Football Team Coming. Mr. B. P. Sullivan, of the DeWolf Hopper Co., well known in theatrical circles has just returned from abroad on the Germanic. With him he brought credentials from Bryan M. McGuire, Honorary Secretary of the All-Ireland Rugby Football Team. Mr. Sullivan has been instructed by the Irish players to arrange matches in America for them. As this team is the strongest college team that can be brought from Emerald Isle, it is their attention to play all the leading colleges of America. Prior to coming over, they will be coached in the American play by a well known college expert, who is to be sent over. They will arrive in this country some time in August and take up their quarters at the Knickerbocker Field in the City of Bayonne under the coaching of several college football men. They believe that with the knowledge of the English game and practice, at our game thev will be able to hold down Harvard, Yale, University of Penn., Princeton, Columbia, and all the leading colleges. Their representative will visit New Haven and Cambridge to make arrangements with the two New England Colleges. It is also the intention to play the Columbia in New York, Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, and the University of Chicago at Chicago.

—“Spalding’s Official Bicycle Guide” is the current number of Spalding’s Athletic Library, and is edited by a well known newspaperman, Mr. John Frank Byrne, of New York. The Guide is divided into three parts: touring, road-\ racing and records, and each subject is treated in a masterly manner. The records, especially, are compiled in a way which renders them exceedingly clear and far superior to anything of the kind ever published heretofore. The article descriptive of Murphy’s mile in 57 4-5 seconds is a graphic description of the event, and the photographs of the leading lights in the cycling world form an interesting collection.

—The Yale Athletic Association has voted not to 'send a team to Paris this summer. Several of her athletes, however, will compete for athletic clubs.

—Brown and California Universities' have been readmitted to the Intercollegiate Association of Amateur Athletes of America. Trinity* College has resigned from this Association.

—Syracuse University will send a track team to Paris.

^The pupils of the School of Deaf Mutes at Berkeley, California, have a splendid base-ball team. Coaching is not restricted to the side lines.

—Cornell expects to have a banner season in athletics this year. f —Jerome Bradley, Princeton ’97, will coach the Georgetown University base-ball team this season. An effort was made to obtain the services of Phil. King, who has been so successful at Wisconsin University.

—The Carlisle Indians and Columbia University will play foot-ball in New York next Thanksgiving.

—J. C. McCracken, the Intercollegiate champion hammer thrower and shot putter will compete in these events at Paris also in the 56 lb weight and discus hurling.

—The University of California will send a team east this season to compete in the eastern games.

—“Father Bill” Curtis of the New York Athletic Club was presented with a handsome loving cup bv the Executive Committee of the Intercollegiate A. A. A. A.

—“Spalding’s Official Base Ball Guide” for 1900 is the March issue of Spalding’s Athletic Library and is certainly a wonderful production. The size of the Guide has increased in proportion with the demand, and this year’s issue surpasses all previous ones. The Guide of ten years ago contained little else but the rules, while this year’s it is replete with information for the lover.of base ball, whether a player or a “fan.” Of course, the new rules are .the most important part of the book, but in addition there are articles reviewing the season of 1899,

Digitized by CjOOQle
-47-

instructive talks on various positions, official averages of the national and minor leagues, college records and reviews, and a half tpne supplement containing pictures of the leading teams and players. Very interesting features are the rules for computing the percentages and a simple way fcr laying out a correct ball ground, while baseball in England has several pages devoted to it, showing that the game promises to become more than national in character. The notes interspersed throughout are very pertinent, and the Guide as a whole, undoubtedly excels its previous high standard of excellence, which has already earned for it the title of “the model base ball manual” of the country. The compiling and editing of this vast amount of matter has been done personally by the veteran writer, Henry Chadwick, the “Father of Base Ball,” whose solicitude for the game, although in his seventy-sixth year, is just as absorbing as it was in the days when base ball was in its infancy.

—Cambridge beat Oxford in their annual boat race this year, but Oxford evened things up somewhat by winning the athletic contest in their dual meet.

—Lacrosse is being boomed at Harvard. It is a royal game and it would be a good thing if all the colleges took it up.

—The Princeton track team will sail for Paris on June 13. When the Tiger athletes arrive in France the men will immediately take up training at Vincennes, where they will remain until the games begin, it is likely that Trainer Walter Christie will have charge of the physical welfare of the men during their stay abroad. Robert Garrett, captain of the ’97 team, is the only alumnus who will compete on the aggregation.

—Columbia University Gymnasium. The general exercising room is apsidal in shape, and measures on its axis 164 feet by 134 feet in the clear. The ceiling is 35 feet high, and the room is well lighted and well ventilated, both naturally and artificallv. The arrangement of the apparatus is such, that athletic, gymnastic, and calisthenic work can go on at the same time. The running track is 11 feet wide, with ends well raised for fast running, and measures 10 laps to the mile. On a floor 22 feet above the exercising floor are rooms for fencing, boxing, and hand-ball, 1,500 lockers made of steel and open wire, and 32 shower-baths. Below the exercising floor is a swimming pool, also apsidal in shape, measuring 100 feet by 50 feet on its axes. Around the pool are four large dressing-and-rubbing-rooms, 42 individual dressing-rooms of thick opaque glass, and 20 shower-, needle-, and tub-baths. The pool contains about 200,000 gallons of water, which is filtered and, in winter, warmed. The depth is from 4 to 10 feet.

—The Intercollegiate Rowing Association, composed of Cornell, University of Pennsylvania, Columbia, and University of Wisconsin, has signed a five years’ agreement with the Poughkeepsie Highland Rowing Association by which the latter organization will have full charge of the June regattas on the Hudson River.

ENGLISH GYMNASTIC BOOKS

FOR SALE BY

Freidenker Publishing Co., Milwaukee, Wis.

A SYSTEM OF PHYSICAL CULTURE, DESIGNED AS A MANUAL OF INSTRUCTION FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS. By Carl Betz.

*	—First Book: Free Gymnastics. Price, 75 Cents:—Second Book:

Gymnastic Tactics (Stepping, Walking, Running, etc.). Price, 75 Cents.—Third Book : Light Gymnastics (Poles, Dumb-bells, Rings, Wands, and Clubs). Price, 75 Gents.—Fourth Book:	Popular

Gymnastics, Athletics and Sports of the Playground. Price, 75 Cts.

1 —First Book abridged:	Free Gymnastics arranged especially for

District Schools. Price, 50 Cents.

Digitized by Ljooole
-48-

BEALE’S CALISTHENICS AND LIGHT GYMNASTICS FOR YOUNG FOLKS. 120 Illustrations from Life by Photographic Process. Containing Broom and Fan Drills, Marches, Fencing, Club, Wand, and

Dumb-bell Exercises. Swimming and Music for Marching. This is the most complete work published on the subject. 160 pages. Boards, 75 Cents. Cloth, Price, $1.00.	'

GYMNASTICS IN THE SCHOOL-ROOM. By Hans Ballin. A Manual for the Use of Teachers Containing One Hundred and Fifty-eight Half-tone Illustrations Direct from Photographs. Price, $1.00.

DICK’S ART OF WRESTLING. A Hand-Book of thorough instruction in wrestling, with the accepted rules to be observed in the different methods of wrestling generally adopted at the present timq. Fully illustrated by well-designed engravings, exhibiting all the aggressive and defensive positions necessary for success. Paper covers. Price, 25 Cents.

NED DONNELLEY’S ART OF BOXING. A Thorough Manual of Sparring and Self-defense, Illustrated with Forty Engravings, Showing the Various Blows, Stops, and Guards; by Ned Donnelly, Professor of Boxing to the London Athletic Club, etc., etc. This work explains every movement of attack and defense in the clearest language; the engravings show each position as plainly as the instruction of a professor could convey it. Including the latest revision of the Marquis of Queensbury’s and London Prize Ring Rules. 127 pages. Price, 25 Cents.

THE ART OF ATTACK AND DEFENSE. A Manual of Fencing, Sword and Bayonet Exercises, and Boxing. By Major W. J. Elliott. This work affords thorough instructions in the modern method of Fencing, Sword against Sword or Bayonet, Bayonet against Sword or Bayonet, and the latest developments in the Pugilistic Art. Paper cover. Price, 25 Cents.

THE SWEDISH SYSTEM. By Baron Nils Posse. The Swedish System of Educational Gymnastics. 264 Illustrations. Latest Edition. Price, $3.00.—-Handbook of School Gymnastics of the Swedish System. Cloth, Price, 55 Cents.

CODE-BOOK OF GYMNASTIC EXERCISES. By L. Puritz. Translated by O. Knofe and J. W. Macqueen, members of the German Gymnastic Society of London. With 268 Woodcut Illustrations. Price, 60 Cents.

GYMNASTIC TACTICS. Parti: Tactics of the Individual. By E. H. Arnold, M. D., Director of Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics. Price, 20 Cents.

ELEMENTARY APPARATUS WORK OF THE GERMAN SYSTEM OF GYMNASTICS. By E. H. Arnold, M. D. Arranged by Frances N. Boynton. Price, 25 Cents.

SCHOOL TACTICS. For the Use of Schools and Gymnastic Associations. By W. A. Stecher. With 50 Illustrations. Price, $1.00.

HAND-BOOK OF GYMNASTICS. By J. M. Watson. Illustrated. Price, $2.00.

Digitized by t^ooQle