MIND AND BODY

Tol. 17.	SEPTEMBER,	1910.	No.	191

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Assn., Boston, Mass.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown-, Phil., Pa.

Bditorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

THE FOLK STREAK/

If it be true that the body is a temple wherein we mysteriously harbour the mind and receive the spirit, it is very sure that each of these entities should draw to itself only that which vitalizes it.

No one part is independent of the other, for they are bound together in dissoluble union, so that, perhaps, the requirement of each part should minister to the whole. The spirit gains sustenance from its original source, # but it also draws power from the progress of the mind and the capabilities of the body. The mind, absorbing to its destiny the deeps of knowledge, is yet illumined by the soul, and taught its limitations by the physical frame. The physical, straining towards the emancipations of perfect self-control, strength and grace, calls upon its marvelous locomotive possibilities to preserve that which was made in the divine image. Yet so frail is the body that to the mind alone it owes its direction and to the soul its purpose.

Thus, in the education of mind and body, we cannot exclude the element of the soul. Realising this, it is necessary to challenge the meaning of that which dawns on the educational horizon.

Of late a strange and luminous streak has flashed through the atmosphere of systems and revisions, and holds the public, lay and scholastic, as with a spell. It may best be described as the “Folk Streak.” Folk lore assails the fancy, erstwhile songs are in each mouth, old-time dances fire the blood with crude compulsion. The fascinations of the long-ago world with its rustic arts, its sweet etiquette and its fiercer pleaesures, wake the ancestral echoes of the heart. Is it well?

The question is startling in its practical harshness. Slowly the mind is recalled from translucent dreams of “Merrie England” in its pastoral simplicities to the present and what these thoughts conserve to it. Rich in scenes of quaintness, vigour and measured lilt, such fancies court the superficial mind; but from within the pale of an ultra-civilization the seer quails before the evidences of superstition, which is often the real spell *

* This article was published in the last number of “Physical Education,” London. It shows that the incredible reaction against the dance-craze has also begun in England. Ed.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-162-

which awakes in the human heart the cult of bygone days. Is it wise to steal our standard from days darkened by primitive passions, or to cultivate in children the thoughts which emanated from the picturesque ignorance of the feudal masses?

Far be it from an exponent of Physical Education to decry anything which makes for physical perfection, but it is incumbent on such a one to ascertain if Folk-songs, Morris Dancing, etc., tend to this end from his scientific standpoint. It cannot be urged in defense of folk-songs that the subjects thereof are always pleasing, or that the music could not be revived in company with more enlightened ideals. Against this it will be argued that the music and words must harmonize in quaintness, and that to dissociate them would destroy this effect; besides—and it would be a long ^beside*—it appeals to the latent instincts which education has previously annulled. Again intrudes the question whether a return to former centuries and a study of their pursuits are timely stepping-stones in the evolution of education. If so it seems that to retrograde is to advance. By all means let that which is fundamental be preserved, but is not the training of youth in merriment replete with superstition a strange attribute in modern days ?

That a prejudicial bias may not be suspected it is well to take a rapid review of Morris Dancing in its physical and psychical aspect. The principle of Physical Training is, briefly, the attainment of the greatest amount of benefit with the least amount of fatigue. It must be submitted that the opposite is the case with Morris-dancing. Fatigue rapidly follows in the wake of such exaggerated vigour of frame and it is doubtful whether the accelerated effort is compensated by as good physical result as ordinary training. It must be borne in mind that this question is under consideration from an educational standpoint and with regard to the effect on children mainly.

- Morris Dancing, as we know, was originally performed by men and was a task suitable to the full strength of manhood, but it is doubtful whether it is not far too much to expect of the strength of a child. In 'upper-class schools, the highly cultured and often neurotic child of the present day is fascinated by the dancing, but has seldom sufficient stamina for such primitive exertion. The indiscriminate introduction of Morris Dancing into Elementary Schools is greatly to be deplored, for rapid movement and exhaustion of strength are by no means to be desired as an educational factor. It should be remembered that a large part of our city populations are badly nourished, nervous, and have a tendency to hereditary disease. Quick movements are bad for nervous or underfed children, yet who is to understand the need for individual exemption? Medical inspection avails little in the matter of exercise unless the doctor be acquainted with all comprised in the comprehensive term “Physical Exercises,” which is marvellously seldom.

If one watches a child during the dances one discovers several things; firstly, that the constant changes and manoeuvres of the figures, combined with the jangling of bells and stamping of feet are unconsciously straining his nerves; hence the frown which indicates no displeasure. Then one is struck by the constant monotony of movement, surely an offense to Physical principles. This monotony is common to all. the limlbs, but is mostly to be Noticed in those gyrations of the arm by which the handkerchiefs are kept in

Digitized by ^ooQle
-163-

motion. Of course this would not equally apply to the ‘Stick’ or ‘Bagpipe’ daiices. Consequent on this constant repetition fatigue sets in and the head droops forward causing bad carriage. The movement of the legs is so rapid and so many steps are required to a measure that all personal peculiarities of posture are accentuated, instead of corrected. If corrected during tuition, the habits obtain during practice.

The aesethetic aspect is as important, as the physical, and here testimony depends on the impression of the onlooker. Such an onlooker, however, seeing a first-rate exposition of Morris Dancing for the first time, was conscious of psychical discomfort. Crowding upon the mind came the consciousness of buffoonery, such as described by Scott in his historic “Abbot.” The bounding figures became suggestive of the days when religious fanantics roused the passions of a mob. In chaotic succession loomed the horrors of the Revolution, and the unspeakable things of the Auto de fe. Yet more remote, the mind decried the Druids among their barbaric followers, urging to some such expression as this the votaries of their religion. It recalled to the memory those reasons for which Morris Dancing was originally abandoned, and the darker meanings with which unbridled thought endowed these representations. In a word, the uncontrol of a concourse of our contemporaries, in cultured surroundings and with a comprehension of science, is a fearsome thing.

If this be the view of an aesthete and extremist, it is but a view, nevertheless sincere, sudden and unexpected. As a possible intuition in the physical and psychical cause it seeks expression.

Now and here, when the infinite sadness of civilization has taught men a stern dignity of purpose and laid upon them the necessity of preparation for emergency, it is well to Consider if we can with expediency return to the personal abandon of more rude and unlettered spirits.—Workaday.

GOOD HEALTH AND BUSINESS.

William E. Day.

One of the leading men of the day gave it as his opinion recently, that good health was the best thing for a youqg man to start out in life with. To have a good super-structure one must have a solid foundation, and good health is the basis upon which every man must build when he begins his life structure. The man who achieves distinction, professionally or in business, without good health is rare, in fact so much so as to achieve comment. Every young man should look to his health first rather than to his mental development. Wide-awake business men are now demanding •ertificates of good health from applicants for positions, realizing that only the best service can be obtained from those in good health, and the expense of “breaking” a man into a position becomes almost a total loss if the employe becomes ill. iSlowly but steadily men are beginning to realize that good health and a -fine physique are a valuable asset, are striving to keep themselves in the best possible physical condition by regular attendance at one of the gymnasium classes, and the cultivation of personal hygiene habits that tend for health. Beside the feeling of exhilaration that comes from properly directed exercise, the attendance at the gymnasium classes has a commercial value .to the employer and the employe. A man in good health

£ ;

Digitized by

Google
-164-

will not only be able to do his work in a manner more satisfactory to himself, but also give better service to employer than a man in poor health. Time spent in the gymnasium pays—bodily exercise profiteth.

NOTES FROM THE MEETING OF THE N. E. A., BOSTON, MA

July 4th to 7th.

Superintendent William H. IV^axwell of New York City, in his paper on the “Economic Use of Education Plants,” touched upon many phases of our work. The following is an abstract of his paper:—

“That a public school building may be used economically it ought to be used all of the time—summer and winter, morning, afternoon and evening—and it ought to be used for the greatest benefit to the greatest number of people.

“That school buildings in cities may be used economically they should be provided not only with outdoor playgrounds, but with large indoor playgrounds, with assembly-rooms, with rooms equipped for teaching carpentry and cooking, with classrooms furnished with moveable furniture and capable of being converted into open-air rooms.

“The activities which may be conducted outside of the regular school hours are evening schools, continuation schools from 7 to 9 A. M., and from 4 P. M. to 6 P. M. for children who have left school to go to work before completing the elementary school course; recreation centres and gymnastic classes in the evening for young working-people; lectures, concerts and debating societies.

“During the long summer vacation, school premises should be used for continuation schools for pupils who have failed of promotion in June, for manual training work for children who are compelled to reside in the city during the heated term, and for playgrounds. All high schools should be maintained throughout the year, summer as well as winter. Workshops and cooking rooms should be kept in operation every afternoon and on Saturday morning for the sake of those children who cannot get sufficient eye and hand training during the regular school hours, and for children preparing for the trades. In cities in which foreign immigrants settle in large numbers, summer evening schools should be established to teach English to foreigners.

“There are two conditions which are essential to the success of any activities undertaken in school premises outside of school hours:

“1. The activities should be under the direction of the school authorities and should be supported at public expense. No other agency has the means to conduct them on a sufficiently large scale. No other agency has the staying power to conduct necessary experiments over a series of years in order to determine a policy. No other agency has the power to secure the essential co-operation of the day school staff with those responsible for the outside work. No other agency is so likely to keep the playgrounds clear of their most insidious foe—political influence in the appointment of the directors.

“2. It is not buildings or equipment that makes a playground successful, but the persons in charge. If the director and his assistants do not sympathize with children, if they are not resourceful and inventive, if they cannot play all children’s games, and if they have not the executive ability

Digitized by CaOOQle
-165-

to vary the activities, so that physical exertion, repose, and recreative work have their proper time and rotation, the playground, no matter what its appointments or resources, will be a comparative failure. City children must be taught how to play.

“As a corollary to the second condition it follows that all normal schools and training schools for teachers should instruct our future teachers in the teaching of gymnastics, athletics and games.”

In Tuesday’s general meeting Dr. D. A. Sargent read a paper which we will print in our next issue.

A resolution was offered by Dr. Helen C. Putnam, chairman of the Educational Section of the American Association for Study and Prevention of Infant Mortality, of Providence, R. I., regarding the janitors of schools and their relation to health. The resolution was adopted as follows:

Inasmuch as sanitation of school premises is a large factor in health and education of children, be it

Resolved: That the National Education Association recommends that the training in the principles and methods of sanitary care of school premises be required of all janitors and superintendents of janitors; that provision be made for giving such instruction; and that where their appointments are through civil service examination it shall include examination in this subject. Be it also

Resolved: That a committee of five to contain at least two specialists in sanitation be appointed by the incoming president of the National Education Association to present at the next annual meeting of the association outlines of courses for janitors and superintendents of janitors in principles and methods of sanitary care of school premises and plans for instituting such instruction.

A committee was appointed to lay this resolution before the committee on resolutions of the N. E. A.

In the Wednesday meeting of the Physical Training section, two subjects were discussed.

Dr. Richard C. Cabot of Boston read a paper on “The Deeper Significance of the School Hygiene Movement.” President G. Stanley Hall of Clark University, presented a paper on “Psychological Aspects of Physical Education.” Both of the papers abounded in striking paragraphs, and in the discussion one of the speakers stated that “the worst thing that ever happened for education was the building of school-houses.” •

Dr. Cabot, after stating that schools are now paying much attention to the noses and teeth of pupils, took up the matter of ventilation, saying, in part:

“The air o£ many of our schoolrooms is often much more vitiated than that of crowded tenements. Tenement houses congestion is not yet compulsory, but schoolhouse congestion is. Those other compulsory institutions, the jails, are probably even worse, but we do not all have to go to jail. The remedy, however, is at hand, in the form of that terrible scourge—tuberculosis. We have learned that puny and tuberculous school children are benefited in outdoor schoolrooms. Soon we shall learn that children who are not sick may be kept from sickness by giving them

Digitized by CaOOQle
—166—

pure air, instead of the dead, overheated air poured out of expensive so-called ventilating plants.

“You teachers know what health means as a means to an end. We physicians are inclined to look upon health as something beneficial for its own sake. The cost of hygiene in the schools will be brought up to you, but you can answer it by asking who has a right to commit children to an institution where they shall become diseased.

“Three things are bad for school hygiene: Heroism, creative effort and child-bearing. I urge upon you that you shall exercise your prerogative as guardian of the child’s whole welfare. Hygiene is never an end. It is a means. Give the engineers, the doctors, the physiologists, a fair trial, but don’t be hypnotized by them. They are all special pleaders, as I am. If you let the school hygiene problem go its own way, regardless of the subtle and more complicated problems of education, you must remember, there is much to be said on the other side. Hygiene is a splendid servant but a wretched master. I have seen many a man who was physically and hygienically perfect, but who was a perfect monster of immorality. To be acutely conscious of one’s physical health is bad. One should not be thinking of his body, or of his soul. He should be thinking of his job and of his God. If gymnastics make us think of our body they are bad. If philosophy makes us think of our soul, it is bad. If athletics and philosophy lead us to live a better and a more abundant life, they are good for us. School hygiene is founded upon a recognition of the fact that compulsory education means compulsory disease, unless we so shape it that it means compulsory health. It is for you to try our these innovations and determine whether they mean life more abundant.”

President G. Stanley Hall of Clark University in Worcester, spoke on the psychological aspect of physical education. He said:

“There is a wide complaint that in industry brain work and unskilled muscle work are unduly separated. The same division of labor is found in athletics between the manager or trainer who dictates regimen, etc., and the athlete who has only to follow orders. Thus we lose the best thing the Greeks who had no coaches gained, viz., freedom, self-knowledge, self-control. Their body training was only the preparation for philosophy. The best thing athletics can give	is	an	inner	oracle, bodily conscience,

that teaches him what to do, how	to	do	it, his	own limitations, how to

get most and best out of his body, when to stop to avoid fatigue and how to habitually live on a higher plane of health and effectiveness. Most of us habitually live at from 70 to 90 per cent of our maximal vigor and do not gain by the better body keeping that physical training ought to teach the fifteen years we should add on the average to our lives. Everyone’s health problem is at root	his	own.	He must make original

investigations and forge up to the	higher	levels	and not fall from grace

between training. The true athlete should be an aristocrat of health and strength and learn how to keep himself up to his tip-top condition the rest of his life. This is the best college athletics can give

“Second, our faculties have been stupid and wasteful in dealing with athletics, trying to regulate it from without. They have made no serious attempt to use this tremendous interest for the highest culture. This they could do by courses on the best things that the history of physical training has to give. They should also teach the vast body of new knowledge
-167-

concerning all matters of hygiene and training. The material is vast and a single spark of pedagogic genius here is greatly needed to kindle it and to bring it into vital touch with the great surging calentures of the diamond, the gridiron and the field. This data is still scattered, but brought together would be a veritable bible of the body for athletes, would instill honor, temperance, the simple life, the spirit of loyalty to even larger wholes than the alma mater and would make training a fine art based on science. The trainer kills honor by teaching to win at any price. The great motivation here for chastity is not utilized. The ideal academic athlete should be as superior to the average in soul as in body, else he is lop-sided and monstrous. He should be a gentleman with a higher code of honor and should feel it incumbent upon him to fit himself to be the progenitor of a higher type of man. Athletics without eugenics is incom-pete. These men ought to be nature's own nobemen, true aristocrats in a republic transmitting the raw ore of physical training into the gold of character, submitting it in higher fields. It is now up to educators to work out such a curriculum.,,

Dr. Rebecca Stoneroad, director of physical training in the public schools of Washington, D. C., opened Thursday morning’s programme in the department of physical education, in Huntington Hall. The general topic for consideration was “Physical Education for Girls.” In the course of her address Miss Stoneroad said:

<fMuch has been said and written concerning the physical education of boys during the periods of childhood and early adolescence. What should be done for girls has not received deserved consideration, probably owing to the fact that investigators of the subject have been teachers of v boys rather than girls, so that fewer observations have been made and statistics collected concerning this sex. The whole subject is a complex one demanding experience with and a thorough understanding and appre-« ciation of the growing girl.

“There is no doubt that girls, as compared with boys, are in even greater . need of all the benefits which are to be derived from a wisely planned, thoroughly executed and complete course in physical education..

It has been stated by an orthopedic surgeon in a hospital for children, that of those who apply in consequence of physical developmental defects, hardly more than five per cent are boys. In other words about ninety-five per cent are girls.”

“Let us impress upon our minds three general requirements which are essential if we would have an adequate and scientific system of physical education. These may be briefly stated as follows:

“i. There should be an adaptation to the stage of physiological development.

“2. There should be an adaptation of the individual, taking into consideration his physical and mental condition as well as his personal needs.

“3. There should be an adaptation to the sex.

“We should strive to know the mind and soul of the girl, which requires rare discernment, great sympathy and appreciation. Her whole physical education may be summed up in what a girl at each stage of her development should be and what she ought to know how to do.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
—168-

“The first demand is for health and vigor, for which reason, whenever possible, work should be taken out of doors with daily regularity and those exercises chosen which increase vitality and have to do with functional health as well as health of mind. These would include all the great motor activities of walking, running, throwing, skipping, jumping and, whenever practicable, climbing and swimming. We shall indeed have done a great work if we have instilled in the minds and muscles of the young a love for the pleasures of physical activity and have created a habit of exercise.

“Above all, there should be cultivated the hygienic habits of simple, deep breathing at all times, an erect carriage of the head and the thorax held at its greatest height permitting free play and proper functioning of internal organs.

“The second great need is educational in character and consists in the formation of right habits of action by proper training of nerve centres.

“The third need is for recreative exercises to offset the mental strain of school work, as this is the rock upon which many a young life has been shattered through injudicious teachers and ambitious parents; the healthy and normal course of development being hindered by long hours of sitting and poring over books.

“The fourth need is for corrective gymnastics for the purpose of overcoming certain postural defects which can frequently be traced to the school. The ideal exercise should give rise to pleasurable feelings which, through nerve stimulation, have a reflex effect upon the body. Besides the psychic effect, there is the favorable one upon the entire organism, influencing the whole group of organic functions, increasing the circulation and causing exhilaration.

“A few general propositions seem to me wise if we are to safeguard our girls from the physical evils resulting from overwork in the matter of athletics:

'	“i. All girls entering into competition should be examined by a

physician and a certificate given stating the condition of heart, lungs, nerves and general health at that time, to the end that only those physically able can participate.

“2. Close supervision on the part of a woman instructor who knows the physical condition of the girl and will prevent her from participating in competition at times of temporary disability.

“3. Actual observations of the reaction of the individual occurring after a normal period of rest following unusual exertion, and a record of the same.

“4. Another physical examination by the physician made after a number of months of strenuous work to note what body changes may have resulted from the athletics indulged in.

“5. Personal instruction concerning the danger of excessive fatigue.

“It is true that any athletic sports carried to excess may result in exhaustion. But in strong competition the desire to win keeps the girl keyed up to the highest possible nervous tension, making her willing to go to the point of extreme fatigue all unknown to the instructor. Specially strong is the temptation if admiring friends are present to view her failure or success.”

Among the methods by which the probability of exhaustion may be lessened, the speaker mentioned: A longer period of rest between rounds;

Digitized by CjOOQle
-169-

a shortening of the length of time for exertion; increasing the age and weight limit of the contestants; various methods of relays; making the events group events, instead of individual events; lessening the degree of effort necessary to score; private competition, not public. By the above methods it is possible to have all the fun, the pleasure in activity, .the joy in effort and success itself, before the arrival of a condition of exhaustion.

Some interesting facts about the effect of physical training on girls were presented by Miss Laura S. Plummer, head of the department of physical education in the Boston Normal School. She said that for the purpose of making a just estimate of the effects of physical training upon girls of high school age, those most intimately connected with the question have been asked to contribute their experience. Statistics have been gathered from these sources; physical training teachers; high school students; mothers; physicians; and students three years in advance of the age under discussion, who have been asked to take a backward view.

The results of the tabulation of these statistics reveal an encouraging condition. An improvement in carriage, better breathing, and a greater love of outdoor activities, are reported. There is a happy absence of many ills, such as headaches and backaches, generally attributed to high school girls.

The majority of the replies show that the girls and their mothers definitely recognize the presence or absence of effects produced by gymnasium work. It is apparent, however, that the results of physical training should be even more evident to them in order that a conscious effort may be made to attain the desired effects.

There are at least four ways of making the physical training of the lower high school age more effective:

1.	Requiring a lesson in physical training at least four times each week. (Two lessons a week is the usual rule.)

2.	Securing, occassionally, the presence of mothers and family physicians in the gymnasium, and following these visits with conferences on the subject.

3.	Reinforcing the gymnasium work with the formation of correct habits of eating, sleeping and outdoor activity.

4.	Requiring for promotion a better physical condition, as shown by better carriage, better breathing, clearer skin and greater self-control.

The physical training of post-adolescent girls was discussed in a paper by Elizabeth A. Wright, director of the gymnasium at Radcliffe College. She said in part:

“The problems connected with the physical training of post-adolescent girls would be simplified if mothers and educators were more generally acquainted with the laws of growth and alive to the formation of correct physical habits during childhood. The physical condition of the average high school and college girl is only fair. The role of physical training is to provide stimulus and opportunity for increasing vitality, and for repairing the defects of faulty growth and incorrect motor habits, before it is too late.

“It is important that girls should be made to realize that the adjustment of the environment which results in health is of far-reaching biological significance—that physical training is a means toward the end of race

Digitized by C^ooQle
-170-

development. Hence and especially of the practical application of its teachings, as a basis for physical training. All factors that make for efficient living must be considered in this connection, but emphasis is usually put upon the training of motor mechanisms. This is justified in view of the widespread effects, both physiological and psychological, that exercise has upon the whole system.

“The status of growth and development of the post-adolescent girl is suggestive in indicating what should be the nature of this motor training* A review of conditions at this period shows that there is less danger of strain than during puberty, but that too strenuous or prolonged work shout'd be avoided. Play and formal gymnastics are both of importance. The former is of especial significance in providing training for heart and lungs, and as a means of character-building; the latter for corrective and educational purposes.

“The attitude of educational institutions is a potent factor in determining the interest and seriousness with which girls regard this part of their training. If it is to be effective students must be held as accountable for health, carriage, etc., as for academic branches.”

FIELD DAY OF THE ST. LOUIS PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

Saturday, May 21st, 1910.

Calisthenic Exercises for Pupils of Grades III and IV.

Music:—'March, 4-4 Time.

An introduction of 8 beats will precede the exercises and an interlude of 16 beats will be played between the parts, during which the pupils re-

main in the fundamental position.

PART ONE.

FIRST EXERCISE.

(a)	March forward three steps and	close heels at four...... 1-4

(b)	Mark time and face left................................... 5”8

(c)	Two follow steps left sideward.......................... 9-12

(d)	Mark time and face left................................  13-16

Repeat (a)-(d) .............................................  I7"32

SECOND EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise arms forward and tpestep	left	forward............  1-4

(b)	Raise arms upward......................................    5-8

(c)	and (d) Return movements................................. 9-16

Repeat (a)-(d) with toestep right............................ 17-32

THIRD EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise arms sideward and toestep	left	sideward............. 1-4

(b)	Raise arms upward, clapping hands......................... 5-S

(c)	and (d) Return movements................................ 9-16

Repeat (a)-(d) with toestep	right............................ 17-32

FOURTH EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise arms backward and toestep	left	backward............. 1-4

(b)	Raise arms upward......................................... 5-&

(c)	and (d) Return movements................................. 9-16

Repeat (a)-(d) with toestep right............................ 17-32

4x32=128 Beats.

Digitized by <*jOOQle
PART TWO.

FIRST EXERCISE.

(a)	March forward three steps and close at	four.............. 1-4

(b)	Mark time and face right..............................        5~8

(c)	Two follow steps right sideward............................. 9-12

(d)	Mark time and face right.................................   IS’1^

Repeat (a)-(d). Place hands on hips at 28......................  I7'32

SECOND EXERCISE.

(a)	Straighten arms forward and stride left	forward. ........... 1-4

(b)	Bend trunk forward, hands near foot.......................... 5-8

(c)	and (d) Return movements.....................................9-16

Repeat (a)-(d) ..............................................    17-32

THIRD EXERCISE.

(a)	Straighten arms sideward and stride left	sideward............ 1-4

(b)	Bend trunk sideward left................................. 5-8

(c)	and (d) Return movements...................................  9-16

Repeat (a)-(d) bending trunk right .........................     17-32

FOURTH EXERCISE.

(a)	Straighten arms backward and stride left	backward.___.....	1-4

(b)	Bend trunk backward and raise arms side upward with clap-

ping hands.............................................   5-8

(c)	and (d) Return movements.................................... 9-16

Repeat (a)-(d) ..............................................    17-32

4x32=128 Beats.

PART THREE.

PLACE BACK OF HANDS ON HIPS.

FIRST EXERCISE.

(a)» Step and hop forward left and right, bending other leg back-

ward ..................................................    1-4

(b)	Mark time and face left..................  —............,...;	5-8

(c)	Step and hop sideward left and right, bending other	leg in	front	9-12

(d) ' Mark time and face left—.......,...—1...,... .. .....13-16

Repeat (a)-(d). Lower arms at 28... ................................   17-33

SECOND EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise arms fore-upward and stride left forward..... .1..,..	.1.	1-4

(b)	Place hands on shoulders and lower head forward. •.....,.....,	5-8

(c)	'	Straighten arms upward and raise head...................... 9-13

(d)	Lower arms forward down and return foot......................... 13-16

Repeat (a)-(d), stride right forward................................   17-32

THIRD EXERCISE.

(a)	Raise arms side upward with clapping hands and stride left

sideward .....................................................  1-4

(b)	Place hands on hips and lower head sideward left................. 5-8

(c)	Straighten arms upward and raise head..........................  9-12

(d)	Lower arms sideward and return foot...........................  13-16

Repeat (a)-(d) lowering head right and stride right sideward--- 17-32

FOURTH EXERCISE. *

(a)	Raise arms back upward and stride left backwrd............. 1-4

(b)	Fold arms in rear and lower head backward.......................  5-8

(c)	Straighten arms upward and raise head...................... 9-12

(d)	<	Lower arms and return foot..................................    13-16

Repeat (a)-(d) stride right backward.................................. 17-32

4x32=128 Beats.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
-172-

INDIAN CLUB DRILL

Bj Karl F. Ross, M. D., Physical Director Turnverein Germania,

Los Angeles, Cal.

Exhibited at the Bundes Turnfest, held at Cincinnati, Ohio, June 1909.

1.	Number of participants 16.

2.	Music: “Schottische.”

3.	All Tactical evolutions performed while running.

4.	Clubs are carried upon forearms during all running (arms bent at right

angles, forearm horizontal, upper arm vertical) unless otherwise commanded during drill.

TACTICS—GROUP A.

Figure I. The line angle march left 3 times, run—48 counts.

Figure 2. Ranks A, B, C, D, form to the left, run—4 counts.

Figure 3. Rank A, 4-4 wheel left.

Rank B, 4-4 counts forward and 3-4 wheel left.

Rank B, 4 counts forward and 3-4 wheel left.

Rank C, 8 counts forward and 1-2 wheel left.

Rank D, 12 counts forward and 1-4 wheel left, run—16 counts.

Figure 4. The column angle march left, run.

Rank A 1-4 wheel and 12 steps forward, B 1-2 wheel and 8 steps forward, C 3-4 wheel and 4 steps forward, and Rank D 4-4 wheel—16 counts. (Repeat figures 3 and 4 3 times—96 counts.)

Figure 5. Ranks 1-4 wheel left, run—4 counts.

Figure 6. The line 1-4 wheel left and face left about, run—16 counts. (Repeat figure 6, 3 times.)

Note:—Chain arms in front during wheels; lower same for facing.

Figure 7, Rank A 12 steps forward and 1-4 wheel left, B 8 steps forward 1-4 wheel left and 4 stepts forward, C 4 steps for-" ,ward j-4. wheel left and 8 steps forward, D 1-4 wheel _________________left .and 12 steps forward, run—16 counts.

Figure 8. Ranks 1-2 wheel left, run—8 counts. (Repeat figures 7 _ . and 8, 3 times—72 counts.)

Figure The dine 8 counts forward and members of rank A and B face left about, RUN—12 counts.

Figure 10. The ranks 4 wheel left about centre (x) and face left about, run—32 counts.

Figure 11. Repeat to the right facing right about, run—12 counts.. (Arms chained in front in figures 10 and 11.)

Figure 12. Ranks D and A 1-4 wheel left and 4 counts forward, run—

8 counts.

Figure 13. All ranks 4-4 wheel left, run—16 counts.

Figure 14. All ranks 3-4 wheel right, run—12 counts.

Figure 15. All ranks 8 counts forward, run.

Figure 16. All ranks 1-2 wheel right and 4 counts forward, run—12 counts.

Figure 17. All ranks 4-4 wheel right, run—16 counts. (Repeat figures 14, is, 16—32 counts.)

Figure 18. All to the centre of wheel or pivot face in position for club (swings.

Digitized by LjOOQle
o re

^ J i ^ vet |.



• o' i.$ urfe l-

H

*

v> f*

* $■



c

D

-»-» > 4

i’\J »ft

.*	.?	t>

/'-J,g

Tn"1fTTr5VTtftf*t>

•^v

%*

*>%c

v40

"*

0

^fC'N

Crr-rrS#**^

H’

8 C. 0

1	«t

•»	mt

**	-»

$1$ vre ?

1‘x^vee 'X A

«W&?pwi

•%. f h

$*/$* Mil

Q o; "a

►

r

*

f

A

TTf?

S’ I 3 Y tfc (a

A. * e 0

■S y<

cfc >0- -V j: 0

«r v»s

5* i ^ ^ ^4 ^ o c 6 A

..^1	’H-X		P
*:f		j	1
c\[	J		
0:t ,			

3* I*

A

iilU&frrftrrr

A u f *J£. a vd«U

V------v

S'ijvrt

A

3»$ V.tt |C

9 vy^v

Xi^i #v\

*t	r	►	•

'>:;*	ot;.>

wi A A «

^.tvyw

Digitized by

Google
-174-CLUB SWINGS---GROUP A.

Exercise i.

(a)	Swing 3-4 double arm circle forward and lower trunk for-

ward 1.

(b)	Swing 3-4 double arm circle backward and raise trunk 2.

(c)	Drop clubs back of shoulders (vertically) and lower trunk

backward 3.

(d)	Double hand circle inward (back of shoulders) swinging

clubs up to position, raise trunk 4.

(e)	' Hand circle inward with left arm back of shoulder and arm

circle right with right arm 5.

(f)	Hand circle inward with right arm back of shoulder and

arm circle left with left arm 6.

Repeat (e) 8. Repeat (f) 9. The whole 32 counts.

Exercise 2.

(a)

Exercise 3.

(a)

f ...

x*

(b)

Exercise 4.

(a)

(b)

Swing left forward, left arm obliquely fore upward, right arm obliquely down backward, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. On heels face right about straightening left and bending right knee and double arm circle inward so that right arm is obliquely fore upward and left arm is obliquely down backward 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16. Face left about on heels, kneeling right, double arm circle inward so that left arm is bent horizontally over head, right arm obliquely down and back; hold 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24. In position stand 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32.

Follow arm circles forward on left side, I, 2.

Follow arm circles forward on right side, 3, 4.

Follow arm circles forward on left side, 5, 6.

Follow hand circles forward on left side of arms (outside) hands, shoulder high, order of swing right, left, 7, 8.

Same, beginning to the other side 9—16. (Repeat whale, a and b, 16-32.)

Double arm circle left 1. Lunge left forward swinging 3-4 double arm circle (down and back) right 2.

Replace left foot swinging 1-2 double arm circle backward (arms will now be forward) 3.

Bend knees and swing 1-2 double hand circle backward (clubs rest on forearms) 4.

Straighten knees and double hand circle forward on outside of arms 5.

Double hand circle forward (inside of arms) 6. Double snake circle forward (inside of arms) 6. Double hand circle forward (outiside of arms) 8.

Repeat (a) to other side, 9-16. Repeat parts (a) (b) 16-32.

TACTICS--GROUP B.

Figure 19. Numbers 1 and 2 of ranks A, B, C, D, face right and once around circle, run. Numbers 3 and 4 face left and once around circle, run. Note:—Raise arms obliquely side

Digitized by v^.ooQle
upward, partners crossing clubs of inside arms, 32 counts.

Figure 20. 2fs and 4*s of ranks A, B, C, D, stand in place with clubs crossed upward and above head while numbers 1 and 3 of Said ranks circle forward 2 and 4 respectively (1 circles 2), (3 circles 4) with inner arms raised obliquely side upward, outer arms obliquely side downward, 8 counts. (Repeat circling in opposite direction Q-16) 16 counts.

Figure 21. All face outward from centre of cross, each rank 1-2 angle march (450) once and angle march left 3 times—16 counts.

Figure 22. Each rank 1-2 angle march left and angle march right and 1-2 angle march right, run—12 counts.

Figure 23., Run to positions for group B (club swings) run.

Exercise 1.

(a)

(b)

(c)

d)

e

<f)

CLUB SWINGS OF GROUP B.

Hand circle left outward with left arm behind shoulder, arm circle right with right arm 1.

Same to opposite side 2.

Hand circle (arm upward) left with left arm, amt circle right with right arm 3.

Same to opposite side 4.

Repeat (a) 5.

Turn trunk left and double hand circle forward with left arm and backward with right arm (on outer side of arm) 6. Repeat (a) to opposite side 7. Repeat (f) to opposite side 8. The outer 2 members of each of the five triangles with inside arms obliquely outward and up, outside arms outward and down, lunge

Digitized by
-176-

obliquely outward and back (inside leg) to middle member while middle member with arms obliquely outward and up lunges left forward and the anterior members of centre quadrent with arms outward and up kneels 9-12. All douible arm circle inward, outer members changing knee bend to forward and outside leg, outer arm bend horizontally across head, arid inside arm extended obliquely down and back. Middle members coming to position arms obliquely side downward, anterior members of middle quadrent kneel right and arms obliquely side downward 13; hold to 16. Repeat whole—32 counts.

Exercise 2.

(a)	Hand circle left with left arm (inward) back of shoulder

_ and arm cirde left with right arm 1.

(b)	Same to opposite side 2.

(c)	Hand circle left with left arm (inward) back of hip and

arm circle left with right arm (inward) 3.

(d)	Same to opposite side 4.

(e)	Repeat (a) 5.

(f)	Turn trunk right and double hand circle left forward, right

backward (outside of arms) arms raised forward 6.

(g)	Repeat (a) to opposite side.

(h)	Repeat (f) to opposite side 8.

Outer members of each of five triangles kneel on outer leg, inside arm bent horizontally above head, inside arm bent horizontally across front of body while middle members cross clubs upward above head and anterior members of middle quadrent kneel on left leg, clubs crossed upward above head 9; hold 10, 11, 12. Outer member kneeling on outside leg straighten inside leg obliquely side backward toward centre member bending body in opposite direction (obliquely sideward), inside arm obliquely side upward touching ends of clubs with • outside member of triangle outside arm- obliquely side downward while centre member of triangle lunges left forward. Double arm circle inward and arms obliquely side upward kneels left 13; hold to 16. Repeat whole—64 counts.	(To be concluded.)

EGGS AS FOOD.

German doctors have been investigating the length of time that eggs are retained in the stomach. If it be granted that the length of time that food is retained in the stomach is a measure of its digestibility, lightly-cooked eggs are the most digestible; next come raw eggs, then buttered eggs, and finally hard-boiled eggs and eggs in an omelette. The nitrogen of hard-boiled eggs is absorbed to about the same extent as that of meat, but the fat is much better absorbed than that of meat. Another investigator showed that lightlyJboiled eggs and raw eggs have a higher food value as part of a mixed diet than a corresponding amount of meat. (From Health, London.)	J./;

Digitized by LaOOQle
-177-

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Philadelphia.

DIET.

Some interesting observations on vegetarianism have been made by Dr. Karl Noorden, professor of internal medicine in the University of Vienna, ' and one of the greatest authorities on dietary in Europe. Against what he calls only “fleshless” vegetarianism, Professor Noorden raises no objection, but the strict vegetarianism, which excludes eggs, butter, milk, cheese, and the like he considers to be fraught with danger.

The “fleshless” vegetarian diet provides a sufficient supply of albuminous substance—that is, assuming that the average daily fare includes from two to three pints of milk, five to six eggs, and two ounces of cheese. And apart from its cheapness, this form of nourishment may be recommended, especially where there is any tendency to goutiness. In a few cases the sudden abstention from the generous meat diet which has perhaps been followed for years may produce bodily weakness, and in this event one must carefully consider whether the giving up of meat eating really promises so many advantages as to outweigh the drawbacks. But of the stricter vegetarianism which excludes all products from living animals Professor Noorden speaks much less favourably. Vegetables in the dry substance contain not more than io per cent, of “resorbent albumen.” Therefore, to reach the very moderate amount of 70 grammes of albumen daily some six 01 seven pounds of vegetables would have to be eaten.

This lays an immense burden upon the stomach and intestines, whicto perfectly healthy persons may be able to stand, but quite frequently rJve organs give way, and sickness .follows. In other cases the volume of putri-ment taken is insufficient, and the whole system suffers accordingly.— (Physical Education, London.)

—A physician advances the theory that the distressing sensation of nausea has its seat in the brain, and not, as is usually supposed, in the stomach; that relief may be obtained by cooling the base of the brain. He claims to have tested this often and thoroughly in cases of sick headache, bilious cholic, cholera morbus and other ills in which the nauseau is a distressing symptom, without a single failure. He states that he once relieved the nausea resulting from cancer of the stomach by the application of ice to the back of the neck and base of the skull. The ice so used should be broken fine and the bits placed between the folds of a towel. Relief may be obtained by holding the head over a sink or tub and pouring a small stream of water on the neck.—(Health, London.)

—Here is a simple and available recipe—a medicinal bath for the nervously worn and those who cannot sleep o* nights. It was the prescription of an old physician. Take of sea salt four ounces, spirits of ammonia two ounces, spirits of camphor two ounces, of pure alcohol eight ounces, and sufficient hot water to make a full quart of the liquid. Dissolve the sea salt in hot water and let it stand until cool. . Pour into the alcohol the spirits of ammonia and camphor; add the salt water, shake well apd

Digitized by LjOOQle
-178-

bat tie for use. With a soft sponge dipped in this mixture wet over the surface of the whole body; rub vigorously until the skin glows. When nervous or “blue” or wakeful, do not omit this bath. The rest and refreshing that follows will amply repay the effort required to prepare it.

Boracic ointment.—An invaluable cure for sore eyes is a little boracic powder dissolved in warm- water. When cold, bathe the eyes two or three times a day. Boracic ointment is a sure cure for gathered fingers, etc.— (Health, London.)	____________

DENTAL CLINIC FOR SCHOOL CHILDREN.

This clinic is the outgrowth of experiments tried by Dr. Joseph S. Neff, director of the Department of Public Health and Charities, in Philadelphia. Recognizing the importance of dental conditions in affecting the general health, Dr. Neff has, during the last two years, been sending parties of children of the public schools to various dental clinics, where they have been treated practically free of cost, the city meeting the expense of materials in some cases.

Last year the children were taken to three clinics. Eight hundred and ten children had their teeth put in good condition by this means, but the number does not seem so large when we learn that no less than 6873 children were referred, as needing treatment, by the medical inspectors of the schools. In the cases of all but seven hundred for whom the city would care, it was possible merely to send the parents word that treatment was necessary; and in the large majority of cases, the families paid no attention to such notifications.

This year, only two clinics have been available for the children, and it became evident that some other means of providing for large numbers must be found.	.	1

After many urgent requests from Dr. Neff and other interested persons, Councils have finally appropriated sufficient money for the equipment of a dispensary, in which it will be possible to care for about 6000 children a year. The dispensary will be located in the City Hall, on the seventh floor. A committee of dentists has been formed in the interests of this work, and sixty of these have volunteered their services. As a consequence, it will be possible to keep the three operating chairs which will be in the clinic filled from 9 A. M. until about 3 P. M. Every care will be taken to guard against children whose parents can afford to pay even a little for dental treatment being admitted to the clinic.—(Fresh Air Magazine.)

THE MIND AND THE BODY.

More than twenty centuries ago Plato wrote: “The office of the physician extends equally to the purification of mind and body; to neglect the one is to expose the other to evident peril. It is not only the body that by its sound constitution strengthens the soul, but the well regulated soul by its authoritative power maintains the body in perfect health.”

And still the Christian Scientists, the New- thoughters and the innumerable brood of quacks and fakirs who make the mind their special province, think, and they try to make the people think, that they have dis-. covered something new, when they tell you that the mind has a great in-, fluence on the body. Of course it has; but not any greater—if as great— than the body has on the mind.—(The Med. Pharm. Critic and Guide.)

Digitized by LjOOQle
-179-

PLEASANTNESS A TONIC.

Don’t be afraid of being pleasant. It cannot hurt you, and will be as good as a tonic for all you meet.

What though you do think yourself superior to most of your acquaintances, is it good taste to placard your belief by a freezing countenance?

Theje is nothing like affability to conceal one’s family skeletons. A haughty manner is a direct bid for the rest of the world to rake up ancestral secrets tliat you thought buried.

Not everyone has the happy faculty of drawing the best out of others, but no one need ever be guilty of the vulgarity of consciously seeking to put them at a disadvantage.

Snubs have a way of coming home to roost.—(From Health, London.)

NERVOUS DISORDERS.

At the present day, when everyone seems to be suffering from nerves, it is more than necessary to try to cultivate reposeful habits. When you sit down to rest be still, and don’t start at every noise. A long-continued noise might have a wearying effect on the nerves; but the little noices, which are over in a moment, hurt no one, and it is quite absurd to jump and start, as some people do, at them. Control of nervous movements act beneficially on the nerves themselves; whereas if the nerves are allowed to run riot, bodily health is impossible. Uncontrolled nerves are responsible for terrible disasters caused by panics in fires and other accidents, which often result in the loss of hundreds of lives. Giving way to nerves without a struggle for mastery over them is, therefore, not only very bad for oneself, but exceedingly selfish to one’s neighbors. Everyone should strive to attain a quiet, even manner under all circumstances, and then when an emergency comes the chances are that they will be able to act with cool courage, even in the face of real danger, and be helpful to others, perhaps, instead of being a source of peril, as is so often the case.—(From Health, London.)

NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

The junior class gave a reception and dance for the seniors Saturday, June ii, 1910.

The senior banquet was held in the palm garden Wednesday evening; June 15. The regular class day program was carried out. Mr. Alvin G. Herrmann acted as toast-master. Mr. Steropfel responded with the <4Col-lege;” Dr* Fischer spoke of “Truth and Duty” and Mr. Rath talked on the “Efficient Teacher.”

The closing demonstration of the year was given Thursday, June 16. It consisted of gymnastic dancing, free exercises, esthetic dancing, fencing, apparatus work and games. These were conducted by the seniors, showing the student’s ability in directing gymnastic work.

The alumni meeting was held Thursday afternoon, June 16. It was decided to attempt to arouse the graduates* interest in the college and in the alumni meetings.

The commencement exercises were held Thursday evening, June 16. Dr. H. H. Fick of Cincinnati gave an address in German. Mr. J. R. H. Moore gave an address on “The Value of History to a Teacher of Gymnastics”

Digitized by v^,ooQle
—180—

fl/y»D ftND BODY,

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.

lifllwan Tree. ‘Wlaconito. ■

SOT Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St, Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—AMATEUR STANDING. The last biennial convention of the North American Turnerbund took a bold stand on the much discussed question of amateur standing. A long and interesting debate ensued when a motion was brought before the convention to allow the playground instructors in the Chicago playgrounds to participate in district and national festivals. The argument was that they really were no teachers; that they only showed the boys and girls how to do “stunts”; that “real” teachers did not recognize them as colleagues, etc., etc. Well, the tangle was about as great as that which now confronts the Amateur Athletic Union, and the other organizations dealing with amateur athletics. Some speakers said that as soon as one was a teacher in any phase of physical .training work he was a professional athlete e. g., if one taught fencing he could not compete v as an amateur oarsman, or as a runner. Others said that such a ruling was absurd. In fact, that it should be the endeavor of all gymnastic societies to get men employed in playgrounds, public schools and kindred places to join their ranks and exercise on the floor with clerks, teachers of other branches, artisans, etc. that if a society were prepared to go to a Turnfest it would be only just to take all these men along in their class of active Turners. They took the stand that a professional in any branch should be excluded from competition in that particular branch. That it would not be fair for one who devotes all his time to perfecting himself in any one branch, for instance fencing, to compete with men who had other things to do beside devoting their whole time to preparing themselves for one particular event. And again, they said that it is absurd to say that because a person is a teacher of gymnastics he should not be allowed to compete in a festival where all-around development was required. Attention was called to the well-known fact that, as a rule, as soon as any one left the normal school and began to teach, his gymnastic ability decreased. The debate was the most enlightening heard for many years and cleared away many cobwebs that obscured clear thinking. The result was the adoption of a motion whereby only professional athletics, i. e. persons who earn their, living by exhibiting themselves in bodily feats are excluded from active participation at Turnfests. Vivas sequens!

WELL, WELL! Did you read Mr. Connelley’s article on the Athletic Trust in the July Metropolitan? We wonder if such conditions could long continue if the athletic bodies of our country were managed by teachers, and if prizes of monetary value were abolished?

Digitized by CjOOQle
-181-

—-THE SURVEY gives the following report on the conference on Child Welfare in Worcester, Mass., the end of June:—

Discussion at the second annual meeting of the Child Conference for Research and Welfare at Clark University showed that those on the program were by no means agreed upon a specific plan for child betterment. Thus, Owen R. Lovejoy and A. J. McKelway presented the work of the National Child Labor Committee and urged the establishment of a federal children’s bureau, while Frederick P. Fish, president of the Massachusetts Board of Education, expressed his belief that some states have gone to an extreme in restricting child labor. He urged that children be permitted to work four and a half hours out of school, the employers using two relays of children in order to get a nine-hour day of work. This plan, introduced a number of years ago in England, is discredited there by both educators and manufacturers. At another session, social workers were obliged once more to meet the familiar arguments against organized charity.

One session was given up to the Worcester Child Welfare Conference and Surveys organized by President G. Stanley Hall of Clark. Fifteen university fellows and scholars have been engaged in the field work in cooperation with six conference committees on milk and infant mortality, playgrounds and play, dependence and neglect, delinquency, school hygiene and public recreation. Campaigns begun the past spring as a result of these surveys have given Worcester systems of playgrounds with paid supervisors and of pure milk stations with visiting nurses. Other valuable improvements have been quietly brought about and the movement has won enthusiastic support.

One of the most suggestive papers was on Play for Girls by Beulah Kennard, president of the Pittsburgh Playground Association. The nervous instability of women and their lack of poise, together with various qualities characteristic of adolescence, suggest arrested development and are probably due to the fact that from nine to ten years on most girls are greatly curtailed in all active forms of play. They are expected to be women several years before boys are expected to be men. Thus, she held, many so-called sex differences are due solely or largely to differences in training. The remedy is to give them as much freedom in play as boys have and to remove artificial restrictions.

David Blaustein of Chicago made a plea that in Americanizing immigrant children we preserve the best of their racial traditions, and characteristics through folk songs, games, dances, stories and industrial work. John Collier, secretary of the Board of Censors on Moving Pictures, New York, spoke on this subject. Dr. Helen Putnam, speaking on infant mortality, made a special plea for the accurate registration of all facts concerning it. Dr. Prince A. Morrow’s subjects were venereal disease and eugenics. Patty Hill of Teachers’ College, New York, brought out several ways in which the kindergartner will always be in closer touch with pupils’ families than other teachers.

Members of the conference will receive the proceedings, of which the above is the barest sort of an outline of a few parts, and others may secure them by becoming members at $2 a year. The acting treasurer is Dr. L. N. Wilson, Clark University, Worcester.

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
-182-

—IN HER ARTICLE on Tangier, in Harper’s for May, Mary Heaton Vorse tells how the street boys of the Eastern city gave die first sense of familiarity to the visitor from America.

“It was a boy—a common, or garden, boy; though a plum-colored djellab flapped around his bare legs in picturesque lines until he looked like a figure in a fantastic pantomime, he was not to be disguised, he was the “Eternal Boy.” A Jew in black gabardine, black skull-cap chased him, saying things. The boy, as he ran, turned and made faces; also he 9tuck out a derisive tongue, he also shouted replies. One understood these replies too well to wish to understand more. There was nothing abstruse or Oriental about that boy; he was an intelligent street gamin of the purest type. He dodged the enemy neatly, and a friend joined him in a flank attack, and then another aad another.

“There was no doubt about it. It was *de gang.’ It made no difference that they were dressed as for carnival, that they were of all shades and types, from straight-featured Arab lads to a black devil who looked as though he had come yesterday from Virginia—it was *de gang’ just the same, raising the same kind of lark that you may see them raising on Christopher Street any day when there’s no plain-clothes man in sight. The Jew disposed of, they spotted us, and sat down on seats in the cafe and pulled out cigarettes from the big leather pouch that every male Moor wears by way of pocket. With grins they pestered the stranger for pennies, wheedled cigarettes from him, and pointed out gayly to the beggars of Tangier that a new bunch of Easy Marks had struck town. It was a brave and soul-comforting spectacle. It was a fact to cling to, in this strange and unfamiliar country, that left to himself the human boy is pretty much the same all the world over.”

—FANTASTIC THEORIES regarding the use of colored underclothing to repel the heat in the tropics have been dispelled by a report made by the army board for the study of tropical diseases in the Philipines.

About 18 months ago 5000 suits of orange-red underclothes and a cor* responding number of orange-red hat bands were sent to the Philippines. These were distributed so that one-half of a company should be clad in the new garments and the other in the ordinary white underclothes.

The army surgeons kept the closest watch upon the men, but they failed to find that the colored underclothes brought any relief from the tropical heat, although British army officers in India had reported that such clothing was much more comfortable in hot weather than white.

The medical board found that the colored underclothing, which, by the way, was unpopular, added materially to the burden of heat upon the system, which is a great cause of tropical deterioration. It is admitted that the orange red is a protective against the chemical rays of the sun, but the same result is secured by the khaki and the tan-colored campaign hat of the American soldier.

The experiments were conducted with the greatest care, frequent records being made of blood pressure, of loss of weight and of general condition. The results were the same in the case of either the white skin of the American or the brown 9kin of the Filipino.

Digitized by Tooele
-183-

PLAY AND PLAYGROUNDS.

THE MANGLED CHILD.

“And Cain said, Am I my brother’s keeper ?”

It Wasn’t the fault of the motorman,

He went where the track is laid;

It wasn’t the fault of the drayman,

For traffic the streets were made;

It wasn’t the fault of the chauffer,

He stopped in the length of his car,—

These have rights that must be respected,

The same as our vown rights are.

For every nine squares of city,

One square should be open for play;

No privilege this, but a birthright,

Not a century hence, but to-day.

The fault is with us, my brothers,

And as sure as we now draw breath,

The God of the child that is dying,

Will hold you and me for his death.

—John L. Shroy.

PLAYGROUND EQUIPMENT.

By Theodore A. Gross, Superintendent Municipal Playgrounds, Chicago.

(Read at the Playground Congress, June, 1910, Rochester, N. Y.)

The suggestions contained in this paper are particularly applicable to playgrounds of small area and in cases where limited funds prevent the installation of elaborate facilities and expensive apparatus, equipment and accessories.

For convenience, I have classified the equipment as facilities, accessories, apparatus, supplies.

By facilities is meant shelter buildings, play spaces, wading pools, sand houses, athletic fields, ball fields and such things that are for the convenience of the patrons.

By accessories is meant fences, surfacing, drainage, panting and such things that are essential to the fullest and best use and appearance of the playground.

By supplies is meant all base balls, bats and bases, basket balls, foot balls, stop watches and all kinds of hand apparatus essentialin playing games, etc., including also tools and implements necessary in the care of and upkeep of the grounds.

I am not laying any stress upon the equipment involved in the supervision and administration of a playground, although it should be bom in mind that the first and most important equipment is that of a competent supervisor or director.

These suggestions are applicable to all playgrounds of two acres or

Digitized by v^ooQle
-184-

less, whether neighborhood playground, school playground, or a playground conducted by private organizations.

In laying out a playground it is important to reserve certain sections or play spaces for certain groups, such as boys over io years, girls over io years, older boys and young men. Children of both sexes under io years may be permitted to use the same section, but in order to effect a more satisfactory discipline and to guard against bullying and quarreling, the other groups should be confined to their own particular play space and cadi space equipped with apparatus and facilities best adapted to the needs,* desires and play tendencies of the group that is to use it.

FACILITIES.

Every playground should have an administration building, a sheltered platform and sarid box, an athletic field, a ball field, running track, wading pool and an open play space in which is erected all play apparatus.

If the playground be square shaped, the building, including the sand house and sheltered platform, should be erected in the center of the entire area with planting beds extending from the building to the fence lines at each end, dividing the area into two main play spaces. In the space in the front half of the grounds should be placed all the play apparatus; one half of this space should be reserved for boys and the other for girls.

In the space in the rear half of the grounds should be placed the athletic field equipped with the usual athletic and gymnastic apparatus, such as jump stands, hurdles, shot-put rings, jumping pits, horizontal and parallel bars, bucks, vaulting horses, flying rings, climbing poles, etc. This space can also be used as a small baseball field and if a running track be constructed around the edges of this field—slightly elevated—it forms a basin which can easily be flooded and used as a skating pond in winter. This portion of the playground should be reserved for the older boys and young men exclusively.

The wading .pool and apparatus for the small children of both sexes under io years, should be erected near the building or field house.

The building or field house need not be large (25x40) or expensive, but should at least provide two toilet rooms (8x10), one shower room (8x10) with two or three showers, office (8x10) for supervisor and attendants, a storeroom (8x16) and by all means (on the second floor if possible in order to save ground space) there should be a large playroom (24x38) which can be used for kindergarten work, light gymnasium work, calisthenics, dancing, industrial work and other activities that require indoor facilities and where certain kinds of playground work can be carried on during inclement weather.

On one side of this field house, preferably the boys* side, there should b^ erected a sheltered sand box (10x16) with broad sides for making pies, etc., and on the girls’ side a sheltered—concrete or wood—platform (16x24 outside) with fixed seats or benches around the other edges, where girls particularly can sit in the shade and do raffia work, sew or play games, such as jacks, sky-blue, hop scotch, skip the rope and other games peculiar to girls and which require a hard smooth surface.

ACCESSORIES.

A substantial fence, so that the playground can be closed at such times when deemed necessary. A playground without a fence may become a nuisance by encouraging or tempting children to remain out late at night,

Digitized by ^ooQle
-185-

©r by permitting it to be used without supervision after the caretakers have gone away.

The entrance gates should not be placed solely^ to make ingress convenient, but also to make exit somewhat difficult. You will find by doing this that there is much better discipline. Particularly boys are not so apt to do any mischief if they know it is hard to get away and the further the mischievous boy is in from the gate the better behaved he is.

The surface for the space where the play apparatus is erected should be covered with a sandy loam over which is spread a thin layer of finely screened cinders or torpedo sand. For the ball field and athletic field never use cinders but a mixture of clay and sandy loam. Turf or sod is desirable, even if it wears in spots as it keeps down the dust.

The playground should be well drained with the ordinary vitrified tile sewer pipe. If the ball field is not to be used as a skating pond it should be graded with the highest elevation at the center and the drains placed at the outer edges; if field is to be used for skating pond then reverse the grading and location of drains.

The playground should be provided with plenty of shade trees, shrubbery and flowers, particularly around the outer edges and in all spaces not devoted to the play interests. Narrow planting beds of shrubbery and flowers can be made to serve as a fence in separating the different play spaces. If thickly planted they are just as effective and add greatly to the appearance of the playground. %

APPARATUS.

In selecting the apparatus equipment for a playground there are three important factors to be considered:	The usefulness, durability and style

of construction, and the proper distribution of the apparatus.

USEFULNESS.

All play apparatus selected should have some gymnastic or athletic value, that is, it should require on the part of the user some degree of physical effort in order to make use of it and not only to provide amusement. Apparatus that is too mechanical is not desirable because it increases the danger of accidents, easily gets out of order and is usually of little benefit as muscle makers. It is better to have the user do the work than to have the apparatus do it.

The degree of effort required and the element of danger connected with its use, should be the guiding factor in the selection of apparatus for the different sex and age groups that are to use it. Apparatus suitable for a group of boys 15 years of age may become dangerous or detrimental if same is selected for a group of girls 10 years old. Some apparatus— particularly for boys—must obviously contain a certain degree of danger to be interesting, for if there is nothing in the playground to dodge he will practice on the passing automobiles and if there isn’t anything to flip he will u6e the street car. This point is more clearly explained in the list of apparatus recommended.

CONSTRUCTION.

Whether playground apparatus should be of wood or of iron construction is at present a mooted question. In Chicago we have a splendid opportunity of studying this problem as 9ome playgrounds use wood while others use iron or steel in the construction of mo9t of its apparatus equipment.

Digitized by LaOOQle
—18B—

Here are some of the pieces of apparatus that are now being mack of (galvanized iron or steel and which are held by some to be the best style of construction for playground use. Horizontal, vertical and slanting ladders, climbing poles, parallel bars and teeter ladders; these pieces of apparatus are just the ones that should never be made of steel or iron, if for no other reason than for their obnoxious effect upon the sense of touch, as these particular pieces of apparatus come in direct contact with the hands in making use of them. If the least bit too hot or cold they are very disagreeable to handle and can only be used without that ..unpleasant effect a few months in the year. Another point against the use of iron or steel for these pieces is the tendency of metal to cause perspiration on the hands, thereby weakening the grasp, increasing the danger of injury from slipping and falling off. In the playgrounds where iron is used in the construction of these pieces of apparatus they are not used as much as in playground# where this apparatus is constructed of wood. I believe it is because the iron apparatus is not as pleasant to handle.

This of course does not apply so much to the frame work or standards for the heavier pieces of apparatus. These, if wood is used, should be made of heavy yellow pine, should be painted once every year and the top flat surfaces where rain water is apt to collect protected with a heavy tin or galvanized iron cover. The only bad feature of the wood construction is the tendency of wood to decay at the ground line because of the dampness which settles at this point. I am of the opinion that wood will outlast iron above and below the surface of the ground, but it is the space directly at the ground line where most of the damage is done. By swabbing hot tar around the wood at this point once every year during the hot weather while the wood is thoroughly dry, it can be preserved again as long. The use of iron or steel for some pieces of apparatus is of course indispensable.

DISTRIBUTION.

I do not believe grouping a lot of apparatus u»pon one large frame work is desirable because it creates too much congestion, increases the danger of accident by one piece of apparatus conflicting with the use of another, or it is used in every conceiveable way except the correct way. Boys especially will swing and jump from one apparatus to the other and U9e the frame work in playing tag or chasing each other about, interfering with those who desire to use it in the proper way.

' Where each piece of apparatus is erected separately it eliminates the tendency to use the frame work for climbing upon and compels the patrons to use it in the way for which it was intended. By erecting the apparatus along the outer edges of the playground, leaving the open play field in the center of the ground, it distributes the patrons over a wider area, giving the director or supervisor a better opportunity for directing or teaching a particular group and of detecting from a distance any misuse of the aip-paratus, and lessens the danger of injury in coming in contact with the apparatus. If the space is to be used for skating in the winter months, all the apparatus will be out of the way, and an unobstructed field provided for this feature.

The following is a partial list of apparatus recommended for playground use and a general description of the construction:

Digitized by i^.ooQle
-187-

GIANT STRIDES (suitable for boys and girls, over IQ years of age.)

The pole should be made of cedar not less than 12 inches in diameter •at the base, not more than 16 feet in height, set four feet in the ground, well braced below the surface. The iron pole is not as desirable as the *cedar because of its tendency to vibrate and snap off without warning. If an iron pole is used it should be reinforced with a small pipe on the -inside rather than on the outside where the dampness can more readily get between the two pieces of pipe, causing it to rust. The revolving ball bearing disk or head piece should be constructed with the patented projecting arm pieces to which are attached the ropes which are suspended about 8 inches from the pole at the top, lessening the wear and tear on the ropes T>y preventing friction of the ropes and pole. The ladder ends should be at least 12 inches wide so as to permit a child to use them in a sitting position; they should reach to within 1 foot of the ground; the stride ropes with high, narrow ladder ends require too much exertion, especially lor children to use.

SLIDES

(suitable for both sexes under 10 years.)

This is a very popular apparatus especially for the small children. The exercise derived therefrom, while not very strenuous, is very exhilirat-ing and there is practically no danger connected with its use. The slide board should be made of 1% inch maple, 14 inches wide, preferably with two seven-inch strips fastened together with iron dowels to lessen the tendency to split. It is 16 feet long and the stairway about 8 feet high. To prevent the board from cracking and to insure a smooth surface it should "be oiled with raw linseed or fish oil at least twice a week and turned upside down during rainy weather.

LAWN SWINGS (suitable for both sexes, all ages.)

Although very innocent looking, these are the most dangerous things to have in a playground, if not properly constructed. The less mechanism the better. The uprights may be made of yellow pine, should not be over 15 feet high, the seats and footboard should be made of maple, the car or basket suspended from 1 to 6 inches above the surface of the ground.

CIRCLE BARS (suitable for both sexes, all ages.)

The apparatus should be about 12 feet in diameter, the wearing parts made of hickory, the table revolving_upon ball bearings and attached to the iron pipe support in such a manner as to eliminate obstructing braces underneath likely to hit children falling under the apparatus.

ROPES

All rope, whether for strides, swings, swinging rings or climbing, should be made of Manilla hemp, braided in three strands each strand being separately braided to insure strength and durability. Rope made of cotton or wood fiber should never be used as it breaks easily and is rough on the hands. For swings the rope should be attached to the frame by being looped arount a wooden block attached to an iron rod in such a way as to bring the wood to bear against the iron. It should be attached to the seat board so that the rope can easily be detached and reversed when it begins to show signs of wear where it is usually grasped by the hands.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-188 -

LADDERS (both sexes over io years.)

All ladders should be made of maple because of its strength and durability. The short grain of this wood eliminates the danger from splinters and slivers. The bottom of the ladder should be anchored to a concrete base about 6 inches above the ground. These should be painted rather than varnished because the pigment in the paint fills up the pores of the wood.

CLIMBING POLES (both sexes over io years.)

These should also be made of maple for the same reasons as given for the ladders. The maple becomes harder from exposure and wears smooth. Its one disadvantage is the tendency to warp. I am not sure that even this is a disadvantage. Personally I think there is more fun in climbing a warped pole than a straight one. Of course it does not look as well as an iron pole, but we place them in the playground to be used, not to be looked at. The pole may be attached to the frame or standard by an “L” pin running through a hole in the upper end of the pole so as to bring wood to bear against the iron rather than iron against iron, which wears out more readily.

PARALLEL BARS (suitable for boys over io years.)

The uprights may be made of wood or iron but the cross bars should be made of second growth ash or hickory, it has more elasticity, feejs better to the touch and doesn’t rust as do the steel bars. Care should be taken not to make them too wide, never more than 18 inches for adults, or 15 inches for children. If uprights are made of iron 3 inch pipe should be used to insure rigidity.

HORIZONTAL BARS (suitable for both sexes over 10 years.)

The uprights may be made of wood or iron, the bar made of steel l]/i inches thick, and from 6 to 8 feet wide; steel is preferable because of its strength and the thin bar insuring a firmer grasp than does the thick wooden bar. Whenever a wooden bar is used it should be reinforced with a steel rod through the center.

VAULTING BUCK OR HORSE (suitable for both sexes over 10 years.)

What to use as a covering for this apparatus is a problem. Leather is die best but too expensive for outdoor use, as it is easily ruined by exposure. Two layers of tough canvas, each layer painted and put on separately, the same finished with two coats of flexible gutta percha paint, is perhaps the most durable covering for outdoor use.

This apparatus should be constructed with four leg supports, rather than the single support type, because in missing the vault and falling head foremost the spreading legs of the buck or horse afford an opportunity to catch hold of thereby breaking the fall. A fall forward from the single support buck is very dangerous and often if high, results in fractured wrists and forearms.

For the jumping stands, shot put rings, hurdles and other athletic and hand apparatus most any of the standard makes will be found practical.

SUPPLIES.

A sufficient assortment of bats, baseballs, basket balls; foot balls, jump-

Digitized by v^ooQle
—189—

ing sticks, vaulting poles, bean bags, quoits, etc., should be kept on hand, and of course the necessary tools and implements required in the care and upkeep of the grounds and equipment.

I have not attempted to designate the number of pieces of apparatus to be placed in a given area or the amount required for a given number of patrons, as this can more easily be determined by local conditions. However it is well to follow this principle:	Where	space or funds prevent the

installation of a great variety of apparatus only such pieces as will accomodate a large number of patrons at one time, such as circle bars, rocking boats, lawn swings, giant strides, etc., and such apparatus as can be used in rapid succession, such as slides, etc., should be selected.

—-With the interest which the attempted assasination of Mayor Gaynor of New York City has aroused in this broadminded man, the following article which Mayor Gaynor wrote for the September number of the Pictorial Review will be of special interest to all teachers of physical training:

“The American child mav have too much candy, too much finery, too much freedom of speech in „the family circle, and too much theoretical education, but it has never had too much attention from the government, national, state, or municipal.

4‘Take, for instance, the problem of the child the streets. We receive stacks of complaints. And I ask. Wfio has the greater right to the streets of New York, a child or an automobile? Within reason a child has a right to play in the streets. What is to be done with the active youngsters? Are they to be shut up in pens like cattle ready for shipment to the shambles ?

"Most of the complaints that have come to my office about children have come from childless men and women. They have grown to hate themselves and everybody else, but even these ill-natured complaints must not be lightly dealt with. They are signboards pointing to the need of more room for children to grow up in.

“We have had too much educational refinement. By this I mean the refinement of the educational system itself. We want simpler courses of study. Most of the modern children are top heavy. There should be no study after school hours for the smaller children, and very little of it for the older ones.

“A lot of pressure has been brought to bear on me concerning the prize fight pictures. You cannot “sissify” the American boy. He will not permit it—and you do not want him to do it. I have never seen a prize fight, but I have no quarrel with the man who wants to see one. If pictures of a prize fight will teach a boy how to defend himself when called upon to do so, then I say let him see the fight pictures. The man who ralils against prize fighting is the very man who would wallop his son well if the latter did not know how to defend himself when attacked by another boy. The man with red blood in his veins knows that blows such as boys will exchange will not kill, and the right blow rightly landed, *may make a man of a boy who has had too much book learning and too little physical development.

“I feel the same way on the subject of dancing. I even receive protests against dancing in the public schools, dancing in the city parks, and

Digitized by CaOOQle
-190-

the scheme of establishing municipal dance halls. Now, young people want to dance. It is a perfectly wholesome, natural desire. I wanted to dance when I was young. I did it and it never hurt me. The boys and girls of to-day want to dance, and, mark my words, they will dance.

“Therefore, it becomes the duty of every city to see that its young, people dance in the right place. Do not imply the worst motives to the boys and girls who frequent dance halls. Give them the right sore of dance halls and just see them desert the wrong sort.

“And it is the same with moving pictures. I have been going to see moving pictures. They are all right. The harm lies in the way ohildren go to see them. If they go with the wrong kind of company that is up to the mother. She ought to know who takes her ohildren to moving picture shows, theatres, etc.

“We have twenty-seven playgrounds in the city of New York. They will do the children who can reach them a lot of good, but among New York’s million or more of children they are—well, just a flea bite.

“And do you see the duty of the municipality to children is a big problem. It is not going to be solved to-day nor to-morrow, but it will be solved in time. We must move slowly and not make grave mistakes. All progress in government, sociology, politics, philosophy, and religion to be good must be the result of slow and careful growth. How slowly do our bodies grow! How slow is the growth of trees! How long was the Almighty brooding over His work?”

REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR OF THE GYMNASIUM AND

BATHS/

Brookline, Mass., December, 1909.

To the Gymnasium and Bath Committee:—

During the last year much progress has been made by our department, and I, therefore, take great pleasure in having the honor to submit my second annual report. Last year’s report included much’ information concerning the buildings, grounds, equipment, courses of instruction and other newly established conditions. This will be incorporated in our descriptive pamphlets and need not be repeated here. I wish to call special attention to the steps taken in constructing our machinery of organization. (Webster’s definition of organization is:	“To	construct so that one part may

co-operate with another.”)

The chief elements in a strong organization are:—

1.	Discipline.

The success of any department depends upon good discipline. Learning to obey the law is an important part of education. Rules and regulations governing the use of buildings and grounds should be respected and obeyed with the knowledge that they are made for the best interest of all.

2.	System.

Our business is planned and rules and regulations are made in such a manner that the machinery of the department may work practically auto- *

* As municipal'gymnasiums and baths are increasing in number the following clear-cut report will be of interest to many of our readers. Ed.

Digitized by Google
—191—

matically. We recognize the rule of cause and effect. This enables us to do our business with promptness and thoroughness, with fairness toward all. All may enjoy the same privileges, none more than another.

3.	Co-Operation and Organized Effort.

Each branch of activity is given its proper proportionate value but exaggerated importance is carefully avoided. The relation of each part to the whole is clearly defined. The various branches are arranged so as to form the most desirable union, the value of unity in one department being obvious.

4.	Standards and Aims.

The gymnasium and baths are considered primarily as educational institutions. This should be the unquestioned standard. They may be cofl; sidered educationally in three ways:	(a) Physically, (b) Morally, (c)

Socially. The length of this report does not permit me to write in detail of these interesting and important considerations; but I am sure this educational value will be more generally realized by the citizens of Brookline as time goes on.

We desire that our buildings and grounds should be attractive and pleasing, the atmosphere surrounding all cheerful and friendly; the instruction a pleasing diversion from care and worry, and sports be indulged in for sport’s sake alone.

THE DEPARTMENT.

GYMNASIUM CLASSES.

The regular schedule of classes has remained unchanged, as the present classification is proving satisfactory. Those who have attended regularly, since the beginning, January 20, 1908, are showing marked physical improvement. Interest and confidence increases with length and regularity of attendance. Much depends upon the individual as to how much benefit he or she receives. A whole-hearted, earnest, continued effort to improve all the opportunities afforded generally brings satisfactory results.

The director is planning a series of talks to be given before various Brookline organizations for the purpose of acquainting everyone with what is being done in the Gymnasium Classes. This will undoubtedly increase the attendance over even the present figures.

Appreciation is hereby expressed for the faithful and efficient work of the instructors and pianist.

THE EQUIPMENT.

The new gymnasium apparatus which was added to the equipment this year is much appreciated.

The new seating arrangement for gymnasium exhibition purposes is proving very satisfactory. It is arranged in tiers affording all spectators a full view of the gymnasium floor and can be put up, taken down and stored in the basement without difficulty.

Special apparatus has been placed in the Examination and Special Exercising rooms. This affords an opportunity for individual practice by those who can not conveniently attend a class or who desire special exercise.

HIGH SCHOOL.

Two hundred steel lockers have been provided for the use of High School boys. These classes now wear the regulation gymnasium costume which has a splendid effect, both upon the general appearance and the de-

Digitized by Google
-192—

portment. The various teams of the High School Athletic Association make good use of the Athletic Room for training.

NATATORIUM AND BATHS.

The large attendance at the Bath House gives evidence that the shower baths are being well patronized and the interest in swimming is becoming more general than ever.

As a healthful sport, beneficial exercise and worthy accomplishment, swimming is unsurpassed. Many pools are being built in connection with other gymnasiums showing universal interest. No doubt an era of great activity is before us in this branch of exercise. Last year the giving of free swimming instruction to Brookline children was placed in our hands. Formerly this was done by the school department. Both departments now co-operate and the valuable agency of the schools is used as before.

Lesson tickets are issued systematically to all the school grades in turn, but any child, whether in public or private school, is eligible for this instruction. The pupils are arranged in classes and assigned certain periods for instruction.

The work done for the small children during the summer months is most valuable and worthy. The generous service rendered volluntarily by those in charge deserves high appreciation. Dr. Augusta Williams has reported especially upon this.

A definite time has been set aside for water sports and swimming races. Tuesday evenings, after 8:30, the pool is used for this purpose. Notices are posted to this effect so that patrons may not be unexpectedly caused inconvenience.

LAUNDRY.

Attention is called to the splendid work done in the laundry connected with the bath house. Credit is due those employed in this work, and in the care of the buildings, for keeping a high standard of cleanliness and neatness.

. .,	OUTDOOR	GYMNASIUM AND ATHLETIC COURT.

Last spring the gymnasium grounds were equipped with certain gymnastic apparatus. The landing pits were filled with tan bark. Six arc lights were provided by the Heating and Lighting Committee. A hygienic drinking fountain was provided by the Water Commissioners. The use of the grounds was regulated, a schedule being arranged for boys, girls and men and proper deportment required. Much interest is taken in these grounds during the spring, summer and fall, the whole proving quite successful.

The Athletic Court between the Gymnasium and Bath House is also made good use of for jumping, vaulting, weight putting, etc. All movable gymnastic and athletic apparatus is kept at night in a large rainproof box. Altogether this outdoor equipment adds greatly to the usefulness of the department.

GYMNASIUM ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION.

Competitive sports, properly supervised, are an important branch of our activities. They are, however, the cause of much criticism throughout the country. Not so much the sports themselves, but the abuses which may enter into them. If we are to recognize and maintain competitive sports, and I believe we should, the sports themselves and the business connected

Digitized by CjOOQle
-193-

^vvith them must always be carefully directed. The high standards which make up manly character should be interpreted in the spirit of the game.

An Athletic Organization is necessary in order to properly conduct Competitive Sports. The work of attending to the many details required for maintaining teams, conducting exhibitions and competitions and holding relationship with the Amateur Athletic Union, requires the machinery of a well organized Athletic Association, such as we now have.

The Gymnasium Athletic Association is therefore one of our most important branches. An organization in itself, it is a part of our complete system of physical education. It holds the same relation to this department as the college or school Athletic Association does to those institutions. The Association is even more essential to us than to the college or school as we are primarily conducting a department of physical education.

ORGANIZATION OF THE B. G. A. A.

Our Athletic Association is practically a Municipal Athletic Association, as any citizen in good standing may become a member. It thus gives everyone who is interested in such matters an opportunity to have a part in them, yet it compels no one to share unwillingly. The officers and Board of Directors are elected by ballot at the annual meeting. The Chairman of the Gymnasimu and Baths Committee is President, and the Town Treasurer acts as Treasurer. The Board of Directors is made up of representative citizens, including the Principal of the High School, a member of the Park Commissioners, and well known business and professional men of Brookline.

Each branch of tbe Association has its own officers and manages its own affairs. Committees on each sport are chosen by the Board of Directors. Being a part of the department, the Association is subject to final supervision of the Gymnasium and Baths Committee and the Director.

Nearly 300 senior and junior members are already enrolled.

At present the Association is represented by the following successful teams:

1.	Baseball. 2. Boxing. 3. Gymnastics. 4. Hockey. 5. Swimming. 6. Track. 7. Wrestling. 8. Rowing (being organized.)

An attractively fitted up room in the gymnasium, known as the Association Room, serves as its headquarters.

AIMS OF THE ASSOCIATION.

The Association aims to conduct and maintain competitive sports upon the highest educational, moral and social basis.

The objects as given in the Constitution are: “The encouragement of systematic physical exercise and education and the promotion of athletic sports in Brookline and vicinity.”

Interesting and instructive exhibitions and competitions are given throughout the year in the gymnasium and baths.

The lecture on playgrounds by Dr. Curtis of Washington in the Town Hall last November was arranged and paid for by the Association.

The following calendar events for the past year will show how active it has been at home. It Jhas also been active away from home, the teams having won many honors on the track, field and diamond.

CALENDAR EVENTS FOR 1909.

January 16—Gymnastic and Athletic Exhibition.

Digitized by LaOOQle
-194-

February 24—Illustrated talk on Foreign Baths and Olympic Games.

March 9—Handicap High Jumping Contest.

March 20—Gymnastic and Athletic Exhibition.

April 22—Closing Gymnastic Demonstration by the Classes.

April 27—Handicap Shot; Putting Contest.

June 5—Field day for Brookline Schools.

June 19—Banquet given to High School Baseball Team.

June 13—B. G. A. A. is close second to B. A. A. for N. E. track championship.

July 4—Town Games—Athletics, Swimming and Baseball.

November 17—Gymnastic and Athletic Exhibition.

November 24—N. E. ten-mile championship race arranged by Brookline. (Team prize won by Brookline.)

December 8—Lecture on Playgrounds.

December ii—Annual Road Race for B. G. A. A. Juniors.

December 14—Exhibition of Water Sports.

December 28—Water Sports and Gymnastics (A. A. A. S. Dele-

SateS-^	SUPPORT	OF THE ASSOCIATION.

It is obvious that this work must have a proper means of support. It does not seem advisable to use funds from the regular town appropriation for maintenance and support of the gymnasium and baths for this purpose. There are two ways provided through which a suitable income is received. First:	Through	the	initiation	fees and membership dues. Second: By

conducting one annual pay exhibition in the gymnasium and pool.

TO INCREASE THE MEMBERSHIP.

The Association is broad enough to include every one who is interested in any phase of its activities, and every one is invited to become identified, with it. When the broad policy and democratic character of the organization is fully understood the membership will undoubtedly be greatly increased.

EXHIBITIONS, COMPETITIONS AND DEMONSTRATIONS.

These have created such a general interest that they have become established affairs. The events are selected and arranged so as to be both interesting and instructive to the large audiences attending. We only regret that the capacity of the buildings does not allow us to issue tickets equal to the demand. It has been found desirable to require that young boys and girls who attend be accompained by parent or guardian.

FOURTH OF JULY GAMES.

The games of 1909 were very successful, including base ball, track and field events and swimming contests at the reservoir. We heartily appreciate the action of the electmen in giving our department charge of the games. This should become customary as it is perfectly logical that the town department of physical education should direct afftirs of this character. Otherwise we are placed in an undignified position and marked as being incompetent.

I advised the construction of one more large float for use at the reservoir. Hereafter only two picked men will be in the boats provided for the safety of exhausted swimmers.

Benches or settees should be provided for women and their escorts who* patronize the games on Cypress Street Playground.

Digitized by C^ooQle
-195-

WOMAN'S AUXILIARY.

Appreciation is felt for the splendid voluntary assistance rendered us by members of the women's classes. Refreshments were served from daintily arranged tables in the small gymnasium to the participants in the November exhibition. During the visit of the American Association for the Advancement of Science delegates the women served a very attractive luncheon and assisted in entertaining the guests. A delightful bridge whist party was held at the Hotel Beaconsfield in December for the benefit of the Gymnasium Athletic Association. The committee in charge presented the Association with a $125.00 check as a result of their successful efforts. The Women's Auxiliary of the gymnasium is now in process of organization. Such co-operation is indeed acceptable and pleasing.

The issuing of diplomas to those qualifying in certain tests of proficiency is being considered. These tests consist of fundamental physical ac^ tivities such as running, jumping, hurling or throwing, swimming, climbing, bodily control tested by certain gymnastic exercises and in the principles of the various methods of self defense, e. g., boxing, wrestling and fencing. Personal qualifications, such as good deportment, faithful attendance, etc., also to be considered. These diplomas of junior and senior grades would be officially issued by the town. No doubt they would earnestly be striven for as the honor of possessing such a diploma of merit would not fail to be appreciated.

RECOMMENDATIONS.

-This department should be known as the Department of Physical Education of the town of Brookline. I therefore recommend that immediate Steps be taken for such official recognition.

Town of Brookline, Department of Physical Education, should henceforth be used on our records and on our stationery. This is highly desirable and the town could well take pride in such a broad and leading movement.

In connection with our outdoor grounds, I recommend:

First:	That	a part, if not all of the land extending to the railroad

bridge be added to the gymnasium property. When properly graded this ground will be exceedingly useful for handball courts and other equipment. Closely connected with the buildings with locker rooms, baths and other facilities, this would be a most logical addition.

Second:	That	the grounds be inclosed with an open iron fence with

a proper entrance and exit. This is essential, being the only means to assure proper supervision. If it is not possible to secure more ground, what we have should be enclosed as described.

Third: Well kept grounds promote good deportment and the reverse is true. The present ragged appearance of the grounds in front of our , buildings is not in keeping with the fine buildings and splendid patronage.

I recommend that these conditions be improved.

PLAYGROUNDS.

A start should be made in the development of the town's playgrounds and in organizing playground activities. Without discussing the subject at length I will make several suggestions. With the proposed addition to the gymnasium grounds and the whole suitably equipped, this outdoor gymnasium and athletic court may be known as the Gymnasium Playground.
-196-

The Cypress Street grounds should be developed into a good athletic field. Tennis courts might well be maintained on these grounds.

The Emerson grounds may be considered a children’s playground, and should be equipped for that purpose.

These three playgrounds may form the central group in the Playground System.

The administration may be outlined in general as follows:—

(a)	Equipment and care of grounds, including policing.

(b)	Supervision of playground activities.

(c> Conducting exhibitions and competitions.

This may best be done by the co-operation of the Park Commissioners and this department.

The value of the town’s playgrounds will depend upon how well they may be supervised. Instructors should be in charge of the grounds themselves and the whole system be under proper direction.

IN CONCLUSION.

Constructing this whole organization with its many branches has not been done without some difficulty. Complications arise when a new and larger organization is being built upon an old foundation. Methods which suited former conditions do not suit the new. Former precedent and old traditions are not easily overcome, no matter how good the reasons may be for changes or how sound the principles are upon which changes are made. Progress and growth is generally an obstacle race.

The gymnasium and iaths are public institutions in the same sense that the public schools are public institutions, the use of which is carefully regulated to serve the highest purpose.

High standards, though difficult to realize and maintain, are being worked for diligently. We must be prepared to meet the criticism of not only the citizens of Brookline, but also of the foremost authorities on education and physical training everywhere, and be worthy of a place in the front rank among Departments of Physical Education.

Last year certain problems of organization occupied touch time and energy. These being now settled more attention will be given to the further securing of public interest in our work and the further systematizing of the courses of instruction.

Your director has the welfare of all deeply at heart and is working to make Brookline’s Department of Physical Education second to none in every respect. To this end the co-operation of all is earnestly desired and that a splendid future be assured; let us all feel a new inspiration and interest as we realize its high and noble purpose:	To	educate the youth to

strong efficient citizenship; to strengthen the body so as to best serve the mind in every day toil; to teach that fairness to all, consideration for others, personal sacrifice for the good of the greatest number and a true spirit of democracy are standards to be striven for; that prejudice of race, sect or social class is narrow and should be eliminated and all be judged upon the ability to measure up to a whole-hearted, broad-minded, charitable, manly or womanly character. These are the standards which will cause this department to be an influence for good not only in our own community but beyond our own borders.

We most heartily thank the people of Brookline for their co-operation,

Digitized by
-197-

encouragement and support, without which the present success would be impossible. During the coming year the standards and aims will be kept high, enthusiasm will not wane and good results will be sure.

Respectfully submitted,

J. Leonard Mason, Director.

GYMNASTIC AND ATHLETIC NEWS.

By EMANUEL HAUG, 507 West 158th St., New York.

—C. F. Thomson of Los Angeles, Cal., won the all-around championship of the Amateur Athletic Union at Marshall Field, Chicago, Aug. 13, 1910. His score was 6,991 points, 400 less than that which captured the championship last year. The events in which each competitor had to compete were:—100 yd. dash, 16 lb. shot put, running high jump, 880 yd. walk, 16 lb. hammer throw, pole vault, 120 yd. hurdle race, 56 ib. weight throw, running broad jump, and 1 mile run.

Thomson scored his points as follows:	100 yd. dash, 832; shot put,

719; high jump, 614; 880 yd. walk, 792; hammer throw, 748; hurdles, 910; pole vault, 600; 56 lb. weight, 474; broad jump, 628; mile run, 674; total, 6,991.

—G. W. Gaidzik of the Chicago A. A. won the national fancy diving championship with 79 1-3 points, and L. B. Goodwin of the New York A. C. captured the 880 swim in 13 minutes 12 seconds, at Travers Island, N. Y., under the auspices of the New York Athletic Club, Aug. 13, 1910.

This seems to be a year of “Record Breaking.” Marks which have stood for 20 years and more have been replaced this year, and some of them by a very decided improvement. Two of the greatest cuts in time were made by Melville Sheppard of the Irish American A. C. and Charlie Bacon of the New York A. C.

Sheppard lowered the record for 1000 yds., which has stood on the Record Book of the A. A. Uvfor 29 years, from 2 min .13 sec. to 2 min. 12 2-5 sec. This old record was made by Lon Myers at Travers Island Oct. 8, 1881.

Charlie Bacon lowered the colors of the formerly invincible “Al” Copeland in the low hurdles. The distance was l/i mile, with 20 hurdles two feet six inches high. Bacon’s time of 1 min. flat was the best performance in a similar event since “Al” Copeland created the mark of 1 min. 9 4-5 sec. in New York City on January 28, 1888.

Both men are in prime condition and it would not be surprising if at the end of the out-door season we find an entirely new set of records.

On Sunday, Aug. 15, 1910, Melville W. Sheppard broke three more running records, while Dan Ahearn, of the same club, broke the record for the hop, step and jump. Sheppard broke Tom Burke’s 500 and 600 yd. and his own 550 yd. world’s records. Burke’s records stood on the books since 1896. Sheppard’s time was as follows:

550 yds., 57 3-5 sec.—1-5 second better than Burke’s.

550 yds., 1.04 sec.—1 2-5 seconds better than his own.

600 yds., 1.10 4-5 sec.—1-5 second better than Burke’s.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
-198-

Dan Ahearn covered the distance of 51 ft. 2 7-8 in. in the hop, step and jump, beating the former world's record of 50 ft. 1-2 in.

Mr. Vance C. Roberts of the Poughkeepsie,N. J., Y. M. C. A., was recently chosen to carry Yankee ideas of physical training to darkest Africa. Mr. Roberts will start shortly to revolutionize the methods of the South African Branch of the Y. M. C. A.

Seattle, Wash., has sprung something new on the advocates of physical training. We have all heard, of “Gymnastic Exhibitions," “Folk Dancing Contests,” Athletic Games,” Etc., but who ever heard of a “Health Festival?” The program which consisted of fancy marches, flag salutes, songs, speeches, calisthenics, games and track events, was headed as follows:

“First Health Festival given by the Volunteer Play Leaders of the Public Schools, under the direction of the Department of Physical Training,” etc.

From clippings received the “Health Festival” was a great success. We extend our congratulations to colleague Lepper on this new—would you call it—fad.

—The Clean Sports League of the Carolinas has been organized to popularize athletic sports and to improve the standard of athletic activities, so as to harmonize them with the high purpose of education and good citizenship. “Sport for sport's sake” is its motto.

In 1909 one hundred and nineteen professional players of the National League were suspended for rowdyism and other offenses. Undoubtedly many offences were overlooked. Similarly in amateur ranks there is a continual violation of rules and principles which reflects upon our boast of being true sportsmen. Amateurs too often do things they hope will not come to light. Frequently spectators and rooters are unjust and their actions not always in accord with what is known to be right. The Clean Sports League of the Carolinas is an educational organization composed of the leading colleges and Y. M. C. A.'s in the Carolinas.

It is endorsed by the

1.	Southern Inter-Collegiate Athletic Association.

2.	Athletic League of North America.

3.	South Carolina Inter-Collegiate Athletic Association.

4.	Carolina Federation of Y. M. C. A.'s.

5.	Charleston Amateur Athletic Federation.

The following adopted code of ethics is simple—fair to the individual, to the large as well as to the small colleges, schools or other organizations. It appeals to the manhood in man, and all lovers of clean sport are asked to support it.

CLEAN SPORT PRINCIPLES.

1.	Both the home team and the home town should treat the visiting

team as a guest.

2.	Both players and spectators should recognize good plays of the

visiting team by suitable cheering.

3.	Players should play fair and be good losers.

4.	The umpire and the referee have difficult tasks to perform. Spec-

Digitized by Tooele
-199-

tators should accord them their moral support. The players should extend them hearty thanks as they leave the field.

5.	Condemn all use of profane language on the field.

Lists will be circulated in every town in the Carolinas, and every man and every boy big enough to swing a bat is requested to add his signature, with the understanding that an honest effort will be made to live up to these principles. Such action will add greatly t© the pleasure and dignity of athletic activities of the Carolinas.

It is four years since football was abolished at Columbia, and there are now no undergraduates left there who have known or seen the demoralizing influence of intercollegiate football. It is the unanimous testimony of Columbia professors that the autumn weeks have now, for the first time, become quiet, orderly, and abundant in work. Previously serious academic work began after Thanksgiving. Football dominated everything until that day. The tone of the student-body has improved, and now on the university exercising ground, South Field, there may be seen every afternoon hundreds of young men actively'engaged in sports, in games, and physical exercise, where, during the football period, there were but twenty-two rushing and tearing at each other, while a few score or few hundred stood on the side lines watching and cheering.

Football makes athletics impossible. Athletics cannot flourish until football is gotten out of the way. The rational and regular participation in outdoor sport by hundreds of students is an end devoutly to be wished for. It cannot be obtained, however, so long as the body of the whole student interest is focused on the gladiatorial struggle between two trained bodies of combatants, leaving to the students as a whole nothing to do but to watch. The alternative is between the real and the vicarious. Football for the mass of American students is a vicarious participation in athletics.

It is deplorable that Columbia’s example has not been followed by other large institutions. President Eliot talked and thundered against football, but Harvard did not uphold him. Other college presidents have gone to the length of defending football as a moral agent. One hardly knows how^ to deal with men who take such an attitude. Columbia has gained for itself a proud pre-eminence by an act of conspicuous moral courage, good sense, and high intelligence.—From “Effects of Football Reform at Columbia/’ in the American Review of Reviews.

BOOK REVIEW.

—“PLAY” by EMMETT D. ANGELL, comprising games for the Kindergarten, Playground, Schoolroom, and College. 190 pages inches, illustrated. Published by Little, Brown & Co., Boston. Mailing price $1.65.

The twenty to thirty pages preceding the description of the games themselves are interesting in many ways. We do not, however, agree with all the writer says when he compares the effects of gymnastic training, to training by means of games. Reading what he says, one might imagine that these two are antagonistic and had no relation with one another. A system of gymnastics without games is npt complete. The author also speaks of German gymnastics. If he will read up the history of German

Digitized by VjOOQle
-200-

gymnastics he will find that the earliest teachers of gymnastics in Germany used more games in their teaching than they did other forms of motor training. All this talk about the difference between gymnastics and games reminds one of the argument if soup, or steak, or dessert is the best meal. They all belong to a square meal. The teacher who does not know how to arrange a lesson containing all forms of -physical training; i. e., tactics, calisthenics, apparatus work, track and field work, dancing, etc., in correct proportions, ought to go to some decent normal school and study physical training materials. Such a teacher always reminds one of a physician graduated from “Wayback University” who hasn’t his materia medica at his fingers’ ends and who must use patent medicines for his patients. In the physical training world these patent medicines are found in the form of drills, folk dances, breathing exercises and like “cure-alls” that crop up with never-ending regularity. Games, we repeat, are an essential part of physical training, and are in no wise antagonistic nor substitutes for other forms of gymnastics. After this digression we may add that the games described in the book seem to be the result of practical experience. Teachers looking for “playable” games will find the book of great use. To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Building, Milwaukee.

. -“OPEN-AIR SCHOOLS” by LEONARD P. AYRES, Ph. D* 171 pages	inches,	illustrated.	Published	by Doubleday, Page &

Co., New York. Mailing price, $1.35.

Since the opening of the first open-air schools in Charlottenburg, Germany, the movement to keep school children out in the open air for the greater part of the day has been gaining force. Many cities that wish to know what has been done elsewhere, and how the different cities that have established open-air schools have gone about it, what the results have been, etc., will find the information they are looking for in this publication. The book can be recommended highly to all teachers _and parents. To be had from Mind and Body, Herold Building, Milwaukee.

—GENERAL BIOLOGY, by JAMES G. NEEDHAM, Ph. D.y Ass’t Prof, of Limnology and General Biology in Cornell University; with 64 practical studies, 287 text-figures and 9 portraits. The Comstock Publishing Co., Ithica, N. Y., 1910; 542 pages; price $2.00, postpaid $2.16.

“This book offers a series of practical studies of biological phenomena for the guidance of the general student. It is a guide intended to assist the student in acquiring for himself some real knowledge of living nature.”

As teachers of physical training we acquaint ourselves with anatomy and especially histology to enable us to understand the functions of the various parts of the human body. But our studies in these subjects would be greatly enhanced by a previous knowledge of biology, or the phenomena of living nature and the laws governing it. This study is fundamental to1 the study of anatomy and physiology and, as we teachers of physical education are guardians of the well-being of mankind and hope to participate? in the effort of man’s elevation to a higher standard physically, mentally and morally, biology is of importance to us.

We can recommend Prof. Needham’s book, as he treats the subject in a comprehensive manner. It is both interesting and valuable.—Dr. K.

. Digitized by Tooele