Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, cook co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, III.

Wm.Stecher, Sec’y. of the technical committee of the N. a. Gymnastic Union, cor. 8rd « chestnut 8t»8, St.Loui8,Mo. F. PFISTER, M. D., managing Editor, 780 Third 8t., MILWAUKEE, Wl8.

SOME REMARKS ON MANUAL TRAINING.

IN looking over the history of the manual training movement in this country one cannot but notice the gradual tendency there has been to let the hand-work begin earlier and earlier in school-life. At first shop-work was given in connection with the various technical courses at the schools of technology, of which Cornell is one of the foremost examples. Then came the manual training high schools, and lastly the introduction of hand-work into the common schools, until at present almost all progressive cities furnish facilities for it to the boys of the grammar grades. The aim of the work has in general agreed with the aim of the school. In the schools of technology the aim has been entirely technical, in the grammar schools purely educative, that is, there has been at least no idea of developing specialized skill.

With no thought of depreciating the work already done, I am sure all friends of manual training hope that it will be extended still further and include girls as well as boys in the grammar grades, and all children of the primary grades, where the need for it, I believe, is the greatest of all.

It is generally agreed, I believe, that the period of greatest development of the motor centers occurs between the ages of five and fifteen years, and that the time for most effectively training an organ is during its time of growth. From our own experiences we know that the creative instinct, the desire to do something with one’s hands, to make things, is very much alive in the child six or seven years old. Every teacher who has had to do with little children will testify that the

Digitized by Google
-174-

children are never so happy in their work, so attentive, so interested, as when something is going forward in which they can take an active part.

Every teacher has, no doubt, noticed how utterly impossible it seems for children to keep their hands off from rulers and pencils on the desk before them. Is this entirely a spirit of mischief, or is it not perhaps a desire to have the hand occupied ?

It is the concrete that appeals to children. One real thing which they may handle and use is of more value in their eyes than a thousand abstractions. Give a child an adequate motive and material to realize it, and I believe the problem of attention is in a great measure solved for him.

Nor need other subjects be neglected to favor the hand-work. Where can number be better taught than where there is an absolute need for it in accomplishing a desired end ?

Simple problems of constructive geometry are continually appearing, and under the impulse of the predominant motive, the desire to accomplish a certain end, the construction is taught without difficulty to the children of the third and fourth grades. Reading, too, may be taught by writing the necessary directions upon the black-board.

There is another very grave reason why the primary grades ought not to be neglected in this matter of hand-work, and that is the fact that such a very large percentage of children are obliged the quit school at the end of the fourth year grade. Is it not manifestly unfair that they who stand most in need of motor training and training in adapting means to an end should be wholly deprived of it ?

One mistake which is rather generally made in hand-work for little children is having them work on small objects. Of course the work must be adapted to their strength, but it should be work that requires large free movements of the arms and body, not that which requires finger movements. Too much accuracy should not be insisted upon at first, owing to the imperfect co-ordination of the young child’s hand and eye, but in time the child himself, judging his work by its fitness for the purpose for which it is made, will come to see the necessity of care and accuracy in measurement.

While manual training in no way takes the place of gymnastics, it, especially carpenter work, should be a very important element in physical training. In order to make it so, however, attention must be given to several important points.

The bench should be suited to the height of the pupil. One too high prevents good work and causes waste of energy. One too low is worse from a physical standpoint, as it induces a stooping posture and hanging head. No work should be permitted which compels a bad position. Wood carving, for example, is open to this criticism.

The two most frequently used exercises in carpenter work, sawing and planing, are both movements which permit of excellent gymnastic positions, and the teacher should take great pains to see that these correct positions become habitual. The use of these two tools may be learned, fortunately, almost as well with the left as with the right hand, and the teacher should see to it that both hands are used, as there is a real danger in this work of developing the right side of the

Digitized by Google
-175-

body at the expense of the left, if the pupil is left to himself in the matter.

In general, in regard to position, care should be taken that the chest is kept active in all exercises, that the head is never allowed to droop forward, and that bending forward shall be from the hips and not by curving the back.

The good physical effects of hand-work can in no way be better shown than by noting its effect upon persons nervous and tired out from too much brain work. The brain, the muscles, the eyes, and the sense of touch are all brought into play under the stimulus of the desire to bring about a certain end in a manner that seems to create a balance between them, each one having its part to perform and none being over-strained.—Exch.

THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE WILL THROUGH PHYSICAL TRAINING.

By WILLIAM O. KROHN, Professor of Experimental Psychology, University of Illinois.—A Paper read at the Meeting of the Department of Physical Education of the N. E. A. at Milwaukee, July 1897.

(Concluded.)

NEARLY all the movements that characterize the child’s life belong to the class denominated impulsive movements. They constitute the larger number of acts manifested by the new-born child as they do in the new-born animal. In the new-born child, as in the new-born animal, the impulsive movements embrace all those spontaneous kickings, rollings, lip-suckings, cooings, jerkings of the head and arms, as well as the comical grimaces, all of which are such a paramount feature of the early weeks of infant life. The little fists are tightly clenched, the arms are continually performing wild sweeping movements, the hands are moved toward and from the face, toward and from each other, without being prompted by any definite purpose ; in fact nearly every muscle of the body is called into activity without the presence of any sort of external stimulus. Most of the impulsive movements, indeed, nearly all of them, disappear by the end of the child’s second year, though some of them, like yawning or gaping, persist through life. Seemingly many of the impulsive movements are unexpected by the child itself. While these impulsive movements in themselves are not volition acts in the true sense, they show that the organism is a little world in itself, with the power of creating motions from within, and that it does not need to wait for external incentives to set it into activity. These impulsive movements are indeed the raw material which in the progressively unfolding will are so wrought upon by the child in its incessant activity that they are finally moulded and transformed, with the help of the other powers of the mind, into the highest type of deliberative actions.

Close upon the heels of the spontaneity which is manifested in the earliest stages of existence as a natural efflux of a super-abundance of life, close upon these earliest self-movements in the path of development of the organism, irritability manifests itself. By irritability is meant the power of responding to an external stimulus. By reflex movements,

Digitized by CjOOQLe
—176—

then, we mean those that occur as a response on the part of the nervous system to external stimulation, without any participation of self-consciousness or the presence of any deliberation or choice. They never enter into consciousness during their performance, though sometimes we clearly remember them after they have been performed. These reflex movements are found in the adult as well as in the child; for example the quick start on hearing the sudden report of a gun discharged near you, the quick withdrawal of the hand when one is picking bernes and suddenly observes a snake coiled up in close proximity, or the startled jump made by a boy as he gets into bed and his feet come in contact with a cold, clammy banana skin surreptitiously placed there by a mischievous mate.

We see, then, that while reflex movements are not brought about immediately or directly by the internal state, but by a stimulus from the external world, they are nevertheless purely mechanical— they are most certainly not the result of conscious deliberation.

Reflex movements are of the greatest importance and far-reaching significance in will-devolopment, for on them the strictly voluntary movements are immediately dependent.

Insofar as a line can be drawn between the reflex movements and the instinctive movements, it must be by saying that the latter are more complex, more active and more conscious than the former. Instead of the momentary nervous discharge, so plainly manifest in the reflex as well as in the impulsive movements, there is a directing of the activities to a more or less distant end. Stimulus is required in order to set an instinct to work, but the kind of action is determined far more by the motor tendencies implanted and inculcated in the individual than in the nature of the stimulus. The stimulus serves only to open the valve that the motor tendencies may escape. The stimulus “presses the button,** the reacting organism “does the rest.”

We can best study the genesis of ideational or true will-movements when we note how the tvill gradually brings the bodily movements under its control. This is the first important accomplishment in the course of the will's training, and it is so important that motor-ideas must be considered as the basis of all conscious volition. To all external appearances action is directed from within outward, but even this presupposes an inner activity—a determining of the ideas by the thought of an end to be attained. The thought of an end is the most important element ; indeed it is the distinguishing characteristic of all ideational movements. Passing over the impulsive, reflex, and instinctive movements in turn, we find that ideational movements are different from each and all of these in that they (ideational) involve the previous portrayal or representation to the mind of an end sought, an object to be acquired, or an aim to be realized. It is only to such movements as these that the term “voluntary actions” can be applied. All the other classes are only movements in just the same sense that movements among physical phenomena are movements.

In the higher forms of will-activity, then, we have the presence of motor-ideas that are determined by the thought of an end or desired object. Certain conditions are essential in order that we may have
-177-

thcse motor-ideas. The first condition is that movements must be made which are felt. This shows that ideational movements exist only by virtue of the spontaneous reflex and instinctive activities. Impulsive and reflex movements constitute the material which serves as the basis of our motor-ideas. A motor impulse always pre-supposes the memory of an executed movement which really consists in recalling the appearance of the previously executed movement or in remembering the previous motor sensation itself.

How does physical training of the right kind assist in the development of will ?

In the first place systematic training cultivates a series of motor habits that are of immense value in the economy of human action. There are four good reasons for making as many as possible of our acts habitual.

1.	Habitual actions are performed with greater accuracy than are our other movements. The piano player and the swift type-writer are illustrations of this fact.

2.	Habitual actions require less mental effort—are performed with less labor, saving a large amount of energy for necessarily new adjustments. Habit is the greatest labor-saving device known to the mind.

3.	Habitual actions are less fatiguing than other forms of movement.

4.	Habitual actions are performed in less time.

In the second place physical training that occurs in accordance with the periods of growth establishes a set of enduring motor cues—of motor remembrances—that cannot help but be of the greatest advantage in the higher development of will power along the lines of self-direction and self-control. The organism, well trained, becomes so well adjusted to every possible condition of action, is so adapted to every kind of circumstances, that the individual thus trained realizes that he is master of conditions and not a log drifting down the stream of time, a rudderless bark moved about by the wind of other men’s breath.

In the third place physical training, in emphasizing the motor .side of education, makes possible a larger degree of attention and more intense interest, both of which re-act directly on the will power. Strongly concentrated attention, that is effective for mental development, can only exist in connection with activity of some sort. Mental effort, which is what we mean by attention, is intense only when accompanied by some sort of physical expression. Furthermore, this physical expression, this bodily activity, leaves in its wake the most potent memory clues.

In the fourth place physical training presents each exercise as a whole, as an entire, complete thing to the child. To the teacher each exercise does not appear as a whole, but in relation to some other exercise. But to the child each exercise, whether with wand or dumbbell, is for the time being a whole — an entity — a complete thing. This gives rise to a thorough organic interest.

In the fifth and last, but not least important, place among the reasons presented within the narrow limits ol this paper we must remind ourselves that nerve-cells in the human body are created to do three things :

Digitized by VjOOQle
-178-

1.	To generate energy.

2.	To discharge energy.

3.	To inhibit or control energy.

In educating the child our chief concern must necessarily be the development of the last of these functions. That education is at fault, indeed, does not educate at all, that fails to better organize the inherent capacity of inhibition and self-control. And what can be more important, more effective in bringing about this development and organization than physical training ? Observe, if you will, the beautiful self-poise induced by such training as is given from time to time in the classes that meet in this building. This is but a fair example of what is taking place in the best schools all over our broad land—all of them co-operating in making the individual more complete in that they develop powers of self-control and self-direction that would otherwise lie dormant. What is more contemptible, what is more despicable than the individual of weak will, the man without a purpose, hugging the earth and grovelling in the dust, refusing to rise because his innate strength of will has remained undeveloped ? What is nobler than the individual who, conscious of his strength of will, rises above every circumstance, knowing by experience that the higher he climbs the mountain of difficulty, the broader the horizon and the more beautiful is the view? What the world of to-day requires is not mere goodness, but strength. We are not so much in need of psalm-singers as of individuals who are veritable engines of truth. There is a large need of individuals of unfaltering energy, of definiteness of purpose—in other words, strong, complete personalities. Such products only result when these bodies are judiciously and thoroughly trained so as to furnish an ample and complete physical basis for vigorous thought and health giving morality. Then it is that we have the individual of heroic mould.

“What makes a hero ? An heroic mind Expressed in action, in endurance proved ;

One glorious triumph of the heroic will,

One self-approval in his heart of hearts.”

What is the sort of individual, the sort of product of our schools that this day and age most demands? Let the poet Holland answer:

“God give us men: a time like this demands Strong minds, great hearts, true faith, and ready hands:

Men whom the lust of office does not kill;

Men whom the spoils of office will not buy;

Men who possess opinions and a will;

Men who have honor; men who will not lie;

Men who can stand before a demagogue

And damn his treacherous flatteries without winking;

Tall men, sun-crowned, who live above the fog In public duty and private thinking !

For while the rabble with their thumb-worn creeds,

Their large professions and their little deeds,

Mingle in selfish strife, lo: Freedom weeps,

Wrong rules the land, and waiting Justice sleeps!

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for one year on receipt of $4.00 for 4 new subscribers.
-179-

SOMETHING ABOUT TEACHERS OF GYMNASTICS.

A paper read at the Convention of Gymnastic Instructors of the N. A. G. U., August 3, at Milwaukee, By HY. HARTUNG, M. D., Chicago, 111.

HAT means he must be educated to know perfectly all the means

and methods by virtue of which he is able to teach all the various bodily movements in accordance with our ideal of physical perfection.

Many are gifted by nature with talents that enable them for this vocation without much exertion, while others have to acquire their pedagogical fitness by hard and persistent study. Under all circumstances he must have an ardent love for his profession and put his whole energy into his work to make it a success. He certainly is a good teacher who approaches his task with that self-confidence and mastery which only a wide-reaching knowledge and familiarity with the substance of his teachings can give, who also has that peculiar faculty of always being in harmony with his pupils, whether children or adults.

Results in gymnastics may just as well be gauged as in reading, writing, and arithmetic,—the conscientious teacher will never lose sight of this fact and determine from term to term whether there is a progress noticeable in his classes; he is not content with simply filling his hours by running his pupils through certain sets of exercises and drawing his salary at the first of each month.

If we were to teach a system of gymnastics according to a fixed and cut pattern which would apply to all pupils equally, independent of age or physical ability, it would not require much of a pedagogue to teach this subject. Any drill-master might be as good an instructor. A really good system of physical training must allow a teacher to put his individuality into his work, as well as to vary and adapt his material of teaching in a way most conducive to the health and welfare of his pupils. He must try to make his subject as interesting as possible, bring in variations wherever possible, build up new combinations with new methods of execution, and arrange his programs carefully with regard to the time allotted and to the age and ability of his pupils, so as not to tire them out.

Gymnastics well taught contains a vast amount of impulses for building up character, habits, and ethical factors, besides the development of strength, grace, and vigor. But it requires a pedagogically trained master to make his pupils profit thereby. Especially for the training of larger classes it is apparent that only a pedagogue will be able to teach successfully and secure good discipline.

III. HE SHOULD, TO A CERTAIN EXTENT, BE ACQUAINTED WITH THOSE BRANCHES OF MEDICAL SCIENCE THAT HAVE SOME DIRECT RELATION TO HIS PROFESSION.

Not very long ago the somewhat startling assertion was made by one of our colleagues (of course, not without arousing much opposition) that only a physician could be a perfect teacher of gymnastics. I can

(Concluded.)

II. HE MUST BE A PEDAGOGUE.

Digitized by

Google
-180-

not quite endorse this assertion, for the best physician may be a very poor teacher of gymnastics, if he be lacking in all those other qualifications necessary, outside of his professional knowledge. But it is my opinion that the greater the amount of medical knowledge an instructor of gymnastics possesses, the better for his pupils and the better for his own success, whether the accidental title of M. D. be affixed to his name or not. He undoubtedly should be acquainted with the laws and teachings of physiology, anatomy, hygiene, physical diagnosis, anthropometry, massage, orthopedic surgery, first aids in case of accident, and, probably, general pathology.

Such knowledge will enable him to judge for himself of the real value of certain sets of exercises, to discard such as may be injurious, and to better adapt his work to the individual needs and conditions of his pupils.

While it is true that educational gymnastics is intended for the healthy only, still, there are many children and adults sent to the gymnasium for training, who are not really sick but rather feeble or behind in development, for the express purpose of getting rid of certain weaknesses and of improving the functions of certain organs ; not to learn various feats of apparatus work, or to excell in public exhibitions.

Also, in regard to the physical work as practiced in our public schools, where only very little time is devoted to this important subject, and the greatest possible benefit should be obtained in the shortest space of time through well prepared and physiologically arranged exercises, it is necessary for the teacher that he be thoroughly acquainted with the medical branches mentioned before.

We have often been severely criticized by our opponents, sometimes not without cause, for not always following the laws of hygiene and physiology in the course of our practice, but this criticism should not be applied to our system of instruction so much as to poor methods of the teacher whose knowledge of those laws was rather deficient.

It is of utter necessity that these branches of medical science be taught in our seminaries and normal schools to the same extent as in medical colleges and that a teacher of gymnastics be as well acquainted with them as a physician is.

He who has a complete knowledge of the human body, its growth, its organs, its functions, and its peculiarities in the course of its development, will hardly ever overtax its powers, and will avoid such movements which might become detrimental. Even accidents, which now and then occur in our gymnasia, might often be avoided or decreased in number if we knew how to guard against them and how to discard such exercises which are wrong and unjustifiable from a physiological standpoint.

It is not to be expected of the teacher that he inform his pupils why they practice this or that set of exercises, or what effect they have upon heart, lungs, muscles, nerves, digestive, and circulatory functions, but I require that he himself know these effects upon the organs mentioned, and that he be ready at any time to explain their action and, by means of argument, convince his opponents of their possible utility and importance for a harmonious physical development.

Digitized by Google
-181-

While I lay stress upon the necessity that a good teacher possess a sufficient amount of knowledge of medical science, I do not wish to be understood that I want to have gymnastics looked at and judged from a mere medical point of view, but it should be a guide for us when we are apt to go to extremes.

Having thus stated, in a few general remarks, what qualities I deem necessary for a model teacher of gymnastics, I once more emphasize that these requirements, taken all in all, can probably be found only in an ideal teacher. But it should be our aim to approach this lofty ideal as nearly as possible ; for the more perfect we become individually, the more successful will we be in our career, and the more will we further our cause : the cause of an all-around harmonious development of mind and body !

HE man who has occasion to compare the conditions of life in the

United States at the present time with those which prevailed in the first half of the century can hardly fail to be impressed with the diminishing part played by human muscles in the struggle for a livelihood. The pioneers among whom Abraham Lincoln spent his boyhood found abundant schooling in physical vigor in the necessary routine of clearing the land for crops, building the log house and shaping its rude furniture, providing the winter store of food and fuel, and defending themselves against wild beasts and human foes. A spirit of self-reliance was the almost inevitable outcome of such an environment, and with it a train of hardy virtues flourished. In the towns and cities of the period life was not so arduous, but it was still comparatively simple and active.

As the country became more thickly settled, however, communication with the outside world was established, trade developed, and by it the individual was able to supply many of his needs, while the division of labor left him a narrower range of tasks to perform. The invention and wide introduction of machinery has lightened labor still more, and further reduced the market value of physical strength and skill.

The growth of the cities at the expense of the country has been another step prejudicial to bodily hardihood. The fiercer struggle for existence in the midst of a denser population, while it makes increased demands upon vitality, is waged under conditions far less favorable to health. Sunlight and fresh air cannot hold their own in the crowded, high-walled streets. Electric cars, elevators, telephones, and a host of other devices seem to leave no place for muscular exertion in the business world. Even recreation tends to become less truly recreative. Dancing, the card party, the theatre, attendance at the baseball game or the races, may serve to banish care for a time, but they do not send a man back to his work with physical vigor recruited. The summer vacation of two weeks, if spent at the average resort, is often enough only a change of artificial surroundings; and even where this is not the

BICYCLING, WISE AND OTHERWISE.

By FRED. E. LEONARD, M. D.

Digitized by

Google
-182-

case the attempt to make up in one brief outing for a year’s unwholesome living is about as satisfactory as gorging one’s self at a single meal after days of abstinence.

In a word, although progress in sanitary science has steadily lengthened the average of human life, there are forces in operation which seem to be undermining the sturdy vigor of earlier days, and causing the robust manly virtues to give place before the love of ease and pleasure and the spirit of self-indulgence. One of the most powerful agencies operating to counteract these enervating tendencies is the widespread interest in athletic sports ; and bicycling, which of all the forms of recreation now practiced has become the most universal, appears to possess many of the characteristics of an antidote. It is therefore worth while to attempt an analysis of its fitness, to get clearly before the mind the advantages it offers, and at the same time to remind ourselves of some misuses and abuses which may detract from its value.

THE USE AND MISUSE OF THE BICYCLE.

From a physiological point of view bicycling, practiced in moderation, favors the working of that complex machine, the body. Its direct effect on the muscles most concerned in pushing the pedals is a matter of common observation ; the large and powerful thighs of the professional cyclist are as familiar illustrations of the effect of use as is the blacksmith’s right arm. The work is performed by such large muscular masses—those of the calf, front, and sides of the thigh, and back of hip joint—that the effort put forth in riding over a level road is apparently very slight, and fatigue is late in appearing. But though the separate muscle fibers are required to exert only a small part of their power, yet the sum total of change in the muscular system suffices to produce important secondary effects, as will appear further on. Nor are the regions mentioned the only ones actively concerned, for bicycling, while it resembles walking, running, and skating in being primarily an exercise of the lower extremities, necessitates the use of many additional muscles ; those of the shoulders and arms in steering, and to help in supporting the weight under certain circumstances; those of the trunk in maintaining the balance under shifting conditions. The amount of nervous energy expended in bringing about this increased muscular activity is not excessive, and after one has learned to ride it is no great tax for the nerve centers to maintain the necessary co-ordination ; for gradually, with growing skill in the control of the wheel, the lower centers of the brain and those in the spinal cord learn their lesson and become able to manage the muscles with only an occasional hint from the higher centers of consciousness, which are therefore left free for other uses. Thus the muscular and nervous systems become the seat of heightened activity, but the increase is so distributed that there is little danger of exhaustion.

Every act of muscular contraction is a manifestation of energy, and this energy was set free when, at the moment of contraction, a part of the complex chemical compounds of which the muscle substance is composed breaks down into simpler compounds, one of them carbonic acid gas, the familiar gas of the soda-water fountain. These new compounds.



Digitized by L-ooQle
-183-

or such of them as are no longer of use to the muscles, enter the blood stream and are carried away to organs whose business it is to prepare waste materials for removal from the body. The presence in the blood of an increased charge of waste excites these excreting organs to greater activity. Thus, for example, prompt removal of the carbonic acid gas is secured by more perfect ventilation of the lungs, i. e., by more frequent and deeper movements of respiration. It is a common experience that a constriction of the chest and abdomen, which might not make itself felt if one were sitting down or walking slowly, becomes unendurable after a few minutes’ brisk ride.

EFFECT UPON THE HEART.

Muscular contraction has another important secondary effect. It is one of the forces helping to drive the blood back from the capillaries to the heart, and to keep up the circulation of the lymph which bathes the constituent cells of the body and lies in the smallest tissue gaps. Many a boy has amused himself by pinching tightly one end of some succulent plant stem and then pulling it through his closed fingers toward the the open end, out of which the juice is thus made to trickle drop by drop. In much the same way the veins and lymph vessels are emptied toward the heart when the muscles, over and among which they lie, swell and harden in contraction, any back flow of the fluid being prevented by pocket-like valves which project inward from the walls and allow escape in one direction only. The quickened return flow to the heart, further favored by the increased respiratory movements, w’hich act something like a suction pump placed in the chest, causes the heart beats to become more rapid. Bicycling is especially calculated to produce this effect on the circulation, since, as we have seen, it involves the use of very large muscular masses.

The stimulus extends to other functions. The breaking down of muscular substance creates a demand for fresh building material, as is shown by the sharpened appetite. The movement itself, so far as it affects the abdominal contents, favors the absorption of food already in the alimentary canal. The organs of excretion are busied with the new waste materials ; and the sweat glands of the skin, under the influence of the heat set free during the chemical changes in the muscles, separate from the blood and pour out upon the surface much larger quantities of water, the evaporation of which helps to reduce the temperature and maintain the equilibrium between heat production and heat loss.

DECIDED BENEFITS OF WHEELING.

It appears, then, that moderate bicycling, without exerting a very disturbing influence upon any one of the bodily functions, rouses nearly all of them to a higher pitch of performance, and by means of its effect on the circulation promotes the prompt removal of waste and the forwarding of new building material and fresh supplies of energy to every working organ. It furnishes, with great economy of time and strength, that bodily exercise so essential for the preservation of health, and nowadays so rarely obtained in sufficient amount or variety in the course of one’s daily tasks. And the use of the wheel is directing attention to other phases of personal hygiene. A return to more sensible

Digitized by L.ooQLe
-184-

forms of clothing is already noticeable. It is being made somewhat more for service and comfort, and less exclusively for looks. The negligee shirt and the sweater, knickerbockers and easy shoes, have furnished an object lesson in dress reform which will not soon be forgotten. Again, the one who rides much is often led to take a greater interest in the workings of his body as a machine, and so to pay greater attention to diet, the hygiene of the skin, and all the other factors that contribute to physical vigor. If it is true that health is at last becoming fashionable, the wheel must receive some of the credit for the changing sentiment.

Qf the recreative value of the bicycle much might be written. It gives opportunity for change of scene as well as change of action. Out on the wide boulevards and in the spacious parks of the city, or along less frequented highways and by-paths the wheelman may spin away from “the cares that infest the day,” conscious of a strange exhilaration from the very motion, and occupied with new sights and sounds. The daily walk is of nesessity so limited in its range that all novelty soon disappears, and as it ceases to divert the thoughts into new channels its value is greatly reduced ; for, viewed solely as an exercise, it has little to recommend it. The cyclist, however, gains access to a vastly wider area ; the possibilities of explorations are almost boundless, and view follows view so rapidly that the mind is spared the feeling of monotony ; or if he succeeds at last in exhausting the list of possible routes, he finds that the changing seasons have so altered the face of nature that he may repeat the round with interest as keen as ever. Unlike the pedestrian, too, when some attractive spot is to be visited, the cyclist reaches it with capacity for appreciation unimpaired by a sense of fatigue, and the thought of the homeward journey suggests pleasure instead of weariness.	(To	be	concluded.)

CORRESPONDENCE.

H. J. Koehler, West Point.—Your complaint that we did not mention your authorship of the article on swimming which appeared in our two last issues, is not justified, for in fact we had had no idea of your connection with it until the original pamphlet bearing your name as author was sent to us by you a few days ago. Your article on swimming has passed through a number of magazines, mostly in the form of extracts. We should certainly have preferred to print the article in question as your contribution, but it seems, we must not hope for much in that respect, inasmuch as our request a little while ago was not even answered.

Mr. C. Emery, Ottawa, Ont.—By looking over our volumes we find in vol. II, July ’95 on page 89—99, a lesson (by Mr. C. J. Kroh) on the Slant-Running Board (Storm-Board) which might be of use to you.

G. Seikel, Newark, N /.—Your statistical material is highly welcome. Very few teachers have measured and remeasured all their pupils or have, as you have done, charted the records of the different classes for years. It will be published in our next issue.

F. W. F., St. Louis.—What has become of the class chart you have promised?

Miss C. P.—We agree with you that the faulty way of sitting in school primarily started the spinal curvature of the girl. On closer examination you will find that the girl is not so robust as you think, but rather fat, which means nothing less than an additional burden to the bones, ligaments, and muscles that hold up the trunk. Call again.

Digitized by i^.ooQLe
Mind ftKD body. ^

Subscription Price, 91*00 per Year.

mi' Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

24Eil-**ra,-uJcee, *Wlscoaa.e!Laa.-

$9“ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

PRESCRIPTION OF EXERCISES.

ANTHROPOMETRY and physical diagnosis are the means by which we are supposed to be enabled to tell whether and where a person is normal or not. We think that a sufficient number of tests and measurements have been made for determining which is the figure that comes nearest to the actual normal, the average, or the mean. While a person's stature might be normal in his or her own proportions, yet he or she might be far from being a representative of a normal man or woman, if by “normal”.is designated the average or the mean type.

What should be striven for in the first place is: Normality in the own individual proportions and organs.

Presupposing that active exercise, mainly through the change in nutrition which it brings about, or by its power of causing absorption of fatty deposits, is able to change weight, dimensions, and functions, of what more can it be suggestive than of an attempt to use bodily exercise as a true remedial agent, to be administered in a certain dose and form for the cure of deficiencies or the removal of over-loads.

Thus, if the upper part of the body is weak in comparison with the lower, all we shall have to do, is to bring it to the condition of the lower; or if the left side is smaller than the right, to prescribe a certain set of movements for that side, which must cause an equal development; or if special organs are at fault, to deal with them in the same manner.

Truly, the physical millennium is at hand or close upon us. Theoretically this must be so; but the practical utilization of this theory is not so easy as it appears to be. To carry it out would mean individualization in our instruction to the full meaning of the word. While individualizing is justly the general tendency in education at present, it is more than questionable whether it be possible to practice it to the extent here required.

In the first place we lack the competent individualizer. Only a physician can reasonably be expected to form correct judgments as to normal health and actual conditions in abnormally developed persons. At present it is impossible to secure the services of medical experts for prescribing special gymnastics to all pupils in gymnasia and schools. If the somewhat Bellamistic idea, that in future physicians will be employed and paid by the governments, should realize, and if the medical colleges keep on increasing at the present gait, then such a thing might become feasible at an early time.

Without any doubt, most instructors and teachers of physical training do not possess the necessary medical knowledge and training, nor do

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-186-

they have the time for taking up such work. The gymnasium hour (which very rarely is a daily one for the pupils) allows the instructor hardly time enough to employ the pupils so as, according to his judgment, they should be even for minimum requirements. Public school gymnastics still more are permitted according to homeopathic dosage. Children and students can be got only in exceptional cases at other hours.

Consequently the time necessary for thorough examinations, however interesting the results would be, would occupy an undue portion of the instructor’s time, and, with the object in view, entail individual work for each examined pupil.

So long as large classes and schools are to receive instruction from single teachers whose time is necessarily much limited, we side with them that exert themselves to get the highest standard of class-work out of their classes and refuse to waste precious time, at the expense of their pupils’ health, on problems which they are not able to solve.

We do not hold an entirely radical view on the subject. Theoretically we believe in prescription of exercises and individualization, and admit that it can be applied to some single institutions. Enough individualizing should be done, however, on the part of every instructor and teacher that he may at least be able to notice defects in development or functions, and subsequently “prescribe” accordingly.

CATCH-AS-CATCH-CAN WRESTLING.

By F. W. FROEHLICH, Teacher of Gymnastics of the North St. Louis Turnverein and of the Public Schools

of St. Louis.

CLASS-WRESTLING.

(Concluded.)

FLOOR HOLDS.

34.	Hammerlock and Half-Nelson on Far Side: Grasp opponent’s left wrist with left hand and butt with head against his left arm, quickly drawing the arm up on his back and bending it or pushing it up his back; take a half-Nelson on far side and turn him towards you.

Break: Rise on right foot first and run around, or take a wing-lock.

35.	Back-Hammerlock or Body-Nelson and Leg-Hold, Right Side

and Forward:	Slip	right	arm under opponent’s from front and push

up his back; twist him towards your left and hook right leg around his right arm from front, clinching the arm with both legs.

Break:	If	opponent	does not get leg-hold, twist around and on top

of him. Should he get it, then place head on body and bridge high.

36.	Near Hammerlock and Crotch-Hold.

Break:	Leg	in.

37.	Run-Around Back-Hammerlock: Get the hold as in 34 and immediately rise, jumping over opponent on the opposite side, and take a half-Nelson.

Break: Rise and run around in the same direction.

38.	%-Nelson on the Leg or Tie-Hold:	Place	right	hand	on

opponent’s right leg from rear; pass left arm through between opponent’s legs from front; place left hand on your right wrist; raise and turn him towards yourself, and, if possible, change to a half-Nelson.

Digitized by G.ooQle
-187-

Break: Grasp opponent’s ankle quickly.

AT THE LEFT SIDE.

39.	Half-Nelson on Far Side and Scissors on Arm:	Take a half-

Nelson on far side; throw right leg around right arm from front and lock legs tightly; turn him towards }rourself; hold his left arm with both hands, trying to bend it to a hammerlock.

Break: Try to sit up with swinging legs up and down, being careful to have head well back in case of a quick turn by opponent; or pull left arm out with a leg-swing sideward; or grasp his left arm and right leg and do a head-spring on top of him.

AT THE RIGHT SIDE.

40.	Half-Nelson with Right Leg on Far Side: Throw right leg over opponent’s and under his right arm, and foot on neck, turn him towards yourself.

Break: Stand, or take a wing-lock on leg.

41.	Double-Nelson with Legs : Begin as in 44 and lock it with a half-Nelson on near side.

Break:	Pull	off,	or	push	forward.

42.	Head in Chancery: Change to a run-around back-hammerlock. Opponent seizes head with right arm around neck; then grasp his right wrist with right hand, jump over him, and proceed as in 41.

43.	Head in Chancery and Lock with Left Hand and Roll Over Sideward.

Break:	Push	off	with	right	hand,	or	bridge.

44.	Head-Hold with Both Hands and Flying Move: If opponent holds head low and well forward, grasp it with both hands and throw him over.

Break : Head-spring, or spin.

45.	Far Arm-Hold and assist with the other, roll him.

46.	Leg-Hammerlock on Near Side (right): Throw right leg under his right arm from rear, hook it with foot and bring it up backward.

47.	Far Half-Nelson or Hammerlock and Knee on Neck : Take a half-Nelson or hammerlock on far side and throw right knee upon his head with full force.

Break :	Duck	head	and	get	on	top.

48.	Body-Nelson on Near Side and Far Arm-Hold in Front : Take a body-Nelson left on near side, grasp his left hand or wrist with right hand, and turn him over.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—In this issue the reader will find a photographic reproduction of the mass-exercises at the Swiss Gymnastic Festival at Schaffhausen. The contests of the Swiss turners are governed by a similar code of rules and like arrangements as those of the North American Turnerbund. 220 societies took part in the society contest, about 400 members strove for the individual prizes in apparatus work, and 600 in field sports. The whole tournament was a tremendous success. Foreign turners and athletes from Germany, France, Italy, and Pittsburg, U. S., also took part in the contest.

gitized by Goog
-188-

—The U. S. Commissioner of Education is gathering material for another report on physical training. This branch of education is especially reported upon about every five years. We hope he will receive all the assistance possible for his laudable purpose.

—The Burnham Gymnasium of Milwaukee has opened its doors for the second season, but this time in new quarters. We heartily congratulate the promoters upon selecting such excellent localities which will certainly contribute not a little in making the enterprise a success.

—The Milwaukee School Board on account of stringency of funds has done away with the supervisors of physical education, singing, and drawing. The class teachers are now expected to continue the work in physical education without the supervisors and to pass an examination in this branch some time next spring. In order to assist the teachers and to have the instruction in gymnastics carried on as well as possible, the local committee of the Turners have offered the teachers a free course of instruction.

Physical Culture a Feature of the Educational Exhibit of the Trans-Mississippi Fair.

WE are pleased to note that the Board of Lady Managers, who have charge of the Bureau of the Trans-Mississippi Exposition, will devote some attention to physical culture. It is to be hoped that this important branch of modern education will be given the prominence it deserves, and to which it is entitled by virtue of its adoption into the curriculum of all the best schools in the world. The desirability of such an exhibit cannot be questioned, and the only point of issue would be the manner in which it should be made. We would suggest that a fully-equipped gymnasium be opened in the same building over which the Board of Lady Managers has full control,—say the Boys’ and Girls’ Building, in which daily exhibitions in calisthenics and gymnastics may be given, somewhat on the plan followed at the World’s Fair, where such a gymnasium was located in the Children’s Building. The work could be done by the different instructors of physical culture here in our city, each one to have charge certain days, and should consist largely of class work. It would not be a difficult matter to form classes amongst the public school children and the pupils of the several instructors for these exhibitions.

We are convinced that the numerous societies interested in the promotion of physical culture, such as the German, Bohemian, and Danish turner societies, the Y. M. C. A., and others, would enter into this work willingly, and would heartily co-operate with the Board of Lady Managers in making this feature of the exposition a success. The plan above outlined presents many advantages. The only expense to the Board would be in fitting up a suitable room for the purpose. The interest in the matter would be constantly stimulated by the fact that various “methods” and “systems” would be employed by the different instructors, which would naturally bring about a spirited contest, and this would result in the very best work being done by all of them.



Digitized by

Google
-189-

We trust that these suggestions may be favorably received by the Board, and if the project is carried out along the lines above mentioned, this part of the educational exhibit will undoubtedly prove of interest to, and be well patronized by the public. The good which would result from thus emphasizing the necessity of scientific physical culture in our educational system is inestimable, and should be considered ample compensation for the small expense connected with such an exhibit.— “Gut Heiir

QUESTIONS DISCUSSED AT THE FACULTY MEETINGS OF THE CHICAGO NORMAL SCHOOL, APRIL 97.

Each critic teacher was requested to state, briefly, the needs of his or her class in the direction of child study.

KINDERGARTEN.

A. E. ALLEN.

Can some.plan be recommended by which the experience of parents, physicians, and others who are scientifically qualified, may be brought to bear upon the answering of the following questions?*

1.	How are the various nervous diseases of children to be determined ? How dealt with ?

2.	What are satisfactory tests for defective eyes, ears, speech, spina! trouble, etc.?

3.	What is the best food for children under their several conditions ?

4.	How are the signs of fatigue best determined ?

FIRST GRADE‘A.’

FLORA I. COOKE.

In the First Grade ‘A’ there are 49 children. Of these 28 have physical defects, as follows: Ear, 9 (6 girls, 3 boys); eye, 4 (4 boys); speech organs, 10 (6 girls, 4 boys); nervous trouble, 5 (1 girl, 4 boys); mentally deficient, 2 (1 girl, 1 boy); cripple, 1 boy.

Suggestions are needed concerning special work and treatment for these children.

1. For the deaf children.—Sets of exercises in articulation—lip reading, phonic -drills, etc., especially adapted to the individual needs of each deaf child. (To be prepared by experts for the daily practice of the children.)

2.	For the care of the eyes.—The school-room examined as to the best conditions of light, color, position, etc., for all the children. Special advice with reference to those whose eyes are now defective.

3.	Nervous or weak children.—These children have now special hours for physical exercise under Mr. Kroh’s direction.

What part of the regular work accelerates nervous disorders ? For instance, is there any danger of a nervous child constantly over-fatiguing himself in manual work, or is mental excitement alone to be avoided ?

FIRST GRADE ‘B.’

GUDRUN THORNE-THOMSEN.

Assistance in a thorough examination of all the children is desired, not only by one interview, but while they are at work, on the play-grounds, etc., and, when a case has been diagnosticated, practical suggestions as to the proper treatment should be given.

* We omitted all questions which have no direct relation to physical training.—Ed.

Digitized by Tooele
-190-SECOND GRADE.

CLARA J. MITCHELL.

1.	What apparatus can be obtained for registering the amount of impurity in the air ?

2.	What is the best known school seat and desk ? What is the best method for taking measurements of children and seating them ?

3.	How may expert examinations be made which will give the teacher definite knowledge of defects in the children and means necessary for correcting these?

4.	What degree of motor precision ought to be demanded of a child # of this age ?

FOURTH GRADE.

FLORENCE M. MILLS.

1.	What sort of observation and reasoning may be expected at the fourth grade stage of development ?

2.	For how long a period can mental work of any given character be required from the average fourth grade child, without overtaxing his strength?

3.	What exercises constitute the most complete relaxation? Ought not a child to sit and stand properly without urging, if the physical condition is normal ?

FIFTH GRADE.

MARGARET A MC’lNTYRE.

I.	A diagnosis of each child’s case, giving heredity, modifying influences, suggestions on exercise, hand-work, sleep, food, and character of school work.

II.	Or, as a substitute for a thorough examination, help with the following diseases :

1.	Ears, eyes, throat.

2.	Nervousness.

a)	Melancholy, over-anxiety.

b)	Restlessness, over-alertness. Cause, treatment.

3.	Vitiation.—Symptoms, treatment, prevention. Recommendation of literature on the subject suitable for children of 10 and 12.

4.	Lack of poise.—A forward poise, head preceding body ; accompanied by a nervous anxiety to reach destination.

5.	Lassitude.—How to judge between laziness, which, if indulged in, would mean demoralization ; and the listlessness, carelessness, weakness, and general disgust which sometimes accompany rapid physical growth, and which, if not recognized, may affect development.

SIXTH GRADE.

H. T. BAKER.

1.	A scientific examination of each pupil in the grade is necessary to discover defects in sight, hearing, voice, etc. Suggestions as to the proper treatment for each pupil and the character of school work best adapted to his needs.

2.	The manual training work used in the grade does not appeal strongly to a small minority of the pupils. Investigations to determine whether another form of handwork is preferable or the present is wrongly used.

SEVENTH GRADE.

MELVA LATHAM.

At the stage of physical development in which most children in the seventh grade are, what work should be given them ?

1.	a) Ought not the work to be of such a character that there is frequent

change in the direction of energy ? b) The days when we have a variety of work for the hands seem to be the days when the head is clearest and good spirits most evident. Is this true ?

2.	How much does this physical change affect the disposition of the child ? Ought a petulant child, grown so within a few months and periodically so, to be kept at anything but light manual exercise at these time^?



Digitized by Google
—191—

a)	What should be done to help the one who seems to collapse when doing anything but manual or physical work ?

b)	What should be done to help the one who has little energy to do physical work, but loves to sit still and read continually? (Has grown three inches this year.)

EIGHTH GRADE.

KATHARINE M. STILWELL.

1.	An expert physical examination of each pupil in the room should be made. This must include eyes, ears, throat trouble, nervousness, and the difficulties which prevent certain pupils from taking gymnastic exercises. In connection with this, suggestions should be made as to treatment.

2.	A series of experiments on the children’s emotions ought to be made. The question of religion is of importance to the pupils of this grade. Many of them enjoy most those books that contain platitutes of religion.

Many of them find at times a pleasure in morbidness, while the habit of introspection is quite common among the girls. There is also shown an instinct to please the opposite sex. This is evinced in dress, manners, etc.

When controlled by these emotions, the child loses all interest in study. The inhibition of these feelings does not result in the child’s development. Since this is a natural state of mind, how can it be used for the good ot the pupils ?

How can these emotions find vent in a legitimate channel ? In what way can they be made to converge to the line of educative work ?

THE PHYSICAL TRAINING OF YOUNG CHILDREN.

/jffcN Monday, March 29th, Mrs. Harvey read a paper on the above subject. 'Ey The lecturer defined physical training as (1) “The systematic training of the physical powers to produce and to preserve health,” and (2) “A system of educational gymnastics, which teaches the pupil to make his body subservient to his will and she emphasised the necessity for more attention to be paid to this branch of education in our schools and colleges. As a rule, every possible exertion was expected of the mind, but the body was left to take care of itself. Enervation and its pernicious consequences was one of the greatest evils of our time, and was to be counteracted chiefly by a careful physical training. It had been demonstrated, moreover, that a systematic course of physical training developed not only the body, but the will, and it was, therefore of great educational value. Above all, in a country like England, where lung diseases are so common, it was impossible to speak too strongly of the importance of obtaining a full development of the chest, which could only be achieved by an abuudance of physical exercise. Speaking of health in the schoolroom, the lecturer urged the necessity of having suitable seats and desks, and condemned the sloping style of writing as tending to induce spinal complaints. She also spoke strongly on the question of ventilation, and suggested that all games, when possible, should be played in the open air; games, being essentially recreative, constituted a method of exercise most appropriate to early youth, and it had been proved that, methodically applied, they were able to give excellent hygenic results. The senses became quickened, the qualities of rapid decision and presence of mind were developed, and the character of the child revealed itself more plainly during play than at any other time. But while children were encouraged to play, the teacher must not lose sight of the fact that games could never take the place or be substituted for a rational system of physical training. Both were absolutely necessary, and one is just as important as the other. In speaking of systems of training, the lecturer said that there were only two, the Swedish and German, all others being only very small collections of exercises taken from these. The object of the former was to improve the condition of the individual in a phvsical, mental, and moral sense. She considered, however, that the Swedish system, pure and simple, was not altogether suited to the English climate and temperament; in fact, many people had tried it in England, and had found themselves obliged to modify it considerably. As a matter of fact, the lecturer did not consider that either

Digitized by taOOQle
-192-

system was suitable for English people until they had been modified to meet the national peculiarities. Though many half-trained and inexperienced teachers of the Swedish system refused to admit the possibility of introducing modifications, its most famous demonstrators were less prejudiced. For instance, the use of wands, light dumb-bells, &c., was generally condemned by Swedish teachers as useless and possibly injurious ; while those who might justly be termed the leaders of the Swedish system say emphatically that they do not disapprove of light apparatus, their method merely prepares the way for it. Again, many Swedish teachers disapprove of music as an accompaniment to physical exercises; the lecturer, however, considered that the arguments in favour of music were much stronger than those against. She had never found that the exhilaration* caused by music in gymnastics interfered with the muscular or nervous training of children. Exersices with wands, dumb-bells, etc., would in nine cases out of ten be more effectually and enjoyably done with music than without. An eminent doctor in America said on this subject: “It is often a great gain to have less of the personality of the teacher, which is liable to little upsets which affect all human nature, and more of the soothing effects of the music, which tend to keep alive harmony and good feeling between teacher and pupils.” In speaking of the German system of physical training, the lecturer considered that its methods were excellent and stated her conviction that when an English system of physical training should be formed, it would be founded chiefly on what was best in both systems.—The Gymnast and Athletic Review.

ROUNDELAYS.

(FOR GIRLS.)

Translated and Adapted from the German “Singspiele” by F. L. JAHN.

The Sand-man has come! The Sand-man has come! He has real beau - ti - ful white

Sand, he is well-known through-out the land. The Sand-man has come !

The girls form two files about two paces apart, facing inward. Those opposite each other are partners. Beginning with the song, the first pair at the head of the column link hands and hop with galop-steps sideward down between the files; there they separate and enter at the foot of the file. The second pair follows next and so on, until all have in turn danced down the aisle. The order is now reversed until the former alignment is regained. The usefulness of this game is confined to the younger children, by whom it is well liked.

\

Digitized by U.ooQle

-194-

BOOK REVIEW.

—Gems of School Song. Suitable for Children of All Ages. Selected and Edited by Prof. Carl Betz, Supervisor of Music, Public Schools, Kansas City, Mo —Our esteemed colleague, the author, has long enjoyed an enviable distinction as master of the subject-matter of gymnastics and methods of physical training. He is perhaps not as deservedly known as an exponent of and contributor to the prt of music and. singing. With this latest publication he has merited the gratitude of all true lovers of child-life. The delightful charm of the melodies of German school and folk song by Mozart, Abt, Weber, Kreutzer, Beethoven, Mendelssohn, Cherubini, Schumann, Kuecken, etc., is a perennial source of inspiring influence in favor of the growing moral qualities of the child. Mr. Betz happily demonstrates his versatile accomplishments in the English translation of the beautiful gems he has collected in such convenient form. The work is admirably arranged according to topics, comprising four chapters, viz.: The Day's Course— Morning, Evening, and Night; Lullabies. The Seasons—Spring, Summer, Autumn, and Winter. Nature—Forests and Streams, Flowers, Birds, and other creatures. Home and Life—The Hunter, The Soldier, Pleasure. The songs are arranged in two parts and are also intended as one-part songs, easily and eagerly acquired and most acceptable to the student-teacher appreciating the great value of expressive song and happy melody. One of the leading supervisors of music in Chicago, Miss MarcellaReilley, writes us: “It gives me pleasure to endorse your book, entitled ‘Gems of School Song.' Many of the songs are new to American schools and on account of the diversity of topics will be very valuable to teachers and pupils alike, enabling them to illustrate any subject of the curriculum with song expression. The words and melodies closely and faithfully express each other and, in a word,* the book will be of value to teachers of all primary and grammar grades.”—Published by the American Book Company, New York, Cincinnati, and Chicago.

-Twenty-first Year Book of the New York State Reformatory, at Elmyra for the year 1896.—This institution has done pioneer-work in as much as it was the first to introduce a regular system of gymnastics for the prisoners. It was a step condign of the end of the 19th century. Looking over the last year’s report we note a continued improvement. The extension of the work and the practical results are in fair proportion. How could it be otherwise ? Science is pointing in that direction. It attempts to lessen the number of criminals through forming normal bodies, never through the agency of flower contributions and sympathy demonstrations. There is so much of interest in our line in this report that we wish to reprint it all, were not want of space in the way. We shall in some future issue reproduce some of the excellent illustrations given in the book. It also contains 19 anthropometric tables. Dr. Hamilton D. Wey, the physician of the institution, and Mr. J. L. Berthold, the director of the gymnasium, deserve general approbation for their work, and we heartily tender them our compliments.

—German American Gymnastics, by C. J. Kroh, Chicago Normal School.— This pamphlet justly deserves of the widest circulation. No other short treatise on German Gymnastics in the English language is as concise, clear, and instructive, as is this volume.

Copies can be had free of charge on application to Mr. Wm. Stecher, 3rd and Chestnut Sts , St. Louis, Mo.

—Report of Commissioner of Education for 1895-96. Vol. I. Washington, 1897.—Another report is out and, if anything, still more exhaustive and brimfull of information and interest than those of former years. This first volume consists ol an introduction and 19 chapters, of which the first treating of school-laws and systems is extremely valuable. The same praise may be given those dealing with the subject of school-libraries and foreign school-systems.

—A Safe Football Team. That master of the gridiron, Walter Camp, discusses the football outlook in “Outing” for October. While criticising the leading teams he speaks as follows: “A safe team must be one whose defense against the opponent’s running game is not exhausting, is not erratic. It need

Digitized by tjOOQle
-195-

no t necessarily be a defense that always stops the opponents short. Yale’s defense was not only erratic but exhausting. The longer Yale played the weaker became her defense and the greater Princeton’s gains. The point to be made here is that the remarkable team-play that placed Princeton well above all others in last season’s work was of the broadest kind £ftid though most evident in one play not confined to the attack or to one kind of attack. It is safe to say that Princeton could have replaced any one man on her team with another, and it would not have altered the result. In fact, with the privilege of keeping one man of a pair throughout, that is, keeping one tackle and one guard, any three men might have been replaced and the result have been the same. To say that Princeton had no remarkable individual players is hardly fair to some of the men composing that team, and yet so even was the play that certainly the team could truly be said to possess no ‘star’ players.”

—Gymnastic Tactics. By Dr. E. H. Arnold, Director of the Normal School of Gymnastics, New Haven, Conn.—The author’s exposition of method in tactics, considered as a branch of gymnastics, will prove a valuable aid to all teachers, regular and special, conducting class and mass work, who appreciate the value of economy in time, space, and movement. The purpose of gymnastic tactics as contrasted with military tactics are set forth in the preface, which contains a number of valuable hints with reference to procedures.

Part first, jnst published, entitled “Individual Tactics,” augurs well for a more extended study of the subject, in that it is treated in the thorough-going manner characteristic of the author’s work. The fundamental importance of sequences logically construed to insure economy in teaching is emphasized in a manner at once interesting and assuring. The distinction between volitional and reflex movements (movements on and from place, as in marching) with reference to rhythm, momentum, inhibition, etc., as stated, determines the order of work outlined, is serviceable in that its observation is conducive to increased control on part of the pupils, as, for instance, in the repetition of the movements as suggested in the last chapter and later, in mass work, when uniformity and accuracy of execution largely enter.

The synopsis includes Marching on and from Place—Study of Modes and Direction ; Halting; Changes of Modes of Movement from and on Place, etc. Facings—Standing and Marching on and from Place ; Study of Modes and Direction. Repetitions—Running.

The booklet of 28 pages (prepared for the press by Miss Frances N. Boynton, Instructor of Gymnastics at the Ogoutz School, Pa.) is an initial study o* the subject, and can be recommended as a handbook ot merit. Published by the Freidenker Publishing Co , Milwaukee.

ATHLETICS.

THE popular idea of a sprinter is a tall athlete, rather slim than stout, and with legs outstripping the remainder of his body in muscular development. Wefers is pretty near the ideal, and almost any person seeing him at practice with all his competitors at a meeting, and not knowing the name or reputation of any of them, would pick him out as the fastest of the party. Such judgment is right in this case, but would be wrong at other times, as is well shown by the records of previous meetings. Of those athletes who have during the twenty-five years won American sprinting championships, or established new bests-on-record, the following statistics are interesting, the men being arranged in accordance with their height. It will be seen that long and short, thick and thin, have shared equally in the honors. The list is as follows :

H. S. Brooks, 6 feet 2% inches in height and weighed 170 lbs.

H. Jewett, 6 feet 1 inch and 163 lbs.

H. E. Buermeyer, 6 feet and 200 lbs.

B.	J. Wefers, 5 feet ii )£ inches and 160 lbs.

W Baker, 5 feet 11^ inches and 140 lbs.

C.	H. Sherrill, 5 feet nj4 inches and no lbs.

C. W. Stage, 5 feet 11 inches and 147 lbs.

R. L. LaMontagne, 5 feet 11 inches and 140 lbs. W. Baker, 5 feet 11 inches and 130 lbs.

L. H. Cary, 5 feet S]4 inches and 142 lbs.

J. Owen, Jr., 5 feet inches and 129 lbs.

L. E. Myers, 5 feet 7^ inches and 114 lbs.

A. Waldron, 5 feet 7 inches and 118 lbs.

F. Westing, 5 feet 6 inches and 128 lbs.

E. B. Bloss, 5 feet 4^ inches and 127 lbs.

Each man of this list, in his day, either won a sprinting champion-

Digitized by C.ooQle
-190-

ship or held a record, and their wide divergence in height and weight is note worth y.—“Outing ”

HE long-looked for contests between these two celebrated athletes

took place during the past month. Ever since Kilpatrick’s memorable performance in the half-mile for America against England, at New York in 1895, public opinion has been divided as to the merits of the American compared with Bredin, the Englishman. No one doubts that they are the two best middle distance runners of the present day, and it would have been a great misfortune if a meeting between them could not have been arranged ; consequently eve^body was delighted when they heard of Kilpatrick’s proposed visit to England to run a series of three races with the English champion. Bredin had meanwhile voluntarily deserted amateurism and thrown in his lot with the professionals, and this also Kilpatrick arranged to do before the races took place. The previous best performances of Bredin were accomplished as an amateur, viz., 48% secs, for the quarter-mile ; 1 min. 11% secs, for 600 yards ; and 1 min. 55% secs, for the half-mile; whilst Kilpatrick’s time for the half-mile was the world’s record of 1 min. 53% secs.

The first race of the series took place at Rochdale on July 31, over a 600 yards course, and although the shorter distance was all in the Englishman’s favor, Kilpatrick had the odds in the betting. The race was a very severe one, and after Kilpatrick had led nearly all the way, Bredin rushed to the front and won, after a desparate struggle, by a yard and a half, the time being 1 min. 13 secs.

The second and most important contest, over half-a-mile, took place on August 9, at Stamford Bridge, the scene of many of Bredin’s previous triumphs. The attendance was small and select, a large number of well-known men of former years again visiting the track, this time as spectators. Betting ranged from 5 to 4 to 13 to 8 on Kilpatrick, and finally settled at 6 to 4. The pistol was fired to a very good start, Bredin allowing Kilpatrick to make the running, and he gradually drew away, the distance between them after going 120 yards being about a couple of yards, and at the quarter-mile mark Kilpatrick led by about 6 yards, the time then being 57% secs. On entering the latter half of the journey, Bredin seemed to be laboring a little, and with Kilpatrick still showing perfect style, the supporters of the American were jubilant, but Bredin kept his distance, and when three-quarters of the race had been run, he made his effort, and in a few strides closed with his opponent. They ran level until 50 yards from home, when Bredin gradually drew away, despite the gamest of efforts on the part of Kilpatrick, and won by about four yards in 1 min. 55% secs. The winner was, of course, loudly cheered, and the loser also received a lot of applause.

Subsequent to this race the third contest over 1000 yards was mutually abandoned, and Kilpatrick admitted the superiority of his opponent. The former returns to America to continue his university career.—The “Gymnast” and Athletic Review.

E. C. BREDIty vs. C. H. KILPATRICK.

Digitized by

Google