MIND AND BODY

Vol. 32	JUNE, 1925	No.	*10

PVBL1IHE* BY Ml HD AMD BODY PUBLISHING CO, MBW ULM, Ml MM.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAT, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Emend ms sooond-elMss mutter Ottober 14, /p/d, Mi the postoffiee Mi New Uim% klinnssotMy under the Aet of Mnrck j, i8jg.

♦---------------------------------+

Qriginal articles and reprint^

♦---------------------------------o

WHAT NEXT IS EXPECTED OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION?

Report by Tbeo. A. Gross, Chicago.

In an effort to ascertain what laymen believe to be the purpose of physical education as promoted in the public schools of the country, the Physical Educator’s Club of Chicago has made a practice of inviting as guests to their meetings, principals of schools, school superintendents, supervisors, and other people who are interested in physical education.

At the recent meeting of the Club held at the conclusion of the conference of the Middle-West Physical Education Society, many of the out of town delegates stayed over to hear the lectures and discussions of physical education problems.

The speakers of the day as guests of the Club were Mr. H. B. Loomis, principal of the Hyde Park High School, and Mr. W. F. Slocum of Carl Schurz High School. Mr. Loomis in his address calldd the attention of the physical teachers to the lack of proper enunciation and correct articulation of the average high school boy and girl, and asked if something could be done in their

Digitized by

Google
578

scheme of work to help correct this deficiency. Correct enunciation and clear articulation is so important in social and business life, said Mr. Loomis, that Telephone Companies and many Department Stores are giving special instructions in correct speech to their employees, so that patrons can clearly understand them, thus saving much annoyance and loss of time, and greatly improving the service.

Correct breathing is essential to proper enunciation, and I believe the physical teachers can help considerably by giving some attention to this important part of the training of nigh school boys and girls, said Mr. Loomis. I believe the average school boy and girl gets sufficient exercise of the arms and legs, but not enough trunk exercises and I wish to emphasize the importance of trunk exercises to good posture and proper breathing. I know that physical teachers, as a rule, have many things to take into consideration in conducting their scheme of physical development, but I hope you can introduce some exercises that will help to overcome defect of speech: that is so prevalent among school boys and girls.

Mr. W. F. Slocum said, "from birth to death, life is a constant struggle against gravitation, and to succeed requires a constant application of will power. To develop will power is an important part of the physical education scheme of the schools. The suckling baby has to work against gravity to secure its food from the mother’s breast; it is gravity that holds together the universe, keeps the earth in place, and holds us unto the earth. In our daily life we are constantly called upon to overcome gravity, which requires will power. There are many opportunities in physical education to develop and strengthen this important requisite, and I am strongly in favor of any scheme of atnletics that tends to train and develop will power, said Mr. Slocum.

Mr. E. C. Delaporte, the new Supervisor of Physical Education of the Chicago Public Schools, a member of the Club, stated that the whole scheme of physical education in schools was being studied with a view of securing the best possible results, and that there was a marked tendency on the part of those in charge of the physical education program to increase the length of the periods, rather than the number of periods. Very little effective result can be obtained by periods of one-half hour duration, even though there be a period each school day for each pupil, said Mr. Delaporte.

More effective results can be obtained by one, or two periods per week of one horn-, or one and one-half hours duration. This would give sufficient time for getting into proper attire and

fiving the pupil a good work-out each period. I am glad to be ere and see the good work that the Club is doing. Your discussions and deliberations contribute much to the cause of physical education, and you can be assured that I will give careful consideration to any suggestions or projects the Club may offer that will be helpful to the physical education department of the Chicago schools,

Digitized by f^ooQle
579

r*

Dr. D. W. Zoethout, lecturing on the subject of fatigue, in explaining the effect of fatigue on muscle fibres, stated that previous work increased the working power of a muscle up to a cer-J tain degree, a significant fact which must be taken into consideration by the teacher of physical education in conducting suitable limbering-up exercises. Fatigue, which sets in after a longer period of work, is caused by poisons produced during prolonged mus-vcular contractions. This curious phenomena cannot, as yet, be satisfactorily explained by the medical profession. One theory is that the myo-neural junction suffers the greatest from the effects of fatigue piosons. The myo-neural junction is similar to an electric fuse, which nature has provided to take care of the strain on the muscle, this particular part breaking down before serious injury to the muscle is caused, and is a part of the human machinery which can be most easily repaired. Dr. Zoethout pointed out that real fatigue does not occur in the muscle itself, but :s registered in the central nervous system which is in the brain and spinal cord.

Another interesting fact in the process toward total fatigue, or the inability of a muscle to react to stimulus, is the fact that the last forced efforts before the final stage of fatigue is reached are the most detrimental, because a muscle which has not been forced to a point of total inability to react to stimulus recuperates much quicker than one that has. This danger from overstrain must also be taken into consideration by the physical teacher.

Another important phenomena to be considered by the teacher is the rate of contractions. Longer intermissions, or periods of rest, greatly increase the working power of a muscle, delay fatigue, and expedite recuperation. Time, or space does not permit the writer to do justice to Dr. Zoethout’s lecture, which was intensely interesting and educational.

The program concluded with an exhibition of advanced calisthenics, a pretty drill combining postures and dancing steps, by a group of young ladies from the Chicago school, directed by Mr. Richard Molcar, and a demonstration of advanced swimming and life saving methods, by Mr. A. A. Pritzlaff with a class from Senn High School.

EARLY CONDITIONINGS OF PERSONALITY IN THE PRESCHOOL CHILD.*

Jessie Taft, Ph. D.; Director of Child Study Department, Children’s Aid Society of Pennsylvania, and Girl’s Aid of Philadelphia.

Ten years, or even five years ago, there was no such person as the pre-school child. Ten years ago we were just beginning to discover ordinary children and their importance for social life and progress. It had taken all the ages to realize the apparently obvious fact that children do become men and women and that

*Read at Schoolmen's Week, University of Pa., Phil., April 1,1925:

Digitized by

Google
680

the kind of children who are bom and the way they are brought up make a vital difference to society.

Even when we began to see that childhood is the time for building up physical health and preventing disease, that the problem of juvenile delinquency underlies penal reform and criminology, that mental hygiene, if it is to be a reality, must be reckoned with in the plastic years, even when we began to establish child welfare centers, child health agencies and child placing societies, we were thinking primarily of children who had reached school age. Within the last five years we have been pushed back and back by the insoluble factors in our social problems to infancv itself.

Medicine is telling us that the crucial period for health and mortality is the first two or three years of life. Psychology is sending us to the maternity ward and the nursery to observe the beginnings of that complex process we call human behavior. Psychiatry is pointing to the first five years as determinants of mental health and is establishing habit clinic for very young children.

Such programs as this and the rapid growth of the nursery school mark education's recognition of the general trend of interest.

In social work, my own ten years of experience have seen a revolution. Ten years ago mental hygiene and psychiatric social work were just beginning with adults. Family case work dealt with parents as individuals and with the children as a group. You can read through the older records of the family agencies without finding any recognition of children as persons. They are apt to be differentiated only byname, age and sex, except for some special problem of health, education or delinquency.

. In the field of child placing, although we have to deal with individual children whom we take from a broken home to place in a foster family,.we are only just learning to recognize the obligation to individualize every child. Well do I remember when we used to comfort ourselves with the thought that a baby needed only good physical care, that unwholesome surroundings had less effect on a younger child. It was only two years ago that the child placing agency with which I am associated determined to make a study of each infant before placing for adoption. Any good healthy attractive baby used to be considered a good adoption risk. Now we know that babies as well as older children may be rated as to native ability and we give psychological tests to every child received by us no matter what his age. These tests are very tentative as yet but when combined with careful physical examinations and social histories, and safeguarded by retests at proper intervals, they offer at least one valuable tool for beginning to treat babies as persons.

In the concentrating upon the young child, therefore, we are not ignoring later developments but are on the contraiy for the first time recognizing their origin and trying in a rational and scientific fashion to seek control at the source. Both psychiatrist

Digitized by

Google
581

and psychologist Are demonstrating that the personality trends in children which later make problems for educators and social workers as well as parents have a history which can be traced. Modem psychology is pretty well agreed that the reform of an individual is not accomplished by will power, force, punishment or fear. Bad as well as good behavior is not something which is established over night. It is a product of years, the outgrowth of a particular experience. To change it is a scientific, rather than a moral problem. In psychology as in medicine, we are fast coming to see that prevention gives the best hope of control. We do spend much thought and effort in struggling to adjust adults, in helping them to produce changes for the better in their habits and attitudes, but we know that the best way to insure mental health to adults is to safeguard their first experiences, to understand more thoroughly how human beings are conditioned from earliest infancy and to attempt to control the process in the interest of the individual and society before it becomes so complex.

This is not meant to ignore the importance of heredity but rather to emphasize the fact that given a certain inherited equipment, the individual from the moment of birth, if not before, is being modified and reshaped continuously in response to the particular environment into which he happens to have been bom and over this conditioning environmental process we ought to be able to exercise some control, whereas heredity is still beyond our reach.

John has inherited a sturdy body together with a very limited mentality but that is no reason why he should develop an interest in destroying rather than in making things or a habit of resisting stubbornly instead of complying cheerfully. We should have to know the conditions under which John grew to understand why he learned to gain satisfaction or defend himself in unpleasing rather than pleasing ways.

Harry has inherited a good mind, a strong body and a great deal of determined energy and force. In the particular family in which he has been placed from infancy he has learned to express his determination in tantrums which have been highly successful in controlling the adults around him. From a baby’s point of view, it is intelligent to scream and kick if it produces the desired result but it is certainly stupid if not criminal in an adult to allow a child to become conditioned to getting his wants satisfied in a way which will not work outside the family circle. This particular family is so blind to what is taking place in their midst that they, like many of us, are quite ready to blame the child and his inheritance for the responses he is building up to the social environment they provide.

No one would blame a child of ten or twelve for lack of physical health produced in the course of living under the care of his parents but would explain his condition in therms not only of his inheritance but of the health habits of his family, his feeding, exercise, rest, play, clothing, etc. Yet we do tend to treat as a moral issue deserving of praise or blame, the good or bad behavior of

Digitized by

Google
682

children as if they were in some way responsible or could control the conditions under which their ways of reacting to life have been formed.

If we are to be intelligent about social as well as physical problems we have to abandon our emotional reactions to the things children do in our homes, our streets and our school rooms and use the best minds we have in trying to find out why and how behavior is built up. If our interest lies in assigning responsibility, praise, blame or punishment for any particular bit of conduct, we shall never be able to take toward that behavior the scientific attitude which treats it as a problem to be controlled only by complete understanding. It is hard for parents to realize that the intolerable behavior for which they bring the child to the psychiatrist, has grown up as a direct response to the living conditions they have provided, to the attitudes and habits they themselves exhibit. It is hard for them not to feel themselves criticized when their part in the final situation is pointed out. It is hard for the teacher of a large class to see her own share in the unpleasant reactions of a troublesome boy. She needs to put a stop to this disturbing influence in a class which is too large to teach anyway. How can she with her immediate and pressing practical problem, stop to individualize one of her forty children, and patiently trace back into earliest childhood the development of his particular way of meeting life?

The answer is she probably cannot ever work out the origins of behavior in terms of each child without the help of a school counsellor or visiting teacher but she can get a new and more scientific attitude toward behavior problems, she can know enough about the theoretical possibilities to interpret the ordinary defense reactions which are common to childhood. She can accept frankly the fact that she too is an important factor in the problem and be willing to examine her own attitudes and their effect on the child.

Nothing would do more to simplify discipline, to remove irritation, to increase resourcefulness in dealing with conduct problems in the school, than a point of view which could see in John’s obstinacy, Jennie’s unreasonable timidity, Tom’s rebellion, or Sam’s playing the fool, patterns which these children have built up in the pre-school years in their efforts to adjust to their own

Particular homes. If one saw that John was just hiding behind is stubborn exterior a fear of being ridiculed which had been his way of escaping from the jests and criticism of his older brothers and sisters, who felt quite justified in looking down upon a belated last baby in the family, one would not be so much irritated as interested in the possibility of altering that pattern. Tom’s rebellion may be but a transfer to Hie teacher who represents authority, his determined resistance to an unjust tyrannical father. In the possibility of developing a different attitude toward someone over him may lie his only hope of escaping delinquency.

Jennie’s timidity may be the result of Hie prohibitions and ears of an equally timid mother who has guarded her from birth

Digitized by

Google
688

and instilled a fear of life itself from earliest infancy or it may be the result of unfavorable comparison with a more able and better loved brother or sister. Perhaps we can give Jennie some new experiences in daring and achievement.

Possibly Sam makes a goat of himself because he craves attention and success and has never found any other way of getting them. Maybe he is less able than his mates, perhaps he is physically inferior. Something has prevented his learning to put himself across in other ways. His family may have put a premium on foolishness by never paying attention to anything else. In any case to realize that Sam is carrying over from early years a childish pattern for gaining attention and a feeling of power, will be more helpful in dealing with him than blind repression.

To understand ourselves as well as the children we teach, we have to be able to see the roots of behavior reaching back to the moment of birth, possibly to intra uterine life. The baby is a living responding organism, at least as soon as he enters the world, and we have no reason to assume that what happens to him in this period leaves no impression just because it has not been in terms of conscious experience. There are those who see in the birth process the first fear experience which introduces the unconscious infant to the life struggle. There are those who find in birth where it has been peculiarly hard or the child peculiarly sensitive, the basis for deep seated fear which makes for serious difficulties of adjustment throughout the individual’s existence. The nursing experience, although never a conscious one, must surely have left profound impressions and conditioned us in ways which as yet we can only guess at. This first association with the mother would inevitably affect the later relationship not only to the mother but to other adults. It is impossible to believe that whether nursing is a pleasant, satisfactory experience to both mother and child or a souce of pain and discomfort, makes no difference to the mother-child relationship or to the food interest through which so much of our later development is motivated.

So with all these first contacts of the infant with life, we have no right to assume that they do not count. The psychiatrists are coming more and more through the study of the adults to realize that fundamental interests, important attitudes and character traits are acquired during the first years, through the conditions of nursing, weaning, the acquiring of bladder and bowel control, and the like with the emotional attitudes that are aroused and the relationships to parents which are developed thereby.

Setting aside this early period about which we know so little that we can only suggest possibilities, we come to the later preschool years where the conditioning influences of family life are much more clearly understood. Perhaps if we ask ourselves what children, or adults for that matter, most need for happiness and mental health, we shall be in a better position to see what early life in the family has to do with both. The fundamental need for all human beings it seems to me, is a sense of at homeness in one’s environment, a feeling of being adequate to life as one finds it.

Digitized by

Google
584

This sounds simple but it depends upon a good many factors which are in their ramifications infinitely complex. This feeling of security and adequacy in life depends upon at least three things in childhood,—a stable background, ability to win approval which is characteristic of other children of the same age. A little later in the child’s development we can see that there must be included as part of his sense of security a positive fearless attitude towards sex and a belief that he will be able to achieve sex happiness, to find a satisfactory love object outside of his own family.

How does a child get his sense of stability, of firm ground under his feet? Where else but through his parents and the family circle. We who work with dependent children understand only too well the shock to confidence which comes with the discovery that one's own home is not necessarily a safe refuge, a permanent foundation. The child who is moved from place to place ip a prey to undercurrents of fear and insecurity, which inevitably find expression in blind attempts to compensate. Such attempts since they are unconscious are seldom well chosen or socially acceptable.

But a child need not be dependent or out of his own home, to feel the effect of instability in the family background. The little child, the child who has never come to school is already responding with fear, hatred, distrust, to the drunken father or is learning to deceive one parent to protect the other. Such a child may have acquired already a sex antagonism because his outgoing emotions toward the only male adult he knows are blocked by the painful experiences.

Again we need not fall back upon such gross invasions of family solidarity to find causes for fundamental fear in childhood. A child responds to such subtleties as lack of love and understanding between parents. The parents are his only patterns of human relationships, his all powerful protectors. If they quarrel, disagree in their discipline, are not loving with each other, the child’s security is undermined. Then there are patents who do not love their children or who do not love them equally well. One of the difficult adjustments of early childhood is learning to give up one’s place as baby, as the center of love and attention and

in the affection of moth<

If parents happen to prefer the new baby, if they are not aware of what is happening to the feelings of the older child, if the later arrival is actually more beautiful, more able, more fit or better behaved than the older child, there may have been initiated here feelings of jealousy and rivalry, which will determine many unfortunate traits. How any particular child will be conditioned by jealousy depends on his previous experiences, his natural makeup and the other factors in his situation. But of one thing you may be sure, the results are never desirable. I think of one child whose every attitude was based on jealousy of a younger sister. Her unconsciously acquired means of attracting more parental care and solicitude lay in the development of acute fears and threats

accept the new comer

temporarily,

Digitized by

Google
585

of suicide and this at a tender age. Another child from earliest years had resisted her mother’s devotion to the older sister and found no satisfaction in turning to the father because he was the weak member of the family, often laboring under his wife’s condemnation. This particular child gained her share of attention and a tyrannical control over the family by tantrums and violence so extreme that she almost disrupted the home. Both of these children belonged to cultured families and were themselves superior intellectually. The first child excelled at school as a part of her competition with her less able, although better loved sister; the second child, who could not outdo her older sister, refused to make any effort, disdained competition and went to school under compulsion.

Some jealous children become timid, repressed and shut in, and, feeling that they do not have the approval of the parents, do not trust their own ability to win approval from those outside of the family. Still others assert themselves violently, become overbearing, self-centered, domineering in their efforts to make up for the painful sense of failure at home, or develop a chronic grouch, a depressed or antagonistic attitude toward the universe and a delight in picking out the faults of others.

If parents and teachers wish to make real to themselves how intolerable to childhood is the feeling of being condemned or disliked, they have only to subject themselves to the frank criticism of a friend who is unconsciously hostile. No one can bear to be despised or rejected as a person and children who depend so completely upon adults for reassurance can least of all maintain a belief in themselves and their own worth in the face of any fundamental disapproval.

The truly loving parent may criticize behavior but he never rejects the child himself unless unconsciously he really does not like the personality or cannot tolerate certain traits which cause him too much pain to be borne. Sometimes a brilliant father cannot endure the fact that his boy is not able to follow in his footsteps. His own ego is wounded. He may not realize what he does, but his every attitude makes the child feel displeasure. If a brilliant daughter or younger son comes along to satisfy his pride and ambition for his children, the boy who has failed cannot hope to escape the results of the unfavorable comparison.

Then there are all the inferiorities of physical and mental make-up which may from the first handicap the child and interfere with his belief in himself. All kinds of organic defects, physical disabilities, lack of grace, beauty, muscular coordination, rhythm, even such apparently trifling things as red hair, overweight, undersize, may act as deterrents to free, comfortable development. An inferior mentality, particularly if contrasted sharply with abler minds, particular disabilities or unappreciated gifts, contribute in the same way to a sense of insecurity, inability to win approval and deter the child from attempting the activities through which confidence might be gained. None of these determiners of hlabit and attitude necessarily wait for school exper-

Digitized by

Google
586

ience but they are emphasized by the school situation which increases strain by competition with many other children in an impersonal, less secure environment.

The balance and self confidence in life which we have laid down as fundamental for mental health and happiness are also affected vitally by the sex attitudes which psychiatry now show us were already in process of formation before the school period.

The tiny girl who goes over happily and confidently to her father and finds in him a satisfactory masculine ideal, has laid thie foundation for the later successful transfer of sex love to the man she marries. The girl child who from the first clings to the mother and finds in the father only a source of fear, disgust or aversion may well have difficulty in going out to the opposite sex when happiness demands it. The same possibilities are open to the boy. The relationship between father and mother, their own happiness and acceptance of sex life, are bound to determine positively or negatively what their children shall unconsciously seek and feel.

The sense of something secret and hidden from which the child is shut out, arouses a distrust arid suspicion, a feeling mysteriously evil, which may destroy confidence in the plarents and condition the child to associate sex with wrong doing and secrecy for years if not for life. Parents have it in their power to make sex from the first a normal interesting fact of life which any intelligent child would want to know about and by their own joy to condition the child to expect a similar experience when he grows up, or they can equally surely block his emotions and repress his curiosity sending it into underground channels of whose existence they know nothing. The child whose curiosity is successfully repressed may thereby fail to be curious about life itself, or he may spend a lifetime compensating for repressed sex interest by a symbolic curiosity in some less tabooed field. Certain it is he cannot escape some injury from the unhappy sex life of his parents, nor can he avoid contamination from a vulgarity or prudishness which at bottom believes to be evil the activities in which it never the less indulges.

Since sex is a vital hunger in all human beings, early experiences, pre-school experiences which create a profound aversion to or unwholesome curiosity about sex life will tend to weaken the individual’s belief in himself and life and may even so destroy his courage or inclination that failure to find a mate will result. Such a warping and blocking of normal, human desire inevitably affects mental health and inspires a profound feeling of failure.

If personality and behavior may be so thoroughly conditioned for good or ill, what remains for the school when the pre-school child is pre-school no longer. One reply is not to leave him pre-school so long, to recognize that education begins before six. The other answer is that no conditioning is final or fatal if only we understand it, that school life is equally rich in possibilities of new and reforming experiences, that if the home fails to use its early opportunites, the child must depend^on the school for his chance to grow into

Digitized by

Google
587

better mental health. Through the understanding teacher the badly adjusted child may regain the self-confidence which a happy, trusting relationship with an adult can give; from a school program rich in contacts with reality and varied opportunities for developing new powers and skills he may slowly win the more virile independent security, which a successful use of one’s own strength alone can provide.

The facts which psychiatry and psychology are discovering about the importance of parents and family life to the mental health of the next generation, far from relieving the schools of responsibility only increase their obligation and enlarge infinitely the vision of what it means to educate a child.

A SUMMARY OF THE ROCHESTER CONVENTION

Carl L. Schrader

The scope of the subjects entering upon the field of physical education as represented in the program which is drawing to a close, cain not have failed to impress itself upon those in attendance. It clearly shows the trend of our work. Mr. Frank W. Wright’s closing sentence at the opening address, after laying emphasis upon the various results elxpected from our work: VThis may seem a big contract to you, biit it is also a big bill that the public pays,” gains in significance as we have listened to the various expferts in their fields.

To the laymen present, some of the danger signals may have seemed overrated and some of the objectives may give rise to misinterpretation, but to the trained worker in the field, there hias been offered much food for serious thought which we trust and hope will result in increased endeavor to gain and retain the good understanding of the paying public.

It was both refreshing and encouraging to have a high state official in education state his belief in us and our specific work, and it was likewise a good omen to have a county school superintendent of Pennsylvania tell of his administration of the physical education program throughout his county. Beginning with the fundamentals, namely schoolhouse sanitation, he traced step by step the onward march to a situation in a rural county which serves as an example of what is possible when the chief administrator carries his convictions into action.

It was timely that Mr. Affleck in his splendid paper, “Responsibility of the Physical Educator in Hygiene Instruction” called attention to the difference between physical training and physical education. These two terms are erroneously used interchangeably when in reality they mean vastly different things, and by us at least should be used accurately and advisedly. Physical training is merely a preparation toward technical perfection which

‘Address At the )#st session of the convention,

Digitized by <^.ooQle
588

may be and usually is void of educational significance and aim. “Both man and animal may be trained, but man may also be educated” says John Dewey, the Pestalozzi of America. In physical education we create and utilize situations which in addition to technique call for behavioristic manifestations aimed to give opportunity for expressing character. Professor Hocking of Harvard in his book on “Morale and Its Enemies” syas the following: “Morale is condition; good morale is good condition of the inner man, it is the state of will in which yori can get most from the machinery, deliver blows with the greatest effect, take blows with the least depression and hold out for the longest time.”

Dr. Emerson’s message connecting postural shortcomings with faulty nutrition, also his word of caution in regard to corrective measures through exercise could not have been carried to a more appreciative group than he had to speak before. Correct posture is largely a matter of muscle tone, and muscle tone is largely a matter of physical well being. A slump in one means a slump in the other. Correction either through nutrition or exercise should be preceded by careful deliberation and study of the individual case.

In calling attention to the need of proper classification of girls for the program of physical education, Miss Cummings touched upon orte of the great weaknesses of a hjgh school physical education program not for girls only, but also for the boys. The classification at present-is largely one of convenience. Instead of either age, grade or ability, it is according to existing vacant periods. Which other subjects would thrive under such arrangement? The rural school teacher in the ungraded schools is the only other teacher constantly confronted with such a task. Let us trust that it is not the high school Principals’ intention to glorify that rural condition to the extent of injecting it into the modem high school. At best our young boys and girls are embarrassed because of the physical illiteraipy of which they are conscious, but for which they are not responsible, because of lack of opportunity in the elementary schools. Nowhere is embarrassment as keenly felt as in the gymnasium or on the playfield, partly because the awkward response to a situation is more conspicuous and painful here than the wrong answer to a verbal question in the ordinary school subjects and secondly because the responses are more frequent here than they are in the ordinary class room where only one individual responds at a time. To the misplaced pupil in physical eduction, the period which should be looked forward to with anticipation becomes a period of humiliation—a situation of which any teacher in physical education who teaches under such conditions can speak feelingly.

The moral objective in the field of physical education which was dealt with by Major Griffith is one of the outstanding hopes in education, and here more than in any other one phase is the personality of leadership essential. Morals are riot based upon what one knows, but upon what one does, and the doing, in the main must be habitual to become the approved behavior of so-

Digitized by

Google
589

ciety. The discussion which followed brought out clearly that no activity “as such” has moral or behavioristic value. An individual may be technically perfect and yet be of low calibre character, or in other words, be a ’ poor sportsman. To recognize in all our subject matter the tods, and to use them for training in character is the art of teaching. The three cardinal questions which every teacher should ask of himself daily are likely to interpret the material as suggested above. These questions are:

What am I goin'g to teach today?

How am I going to teach it?

Why am I going to teach it?

It is difficult to conceive how anyone answering these questions conscientiously can fall far short of those expectations which our leading educators held in regard to our specific field. But that type of teacher does not abound as yet.

The question as to what was to be our attitude toward junior high school competition was also raised in this discussion. It is indeed a disappointing tendency when we see the junior high school become afflicted with the illogical procedure prevalent in many of our high schools. Already there are junior high school boys’ and girls’ interscholastic schedules and championships. It never was the purpose of the junior high schools to transfer to them bodily from the high schools the social life and the intensive competition in athletic activities. Much of the unrest on the part of youth today of which we are cognizant may be laid at the door of both the home and the school. The tendency on the part of parents and teachers alike of urging youth from his play world of childhood into the prosaic world of the adult is a lamentable fact. Boys and girls in thteir early teens are rushed socially, and are permitted to indulge in functions lasting much beyond the limit of health and commdn sense. The junior high school boys and girls cannot afford the extravagance necessary for championship schedules of sport nor the social excitement inevitable at the frequent late entertainments. It is contradictory of all efforts made in our much talked of health education.

Testing motor ability is a very definite need which is gradually being met. Not that we expect to deal with this problem with any finality, for at best the findings will be merely hypotheses, but it is logical to suppose that the findings will at least be as definite and as accurate as are those of the intelligence tests. Dr. Maroney gave the results of part of these tests prepared by the national committee on motor ability tests and as given throughout the grades in Atlantic City. It is only from such mass attempts in many places and with the same materials that future results may be gained, and not by sporadic attempts at varying test exercises. In the scope of the material suggested in this committee report lies its value in contrast to those attempts which include only a few supposedly major activities. The newer education deals more and more with the individual child, and the child rather than the subject is taught. To do this means to understand
590

and know the child, and such intimacy may only be gained by knowing of its strong and weak points and these to be of consequence must be based uptoin findings, hence the growing significance for testing.

Such is the onward march in education. Are we going to be in step?

OLD AGE—WHAT IS IT?

Old age is simply the result of the inability of the bbdy to keep the blood and tissue fluids free from poison. The poison-destroying and poison-eliminating mechanisms of the body have become deranged and function poorly, or they have been given a load to carry beyond their capability. Probably the excess load has usually hastened their derangement.

Speaking generally, it is true that human life may be prolonged and efficiency maintained so long as the poisonous waste substances, which result from work, are promptly and completely eliminated. There is good reason for believing that the living cells which compose the brain, bones, nerves, muscles and glands might live and function efficiently for an indefinite period if the blood and fluids of the body could only be kept sufficiently free from the poisonous products of tissue waste.

Of course all living matter must some day die. That is an inexorable law of nature. So every machine must some day wear out, and the automobile driven one hundred miles per day can not last as long as the one driven only ten miles per day. The machine, however, whose bearings are kept cleaned and freshly oiled, whose minor defects are corrected before they become serious defects, whose load is carefully gauged to suit its capacity will give a total of service infinitely greater than the one which does not receive this degree of care. The properly cared for machine, though driven one hundred miles per day will give greater years of service than will the neglected one though driven only ten miles per day.

So with the human body, age is not nearly so much a matter of years or of work as it is a matter of care. It is certainly more true of the human body than of any man-made machine. The human body, unlike the machine, can never have its injured parts replaced. A kidney or an arm once removed is gone forever.

Notwithstanding all the silly talk and clamor for gland grafting or rejuvenating operations, such renewal of vital organs is impossible. No such attempt has yet been seriously successful. What has happened, to give credence to such a fallacy, is that measures have been employed which have acted as a whip to a tired over-loaded horse. Such stimulating measures have spurred the body on to an increased expenditure of strength without

♦Reprint from Health Bulletin, State of North Carolina.

Digitized by
591

adding to that strength and thus in the long run have actually hastened death rather than “rejuvenating” life. Although the sex glands do have a part to play in tte physiology of the body aside from their chief function of reproduction, their influence is by no means the dominating factor in the maintenance of the integrity of structure and function.

The unuch, the gelding, and the ox may live to a great proportionate age and endure equal work and stress as their brothers. The barrow and the capon develop even more rapidly than their brothers. In these cases it is proven that sex glands do have a determining influence on the direction of development but sex glands do not hasten nor delay development, neither do they hasten nor delay “old age”. Sex glands are not poison-eliminating nor poison-neutralizing organs.

The prominent organs which do this, and which can be advantageously watched, are the liver, the kidneys, the colon and the lungs.

The liver filters from the blood the alkaline wastes and poisons. The kidneys filter from the blood the acid wastes and for protecting their own (renal) tissues manufacture ammonia to neutralize the destructive acids. These organs have abundant capacity for caring for the natural necessary demands made upon them. It is only the excessive and usually unnecessary labor thrown upon them that causes the trouble and break-downs; such as the disposal of excessive quantities and inappropriate quality of food, eaten only for the pleasure experienced of the tickle of the palate as it slips by on its way to the stomach.

The colon is the last few feet of the intestinal tract and its primary function like all the rest of the intestinal tract is to digest or prepare and absorb nutritive elements from the food. There is thrown into the intestinal tract all along the way the body wastes, which, added to the refuse food and food wastes, makes a considerable part of the colon content waste and refuse. In the evolution of man the colon has taken on another function which is like that of the bladder and is to serve as a temporary reservoir for waste products that they may be expelled periodically. While this purpose serves man’s convenience it also affords its dangers. The effete contents of the colon soon putrifies and forms the added poisonous products of decay which, when taken up by the natural, absorption faculty of the colon, are carried by the blood all over the system to be picked up again by the excretory organs, the liver and kidneys, in an endless chain of ever increasing menace. These organs can well care for normal tissue waste one time, but after excreting it once if it must be thrown back upon them again and again in a multiplied amount each time, the limit of endurance is finally reached and the inevitable signs of “old age” appear.

Rejuvenation is a popular word but the only efficient means by which it may be effected is to be found in such measures as will stop the aging process by lightening the burden upon the excretory organs and by fac ilitating the operation of the vital machinery by every possible means. An adequate but not an excessive

Digitized by

Google
592

amount of a well balanced diet containing an abundance of rough-age, vitamins and food salts with plenty of water has marvelous rejuvenating power.

Another factor conducive to early old age must not be omitted. It is the faulty elimination of body waste by means of the lungs. Should you catch a small mouse in an empty half-gallon glass fruit jar, just seal on the lid and see how long the mouse lives. There will be very little suffering but presently the mouse will begin to act as if it felt as sluggish as you feel in the morning after sleeping all night in a room with windows closed tightly. Presently the mouse dies, literally poisoned by rebreathing itfS own poisoned breath. The sealed jar is proportionately about as large for the mouse as your own sealed room would be for you, and you too would be dead by morning if your room could be as complet-ly sealed as is the jar. Because you have worked all day in the open out of doors does not mean that you can safely spend eight or nine hpurs at night in a closed room. There must be unhindered excretion from the lungs every minute of the time, and more actual damage may be done by sleeping in a closed room than by working in a closed office or store.

“Old age can be deferred,”—“Eternal vigilance is the Price of Liberty.”

PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR WORKERS

A Radio-talk by William J. Bogan, Asst. Superintendent of Schools, Chicago, 111.

In the Middle Ages education was restricted almost entirely to the clergy. To read and interpret the Scriptures and the writings of the Fathers a knowledge of Greek, Latin and Sanskrit was necessary. To argue and expound the lessons of theology a knowledge ot rhetoric, dialectics and logic, was necessary. This kind of education was excellent for its day and is good for many people in the present day, but unfortunately it set a fashion for all education down to very recent times. Even today many people believe that real education consists entirely of mathematics, language, history, science, literature and a few traditional subjects.

Until the great war the schools of this country gave little attention to physical education, and that little was given reluctantly. In comparison with the time devoted to mathematics, language and allied subjects the time devoted to educating the body was short indeed. Many so-called educators felt that they could not spare time from the “Three R’s” in the course of study to give to health training—as if education without health had any value.

Lest my listeners should be influenced by the theory that physical education should not have a part in real education, I remind them that the greatest civilization in history—Greek civilization—was based upon dancing and other forms of physical education. Modem civilization, based upon our theory of education, has never produced the equals of Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, Per-

Digitized by

Google
698

icles, Sophocles and other men of ancient times. In art, in literature and in philosophy, Greek civilization produced master minds. In sculpture for instance, the best of today is but a weak imitation of the magnificent work of the Greeks of thousands of years ago.

A return to Greek ideals in physical education was prompted by the lessons of the great war. The necessity for lowering the draft regulatious time and again to accommodate the low physical standards reached by our men aroused the schools to the necessity for devoting much more time to physical education than had ever been given to the subject in this country. Sound mind in sound body became the motto of our schools. It should become a motto for industrial plants. The following facts will show why:

1—	In the past twenty years the personnel of manufacturing industries has more than doubled.

2—	Plants having over 1,000 employes now employ almost 30 per cent of all workers.

3—	The eight hour day has been accepted as standard with many groups working five and one-half days per week.

4—	The tendency of the American Nation to become a people who fill the bleachers rather than active units playing the game has its dangers. In the smaller cities most boys play baseball but as the space for playing decreases with the congestion of population in the larger cities, fewer boys learn to play and still fewer men continue to play, a condition that causes owners of ball clubs much worry, for they see their audiences of the future dwindling rapidly for lack of fresh supplies.

A city’s responsibility for the leisure time of its citizens is thus seen to be a much broader one than that of merely furnishing safe playgrounds for children under twelve years of age. It must take into consideration the leisure time of all ages and greater use of all city recreational facilities. School houses should be utilized for groups of adults when not needed for children. Vacant lots should be made available for public use even when privately owned, as is now being done in Chicago through the Bureau of Parks and Playgrounds of the city.

Physical education and recreation for industrial workers require close cooperation between employers and employes. The cost to employes should be low. Competition should be provided for large numbers. There should be competition in the factories and between the factories where practicable. There should be snappy setting-up exercises for large groups.

Athletic activities generally fostered are: Baseball, basket ball, soccer, football, dodge ball, volley ball, track and field athletics, skating, tennis, rifle marksmanship, bowling, social dances. For all workers, and especially for those who are confined to factory tasks for long hours, walking in the open air should become a habit. A brisk walk of fifteen minutes twice a day will work miracles of health in a short time.

Digitized by LjOOQle
594

There are three types of industrial recreation. These types or classes are due to the geographical relation of the plant to the homes of the employes. First, there is the large industrial plant in the large city with employes scattered over an area of ten or fifteen miles. This means a recreational program in the plant. Second, there is the industrial plant just as large but located in a small town in which employes live near the plant. This means industrial community recreational programs. Third, there is the industrial plant in a small community of say 2,000, where the employes are scattered in small cities not far away. Here are combined the community and industrial plant recreation programs.

In many places recreation is fostered on company time. However, the tendency to-day in many large cities is to provide suitable recreation spaces for use of employes on their leisure time and provide such play equipment as they may need and desire, and not force them to enter company leagues and tournaments. Many large concerns conduct medical and physical examinations for their employes, provide gymnasiums and instructors for physical education, and direct the leisure-time activities.

Many concerns also apply what is termed in the schools two-minute relief drills, at, say, ten o’clock in the morning, and three o’clock in the afternoon when all windows are opened and setting up exercises are given for the entire room.

The purpose of all recreational and physical education programs in industry is for the building up of good health, the teaching of the value of organization, the teaching of clean living, the development of respect for law and order. The industrial firm that invests in community recreation can expect as dividends, loyal, healthy, clean living and team-working employes.

A CAMP SCORING SCHEDULE FOR USE IN AWARDING

CAMP HONORS

John Alexander, Jr., Philadelphia

Summer Camps are primarily educational institutions. The purpose of a camp, to be truly educational must include the whole development of the child.

The organization of Camp directors into an association was originally undertaken to set and maintain high standards in camping.

Each camp has its own developed theory of organization and programme of activity. It is almost impossible to suggest a plan or programme which can be carried out or should be carried out at every camp. Careful consideration and attention should be given in making a balanced programme, whereby every child m camp may participate in the activities and share equally and proportionately in the Camp Honors and awards.

A camp for boys in Pennsylvania, with a registration of 90 Campers has been using the following plan for several years.

Digitized by

Google
595

The Creed of this camp has two factors: “to inculcate a noble ideal of life during the formative years, and to guide the steps of youth in paths of things worth while that appeal to boys as recreational.”

Camp Trophies and Amends.

Silver loving cups are awarded to the Senior, Intermediate and Junior Campers most closely approaching the ideals of the camp. These gifts are based on the judgment of the entire camp. Being the highest honor, it automatically bars the recipients from the competition for the medals.

Gold, Silver and Bronze Medals are given for the first, second and third scores respectively in the season's total of points in the Senior, Intermediate and Juniors camps. Nine medals are awarded:

The Scoring Schedule

Camp letters are awarded to campers who score 170 or more points on a basis of the following evaluations:

Athletics: 20 points for passing prescribed tests, 10 points for success in competition.

Swimming: 20 points for passing prescribed tests, 10 points for success in competition.

Boating: 5 points for passing rowboat test, 5 points for passing canoe test, 5 points for careful handling of water-craft.

Hiking: 5 points for at least 5 miles and sleep out, 5 points for cooking meals.

Entertainment: 15 points for participation in Camp shows.

Craft work: 15 points for diligence and accomplishment.

Tennis: 10 points based on tournaments.

Quoits: 5 points based on tournaments.

Improved form: 10 points for swimming, 10 points for athletics, 10 points for posture.

Co-operation: 30 points for willing participation in all camp activities.

Promptness: 15 points for punctuality at meals, rising, etc.

Neatness: 15 points for appearance and orderliness.

Deportment: 25 points for observing polite conduct.

Points in athletic and Swimming tests are measured by performance.

ATHLETIC tests

Events	Points	Junior Aims	Senior Aims	Intermediate Aims
Standing Broad Jump	4	5 ft 3 inches	6 ft 9 inches	6 feet
Basketball Far Throw	4	25 feet	35 feet	30 feet
50-Yard Dash	4	8 seconds	7.2 seconds	7.3 seconds
Baseball Target Throw 4		60 feet	10' ft 3 out of 6	75 feet 3 out of 6
Chinning	4	2 times	4 times	3 times

Digitized by

Google
596

SWIMMING TESTS

Beginners

Rowboat

Canoe

BOATING TESTS

Pts

10	25	yards

5	75	yards

5 150 yards Points

Privilege award Use of diving board and chute Use of rowboats without Councilor Use of canoes without Councilor

Rowboat	5	To	meet	a	test	in	handling	boats

Canoe	5	To	demonstrate	skill	in	paddling

Care of flotilla	5	Based	on	observation	of	Council	through	season

One Bronze medal is given to the boy making the greatest athletic progress during the season.

Another Bronze medal is given to the boy showing the finest evidence of camp spirit.—The boy who has done his best for the camp's welfare.

The councilors with special assignment i.e.—Athletic Councilor, Swimming councilor etc., prepare the point scores for their respective activities. These marks are submitted to one of the Directors, who transfers the marks to the Camp Scoring Sheet.

Points for cooperation—promptness—neatness—deportment are decided at a council meeting held near the close of the season.

When the camp season is over, the boy who has accomplished something definite knows that the summer has been well spent. He has had all the legitimate joys of the season, but at the same time he looks back upon a summer eminently worth while.

FIRST AID TO THE INJURED

First of a Series of Articles on First Aid authorized by the Northern Division of the American Red Cross

By Captain G. H. G. Fisher.

The Triangular Bandage

This is the particular bandage which we wish to have you learn to use, in all cases of F,rst Aid, where a bandage is necessary. It can be made from any old sheet or pillow-case, or use unbleached cotton thirty-six to forty inches square, and if you use the unbleached material, see that it is not too heavy, but a little heavier than cheese cloth. Fold the square of cloth comerwise and cut, that giving you two triangular pieces; and for the size to use on the hand, shoulder or for small scarfs, cut one of these larger triangles in half and that will give two smaller bandages.

In all applications, aside from the arm slmgs, always aim at neatness by folding in the edges, tucking in the ends, and positively always tie a square knot. Study the illustrations which are found in the A. R. C. First Aid hand books, and you will quickly acquire the knack of applying the bandage correctly and neatly.

The peculiar advantage of the triangular bandage is that the material to make it may be found almost anywhere, that it can be applied to any part of the body, and unlike the roller bandage, it can be put on quickly and stay where it is put. Be sure and make a set and fold up and put away for the emergency which may arise at any moment.

Digitized by booQle
597

o	 <.

News, notes and comments

- ---------------------------------*

"BASKETBALL EVIL” CITED BY INVENTOR OF GAME

Dr. James Naismith, director of physical education of the University of Kansas, while attending as an invited guest tiie Indiana basketball meet, Indianapolis, Ind. also visited the Normal College and addressed the students on basketball, which game he invented. Dr. Naismith said:

“Thirty years ago I invented basketball and today I stand before you fighting the very game I brought into being.”

Dr. Naismith explained that some thirty years ago physical education other than summer outdoor sports, was confined largely to heavy apparatus work and formal gymnastics. At this time he was asked to invent a game that would give a young man recreation as well as exercise in the gymnasium during the winter months.

"Basketball was the result of my efforts to give young men such a game and it was not until my son grew up and began taking an active part in high school athletics that my attention was attracted to the fact that basketball had become entirely too important a factor in school boy life. Basketball was invented for young men of twenty years or older and as such it was and still is a fine game but when it is played by boys ranging from twelve to eighteen years of age it becomes dangerous. The game develops boys from the hips down only. The same is true practically of all other games. The legs are developed and the vital part of the body, the part from the hip up, the part in which we live, is neglected.”

Dr. Naismith gave interesting facts concerning the thousands of young men he has examined in the past few years.

"I am convinced,” he said, “that the modern systems of physical education in vogue in so many schools and colleges throughout the country is not the system that tends to build the race. This college (referring to the Normal College) is one of the institutions in the country I know of that is teaching and preparing its students to go out and teach one right and rational system of body building.”

During the Columbus meeting of the Ohio College Association, April 3rd a very lively discussion was aroused by Prof. E. G. Mahm’s assertion that intercollegiate athletics have been commercialized. Prof. L. W. St. John, head of the department of physical education and director of athletics at Ohio State University, and Dr. J. W. Wilce, professor of physical education and football director at the same institution characterized the state-

Google
598

ment of the Purdue professor as based on misjudgment, antiquated and in a large part “bunk.”

•Director St. John pointed out that the Ohio State football schedules for a dozen years have been almost solely confined to members of the Big Ten, or to traditional opponents in Ohio.

The charge that football is detrimental to health of players was declared by Dr. Wilce to be contrary to facts, pointing out that increased emphasis is being placed on careful physical preparation of players. He declared the few major injuries sustained during a football season are nearly always due to failure to observe precautions issued to team members by trainers and team physicians.

Prof. Mahin's statement that the Western conference “is without faculty control of athletics,” was branded as utterly false by director St. John. At Ohio State for example, he explained, intercollegiate athletics are directly controlled by an athletic board of rtine members, five of whom are faculty representatives.

The “Times-Union” of Rochester in an editorial during the recent convention of the Eastern Section of the Am. Physical Ed. Assn, calls attention to the many phases of the work undertaken to raise physical standards and to counteract injurious features in the expansion of city population and monotonous, narrowing tendencies inherent in industry As President Schrader yesterday said:

“The broad objective of physical education, that of teaching children how to live, undoubtedly plays a more important part today, because civilization now exacts a much more careful program of living than was necessary years ago. Muscle activities, once the chief asset, are being rapidly crowded out by labor saving devices.”

The full benefit of this program will come when the children who are being instructed in simple principles of hygiene and health assume the helm and direct the activities of the community.

Inqidentally, it can be said for our mechanized civilization that it is now turning out devices to counteract some of its own faults.

The automobile comes first as a means of access to the country and fresh air. And now roller skates, coasters and velocipedes that will really work, in place of the crude products of a generation ago, give the small city child a chance to play on his own sidewalk.

Perhaps the time will come when even such a densely conservative class as the engineers who lay out streets, to whobe stupidity and lack of imagination the foolish checkerboard pattern of many cities is a lasting monument, wll find a means of doing away with the crossing cujrb which hampers every woman wheeling a baby carriage and every child with his cart or velocipede.

Digitized by Google
599

At the Rochester conventipn of the Eastern Section of the Am. Physical Education Association Dr. William R. P. Emerson of Boston in an address said:

"Show me one thing that has been accomplished by “talking health" to school children.”

His advice to teachers of physical education was to investigate the home and school program of the undernourished child and find the cause of his condition, rather than to put him through a health course and an annual medical examination.

"Every child wants to be healthy,” said Doctor Emerson. “It isn’t necessary to convince him that he should be. With all the health teaching that has been done we have got nowhere except to find more undernourished children in high school at the end of the course than in the beginning.

“The job for the physical educator is to become a diagnostician of health. All but the heart and lungs examination in the so-called medical inspection can be done by the physical educator.

“Supplement it with a study of the undernourished child's food and activity program, in and out of school, and when you have arrived at the cause of his condition, teach him what to do to remove it.”

PHYSICAL EDUCATION MEETING IN WASHINGTON*

During my trip to Washington, D. C., to attend the convention called by the Bureau of Education for the purpose of discussing topics relating to the administration of Normal Schools and College departments of physical education, with a view of standardizing courses, I had occasion to stop in Philadelphia and observe some of the work in elementary and high schools. In one of the schools, Mr. Stecher’s plan of rating pupils in athletics, conducted by the boys and girls themselves, was in progress. The yard had been marked off for jumping and throwing, there was a pupil leader seeing that the events were performed according to rules, and another pupil recording the results, which were then transferred to the teacher’s contrQl sheet.

I also had opportunity to observe club work in action in one of the Junior High Schools. The pupils join the club fostering the activities that they are most interested in. There were over ninety clubs organized in this school, many of which foster some physical education activity.

I also saw work in one of the Senior High Schools, and the Freshmen class at Temple University in action under the direction of Mr. Gustav Heinemann, of the class of 1913. The students conducted the activities, consisting of tactics, free exercises, apparatus work, dancing and games.

*Note: From Alumni Bulletin, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

Digitized by Google
600

At the meeting in Washington, representatives from all of the leading colleges and universities conducting physical education courses were present. The program covered discussion of the objectives of physical education, requirements for entrance, the curriculum requirements for graduation, and classification of schools of physical education. The meeting was opened by the Commissioner of Education, Tigert, Who gave a brief historical sketch of the development of physical education and the meeting immediately got down to business.

The first topic discussed was “The objectives of physical education.” Objectives of physical education coincide with the objectives of education in general. Preparation for citizenship, health, particularly teaching and control of health, morals, manners and character and personality were considered the main objectives to be attained. The objectives of the school in preparation of teachers were stated under four headings: first, theory and knowledge; second, skill; third, health and physical fitness; fourth, personality and character.

Among the requirements for entrance, besides the usual high school education with a minimum amount of English and sciences, personality and character were considered most important. Many schools thought it desirable to have a probation period during which the new students were' observed and studied. If they failed to possess traits desirable in future teachers, they were asked to leave.

The curriculum was attacked from a historical point of view, from a critical analysis of each course contained in the curriculum, and finally, an analysis of the requirement of positions which graduates enter (job analysis). The latter method gives the best idea of the need of the subject matter for the preparation of teachers. This is particularly important in the study of requirements for elementary and high schools, which may be looked upon as the key institutions determining the selection of the courses for the curriculum. These courses group themselves around the teaching of the activities, teaching of morals and manners rising out of the activities, the teaching of health and the supervision of health control. The need of keeping the teaching of health and the supervision of health control under the direction of physical educators was several times emphasized during the discussion. The thought was expressed that these subjects should be taught by the physical director rather than the doctor or nurse. In a general way, the academic work should cover one-third general culture, one-third fundamental scientes and one-third professional and general theory in addition to the practical work. There were wide differences of opinion as to the exact division of material, but the above gives about the average of the opinions expressed.

There were some differences of opinion as to the amount of practical work to be required for graduation completed in the third^and fourth year, some insisting that at least ten hours

Digitized by LjOOQLe
601

each week of practical work be given during an entire four year course, while others were inclined to increase the number in the first and second year, but reducing it in the third and fourth year. An appropriate personality and character was considered the most important equipment of a teacher. The need of training in the various activities, the need of a knowledge of the underlying sciences of physical education and the proper amount of general culture was admitted by all, but none of this would be of much avail if the proper character and personality were lacking. The three-year course was considered the minimum for a thorough preparation. The thought was also expressed by some speakers that every graduate should go through the entire system of teaching, beginning with the grades, before being promoted to supervisorship.

The standardizing and classifying of schools of physical education was referred to the national council of the Physical Education Association, which has been making efforts during the past to secure funds from one of the foundations to carry on this work. The Bureau of Education was asked to cooperate with the council.

The meeting as a whole proved of value in as much as there were opportunities for comparison of procedures and ideas about curricula. A committee was appointed which will collect the data obtained from the discussion for publication and prepare a program for a similar meeting to be held next year.

The Kansas City, Mo. Journal-Post has the following interesting item.

Solicitation of $15,000 to keep in operation for two years the state department of physical education and hygiene was launched yesterday by the state executive committee of the Parent-Teacher association and the Missouri Federation of Women’s clubs.

The department, which has charge of physical education and hygiene in the public schools, operates on a budget of $7,500 a year. An appropriation of $15,000 for the next two years was approved by the lower house of the legislature in the last session but the senate killed the bill, appropriating instead but $1,500.

The first contribution to the fund was made yesterday—$1,000 from William Volker.

Heads of the department feared it would have to be discontinued until the two women’s organizations agreed to take up the task of raising the funds to keep the department in existence until the next session of the legislation.

The executive committee of the Parent-Teacher association yesterday adopted a resolution in favor of the drive and today will send letters to all associations in the state asking for support.

The federation of clubs has indorsed the drive and will request the aid of local clubs in the near future.

Google
602

At the annual conference of the Association of Organizers of Physical Education of England Sir Robert Blair, one of the speakers suggested “that since physical training took more out of the teacher than did the teaching of other subjects they should receive salary up to the age of forty.”

Another speaker, Mr. Sharp, pointed out that there was not a single college in England where men could be trained to become teachers of physical education.

According to a note in "Physical Education” England, the president of the British Optical Association at a recent meeting spoke of Eyestrain with consequent headache caused by studying crossword puzzles. He stated that a New York hospital had reported this trouble, and that qualified opticians in England were meeting with similar symptoms.

Mr. Eliot V. Graves has been appointed state supervisor of physical education in Virginia succeeding Mr. Guy C. Throner, who resigned to become a member of the faculty of Oberlin College, Ohio.

The Eye Sight Conservation Council of America has just issued Bulletin No. 5,96 pages, dealing with lantern slides and lecture material that should be of great use to teachers of hygiene, and also to teachers of science when they treat of vision. An accompanying circular states the following:

Many teachers are in a position to use the lantern slides, and we will be glad indeed to lend them wherever they may be put to use.

We have put a price of 40c on the pamphlet to cover printing cost and mailing. Our purpose is not so much the matter of income, as the price does not cover the actual cost, but to prevent waste and lack of appreciation, which usually attends indiscriminate free distribution.

We have also put a rental price on the slides to cover expenses of handling and to insure prompt return, but where funds are not available to pay rental charge we will loan the slides without rental fee.

We want all of those who may be in a position to present the subject of "Conservation of Vision” by means of illustrated lectures, to know that the slides and lecture material are available. Address Times Building, New York City.

The State of Missouri is making a strenuous effort to have its school grounds enlarged, improved and suitably equipped.

According to the records in the office of the State Superintendent of Schools one hundred and five high schools have been built in the State of Missouri in the last two years. Those high schools have grounds covering 499 acres, an average of four and three fourths acres per high school.
603

In the “Milwaukee News” of April 9th we find the following: Protest against orders combining the fifteen minutes recess period and the thirty minute period for physical training, as required under state law for pupils in the Milwaukee schools effective Monday, was filed with the board of school directors Tuesday by the Milwaukee Teachers’ association.

The teachers asked that the orders tbe held in abeyance, until the directors could ascertain whether such action was for the benefit of children. The matter, however, was not disposed of by the board, being referred to committee.

The teachers hold that the law requiring thirty minutes of physical training does not contemplate abolition of the recess period, which means free play for the child and a rest peripd for teachers. Under the new rule, which calls for thirty minutes of physical training, teachers would lose their recess period.

Among the resolutions adopted by the Texas Congress of Mothers and Parent-Teachers Associations was one favoring the making of physical education a part of the training work in public schools and the incorporation of mass athletics into the present system of schools.

In the “Christian Science Monitor” of March 23rd we find the following statement that should be of interest to our readers.

Another step in the establishment of the Sportsmanship Brotherhood, as a means of fostering international good will, is to be taken Monday night at the Somerset Club when the chairman of the various committees, the personnel of which has not yet been selected, will meet to consider an organized approach to the subject.

The Sportsmanship Brotherhood is the expression of an idea brought to the United States by Capt. Percy Redfem Creed, British oigaqizer, sportsman and writer, and sponsored by John B. Bowditch of Boston, who, joined by a score or more of prominent Boston men, has set about to put in motion a constructive force which gives promise of spreading around the world.

On the theory that the cleani, character-building ethics of sports and games will build up a freemasomy of sportsmanship if widely indulged in by the people of all nations, and that such a freemasonry will provide a basis on which men can meet and agree, even in political matters, the sponsors of the brotherhood have already held one meeting of which chairmen were appointed to direct the various branches of activity. Organizations of all kinds, boys and girls clubs, schools and colleges have been covered in the naming of these chairmen.

One of the most important phases of this work, one on which the success of the enterprise depends to a considerable extent, is that of teaching sportsmanship in the schools. Carl L. Schrader, supervisor physical education in the State Department of Education is the man selected to deal with this phase.

Digitized by

Google
604

Interviewed by a representative of The Christian Science Monitor, Mr. Schrader was warm in his support of the idea but sought to make clear some points on which he said it was easy to become confused. “One might get the idea that sportsmanship never had been taught in the schools,” he said. "We have always tried to teach sportsmanship as a matter of character building so there is nothing so new in that. What is new and compelling about it is that if carried far enough it actually does seem to present a means of arriving at more harmonious international relationships.

"Furthermore, we must not confuse this with physical training. Physical training is only a part of it. Physical training, for example, may turn out a technically good ball player, boxer, hurdler or runner. But if it fails to develop a sportsmanship which removes sting from defeat and gloating from victory, the right results have not been achieved.

“When the individual or team attaches such importance to victory that after having made a good fight ana lost they leave the scene of the contest with heads hanging, and dejected, there is something wrong, in my opinion.”

Nothing very definite with respect to the brotherhood has yet been accomplished, but Mr Schrader thought that with respect to the schools, it might be deemed advisable to award diplomas in sportsmanship. Another idea he suggessted was that in awarding athletic letters and numerals it might be well to take into consideration the general sportsmanship of the athlete instead of; making the award on strictly technical prowess These are some of the questions that will be taken up later.

From the New York Herald-Tribune we learn that Henri Bergson’s Philosophy, “Creative Evolution,” had its initial portrayal May 7 through interpretative dance in a festival at Teachers’ College, Columbia University, performed by students of physical education. In their festival the dancers introduced rythmic wrestling as one of the new and lively arts.

Another number on the program was “Green,” a dance expression of color, interpreting a musical delineation of green. The festival used “Cassim in the Cave,” and "The Marble King,” from the Arabian Nights. There was “Rumor,” from the Aeneid and “Laocoon.” From Parsifal the Holy Grail scene was used.

The performance was given as an experiment under the direction of Miss Agnes L. Marsh, instructor in physical education at Teachers’ College, who has started a dance movement which aims to do for the dance what the Little Theatre movement has done for the drama. The festival was to demonstrate the place of the dance in education. Interpretations of painting, history, mythology, religion and philosophy were given in solo and group performances by twenty-three students.

Physical education received a good bit of attention at the last conference of the Massachusetts superintendents of schools. The Boston “Traveler” in reporting upon the meeting says:

Digitized by v^-ooQle
• 605

“Probably the most interesting part of the report was that given over to the progress in physical education and health of pupils in the public schools of the state.

According to the report of the committee, “no movement in education has, during the last half century, made such rapid progress as has health and physical education in the last five years.”

• “Since the enactment of the law requiring all towns to employ a school nurse in 1921, 99 per cent, of the school children of the commonwealth have come under the school musing service.”

Teachers’ salaries, says the report are not increasing so rapidly as was the case a few years ago. The report goes on to say that many towns and cities are, however, adopting salary scales that mean annual increase in the budgets for salaries for several years to come. These new scales, according to the report, also mean that the towns or cities in question will be able to have trained, experienced teachers capable of rendering a high type of service to the community they serve.

In the report the work of a few towns and several cities is reviewed as being typical of the progress of physical education. Significant points are brought out and the work of the school physician, muse and teachers of physical education are carefully summarized.

Bulletin 1121 of the playground and recreation association of America telling of the new offer of the Harmon Foundation to expend $10,000 in contributions toward the purchase of recreation sites in growing communities may have given the impression that the offer applies only to cities which have heretofore had no playgrounds.

This is not the case, as a recent communication from the Harmon Foundation indicates:

“The offer is restricted to towns in which the initial step in securing the specific playground space for which assistance is asked under this offer has been inaugurated since January 1, 1925, and to those towns which applied for but failed to receive appropriations under the offer to give fifty playground sites in 1924.

In the light of this interpretation it is clear that the offer applies to cities which have hitherto had playgrounds as well as to those just initiating the movement.

Bad weather and wet feet are not to blame for colds. The lack of relationship between colds and the weather is demonstrated by a recent survey of the U. S. Public Health Service, commented on by Malcolm MacDonald in the Popular Science Monthly for April.

Each of us, on the average, suffers from 3.7 colds each year. October is the worst month of the year for colds and January

Digitized by

Google
606 .

the next greatest offender. From January on to June, the survey shows, respiratory disorders gradually lessen.

Persons in Massachusetts, California, Louisiana, Illinois and Montana seem to have colds at the same season, climate notwithstanding.

What, then, is the cause of colds? It is generally known now that colds are caused by a germ and that they are highly contagious. However, the U. S. Public Health Service survey indicates that there is no exchange of infection among various parts of the country such as Arizona and New York, where persons have attacks simultaneously.

If one is in the path of a lusty sneeze, he is more likely to catch cold than if he is exposed to severe weather or gets his feet wet, says Popular Science. Indoor workers are more likely to catch cold than those who, like the telephone linemen, work in the open air. The lineman, however, if subjected to the continued weakening effects of extreme exposure, becomes more susceptible to the much graver menace of pneumonia.

Four ways to avoid a cold are to get plenty of sleep in a well ventilated room, take a cold dip and then a brisk rub in the morning, avoid overeating and take vigorous outdoor exercise daily.— Hygeia.

Fully one half of the persons with pimples, or acne, who come to him for treatment are rapid eaters, says Dr. Harvey P. Towle, a Boston physician, in writing for the March Hospital Social Service on "Diet in Diseases of the Skin." •

In many cases of red, blotchy rashes over the face and body, rapid eating and the consequent overburdening of the digestion seem to play a large part in the causation, Dr. Towle declares.

If we overburden the digestion in any way, we are apt to set up a reflex disturbance in the skm. One form of burden is caused by food which is not easily digested; that is, the quality of the food. This form of overburdening is less common than that due to imperfect mastication and the accompanying habit of washing the food down whole. Such persons habitually overeat and are more prone than others to skin diseases. — Hygeia.

The present tendency toward using high school students as assistant coaches in the department of physical education offers some relief for the very much overworked athletic directors. In Ottawa, Canada, the system called "Mass Athletics" prevails. It includes 17 sports in its program. All students take some part in athletics. When a student is able to qualify in 10 of these he becomes an honorary coach.

Digitized by ^ooQle
607

Book Reviews

“Education Through Physical Education'” by Agnes R. Wayman. 356 pages. 6 by 9 inches. Price $4.00. Published by Lea and Febiger, Philadelphia.

In this book Miss Wayman, who is head of the department of physical education in Barnard College, Columbia University has gathered much valuable material, arranged and presented as she says “from a woman’s point of view.” In the preface the statement also is made that “the book represents a reaction against the man-made athletic world.”

Just why the author says that her book represents the woman’s viewpoint is not clear. To me it represents the viewpoint of every man or woman with enough experience to make his or her views worth anything.

It is to be hoped that a reprint will help to eliminate errors and inaccuracies. One wonders why the oldest association devoted to the furtherance of the ideals relating to the type of work Miss Wayman stands for was omitted under “Organizations dealing with some or all phases of Physical Education,” namely the “Turners”.

The book is recommended to all teachers or administrators in need of a sane guide.	—William	A. Stecher.

“Cures” (The Story of Cures That Fail), James J Walsh

M.	D. Cloth bound, 6” x 9”—284 pages. Published 1924 by D. Appleton and Company, New York. Price $2.00.

A book capable of tearing up some of the roots of our superstitions and pet fancies is this one of Dr. Walsh’s. Without fear or favor he exposes frankly all the “cures” from the ancient past to the enlightened present. If there are any he missed exposing it is probably due to insufficient data and lack of space.

Any layman reading this volume may expect to be shocked out of at least one of his coddled beliefs. Not that Dr Walsh is a therapeutic agnostic, but rather an able defender of temperate, hygienic, Nature-aiding allopathy. He seems to be a broadminded “old school” physician with a “new school” abhorrence for indiscriminate drug prescribing. He recognizes only a few specifics and a half dozen or so auxiliaries for health reaction against disease. These drugs (he says) are one of the most cherished inheritances of the race’s experience down the ages.

It is the writer’s opinion that the majority of the present day practitioners of allopathy would benefit (and incidentally their patient alsb) by imbibing some of the above wisdom. Nature is kind if you give her half a chance, but most fools insist on a prescription when the only benefit accrues to the pharmacist.

Undoubtedly there is favorable mental reaction accompanying the taking of useless medicine and on this temporary relief

Digitized by

Google
608

due to a psycho-neural "jag" hangs the success of many “cures”.

Drug cures, personal - healers, patent medicines, magnetic cures, hypnotism, and mysticism are all weighed m the balance of cold science and found wanting.

Religious miracles of healing, Mrs. Eddy, Still's Osteopathy, Palmer’s Chiropractic, Coue’s Auto-Suggestion, and even Freud, Jung and Compiany’s Psycho-Analysis are considered and given a rather fair treatment, merit being awarded where deserved.

A dandy book to start an argument and one which will never achieve universal acceptance.— H.L. Conrad.

T H L E T I C Q

EMANUEL HAUG, New York Cityj^

NATIONAL GYMNASTIC CHAMPIONSHIP

Saturday evening, April 11, the annual A. A. U. Gymnastic Championships were held in Progress Hall, Brooklyn, N. Y. Owing to the extensive program several events were run off in the afternoon at the New York Turn Verein.

The number of competitors was the largest ever known at a gymnastic meet. That the meet was well advertised is evidenced by the number of clubs represented. Among those present were: D. A. Sokol Gym. Assn., N. Y.; New York Turn Verein; Passaic,

N.	J. Turn Verein; American Gymnastic Union College, Indianapolis; Los Angeles A. C.; Princeton University; Y. M. C. A. College, Springfield; National Turn Verein, Newark, N. J.; Swiss Turn Verein, West Hoboken, N. J.; University of Pennsylvania; Philadelphia Turngemeinde; Norwegian Turn Verein, N. Y.; Naval Academy; Turn Verein Vorwaerts, Waterbury, Conn.; Bohemian Gym. Assn. Sokol, N. Y.; New York A. C.; Baltimore A. C.; Wm. Penn Charter School, Philadelphia.

The apparatus work was far beyond the usual grade seen at this meet. Competition was keen and the scoring very close as can be seen by the following score sheets.

Los Angeles with its two representatives won the trophy. In the following tables the points made in each event will be found, also their distribution, as given by the different judges.

Calisthenics

1.	E. Preiss, American Gymnastic Union, Indianapolis. 286 points

2.	W. Meyer, Unattached..............................285	points

3.	A. Jochim, Swiss Turn Verein, West Hoboken, N. J.....284 points

4.	P. W. Krempel, Los Angeles A. C...................283	points

12 Entries...................11 Competitors.

Side Horse

Champion: Joseph B. Richter, D. A. Sokol Gym, Assn. New York.

1.	C. Cremer, New York A. C...:...........*........572;5	points

Digitized by

Google
609

2.	J. Richter, D. A. Sokol Gym. Assn. N. Y............549	points

3.	E. Preiss, American Gymnastic Union, Indianapolis. .547 points

4.	P. W. Krempel, Los Angeles A. C...................540	points

23 Entries...................21	Competitors.

Long Horse

Champion: Max Wanderer, Philadelphia Tumgemeinde.

1.	F. Berg, Norwegian Turn Verein, New York..........566 points

2.	F. Kriz, Bohemian Gym, Soc., N. Y.................557	points

3.	M. Wanderer, Philadelphia Turn Gemeinde...........552	points

4.	A. Zink, New York Turn Verein.................... 538	points

E. Presis, American Gymnastic Union, Indianapolis... 538 points B. Jorgenson, Norwegian Turn Society, N. Y....... 538 points

18 Entries................ 18	Competitors.

Horizontal Bar

Champion: Frank Kriz, Bohemian Gym, Assn. Sokol, New York.

1.	C. Rottman, New York Turn Verein..................574	points

2.	A. Jochim, Swiss Turn Verein, West Hoboken, N. J..567 points

3.	E. Preiss, American Gymnastic Union, Indianapolis, 566 points

4.	B. Jorgensen, Norwegian Turn Society, New York...564 points

14 Entries.........................15	Competitors.

Parallel Bars

Champion: Walter Meyer, New York Turn Verein.

1.	W. Meyer, Unattached................................574	points

2.	A. Jochim, Swiss Turn Verein, West Hoboken, N. J.567 points

3. P. W. Krempel, Los Angeles A. C........................523 points

4. F. Berg, Norwegian Turn Verein, N. Y...................520 points

18 Entries.......................19	Competitors.

Flying Rings Champion: E. Kremla, Bronx, N. Y., Union Y. M. C. A.

1.	P. W. Krempel, Los Angeles A. C.......................550 points

2.	M. Kraemer, University of Pennsylvania..............536	points

3.	0. Greilieh, National Turn Verein, N. Y...............530 points

4.	A. Jochim, Swiss Turn Verein, West Hoboken, N. J.517 points

19 Entries...........................17 Competitors.

Rope Climb

Record—25 feet—6 2-5 sec. made by Edw. Kunath, Anchor A. C. Champion: J. T. Andreasen, Norwegian Turn Verein, N. Y.

1.	M. Kraemer, University of Pennsylvania ...............7	4-5	sec.

2.	A.	J. Klatt, Philadelphia Tumgemeinde................8	3-5	sec.

3.	J. T. Andreasen, Norwegian Turn Verein, N. Y.....8	4-5	sec.

4.	D.	W. Goetman, University of Pennsylvania............9	2-5	sec.

7 Entries.............................7 Competitors.

Tumbling

Champion: Joseph F. Dunn, New York A .C.

1.	D. Sharpe, Los Angeles A. C...........................555 points

2.	W. Herman, Wm. Penn Charter School,

Philadelphia.....................................  525	points

3.	K. Atha, Unattached...................................475 points

4.	P. Simonson, Unattached...............................435 points

7 Entries ....................   .....4	Competitors.

Digitized by

Google
610

Indian Clubs

Champion: Ray W. Dutcher, New York 4. C

1.	R. W. Eutther, New York A. C.	275 points

2.	A. J. McLcnald, Unattached	262.5points

3.	M. Ande:scn, Ealtimore A. C.	261.5 points

4.	C. W. F. Hahner, Princeton University	259.5 points

5	Entries.........................5	Competitors.

All Around Championship

Champion: Frank Kriz, Bohemian Cvm. Assn. Sokol, N. Y.

1.	A. Jochim, Swiss Turn Verein, West Hoboken, N. J.

2991 points

2.	W. Meyer, Unattached	2947	points

3.	E. Preiss, A n ericr.n Gymnastic Union, Indiapolis2912 points

4.	P. W. Krempel, Los. Angeles A. C.	2900	points

12 Entries......................11	Competitors

Point Trophy

Won by: Los Angeles A. C.	14	points

2. Swiss Turn Verein, West Hoboken, N. J. 12 points

3. New York A. C.	10	points

4.	University rf Pennsylvania	9	points

Calisthenics				
E. Preiss		96	98	92	286
W. Meyer. 			97	96	92	285
A. Jochim		94	95	95	284
P. W. Krempel _.	98	100	85	283
B. Jorgenson		92	97	85	274
C. Winter		93	96	85	274
C. Rottman		92	96	85	273
J. T. Andreasen.	88	92	80	260
J. Mais		88	95	75	258
F. Safanda		85	89	70	244
H. Price		69	88	70	227

Side Horse

C.	Cremer...	.196 183 193 5	572 5
J.	Richter._.	.190 185 174	549
E.	Preiss		_.190 184 173	547
P.	W. Krempel. 185 175 180		540
A.	Jochim. _ _	.178 178 167	523
A.	Zink		.188 166 166	520
F.	Safanda...	..173 177 164	514
W. Meyer			.175 174 162 5	511 5
C.	Rottman..	.175 174 162	511
P.	Richter		.169 174 158 5	501 5
B.	Jorgenson.	..175 166 157	498
J.	Sadlo		.150 172 159	481
C.	Hesch		.164 159 156 5	479 5
B.	Waldin		.150 172 156 5	478 5

J. Mais_________165	158	148	471

Clapp _________144	144	150	438

C. Winter.......145	132	125	402

J. T. Andreasen 140 136 125 5 401 5

F.	Buerkle_____119	133	122	374

G. Cremer_____116 120 135 5 371 5

H. Price________114 94 92 5 300 5

Long Horse

F.	Berg		.194	180	192	566
F.	Kriz	...	.198	181	178	557
M	. Wanderer..	.191	175	186	552
A.	Zink		.179	176	183	538
E.	Preiss		.186	176	176	538
B.	Jorgenson _ _	190	167	lfel	538
C.	Rottman		.185	175	177	537
A.	Jochim		.177	174	182	533
W.	Meyer		179	167	179	525
F.	Safanda		.176	161	174	511
J.	Mais		174	165	165	504
P.	W. Krempel. 168		156	152	476
C.	Winter		172	132	167	471
R.	Kraft		172	131	157	460
J.	T. Andreasen 166		139	148	453
T.	Almquist. _.	172	112	156	440
H.	Price		159	140	132	431
E.	Garpestad..	, 86	64	75	225

(Only one exercise).

Digitized by

Google
611

Details relative to the points scored F. Burekle.......... 73	61	70204

Horizontal Bar	(Only	One	Exercise)

c.	Rottman.. _	.190 194		190 574		Flying tings			
A.	Jochim		.191	193	183 567		P. W. Krempel. .185	192	173	550
E.	Preiss		.187	189	190 566		M. Kraemer	177	190	169	536
B.	Jorgenson _.	.191	185	188 564		O. Greilich	179	181	170	630
W.	. Meyer	:	186 186 6 183 664 6				A. Jochim	181	183	153	517
P.	W. Krempel.184 164			180 528		G. Gulack	170	186	146	501
B.	Waldin		177 1C4 5 181			522 5	H. Price	167	170	160	497
J.	Mais		177 160 5		173	510 5	W. Meyer	173	187	137	497
F.	Safanda		.173 1€4		159 496		B. Jorgensen	174	176	137	487
F.	Buerkle		.164 156		166 486		A. Pfetsch	174	172	140	486
J.	T. Andreasen 174 160			158 482		C. Rottman	175	172	138	485
C.	Winter		.165 160		146 461		J. Mais	165	168	138	471
H.	Price		.152 151		147 460		F. Biele	164	176	128	468
O.	Gordon		.130 121		136 387		E. Preiss	159	172	132	463
J.	McCandles8_150		78	127 355		F. Safanda	169	164	122	456
	Parallel		Bars			J. T. Andreasen.146	177	123	446
W	Meyer		183	200	191	574	C. Winter	163	161	119	443
A.	Jochim.....	.187	190	190	567	A. J. Bardo	-130	153	103	386
P.	W. Krempel. 180		175	168	523	Rope Climbing			
F.	Berg		172	178	170	520	M. Kraemer		__7	4-5	sec.
E.	Preiss		.'175	161	176	512	A. Klatt		..8	3-5	sec.
C.	Winter		.162	156	174	492	J. T. Andreasen...	8	4-5	sec.
G.	Gulhck		.167	168	154	489	D. W. Goetman...	.. 9	2-5	sec.
J.	Mais.. 		156	151	160	467	Tumbling			
B.	Jorgenson..	.144	163	156	463	D. Sharpe	181	180	194	555
B.	Waldin		.147	141	160	448	W. Herman ...173	176	176	525
F.	Safanda		155	151	140	446	K. Atha	159	160	156	475
H.	Price		.150	139	133	422	P. Simonson.. .148	135	152	435
P.	Richter		.144	114	143	401	Indian Clubs			
J.	T. Andreasen 134		124	130	388	R. W. Dutch er_ 85	95	95	275
J.	Kumazawa.	.133	113	140	386	A. J. McDonald 84 5 88		90 262 5	
O.	Gordon		.119	92	133	344	M. Anderson...85 5 96		80 261 5	
C.	Rottman		.118	105	113	336	C. H. Hahner. .81 5 93		85 259 5	
J.	McCandless.103		80	80	263	H. S. Schneider 79 82		70	231

ALL AROUND

	Rings	Calis-  thenics	Side  Horse	Long  Horse	Hor  Bar	Par  Bars	Total
A. Jochim	517	284	523	533	567	567	2991
W. Meyer	497	285	511.5	525	554.5	574	2947
E. Preiss	463	286	547	538	566	512	2912
P. W. Krempel	550	283	540	476	528	523	2900
B. Jorgenson	487	274	498	538	564	463	2824
C. Rottman	485	273	511	537	574	336	2716
J. Mais	471	258	471	504	510.5	467	2681.5
F. Safanda	456	244	614	611	496	446	2666
C. Winter	443	274	402	471	461	492	2543
J. T. Andreasen	446	260	401.5	453	482	388	2430.5
H. Price	497	227	300.5	431	450	422	2327.5
				Digitized by CjOO^Ic			
BIOLOGY AND MORALS

Dr. J. M. Verweyen, Bonn, Germany

Translated fram “Physical Educati” by Dr. D. V. Besser.

The development of the science of biology has, to a marked degree, influenced the intellectual life of the nineteenth century. The application of the findings of Biology plays an important part in the progress of civilization. It embraces in this respect the association of biology with morality. Both are not on the same level, because they rest upon different conceptions. One deals with the comprehensiveness of existence, the other with the capability of being governed by a sense of right and wrong. Without doubt certain biological facts influence moral action. In this category belongs the influence of air and light, respiration, bodily exercises and nourishment. Life means action; proper rhythmical respiration promotes and heightens the feeling of well being, as all experienced sportsmen and singers can confirm. In Ibsen’s drama:	“The	People’s	Enemy,”	Dr.	Stockman	as a leader

in the cast says: "In a house that is not ventilated and swept daily, human beings, in several years, lose the ability to act and think morally. Lack of oxygen enervates nerve force and weakens one’s conscience.” The late Dr. Karl Schleich is credited with the expression: “Well ventilated rooms appear to have something holy. Impure air should be considered as a moral iniquity, to which one should not be exposed.” The mere presence of light, air and sunshine, as well as a display of muscle power does not of itself guarantee nobleness of the soul. They all can serve moral as well as sinister purposes. But if an ethical problem is involved, fresh air, sunshine and vigor can strengthen morality.* * * *

In the case of sport, biology points to certain laws through which the favorable development of bodily growth and vigor is stimulated. In consequence of this, sport may be considered as a preliminary step in moral action. Similar deductions may be drawn from biological facts relating to nutrition. Malnutrition causes excessive irritation of the nerves, which leads from violent excitation to quiet suffering. While an exhausted body may show a low capacity for action, this fact does not prevent the existence of good intentions and the will power to arouse them. A physically sick man in this respect can surpass one of normal health, so long as his nerve cqlls are all well nourished.

Digitized by LjOOQie
613

Over-dieting results ip nerve strain, which in turn develops harshness, impetuosity, indiscretion and general feverishness. A weak stomach is according to Zarathustra, the “Father of Distress.” The underlying cause may be malnutrition or overfeeding. An undefined state of mind is liable to endanger morals by producing a state of unhappiness and sullenness. Proper nourishment encourages highest physical and mental development. It causes a harmonious cooperation of bodily functions and by comfort and good health it furnishes the base for wholesome activities. That an excessive meat diet is not the best medium to promote a balance of physical and mental power seems to be generally admitted. The fruit diet has, as a health measure, many supporters. Its advocates stress the fact that the body easily assimilates the acids and sugars contained in fruits and thpt the immediate changes of the sugar found in grapes and figs, when absorbed by the blood, have an excellent stimulating influence for invigorating the body. * *	*	* The foregoing facts admit the possibility of bodily

soundness without moral suasion. They imply a certain independence of morality from biology.* * *

Biological facts of purely bodily nature reflect a many-sided significance for morality. They demand in the name of ethips, theoretical consideration and practical care. One who purposely neglects or who treats bodily development with contempt, belongs, from an ethical point, to a lower type than the one who cultivates all around physical attainments. It ip objectionable, for moral and biological reasons, without sufficient cause to endanger the welfare of a fellow-creature to any disease no matter how trifling it may be,* *	*	*

Finally every moral function is presumed to be accompanied by a certain degree of bodily well-being. In cases of unconsciousness ethical values can neither be comprehended nor realized. *	*

Life's peculiar laws guide apd determine moral willingness. Noble aipis remain morally valuable even if they lead to death or destruction. The progress of the human race, however, does not only depend on moral deeds, good intentipns and noble hearts, it requires also brainy heads, and finally, life’s laws are not affect-ted by the social standing *of a person. If parties touch an electric wire, they receive a shock; it makes no difference if they are millionaires or paupers. *	*	*

Life should culminate in vigor, energy and happiness. A true moral individual is contented and satisfied. His cheerfulness is the expression of having attained the highest point of happiness.

Translations by Dr. D. V. Besser, Philadelphia.

Under the auspices of the Prussian Government a meeting was held at Berlin to which the delegates of the State Advisory Council were invited to discuss the newly enacted physical education law for secondary schools in Prussia.

A number of prominent educators and physicians from Austria and Switzerland were present by special request. Secretary

Google
614

Dr. Boelitz presided. In his address to the delegates he declared that the old law allotted 3 hours weekly for physical training, while the new law provides for 4 hours. He said it is his intention to require from each newly appointed teacher to a secondary school (irrespective of the department in which he is to teach) a certificate from a university showing that he had successfully completed a course in physical training. Dr. Diem, one of the delegates, emphasized that the State should provide one hour daily for physical work.

The management of the monthly magazine for "Gymnastics, Play and Sport,” Berlin, Germany, announces that the magazine will hereafter appear semi-monthly in a more elaborate style and larger size under the title “Physical Education.” The character of the publication will remain the same.

In Germany the year 1925 seems to have become a record year for important decisions in regard to bodily training for women. A difference of opinion exists about the proper method for effectively training the female body. The German Gymnastic Union, the largest of its kind, has arranged for a convention in June at Leipsic to discuss the matter and to bring the problem nearer its solution. For the same purpose a series of meetings will be held in Berlin under the auspices of the Federation of Women.

Lectures by teachers of Physical Education and by prominent physicians will augment the discussions of both conventions in addition to practical demonstrations of physical training of women. It is not expected that a final decision will be reached, but the way should be paved for further deliberations.

EPARTMENT OF EDUCATIONAL HYGIEN

LAWRENCE AUGUSTUS AVERILL

"The Prevention of Disease in the Individual.” By

Kenelm Winslow. Philadelphia, Saunders, 1923. 427 pp. Second edition, thoroughly revised.

“No sooner is a medical book born than it is dead,” says Dr. Winslow in his preface to the second edition of this well-known book. The enormous professional experience with influenza since the fatal fall of 1918 has led to the writing over in toto of the section on that subject and the addition of a wholly new one on pneumonia, the direct cause of all the deaths from influenza. The recent discover that asthma and hay fever are due to the action on sensitive individuals of proteid substances in pollen of plants or in emanations from animals, or in products of bacterial growth in the body, has led the author to include new sections on these diseases. Goitre is also introduced in a new section, as is also diabetes and the treatment of it by insulin. New materials are presented on

Digitized by

Google
615

the relation of focal infections to general diseases, on the treatment of hookworm, on the importance of vitamins in the diet, etc. In addition most of the topics in the first edition have been amplified, deleted or revised in accordance with the latest facts developed by investigation and experience.

"How is Your Heart?” By S. Calvin Smith. New York, Boni and Liveright, 1924. 208 pp.

Here is an excellent popular treatise on the general subject of heart disease, quite appropriately dedicated by the author to his wife "who stimulated my first and abiding interest in hearts”(!) The style is calculated to captivate the interest of the lay reader and entice him to read on and on until he has read the book through. We wish it might be read by every middle-aged person in the land. In a day when deaths from heart trouble throughout the registration area of the United States head the list of all causes of de-cedence, it is timely indeed to place in the hands of men and women a simple, interestingly written and sane popular treatise on the general subject. The running marginal comments are quite as interesting as the body of the book itself. Chapter headings include the following: Present day conventions of heart disease; The heart in action; How hearts are hurt; Faulty habits; Over eating; The abuse and disuse of physical exercise; Perilous stuff which weighs upon the heart; Heart loads imposed by disease past and present; The teeth versus the heart; The tonsil question; Early heart signs that should take you to your doctor; How to live when damage is already done; etc., etc. Says Dr. Smith: “When the business man arrives at the office building, a bank of elevators saves him the physical exertion of climbing the stairs. Once seated at the desk, office girls and messenger boys furnish the feet for the Brains of Business. An Interdepartment telephone may further save steps for the modem Prometheus—chained to the rocks of business, while the vultures of physical inactivity tear at his entrails. Perhaps the office boy's legs will even be requisitioned to fetch a sandwich and a bottle of milk to the desk for luncheon, saving the executive still further exertion and minutes—minutes for business. ‘Exercise?’ ask him. Of course he exercises; he plays tennis and golf! Last summer’s tennis does not furnish him today’s necessary exercise nor does next Sunday's golf supply today’s physical needs. . . ”

"Health Public and Personal.” By Ralph E. Blount. New York, Allyn and Bacon, 1922. 316 pp. ill.

This book aims to promote good health in individuals and in communities. To keep healthy in all situations of our complicated society to-day requires a clear understanding of the normal activities of the human body. For this reason the book starts with a brief explanation of the workings of the vital machine. The functions of the body are then taken up in greater detail and are related to the life of the community. Rules of conduct for health fql living are developed and applied, with special emphasis on the

Google
616

reasons for these rules. Ancient traditions of doubtful value are discarded and all precepts are modem and scientific. The topics are made practical and interesting by simple treatment and by copious illustrations and searching questions. These latter are put not at the ends of chapters, but after each topic, so as to assure a mastery of the subject in hand, before the pupil proceeds. Every effort has been made to furnish material which will enable the pupil to safeguard his own and the community's health; yet the importance of the physician is re-cognized and consultation with him is urged in all but the very simplest cases of illness. The development of civic spirit is one of the definite aims of this book. The dependence of community health upon personal health is constantly emphasized and the importance of quarantine and of precautions against contagion is constantly brought out.

“Principles of Clothing Selection.” By Helen Goodrich Buttrick.

New York, Macmillan, 1923. xii—185 pp., ill.

This book is designed as a textbook for high-school courses in clothing and designing of costumery. It should be also of value to the woman who wishes to acquire a knowledge of the fundamental principles of clothing selection, but who has no opportunity for class mstruction. The subject matter of the volume falls under three heads: the principles of design and color and a study of their application to different types of individual; the principles of hygiene that influence clothing selection; and an explanation of the economic factors that affect the cost and quality of clothing. The aim of the book is to aid in developing a new viewpoint that will lead women to select clothing on the basis of its asthetic, hygienic, and economic values rather than on the basis of its conformity to fashion. This will help to establish saner standards of dress than now prevail and thus be a contribution to the development of the ideal American home.

“A Manual of Corrective Gymnastics.” By Louisa C. Lippitt.

New York, Macmillan, 1923. vii—249 pp., ill.

The author of this book, the Director of Corrective Gymnastics for Girls in the University of Wisconsin, has presented in it a series of exercises for the many types of defects ordinarily treated in a corrective gymnasium. She was led to do this partly because many instructors in physical education were trained before the demand for corrective gymnastics became so universal as it at present is, and hence feel the need of a helpful and suggestive text along this line, and partly because it has been her experience that many teachers are in need of suggestions as to the best methods of handling corrective work with large groups. Chapter headings include: Scope of Corrective Gymnastics; Giving Physical Examinations and Assigning Students to Classes, Corrective Exer-

Digitized by

Google
617

cises in Classes and with Individuals; Correct Exercises for Small Children and Older People; Posture Exercises; Foot Exercises; Viceroptosis and Constipation; Breathing Exercises; Exercises to Improve Coordination and Balance; Exercises for Reducing Weight etc., etc.

“Safety First For School and Home.” By Harriet E. Beard. New York, Macmillan, 1924. 223 pp.

The author, who is director of Safety Education in the Public Schools of Detroit, Mich., tells us in her foreword that in the United States more than 6 per cent of all deaths that occur are violent deaths; that is, that out of every 100 persons who die annually in our country 6 lose their lives because some one was careless. 77,-118 soldiers of America lost their lives in Europe during the World War (nineteen months.) In the twelve months of 1920 there were reported in the Registration Area of the U. S. 68,697 violent deaths, excluding suicide—a considerably higher ratio than those killed on the field of battle. The saying that “accidents will happen,” the author insists, has become too much a part of the American creed. “Accidents will not happen when there is a deeper realization of the importance of safety and where people are trained to be careful.” Education is conceived as the first step toward eliminating accidents in factories, streets and homes. The aim of this book is to present the principles that underlie the prevention of accidents in our streets and homes, to offer some practical suggestions for remedying conditions that cause accidental injuries and deaths, and for the systematic instruction and training of children during the years when their habits are being formed. Part one deals with safety education in the home; Part two with safety education in the school. Included in the latter are chapters on objectives and methods; safety activities of pupils, and one on the teaching of safety in each of the eight grades. The book should prove helpful and suggestive to all teachers of children.

“Graded Outlines in Hygiene.” By Walter Frank Cobb. Yonkers, World Book Company, 1924.	387	pp.	Book	II

Book II in this series by Dr. Cobb, who is director of the Department of Physical Education and Hygiene of the Baltimore Board of Education, aims to place before elementary school teachers further suggestions for developing a health program. It will be recalled that Book I appeared several years ago, and covered the teaching of hygiene in the first three grades. The present volume follows the general plan of its predecessor, covering the hygiene work for grades four, five and six. The writer has endeavored to include in the book such information, suggestions, devices and methods as have been found of special value to him in working with teachers. While there may doubtless be teachers who will prefer to use this material somewhat as they would use a crutch, it is rather the purpose of the author to develop the outlines presented in such a way that they will serve more as a vehicle for the teacher who is eager to carry a larger load and de-

Digitized by

Google
618

velop her health program far beyond its p^sent s’ope. Mirh is made throughout the book of the correlation idea, the author believing that helpfulness as well as healthfulness ought to be the goal of all health education. The emphasis is wisely placed on health rather than disease.

“The Normal Mind." By William H. Burnham. New York, Appleton, 1924. 702 pp.

Without question this represents the outstanding work in the English language on the general subject of mental hygiene. One is impressed and well nigh bewildered by the more than 550 titles in the bibliographies which appear at the end of each chapter, carefully chosen from European as well as English and American sources. The whole conception of the book turns upon the axis of the conditioned reflex, to an exposition of which something more than one hundred pages in the first half of the book are devoted specifically, while constant reference back to the conditioned reactions is made throughout the entire volume. The principles of mental hygiene are developed around this nexus. The author finds the essentials of mental health, lacking which fundamentals one “cannot be quite sound mentally and with which, apart from accident, infection, or heredity, he can have no serious mental disorder” to be three: a task, a plan and freedom. The task may be immediate and concrete, or it may be remote and idealistic: it makes no difference—task there must be to actuate and motivate every normal human life. The plan is essential in order to make the task purposive and enticing. Freedom to work out the task along the plan conceived is as essential as the task itself. Parents are chided for failing to supply these three essentials for their children and are accused of “giving their children everything whatever except the one thing that above all they need, a job.” Mothers tend to do too much for their children, and are then amazed that they can do nothing for themsqlye^ Teachers err along similar lines. The organization of society is such' that it is extremely difficult for every individual unit in its make-up to be able to work independently and freely along the line of his interest or of his job, which fact is no inconsiderable one in bringing about the diversities and frictions so commonly observed in the social group.

The attitudes with which child or adult goes about his task are of supreme importance for normal mental health, it being only through the doing of agreeable tasks spontaneously that individuals build up positive, hygienic attitudes rather than the reverse. Whenever a task is to De done, the accompanying mental states and attitudes are either adjuvant or inhibitory. Among the latter negative associations may be mentioned prejudice, fears, aversions, discomfort, hurry, crowded curricula, unpedagogical questioning, examinations, etc. Success stimulates; failure inhibits and discourages. Among the school causes of failure are mentioned and discussed at some length; lack of adequate classification and grading, overemphasis of the subject to the neglect
619

of the child, overemphasis of instruction methods, antagonisms between pupils and teachers, lack of concrete tasks, neglect of types, neglect of the individual, neglect of the exceptional, mistakes at home, confused aims, the fetish of symmetrical development, social failure, etc., etc. Applying the gospel of the task to pathological cases, the author shows interestingly that many neuroses have been entirely cured by getting the patient absorbed in some appealing task that was able to gather up and focalize his energies and ambitions. An excellent and sane critique of psychoanalysis is included in Chapter 19, while in a final chapter, entitled; Principles of Mental Hygiene, the author enumerates by way of summary a dozen or more of the important factors that condition mental health. These include attention to the present situation, orderly association, mental work, alternation of work and rest, normal reaction to feeling, an active attitude, self-control, confidence, normal social relations, adjustment to the environment, a normal sense of dependence, etc.

The teacher who takes up this book will, by reason of its comprehensiveness and size, lay it aside many times, but he will take it up again, invariably, will read it through, and then will be compelled to reread it not only with interest and even fascination, but with critical reference to the kind of teaching he himself is doing and ought to do. The mature and masterful deliberations and scientific inductions of a great teacher have an appeal and a message for us all.

“Primer of Sanitation”. By John W. Ritchie. 231 pp. 184pp.

"Primer of Hygiene.” By John W. Ritchie and Joseph S. Caldwell.

Yonkers, World Book Company, 1924. Third Revision

We are glad to see these three excellent little books revised anew and brought up to date. They have had and are certain still to have wide popularity in the elementary schools. In the original preparation of the series the matter relating to infectious diseases was placed in the volume: Primer of Sanitation, but only to a measured extent did it seem wise to attempt a division of topics between the primer of Hygiene and the Primer of Physiology. The author of the series believes that hygiene is best taught by giving a solid basis of structure and function for it, and has not hesitated to include in the last mentioned volume sufficient physiology and anatomy to give an outline knowledge of the human mechanism. At the same time attempt has been made to select for treatment from the vast field of physiology topics that have direct and vital hygienic applications. In the Ptimer of Hygiene the authors have tried to encourag the formation of habits of right living, and to assist medical supervisors by showing the importance of their work. But their chief concern has been to provide a body of authoritative information in such form that it may be used for the instruction of pupils on the more important facts and principles of hygiene.

Digitized by L^ooQle
620

*

G YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN D

MODEL EXERCISES GIVEN AT CHICAGO TURNFEST Club Swinging Drill for Men Arranged by Wm. Flotow, Deutscher Arbeiter Turnverein

Boston Mass.

Music: “Yankee Doodle”

Open order sideward.......................................8	counts

Swing clubs into position...........................1-? counts

Introduction .........................................8	counts

Rest: between 1st and 2nd group, swinging clubs

under arms ..................................16	counts

Swing clubs under arms.....................................1-2	counts

Close order to center........................................8	counts

I Group	counts

Ex.	1.	Double arm circle outward	1-2

Repeat same	3-4

Double arm circle left	5-6

Repeat same	7-8

Ex.	2.	Double arm circle inward	1-2

Repeat same	3-4

Double arm circle right	5-6

Repeat same	7-8

Ex.	3.	Double arm circle outward, and hand circle front

and rear	of	arms	1-3

Repeat same	4-6

Double arm circle to position	7-8

Ex.	4.	Double arm circle left, and hand circle front

and rear	of	arms	1-3

Repeat same	4-6

Double arm circle to position	7-8

Ex.	5.	Double arm circle inward, and hand circle front

and rear	of arms	1-3

Repeat same	4-6

Double arm circle inward to position	7-8

Ex.	6.	Double arm circle right, and hand	circle front

and rear	of	arms	1-3

Repeat same	4-6

Double arm circle right to position	7-8

Ex.	7.	Double arm circle outward	1-2

Repeat same (alternating); right leading	3-4

Double arm circle left	'	5-6

Repeat same; right leading	7-8

Ex.	8.	Double arm circle inward	1-2

Repeat same; right leading	3-4

Double arm circle right	5-6

Repeat same; left leading	7-8

Digitized by

Google
1-3

621

Ex. 9. Double arm circle outward, and hand circle front and rear of arms

Quarter arm circle, to sideward position, and hand circle front and rear of arms	4-5

Quarter arm circle outward, and hand circle front and rear of thighs	6-7

Position	8

Ex. 10. Double arm circle outward, and hand circle front

and rear of arms	1-3

Half double arm circle outward, and hand circles front and rear of thighs	4-5

Left arm circles outward and hand circle in front ofarm. Rightcompleteshandcircleinfrontofthigh	6-7

Circle right arm to position	8

Ex. 11. Repeat, exercise 10 this time Right arm circle

outward, and hand circle in front of arm, and left hand circle in front of thigh	1-8

Ex. 12. Double arm circle'inward and hand circle front and

rear of arms	1-3

Three quarter arm circle inward to sideward position, and hand circle front and rear of arms	4-6

Double arm circle inward to position	7-8

Ex. 13. Double arm circle inward and hand circle front and

rear of arms	1-3

Half double arm circle inward, hand circle front rear of thighs	4-5

Left arm circle inward to upward position, and hand circle in front of arm. Right completes hand circle in front of thigh	6-7

Circle right arm to position	8

Ex. 14. Repeat exercise 13; this time Right arm circle inward to upward position, and hand circle front of arm.

Left completes hand circle in front of thigh	1-8

Ex.	15.	Alternating hand circle outward in	front of thigh	1-4

Swing into alternating arm circle	5-8

Ex.	16.	Repeat 5-8 of exercise 15	1-4

Taper to hand circle in front of thigh	5-7

Position	8

II Group

Counts

Ex. 1. Double arm circle outward, and hand circle front

and rear of arms	1-3

Half double arm circle outward, and hand circle front and rear of thighs	4-5

Half double arm circle outward, and hand circle front and rear of arms	6-8

Ex. 2. Quarter double arm circle outward to sideward position, and hand circle front and rear of arms	1-2

Quarter double arm circle outward, and hand circle front and rear of thighs	3-4

Digitized by Google
622

Three quarter double arm circle outward, and hand circle in front and rear of arms	• 5-7

Three quarter double arm circle to position	8

Ex. 3. Double arm circle left and hand circle front and

rear of arms	1-3

Half double arm circle left and hand circle front and rear of thighs	4-6

Half double arm circle to position; right leading 7-8 Ex. 4. Follow circle left over right shoulder	1-2

Follow circle left over left shoulder	3-4

Follow circle over right shoulder in front of head, and over left shoulder to position	5-8

Ex. 5. Double arm circle inward, and hand circle front and

rear of arms	1-3

Half double arm circle inward and hand circle in front and rear of thighs	4-6

Half double arm circle inward and hand circle front and rear of arms	7-8

Ex. 6. Three quarter double arm circle inward to sideward position, and hand circle front and rear of arms 1-3 Quarter double arm circle inward to upward position and hand circle front and rear of arms	4-5

Three quarter double arm circle inward to sideward position, and hand circle front and rearof arms 6-8 Ex. 7. Double arm circle right, and hand circle front and

rear of arms	1-3

Half double a~m circle right, and hand circle front and rear of thighs	4-6

Halt double am circle to position; left leading	7-8

Ex. 8. Repeat exercise 4; this time going right	1-8

Ex. 9. Double arm circle outward, and hand circle front

and rear of arms	1-3

Quarter double arm circle to sideward position and hand circle front and rear of arms	4-5

Quarter double arm circle outward and hand circle in front and rear of thighs	6-7

Position	8

Ex. 10. Alternating hand circles outward from above,

left completes circle in front, and two in rear of arms, right circles; rear, front and rear of arm	1-3

Quarter double arm circle to sideward position, repeating same circles	4-6

Three quarter double arm circle outward to position	7-8

Ex. 11. Double arm circle outward, and hand circle front

and rear; snakes outward twice	1-7

Double arm circle outward to position	8

Ex. 12. Repeat exercse 11.

Ex. 13. Double arm circle left, and hand circle front and

rear of arms; alternating hand circles, left completes, circle in front and two in rear of arms, right circles, rear, front, and rear of arms	1-6

Digitized by {^.ooQle
623

Quarter double arm circle left to sideward position, and hand circle	outside	and	inside	of	arms	7-8

Ex. 14. Swing directly from sideward position left to horizontal alternating hand circles, traveling from left to right	1-5

Hand circles	outside	and	inside of arms	6-7

Position	8

Ex. 15. Repeat exercise 13, to the right	1-8

Ex. 16. Repeat exercise 14, travelling frc-m right to left	1-8

Note: All exercises are executed with extended arms.

The Skaters Dance by A. F. Schintz Ladies Class St. Paul Turnverein Part One (32 Meas.)

Take the Skaters position-arms crossed in front and hands joined. Slide—hop forward, both starting Rf. (1-2-3-) Step Lf forward (4-5)

Step Rf just behind Lf cutting Lf out forward (6).......2	Meas.

Repeat three times more L-R-L alternately...............6	Meas.

Lady on the left stand still for the next eight measures, turning in place to the L and helping lady on the right with her steps around

with repeating first step four times....................8	Meas.

Repeat all starting Rf again...........................16	Meas.

Part Two (32 Meas)

Six little running steps forward, keeping same position both starting Rf .................................................. 2 M.

Slide—hop obliquely forward outward two times (R-L)... .2	Meas.

Repeat all..............................................4	Meas.

Repeat the turn of figure one...........................4	Meas.

Four slide—hops obliquely forward.......................4	Meas.

Repeat all ............................................16	Meas.

Part Three (32 Meas.)

Release R hands but keep L hands joined and R arms sidewards and dance around each other as follows;

Slide—hop forward on Rf, step forward on Lf and cut Lf out with

Rf .....................................................2	Meas.

Step Lf forward raise Rf backward, bend body forward and

hold ...................................................2	Meas.

Repeat all three times more...................................12	Meas.

Repeat all with joining right hands................... 16	Meas.

Part Four (32 Meas.)

Slide, cut, leap starting forward Rf...........................2	Meas.

Repeat Lf ..............................................2	Meas.

Keeping hands joined each making 1-2 turns outward doing....

4 glides backward starting Rf in same line of direction as before 4 M.

Repeat all ............................................24	Meas.

Part Five. (32 Meas.)

Slide cut leap starting forward Rf.............................2	Meas.

Repeat Lf ..............................................2	Meas.

4	glide hops in a circle to the right.........................4	Meas.

Digitized by Google
624

.8 Meas. 16 Meas.

Repeat all but circle to the left........

Repeat all right and left................

Part Six (16 Meas.)

Release hands and Pivot turn to the outside finish turn with one

waltz step............................................. 2	Meas.

Join hands in original position and two glide hops forward... 2 Meas.

Repeat all three times more............................12	Meas.

Part Seven (32 Meas.)

Inside lady 1-2 turn right joining both hands in front.

Six step hops backward starting Rf—outside lady six swing hops

forward starting Rf, Step Rf over Lf and Tour de Jete. 8 Meas.

Repeat three times more alternately....................24	Meas.

Part Eight. (16 Meas.)

Join right hands and 3 step hops forward around each other and

pivot turn............................................. 4	Meas.

Repeat all three times more............................16	Meas.

RUSSIAN CHARACTER DANCE

By B. F. Ohm, Socialer Tumverein, Detroit MUSIC: MAZURKA FROM “COPPELIA BALLET”

I.

Introduction: Running to place and finish with a leap on R ft. close L. to R. and Point R. obliq. forw. R. hand at waist and L. in 5th. A. straight.

Double Bal-hop hop R. obliq. forw. Same L. A. in 3rd.

Pas de basque R. and L. backw. A. lateral.

Repeat all but last Pas de basque, instead, finish with 2 stamps Repeat all beginning L.

II.

Mazurka R. obliq. forw. double bal-hop R. (L. A. in 5th, and R. at waist during Maz. and 3rd. during Bal-hop) Step backw. L. R. L. and pirouette L. (A. in 2nd. and thru 5th. on pirouette finishing with R. A. in 5th. and L. hand at waist.) Repeat all L. R. L. Repeat all in sidew. direction.

III.

Interlude. Two stamps backw. R. L.

Two maz. with heel clicking R. sidw. pas de basq. and 2 stamps. Repeat L. R. L.

Interlude :-Four stamp steps backw. begin. R.

IV.

Pas de basq. R. L. forw. a leap turn R. sidw. closing with 2 stamps, 2 Maz. with heel clicking L. sidw. and double bal-hop turn L. and finish with 2 stamps. Repeat all begin. L.

V.

Begin. R. 4 backw. pas de basq, on lines of square, Maz. R. obliq. forw. and pas de basq. forw. same L.

Repeat the square and finish with, pas de basque R. and L. forw. and run in small backw. circle to R. finishing with 3 stamps. Remarks. During the Mazurkas Pas de Basque Bal-hops and stamps the arm movements are always the same. They march to place and off same way.

Digitized by uooQle