LIBRARY

University of /L.-vitanS.

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 26	FEBRUARY	1920	No.	2S5

MMbM By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ul«, ST

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.,

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, PhiL, Pa.

MRorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phils. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Uhn, Minnesota.

Entered os eecond-dae* mailer October 14,1916, at the poetoffiee at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act </ Match 8, 1879.

ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS

PHYSICAL EDUCATION—A NATIONAL NECESSITY.

By HARRY S. ESTCOURT.

The average American is possessed of a strong and smug belief that as a whole people we are rugged and virile. He contentedly pats himself on the back and points to the victories at the Olympic athletic meets and the part his fellow country-men played in the world war as proof of his contention that physically the American has no superior in the world.

It is true we have developed the greatest athletes in the world and it is also true that the stalwart American did play a wonderful and decisive part in the struggle to wipe Prussianism off the face of the globe. But when the great average is considered in a cold, truth bearing light the same American will have to confess that we are not as a people quite as rugged and virile as he wants to believe.

These who accept the average man or woman as a fairly able bodied citizen, seldom realize how far below his attainable condition of physical soundness and efficiency he is. It has been established beyond peradventure that thirty-three per cent of the men called in the first draft for men in the great war were unfit for service in the army—men in the very best years of their lives; men not broken by years of nerve racking, strenuous activity, but young men who should have been able to meet the physical demands of the highest duty a male American citizen is called upon to face.

Digitized by LjOOQle
886

Discouraging as are the figures they do not tell the whole story. Of the men accepted, thousands and thousands were soft and flabby and their condition cost millions of dollars and prolonged the duration of their necessary training many months. The great majority of the men who reached the training camps had to be taught the simplest rules of hygiene, of physical training, diet and even how to walk and breathe properly—things they should have known from boyhood.

A report of the committee on health problems of the National Council of Education states as a conservative estimate derived from many investigations in various localities that three-fourths of the

25,000,000 children in the elementary and secondary schools of our country are suffering from physical defects which are seriously impeding mental and physical development.

Government investigation covering one million workers shows an annual loss for the whole country of about 270,000,000 days on account of illness. This does not by any means reveal the degree of physical impairment. There are millions of people who do not lose a day's work on account of illness, but who work year after year physically below par—billions of days of inefficient or sub-standard work that have never been counted.

These striking figures serve to emphasize in a most convincing manner our blindness; how unjustified is our smugness, and our failure to appreciate the tremendous importance of physical education in our schools, for it is in the schools and with the children that we must begin to correct the great evil.

France and England have come to realize that physical education is a matter of national necessity. In the new education law in England, abundant provision is made for this form of education. France has a national committee on physical education, which is now studying plans for that country. Our great nation cannot afford to do less. Facing the great problems now before it, the United States cannot fail to realize that behind and beneath all human progress there must be health and bodily vigor among the people.

Physical education for the youth should be a universal matter. The educator finds that physical education is fundamental in two ways. First to insure the health and vitality which will make it possible for the individual to go out in the world and use the knowledge absorbed in the class room; and second, to insure a body with muscles and nerves trained to carry on effectively the ideals, with ideas and theoretical plans which may be developed. through mental application.

The leading elements in a course of physical education are instruction in health principles, including the inculcation of healthful habits; the organization of scientifically planned health-giving and body-building exercises, and periodic thorough-going physical examinations.. The school is, of course, the starting poiilt, for there, with our universal education requirements,- we reach practically
887

the entire population in the important years of growth and development.

A program of physical education must provide for both boys and girls and should include all children and youth between six and eighteen years. The physical upbuilding of women is of equal importance with that of men—perhaps of greater importance. 'Hie program should extend its benefits to the youth above the compulsory school age by recognition of agencies already organized for doing such work, in whole or in part, and by extension of the continuation school principle to include and secure a program of physical education for children in industry between fourteen and eighteen years of age.

For the purpose of developing an effective working program, and securing its application throughout the nation, the United States Commissioner of Education appointed a national committee on physical education composed of leading educators throughout the country. This committee requested the Playground and Recreation Association of America to establish a physical education service. In answer to this request, the National Physical Education Service, which has headquarters in Washington, is spreading throughout the country the best thoughts of the leaders in the field of education. The Service also stimulates Federal and State legislation for compulsory physical education and gives every possible assistance to the states in planning and securing the passage of such legislation. Thirteen states have already made physical education compulsory and it is reasonable to believe that the legislatures of a number of commonwealths will follow suit at their next session.

It is a certainty that physical education is bound to make great strides in the next few years. Intelligent citizens are everywhere considering ways and means for the more effective conservation of our national resources in man and woman power. State and city boards of health, boards of education, medical and health societies are recording themselves more and more insistently for the more effective acquisition and for the more thorough conservation of better health. There is no better way to bring the great objective about then by the early training of the young.

It has become clearly evident, proven beyond dispute, that our modern social and industrial conditions are such that our children can no longer be permitted to grow up without thought being taken for their physical as well as for their intellectual and spiritual welfare. We must use the public school system as a universal agency for the upbuilding and strengthening of the future generations, for it is the most effective way possible.

A physical education program wisely administered will, raise the positive coefficiency of the physical life of the nation. It will build morality upon the solid foundation of physical soundness and vitality. It must be recognized as a national responsibility because Of its vital relation to national prosperity, national security and the general public welfare.

Digitized by
388

A SYSTEMATIC METHOD OF GRADING TEACHERS IN PHYSICAL TRAINING.

By ARTHUR C. KRAUSE, Physical Director, Colorado State Normal School,

Gunnison, Colo.

{Continued from January)

In a former article I presented a uniform system of grading pupils in physical training, for the purpose of assisting the teachers during the year and establishing for the pupils the same credit system from grade to grade. When a supervisor of physical training has a number of school buildings in his charge and from fifty to three hundred teachers conducting his work, a system of grading these teachers is almost as essential as the course itself. The foundation for such a system must cover all points in the course, as the grading must be concise and definite. There are two reasons for originating this system,- first, so that the supervisor may at any time report to the superintendent of the schools, as to the ability of any teacher in his work; second, so that the supervisor may have definite knowledge of all teachers’ qualifications as conductors of physical training classes, and that he may give a letter of recommendation that will cover all phases of the work. The grades of the teachers are absolutely confidential, as it is not for their benefit that they are recorded; but they are aware of the points considered in grading, and are informed from time to time as to their weaknesses and strong points.

You will note there are twelve points the supervisor must cover before being able to submit a satisfactory report to the superintendent or any other interested person. The method I used to accomplish this was to cover three different points of this system at one visit to a building, and while the teacher has the class demonstrate the lesson for that day, I observed carefully the manner in which she performed the points. On the second visit, I took my former report and noted any improvement, plus the observing of three more points. After making the circuit of all the schools in the city and having covered all twelve points, I added the total of each teacher’s grade and then took the best teacher in each grade as a standard for all the others to equal. In other words, I have selected the best first grade teacher in the city, as well as the best eighth grade teacher and by setting them up as standards in the grading system, the other teachers are compelled to meet the qualifications of the best teacher of physical training in their grade. After visiting the schools eight or ten times the points are easily noticed and due credit is given for any improvement by the teacher. Before grading, I found it desirable to meet and give the teachers the cardinal points to be observed and had each one receive a copy of them. They were always prepared on all the points as I did not notify them which ones would be considered at any visit to their building, and they had to be competent in every phase of the course. With the exception of very weak teachers, I found that in several weeks they were well qualified in all the different points of the grading system.

Digitized by Google
389

From my observation when applying this system to 243 teachers, I found that a great number of the teachers reached a certain mark and could not go one per cent above it, no matter how hard they tried. On the other hand, some would show gradual improvement so that their grade was constantly changing toward a better one. The grading takes into consideration the conduct of the physical exercises by the teacher as it is the principal factor in the course, since the proper execution of the exercises will bring the best results from a physical standpoint.

I will give you the system as presented to the teachers and then will explain each point so that you may know the reasons for their importance,

20%—Observation of Postures.

10%—Delivery of Commands.

10%—Judgment of Cadence.

10%—Ability to Demonstrate Exercises.

10%—Mental Attitude.

10%—Individual Instruction.

5%—Ability to give “Halting," Command.

5%—Quality of Voice.

5%—Order of Exercises.

5%—Originality.

5%—Folk Dances.

5%—Games and Races.

Observation of Postures.

You will recall that in the grading of the pupils 60% was considered for the various postures. It now becomes the duty of the teacher to recognize and call attention to any of these poor postures. During the physical training period, the teacher must be able to observe the postures of the majority of the pupils when executing any movement. If she fails to correct the class when over fifty per cent are incorrect, then the supervisor gives her little credit for this point. Likewise during recitation or study period if the teacher heeds not whether the pupil is standing on one foot or leaning against the desk or is stretched out for a nap in the seat, she is judged by her attitude toward these poor postures. The principal or physical director, while making his visit to the room, checks on the standing, walking and sitting of the pupils, while they are under the jurisdiction of the teacher, by reducing her grade for failure to have pupils meet the required standards for every posture. With the majority of pupils during the school session and exercise period, a look or gesture from the teacher is sufficient to correct a faulty position.

Delivery of Commands.

A common complaint of many teachers is that they do not know how to give commands. The voice must be animated, clear and distinct. The explanatory commands are usually given in a conversational tone, while the executory command should be short, sharp, quick and decisive, and the pupils will respond in that manner. If the teacher gives her commands in a singsong, listless manner, the execution by the pupils cannot be otherwise than listless and of

Digitized by v^.ooQle
390

no physical value. Each exercise must be performed with a snap and vigor to be of any benefit to the pupils. This point is put in the system because the commands are essential to her success and by practice and patience the teacher can acquire a voice that will express enthusiasm and energy into the class.

Judgment of Cadence.

Each exercise has a certain cadence applicable to it, which will bring the best results. By practice the teacher learns what count is best suited to a certain movement. This is accomplished by the use of good judgment, as there is harm in giving too fast a count, likewise too slow is uninteresting, and but little benefit derived from it. The counting throughout an exercise must be practically uniform. A teacher should never begin with a fast count and decrease her speed. With the simple arm and leg exercises, the teacher can begin with a slower count and gradually increase her speed if the exercise is repeated several times. As a rule the leg and arm movements should be quick and fast, and the trunk and head movements slow. The emphasizing of the strong contraction movement may be given with an encouragingly louder count, and the relaxation movement may be given in a tone expressing ease and involuntary action. The importance of sound judgment cannot be over-emphasized as the merit of any exercise depends wholly on how it is performed.

Ability to Demonstrate the Exercises.

In preparing the lesson in physical training, the teacher should carefully read the instructions and go through the movements; also, she must be able to state how each movement is to be made, and while telling the pupils, perform the movements for them, and at the same time give the count in the right rhythm, so that they may get an idea as to the way it is correctly executed. Occasionally I saw teachers demonstrate a new exercise before their classes by taking the physical training book and reading the instructions. This method proved very unsatisfactory from every standpoint, as the pupils felt she knew little concerning the exercise except what was read in the instructions. It is far better for the teacher to stand in good position and explain from memory each movement and describe it fully so that there will be no question as to whether she knows how to do it or not. By going through the lesson two or three times, the teacher familiarizes herself with the movements and can give an explanation as to why each one is made, and this the pupils enjoy knowing. In the higher grades if the pupils know what parts of their bodies are being benefited by a certain exercise, just so much more do they enjoy peforming that exercise.

Mental Attitude.

Some teachers dread physical training, mainly because they care nothing about it or do not rea'ize the value of it for the pupils as well as for themselves. This attitude is contrary to the main qualifications of a successful teacher. She must be enthusiastic and intensely interested in the physical as well as the mental welfare of her charges. Her spirit is instilled into the pupils and if it is lacking, the results will also be lacking; if she is full of life and pep, the
391

pupils unconsciously acquire it, and this is essential to good physical work. The second phase of this point is the mental attitude of the teacher when conducting the class in the presence of the supervisor or any visitor. Some teachers become so very excited and nervous that the class goes all to pieces, so to speak, and later she cannot explain why they did not go through the exercises as well as they usually did. A teacher who can overcome this nervous attitude is best qualified to demonstrate her work at an exhibition. On my visits to the various buildings, I had to explain to the teacher that I desired that she conduct her class as she would if I were not present. This nervousness is sometimes due to her temperament, but more often to unpreparedness of the lesson.

Individual Instruction.

This point is worthy of consideration as it encourages the teacher to go through the aisles during the counting and assist those pupils who are slightly incorrect, for one of the main ideas is to recognize mistakes and show the pupils how to correct them. If the majority of the class is not performing an exercise properly, the teacher should "halt” the class and explain to them the trouble. If just a few, however, are performing it incorrectly, then the teacher can by a look or gesture show the pupil the mistake; or if she is walking through the aisles she can correct the poor execution by touching that part of the body which is out of position. Very often a teacher can give individual corrections without interfering with the count of the exercise. It matters not how good a demonstration the teacher may give of any exercise, if she fails to correct minor defects in the few, for it is essential to the success of the whole class, as only then will they work in unison.

Ability to give "Halting,” command.

It is a recognized fact that many teachers during their vacation never have taken any physical training in the Normal Schools or Universities, but rather devoted their extra period to folk dancing or games. Thus their summer courses were of little assistance in the actual conduct of calisthenics, as they had to learn how to deliver commands, how to count and numerous other requirements before successfully handling the important task of conducting calisthenics. This lack of knowledge is plainly visible when the teacher endeavors, to discontinue an exercise, as the command, Class-HALT is not forthcoming. Not only then, but in case the count is started and she notices that the majority of the class is doing it incorrectly, the teacher is unable to stop them methodically, but flounders around or continues until the count is completed. In order to cultivate the habit of stopping the class at any time I give the teacher credit for this accomplishment.

Quality of Voice.

The quality of the teacher's voice expresses her spirit and the class performs the exercises in proportion to the maimer in which the commands are given. In the so-called "singsong” voice the teacher fails to cut the count short and make it concise; so that the movements during the length of time it takes her to complete the

Digitized by LaOOQle
392

command, are not in unison, which spoils the physical value as well as the appearance of the exercise. Other teachers strain their voices to a point of yelling, so that it becomes necessary to have the teachers practice the explanatory commands in a clear conversational tone in order that all may plainly hear them; and the executory command is given with a rising inflexion, but short, snappy and decisive.

Order of Exercises.

The idea in giving a definite order to exercises is to have the teachers overcome the habit of giving so many movements for one part of the body at a time, as to lead to a point of exhaustion to that member of the body. Some teachers have given two or three head exercises, then several arm movements, and then all the leg exercises she knows, and finally some two or three body bends and twists. By the time the class has completed these exercises, all parts of the body are exhausted, and not stimulated as they should be. Instead, the teacher is instructed to give one exercise for each part of the body, then, codrdination and precipitant movements. In case the exercise period is long enough, the teacher may have the class go through a different series of exercises in the order already mentioned. I have seen teachers open the windows, and start a deep breathing exercise first, then give a precipitant movement and finally a slow head rotation, etc. A supervisor must realize that all teachers are not trained scientifically for this work but depend on his assistance to a great extent. This point is kept in mind so that they do not overwork the one part of the body, while the other part does nothing, but exercise each part a little, before giving a combination of the various parts.

Originality.

After repeating the lesson two or three times, the teacher may show her added interest in the work by giving some exercise not found in the lesson that is applicable to her grade and is enjoyed by them. Exercises received at the Y. M. C. A. or Y. W. C. A. can be tried here, as well as those found in physical training magazines or monthly magazines. The cadence may be changed to apply to the pupils and the number of counts proportioned to their ability. Another way to show originality is by giving the games or races in various other ways than prescribed by the physical training book. A new idea or an old idea in a different manner is what is encouraged in this point. I found in folk dancing a broad field for originality, as many teachers put in extra steps and courtesies that added immensely to the pleasure of the pupils.

Folk Dancing.

The ability to participate in folk dances yourself, and the ability to teach them to small children are vastly different, and I know of teachers who could not do either. They should be encouraged to teach one folk dance a month and in this way they may reward the pupils for their effort in calisthenics. Folk dancing has a definite place in physical training, therefore no teacher can afford to be lacking in the knowledge to teach the pupils rhythm and graceful steps such as are found in the singing games and folk dances.

Digitized by v^ooQle
The greatest part of the physical exercise period should be spent on calisthenics, because the main idea is to strengthen the body rather than perfect the graceful movements.

Games and Races.

If the teachers tells the pupils that the performance in calis-thenics will be followed by a game or a race, providing they do their best during the exercises, the class invariably puts forth added effort to qualify for the opportunity to enjoy this phase of physical exercise. The teacher should be able to organize the teams for a game; she must classify the pupils off hand to run races, and further, she must pass favorable comments on the winners of the events and give encouragement to the losers. These games must be properly supervised and the teacher is given an opportunity to conduct them so that all pupils will have a good time; as these games and races are a reward for good work. This part of the exercise period especially, stimulates competition which is essential in the higher grades.

There are twelve points in this system, but I feel that each is absolutely necessary to the grading of a teacher. Perhaps I have given too much credit for the one and not enough for the other; still I feel I am correct in stating that all are important, but not of equal importance. You will find upon adopting this system that some teachers will make all the points in one phase of the system, and not be able to score a single point in another. By telling her this fact, she will be able to strive harder to do better, and by concentrated effort will succeed and finally put herself on a par with the best teacher in her grade. In order to be a good physical training teacher, she must be able to score at least a majority of the points in each part of the grading system.

The schools in our country are gradually adopting a course in physical training and are selecting physical directors to supervise it. Such a grading system as this gives a teacher a realization of the value of this part of the school curriculum. The physical director is not able to meet the teacher of each grade often enough to explain and demonstrate each new lesson; therefore he must rely on the good judgment and ability of the teacher. With the points of this grading system in mind she should perfect herself in each new exerdse before presenting it to her class.

PerhapB you feel that this system is too complicated and unworkable. Such is not the case, for, by adding a few minutes each day to the teacher’s grade in his record book, the physical director may have a definite and concrete basis for any statement as to a teacher’s ability. Some physical directors may think that the adoption of this system will necessitate a vast amount of record keeping; but after compiling a report on each point for a teacher, this record keeping will be practically eliminated.

I would be glad to communicate with any physical director or superintendent as to the application of this system in public schools. If anything is not clear, you may writ me for further explanation. I would deem it a favor if you would give it a trial in your schools, and later notify me as to its success or failure.

Digitized by LaOOQle
394

WHY MANY GIRLS DISLIKE PHYSICAL TRAINING.

By EMILY WARREN ELMORE, Instructor in Physical Education, University of Wisconsin.

In a recent article in a magazine of physical education, I was attracted by the expression “Gymnastics with a little fun,” and I immediat ly realized that one of the chief reasons why girls so often have to be forced against their desire into taking gymnastics, is because there is so little “fun” in it, the way it is often taught.

A teacher who had been for seventeen years in an eastern finishing school, told me recent y that the Principal had more trouble in making the students go willingly to physical training i han to any other subject, and that there was a series of excuses and complaints with regard to the work all the time. Now what was wrong there?

urely the actual subject of gymnastics and sports was not to blame, so it must have been nine tenths the fault of the way it was presented.

I visited a college class in gymnastics not long ago and even I, who am enthusiastic over the subject and who understood all that was being presented, found myself actually yawning and losing interest entirely in the class. This is what happened: The teacher came into the gymnasium and in a perfectly colorless tone said, “form ranks,” with no greeting to the class of any sort and a perfectly unsmiling countenance. Then in an equally toneless voice she said, “right dress” and “count twos,” etc. Then the day's order began, one exercise following another, and while the commands were given in correct form with the proper pauses and admonitions for good posture, etc., there was an entire lack of verve and personality, and “fun.” I was sitting in the gallery so that I could see the entire class and as it was a large one, the teacher was unable to see them all since she was on a level with them, and, accordingly those who were outside her range of vision did practically nothing, and I must say I hardly blamed them. At the end of the drill the command “form squads” was given and after the various pieces of apparatus were assigned, the leaders lead their squads to the proper places and began their work. Here too I felt a lack of stimulation and encouragement, and when one or two girls went to the top of the ropes, nothing was said in the way of praise or approval, so, naturally there was no great incentive for the other girls to climb. The average college girl has no special desire to climb to the top of a rope or to do any other feat on apparatus unless there is some sense of competition or gaining of profits for herself or her class, and if these points are not emphasized there will be very little effort made. The class was finally told to remove the apparatus and form anks and then after a brief run was dismissed, and I couldn't help thinking to myself—what did they get from that lesson that in any way stimulated or amused them or that advanced the cause of physical training? And they had come way across the campus, tired from other classes, gone to all the trouble of changing their clothes—and anyone who has watched girls dress recently knows what a ceremony that is—and then without really getting even warm, had taken their

Digitized by v^.ooQle
m

showers which were not very attractive under those circumstances, and put on their clothes again. Was it any wonder that many of them took all the cuts allowed them in the course and thought of “gym” as extremely dull?

Someone will probably say, “that must have been a very mediocre teacher of gymnastics who is being described, and therefore the case is not typical or representative.” I can answer that by saying that the teacher graduated high in her class at her training school and was considered one of the very most competent students enrolled. As far as the technical side of her teaching was concerned I should say that it was quite perfect, as her lesson was well learned and each exercise correctly presented and without hesitation, but the very element which was necessary to make her class enjoy that lesson and get real benefit from it was the human element and the feeling of co-operation and esprit de corps, without which I feel that a gymnastics teacher is greatly handicapped.

I am a firm believer in the regular day’s order and I realize that all parts of the body are stimulated and developed by the different exercises in their proper succession, but I do feel that too strict adherence to a regular lesson is sometimes a mistake as it is very apt to pall on youthful minds and as a result it loses its chief benefit.

I have been for a number of years in a large private school for girls and I feel sure that if I had adhered entirely to the set lessons every day the students would not have been so enthusiastic over ph' sical training as they are now. I watched the prevailing mood of my classes and varied my lessons accordingly, giving more or less of the formal gymnastic work according to circumstances. For example; if there was to be an exciting basket ball game in the afternoon and I knew that the minds of the girls were centered on that game, I would begin the lesson by saying, “now we will have a short drill first, and if it goes well we will then have an extra basket ball practice for the rest of the period.” Then, everyone was straining to do her very best in the exercises in order to get the much coveted reward. If by chance there was someone in the class who was not so much interested in basket ball and was not therefore working as hard at the exercises as she ought, I could see the disapproving glances of her classmates directed towards her and soon she would fall in line in order to escape their wrath or because her sense of co-operation had been stimulated. On the day before a vacation when I knew that the mood of the girls was not one for systematic formal work, we would have a very short drill and finish with some amusing games like, “human hurdle,” “bronco tag,” “overtake relay” or some such hilarious sport. They would then leave the class tired from the games and from laughing, and be willing to sit quietly the rest of the morning in their academic classes.

On the other hand when they first got back from a vacation and were feeling fresh and ready for real work I would give a complete and thorough day’s order and get good results and for the weeks preceding our demonstration we kept to the formal gymnastics very regularly.

Digitized by CjOOQle
396

I also found that if the work throughout the school was competitive during the year, each class being marked as a class every day, it greatly helped to keep up the interest and effort, because a banner was awarded at the end of the term to the class with the highest average for the year, and that was a much coveted possession. The basis on which I marked the classes was as follows: A large chart hung in the front of the gymnasium with the names of the classes on it and a series of headings such as “Promptness in coming to class/’ "Order maintained during the class,” “Effort shown,” etc. Then each class was divided into squads, which were marked according to the above classifications and also according to their order at the apparatus and their ability to perform well the various exercises on the apparatus, so there was really a competition within a competition and every one felt that she was a part of the whole. Each squad and class knew which one was in the lead and watched the chart eagerly from day to day, until a week or two before the demonstration when I took down the chart and kept the averages, so that they might not know until the final day which class had won the banner.

In order to stimulate effort on certain more difficult pieces of apparatus I would offer a certain number of points to the squad in which every member could climb to the top of the ropes, for example, or to the one which had the greatest number who could do a satisfactory side vault—etc. I found that this greatly helped to increase effort and interest as it was for the good of the squad or class and not merely the individual, and most girls can be appealed to on that basis.

Looking at the subject from a somewhat different angle we find another reason why so many girls dislike physical training. It is only in comparatively recent years and only in some of the more completely equipped colleges and universities that there has been a division of classes into the strong and the weak or less physically fit girls, and all of the work has been the same for healthy athletic students and for those who were below par either because of their build or because of a chronic condition of fatigue. Perhaps the physical examination showed no functional disorder which should serve as an excuse from gymnastic work, but often such an examination does not discover the ease with which the patient becomes fatigued or the unaccustomedness to strenuous exercise or the amount of work which is being carried in academic subjects, or the type of life which is being led outside of school. This is of course especially apt to be the case among the preparatory school students who are not living in the institution who therefore have a greater variety of activities and so present a larger number of types.

One college graduate told me recently that she really could not enjoy a demonstration of gymnastic work any more because it always reminded her of how tired she used to be after taking a lesson, when she was in college, and of how the teacher's commands, and admonitions for snappy work used to be positively painful to her as the exercises were such an effort. She said that the apparatus work wa^

Digitized by i^ooQle
897

a similar nightmare to her as she felt so unequal to the exercises and yet she did not wish to seem lazy or unwilling by not trying to do them. This girl had grown very fast, had never been very strong, had little endurance and had led a somewhat sedentary life as she was very fond of reading and was a very fine student and so devoted much time to her books. Of comae I do not say that she ought to have been excused from all physical exercises—indeed she was the very girl who needed it, but the kind of exercise that she received was certainly of very little benefit to her, and in fact probably did her considerable harm. And alas, there are many girls of her type who are getting nothing better or more suited to their needs, in many of the schools of our country.

It is more difficult to remedy this condition in preparatory schools because the daily sessions are so much shorter and there is usually a smaller faculty in physical training so that it is difficult to divide the classes into the strong and the weak. I tried to overcome this difficulty by dividing the students into A and B sections and although it was impossible to give a different set of exercises in the floor work to each group, still I demanded better response from the members of the A division and helped the B section much more. Then in the apparatus work it was infinitely more practicable because the A division could be given much more difficult exercises to do, and the members of the B section had nothing beyond their powers, so no one felt self conscious about trying since all the members were of equal ability.

Often a member of the A section would voluntarily ask to be put into the B division, and in fact most of the members were self chosen, as each one realized her own limitations and no one thought of it as any disgrace. For the B students therefore the work became interesting and possible of execution, and for the A students worthy of their powers, and for both it stimulated their enthusiasm and enjoyment.

Some people I know do not approve of what are sometimes called bribes or awards, and they feel that the subject itself should be attractive enough to bring out the best efforts on the part of the students. Theoretically I, too, believe in that principle, but I fear it is a little too Utopian for the youth of to-day, and just as competition is the life of trade, so it is a great stimulus in gymnastics, or in any other required subject in school. Even grown men love insignia which are really only rewards for ability or effort, so why not give children or young people a like stimulus to effort?

I feel that if teachers could only realize that students like to be treated as human beings in the warmest sense of the word—and this does not mean that order and formality must necessarily be sacrificed—and if the members of the class can really feel the sympathy and interest of the teacher and understand the reason for things, a much more eager response will be had and th re will then be, ■"gymnastics with fun."

Digitized by LaOOQle
398

STATE OF NEW JERSEY, DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION, TRENTON.

Dear Dr. Kendall:

The following report for the year ending June 30th, 1919, is respectfully submitted. I wish to thank the members of the Department, the school officials, and the teachers who have done so much to make our physical training effective.

It is recognized by physical training teachers generally through-out the United States that the New Jersey Physical Training Law is comprehensive and practical. The law, while it is far reaching in its conception of the privileges and responsibilities of citizenship covered by the so-called informational subjects, emphasizes the importance of physical training as a part of a school health program and as a factor in the promotion of school discipline and character development. It has been my privilege throughout this school year to interpret the various phases of this law and to bring its many possibilities to the attention of the teachers, pupils, boards of education, parent-teacher organizations, and business men’s dubs.

The policies of practically all of our cities and a number of smaller communities, which have for some time past employed special physical training teachers, school nurses, and health supervisors, have stimulated many of the remaining districts to the use of these same agencies.

It seemed advisable for me to direct my energies along certain lines of work to insure something in the way of definite results.

County Physical Training Institutes.

Meetings of the County Physical Training Institutes, called by the Commissioner of Education, were conducted in each of the twenty-one counties. They were attended by county superintendents, city superintendents, supervising prindpals, principals, physical training teachers, and all teachers to whom physical training work had been assigned.

The program consisted of an introductory talk, the purpose of which was to emphasize the importance of the physical training activities as a part of the regular school curriculum; after which I taught four gymnastic lessons to high school boys, high school girls, elementary and primary school children. This practical demonstration was to clear up any misconception of just what our policy of “work through the spirit of play and good cheer” meant. Physical training lends itself to visual instruction as perha s no other subiect in the school program does. The demonstrations were followed by a conference and discussion of the material used, its application to local conditions, and the solution of time and space problems common to all systems.

There was a general response of co-operation at all these gatherings—both the children and the teachers present entering heartily into the spirit of the meetings. That this type of meeting met with the approval of school authorities was evidenced by their arranging similar meetings in local school systems for the benefit of all their teachers.
399

Teachers’ Institutes.

Physical training talks and practical demonstrations of gymnastic teaching were given at the Teachers’ Institutes which were conducted both before and after the influenza epidemic.

Normal Schools.

Through the cordial invitations of the Normal School Principals it has been possible for both Miss Packer and me to spend at least one day a month in these schools. This gave us an opportunity to point out to the Normal School students the physical training problems as we found them in our school visitations. We spent our time in the Normal Schools doing actual teaching of classes.

At our suggestion, the physical training teachers in the Normal Schools have entered into a plan to unify the work, to make a more thorough use of the State monographs, and to bring to the attention of the students the health clubs and similar organizations that are doing such fine work in many counties of the State.

Parent-Teachers’ Associations and School Board Meetings.

During the school year I have attended many meetings of School Boards and Parent-Teachers’ Associations. Whenever possible, the school authorities have kindly furnished demonstration classes. Experience has taught me that it is very desirable to show the parents and the board members just what we are striving for in our physical training work, for there seems to be a popular conception that physical training consists principally of setting-up exercises.

Rational physical training, in addition to stimulating the vital forces in the body conducive to better health, to the development of character and the high ideals of service and loyalty, should inculcate health habits and a love for the out-of-doors that will carry through after the child has left school and gone on either to higher institutions of learning or into business life.

The increasing number of hours for recreation through the shortening of the working day and the daylight saving laws has made imperative a policy of education for recreation. Physical training with its manifold possibilities, such as football, baseball, volley-ball, basket-ball, hiking, swimming, skating, dancing, running-jumping, etc., will do much to furnish the people with healthful ways of spending this extra time.

In Camp Sherman it was discovered that 75 per cent of the men did not know how to play. Two hours a day were spent in organized play as a part of their training. Thirty minutes a day is the minimum of time that should be spent in play during the school day.

Helping Teachers and County Superintendents.

The "helping teachers” have entered into the physical training work with excellent spirit. They have been aided and supervised by Miss Packer, whose splendid example has done much to maintain interest and arouse enthusiasm for this department of the school activities in our rural schools.

The County Superintendents have given generously of their
400

time and energy in arranging meetings, in promoting the health-habit practices, and in showing by precept ana by example that they are in sympathy with the workings of the physical training law. To a very great extent we have been able, through their interest and enthusiasm, to do much for the children who attend schools in districts where no regular physical training teachers are employed.

Summer Schools.

In the State Summer Schools at Ocean City, Collingswood and Newton the physical training work was taught by trained teachers. It was my privilege to visit these schools, to address the students, and to teach classes. I believe that the summer school work is of great value in giving to the teachers who attend and visit not only new material, but also an opportunity to grasp the spirit of the work which is essential to its success.

Rutgers University opened a school for physical training teachers as a part of its summer school organization and appointed me to direct the work. There were forty-two physical training teachers registered for the course this past summer.

County Field Days.

Many of the counties conducted field days during the months of May and June. The work was of high order, the programs attractive, and the interest keen. The physical activities of the children, including games, dancing, running, jumping, gymnastic drills and other exercises, appeal to the parents. We should do much more of this kind of work, not only to popularize the physical side of the child’s education, but also to help interest the public at large in this phase of our health program. We are living in the days of visual instruction and much can be accomplished by using these fete days and field days to instruct children and parents in the healthful forms of recreational activity which are so necessary to their well-being.

Medical Inspection.

The medical inspection is a very important department of our school health program and is closely related to our physical training work. In fact, an ideal system of physical training would presuppose a thorough medical inspection so that the child's activities might be directed in a way that would be most advantageous. The prescription of exercise to correct physical defects is within the province of the medical inspector. The statement, so frequently made, that our entire system of medical inspection is a farce, is not borne out by my inspection of many school districts. The great majority of men who have this work in hand are capable and painstaking. It is acknowledged by all that too much is expected of them and that they are underpaid.

In my opinion, each school district should have a medical inspector for every 6000 elementary school children and one fulltime school nurse for every 1200 children. We need the medical inspectors and it would be a mistake to permit school nurses, or to employ school nurses, to do this work.

Digitized by LaOOQle
401

Constructive legislative measures which would result in securing adequate compensation either from the State or from local boards would do much to raise the standard of the work. Cards and printed forms, which could be uniformly used, would do much to. systematize the work, but the most essential thing is to make these men feel that their efforts are appreciated and that we, as school people, realize the very worth while service they render the community in safeguarding the health of the school children.

Without exception, the medical inspectors recommend the employment of school nurses, or health supervisors, to help follow up the medical inspection, not as a charitable work but as an educational procedure and as an economic measure. Children who feel well will learn more quickly and progress more rapidly than those who are handicapped by some remedial defect.

New Jersey Physical Education Association.

The New Jersey Physical Education Association was organized during the past year because it seemed to those of us most interested in physical training that there was need for a closer relationship between the physical training teachers of our State than has existed m the past. The Association membership includes teachers in Public Schools, Private Schools, Colleges, Normal Schools, Y. M. C. A’s, and Athletic Clubs.

New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association.

The purpose of the New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association is to foster athletic competition in our public and private schools. The officials divide the State so that sectional championships in football, baseball, and basketball may be conducted. An executive committee decides the question of State championships.

I believe this Association is a power for good. The athletic coach gets closer to the boy, perhaps, than any othtr man on the school faculty and his position enables him to do much in developing the right attitude towards athletics in our schools. Being associated through this organization with other men in similar positions makes for a mutual elevation of standards and a higher appreciation of the ideals which may be inculcated through fair play.

General Remarks.

There never has been a time in the history of our Country more propitious for a wide-spread campaign to popularize the subject of physical training. The lessons of the war, the academic and economic losses to our communities as the result of disease, which to a great extent is preventable, will all too soon be forgotten unless we capitalize our experiences. There is no short road to health or to physical well-being. We raise or lower the standards of our resistance to disease by our daily habits of eating, sleeping, bathing, working, and exercising. Physical training is only one phase of a health program but it is an important phase. Daily exercise is essentialfor the health of the teacher and the pupil.

The school authorities throughout the State feel that the physical training work is well worth while in the schools. But physical training is not a subject that every grade teacher can handle without
402	:	. '

the help and supervision that is possible when there is a trained physical training teacher on the faculty. School boards should, insofar as their funds permit, employ trained physical training teachers if they wish to realize the maximum benefit from the work.

Physical training means more than muscular development and the winning of games. In its broad conception it includes both of these results, as well as the developing of character, the spirit of fair play, so vital in our business world of today, and the forming of health habits which will make for happier and healthier children.

Respectfully submitted,

F. W. MARONEY, M. D.

Director of Physical Training and Hygiene.

ESSENTIALS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN CITY

SCHOOLS.

By William A. Steoher, Philadelphia.

Quite a number of years ago I began to be distrustful of the effects produced by my elaborately worked out courses of study in physical training. The result was that with every reprint of the courses I eliminated things that I considered non-essential until I felt that we had a reasonably good course. When the first report, of the Provost Marshal General upon the physical condition of the drafted men appeared, and I found Pennsylvania at the bottom of the list, I again began to question the effectiveness of our physical training work, and determined to find out where the pupils in the Philadelphia schools stood physically. While preparing this test the second .report of the Provost Marshal General appeared. While this removed Pennsylvania from the bottom of the list, it showed that thirty-two states were still ahead of us.

In preparing a test to find our physical fitness it wais difficult for us to decide which exercises or events we should select for the elementary schools because wehad.no gymnasiums, nor did we have much time for a comprehensive test. After several conferences we decided upon the following events:

1.	Standing Broad Jump

2.	Basketball Farthrow

3.	Running 50 yards

' 4. Chinning for boys and leg raising or knee raising for girls. ■

* This fourth event was taken as a substitute for climbing.

Typical schools in different parts of the city were selected and over 25,000 children were tested. The age of the children was from 8 to 18 years. The aims to be reached and the results of the tests were as follows:

In the Elementary Schools:	!	'	'

Percent that 'did not

Aims that were to be reached. reach the desired aim.

Boys	;

•1. Standing Broad Jump, 3 feet, 6 inches 14.7 percent failed •2. Basketball Farthrow, 20 feet	11.1	”	'

8.	Running 50 yards, 9 seconds	30.1	”	”

4.	Chinning (7 and 8 grades) 3 times	48.8	”	"

Google
Girls

1.	Standing Broad Jump, 3 feet	14.5	percent	faded

2.	Basketball Farthrow, 18 feet	9.3	”	”

3.	Running 60 yards, 10 seconds	22.6	”	”

4.	Leg raismg (7 and 8 grades) 1 time	73.7	”	”

or Knee raising	41.0	”	”

In the High Schools the aims and the events were as follows:

1.	Running Broad Jump

2.	Chinning for boys and knee raising for girls

3.	Running 50 yards

4.	Rope climbing

6531 boys and girls were tested.

The results were as follows:

Percent that did not reach the desired aim.

Aims that were to be reached.

Boys

1.	Running Broad Jump, 9 1-2 feet

2.	Chinning, 3 times

3.	Running 60 yards in 8 seconds

4..	Rope climbing, 10 feet

Girls

X.	Running Broad Jump, 6 feet

2.	Knee raising, 20 times

4.	Climbing, 5 feet The results of these tests showed us that if we expected to

influence the physical development of our pupils favorably in such vital physical activities as running, jumping, throwing and climbing we would have to eliminate still morejof the unessential; physical training material. After a careful study of the conditions under which the physical training work in the elementary schools had to be conducted we decided upon the following minimum requirements for the grades.

22.9	percent failed

31.2	”

30.3	”

11.4	"

29.7 percent failed

23.9	”

78.2	”

1. Marching Tactics.

In the lower three grades pupils must be able to march in a column of twos.

In the other grades they must be able to mafch in a column of fours or squads.

2. Daily Setting Up Exercises.

A drill was devised consisting of eight carefully selected exercises. There is one drill for grades 1, 2 and 3; another fen: grades 4, 5 and 6; and a third for grades 7 and 8.

.. After this drill is performed in an excellent manner the teachers may take up the work outlined in the regular handbooks.

3. Track and Field Work.

1.	Standing Broad Jump .. .. 2. Running 50 yards. If 50 yards are not available the run may be 40 or 30 yards.

3.	Basketball Farthrow.

4.	In the 7 and 8 grades, chinning or knee raising.

Digitized by LjOOQle
404

4.	Games.

One game was selected for each month. This is the obligatory game for that month. Teachers may select additional games.

5.	Optional Folk Dances.

Where the prescribed activities are being performed in a satisfactory manner, and where the other school conditions are good two folk dances were selected for each grade for a term, that is, four for the school year.

We are carefully watching the results of this great decrease in the mass of physical training material, and the emphasis upon fundamental activities that, we hope, shall favorably influence normal growth and development. Since adopting this new program we have two tests in running, jumping and throwing. Based upon these tests we have revised our requirements in these events, and judging by the results we are reasonably sure that we are increasing the physical fitness of our pupils.

What we now need is more time, a better equipment and better prepared teachers. These demands are formulated in the following, and are submitted for your consideration and adoption.

1.	The Aim.

An effective course in physical education in schools must have a two-fold aim.

First, it must be hygienic; that is, it must promote the health of the pupils and help to insure their normal growth.

Second, it must be educational; that is, it must help to produce correct habits of thought and feeling, as well as of action.

A wise combination of these aims will produce in the normal child the efficiency needed in all walks of life.

11.	Fundamentals for Sound Physical Health.

These fundamentals may be grouped under the headings of Time, Equipment and Teachers.

1.	In order to remain healthy and grow strong, a developing child should have at least one hour of vigorous physical exercise of some form per day.

2.	So far as the school is concerned, not less than two hours per week should be devoted to regulated physical training work and hygiene, and three to play and athletics. In order to secure some of this time without encroaching upon the time devoted to other school subjects, either the school day should be lengthened or the school-yards should be opened after the regular school hours for free and supervised play.

3.	The physical exercises should consist of the following types:

(a)	Exercises that develop prompt response to commands (obedience),

(b)	Exercises that develop initiative and skill (resourcefulness),

(c)	Exercises that develop co-operation (loyalty, unselfishness),

(d)	Exercises that develop determination (leadership),

(e)	Exercises that develop the musculature (posture).
401

4.	Instruction in the laws of hygiene, and an application of these laws to everyday life should be connected closely with the teaching of all forms of bodily exercise.

5.	If the best physical, mental and social effects are to be realized, the physical education of a developing child should be guided by well-trained teachers.

111.	Space and Equipment. A. Elementary Schools.

1.	Minimum play space:

(a)	For schools having less than 200 pupils there should be an unobstructed outdoor play space of 2,000 square feet plus 20 square feet for each enrolled pupil.

(b)	For schools having more than 200 pupils there should be an unobstructed outdoor play space of 2,000 square feet plus 30 square feet for each enrolled pupil.

(c)	For use during inclement weather there should be in schools of less than 200 pupils an unobstructed play room or gymnasium not less than 30 by 85 feet, and for schools of more than 200 pupils at least two such spaces.

2.	Play Equipment: The minimum play supplies for one year

in a school of less than 200 pupils should be:

2	soccer footballs (for all forms of gymnastic games)

1 volleyball

3	indoor baseballs and 1 bat

The apparatus equipment, if such can be provided, should consist of:

1	giant stride

2	low horizontal bars

1 jump pit

1 swing frame with four seats.

For schools of more than 200 pupils these supplies and equipment should be increased proportionately.

B.	High Schools.

1.	Minimum space: The outdoor play space should be large enough to allow the playing of vigorous games and the practice of the standard athletic events. While an adequate athletic field some distance from the school is very useful, a smaller space immediately adjoining the school is of greatest use. This unobstructed play space should not be less than 40,000 square feet. If it is possible to secure a field large enough for a full sized baseball field, this would be extremely useful at all times of the year.

The gymnasium space should be large enough to accommodate all pupils not less than two periods per week. Forty square feet of floor space per pupil is necessary. In large schools this means several gymnasiums. It is better to have several gymnasiums than one large one.

(a)	Equipment: The equipment for the play field should consist of a sufficient number of balls, bats, hurdles, jump pits, shot, etc., necessary for a vigorous play life of high school students.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
406

The equipment of the gymnasium should be very simple, consisting mainly of types of apparatus allowing mass instruction.

IV. The Administration of Physical Education Work.

A.	In the Elementary Schocls.

1.	Regular Work.

(a)	In grades one to four the classroom teachers should conduct the work of their own classes.

(b)	In grades five to eight the boys of two rooms should be combined into one gymnasium class under the direction of a. man, and the girls of these two classes at the same time should be in charge of a woman teacher of physical training.

2.	Corrective Work.

The corrective work in all elementary schools should be supervised by the Director of Physical Education under the direction of medical experts.

3.	Athletic Competition and Play.

Athletic competition and play, both during and after school hours, should engage all pupils, and should be in the hands of trained teachers.

B.	High Schools.

1.	All physical education work, including the coaching in athletics, should be conducted by the teachers of physical education.

2.	In athletics the greatest emphasis should be placed upon mass competition engaging all pupils.

Resolutions of the Section on Medical Inspection.

I.	Resolved, that it is the conviction of this section conference on Health Education that a rational and adequate health program should be provided for all the school children and teachers of Pennsylvania, including all those attending public, private and parochial schools.

II.	Resolved, that it is the belief of this conference that such a program should include the health inspection, examination and care of all the children, with reference to:

A.	Prevention and control of acute and communicable diseases.

B.	The detection of health defects and the program of follow-up and remedial work for the fullest possible correction of all health defects discovered and remediable.

C.	The provision of adequate means for the special care and training of those children possessing irremediable physical and mental defects.

III.	Resolved, that the fullest possible provision for the positive and constructive program of health care and cultivation desirable for the fullest possible maintenance and improvement of the health of the children of the schools requires:

A.	Maintenance and care of healthful school plants, equipment and supplies.

B.	Hygienic administration and management of the schools.

Digitized by Google
407

IV.	Resolved, that great prominence and thoroughness should be givqn to the problems of health instruction and training for all school children, giving particular recognition and attention to the promotion of nutrition of all children.

V.	Resolved, that a comprehensive and satisfactory program of health education in the schools include generous and complete provision of facilities, instruction and supervision of an adequate program of physical activities for all boys and girls.

Publishers’ Note.—The series of articles on Physical Training tor Orthogenic Classes by Dr. Stecher which was begun in the December issue and continued in the January number is interrupted this month owing to the loss of a manuscript in the mails. The series will be resumed in the March number and for this issue we are offering our readers the foregoing article from Mr. Stecher’s wide experience as physical director of the city schools of Philadelphia.

RESULTS OF TESTS COMPARING MECHANICAL AND NATURAL VENTILATION OF SCHOOL ROOMS.

The American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers.

In February, 1919, a series of tests were instituted in a Detroit public school “to determine what qualities must be present in class rooms so that the physical well-being, comfort and mental alacrity of the pupils may be at as high a standard as possible, and thereby render the pupil completely at ease and readily responsive to the efforts and influence of the teacher.” To that end, comparative studies were made of mechanical and natural (window) ventilation.

The James Burrill Angell school, a 20-room, two-story building situated in one of the better residence districts of the city, was selected for the test. The mechanical equipment of the building consisted of (1) a certain amount of direct radiation in each class room, sufficient to care for 60 per cent of the heat losses of the room,

(2)	a plenum system of ventilation whereby air drawn from above the roof is washed, tempered and humidified, introduced into the room through supply registers near the ceiling of the inside wall and exhausted by gravity through registers in the same wall at the floor line. The control apparatus was set to maintain a uniform temperature of 68 deg. fahr., in the class room and a relative humidity of approximately 42 per cent.

For the tests, 16 typical rooms were selected, eight of which were operated with the regular mechanical ventilation provided by the school equipment. The remaining eight had all ventilation openings blocked off and depended for ventilation solely upon wide-open windows, in accordance with the practices advocated in some cities. The rooms chosen were so located that they had the same exposure and so that a mechanically-ventilated room was directly above a naturally-ventilated room, and vice versa.

In the naturally-ventilated rooms, extra radiation under thermostatic control was installed in front of the windows, which was

Digitized by

Google
408

screened with fine-mesh cheese-cloth to break the wind and keep out the dust, and draft deflectors were also installed to protect scholars, nearest the windows, from drafts.

It was the intention to collect and classify information upon the following points:

1.	Temperature—Dry and wet bulb; to be the average of four selected stations in each room taken daily;

2.	Air Motion—Daily readings at each of four stations in a room;

3.	Primary sense impression—To be the observer’s impression upon entering the room. Recorded as “hot,” “close,” “pleasant" or “cool.”

4.	Determination of CO*—To be made at each station for purposes of determining (a) the total amount of air supplied and (b) the distribution of air within the room;

5.	Dust count—To be made at each station; determination made with Hill’s dust counter;

6.	Bacteria count—To be made at each station by exposing standard Agar plates two minutes and incubating 24 hours at 20 deg. Cent.;

7.	Determination of fuel consumption—To be made by measuring condensation from all radiation and from radiation in naturally ventilated rooms;

8.	Determination of mental alacrity of pupils—By means of comparative mental tests similar to the Binet test;

9.	Comparison of physical condition of pupils—By careful medical inspection and constant nursing supervision.

It was proposed that these studies should extend over an entire school year but an unforeseen element, the nature of which is explained later, entered into the calculations and prevented the accomplishment of this intention. Because of the short duration of the test, sufficient data to warrant their presentation were gathered on only a few of the points under consideration. The following is a summary of such data:

In the rooms with natural (window) ventilation, the DRY BULB TEMPERATURE varied sharply from 70 deg. to 82 deg., the WET BULB TEMPERATURE from 49 deg. to 56 deg., and the SENSE IMPRESSION fluctuated between the extremes of “hot” and “cool,” seldom touching the mean of “pleasant.”

In the mechanically-ventilated rooms, the DRY BULB TEMPERATURE was almost constant at about 70 deg. and the WET BULB TEMPERATURE hovered consistently around 55 deg. The SENSE IMPRESSION was uniformly “pleasant,” not varying at all.

The SENSE IMPRESSION in the naturally-ventilated rooms showed a definite and striking relation to the wind, whereas the mechanically-ventilated rooms were not thus affected.

The factor which necessitated the discontinuation of the tests was a feeling of dissatisfaction that developed in connection with the conditions that were obtained in the naturally-ventilated rooms. Whereas, in the beginning the attitude of the teachers had been
409

most favorable and they had shown great eagerness to be assigned to the naturally-ventilated rooms, before the observations had been carried on for two months, a strong opposition arose which spread to the children and thence to the parents making it impossible to further conduct the experiment upon an unbiased basis. The contentions of the opposition were as follows:

a.	It was impossible to keep the temperature and air motion conditions in the naturally-ventilated rooms within the bounds of comfort.

b.	The absence, because of illness of pupils and teachers in naturally-ventilated rooms, increased to an alarming extent.

c.	The air in the naturally-ventilated rooms was stagnant and heavy, causing depression and headaches.

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

BY D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D.

The Measurement of Muscular Strength.—Man power has always been an important factor in the work of the world; hence it is truly surprising that so little success has been attained in the measurement of human strength. Exercise is everywhere admitted to be an essential to good health and efficiency, yet science is far from having a suitable knowledge of the physiology of exercise. Despite the formulation of so-called strength tests, no scheme which will permit a forecast of the probable maximum strength of an individual and an analysis of observed departures from expectation has until recently existed.

In connection with a study of the treatment of infantile paralysis, Lovett and Martin* have developed a method of estimating muscular strength. This is not a simple matter. Martin** has pointed out the complications. Effective muscular strength, he says, by which is meant the power developed at the actual points at which strength is ordinarily exerted, depends on a number of factors. The muscles work for the most part in groups, and through action on levers. The effective strength, for example, of the calf muscles in such an action as rising on the toes has a complex mechanical basis, in comparison with the absolute muscular force of the isolated gastrocnemius. Moreover, in exhibitions of voluntary muscle power, the mechanism involved is a neuromuscular one in which the nervous part may have as much hand in determining the degree of activity as the purely muscular. Thus, so far as the actual use

* Lovett, R. W., and Martin, E. G.: Certain Aspects of Infantile Paralysis' The Journal A. M. A., March 4, 1916, p. 729; Am. Jour. Orthop. Surg., 1916# 14, 416.

** Martin, E. G.: Muscular Strength and Muscular Symmetry in Human Beings, Am. Jour. Physiol., 1918, 46, 67:

Digitized by LaOOQle
410

of the muscles is concerned, effective strength rather than intrinsic muscle power is of significance.

, The collection of dependable data on this feature of the individual will serve toward the establishment of “quantitative standards of physiologic activities,” surely a desirable end. Martin’s extensive records of strength tests on children have shown that calculations of entire strength based on tests of only part of the muscle groups in the body as valid within a reasonable margin of error. In harmony with earlier findings of Kellogg on adults, relatively little difference in strength between the two sides of the body could be discerned. The data show a striking constancy in the relation of strength to body weight, when the sexes are considered separately. The fixed ratio of strength to weight is interpreted by Martin as signifying that the effective strength, as manifested in volitional efforts, depends in the absence of specific exercise effects, on the constantly operative factor of weight, either of the entire body or of the part moved by a particular muscle group. The possession of means for obtaining information regarding the ideal distribution of strength among the muscle groups, to quote Martin, may enable us to interpret and perhaps to regulate departures from the ideal due to special exercises or to particular habits. On such a basis alone can the best prescription of exercise be based and measured.

litorial:	The Journal	of the Am. Med. Assoc. Aug. 24, 1918.

The Secret of Longevity.—The late S. Wier Mitchell, himself an enthusiastic mountain climber and pedestrian, related to me an interesting conversation he had with the late John Biglow, who survived till he was 97. Mr. Biglow asked Dr. Mitchell how he had attained the then age of 80. Biglow being the elder, Dr. Mitchell urged him to divulge his cherished principles of life. Mr. Biglow replied with unction that he “had never smoked, never drank and never taken any form of exercise.” Whereupon Dr. Mitchell replied, he himself had.smoked since boyhood, had always taken wine and enormous amounts of active exercise. No man had ever lived a fuller, more agreeable or successful life than that of S. Wier Mitchell, and he ranged the hills till just before the end.—J. Madison	,

Muscle Training is doubtless the most valuable and reliable of measures. It consists in an attempt to drive an impulse from the brain to the affected muscle by a new route. The bundles of motor centers are connected with each other and with the muscles by most intricate connections and in the partial destruction of such centers, which is more common than their total destruction (as shown by the predominance of partial paralysis), it is obviously reasonable to attempt to find and cultivate a new route for an impulse by calling for the performance of a motion and aiding the performance of that motion by the hand. With subsequent attempts the voluntary control is likely to increase and in the opinion of the writer we have in carefully directed muscle training at this stage the most valuable part of our therapeutic equipment.

M. D.
411

In Vermont in a period of three months a quantitative examine- -tion of the muscles showed that in cases treated by muscle training the expectation of improvement was as follows: under treatment by an expert 6 to 1; under home musde training under supervision 3.5 to 1; home training without supervision 2.8 tol.—From Public Heath News, Trenton N. J. Vol. 2. No. 2, “The Treatment of Infantile Paralysis” by Dr. R. W. Lovett, Prof. Orthopedic Surgery, Harvard.

Nutrition.—To the trained eye, the general appearance of the child may reveal much that is hidden to the mother. The posture, the tissue turgor, firm resistant subcutaneous tissues speak for health; flabby, nonresistant ones for malnutrition. The expressionless, tired looking children, with circles about the eyes, need to have their diets revised, or else have grave disturbances of health. Cyanosis of the cheeks, ears and finger tips may speak of cardiac or pulmonary disease. The bony changes in the skull of rachitic children are recognized at a glance. Disproportion between various skeletal members may reveal achondroplasia or other structural deformity.

Muscular Work and the Blind.—At a time when millions of persons are applying their energies to a degree that the world has probably never known before, it is important to understand thoroughly the physiology of muscular exercise. It has long been known that changes occur in the blood as the result of exercise. Muscular work, whether moderate or severe, produces a rise of blood pressure and an acceleration of the pulse. There are alterations also in the composition of the blood. The number of red corpuscles is noticeably increased; and this result appears on first consideration as a most beneficient phenomenon whereby a greater oxygen-carrying capacity is imparted to the circulating fluid at a time when the demand for oxygen in tissue respiration is decidely augmented. The explanation of this enrichment of the blood in red corpuscles as an incident of muscular exercise has not been uniform. Some authors* have explained their results on the basis that there are masses of corpuscles stored away in certain organs that may be liberated in time of need, while Lamson** believes that the number of corpuscles is altered by a splitting of old corpuscles or a production of new ones, as well as by storage in the liver. More recently, Scott*** of the University of Minnesota has come to the conclusion that the capillaries of special organs do not thus contain large numbers of corpuscles that may be liberated at any moment and pass into the

* Hawk, P. B.: Am. Jour. Physiol., 1904,10, 384. Schneider and Havens,: Am. Jour. PhyBiol., 1915, 36, 239, 380.

** Lamson: Jour. Pharmacol, and Exper. Therap., 1915, 7, 169; 1916, 9,

129.

••• Scott, P. H.: Factors Influencing the Interchange of Fluid Between Blood and Tissue Spaces, I, Blood Pressure, Am. Jour. Physiol., 1917, 44, 298; II, Muscular Activity, ibid., 1917, 44, 313.

Digitized by UaOOQle
412

general circulation. He has compared the capillary blood of various organs with that in the larger blood vessels, and has always found them practically indentical in hemoglobin content. Consequently, Scott argues, one may consider any alteration in the hemoglobin value or corpuscle mass found within a few minutes as due to the passage of fluid out of the blood to the tissues, or vice versa. Scott has demonstrated that the hemoglobin content of the blood is rapidly modified by any alteration in blood pressures a rise of pressure leading to an increase of hemoglobin, and a fall to a decrease. These results can be explained only by the forcing of fluid by the increased pressure out of the blood tissue spaces, and the passage of fluid back from the tissue spaces to the blood when the pressure is lowered. In view of the fact that a rise in blood pressure invariably attends muscular work, the increment in corpuscles can thus be explained. Furthermore, there is an increase in the water content of muscle as a result of contraction, if the blood is circulating through it. Thus a passage of fluid from blood to muscles comes about, whereby the alterations in blood composition are further facilitated.

Massage Versus Gymnastics in Rehabilitating the Crippled.—Hitherto chief reliance has been placed on massage to set free stiff joints and limbs—a most valuable and helpful agent when rightly applied. Devoted women have given themselves up to the carrying on of this work, and most admirable results have often been obtained; but with every desire to appreciate their work, and with no desire to belittle its value, one has had forced on one's mind sundry factors that indicate limitations in its utility. The ordinary medical man who orders massage for a patient knows nothing from personal experience of the methods employed, or of the results obtained or obtainable. He hands the patient over to the "massage department” with smug satisfaction that he has done his duty in an up-to-date fashion, and troubles no more about the matter. The massage is carried out, as a rule, by a woman who knows nothing but massage and perhaps a little electricity, and her horizon being thus limited, she will continue massaging a case most assiduously and devotedly when all hopes of gaining improvement thereby have long ceased. Often one has seen hopelessly ankylosed joints being rubbed to regain movement, and limbs with divided and unsutured nerves being similarly treated. It is pathetic to see a little but devoted masseuse struggling with a strong man’s stiff shoulder held by powerful muscles; to get the patient's weight to act on the arm would do more toward regaining movement in five minutes than five months of massage. To get good results the patient's own will must be brought into action.—Col Carless, Preface to Gymnastic Treatment for Joint and Muscle Disabilities.

Elimination of the Physiologic Products of Muscular Work.—Although the physiology of exercise has long interested scientific investigators, its importance has beome greatly augumented of late through the demand for greater personal efficiency and a larger industrial output. Fatigue sets a limit to work. Greater

Digitized by (^.ooQle
413

working capacity can be attained only through an understanding, of the nature of fatigue, so that it can be decreased as far as possible. For many years it has been understood that muscular activity ia attended with the production of substances of an acid nature. When they accumulate in the contractile tissues, the efficiency of the muscle is soon impaired; and the satisfactory continuance of muscular performance depends on the removal or the destruction of the add '‘fatigue products.”

In view of this aspect of muscular activity, it is conceivable that hard work will result in the discharge of add products into the circulation to an unusual degree. How are they disposed of? Are they oxidized, or neutralized, or excreted as such? It is now known that the blood maintains a constant reaction within very narrow limits, thanks to the remarkable devices for the preservation of neutrality in the organism. Marked alterations in the add or base forming properties of the diet do not essentially affect the reaction of the blood. Hastings* has noted that, although exercise may pro* duce a diminution of the bound carbon dioxid of the blood plasma, the depletion does not progress to such a point, ordinarily at least, that the reaction of the plasma is significantly altered.

The real response to muscular activity is to be observed in the respiratory exchange and in the urine. The output of carbon dioxid through tne lungs is an immediate outcome of work. The kidneys excrete the excess of acids of nonvolatile character. In his recent studies, Hastings* has found that the urine of men engaged in manual labor tended to be of a slightly higher addity than that of men at rest. The urine of physically strong men was regularly slightly more add after work than before. The urine of physically weak men showed wide variation in its reaction from day to day. When the muscular activity was such that the subject was intensely fatigued, there was invariably an increase in the hydrogen-ion concentration of the urine.

Talbert** has recently reported a similar change in the reaction of the perspiration during exercise. Hence the conclusion seems-inevitable that vigorous muscular activity results in the production of add products of such a kind or in such degree that they call on some mechanism other than the carbon dioxid excreting power of the lungs to eliminate them and preserve the physiologic reaction of the tissues intact. Editorial, The Journal A. M. A., Sept. 27,1919.

Open Air Class Work for All Pupils.—Our experiment with-a regular class in an open air classroom opens up another field, however; now that there is such an active campaign to improve the physical condition of the nation, there appears to us no better way to effect the improvement than by extending the use of the open air classroom to every schoolchild. If the routine can do so much for the subnormal, is it not natural to expect at least as much for

* Hastings, A. B.: An Investigation of Changes in the Blood and Urine-' Resulting from Fatigue, Pub. Health Rep. (Aug. 1) 1919.

** Talbert, G. A.: Am. J. Physiol. (June) 1919. Editorial, The Journal A. M. A. Sept 27,1919.

Digitized by LaOOQle
414

the average child? To change to open air class work would naturally ..entail a marked reform in our school buildings and could not be Immediately put into operation. But we do look forward to the time when we will strive to raise a hardy race and not hothouse plants. A building properly constructed would require no heat in any other classrooms than those used for manual work, such as shop work, designing, cooking, etc., provided the children were properly equipped to be protected from low temperatures. Such a step would be a great progress in preventive medicine. Any one who has the opportunity of visiting a regular and an open air classroom during the winter can readily decide for himself which one is conducive to growth, development and health. We look forward to the time, not far off. When we shall be able to conduct an entire school of normal children as an open air class school.

f Prom the observations made so far, these results of open air class work can be enumerated:

1.	Physically subnormal children improve in their mental and physical condition.

2.	Their nutrition and weight improve.

3.	The gain, in most instances, will be permanent.

i 4. In arrested cases of tuberculosis there are no relapses.

6.	The nervous system is restored to a normal condition.

6.	In cardiac cases pupils kept under proper medical supervision improve markedly.

7.	The capacity for doing work is increased and brought to at least a normal average.

8.	Absence from school on account of illness is greatly reduced.

> •	9.	A proper diet is followed, and the food is properly prepared.

10.	Good habits are established.

11.	Hygienic rules are lived up to.

12.	Children learn how to do the right things at the right time.

• It is our firm belief that average children will give even better Jesuits if afforded the same opportunities.—Classes by Dr. L. Marcus, New York. The Journal A. M. A. Oct. 4, 1919.

Muscular Tonus in Relation to Fatigue.—In subjects doing relatively strenuous work during the day, or where long hours were being spent in work, there was usually a decrease in the tonus in the evening as compared with the morning condition. This was more pronounced when the subject was losing rest (sleep). After lost rest the morning tonus was lower and the average tonus for the day Was less than on days following a good night’s sleep. Evidence was thus obtained of cumulative fatigue effects. Sleep at night or during the day was usually followed by a considerable increase in tonus. Strenuous work of short duration was usually followed by an immediate decrease in tonus. Psychic influences (excitement) seemed occasionally to produce an increase in tonus, although fatigue-producing conditions were recorded in the history. . In subjects doing relatively light work and obtaining plenty of sleep the tonus varied during the day, the evening tonus being frequently greater than that •observed in the morning.—Pub. Health Rep. 34: 1622 July 25, 1919.

Digitized by LjOOQle
415

By EMANUEL HAUG, De Witt Clinton High School 59th St. and 10th Ave.,

New York.

Beginning with this issue the “Department of Athletics" will again become a regular feature of “Mind and Body.” During the war when athletics were practically discontinued, the department was dropped but now it is hoped that it will again become one of the main features of the magazine. Articles on Athletic Efficiency, Reports on School and Class Athletics are especially desired.

All contributions should be sent to the above address.

The University of Pennsylvania has invited the English Athletes to compete in the Annual Relay Carnival at Franklin Field, Phi'adelphia, May 7 and 8. Oxford and Cambridge will probably send a combined relay team for the 4 mile race, besides individual competitors.

CLASS ATHLETICS, Reading, Pa., Schools.

Standing Broad Jump, 5th and 6th Grades, November, 1919.

5th Grade

No o Schools competing ............48

Pupils enrolled....................1989

Pupils competing ..................1936 (98%)

Average Jump—Boys..................4ft, 9 1-2 m.

Average Jump—Girls ................4ft. 2 in.

Average Jump—Schools ..............4ft. 5 3^4 in.

High Average—Boys..................5ft. 11 in

High Average—Girls.................5ft.

High Aver—-Schools ................5ft. 5 in.

Best Performance—Boys .............8ft.

Best Performance—Girls -...........6ft.

6th Grade

45

1835

1786 (97%) 5ft. 6 3-4 m. 4ft. 5 1-2 in. 5ft. 11-8 in. 6ft. 5 in.

5ft. 6 1-2 in. 5ft. 9 1-4 in. 8ft. 1 in.

6ft. 11 in.

Basket Ball Throw, 7th and 8th Grades, Oct. & Nov., 1919.

No. of Schools competing ...

Pi pils enrolled.......

Pupils competing ..1260

Average Throw—Boys ....

Average Throw—Girls ...

Average Throw—School ...

High Average—Boys.....

High Average—Girls.....

High Average—School ...

Best Performance—Boys..

Beat Performance—Girls.

7th Grade 8th Grade

Oct.	Nov.	Oct.	Nov.
31	31	22	22
.1285	1267	920	882
98% 1255 99% 902 98%			873 99%
25 l-2ft. 26 1-2 ft		.28 3-4ft.	31 l-2ft
21 l-2ft. 22ft.		23 3-4ft.	25ft.
23 l-2ft. 24ft.		26 l-4ft.	28ft. :
33 2-3ft. 33 l-2ft.		35 3-4ft.	39 l-2ft:
26ft.	25ft.	28ft.	30 l-4ft.
28ft.	28 l-2ft.	31ft.	33 1-2 ft.
,51ft.	52ft.	55ft.	57ft.
38ft.	40ft.	40 l-2ft.	42ft.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
416

The Amateur Athletic Union recently submitted plans for a stadium to be erected in New York City funds for same having been provided by Mrs. Isaac L. Rice and the children of the deceased submarine and torpedo boat inventor, to the amount of $1,000,000. The plans for the proposed playground and athletic field include a quarter mile track, with a 220 yard straightaway, a football field, a stadium capable of accommodating 10,000 people, basketball courts, open air swimming pool 100 x 300 feet, with grand stands erected on both sides of the pool, men’s and women’s < ressing rooms, mothers’ and childrens’ house, comfort and milk stations, childrens' wading pool, and childrens’ play field, fountain, outdoor gymnasium for boys and girls and tennis courts.

EFFICIENCY TEST OF THE GERMANTOWN HIGH SCHOOL

Philadelphia.

Points	50 yard Dash	Running  Broad  Jump	Climbing  Rope	Chinning  Hor.  Bar.
	seconds	feet-inches feet	times	
1			11 4-5			 4		.. 1		... 1	
2.			11 3-5			 4-6		.. 2		
3			11 2-5			 5		.. 3		... 2	
4			111-5			 5-6		.. 4		
5			11			 6		.. 5		... 3	
6			10 4-5			 6-6		.. 6		
7			10 3-5			 7		.. 7		... 4	
8			10 2-5			 7-6.		.. 8		
9			10 1-5 			 8		.. 9		... 5	
10			10			 8-6		..10		
11			9 4-5			9		.11		... 6	~
12.			9 3-5			9-6		.12		
13			92-5			10		.13		... 7	
14.			9 1-5			10-6		.14		
15			 9			11		.15		... 8	
16		.... 8 4-5			11-6			
17	. 8 3-5			12		.16		... 9	
18			 8 2-5			12-6			
19			 81-5			13		.17		...10	
20			 8			13-6			
21	7 4-5			14		.18		...11	*"
22			 7 3-5			14-6			-12	;
28			7 2-5			15		.19		...13	
24		.... 7 1-5			15-6			...14		
25			7			16		.20		...15	

Total 100 points—What is your efficiency?

Digitized by L.ooQle
NOTES AND COMMENTS.

The United States Interdepartmental Social Hygiene Board announces through its Executive Secretary, T. A. Storey, 1800 Virginia Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C., that appropriations have been made to the institutions named below from its Educational Research and Development Fund for the purpose of organizing or completing the organization of “Departments of Hygiene, the curriculum of which shall include courses and conferences in informational hygiene, and courses, conferences and training in the applications of hygiene, emphasizing with appropriate and due proportion and with proper tact and persistency the serious importance of the Venereal diseases, their causes, carriers and prevention; and emphasizing at the same time the other important facts and applications of general hygiene, individual hygiene, group hygipne and intergroup hygiene:’’	J

University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah,

Alcorn A. & M. College (colored), Alcorn, Miss.

Woman's Medical College of Pa., Philadelphia, Pa.

Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo.

Colorado State Teachers College, Greeley, Colo.

New York State Teachers College, Albany, N. Y.

Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.

University of South Carolina, Columbia, S. C.

Northwestern University, Evanston, 111.

University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.

State Normal School, Cheney, Wash.

Milwaukee State Normal School, Milwaukee, Wis.

Los Angeles State Normal School, Los Angeles, Calif.

Louisiana State Normal School, Natchitoches, La.

Maryland Normal and Industrial School (colored), Bowie, Md.

Maryland State Normal School, Towson, Md.

Michigan State Normal School, Ypsilanti, Mich.

Reed College, Portland, Oregon.

State Normal School, Valley City, N. D.

University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, N. M.

Washington State Normal School, Bellingham, Wash.

Winona State Normal School, Winona, Minn.

An appropriation was made from this same fund to the Johns Hopkins Psychological laboratory for an investigation of the informational and educative values of certain motion picture films that we being used in the campaign against venereal disease. This investigation is to be carried on under the direction of Dr. John B. Watson and Dr. Knight Dunlap, in co-operation with Dr. Adolf Meyer of the Johns Hopkins Hospital, Dr. S. I. Franz of the Government Hospital for the Insane, and Prof. R. S. Woodworth of the Psychology Department of Columbia University.

Digitized by
418

The Board now has before it applications from fifteen other educational institutions intending to establish Departments of Hygiene, involving a possible total appropriation of $190,000.

The membership of the Board is as follows:

Carter Glass, Secretary of the Treasury,

Newton D. Baker, Secretary of War,

Josephus Daniels, Secretary of the Navy,

Lt. Col. W. F. Snow, Medical Corps, U. S. A.,

Lt. Comdr. J. R. Phelps, Medical Corps, U. S. N.,

Asst. Surg. Gen. C. C. Pierce, U. S. Public Health Service,

Thomas A. Storey, Executive Secretary.

The Physical Education Conference of the Utah Education Convention Meeting at Salt Lake City, Utah, December 21-22-23, 1919, convened with the following officers in charge: President; Professor John Randolph Griffiths, University of Utah; Mrs. Isabelle Ross, Secretary, Director of Physical Education for the Deaf and Blind State School, Ogden.

The program consisted of the following numbers: “What Physical Education Has to Offer to the Health Program of the State,” Dr. E. G. Gowans, State Health Director; “The Contribution of Physical Education to the Social Activities of the School and Community,” Miss Charlotte Stewart, East High School; "Our Place in the R. 0. T. C. (Junior and Senior),” Prof. Eugene Lusk Roberts, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah; “Sex Hygiene,” Captain Louis Hough, Regional Consultant Public Health Service; General Discussion.

The following officers for the ensuing year were elected; President, Miss Charlotte Stewart, East High School; Miss Emma Heilman, University of Utah, Secretary.

Notes from School of Physical Education State Normal School*

La Crosse, Wis.

We are in the midst of an extremely busy term, which began with an enrollment of forty-eight freshmen women and thirty-seven men while the senior enrollment totalled fifty-five, thirty-five of whom were women.

Our winning of the state championship brought to a close a most successful football season. On December 4th, the players were entertained at dinner at the president's home, by President Cotton and Regent Van Auken. A society called “The Wearers of the L” was organized and all men having won school letters will be eligible for membership. And now the mid-winter sport, basket ball is coming in for its share of attention. In addition to the regular players, class teams have been organized among both boys and girls, the winning quintet to be determined by elimination.

Digitized by CaOOQle
419

Local representatives will for the first time match themselves with University men in a gymnastic contest to be held at the University of Wisconsin March 6. Arrangements have also been made for a dual track and field meet with the University in the new stadium at Madison, Wisconsin.

As the winter advances, outdoor sport becomes a leading factor in student life. Sleighing parties are not infrequent and skating is much in vogue. Under the tutelage of Director Wittich, classes m skiing are being conducted, for the low lying hills just off the athletic field afford admirable facilities for both skiing and tobogganing.

Owing to a shortage of fuel, the Thanksgiving vacation was prolonged for a week and meanwhile all social functions were discontinued.

The senior practice class has taken entire charge of Physical Education in the Vocational schools of the city.

The school has grown so steadily and so rapidly, both in the number of its students and teachers, and in the breadth and scope of its work, as to warrant larger, newer, and better equipped quarters which have been secured in the shape of a very large gymnasium and all its appurtenances. If present indications as to the winter term’s enrollment may be relied upon, the opening of the new bidding for the coming year will be most opportune.

Upon the completion of the swimming pool in the new structure, negotiations will be entered into with other schools to arrange swimming meets which will be the first of this branch of athletic activities to be held here.

ANNA D. HARMACEK, Reporter.

Complimentary Dinner to Dr. D. A. Sargent in Honor of His 50th Anniversary of Service.

It was a most representative body of men and women that gathered in the midst of the holiday season to pay homage to the sage of our profession, Dr. Dudley A. Sargent. The stage for this occasion, that marked the completion of 50 years’ service in Physical Education, was set at the Hotel Ven Dome in Boston on December 27. While the banquet was under the auspices of the Sargent Alumni association it was by no means limited to its members. All those men and women who had been associated with Dr. Sargent, either at Harvard College or the Harvard Summer School as well as in the various societies of which Dr. Sargent is a member, were informed of this occasion. About 150 were seated at small tables tastefully decorated, while Dr. Sargent and the speakers were seated at a long table overlooking the enthusiastic group of Sargent Apostles. The banquet was especially graced by the presence of Dr. Charles W. Eliot, President Emeritus of Harvard College, who was enthusiastically greeted both upon his arrival and again when he was to speak. A delightful atmosphere prevailed thruout the dinner, which lasted till late in the evening. Dr. Eliot, introduced'

Digitized by

Google
420

by the toastmaster, Dr. McKenzie, dwelt at length upon Dr. Sargent’s struggling services at Harvard, recognition for which was denied him up to the last. He characterized his unappreciated -efforts as those of a fighter, who after all could not help but recognize in the adoption of many of his theories and practices thruout the land, so many battles won.

The other speakers, though tending each upon a specific episode in Dr. Sargent’s life, all pictured the same tenacity of purpose and paid glowing tribute to him as the foremost figure in Physical Education in this country today. Those who spoke were: Professors Hanus and Hart of Harvard, Professor Whittier of Bowdoin, Professor Putnam of Vassar, Miss Homans of Wellesley, Professor Median of Columbia, Dr. McCurdy of Springfield, Dr. Burdick, president of the American Physical Education Association, Dr. Fisher of the Boy Scouts of America, Mr. Johnson, a fellow home townsman. Miss Bancroft and Mr. Whitman, a Cambridge neighbor. Among the other guests, not members of the Sargent Alumni association were Professor Johnson of Harvard, Mr. Nissen, Dr. Maroney, Dr. Leonard, Dr. Savage, Dr. Crampton, Major Landon, Mr. Eber-hard and Dr. Hartwell.

During the course of the banquet a telegram was read from Maj. Pierce, President of the Intercollegiate association, offering congratulations for that body. After the last speaker representing the student body of the Sargent School had finished, Mrs. Longfellow, president of the Sargent Alumni Association, presented Dr. Sargent with a handsomely bound complimentary volume, containing besides a description of his life and bibliography of his writings, complimentary letters from a large number of his friends and admirers. With the singing of “Auld Lang Syne” this momentous occasion which will long be remembered by those who attended drew to a happy end.

January 14, 1920. The Editor, Mind & Body Publishing Co., New Ulm, Minn.

Dear Sir:

I want to ask the privilege through the pages of “Mind & Body” of thanking any of your possible subscribers for the congratulatory letters that they sent to me at the recent celebration of my fiftieth anniversary as an instructor in Physical Education. I want also to thank them most heartily for their contributions to the memorial volume presented to me on this joyous occasion.

It is these little acts of kindness and true regard that make us feel that life after all is well worth living.

I wish I could write everyone who has contributed so much to my happiness a personal letter in my own handwriting, but with writer’s cramp as one of my senile afflictions, this is impossible.

Sincerely yours,

D.	A. SARGENT.

Digitized by Google
421

Mr. Morris Berk writes that Dr. R. A. Allen, City Industrial Physical Director fort he Y. M. C. A. of Chicago has been elected President of the Cook County Amateur Athletic Federation for the year 1920.

Physical training in schools throughout the State of Michigan is provided in a recent act of the Michigan legislature. The law requires boards of education to engage competent instructors and-to provide the necessary place and equipment.

The Department of Physical Education of Harvard Uni* versity.—In the Harvard Alumni Bulletin we find the following description of the reorganized physical training department of this-university.

William H. Geer, Director of the Department of Physical Education, which is this year inaugurating the system of compulsory athletics for freshmen in Harvard College, graduated from Carleton College, Northfield, Minn., in 1908 with the degree of S. B. He was manager of the football team, and was on the track team throughout his course, running in the half-mile and mile events. He received the degree of B. P. E. from Springfield Y. M. C. A. College in 1913.

Mr. Geer was science instructor and athletic director in the Austin, Minn., High School during the year following his graduation from Carleton. From 1910 to 1912 he was secretory and physical director in the Government Recreation Clubhouses of the Canal Zone, Panama. Then he became director of physical training and supervisor of playgrounds of the public schools in MountVemon, N. Y., a post he retained until 1917. He was also superintendent of recreation of the public recreation commission of the same city. From 1917 to the time of his Harvard appointment, he was Assistant State Inspector of Physical Training of the Military Training Commission of New York, and he has been the State Supervisor of Physical Education in the New York Department of Education. For the past three years Mr. Geer has been also a lecturer in the Syracuse, N. Y., University Summer School of Physical Education and he was lecturer in the Y. M. C. A. Summer School of Physical Education, Silver Bay, N. Y., in 1918.

Associated with Mr. Geer in the newly-organized department are the following assistants: Dr. Paul Withington, '09, Dr. Derric

C.	Parmenter, '13, Daniel J. Kelly, Norman W. Fradd, Carl L. Schrader, Harry Elpert, J. L. Danguy, Robert B. Miller and Larry Conley. Mr. Kelly is general assistant, and has immediate supervision of the inter-dormitory “all-round” championship competition. Mr. Fradd gives special corrective exercises to those men whose medical and physical examinations indicate a need for such work. He also assists in the freshman physical training sections. Mr.

Digitized by VjOOQle
422

Schrader assists in these sections, and is instructor of the 4 and 5 o’clock gymnasium classes for all University students. Dr. With-ington assists Dr. Roger I. Lee, Professor of Hygiene with the medical examinations, and he is head coach of the freshman football squad. Dr. Parmenter also assists Dr. Lee directly, and he is a member of the coaching staff of the university football team. Both Dr. With-ington and Dr. Parmenter give general assistance in the prescribed physical training for freshmen. . Mr. Elpert gives instruction in swimming, handball and squash. Mr. Danguy gives instruction in fencing to the freshmen. Mr. Miller meets groups in the freshman sections. Mr. Conley gives instruction in boxing to the freshmen who have elected that exercise during the winter season.

As a result of the new plan, three-fifths of the men in the freshman class are actively engaged in organized athletics this autumn. The other two-fifths are reporting three days a week to the instructors in physical training, and are taking part in games of their own choice. Eighty freshmen are playing football; 17 are playing soccer; 28, baseball; 9, lacrosse; 39, track athletics and cross country; and 145 are engaged in rowing. All these men are reporting everyday to regular coaches and getting 5 to 10 hours a week of athletic exercise.

“CLIMATE DOCTORS” THE LATEST TERM FOR AIR CONDITIONING ENGINEERS.

The fame achieved by “the mechanical weather man” of the Carrier Air Conditioning Corporation, of New York, has brought a new conception to many of the functions of the air conditioning engineer. A characterization equally apt is the title of “climate doctor,” which has been adopted by an engineering firm also specializing in this field.

Every material, it is pointed out, is affected by temperature and moisture, which often react detrimentally to the finished product, as well as diminishing the efficiency of the workers. Many progressive manufacturers, in varied lines of industry, have recently solved this troublesome problem. Every day in the year has been made an ideal working day. The climate has been made to suit the material and the man.

The right of air conditioning engineers to the title of “climate doctors” is presented at length in an unusually readable booklet recently published by the W. L. Fleisher Company.

A cough drop, the booklet states, is a little thing. But it costs several thousand dollars a day to interrupt the all-year-round production of a big Eastern cough-drop factory. And whenever the east wind blew in summer and the humid atmosphere settled down over that cough-drop factory like a damp blanket, production was interrupted in the packing room.

Cough drops are packed by automatic machinery. The operation makes a certain amount of candy dust. On a hot, humid day this dust became sticky, gumming up the machinery and stop-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
423

ping work. Moreover, such weather conditions caused graining and loss of transparency in hard candy.

A climate doctor was called in for consultation. It is his business to deliver a uniform climate in any place where the fluctuations of Nature's climate make trouble in processes. You show him what you manufacture, and tell him whether you want a warm climate or a cool one, a dry climate or unvarying humidity all the year round. He draws up an exact specification, so many degrees Fahrenheit and so many grains of moisture per cubic foot of air, and by the installation of interesting new mechanical devices he can give you what you want and guarantee delivery.

When the cough-drop factory got its artificial climate, candy dust was as hard as sand and could be picked up by vacuum cleaners when it accumulated round the machines, and the candy itself, once in its cartons, kept its quality indefinitely, there being no difficulty with graining.

There is a much wider demand for climate in industry than is generally known. The climate doctor has not been on the job very long. Many manufacturers struggling with obscure process troubles do not even suspect that they are due to climate variations, much less know that the climate doctor might be called in to help them.

Some industries make climates of their own which are fairly uniform—but highly objectionable.

At one nickel-plating plant, where cyanogen gas was given off in large quantities, workmen had to wear gas masks constantly. When an air-conditioning system was installed the warm air diluted the gas before it could rise to the workers’ waists, and rendered it harmless. Men in that plant have been working without masks for more than a year with no discomfort or poisoning.

The first step in manufacturing a climate is usually to take the natural moisture out of the air. Even where you want a given percentage of moisture it is easiest to remove from your air the uncertain and varying percentage of natural moisture, and then replace it with just the number of grains of water per cubic foot required. One way of drying air is by heat, but that is expensive, and for most purposes you have to cool the air again. When engineers began to develop this new speciality they quickly adopted another method—that of freezing the moisture out of air by passing it over refrigerating coils.

One of the first applications of this method was in the steel industry, where it was found that fluctuations in the moisture of air in blast furnaces and converters caused costly heat losses, and sometimes variations in the quality of steel. On a humid day about 4 to 5 gallons of water are carried into a modem blast furnace every minute—equal to what will constantly run out of your kitchen faucet.

Freezing did the business, but there was a drawback: Moisture taken out of the air froze to the refrigerator coils; and as ice is an insulator against heat, the refrigerator coils ultimately became

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
424

so thickly coated that they would not work at ail, and the ice had to be removed. Nor was it possible by this system to regulate accurately the temperature of the air or the amount of moisture taken out of it.

The latest and best device sounds paradoxical: Moisture is washed out of the air by sprays of water. The contrivance is called a dehumidifier. It is a big boxlike affair with whirling sprays of water through which you blow the air that is the raw material of your artificial climate. The water sprays are made cold by refrigerating pipes in the dehumidifier. They cool the natural air to any temperature required, and also take out most of the moisture. The spray water then flows over refrigerating coils and is cooled again. Because there is a constant flow over the coils the latter have no opportunity to be coated with insulating frost or ice. The air still has some moisture, but this is removed by mechanical means—passing it over baffles and other devices. Should the air require more moisture or a higher temperature, this is supplied by simply reheating it to the required point.

There is a definite relation between humidity and the temperature of the air. For example, photographic film requires a drying temperature not higher than 80 degrees F., and a humidity of about four grains of moisture per cubic foot of air. Summer weather runs to 95 degrees temperature and as much as eleven grains of moisture per cubic foot of air—which is far too much! So the summer air is cooled down by sprays of water to 50 degrees, then saturated at that point, or permitted to take up all the moisture it will hold at 50 degrees. Then it is reheated to 80 degrees, which gives it about 35 degrees relative humidity. And there is your climate!

It is the practical applications that are most interesting. When mother mixes a batch of bread she cannot tell in advance just when it will be ready for the oven, because the rising of a batch of bread is really an agricultural operation. Yeast spores are planted in the favorable soil of the dough, and the rising of their crop depends upon atmospheric conditions, and these vary with the weather. One day the growth will be quick and healthy, and another day slow and poor.

In a great baking establishment, with hundreds of employees working on schedule, weather variations often delay the dough, so that it is not ready upon schedule, and employees and machinery are idle, and even bread deliveries to customers affected. By furnishing a uniform climate for the dough rooms of bakeries, with high humidity and fairly high temperature, it is possible to raise dough on a schedule that standardizes the whole baking process.

The same improvement has been extended to the factories where photographic film, dry plates, and sensitized paper are made. What is good for the gelatin on a movie film is also good for the gelatin in medical capsules, which also had bad habits during hot, moist weather. So the capsule manufacturers bought some climate. Then it was discovered that many drugs kept better in the artificial climate, and so they bought climate for their pharmaceutical storerooms and workrooms—and so the good work went on!

Digitized by t^ooQle
425

It enables chocolate factories to work all year round, free from heat and humidity troubles, and keeps chocolate drops from turning gray and distilling the oil from their coatings. It facilitates delicate testing work in laboratories and the weighing of things on balances which weigh to the fifth or sixth decimal place.

That sort of balance will indicate the weight of the gum on a postage stamp, but it must be used in an absolutely uniform atmosphere. In cold-storage plants it prevents the drying out of food products, not only keeping them in better condition, but saving millions of dollars formerly lost by packers who bought steers by the pound, put the meat away in cold storage, and later discovered that it had shrunk in weight through drying in the coolers.

BOOK REVIEW

Education for Character by Frank Chapman Sharp Ph. D., 453

pages, 5 by 7 1-2 inches. Published by the Bobbs-Merrill Company, Indianapolis. Price $1.50.

In the preface, the author who is professor of philosophy at the University of Wisconsin, says that the subject matter of the book is a part of the great problem how to develop in children and young people their latent capacities for good.

A perusal of the headings of the different chapters will give the reader an idea of the scope of the book. The place of moral instruction in the school; The personality of the teacher; The teacher as a friend; The love of the school. In part II come chapters devoted to discussions of Discipline, Pupil Government, Mutual Aid, Service, etc. Part III takes up the details of moral instruction, and Part IV speaks of the part that the home plays in this instruction. Exercises, a bibliography and an index form the end of this interesting and valuable book.

Our Nervous Friends by Dr. Robert T. Carroll, 258 pages, 5 by 7 1-2 inches. Published by the Mac Millan Company, New York. Price $2.00.

In a recent issue we called the attention of our readers to another book by Dr. Carroll entitled “The Soul in Suffering. In the course of his professional work thousands of interesting cases have come under the care and observation of the author and out of his successful mental principles. These principles have been made the basis of the chapters of this book.

Writing in semi-fiction form the author, who is Medical Director of the Highland Hospital of Asheville, N. C., portrays, with photographic clearness, the life stories of people addicted to nervousness. His method of presentation arouses the reader’s interest at once—there is humor and real human drama in the pages. But Dr. Carroll’s chapters have more than a fictional interest; each makes a definite point, brings home a lesson, shows the way out.

The book will be valuable to those who wish to understand their “Nervous Friends” and who are looking for a guide to tell them how they can help these unfortunates..

Digitized by Google
GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

By FRED E. FOERTSCH, Pittsburg, Pa.

HURDLING AS A PART OF THE CLASS WORK.

Hurdling as one of the forms of athletics to be used in the regular program on the gymnasium floor adds greatly to the interest and recreative value of a lesson. Oftentimes, especially in the high school where the periods are short, it may be given in place of a game or it may be used in the various relay races. Boys as low as ten years of age, girls of high school age and young men will find this form of activity enjoyable.

The use of jumping standards in place of hurdles will allow adjustment suited to the ability of the class. The primary purpose is to eliminate the fear which is so prominent in beginners where attempting to jump or pass over an obstacle while running. The ultimate aim is to acquire skill and speed in hurdling objects of greater heights and placed at various distances. Once the primary purpose is accomplished the ultimate aim may be rapidly approached by a gradual readjustment of the apparatus and a steady progression of the exercises.

It is not the purpose here to have the individual approach the first hurdle or to pass from one hurdle to another in a definite number of steps arbitrarily set. The essential point is to have each pupil judge with the eye the distance to the hurdle and adjust the steps accordingly. To give piactice in judgment the distance in the approach and the distance between the hurdles should be varied from time to time.

The following progression has been used successfully and may lead to further suggestions not included here:

1.	Running and leaping over a space marked off by two parallel, lines, the nearer one serving as a take-off and the farther one as a landing mark. The distance between the two lines should be somewhat greater than that of an ordinary running step. The pupils should learn to take-off on one foot and land on the other immediately resuming the running step. It is often necessary to emphasize the importance of malong a good effort at taking a good sized step immediately following the landing.

2.	Walking to the up cross-bar of the jumping standard, stepping over it and continuing. Eighteen inches from the floor is a convenient height for the cross-bar.

3.	As 2, but with a moderate running step.

4.	Marking a line on the floor on the near side of the jumping standard and about three feet away from it. This line is to be used as a take-off in hurdling and prevents the hurdler from approaching too close. When the height of the hurdle is increased, it becomes necessary to move the take-off farther back.

Digitized by t^.ooQLe
427

5.	Short dashes using the crouch start and one hurdle.

6.	Using two hurdles with an intervening distance sufficient to allow three running steps.

7.	After a reasonable amount of skill has been acquired two crossbars may be used with each set of jumping standards. The one should be raised to the level of the hurdlers’ head when standing and the other bar over which he hurdles should be gradually raised from eighteen inches to two feet. The upper cross tar is a mechanical device to prevent the hurdler from leaping too high.

All of the above forms of hurdling (except walking as in 2) may be used in the following games:

a.	Races.

b.	Shuttle relay races.

c.	Relay races each individual hurdling both ways.

d.	As b, and c, each individual carrying a bean bag or an

indian club.

WHY NOT A STANDARD NOMENCLATURE OF DANCING?

By W. E. TURNER, Aberdeen, S. Dakota.

Dancing in all its forms is rapidly becoming an accepted part of all well balanced programs of physical training. Articles and dances appear in “Mind and Body’’ and other publications regularly and it is quite a puzzle to know what the writer means by some of the terms used and the positions given. These published dances are valuable, or would be, if there were any certainty as to what the terms mean. Any instructor can compose his or her own dances, but alter a time there becomes a sameness about them and then a composition from outside is most welcome. However, a dance or drill that is not clear better not occupy valuable space.

In a dance recently published I find the movement of the first measure of the music written thus: “Measure 1. Point left foot forward, arms in first position.” Fine! But what do you mean by “first position?” In one system that is becoming popular in this country it would mean, arms forward. In another it would mean, arms down in front of the body. In one of these systems there are only three positions of the arms given. All others are combinations of these three. Any that are not covered in this way are not mentioned at all. It seems that it might be worth while to determine which system is best and adopt that system as standard.

The writer believes that there is no system now in use that is more practical and sensible than that of Zorn, as written in his book, “The Grammar of the Art of Dancing.” Every possible position of the feet and arms is covered in a systematic manner. The positions of the feet are, I believe, the same in all systems. In the Zorn method he combines some of the foot positions as 2-4 which would be half way between these two positions. The arms positions begin with the arms down at the sides or slightly in front of the body. This is first position. Second is half way between first and shoulder high. Third, is shoulder high. Fourth, is halfway between third

Digitized by
428

and the vertical position. Fifth, is nearly overhead. Third amplified is shoulder high and to the side. Third amplified is an open position and in the open positions the degree to which the arms may be opened is indicated by letters, “a" being the third position and “e” being the third amplified position. Intermediate, is one arm in fifth position and the other in first. The position is named for the arm that is above. Intermediate amplified, is one arm in fourth position and the other in the opposite position backward. The position is named for the arm that is forward.

In naming the arm positions it might be well to use numbers and abbreviations. In case the arms are not both in the same position the left should be put down first. Arms 3-5 would then mean, left arm in third and the right in fifth positions. Arms 5-3a would be, left in fifth and right in third amplified. This would simplify matters in writing the directions.

At the present time several schools of dancing have their own ‘‘method” with the result that there is no understanding their work unless you have had it in that particular school. The reason for that sort of thing is obvious. One school issues a set of books on dancing. The music is given and a set of notes included that are not self explanatory and are entirely unintelligible. One who buys such a course of dancing finds that he has been sold a lot of sheet music at a rather high price.

Music is written the same the world over. Why should not the same be true of dancing? Before dancing can become one of the true arts it must be systematized. This article will by no means solve the problem. It will be hard for some to give up their favorite method to adopt some other method. Personally the writer hopes that something will be developed that will be more complete and scientific than any of the existing methods. Perhaps the good points of all could be combined with what additions would be necessary to make the thing complete.

The accompanying dance is written according to the above system and is given as an illustration of the same. It is a very simple dance, composed for technique practice.

THE DORIS FANTASY.

Music: Humoresque, Dvorak.

Count the measures thus: One, and, two, and, three, and, four, and. Preparation: Stand with the left foot in fifth, and the arms in first position.

Part One

1.	Three steps obliquely forward left, and point the right foot

in fourth position, raise arms to 3a then to 3a-3.... 1	M.

2.	Same opposite......................................... 1	M.

3.	Step-draw diagonally left backward twice, arms 3a-3.... 1 M.

4.	Step right backward into fourth position (rear) and bow,

arms to open first (c) position...................... 1	M.

5. Repeat all R, L, and R..................................12 M.

16 M.
429

Part Two

1.	Arabesque left (glide, balance, hop), and step backward right and hop, left leg is rased in fourth position forward, arms in left intermediate amplified and left intermediate 1 M.

2.	Cross step left sideways and point right foot in fourth,

arms, 3a-3...........................................  1	M.

3. Same opposite ........................................ 1	M.

4.	Pirouette left and point left in fourth, arms 5 to 3-3a.... 1 M.

5.	Repeat all..........................................   4	M.

Part Three.

8 M.

1.	Change step (waltz) twice diagonally left forward, arms

3-3a and 3a-3................................................. 1	M.

2.	Courtesy left and right,	arms 3a-3	and 3-3a................. 1	M .

3.	Three step turn left and	point right	in fourth, arms 5-3a....	1	M.

4.	Three step turn right and point left	in fourth, arms 5-3a....	1	M.

5.	Repeat all.................................................... 4	M.

1.	Schottische forward left and right,	arms	3a. 1	M.

2.	Side step and cross throw hop left and right (1-&; 2-&),

two step-draw steps left sideways	(3-&;	4-&), arms 3a. .. 1 M.

3.	Repeat 1 and 2 starting right.......................... 2	M.

4.	Repeat all..............................................4	M.

5.	Eight little steps on toes to the left side, left foot in front,

arms 5-3a.............................................. 1	M.

6.	Step throw sideways left and right, arms 5-2 and 2-5 (1-&; 2-&), step draw left sideways and point right in

fifth on count four, arms 3a to 1-5...................  1	M.

7.	Repeat 5 and 6 starting right........................   2	M.

8.	Repeat 5, 6 and 7..................... ................ 4	M.

Same as Part One.

Part Five.

16 M.

Note:In part one, measure four, first position (c) would mean half way between the closed first position in front of body and the full open or side position.

Editorial Comment: It will be a difficult matter to develop a uniform arm nomenclature in such forms of dancing as are taught by professional dancing teachers; namely, the aesthetic or classic, interpretative, national or folk dancing. The French, Italian and Russian schools each have their own terminology for the different arm positions; on the other hand there is little difference in their terminology for foot and leg positions or movements. An effort was made by Mr. Emil Rath of Indianapolis some time ago to collect and amplify the existing terms used in gymnastic dancing, thruout the country. These results were published in “Mind and Body"

Digitized by v^ooQle
430

and the terms have become fairly popular. They deal primarily with names of dance steps and foot and leg movements used in gymnastic dancing, and were to some extent translations of foreign (French) terms. Numbered positions were entirely eliminated. It is only by clearly designating arm movements in dancing in this same manner and as is done in free exercises that a terminology will be developed which is easily understood by all.

INDIAN CLUB EXERCISES.

By GUSTAVE BOJUS, Jereey City, N. J.

Group I.

(With one club.)

1.	Club in left hand. Arm circle left-1, hand circle left rear of shoulder -2, arm circle left -3, grasp club with both hands in the upward position and bring left forward -4, lower trunk half forward -5, raise trunk -6, replace left foot and arm circle left to starting position -7, -8.

Grasp club with right hand on count 8, then repeat the exercise right -9, -16.

2.	Club in left hand. Arm circle right -1, hand circle right rear of shoulder -2, arm circle right -3, grasp club with both hands in upward position and lunge left sideward -4, bend trunk left -5, straighten trunk -6, replace left foot and arm circle left inward to starting position -7, -8.

Repeat right -9, -16.

3.	Club in left hand. Arm circle left -1, hand circle left rear of shoulder -2, arm circle left -3, inner hand circle forward in the upward position with lunging left obliquely forward -4, arm circle left obliquely forward in front of body -5, arm circle left obliquely forward in rear of body -6, arm circle left obliquely forward in front of body to starting position with raising left foot -7, -8.

Repeat right -9, -16.

4.	Club in left hand. Arm circle right -1, hand circle right rear of shoulder -2, arm circle right -3, lunge left sideward grasping dub with both hands in upward position -4, lower trunk forward -5, raise trunk -6, replace left foot with arm cirde right to starting position -7, -8.

Repeat right -9, -16.

Group II.

(With two clubs.)

1.	3-4 arm circle left outward and tip club on fore arm -1 -2, same right -3 -4, straighten arms upward and double arm circle inward -5, double hand circle inward rear of shoulder -6, double arm circle inward to starting position -7-8.

Repeat -9, -16.

2.	3-4 arm circle left inward and tap club on forearm -1 -2, same right -3 -4; 3-4 double arm circle outward -5, double hand circle

Digitized by
431

outward rear of shoulder -7, double arm circle outward to starting

t -9, -16.

3.	3-4 double arm circle left and tip clubs -1 -2, swing arms downward and to the left, (right arm in rear of body) -3, swing arms downward and to the right -4; 1 1-4 double arm circle left -5, double hand circle left rear of shoulders -6, double arm circle left to starting position -7 -8.

Repeat right -9, -16.

4.	3-4 arm circle left inward and tip club on forearm -1 -2; 3-4 arm circle right outward and tip club on forearm -3 -4, retip clubs, swing arms downward and double hand circle left front of arms -5; 11-2 double arm circle left to starting position -6 -8.

Repeat right -9, -16.

It is easy enough to be steady and cool,

When another must suffer the blow.

It is easy enough to establish the rule By which other people should go.

But the test of a man and the proof of his creed Is not the advice that he gives,

Nor the wisdom he utters to others in need,

But solely the way that he lives.

The cheat often warns the young boy to be true;

There are sinners who preach against sin;

There are smug men who talk of the right thing to do Yet they’ll trample down honor to win.

There are thousands who know what is noblest and bes Yet they fail in the heat of the strife.

Forgetting, when standing face front to the test,

That the best sort of preaching is life.

The finest of sermons are those that men live,

The greatest of lessons are learned

From the sterling examples of truth that men give,

And the unworthy joys they have spurned.

For vain are the words of your counseling fair,

And lost are your messages true,

Unless day by day in dealings they square Four ways to the things that you do.

You must live as you say you want others to live,

You must set an example of truth,

You must back with your deeds the advice that you give, For keen are the eyes of youth.

And they see what Age fancies at times is unseen,

They know what Age thinks is unknown;

The only way to win them to lives that are clean Is to have a clean life of your own.

in -8.

EXAMPLE.

EDWARD A. GUEST.

Digitized by

Google
Gymnasium Apparatus Playground Equipment Steel Lockers

Years of intensive specializing in these particular lines have made MEDART products pre-eminent—the first choice of those who know—and who consider quality and permanence as well as price.

Write For Catalog “L“

It is a recognized guide on Gymnasium, Playground, Swimming Pool and Locker Room planning, equipment and operation. Sent on request to those who are interested. Write for it on your letterhead.

Fred Medart Mfg. Co.

35W D«Kalb St., St, Louis, Mo.

Established

1873

THE CHICAGO NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATIU

FOR WOMEN ONLY	ESTABLISHED 1903

FRANCES MUSSELMAN, Principal TWO YEAR NORMAL COURSE—REGISTRATION SEPTEMBER 25 end FEBRUARY 8 Assradltsd by State Department of Public Instruction. Theoretical and practical Raining fta aB branches of physical education, preparing young wmn to bscome Directors of Phyeleel Edneatien in Public and Private Schools, Colleges and Universities, Young Womens’ Ckrhnhm Ism flatten ■ and Playgrounds. A atrang faculty of tsarhere with a national raputatian, Hun dvads of our graduatm are bolding reapooaibU positions in tbs beat inatitutiona of the reentry, Eicaptionally fine dormitory for non-rerident students.

SIX WEEKS SUMMER TERM for ItSt speu JUNE 2g SUMMER CAMP IN MICHIGAN Foe eatalege addreae Rogietrar, 4M 8. Wabeoh Avs., Chioago.

CATALOG UPON REQUEST

CHICAGO

| Gymnasium Equipment

COMPANY

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND OUTFITTERS THEO. A. GROSS, President 1040 W. Lake St.	CHICAGO