MIND AND BODY

VoL 36	December, 1929	No.	382

PUBU8HKD BT lOND AND BODY PUBLISHINO CO., NSW ULlf, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered os eecond-claee matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

i*——■■	■	 -	-■	—<>

Original articles and reprint^

ARE ATHLETICS A NUISANCE? Possible Ways Of Improving Conditions

By Karl E. Whinnery, Principal High School, Sandusky

Not long ago Mr. Will Rogers, who makes many pertinent comments on current affairs, said, “Do you know that athletics are getting to be almost as great a nuisance as politics?” Mr. Rogers referred to interscholastic athletics which is the subject to be treated in this discussion. The famous humorist always gives credit to the newspapers for all that he knows. This source of information would certainly convince one that athletics are a nuisance. The notice they give this activity is opt of all proportion to its importance. I am unable to tell you how many times greater the newspaper space given to the selection of a new coach at our state university was than that given to the choosing of a new president a few years before. One might easily conclude that the chief duty of the president is to manage the student body and have it on hand to give color to the big games in the stadium. If one were to judge by newspaper publicity, he

Digitized by VoiOOQle
250

would get the idea that by far the greater part of the energy of the schools and colleges throughout the country is devoted to interscholastic athletics. I am not criticising the newspapers, but the situation which they portray.

If our reader goes in for periodicals rather than newspapers, he might have noticed the growing number of articles which voice a dissatisfaction with athletic conditions in our schools. I will quote from some of these in this article. All have appeared in leading magazines in recent months.

There are many features of the athletic situation in this countiy today which are rightly described by the word nuisance. But like politics, even though a nuisance, they are with us and we must make the best of them. I do not say this with any attitude of resignation. Sometimes the heads of our schools are very much responsible for bad conditions. We may have to buck against a sport-mad public and a press which is willing to keep them in a state of frenzy but still we can not simply stand aside and say that the problem is beyond us.

In recent years we have been trying to analyze and evaluate the work of our schools. We have been submitting courses of study and methods of instruction to severe tests. We no longer accept the fact that just because a subject or a practice has been in use for a long time, it is therefore right and good. I need not mention the many items about which such controversies are going on today.

Athletics occupy a large place in our school program and have been accepted without much question. The first thing we should do is to see just where a program of interscholastic athletics fits in with the general school objectives, if at all. Under which of the seven cardinal aims are they to be included?

The first of the seven aims that comes to mind is health. There has been a great deal of discussion about the physical benefits of our major sports for those taking part. There have been studies of vital statistics trying to prove that athletes live longer, and studies trying to prove that they do not live as long as people who never indulged in strenuous games. We are quite safe in saying that no demonstrated physical improvement has been shown. What justification would we have for so much emphasis upon the physical training of such a small percentage of our boys, even if we could be shown that they are benefited by it?

Supporters of our major sports have made much of the development. of character, moral courage, honesty, fair play, et cetera. Again we ask whether, even if these claims were right, we could justify this outlay of time and money for the character training of so few boys.

However, I think these claims of character building are not justified. We can point to many fine characters who have played football, but after encountering so many who have played just as much football but who are not so fine, one is led to suspect that the former were right good boys before they played the game.

Digitized by boogie
251

All we need to do is to look over our own schools and be honest with ourselves, and we will be convinced that football does not do so much to improve character. The fact is that football players are frequently our main sources of trouble. It seems to me that when we look into the character training of football, the balance might be on the other side of the ledger. Good characters probably are not spoiled by the game and may be helped by it. On the other hand, are not some of the weaker characters made worse? The publicity and adulation they receive are out of all proportion to their services to society and are more than their characters can stand. Mr. Ramsey Traquair, Professor at McGill University, says in the Atlantic Monthly for March:

"We may suppose that our boy is a manly young fellow with plenty of physical strength and already with some reputation as a school boy athlete. So he becomes a college athlete. In most colleges he will be told very plainly that he has a ‘duty to his college’ and that that duty is football. To him, naturally, this seems a pleasant duty, and he rarely hesitates.

So he enters a world of popularity, where he shines as a hero. Endless attractive girls run after him. They "make dates” with him, make him feed them and dance with them with that complete absence of modesty which is characteristic of their sex. He is feted and he is disciplined. Provided that he does his "duty” on the football field, his merely scholastic tasks will be made as easy as possible for him. Very few have the strength of character to withstand popularity, and if the exceptional boy attempts to do so, social pressure of a very severe kind soon brings him back to the right path. It is on the whole a misfortune for a boy to become a star athlete, and particularly a star football player. His strength and his pleasure in using it are turned into a trap. If he emerges uncrippled, he may turn to bond selling while his popularity lasts; then, his name forgotten and his strength useless, he may make what he can of life. It says a great deal for many athletes that they do make something of their lives, but every university teacher knows of men whose careers have been spoiled by athletics.”

I see no evidence that the type of courage necessary to play a good game of football carries over into moral courage to do the right thing in everyday activities of life.

During the war one heard a great deal about the war being won on the football fields of America. The British said it was won on the cricket fields of England. Both are wild assertions. Having been closely associated with two hundred and fifty men for almost two years during the war, I failed to note the superior military qualifications of the athletes.

I seriously doubt whether any of the claims for character building by major sports can be substantiated. It has become a standing joke aong the leading college coaches of the country to say of a coach who has had a bad season, that “he is building character this year.”

Digitized by Google
252

There is not much of a character-building atmosphere about bidding for football players and offering them various ways to get through school. It cannot help but have a bad effect on the character of the boy, who is thus made to feel that he is entitled to special privileges on account of his athletic ability.

In a recent number of the North American Review a former coach tells of the extremes to which colleges will go to get athletes. He tells of making a good offer to a high school boy from his alma mater. The boy was wise and thought he could do better. The coach said that pressure would be brought on his father who was under business obligations to a banker, an alumnus of the school represented by the coach. This is an extreme case, but such things are being done. What are the characterbuilding features of such a situation?

My contention is that there are probably good reasons for having major sports, but that building character of the participants is not of them, and that unless athletics are well under control of strong coaches and strong school administrations the characters of some of the boys will be spoiled rather than improved.

We cannot justify interscholastic athletics on the grounds of physical training or character building. Let us consider another claim. It develops community spirit and loyalty, which would come under the general aim of good citizenship. This will arrest our attention more than the two preceding claims, for it has a wider application. It includes spectators as well as players. This emotional phase of athletics, this loyalty to the school and its colors with its songs and bands, et cetera, is a thing of importance and value. We, however, cannot say to the people of our communities that we have an athletic program for this reason, and thereby feel that we are justified. It is a mighty big problem for us to see that the loyalty and enthusiasm behind our teams is of the right kind. I have seen many leatherlunged fans who were strong supporters of the teams, but who were good for nothing else around school. In fact, they were poor school citizens. We can serve this aim of good citizenship if our games are so conducted that our loyalty is always tempered with fair and courteous treatment of our visitors and the game officials. If it is not, it will develop a bad spirit between communities. This is not the purpose of the public schools. To make our games serve to create a spirit of friendliness and fair play is not an easy matter, but it is our plain duty to strive to make them do so. Athletic contests must be put on the plane of host and guest, and not that of warring tribes. If our home schools always remembered that they are hosts, and visitors remembered that they are guests, most of the unpleasantness of interschool games would be eliminated. Athletics may serve the aim of good citizenship, but do they?

Another proper claim for our games is that they offer wholesome recreation for players and spectators. There are many

Digitized by
253

worse things which our pupils and other people might do with their leisure time. Again, however, this aim will be served only if the game is properly conducted. We should remember that we must teach our pupils and adults, if possible, to appreciate a game as a game. If it assumes the proportion of an inter-city feud, it is not serving a school aim.

The recreational effects of varsity games are broader than the staging of the games themselves. They serve as models for intramural programs and for many scattering contests in which great numbers of persons take part. These games are of a milder nature, and, hence, are of greater value to the participants. Those of us who have played and learned to understand games know that we have thereby received lifelong recreational interests.

These two aims of good sportsmanship or good citizenship and the wise use of leisure time are legitimate reasons for our athletic programs. We should remember, however, before we go into this activity too heavily for these reasons, that in most of our schools the majority of our pupils do not attend our games, and that we are still dealing with a minority of those for whose training we are responsible. If we let the sports of the city and the sport-loving pupils make an athletic club of our school, we are ignoring the immediate interests of most of the people in the city and most of our pupils. The first signs of revolt to our top-heavy athletic situation seem to be coming from the students themselves. I have direct information that some fraternities are limiting the number of prospective athletes to be initiated. The student body of a state university recently voted down a students club designed to “boost” for better teams. The sport-loving public is largely responsible for the over-emphasis of athletics. What can we do about it?

President George Norlin of the University of Colorado said recently:

“We must all of us—students, faculties, alumni and governing boards—we must all of us face the fact that in our efforts to carry out an honest policy we are dealing with a veiy difficult problem, to some minds an impossible problem. The interest in intercollegiate contests is so tremendous; it organizes itself into forces that are so powerful; it expresses itself in storms of emotions which are so hard to stand up against, that some of us throw up our hands, and let the winds carry us whither they list.

“But to my mind the question is too vital to be dismissed in any such spirit of helplessness. To my mind—and I think that you will agree with me—a college or university which allows itself to be dishonest merely because it is very difficult to go straight has lost its reason for existence.”

While our problem is not exactly the same as that of the colleges, it is not less important. What can we do to improve the athletic situation in our schools? First, I wish to state that the last ten years have seen a great improvement. Our state board has passed some regulations which have been a great help. The most important thing has been the employment of a full-

Digitized by LjOOQle
254

time secretary whose efficient service is recognized by the whole state. The things which remain to be done are those which cannot be accomplished by our state board or our commissioner. They are home problems.and must be handled by local authorities.

Let us get down to facts about the physical and moral training value of our games and recognize that the only school aims to be served are good citizenship and good use of leisure time, and that these are served only with well-conducted games.

We must, of course, enforce the rules of our association, and the most important of these are those dealing with scholarship and "Rule Nine” which says, "a pupil whose character of conduct is such as to reflect discredit upon the school is not eligible.” Enforcement of these rules depends almost wholly upon the standards of the individual schools. Laxity in this matter has bad results on the general tone of the school and upon the boys concerned.

A careful analysis of the situation will show that anything that comes uder the head of nuisance in athletics is traceable to overemphasis. It accounts for the excitement around our schools and colleges, which many times seriously interferes with our real work. It leads to the evils of bidding for stars and to the hypocrisy connected with amateur rules. It frequently causes boys with weaker characters to be spoiled by too much publicity and adulation.

It is our duty to meet this problem directly by taking every opportunity to play down this over-emphasis.

There are too many pep meetings on school time. Pupils cannot help but get a wrong notion of the importance of this side issue if week after week during an athletic season school time is taken to laud the “heroes,” and to have the student body told that they are slackers if they do not dig down and buy tickets for the games. This sort of thing is not particularly good for the “heroes” either. An occasional rally is all right. Even at these there should be little mention of the sacrifice of the boys “who are working their heads off” for the school. Most boys on the teams are there because they like the game and would do anything to play. If they do not like it, they should not play. No boy should be shamed into going out for a team, nor should pressure be brought on pupils to attend games which they do not enjoy. These games are recreation for player and spectator, and every person has a right to choose in this matter. Every effort should be made throughout the state to prevent games—yes, even tournament games—from being played during school time. Pupils are justified in getting the idea that athletics are of first importance if school is dismissed for contests. Opponents of high school education are justified in thinking, as some do, that the pupils learn to do nothing but play and are spoiled for real work.

Principals and teachers must see to it that athletes are not given special privileges around school. The public often does much to spoil them and give them an exaggerated idea of their

Digitized by Google
255

importance. This makes an extra problem for the school, but must be faced or the boy will be done an injustice.

A few years ago the National Honor Society was founded, with one of its aims to offset the emphasis being placed on athletics. This society and its aims are good, but a dozen organizations will not help a principal who cannot handle the situation in his own school. If good students are not looked upon with favor in a school, members of an interscholastic organization will not receive any more honor from their fellows. It is our duty to so handle our school program that good work is respected. This will best be done by minimizing the counter-attractions.

Principals must see to it that they do not appear to the public as mere managers of athletic teams fighting the battles of the home team with the referees and visitors’ team.

Athletics are a “side show of the main tent,” but unless great care is exercised, they may seriously interfere with the real work and purpose of the school. They are an impoKant feature of extra-class activities, but not as important as we sometimes think. Is the value of a high school or a college measured by the success of its teams? There are some very good secondary schools in this country where the interscholastic .athletic programs are little or nothing. We have some colleges and universities which are recognized as rendering great services in spite of the fact that they do not win their share of championships. In fact, there is plenty of evidence available from educational leaders that better school work is done when there are no championship threats.

We have done much to improve athletics in high schools and colleges. The largest task remaining is for each of us to do everything in his power to see that the pupils of our schools, and the public, too, if possible, understand that schools are not operated to provide amusement for the community, and that work is more important than play in school as well as out of it. Athletics are too valuable to be discarded entirely. The nuisance is over-emphasis. Let us save what is valuable by eliminating the nuisance.

PHYSICAL AND HEALTH EDUCATION

A Course given at the University of Hawaii, January to June 1929, involving the presentation and discussion of the fundamentals underlying physical education, health education and recreation.

By William A. Stecber, Instructor in charge.

(Continued from last month)

OUTLINE FOR A COURSE OF STUDY IN HEALTH EDUCATION

FOR GRADES ONE, TWO AND THREE

1.	Purpose:

The purpose of the work in health education is the forma-

Digitized by
256

tion and development of correct habits of living. The primary work of the teacher in grades one, two and three is habit formation, not the imparting of information. Stress is to be laid constantly upon health and health-producing conditions.

II.	Cooperation:

In every grade there should be close co-operation with the following divisions of school work:

a)	Medical Inspectors and School Nurses

b)	Nutrition

c)	Dental Hygiene

d)	Physical Education, including corrective exercises.

c) Buildings, including proper seating, lighting, ventilation, sanitation.

III.	Personal History Card:

In order to have an effective Health program, each child should receive a thorough physical examination when it enters school, and at least once a year thereafter. (For typical forms, see first installment)

This personal history card is to be kept in the school office so that any teacher may inspect it when necessary.

GRADE ONE

1.	Form fundamental personal health habits within the comprehension and experience of children first entering school.

2.	Cooperate with the special divisions functioning for the improvement of health.

I.	Health habits to be formed:

(a)	Personal cleanliness, embracing skin and appendages, teeth, nose, and mouth, elimination of waste, cloth-

. ing.

(b)	Environmental cleanliness, embracing school and home.

(c)	Proper posture while sitting, standing, walking, running.

(d)	Sleep, amount, condition and functions.

(e)	Fresh air and sunshine.

(f)	Work, play and rest.

(g)	Cheerfulness (mental hygiene).

(h)	Food and selection.

(i)	Prevention of Tuberculosis.

II.	Current Health Topics that may be used to emphasize personal or community health.

3.	The time allotment for this work should be one fifteen minute period a week.

GRADE TWO

The teacher of Grade Two is to continue, strengthen, and extend the work of the previous grade.

Digitized by L^ooQle
257

I. Health Habits to be formed:

(a)	Personal cleanliness: skin and appendages, teeth, nose and mouth, elimination of waste, clothing.

(b)	Environmental cleanliness: school, embracing desks, rubbish, spitting, door mats, toilets, home.

(c)	Posture

(d)	Sleep

(e)	Fresh air and sunshine

(f)	Work, Play and Rest

(g)	Foods and their selection

(h)	Mental habits

(i)	Care of Ears

II. Current Health Topics.

The time allotment for this work should be one fifteen minute period a week.

The teacher of Grade Three is to continue, strengthen, and extend the work of Grades One and Two.

I.	Health Habits to be formed:

(a)	Personal cleanliness:	skin and appendages, teeth,

nose and mouth, elimination of waste, clothing.

(b)	Environmental cleanliness: school, embracing desks, rubbish, spitting, door mats, toilets, home.

(c)	Posture

(d)

(e) Fresh Air and Sunshine

(f)	Work, play and rest

(g)	Food and development, embracing food habits, necessity of food, proper combinations.

(h)	Mental Habits

(i)	Care of Eyes

(j)	Care of Ears

(k)	Tuberculosis

II.	Current Health Topics

The time allotment for this work should be one fifteen minute period a week.

FOR GRADES FOUR, FIVE AND SIX

In Grades One, Two and Three the physiological reasons underlying health habits receive practically no attention. In Grade Four, however, an elementary study of parts, structures and functions of the body is begun. The purpose of this study is to present reasons why health habits should be formed. Facts of anatomy and physiology must be subordinated to the principles of hygiene.

GRADE THREE
258

GRADE FOUR

The aim is to continue and strengthen the health habits developed in the previous grades. Information concerning the skin, the bones, and the muscles is presented in order to develop principles of hygiene and to make the practice of specific health habits more intelligent and certain.

I.	Health Habits:

(a)	Personal cleanliness: skin and appendages, nose and mouth, teeth.

(b)	Environmental cleanliness.

(c)	Posture

(d)	Food,

(e)	Sleep

(f)	Fresh Air and Sunshine

II.	The skin: uses and hygiene.

III.	The bones: uses, composition, hygiene.

IV.	The muscles: uses, hygiene.

V. Current Health Topics in Physiology and Hygiene.

The time allotment for this work should be two twenty minute periods a week.

GRADE FIVE

The aim is to continue and strengthen the health habits developed throughout the previous grades.

Information concerning foods, digestion, circulation and disease germs is presented in order to develop principles of hygiene and to make tne practice of specific health habits more intelligent and certain.

I.	Health Habits and Hygiene:

Posture, Fresh Air and Sunshine, Personal Cleanliness, Environmental Cleanliness, Food, Sleep, Work, Play, Rest.

II. Foods: uses, diet, care of foods.

III.	The alimentary canal: what happens to foods in the alimentary canal, hygiene.

IV.	Teeth.

V.	The Blood and its circulation, uses, composition, movement, hygiene.

VI. Disease germs, what they are, how spread and carried, how they enter the body, how disease is produced, how body resists disease, how we can help body to prevent and resist disease.

VII. Current Topics in Physiology and Hygiene.

Time allotment, two twenty minute periods a week.

GRADE SIX

The aim is to continue and strengthen developed health habits.

Information is presented concerning respiration, elimination of waste, the nervous system and the special senses.

Digitized by i^.ooQLe
259

I.	Health Habits and Hygiene:

Personal cleanliness, environmental cleanliness, food, teeth, posture, exercise, sleep, fresh air and sunshine, eliminationof waste, work, play, rest.

II. Respiration, use, organs of respiration, how we breathe, how blood is purified, hygiene.

III.	Excretion, body wastes, how eliminated, hygiene.

IV. The Nervous System, how the body is controlled, nerves, brain, spinal cord, hygiene.

V. The Sense Organs, eye, ear, other sense organs.

VI. Current Topics in Physiology and Hygiene.

Time allotment, two twenty minute periods a week.

FOR GRADES SEVEN, EIGHT AND NINE (JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS)

The purpose of the work is the formation and development of correct habits of living as outlines for the lower grades. In the Junior High School grades this work is to be continued and elaborated as follows:

The specijfic object of the course is:

A.	To fix health habits.

a)	by supervision so as to prevent lapses

b)	to foster health habits peculiar to adolescence and maturity.

B.	To give additional health information.

C.	To develop a Health Consciousness

I	Instructional Topics and Material

1.	Structures of the Body, cells, bones, joints, muscles.

2.	Digestive system, respiratory system, circulatory system.

3.	The Skin

4.	The Nervous system, special senses

5.	Metabolism

6.	Infections

7.	First Aid

8.	Home, School, Community and Industrial Hygiene

9.	Childhood, Adolescence, Maturity

II	Current Topics in Physiology and Hygiene

Time allotment two twenty minute periods a week.

(To be continued)

EDUCATIONAL RELATIONS OF THE PROFESSIONS

David Allen Robertson, A. B., IX. D.

Assistant Director, American Council on Education Washington, D. C.

To American educational progress, specialization in various academic divisions has contributed greatly. With the increase of specialization, has come the danger of one educational unit isolat-

Digitized by CjOOQLe
260

ing itself from another. So far have we gone in creating departmental independence that is it regarded as a notable exception when departments cooperate in a study important to each, such as the one conducted in this city by professors of mathematics, physics, astronomy and geology. The independent college is constantly facing isolation from graduate and professional schools; and each of the latter from all the educational achievements in other divisions of the academic world. Conscious of the danger, some of these divisions have learned the importance of cooperat-ing in the solution of common problems, especially the colleges and the schools represented in the powerful regional associations.

Among the professions and professional schools the danger likewise exsts and to some extent has been met in the same way. A study of theological seminaries in the United States published in 1924 shows that these institutions, which prepare for one of the oldest of the learned professions, have indeed intensely specialized and thereby gained a degree of expertness in linguistic and philosophical subjects—particularly Latin, Greek, Hebrew’, systematic theology and church history. It shows also that these institutions, if one may judge from their curriculums, assume that a minister is to function in an unchanging world. There is no evidence, for instance, that theological schools as a group realize their need to have students abreast of discoveries in physical science. This results directly in the situation that js found in the churches throughout the land. Ip this year of grace, seventy

!rears after the publication of the Origin of Species, some theo-ogians who virulently express disapproval of Darwin’s hypothesis are warring bitterly on other theologians who directly or indirectly have known its influence; and the sheep of the former have passed laws in some states to prevent the sheep of the latter or, indeed any others from seeking truth in a field called evolution. Just so in 1999, seventy years from today, some theologians, content to be ignorant of the implications of the Einstein theory, will violently oppose those fin-de-siecle liberals who will stoutly declare that there is no reason for a true religionist to fear the truth in any form, even f it involves strange conception^ of time and space, and who indeed may say that even these are astonishingly consistent with some of the comments on immortality made by Jesus of Nazareth. From a knowledge of the physical sciences as known today, theologians have nothing to fear and possibly much to gain. From a knowledge of the social sciences also they may learn things that will enable a larger number of them to become recognized leaders of the people in times of social strain. And, too, if only more of them would keep in touch with developments in modem education they could soon change the least efficient of our educational institutions—with their inadequate admission systems, curriculums, equipment in libraries and pereonnel— into schools worthy to provide spiritual leadership in a democracy.

Another learned profession, law, has made progress by specializing in its field. The curriculum of the law school, the papers

Digitized by LjOOQle
261

read at associations of legal practitioners, the publications issued by publishing houses known chiefly to lawyers, show how intensely this specialization has been developed. Recognizing the dangers of an extreme provincialism, some progressive teachers of the law have been pondering the larger social relations of their subject and have been studying methods in other educational divisions for the purpose of improving legal instruction. Addressing the members of the New York bar, Jan. 25, 1929, Charles Evans Hughes emphasized the need of cooperation of bar, bench and public in raising standards in the administration of justice. Specifying certain grave difficulties he said: “The very size of the bar, with its many thousands of members in this great metropolis, is baffling. We have reason to fear that many are coming to the bar who are unfitted to appreciate the requirements of professional duty. We have not only the problems of technical legal education, the special equipment for practice, but the greater difficulties with respect to general culture and ethical training.” A study of the profession in its larger relations has been instituted at Columbia and Johns Hopkins by enlisting a professor of economics expert in the whole field of social science. Naturally the problems of technical legal education must be examined; even the sacrosanct case system must be made to show whether it really is the most effective method for training practitioners. Methods of selecting students of law are the subject of experiment. The Yale Law School, aware of the tremendous development in new types of educational measurements, instituted experimentally two years ago a type of entrance test which already shows interesting results. At Columbia under Dean Harlan Fiske Stone (now a justice of the supreme court) were devised objective and speedy tests of the achievement of law students. Moreover, the law schools, if they wish it, have at hand the means to experiment in solving the problems to which Mr. Hughes has called attention, for as I shall show presently there is a widespread interest among colleges in the more accurate measurement of men’s achievements and personalities.

No profession, no educational group in the United States, has made greater progress through specialization than medicine. It shows in the very notable achievements of research workers in the departments. It shows in the records of the American Medical Association, the Council on Medical Education and Hospitals, and the Association of American Medical Colleges. It is most remarkable in the record of the profession in establishing criteria, classifying medical schools, and promoting medical education. At the same time medicine, as shown by the journals of this congress and notably by the selection of members of the Commission on Medical Education and the Commission on the Cost of Medical Care, has endeavored to guard against isolation from the rest of the educational world. The medical profession has sought to learn of advances in other educational fields by inviting to the sessions of one or another of its associations such experts in these Adds as Chadsey of Illinois, Haggerty of Minnesota, Charters of

Digitized by ^ooQie
262

Ohio State, and Trabue of North Carolina: and, what is even more significant, their ideas have been discussed. Moreover, in the reports of the Commission on Medical Education, Dr. Rapp-leye has called attention to some of the ways in which other divisions of education are seeking to meet their responsibilities. And yet the record of educational research in medicine is not long: when I examined a bibliography of 3,650 items of educational research of the last ten years I found only seven related directly to medical education. I have found more than that in the papers of the National Student Health Association—the work of which is so lamentably little known to college deans and presidents. There has been an attempt to avoid the isolation of medicine from education; meanwhile there is evidence of isolation of education from medicine. That is being changed, because from medicine the rest of the educational world seeks aid in doing its best for the individual student through a health program including mental hygiene for each individual; and because medicine likewise has problems which the experience of the rest of the educational world may help to solve.

Are the professions getting the gifted students from the colleges? Are the theological seminaries securing men competent to become the spiritual leaders of our country? How do they determine that a candidate has a “vocation,” a real call of God to His service? Are the law schools receiving men who will measure up .to Mr. Hughes’ conception of a man at the bar? Are the gifted college men and women entering medicine? Is medicine getting all it needs of such students? Are its students as good as those who go into engineering, business, teaching, law, the ministry? Nobody knows. To be sure, 20,000 applications by 8,900 persons have been studied, of whom 6,400 were accepted and 5,200 actually entered the medical schools; and it has been shown that 73 per cent of those who entered during the last ten or fifteen years were graduated.

The correlations of college grades and medical school grades have been studied. Grades are apparently the most useful standard we have as yet. But since 1910 we have been learning a great deal about school and college grades and their shortcomings. In assigning grades, teachers have confused achievements and moral qualities. How often have teachers who have known that a student’s attainment has not been such as to enable him to go into a higher class been tempted to make allowance for the fact that the boy tried hard. Many ingenious studies have proved that grades have been subjective. Indeed, the situation in the educational world at large led Thorndike to describe it as “scandalous.” Then began the tremendous movement to secure more accurate, objective and comparable measurements of educational achievement. Intelligence tests, so called, were tried. Today, psychologists say those things were not measures of intelligence but, to quote Prof. Knight Dunlap, “measures of a certain kind of achievement at a given time under certain conditions.” This

Digitized by v^.oooLe
263

comment may comfort those who have read a certain bulletin of the National Research Council. Some experimental tests emphasized spelling as a measure of intelligence. Dean Cross of Yale has told me that when he was writing his life of Henry Fielding he used to receive manuscripts and rare editions from a wealthy collector in New York whose custom it was to communicate in his own handwriting. His idiosyncrasies in spelling were remarkable. One day in the New York library of the rich man Cross noted a portable typewriter. “You don’t use this when you write to me,” said Cross. “No, you are one of three persons to whom I write in my own handwriting. You understand me and my spelling. To all otherg, I tap out letters on this machine and down in the corner I put “Dictated but not read.” There was nothing wrong with his intelligence!

“Intelligence tests,” then, have given way to various kinds of measurements which may be called achievement tests. The American Council on Education has been experimenting for several years with a psychologic examination devised by a committee under the chairmanship of Prof. L. L. Thurstone. Each year the results are studied and a new test is devised. The individual scores and norms are helpful in the selection of college stucents; the comparative total scores of colleges and the comparison of the ranges of scores in different colleges have already proved important to committees and commissions measuring the effectiveness of colleges. The Modern Foreign Language Study under the auspices of the American Council on Education used achievement tests in foreign languages in the United States and Canada to measure not only individuals but schools and colleges and national groups of institutions. The Committee on Personal Methods of the American Council on Education has recommended to the colleges twenty-three achievement tests in college subjects. These are being widely used, most conspicuously in the current study of educational institutions in the state of Pennsylvania by the Carnegie Endowment for the Advancement of Teaching. It is already clearly established that scores on these achievement tests are more reliable indexes to the achievement of students than grades such as have been given in the past. Combined with the high school grades the achievement tests, including the psychologic tests, have given a more reliable basis for admitting students to college.

The professions likewise may find such achievement tests useful. Tne church boards of education have cautiously inquired about these measurements in connection with recruiting for the ministry. Law schools are experimenting. Medical schools are showing an interest in tests of this type. At the University of Michigan under the direction of Dean Cabot the medical school, after a detailed study of the origins, qualifications and preparation of those who have applied for admission during an eight year period, established special examinations in 1928.

Digitized by t^ooQle
264

A scholastic aptitude test for medical schools has been made by Dr. F. A. Moss and Dr. I. B. Hunter of George Washington University Medical School. It is proposed to use it as a determining factor in selecting students. During the first ten minutes the student studies a diagram and a paragraph about the heart and great vessels; during the next five minutes the student studies a passage such as may be found in medical literature. Then for the remainder of an hour the student, working as rapidly as possible, takes six tests; (1) a scientific vocabulary test of forty items; (2) a test of premedical information (100 items); (3) a visual memory test of twenty items based on the diagram first studied; (4) a memory content test based on the paragraph first studied (twenty items); (5) a comprehension and retention test (twenty items) based on the passage in “Speech Defects,” and finally (6) a test of the “understanding of printed material” (fifteen items). In its preliminary form the test was tried with the 1927-1928 freshman class of the George Washington University Medical School. Purely on the basis of the scores made, it was predicted that ten of the seventy-eight students would be dropped or required to repeat a year of work before they completed the medical course. At the close of the first year five of these students were dropped for poor scholarship and two were made to repeat the course. Of the other three the average grades in the medical school were below 80 (75 being the passing grade). In a revised form the test was given to the class entering in September, 1928. On the basis of the scores it was predicted that seven of the eighty-three students would be dropped or made to repeat at the close of the year. Of these seven students, up to the present time, two have been dropped for poor scholarship and the average grades of the rest are 71, 78.6, 66.6, 44.3, 61.3—all but one below passing. A comparison of the test scores with the grades in medical school gives the very high correlation of 0.72. In studying the scores of this year’s group, Dr. Moss predicted purely on the basis of the test scores that eight students would win distinction or grades near distinction. So far, six of these students have grade averages of 90 or above and the other two are in the upper half of the class.

These results have been obtained with a group of students very small from the statistical standpoint; but they are so striking as to make it desirable to experiment with a much larger group. Therefore the American Council on Education has printed this test for distribution at this congress. It is proposed to give to any medical school without charge a sufficient number of tests to give to the first year medical class in April or May. The tests can then be returned to Dr. F. A. Moss, George Washington University, Washington, D. C. for scoring. Dr. Moss has undertaken to send the results to the deans in time for them to use the scores, if they so desire, in connection with the elimination of students at the close of the present year.

Obviously, if convenient tests which will reliably predict academic success in professional schools can be worked out, a great

Digitized by (^.ooQLe
265

waste can be avoided for the individuals and institutions which now are losing time and energy in trying to make educational adjustments which cannot be made. Not only at the time of admission are these tests important; even more significant is their use in final examinations for degrees. If we can determine the attainments which we desire a person to have if he is to receive a D. B. or an LL. B. or an M. D., and if we can devise objective tests of these attainments, we shall rid our whole educational system of relatively meaningless time measurements and we shall, if we develop the already important program of discovering and guiding the abilities of the individual, solve the problem of economy of time in education to which the Council on Medical Education and Hospitals vigorously directed attention in 1915 and which still, in spite of some evidence of progress, awaits solution, as the program of the Department of Superintendence of the National Education Association shows.

Achievement tests are making grades and other scholastic measurements of men more reliable. But the church desires to know the character of a prospective minister; the bar wishes to be sure of the virtues of men who are to be lawyers; and the medical profession, as the proceeding^ of the 1927 congress emphatically show, wants to learn something about the ethics of future medical practitioners. Industry has been especially insistent in its desire to know about the personality of its possible recruits. The colleges are trying to find out. The Educational Record for July, 1928, contains a statement of the situation. The American Council on Education Committee on Personnel Methods— has devised a personal record card for the use of schools and one for the use of colleges. On it are recorded such items as will enable a dean of a medical school to gain a more complete understanding of a man than grades and test scores will give him. Achievements of unusual quality, extracurriculum experiences, records of employment, vocational interests, social background, and personality ratings are recorded.

Personality measurement in the past in the army, in industry and in education has been based on rating scales. In the opinion of the Committee on Personality Measurement, the rating scale has not yet proved its reliability. To give the device a fair trial the committee has made the best one I have seen by keeping down to five the items to be considered on a five step scale expressed as objectively as possible. The scale is being widely used among colleges, some having embodied it in their admission application fortns. The trouble with the rating scales I have illustrated on another occasion by referring to a remark about Disraeli. His wife declared that he had high moral courage but no physical courage. This was a personal rating. She was his wife; she doubtless had opportunity to observe this. But not knowing her standards we do not fully understand the significance of her rating. Fortunately for our appreciation of her husband she went on to say that she thought he had no physical courage, because when Dizzy stepped under his shower he did not have the cour-

Digitized by Google
266

age to pull the cord which brought cold water down on him and she had to pull it for him! The rating even by a qualified observer helps one to understand Disraeli less than does the statement of the reason for that rating.

So descriptions of personality in terms of significant actions observed are being accumulated in the colleges for the guidance of college officers, possible employers and deans of professional schools. Note how they may give a conception of a student:

An eighth grade boy, “finding in an English assignment, the introduction to Bums’ “Cotter’s Saturday Night,” a reference to Robert Fergusson’s “The Farmer’s Ingle” as a possible inspiration of Bums’ poem, looked up Ferguson’s poem in the home library and compared it with that of Bums. At the same time desiring to read Bums in the Scottish way he mastered the phonetic system of Sir James Wilson’s “The Dialect of Robert Bums as spoken in Central Ayrshire* which he also found in the home library, and so interested the boys of his class in the pronunciation of Scottish words that even at the end of the year the lads still called each other by appropriate Scottish nicknames and used Scotticisms which they found in Bums and Wilson.”

An eighth grade boy “at the age of 11 began collecting diatoms from local ponds and streams and studying their forms under his own microscope. He now possesses a collection of microscope slides, including some presented to him by scientists in the Department of Agriculture and the Carnegie Institution, specimens collected by Shackleton, Scott and other expeditions.

An employer of a high school graduate wrote: “During the

course of my association with-----1 have found him to be a steady

and reliable worker. When called upon for extra work he never shirked, as for example: One day when I was out of town, Mr.— after working his usual length of time, was asked to put in a few more hours of work because of the unusually heavy amount of business that had come into the plant. Without quibbling, he cheerfully agreed to do so. When he had put in more than the time agreed upon, he was told that he could go home; but seeing the amount of work still to be done, and knowing that as I was out of town it would take an almost superhuman amount of work from the other employees to get all the business out, he refused to go. Instead, he fell asleep in a car belonging to one of the employees and, after sleeping only one hour, was up and working again. He had worked thirty-six hours and had had only one

hour of sleep. When Mr.-------was first employed by me, he earned

$5 a week. When he left, his salary was $40 a week.”

It is an art to write brief descriptions of actions significant of personality. It is the art of Dante and Shakespeare. It is an art which teachers can learn and which they can practice. To help them the personality measurement sheet bears these directions:

Describe briefly and concretely significant performances and attitudes which you yourself have observed.

Digitized by Google
267

Let your statements answer specifically the questions of the rating scale by showing how the student manifested the qualities mentioned.

Do not be satisfied with the statement of an opinion concerning matters of fact, if the facts themselves can be presented.

Select some illustrations of conduct which are consistent with the personality of the student as you have observed and understood it.

Bear in mind that from as many accurate observers as possible the college desires to secure concrete descriptions of the student’s personality as exhibited in many situations, and that the purpose is an understanding of the student’s personality as a whole so that he and all concerned with his education may guide hip development to its highest.

The descriptions are based on observed actions. But, like Browning, one may feel that “it is not what man does exalts him; but what man would do.” No psychologist has yet measured what it is most important to know—the human will. But men have shown the intensity of their desires by the things they have done in order to gain their ends. These manifestations can be observed and recorded. If the schools and colleges will accumulate such descriptions of personality, the officers in charge of admission to a professional school will have valuable guidance in the selection of their students. These personality measurement sheets have been in use only since last September, but reports which I have received from schools and colleges where they have been used are enthusiastic. One institution declared that whereas high school and college teachers had hitherto declined to rate their students on a scale, they welcomed the chance to write a common sense paragraph illustrating a student’s quality. In industry and in education the responses from persons requested to rate or to describe individuals with whom they have been associated have been of special value when directed to a specific end. Our experience supports the demand of Dr. Darrach for an evaluation of a man “on the basis of what one thinks he is going to do as a doctor.” We of the schools and colleges do not know what a physician does. We may make the mistake of observing irrelevant actions unless the physicians themselves advise us.

The situation is just what it is in the rest of the world’s work. When this has been analyzed and the skills and qualities required for particular positions have been specified, the schools and colleges can shape their curriculums and methods of instruction to attain more quickly the objectives of education as they pertain to the profession and to other vocations. Already the American Council on Education has been able in cooperation with certain industries to secure descriptions of several thousand positions which college men and women are called on to fill. The state department has just completed such a description of the work of the foreign service officer. Other departments of the government are formulating their records of usage, finding the experience of use within the department as well as helpful to the

Digitized by CjOOQle
268

colleges in understanding the needs of the department. A single individual makes a record of performance describing all the activities pertaining to a particular job or position. Then the records of performance of several individuals who did the same job are cumulated in what is called a “job specification.” Finally a composite of the job specifications of a group of similar jobs in a variety of organizations gives us what is called a record of usage. Some may have seen the book by Prof. W. W. Charters, in which, behind a forbidding title, “Basic Materials for a Pharmaceutical Curriculum,” he has analyzed a field of importance to medicine. It is the hope of some of us that such a record will arise out of the valuable studies being made by the Commission on Medical Education. When medicine has furnished the colleges with such a record of usage it will be possible to provide a curriculum more directly effective in training men and women for the medical profession and in helping to choose them wisely.

A description of the profession of medicine based on such a study, placed in the hands of gifted students at the time when rich corporations are tempting them from medicine and research, will in itself help to enlist the right kind of student. Vocational guidance in the colleges is just beginning. The first of the American Council on Education Vocational Monograph Series was devoted to medicine and was prepared at the University of Michigan under the supervision of Dr. C. S. Yoakum of the Committee on Personnel Methods. The monograph can be greatly improved when medical men afford us the records of usage which will enable a college man who is considering a profession to know just what a modern physcian does and is.

The general public needs this guidance too, for at some time in his life the man in the street wants to call a physician. At the comer drug store the pharmacist tells him to see a physician. His insurance companies advise him to consult his physician. The public health service directs the sick to call in a physician. The editor of The Journal writing in the New Republic says: “The person who is sick should go to bed immediately and should have the attention of a competent physician.” But how is the man in the street to know who is a competent physician?

When the British Medical Council of Medical Education and Registration was established in 1859, it undertook to“ enable persons requiring medical aid to distinguish qualified from unqualified practitioners.” In this country the American Medical Association has had the admiration and some cooperation of the rest of the educational world in establishing standards for medical schools and vigorously combating the activities of inadequate and fraudulent schools. The reduction in the number of schools from 162 in 1907 to eighty in 1927, is a remarkable achievement. In 1927 it was reported that 94.1 per cent of the 4,035 graduates in medicine were from class A schools. Only twenty-two years ago, 5.9 per cent of the graduates were from class A schools. That looks like progress. The American mortality tables, however, would indicate that a great many of the men who made up

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
269

the 94.1 per cent of medical graduates of 1905 are still alive and presumably they still have at their doors brass plates with the names followed by M. D. How ip the ailing man in the street to know from this brass plate or a list in the telephone book which physician to call. “Today with us,” says the editor of the Lancet in his interesting review of his American visit, speaking of England, “a doctor is a doctor and, save where the possession of an honors qualification is needed for the holding of an appointment, the particular affixes to a name in the Register have no significance.” The American citizen has no register to consult. Moreover, he has knowledge that a large number of physicians received their degrees from schools which do not or did not have the approval of the American Medical Association. Can he be sure that “S. Sprigge, M. D.” is a reliable physician? Would he have more confidence in “Sir Squire Sprigge, M. D. Cantab., F. R. C. P. Lond., F. R. C. S. Eng. editor of the Lancet’"! Why should not the man in search of a physician have such information as Sir Squire himself puts at the head of his article for the information of readers of the ? In a famous campaign for pure food and drugs it was a physician said “Tell the truth on the label and let the consumer judge for himself.” Will he choose “M. D. (Oriental)” or “M. D. (Johns Hopkins)”? President Eliot of Harvard once declared it to be a purpose of education to enable a person to know a good man when he saw one. Persons thus educated, in school and in college, would know a good physician when they saw one and would certainly call a competent physician when they needed one.

Without losing the advantages of specialization I hope that each division of education will afford every other one the advantage of its experiences and that each will welcome—as the Council on Medical Education and Hospitals has always welcomed— the cooperation of other educational units. It is my belief that measuring achievements rather than time will enable us to select men and women more wisely and also organize our educational divisions so flexibly that the gifted student may proceed more quickly through his formal education; and it is my hope that the new efforts to measure personality will lead to elective character education and that descriptions of personality will aid in the choice of the best men and women for the service of mankind in the ministry, the administration of justice, and the healing of the sick and maintenance of health. I am sure that the schools and colleges can more effectively cooperate with the. medical profession in these ways if the profession will teach them what a physician does and is in the terms of the day and in the experience of the leaders of medicine in ohr country. Specialization and coperation is my plea. Again I quote the distinguished editor of the Lancet: “On both sides of the Atlantic a simple chant may be heard to the effect that “the more we get together the happier we shall be’.” That goes for all divisions of education on each side of the Atlantic, as well as for medicine and the other divisions on both sides.

Digitized by Google
270

PHYSICAL EXERCISES IN THE MODERN TREATMENT OF THE MENTALLY ILL

By John Eisele Davis, M. A., Senior Physical Director, U. S. Veterans’ Hospital Perry Point, Maryland.

In the modern treatment of the mentally ill, supervised physical exercise administered as a carefully prescribed therapy, is rapidly gaining recognition at the hands of hospital administrators and the public at large who are in a position for intelligent observation.

From the administration standpoint, physical exercise provides a most distinctively effective field for the mental and nervous types are provided media of activity, peculiarly adapted to their personality and physical condition. That such a program is entitled to most serious consideration is attested by the fact that 85 per cent of psychotic, psychoneurotic, and nervous types of the present age of the World War Veterans will respond to a diversified program carefully administered by capable therapists. This high percentage does not apply in many institutions because of the inadequate facilities offered and the high percentages of older patients, who have not been enlisted at a favorable stage of their regression.

The administration of such a program involves many interesting and unique problems. In the first place a most comprehensive program consisting of carefully graded formal exercises, competitive athletics modified in many instances to meet possible unusual behavior reactions, a large category of fields and special facilities must be offered. This does not mean, however, that a physical program cannot be set up and executed without this. The physical director will find in every institution innumerable approaches which may be utilized as the basis of a program. A start may be made by simply grading a group for calisthenic exercises which may be given by the aid of a phonograph. The therapist will be enabled to form a basic idea of the patients physical and mental level by most frequent consultations with the ward surgeon. He will also be able thru this agency to evaluate many strange behavior reactions of the patient. In this connection it is necessary to note that the mental attitude of the patient occupies the predominating position in administering exercise. For the mentally ill, a program must anticipate mental attitudes both favorable or unfavorable. Paradoxical as it may seem, the end of exercise in this special field is to establish the most fundamental habits of social living, rather than to promote muscular activities and co-ordinations. This aspect of the subject discloses a fundamental difference between exercise for the normal and abnormal mental types. For the latter, exercise has a behavior objective, the idea being to enlist the patient into some form of activity primarily selected with careful reference to his mental make-up, so that he will make the initial participation. This

Digitized by Google
271

initial participation involves a carefully studied mode of approach in which the past behavior patterns of the patient may give an indication of his reaction to the present therapeutic exercise.

The next problem, once the patient commences, is to establish an attitude of interest which will result in continuation. Interest presents a difficult problem. The patients activities are characteristically flighty and vacillating. Interest is but temporary when the patient is first enlisted in a program. The aim is to provide a permanent interest closely allied to his mental and physical restoration so that he may resume his position in society. Often times such a stabilizing interest is established by presenting a progressive series of formal exercises and competitive contests requiring a steady physical growth and graduation from a-social and anti-social levels to acceptable group conduct. While much has been written in normal psychology about the resocialization of the individual thru competitive games, the instructor need but observe the avidity with which many psychotic and psycho-neurotics play, their spirit of abandon, outbursts of friendly rivalry, pleasurable emotions associated with winning, stabilization of the emotional sphere, and other elements of normal living to realize that this form of therapy has a definite place as a co-ordinate treatment.

The program is analagous to the field of exercise for normals in some particulars. There are of course, the patients requiring corrective exercise, for structural, functional or postural adjustment. This field being concerned with purely physical conditions is being included in the realm of physiotherapy. There is however to be considered the attitudinal sphere of the patient and other most important resocializing values vitally concerned in this procedure. For example it is often necessary to penetrate the delusional or hallucinatory sphere of the patient or it may be necessary to sell the therapy to the patient, who is fairly clear. This can often be accomplished by calling in other patients who have been helped and by such demonstration influence the patient. Measurements of performance are also of particular value. The patient who sees steady improvement by aid of muscle tests of accuracy, speed, strength, etc., will in many cases be formally impressed.

In conclusion, physical exercise for the mentally ill represents a distinctive therapeutic field, the large number who will respond to a highly diversified program establish supervised physical exercise as a most important adjunct in the modem treatment of the mentally ill. Except in cases of corrective exercise for physical adjustment the primary idea is to establish the resocialization of the patient which will assist in rstoring him as an acceptable unit of society.

Digitized by Lj ooQle
272

PROPER SHOEING OF THE CHILD*

John D. Adams, M. D., Boston

The human adult foot can hardly be referred to as a thing of beauty; yet in the early months of its existence it is certainly classified by every one as among the daintiest and most attractive portions of the baby’s anatomy. The abuse of the human foot starts early in life largely through the sacrifice of utility and function to the esthetic.

Two axioms which might well be applied to many of the civilized races are:

1.	Shoes are made to sell and not to wear.

2.	The public wants what it wants and not what it needs.

Great events which test out physical fitness are apt to bring

to light certain grave deficiencies. In some localities in this country, practically 50 per cent of the men examined for service in the recent war were declared physically unfit, on account of flatfoot. The human foot in the adult strikes the ground every 5 feet, or 1,000 times in a mile. The average marching distance of the soldier is 15 miles a day; hence the deductive importance of properly fitting shoes which allow unrestrained function.

The conformation of the baby’s foot, with its well proportioned shape, softness and pliability, does not give any conception of real bony structure. This portion of the anatomy is endowed with few bones in the early months of life, the efforts of nature being spent on the parts needing stabilization for early use. At birth, only two bones of the tarsus are found possessing ossification centers, with the cuboid appearing in about 50 per cent of the cases. The arch of the foot is present at birth, but it is concealed by the large amount of plantar fat. If an impression is taken of the sole of the foot of a new-born child, one gets the impression of flatfoot. In reality, the arch is relatively higher than in the adult, as the space under the arch is filled with a large fat pad, which in early weight bearing assumes the role later taken up by the plantar fascia and the leg muscles.

Babies are essentially alike in their gait. They set the feet well apart with the toes abducted to broaden their base and thus to stabilize themselves. Their actual tread is essentially the same and this does not become individualized until the age of 6 years. At this age, it is developed into a gait and tread acquired in youth, which is carried into adult life.

It is possible to recognize a person by his gait. The shoes that are worn play an extremely important role in the development of this individual characteristic. The foot statics and gait are assumed which are the easiest and most comfortable for locomotion; hence the importance of proper education in one’s early life.

♦Journal, American Medical Association.

Digitized by L^ooQle
273

It is safe to say that no part of the human body is the recipient of so much abuse to satisfy vanity as is the human foot. The average adult is extremely selfconscious of the bare foot, and he exposes it with a great deal of hesitancy, realizing full well that the distorted toes, corns and bunions reflect anything but credit to himself. It is obvious that parents should be educated not only with regard to the proper type of shoe to be worn by the child in early life but also in an intelligent understanding of its construction, and the reasons why the growing’foot should be respected in its anatomic development. On whom should this duty fall but the physician?

In the act of walking, the toe strikes the ground first only in theory; in practice, it is the heel that first strikes the ground. At the end of the first year in life when the average child has defined in its mind the ability to walk, the muscles of the foot and lower leg develop rapidly. This fact is expressed in the young child, who is observed continually exhibiting his prowess by raising on his toes, and it follows that this freedom of action should never be inhibited by a tightfitting, stiff soled foot covering.

The first shoe should emulate a paper bag possessing just enough shape to make it possible to designate it as a shoe. Its material should be soft white kid with a flexible unresisting sole, with a draw string of tape at the top. Its function should simply be that of a protective covering. Between the ages of 2 and 5, the child should have something a little more substantial as a protection.

The Ideal Shoe

There are seven vital and essential points to be incorporated in what might be termed the “ideal seven point shoe”:

1.	Breadth of the Toe.—The shoe should be sufficiently broad to allow the toes to assume a natural uncompressed weight-bearing position.

2.	Length.—There is a natural tendency for store salesmen to sell she es too short for the rapidly growing foot. Few child-dren at tos age ever wear out their shoes, but they do outgrow them and even the slightest pressure against the great toe causes in time a tendency to flexion deformity. All shoes should be at least one-half inch longer than the weight-bearing foot. This fact can be determined only by taking a tracing of the weightbearing bare foot, and laying the shoe on the tracing.

3.	Depth and Fulness of the Toe.—This one point shows the least abuse of any, in the modern child’s shoe. The moccasin toe and the turned shoe have corrected this abuse.

4.	Close Fitting Well Shaped Heel, Tapering at the Top to Fit the Natural Conformation of the Os Calcis.— The heel formed by the two quarters of the shoe should be the only part of its construction to fit snugly. The os calcis is sparsely covered with soft tissue and presents a firm bony resistance to pressure.

Digitized by v^ooQle
274

5.	Depth from the Vamp at the Dorsum of the Foot over the Midtarsus to the sole.—This without doubt is a much abused essential point in shoe construction. No doubt, it is the result of sacrificing utility and comfort to vanity. Traditional fashion attempts to express beauty in the long vamp and tapering toe of the modern shoe. The normal foot in the side view has a distinct convex curve over the tarsus on the dorsum of the foot, in a line running from the anterior fold of the ankle to the base of the toes. In most of the modem shoes this line is straight. Depth and fulness are necessary here, not only to accommodate the normal fulness in the contour of the foot but also to allow freedom of action in foot mechanics, in raising on the toes in the act of walking. There must be a lack of constriction at this point to allow a proper bearing and leverage of the toes. This fact is especially important in the growing foot of the child.

6.	Broad Flexible Sole, with a Straight Outside Bearing from the Tip of the Little Toe to the Width of the Heel.—The natural weight bearing should fall on the straight outside of the foot, with the feet parallel. For this reason, there should not be a narrowing of the sole at the counter.

7.	Height of the Heel.—Starting with the “paper bag shoe,” up to the age of 3 1-2 years, the child’s shoe should not have a heel any thicker than the sole. From 3 1-2 years up to 5 years, the heel should be twice as thick as the sole.

One would appear presumptuous, and perhaps a heretic to tradition, did he suggest a change in the military standing position of the feet; yet if one analyzes the foot statics in early Greek statuary, one finds the standing position always with the feet parallel.

With advance in age there is a natural tendency to increase in weight with a consequent shifting of body mechanics. One finds the individual settling in the pelvis with resultant broadening of the base to stabilize body weight. In the present and past generations, in our childhood, we were all taught to toe out. We have held to that tradition, doing so at the present time, even though we realize the fallacy of it and the direct results in foot mechanics. Drastic educational movements are carried out along the lines of health and eradication of disease, but there.is failure in material ways to teach the individual how to maintain normal balance. The change of fashion and style is responsible for bringing about many of the abuses of the body mechanics.

The recent war brought forth in a rather material way the necessity of proper care of the feet, and has tended to change the style of men’s shoes radically. If the difficulties encountered in the recent war are to be averted and eliminated for future generations, parents must be educated to the type of footwear proper for the early growing period of the child.

Digitized by v^ooQle
275

♦ — -------------------- ♦

Gymnasium and playground

“CHRISTMAS EVE”

By J. P. Zabadal, New Ulm, Minn.

Theme - Part I - Out-of-doors.

Three girls while out-of-doors naturally indulge in winter sports. Later in the day the snow begins to fall. Noticing the beauty of the snow the girls stop to watch it and imagine the snowflakes performing a dance. Still later the sun appears and the snow slowly melts away, with which occurance the girls continue on their way home.

In the interlude:—

The interlude is introduced to facilitate the change between the out door and indoor scenery.

In the first number “The Boy and the Dead Pussy Cat” a toy cat is thrown out on the stage by an elderly gentleman and who having finished, brushes his hands showing his satisfaction. Following close on this deed, there appears a boy who in his tattered clothing closely resembles the cat. Approaching the strange object, he hesitates, continues and then talks in sorrowful tones—reciting “The Boy and The Dead Pussy Cat.”

The musical number by “Chocolate” is used to cheer the boy, to make him happy again.

Part II - In-doors.

Two girls whose minds are filled with thoughts of Santa Claus and toys try hard to fall asleep but failing in this they get up and go downstairs to the parlor fireplace. As they come down the stairs they unwittingly (through the sound of their footsteps) drive away Santa who was about to open his bag of toys and distribute them about the room. However, Santa in his hurry to disappear forgets his bag and which same is discovered by the girls. They in turn proceed to open it having in their minds the thought of finding out what it contains. Discovering the bag contains toys they attempt to take some of them out but are frustrated and frightened away due to the fact that the toys show signs of life and begin to come out.

The pageant from this point on illustrates the activities of the toys and the conversation indulged in by the girls.

The climax is brought about by the reappearance of St. Nicholas who finds all his toys in a hilarious mood dancing about

Digitized by A^OOQle
276

the room. Verbally he tries to induce them to go into the bag. This failing, he finds it is necessary to give presents to them as a further inducement. They finally consent and the final curtain shows some of them crawling back into the bag, while others are still receiving their presents.

Interlude: —

1.	Boy & Dead Pussy Cat—by Marion Short.

2.	“Chocolate” & His Accordion—

II

CAST OF CHARACTERS AND EVENTS

Part I - Out-of-doors (Out-of-door scenery)	Chalif.

A. Jingle Bells—Dance despicting winter activities—3 girls

B.	Snowflake Dance—Marinoff	Girls

Part II - In-doors	(In-door	scenery)

A.	Parade of the Wooden Soldiers—Chalif	Boys

B.	Dutch Dance—Dutch Dolls—Chalif	Girls

C.	The Cavalry Man—Chalif	Boys

D.	Magic Dolls—Chalif	Girls

E.	Musical Dolls	Boy	&	Girl

F.	Sailors Hornpipe—Chalif	Boys

G.	Chinese Dance—Marinoff	Girls

H.	Clown Dance & Drill—J. Zabadal	Boys

I.	Rag Doll Dance—J. Zabadal

J.	Finale	All	taking	part.

DIALOGUE

Part I - Out-of-doors

Betty:	Isn’t it just fine today?

Dorothy: Yes, it makes one feel like doing something.

Alice:	Well why not girls? We can skate and the snow is

just fine for snowballing and sleighing.

All:	Let’s go.

“JINGLE BELLS”

All:	It’s beginning to snow.

Dorothy: Why how pretty the flakes are.

Alice:	It’s so feathery and so	light.

Betty:	(looking around) Look girls over there! What do you

see?

Alice:	It looks like snow fairies and they’re dancing!

Betty:	And they’re coming closer. Let’s hide and then maybe

they'll really dance and we can watch them.

All:	(Tip-toeing off stage)

“SNOWFLAKE DANCE”

After Snowflake Dance Curtain falls, three girls reappear before curtain.

Dorothy: Wasn’t it beautiful girls?

Digitized by v^.ooQle
277

Others:	Yes, it certainly was worth while waiting for.

Betty:	But say girls, have you forgotten this is Xmas Eve?

Alice:	No I haven’t and I wonder what Santa will bring me?

Dorothy: I’d like to know what I’m going to get too but just now I’m real good and hungry. Aren’t you?

Betty:	Yes, and we’ll have to hurry because mother won’t

save supper for us if we’re late and I don’t want to miss it.

All:	(Exit) singing Jingle Bells.

Part II - In-doors

Girl in pajamas and robe, holding candle appears and recites: “A Visit from St. Nicholas” by Clement C. Moore This introduces the entrance of Santa Claus who comes down the chimney, carrying a bag of toys on his back. After a careful glance about the room, he places his bag of toys on the floor preparatory to opening it. Just at this moment he hears the sound of footsteps and not wishing to be seen he diasppears but in so doing forgets his bag. Two girls enter and engage in the following conversation:

Alice:	Honestly	Dorothy, I couldn’t sleep a wink.

Dorothy: Neither could I and I’m so cold! Let’s sit by the fireplace. Perhaps we can surprise Santa.

(They go to a big arm chair but just before arriving at this point they observe the bag.)

Dorothy: Alice, What is that big thing next to the wall?

Alice:	I don’t know and I’ve never seen it before. It really

looks like a bag.

Dorothy: Let’s look—you lead.

Alice:	No, you lead. I’m afraid.

Dorothy: Well it doesn’t move so it can’t be alive. Let’s both look.

Alice:	All right (they both go)

Alice:	It’s just full of things, I’ll bet it’s Santa’s bag.

Dorothy: But why is it here? Oh I know! He was here and we frightened him away.

Alice:	(Opening	the	bag) Dorothy, look at all the toys.

Should we take some of them out?

Dorothy: Yes, Lets.

(Just at this time the toys begin to move and come out)

Dorothy: Alice, they’re moving, they’re coming out. Hurry— hide.

(They run to chair and cover up but peeping out from cover.)

DANCE OF WOODEN SOLDIERS

Alice:	Weren’t	they cute and they almost looked alive.

Dorothy: Yes, but didn’t* they scare us. Let’s stay still, may be more of them.

there

Digitized by L^ooQle
278

MUSIC INTRODUCTION & HOLLAND BELLE DANCE

Alice:	Weren’t	they	darling and so fresh looking.

Dorothy: Alice, they were wonderful, but let's see if there is anything else in the bag. I think there must be. (They go to bag and pull out two rag dolls who at first are limp and unmanageable but who finally perform a dance of their own)

RAG DOLL DANCE

Dorothy: (Becoming greedy) Weren’t they the funniest things ever, but I want to see more. Help me Alice.

(They bring out musical doll who plays to the accompaniment of one of the girls. Conversation between accompanist and doll is informal. Doll answers with nods of the head.)

MUSICAL DOLLS

Following the Musical dolls the girls go back to their chairs. The pianist plays a little strain of music at which sound some toy cavalry men peep out of the bag and finally come out to perform at end of which girls clap their hands to express their joy.

THE CAVALRY MAN

The pianist continues to experiment with her music and draws out the next number.

MAGIC DOLLS

The girls after showing their pleasure go again to the bag look in and pull out a sailor doll who after a few kicks frees himself and motions for others to come.

SAILORS HORNPIPE

Alice:	Well	I	guess	that’s all: there can’t possibly be another

thing in that bag.

Dorothy: It certainly has been full but they say Santa’s bag is always full, no matter how many toys are taken out.

Pianist plays Chinese Melody

Dorothy: Alice, isn’t that odd music, what does it make you think of?

Alice:	It	sounds	like that Chinese music we heard the other

evening. Say Dorothy, I wonder if there are any Chinese dolls.

Dorothy: That’s just what the music reminds me of and they’re so different and odd.

Alice:	There	are	some.	Look	Dorothy,	here	they	come.

Dorothy: Let’s keep real quiet.

CHINESE DANCE

Upon the conclusion of the dance all the dolls run off except one who tries to get back into the bag. However, she is stopped by someone trying to get out. She tries to get in but is pushed out and finally following failure after failure she steps away and

Digitized by t^ooQie
279

just at this moment out of the bag, comes hurtling an enraged clown who sprawls out half his length beyond entrance of bag. Getting up in clown fashion he frightens the dolls away. Then he motions for others to come out and the dance begins.

CLOWN DANCE

FINALE

The entire cast are upon the stage formed in little groups doing activities peculiar to each. Upon this scene enters Santa Claus looking for his lost toys and converses with the toys in the following manner.

Santa:	Here, here, what is this? Who let you out?

Toys:	Point to girls.

Santa:	Naughty	girls,	But	come	get	into	your	bag.	We	have

a good many places to visit tonight. Come.

Toys:	Shaking heads,	refusing,

Santa:	Well! well!	Perhaps you too would like some

presents?

Toys:	Nodding and jumping, stating that is just what they

do want.

Santa:	And	will	you	go	into	your bags then?

Toys:	Nodding consent

Santa:	Very	well,	here	they	are and hurry now because we

must be gone.

With distribution of gifts, final curtain falls.

Explanatory Notes

Out-of-door scenery is ordinary scenery used in such scenes. However the use of imitation snow would add to the effect.

In-door scenery—	In this scenery there is made use of a form—built bag

—thru which the characters enter but exit at the other end of the stage.

Character entrance— In some of the numbers—introductory music is used to induce the characters out of the bag. St. Nicholas seemingly makes his entrance thru the chimney and fireplace. This effect is brot about thru the use of lights. The use of the interlude is entirely optional as it is no way connected with the rest of the pageant. There are other points where special numbers can be nicely introduced to lengthen the program which as given above will not occupy more than an hour and a half.

The Clown Dance and Drill by J. Zabadal is a combination of Tumbling and a parody on the dances which have been given in the dances prior to the Clown number. A piece of clowning.

The Rag Dolls are in costume and give a combination of clog dance steps. The Musical Dolls sing or play some instrument.

The Chalif selections can be secured by addressing Chalif Russian Normal School of Dancing, 163-65—57th Str. New York City.

The Marinof Classical School of Dancing, New York City.

‘'Chocolate” is simply a specialty number a little negro boy who plays the accordion.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
280

PLAYGROUND SHINNY

Field.

For official games the field of play shall be 100 feet x 200 feet. For practice games it may vary in size according to the space facilities in each playground. A line connecting the middle points of the two side lines divides the field into halves.

Goals.

In the center of the end lines and two yards apart are the goal posts. The upper border of the goal shall be an imaginary line extending between the two goal posts at a height of four feet from the ground. This height should be indicated by a line painted on each goal post.

Sticks.

Wooden shinny sticks shall be used.

Puck.

The puck shall be a rubber heel (or a similar piece of rubber). Teams.

For an official game the number of members on a team shall be nine. For other games the number may range from a minimum of five (three forwards and two backs) to a maximum of eleven players (five forwards, five backs, one goal tender).

Length Of Game.

There shall be fifteen minute halves with a five minute intermission.

Officials.

The game shall be in charge of one official who shall referee, keep time, and record the score.

Object Of The Game.

To get the puck between the goal marks.

Advancing The Puck.

The puck may be advanced in any direction only by striking or pushing it with a shinny stick.

Scoring.

One point will be scored for each goal made.

Shinny From Center.

The game is started by the referee placing the puck in the center of the field between the shinny sticks of two opposing players, who stand facing the side lines with their left shoulders toward the opponent’s goal. Each taps the ground with his stick, then taps the opponent’s stick a little above the puck, and repeats this twice. Immediately after the sticks are tapped together the third time these players may strike the puck.

The same procedure shall be followed in putting the puck into play after a goal has been made.

Digitized by v^ooQle
281

Out Of Bounds.

When the puck goes out of bounds it shall be put into play by an opponent of the player who caused it to go out of bounds, by a free pass or hit at the point where it went out. All other players must be at least five yards distance from the player when he puts the puck into play.

Fouls.—1.

Raising the shinny stick above the waist to hit or pass the puck.

Penalty—a free hit. The player fouled is permitted to hit the puck and all other players must be at least five yards distance from him.

2. Unnecessary roughness—pushing, shoving, tripping, and striking.

Penalty—a free hit or removal from the game at the discretion of the referee.

DIAGRAM OF PLAYGROUND SHINNY FIELD

A

44 FT.

V

12 FT.

t

44 FT.

1

INDOOR FOOTBALL—BEING A COMBINATION OF FOOT BALL AND INDOOR BASEBALL.

_ ------------------------

F i ggj	By	C.	B.	Warthen,	Lynchburg,	Va.

■' " Several years ago a new game was developed in our gymnasium,*, which was called Indoor Foot Ball. This game has proven very popular with the boys and to some extent with the girls in our gymnasium classes. The game affords splendid practice in handling a foot ball and lots of fun on the side.

<-

<-

Goal marks

CENTER OF

o

FIELD

Goal Marks

-> 6

-> p

v

100 FT.

200

Digitized by
282

The game is played with a regulation foot ball. Indoor Base Ball rules are applied with a few exceptions. The pitcher snaps the ball back between his legs as a center does in foot ball. The batter, who stands on the home plate is to catch the ball and to make a drop kick. (A punt is allowed in case the batter, wearing thin tennis shoes, does not desire to drop kick.)

If the ball is batted (kicked) the bases are run as in Base Ball, excepting that the bases are longer (we use about 25 feet).

Four men are stationed about thirty feet from the batter who are known as rushers. As soon as the ball is snapped they may rush in and block the kick, but they are not allowed to run into the batter. This makes the batter kick quickly.

If the batter fumbles or fails to kick the ball, or if the ball is touched by a rusher before it can be kicked it is a strike. Two strikes puts a man out.

The ball must be pitched within reasonable reach of the batter, otherwise it is called a ball, and two balls will give the batter a base on balls.

If the rushers are off side before the ball is snapped and the ball is put in play it is declared a “ball”.

If the batter fumbles and finally picks the ball up from the floor and kicks it, it is a foul ball regardless of where it is kicked.

A base runner is not allowed to steal in Home on a ball, or on a strike, or when the pitcher is in his box. Other bases, however, may be stolen at any time.

Goal posts are painted on the far wall, or a goal is designated in some way, and if the batter makes a kick over the goal he is credited with a field goal which counts three points. It also counts as a home run and all runners who may be on the bases are brought in on the play.

A drop kick going over the goal can not be caught out on the rebound. Any other batted fly ball may be caught out provided it has not touched the floor.

♦-	i	■	■	  .1	i.	■	<■

Health education notes

■ ■ —	■■■	■	      i

From Journal American Medical Association.

THE USES OF INCREASING LEISURE

In a report on national vitality prepared twenty years ago by Irving Fisher of Yale University for the National Conservation Commission, the reader was reminded on the basis of the conditions existing at that time that whatever diminishes poverty or increases the physical means of welfare has the improvement of health as one of its first and most evident effects. Therefore, the report adds, an important method of maintaining vital efficiency is to conserve our natural resources—our land, our raw

Digitized by v^ooQie
283

materials, our forests and our water. Only in this way can we obtain food, clothing, shelter and the other means of maintaining life. Conversely, the conservation of health will tend in several ways to the conservation of wealth. First of all, the more vigorous and long-lived the race, the better utilization can it make of its natural resources. The labor power of such a race is greater, more intense, more intelligent and more inventive.

In 1900, many writers were deeply concerned about the future of our food supply. The rapid growth of population and the decrease in available arable land raised the specter of the struggle for existence, if not actual famine. In a presidential address to the British Association for the Advancement of Science in 1898, Sir William Crooks uttered the ominous warning that “should all the wheat-growing countries add to their (producing) area to the upmost capacity, on the most careful calculation the yield would give us only an addition just enough to supply the increase of population among bread eaters till the year 1931.” The date has almost arrived but the outlook has lost all the gloomy aspects of Crooks’ prognostications. The efficiency in food production has exceeded all expectations. Machinery has come to our aid in manifold, marvelous ways. Thus wheat, which represents the raw material for about a third of our total energy food, is today produced with unanticipated efficiency. Each bushel represents about thirty minutes of man labor. This means, as Swanson has recently estimated, that two and one-half hours of man labor efficiently spent in wheat raising produces one third of the raw materials for the total energy food consumed by an average adult person in a year. In other words, if all raw materials for food could be produced as efficiently as wheat, seven and one-half hours of man labor would produce this raw material required for one adult in one year. But since the saying “Man shall not live by bread alone” is true physically as well as spiritually, there is another story to the production of raw materials needed for human food.

Despite this reservation, the problem of sustenance has lost its menacing aspect in this country. The recently released report of the Committee on Recent Economic Changes of the President’s Conference on Unemployment presents an unanticipated outlook, on the basis of the fact-finding survey of its distinguished members. The committee finds that as a people we have become steadily less concerned about the primary needs, food, clothing and shelter. We have long since lost all fear concerning our food supply, and so we no longer look on food as a luxury or as a primary source of pleasure. American food standards have risen, but we hear little of the “high cost of living”; the slogan of the “full dinner pail” is obsolete.

One outcome of this is that the rapidly increasing number of families in the United States having a considerable margin of earnings available for “optional consumption”—optional in the sense that this portion of the income may be saved or spent, and

Digitized by UjOOQle
284

if spent the manner of its spending may be determined by the tastes of the consumer or the nature of the appeals made to him by the industries competing for his patronage—presents one of the marked characteristics of the recent economic situation. The gap between the relatively stable cost of living and the rising wages presents some interesting consequences. The food fuel intake per person, approximating an average of less than 3,000 calories a day, cannot be increased without meeting physiologic obstacles. A limit to the expenditure for food is thus set by the nature of man’s bodily needs, aside from comparatively small variations incident to the selection of the less staple foods that may be somewhat more costly than the usual dietary ingredients. The major increases in expenditure of the increased incomes are for goods and services. For these the leisure that has resulted from an augmented man-hour productivity creates new needs.

From the standpoint of health, the use of this increasing leisure involves lessened fatigue, more outdoor life, and greater indulgence in physical exercise in the form of sports of all kinds, as well as other indulgences that may make for personal well being or the reverse. It may help to preserve, better mental balance in our population or, if wrongly used, may increase the number of the psychically unfit. Increasing leisure presents a new series of problems, sone of which belong in the domain of personal hygiene, preventive medicine, and even traditional medical practice.

THE PLACE OF WHEAT IN THE DIET

Food, clothing and shelter represent fundamental requisites in man’s pursuit of well being and happiness. The necessity for food differs in one respect at least from the other factors mentioned in that there is a clearly marked limit to the demand. The opulent person may increase the number of houses that provide shelter and other comforts of life; he may replenish his wardrobe with increasing frequency in accordance with the dictates of his esthetic preferences and the allowance of his income; but the provision of food fuel for the human mechanism finds its limitation in physiologic restriction that cannot be overstepped without untoward consequences. The energy needs of man, averaging, let us assume, from 2,500 to 3,000 calories, represent the optimum for health and comfort. Only under exceptional circumstances, notably during periods of hard labor, can the intake of food fuel be increased as little as 50 per cent without digestive upsets or some other physical penalty. Even obesity as a consequence of overeating presents limits of endurance. Any propaganda for the continued increase in the intake of food, in contrast with other requisites, thus runs afoul of the opposing proclivities of the animal organism.

These fundamental features of the use of food need to be stressed in a period of increasing incomes when appeals are made

Digitized by t^ooQle
285

from all sides to the enhanced purchasing power of the population. If we can be induced to buy more clothes and motor cars and radio sets, why not food? And consequently the well disposed purchaser is being importuned to increase his consumption of many things, including foods. However, the most that can happen regarding the latter is that he may shift his preferences from one group of nutrient materials to another; that he may alter the quality or variety rather than the total food fuel that he consumes. Overeating is a self-limiting error, and its penalties are now well appreciated.

The largest part of our food intake inevitably serves the purpose of supplying energy; hence this fraction is bound to arouse the special interest of the dietetic expert. This energy-yielding portion of our intake is furnished in most parts of the world by the cereals, the least expensive of all nutritively available sources of food fuel for man. The cereals constitute, as a rule from 30 to 60 per cent of the total calories of the diet. Naturally the question arises as to what is the most advantageous proportion of cereals to incorporate into the human ration, and what preference, if any, should be given to the various commonly available cereals. Wheat, corn, rice, oats, barley, and rye come into consideration here. A recent survey by the Food Research Institute of Stanford University indicates that wheat now contributes about one fourth of the calories of the American diet. It is still the chief single staple food. In most southern European countries wheat contributes a larger proportion of the total calories than in the United States; but in countries where rye or rice is the staple cereal, its contribution is smaller. Wheat now ranks as one of the cheapest foods. Per capita consumption appears to be increasing in the world at large but not in the United States or in Great Britain, Canada or Australasia.

The claims made by the modem advertiser for particular types of cereal products are often more ingenious than wise. Taylor has recently ventured to make an unbiased appraisal of the place of wheat in the diet. As wheat contains around 70 per cent of carbohydrate, and wheat flours from 69 to 73 per cent, wheat represents the most important source of carbohydrate in the diet. The carbohydrate is almost entirely starch, except for cellulose in the coat of the kernel. The concentration of starch is highest in the endosperm, where the fiber is lowest; the relations are reversed in the bran. Taylor wisely points out that no food should be appraised by itself, apart from the other foodstuffs. Not what a food is good for alone, but how good it is in combination with other foodstuffs, is the measure to be applied. Otherwise such an article as lard or sugar would find no place in the diet. A correlated appraisal should be both qualitative and quantitative and should be made with sound physiologic perspective. From this standpoint the nutritional importance of wheat in the United States lies primarily in its starch content, not in the content of protein, mineral elements, vitamins or roughage.

Digitized by boogie
286

There are times when reasons of price and convenience rather than reasons of physiology determine the choice of cereals. If the price of milk, meats, fruits and vegetables were to rise, the tendency would be to consume more of the cheaper cereals. But under the prevailing more stabilized economic conditions relating to food purchase, according to Taylor, there are no nutritional reasons for urging an increased consumption of wheat and a lessened consumption of other cereals, or an increased consumption of wheat and a lessened consumption of meats and vegetables. In the declining trend of consumption of cereals over recent decades, corn has lost most, and apparently all the cereals combined have lost more than wheat. This is exactly what would be expected with the gradual transfer of baking from the home to commercial bakeries. But there is no nutritional ground for urging the further substitution of wheat for the other cereals. Our use of meat is probably declining and that of vegetables is certainly increasing. There is no nutritional reason for checking the growing use of vegetables or accelerating the declining use of meat in favor of wheat. The latter cannot make any superlative appeal with respect to its contribution of protein, mineral salts, vitamins or roughage.

One incident in the promotion of wheat as food deserves especial reference. Americans are importuned today by .word of mouth, by radio and by the printed page, in the appeals of dietary faddists, to avail themselves of the alleged superior nutrient virtues of “whole wheat” products. Self-appointed propagandists even refer to white flour and bakery products made of white flour as “poisons.” Such assertions, often made for profit, are alike preposterous and intolerable. Man does not live by bread alone—or by meat or vegetables or milk or fruits. As Taylor reminds us anew, if bread were a crucially important source of protein, mineral salts, vitamins or roughage, and these ingredients of whole wheat were crucially superior to those of other foods, it would be important to use whole wheat bread in place of white bread as a source of the essentials; but this is not the case. It is technically difficult to provision the country with a flour containing the germ, since it cannot be sterilised, or kept in cold storage to retard decomposition. If it were desirable, on economic or other grounds, to have the vitamins of the germ, specifically vitamin B. retained in the bread, it would be far better to have the baker add it artificially than to have the miller keep it in naturally. In recognition of the unbalanced nature of wheat protein, the addition of milk protein to bread has become practically standardized in the baking formulas in this country. Vitamin B could be similarly added, if regarded as so advantageous as to appear commercially necessary. To see the effete clubman, seated at a table covered with foods drawn from all regions and loaded down with vitamins, ordering whole wheat bread in order to secure vitamin B is strikingly illustrative of the carrying power of propaganda. Finally, Taylor says:

Digitized by VjOOQle
287

To the vast majority of Americans it is not a matter of indifference, nutritionally or esthetically, whether their table has whole wheat bread or white bread. The appearance of white bread is more attractive, the texture is finer, it toasts better. Whole wheat bread has a pronounced taste of its own; white bread has a bland wheaten taste that lends itself well to spreading materials. That whole wheat bread has made so little progress since the day of Graham is due to the weak appeal it makes to the taste. Certainly the place of wheaten bread in the diet will not be enlarged by insistence on the use of whole wheat bread.

DARWIN’S HOME: A NATIONAL MEMORIAL

Downe House, the home of Charles Darwin, at Downe, in Kent, England has been presented to the British Association by a surgeon, Mr. Buckston Browne, as a national memorial. The house has not only been saved to the nation as a memorial to Darwin but, by the efforts of Mr. Browne and the generosity of various donors, has been restored, so that it now appears almost exactly as it did during Darwin’s occupation. The “old study," in particular, where the Origin of Species was written, has been put back into the precise condition in which Darwin used it, even to reproduction of the old wallpaper. A number of things that belonged to Darwin have been secured for this room and for the whole of the ground floor, which has been made to look as much as possible as it did up to 1882. It is the wish of Mr. Browne that the house shall be regarded as the property of the nation and be open to visitors free of charge. He also desires that the house and grounds shall be used by the British Association for the benefit of science. In making the gift he provided an endowment for its maintenance and preservation for all time. He has now made a start in getting together a Darwin collection to be housed there. The donor has also commissioned Mr. John Collier to paint copies of his portraits of Darwin and Huxley, to be hung in Downe House. Darwin, who, it is interesting to recall, was a son and grandson of a physician, worked continuously at Downe House for almost forty years. Preparations for the Origin of Species went on from 1842 until the work received its final form in 1858—1859. As has been well said, from Downe Darwin shook the world and gave human thought an impress that will endure for all time. Downe w^s also the home of a large and happy family, perhaps the most gifted family ever bom in England. There the great naturalist died, April 19, 1882, in his seventy-fourth year. The bust of Darwin, now in the Royal Academy, is to be removed to Downe House as a present from Dr. Joseph Leidy, representing the American Association for the Advancement of Science.

At the opening ceremony a large company of eminent scientists and descendants of Darwin were present. Sir William

Digitized by v^ooQle
288

Bragg, president of the British Association, presided. After de-, daring the house open to the public, Sir Arthur Keith said that they had the best of reasons for believing that Darwin came of a stock which had lived for more than 3,000 years on English soil; that seemed a sufficiently long period to make him English to the core. He was gentle and modest almost beyond parallel, loving and loved in his home as few men had been, thoughtful for his community, just and charitable even to those who sought to brand him as an enemy of mankind. Downe House was an abode of goodness as well as of genius; that was one reason why it should become a national heritage. The present ceremony had an international character, and it was right that that should be so. Darwin, quite unwittingly, made these few acres of Kentish upland an international possession. In those grounds, gardens, orchards, meadows and walks, and within those walls, were slowly hammered, hot from fact, new doctrines, which slowly penetrated to the ends of the earth, giving humanity a new interpretation of living things and of its relationship to them. Human thought was forcibly and permanently thrust from its old time-honored ruts. Even more important than his teaching was the manner in which Darwin taught. He permitted the bare, unhusked truth to speak for itself; he went only so far as the light of reason would carry him. Only men who teach thus continue to teach for all time.

Dr. Joseph Leidy mentioned that, on the first edition of the Origin of Species reaching America, Darwin was elected a corresponding member of the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences, on the motion of Joseph Leidy, the naturalist, and that probably was the first society to accord the book official recognition.

THE BASAL METABOLISM OF OVERWEIGHT CHILDREN

The consideration of the physiologic background of obesity would be greatly simplified if all cases could be explained on the basis of overfeeding, physical inactivity, or both of these factors. There are too many apparent objections to warrant such generalizations. Instances of constitutional or pathologic obesity not due to overeating or underexercising are familiar to every physician. Endocrine disturbances occasionally lead to undue gains in weight; one need recall the condition sometimes described as adiposogenital dystrophy. In the cases of endogenous obesity of frank glandular etiology, a lowered basal metabolic rate has often been observed. Under such conditions it is easier to understand how the decrease in chemical changes leading to loss of energy may give rise to gains in body weight that could not be secured otherwise on the same food intake. Whether the more conventional type of overweight—so-called exogenous obesity—may be explained by a lowered basal metabolism, with its resulting conservation of energy and food fuel in the body, is not so clear. There are both proponents and opponents for the thesis that in
289

such ordinary types of obesity the basal metabolism is lowered. If it is true that “obesity is one of the most common diseases,” as Du Bois has designated it, the preponderance of evidence from the best metabolic investigations seems to furnish proof of the normality of the basal metabolism in simple obesity of adults. And now the extensive studies on children conducted by Topper and Mulier at the Mount Sinai Hospital in New York warrant essentially the same conclusion. This is important because overweight in childhood is currently regarded with far more tolerance or even favor than undue size in the latter years of life. According to Topper and Mulier, the basal metabolism of overweight but otherwise normal children is usually normal, with a tendency toward a high normal rate. There is an increased basal metabolic rate in a certain percentage of overweight children which may be partly accounted for on a basis of continued overfeeding. It has, indeed, been asserted that the level of the basal metabolic rate is not an absolute one but is higher or lower according to the caloric intake. Furthermore, when the pre-pubertal period is under consideration it must not be forgotten, as Topper and Mulier point out, that during this age period many changes that are of significance are taking place in the child. There is an increase in growth, an increased activity of the endocrine glands and an awakening of the sexual life, all of which probably exert some influence on the basal metabolism of the child.

RAYON AND IRRADIATION

Originally man made his textiles from such animal and plant fibers as he found; then he began growing cotton and flax, silkworms and sheep; soon he will make his fabrics chemically. The astonishingly rapid growth of the rayon industry shows the world is already far along toward synthetic clothing. In a recent account it is shown that, whereas ten years ago 9,000,000 pounds of rayon was made in this country, the production for 1928 was almost 97,000,000 pounds. The raw material is wood pulp which, after treatment to loosen the fibers and to remove the lignin, is finally obtained as a solution of cellulose nitrate, acetate or the cuprammonium compound and forced through tiny apertures to form threads. The fabric made from this thread has been found well adapted to use in many garments and has already become well established in the textile trade. Rayon is similar to silk in appearance and is cool and nonabsorbent. Spun rayon has been used with cotton and wool and even to replace the latter in many fabrics. A small change in the process results in a kinky fiber similar to wool and at times difficult to distinguish from it. A hollow filament rayon has been produced, the contained gas of which increases the resemblance to silk, while filaments of great strength and elasticity are about to be introduced as rayon sewing thread. Rayon can be dyed satisfactorily, and the possibility of improvement from further research indicates that the industry

Digitized by v^ooQle
290

has the prospect of indefinite life. Of unique physiologic interest is the observation of Dozier and Morgan that ultraviolet rays penetrate rayon better than certain widely used cotton and silk fabrics studied. This effect depends not only on the interspaces of the cloth but also on the quality of the fiber itself. On the other hand, measurements by Coblentz of the Bureau of Standards indicate that the mesh and thickness of the material are primarily concerned in transmission of ultraviolet rays. The certain method of dosage is the application of the rays directly to the skin.

Treatment of Knock Knee.—Reschke, Berlin, reports further on the results that he obtained from the use of ivory pegs driven into bone and directed toward the epiphyseal cartilage in the treatment of knock knee. The purpose is to stimulate the epiphysis to increased growth. Among eight cases treated in this manner only one failed to show a good result. The patient was 16 years of age and had a high degree of genu valgum. The youngest patient was 12; most of the patients were between 16 and 18 years of age. The method is said not to be applicable in young patients. In each case three or four pegs are driven into the outer side of the femur, just above the epiphyseal cartilage, and directed downward toward the cartilage, and similarly into the tibia. The pegs must not touch the cartilage, nor even lie too close to it. The outer ends must not be flush with the bone, as a little protrusion is a powerful stimulus to periosteal growth.

SIMPLE LIVING KEEPS BLOOD PRESSURE DOWN

High blood pressure is not a disease, in the same sense that pneumonia or rheumatism or measles is spoken of as a disease. It is rather a condition brought about through many years by a series of causes, as are wrinkles or flat feet, Dr. Norman B. Cole explains in an article in Hygeia.

A common source of fear, doctors find, is the mistaken no* tion that all blood pressure is harmful. As a matter of facti blood pressure is a normal physiologic condition. The blood would not circulate in the arteries and veins if some pressure were not put on it. It is only when the pressure becomes less than normal or greater than normal that any attention need be paid to it.

High blood pressure, or hypertension, as it is technically called, is not a new thing; the public is merely learning more about it. Many factors influence the circulation, such as sleep, muscular exercise, digestion, mental work, the condition of the heart and the emotional state. Fear and anger, anxiety, worry and impulsiveness all tend to send the blood pressure up. Smoking and a hearty meal both raise it. Rest and sleep lower it.

If a person has been bom with blood vessels of an inferior quality or if his nervous make-up is such that the swings in his

Digitized by v^ooQle
291

blood pressure are greater than in the normal person, insidious changes take place that gradually lead to serious conditions.

Moderation is the keynote in the prevention of the troubles of high blood pressure—moderation in eating, in smoking, in activities that cause worry or fatigue, even moderation in exercise. Dr. Cole emphasizes regularity in eating, sleeping, bathing and elimination. Rule fear and anxiety out of your life, he advises. A quiet life and a contented mind will do more to keep your pressure at normal levels than all the medicine in the world.

EXERCISES WILL HELP PAINFUL FEET

Exercises for weak and painful feet as recommended by Dr. A. M. Rechtman. The following set of exercises performed for five or ten minutes three times a day will be found helpful:

1.	Rise on the toes slowly and return to position. This strengthens the calf muscle, which is the chief support of the arch.

2.	Roll out on the ankle bones so that weight of the body is supported on the outer borders of the feet and slowly return to position. This attitude overcorrects the arch and stretches the contracted tendons on the outer side of the feet which aid in turning the feet out.

3.	Slowly rise on the toes, then roll the ankles out and slowly return to position. This exercise is a combination of the previous two.

4.	Walk along a line bearing the weight on the outer side of the feet, one foot before the other.

5.	Pick up marbles with the toes.

NUTRITIVE VALUE OF IODINE

The medical research council has issued an important report on “Iodine in Nutrition” by Dr. J. B. Orr and Dr. Isabella Leitch of the Rowett Research Institute, Aberdeen. The report discusses the value of iodine in the economy of the body, and deals at length with the distribution of this element in nature. It is pointed out that the effect of iodine on plants depends on dosage. The yield of radishes grown in a control plot to which no iodine was applied was 3,240 Gm. per square meter; with an iodine dosage of 0.05 Gm. per square meter the yield was 5,400 Gm., but with a dose of 0.5 Gm. per square meter the yield fell again to 4,200 Gm. In tests with peas grown in culture solution it was found that the addition of iodine to the extent of 0.0001 Gm. per liter was accompanied by an increase of from 5 to 10 per cent in the weight of the plants. The addition of 0.001 Gm., however, was followed by a decrease in weight of about 30 per cent, and the toxic effect rapidly increased with increase of concentration of iodine above that leve. Experiments with pigs showed that

Digitized by v^ooQle
292

when a small dose of iodine had been given, the average daily gain per pig had been 1.55 pounds, whereas pigs which had not received the iodine gained 1.37 pounds. But when the dose of iodine was increased, the pigs receiving it gained less than those which received none. Experiments carried out at the Rowett Institute with twenty-four heifer calves showed that iodine-fed calves put on weight faster than the others in winter, but that on pasture during summer the others gained on the iodine-fed animals and weighed only 6 pounds less at the end of the experiment. Experiments in Switzerland showed that boys receiving

eotassium iodide grew on an average 0.7 cm. more than untreated oys, and put on 0.2 Kg. more in weight. The treated girls grew on an average 0.4 cm., and put on 0.1 Kg. more than the untreated girls. It had been found that the mean weight at birth of infants whose mothers used iodized salt was about 100 Gm. higher than that of those whose mothers did not use iodized salt. The condition of the children was improved. That was definitely shown in a marked decrease in the number of infants dying from “congenital weakness.”

RESERVE BRAIN POWER

Men showed more variations in the weight and volume of their brains than in any other part. Nature seemed to be careless as to the amount of brain given, and in many cases she showed that men with small brains succeeded just as well as, or even better than, those with larger brains. Some of the extinct races were large brained. Parts of the brain had been destroyed by accident or disease or removed by operation and yet in many cases no ultimate deterioration in ability had been observed. Had man come by a bigger brain than he needed? How had he come by it. It could hardly be as a result of use, for human beings rarely used their abilities up to 50 per cent of their capacity. One could not conceive that mere use, through an infinity of generations, could convert an ape’s brain into that of man. Apes were not given to thinking. Only one line of reasoning threw light on this curious problem—the overcapitalization of the human brain. Engineers in building bridges planned them to withstand a strain ten times that which was likely to fall on them (a “factor of safety”). All the organs and parts of living animals possessed a large factor of safety. Only athletes, and these for the briefest of spells, used their hearts and lungs to near the limit of safety; most of the time they utilized only from 10 to 15 per cent of their power. Only once or twice in a lifetime did a man exert all the power of his muscles; the power lay latent awaiting an emergency which perhaps came only once in fifty generations. The same principle applied to man’s brain; it had an enormous factor of safety. This factor had made it possible for beings designed originally for a jungle life to come to have abilities of transcendent power.

Digitized by ^ooQle
293

Recurrence of Stuttering Following Shift from Normal to Mirror Writing.—Travis reports the case of an adult with a severe grade of writing disability who began to stutter shortly after he undertook to substitute the mirrored form for the ordinary form of writing. Travis suggests that the speech disturbance was due to a conflict between the two hemispheres, comparable to that which frequently occurs when right-handed writing is forced on a left-handed child. Once the new form of writing was mastered and definitely established in the new direction, this conflict disappeared, and the stuttering also stopped.

News, notes and comments

A CORRECTION!

In our reprint of the “National Physical Achievement Standards” in the November issue of Mind and Body we omitted the copyright notice which reads as follows:

Copyright 1929 By National Physical Achievement Standards Committee*

H. S. Braucher, Chairman A. S. Barnes and Co. are the publishers.

Nuerenburg, Germany has opened a new building in one of its playgrounds where people may go to receive advice on all matters pertaining to exercise, equipment for playfields, play apparatus, repairs to balls, bats, etc., etc. The management also is prepared to give advice to children and to adults as to the advisability of taking part in any form of sport or competition. Children of poor parents may receive, free of charge here, first equipment for participation in many sports as many investigations have shown that after persons once get started in a sport, they later find the means for buying the necessary equipment.

The German Tennis Union has appointed former champion W. Hannemann as trainer for its societies. His main work consists of gathering young players at various centers in Germany . and giving them a fourteen day intensive training course.

Municipal stadiums, as a rule, do not pay expenses. Stockholm, however, had an excess of income on expenses amounting to $100,000.00 during the year 1928.

Recently, the King of Italy conferred the Order of the Crown upon the Hungarian football player Fischer because of his success in establishing good fellowship between Italy and Hungary.

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
294

The athletic club of Lyckelse, Sweden, after many years of endeavor recently won a large silver bowl. Instead of putting it away in a trophy closet, the bowl was presented to a local church to be used as a baptismal font. The club followed a precedent set by the ski-champion Hedlund who disposed of a prize in the same manner.

Several associations in Germany have inaugurated a movement to allow all boys and girls that have qualified in the German Physical Achievement Test, free admission to all athletic meets.

The University of Greifswald has added Tennis to the sports that are recognized as physical exercises demanded during two semesters of university work for students of philology.

The new movement in Sweden thht ip leading to a reconstruction ip physical education in that country has brought forth a new publication named Gymn, published by E. E. Carlberg, Stockholm. As its ideals, the magazine states that a rational system of physical education should produce character, based upon health and beauty of physique.

Sport courses for ministers is a new development in Germany showing the spread of the sport movement. Evangelical ministers are being taught in Kassel and those of the Catholic faith in Muenster.

Emil Ludwig, novelist biographer, who spends most of his time in Switzerland has given tbe city of Askona a modem gymnasium.

4800 medals are yearly donated by the government for the encouragement of physical education.

The Bowlers Association of Germany has created a national pin or badge for men and for women. In order to win this a minimum number of pins must be made on three kinds of bowling alleys. Men must bowl 200 balls and women 100 balls.

The English Football Association reports that on Saturdays approximately 75,000 pupils of its schools participate in football games. Local championship teams play off in district meets. The winners in district meets play for the “English Shield.”

Golf is winning its way in Germany. There now are 36 courses in various parts of the country.

Dr. Felix Bauer, is an article in Sport, Germany, advocates the use of skating as a corrective exercise for weak muscles of the feet and also for knock-knees.

Digitized by boogie
295

Hungary recently has adopted a progressive program for the •development of physical education. The main items are as follows: 1) The establishment of a university for physical education, 2) An indoor natatorium in Buda-Pest, 3) A stadium, 4) A summer camp capable of handling 10,000 students.

The German Association of Sports-physicians has created a subcommittee of five women physicians who are to pass on all questions relating to women’s sports.

Sport-days in Sweden appear to be unpopular. Agne Hol-strom, in the journal Gymnastijc, speaks as follows of the 15 days set aside yearly for field days: The innovation does not satisfy the teachers, the parents nor the pupils. The older teachers refuse to help and this places additional work upon the younger teachers. The early enthusiasm of pupils has given way to dissatisfaction; the field days are tedious. The parents say that after a field day their children come home injured, with torn clothes, and with developed colds.

Physical training and hygiene. Recently physical exercises have been introduced in the convalescent camp Wegsckeide near Frankfort on the Main, Germany. In a report by its director Dr. Thomsen a statement appears that the general effect of such exercises was good. The best results, as shown by the spirometer, were obtained by those who indulged in graduated distance running.

According to the results of an investigation among 1739 Russian workmen the greatest strength of the arms is during the years 30 to 40. During the next 10 years there is a rapid decrease, the right arm losing more than the left.

The State of Minnesota has recently passed a law requiring it to be the duty “of every school nurse, school physician, school attendance officer, superintendent of schools, principal, teacher and of the persons charged with the duty of compiling and keeping the school census records to cause a permanent public health record to be kept for every child of school age. Such record shall be kept in such form that it may be transferred with the child to any school which the child shall attend within the State and transferred to the board of health when the child ceases to attend school. It shall contain a record of such health matters as shall be prescribed by the board of health, and of all mental and physical defects and handioaps, which might permanently cripple or handicap the child.” Circular No. 15, U. S. Dept, of Interior.

The Public Health Service in a study of the relationship between muscular tone and good posture, carried out with a group of high school boys, found no appreciable effect of exercise as compared with comparative lack of exercise in a control group.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
296

There was, however, more rapid development of muscular power in the experimental group and there was also more rapid increase in height and weight. There was no effect from exercise on the condition of the feet.

The minister of education of New South Wales, acting on the recommendation of the council of education of that state,, has decreed that the children of the state schools shall receive individual instruction in sex physiology by the senior teachers.

The health education prograhi in the public schools in New York City will ultimately be guided by the special teachers of physical education. To this end five special teachers have been released from their motor activities program to help in developing the larger health education program. A special training course is being given to meet the needs of this group. From each school a maximum of three teachers is to be selected from those showing the most interest in health education. Each of these teachers is to be given the opportunity of taking sixty hours of schooling next year in this subject.

Dr. Louis I. Dublin who has been studying the records of 40,-000 graduates from eight colleges of classes from 1870 to 1905 finds that "for all colleges except Yale, athletes have a moderately higher mortality than their fellows, but a distinctly higher one than men of high scholastic rank. Relatively fewer athletes, in general, live on to old age than their college mates.”

DISCOVER MEASLES SERUM AT UN1V. OF CALIFORNIA

Prevention and cure of measles may result from the discovery of a serum being studied today in the Hooper Foundation Laboratories of the University of California Medical School.

Prof. Giuseppe Caroni, eminent Italian scientist, brought here from Rome as the A. P. Giannini research professor at the University { was announced yesterday as the discoverer of a germ which is said to cause measles, as well as a serum for prevention and cure of the disease.

So tiny is the germ, university doctors said, that it cannot be seen even through a microscope. By studying certain peculiarities of the disease and its after effects, often serious and permanent, Prof. Caroni is said to have discovered its cause and developed the serum which he expects to prevent it or at least effect a speedy cure. Asso. Press.

Mental Hygiene, First International Congress on.—To be held at Washington. D. C., May 5-10, 1930. Sponsored by mental hygiene and related organizations in more than twenty-six countries. Honorary President: Herbert Hoover. President: Dr. William A. White, Washington, D. C. Secretary-General: Clifford W. Beers. Address Administrative Secretary, John R. Shillady, 370 Seventh Avenue, New York City.

Digitized by Google
"Folk Dances For Boys and Girls” by Mary Effie Sham-Laugh. Published by^A. S. Barnes & Company, New York 1929. Cloth bound 9” x 11”. 143 pages. Price $3.00.

The author in this book offers a variety of folk dances representing several nations. The dances cover a wide range both as to type and as to degree of difficulty. Selections may be made for grade school or for high school purposes. The descriptions of the dances are detailed and supplemented by pictures and diagrams. Teachers interested in folk dances will find some useful material in this book.

—E.

“A Water Program For Camps” by Thos. K. Cureton Jr. (American National Red Cross). Published by P. Blakiston’s Son & Company, Philadelphia, Pa. 1929. Paper bound 4” x 6”. 162 pages. Price $..60.

This little volume contains much valuable material. Each chapter deals with a specific phase of the water program. The several chapters deal with such important problems as the Organization of Personnel, Materials of Construction and Equipment, Programs of Activities suited to various groups. Methods and Procedure of Teaching, and Management of Activities.

The topics are outlined and discussed in detail. Many useful pictures and diagrams are contained in the booklet.

It is a handy and practical guide for all those who are interested in water programs.

—Fred E. Foertsch

“The Organization of Supervision” by Fred C. Ayer and A. S. Barr, published by D. Appleton and Co., New York, 1928; cloth bound 5” x 8”, 397 pages; price $2.25.

This book belongs to the Appleton series in supervision and teaching. It contains a comprehensive outline of the problems of organization and administration of supervision in city school systems of various sizes. The types and merits of these systems are discussed in considerable detail.

The first two chapters discuss the "Rise of Supervision” and "The Present Status”. These are followed by chapters on “Distribution of Supervisory Duties,” "The Place of Special Supervision,” Supervising Officials,” “Types of Supervisory Organization,” "Organization in Large Cities,” "Small School Systems” and “Principles of Efficiency.”

The book presents valuable material for those who are especially interested in administration and supervision.

—Fred E. Foertsch.

Digitized by t^ooQle
THE HEW BASKET BALL BOOK OF THE TEAR

BASKET BALL FOR COACHES AND PLAYERS

By George F. Veenker, Basket Ball Coach, University of Michigan

8vo, Cloth* Illustrations and Diagrams.	Price,	$3.00

The sensational success of Mr. Veenker at the University of Michigan has attracted the attention of the entire athletic fraternity. Last year his team fought to a tie for the Western Conference Championship, twice defeating the University of Wisconsin, sharing the Championship with them.

The book embodies all the latest developments in strategy, attack and defense of basket ball. Fully illustrated with action pictures and diagrams.

The Contents

Preparation for a Season Equipping a Basket Ball Team Training, Diet, Conditioning and Injuries Early Season Practice Regular Practice Season Selection of Players for Positions Individual Offensive Fundamentals Team Offense Center Tip-Off

Out of Bounds Plays Individual Defense Team Defense Scouting

Relation of Manager to Coach Basket Ball Trips

Conduct of the Coach Toward Officials General Suggestions

Every Basket Ball Coach Should Own This Book

Two New Books of Vital Importance to Every Physical Educator, Teacher and Educational Administrator Educational Objectives of Physical Activity

By Frederick Rand Rogers, State Director of Physical Education,

New York.

One of the most telling contributions to the cause of Physical Education that has appeared. Dr. Rogers shows conclusively that Physical Education is as important a part of education in general as any subject in the curriculum. He supports his hypothesis by referring to leading educational authorities and his critical discussions of the references used challenge the attention of the educational world.

Bound in cloth. Size 7% x inches.	Price, $1.00

The Deeper Meaning of Physical Education

By Dr. Eugen Matthias, Professor of the Biology of Physical

Education, University of Munich. Translated by Carl L.

Schrader, Mass. State Supervisor of Physical Education.

In his Foreword, Dr. Matthias says: “The purpose of this treatise is to cause as many people as possible to understand and appreciate the lofty and many-sided meaning of Physical Education, and to enthuse and encourage all to a joyful realization of life in all its fullness.”

Uniform with Dr. Roger’s book	Price,	$1.00

A. 8. Barnes & Co.

PUBLISHERS

67 West 44th Street	New	York	City.