MIND AND BODY

Vol. 42

OCTOBER 1935

No. 429

A Proposal to Study Learnings and their Attributes by Means of Mechanical and other Devices

Howard A. Gray, Ph. D. Research Associate, Erpi Picture Consultants, New York, N. Y.

FOREWORD

The initiation of any controversial undertaking should be prefaced with definite statements devoted to the clarification of as many of the verbal concepts of the problem as possible. This is desirable because it often avoids misinterpretations particularly where abstract relationships have been made additionally confusing by loose terminology or by failures to employ specific terminology. The patience of the reader, therefore, will be solicited while consideration is given to the writer’s interpretation of the terms, learning, attitudes, emotions, appreciations, and interests, together with their constituents, relationships, and psychological significance.

To begin with, the encyclopediac definitions of the terms mil be described. Following this, an attempt will be made to define them more objectively in physiological terminology, and, finally, to provide an interpretation of their psychological implications.

POPULAR DEFINITIONS

Learning is commonly defined as knowledge obtained by study or from instruction. Its synonyms of education, erudition, instruction, knowledge, lore, scholarship, training, study, and tuition are used often in generalizations which become confusing when subjected to critical analysis. The inadequacy of such a narrow conception of learning rests in the fact that it considers nothing in mental phenomena beyond the mere acquisition of information for repetition from memory.

Attitudes, as will be developed later, are a correlative of learning. The dictionary definition of the term, however, describes it as a state of mind, behavior, or conduct regarding a situation and indicating opinion or purpose. Probably its use has resulted in less controversy in education than has the use of the

Digitized by ^.ooQle
90

term learning. Nevertheless, not a great deal is known about the acquisition of attitudes in human beings, nor the part the former play in the integration of personality.

Closely related to attitudes are the so called appreciations. If the latter are to be thought of as the quality of esteem or distinct perception it seems that they then characterize types or degrees of attitudes. It may be difficult in some cases to distinguish between attitude and appreciation, especially when one may be an attribute of the other.

Emotions—states a standard philological reference—consist of a stirring perturbation or excitement of the mind. Such an explanation has little meaning. It fails to indicate either physiological involvements or the psychological significance of emotional phenomena. Certainly in experimental education the meaning of the term must be clarified because of the role emotional states play in the conditioning and the achievement of the individual. World affairs have been and will continue to be tinged by emotional reactions.

The word interest is rather a broad term, having numerous synonyms and often is used generally in lieu of a better description for a nunber of attributes. The word itself is an engaging part of speech and may be used either as a transitive verb or as a common noun. Originally it was used to mean to be of advantage to, but educationally it more frequently alludes to the act of participating or of arousing regard. Its synonyms include the words amuse, attract, concern, engage, entertain, excite, hold, import, matter, and occupy. In pedagogical parlance, the word when used as a noun attempts to describe a state of attention, a sense of concern, and sometimes sympathy or curiosity, in so far as it pertains to a type of human reaction. Obviously, before attempting to measure the psychological aspects which the use of the word implies, it will be necessary to limit the definition to a particular type or state of reaction. For purposes of mensuration it may be thought of as the extent to which an organism may experience the urge to think about a phenomenon, or to become more aware of that phenomenon by sensory contact.

PHYSIOLOGICAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL CONCEPTIONS

The physiological and psychological terminology to be employed in discussing the preceding five terms is based upon a materialistic conception of the higher mental processes. -The mysticism which has been attached to these phenomena is discarded for a more tangible, objective and realistic consideration of the human organism as an integrated whole. It is in harmony with the viewpoints of those biologists, psychologists, physiologists, and medical researchers, who have forsaken the method of introspection alone for a more objective appraisal of the factors constituting mental activity. Before proceeding with a discussion of the variables of learning, attitudes, emotions, appreciations,

Digitized by Google
91

and interests from this viewpoint, it will be necessary to deal with the entity commonly referred to as mind and its manifestations.

Mind is here conceived of as the complex of man's elaborate reacting mechanisms—the nervous, glandular, and muscular systems. Its various attributes have a physical basis and a mechanistic organization. Intelligence, for example, is described as the degree of modifiability characterizing the neuro-glandular-muscu-lar media. The permanency of the media’s modifications is thought of as memory. The state in which the media exist is described as consciousness, attitude, and appreciation. The impulses which motivate the functioning of the media are described as interest, curiosity, attention, excitement,and their like. It may be that such impulses differ somewhat in character and magnitude but they appear to have many elements in common. The process by which the media are developed has been known as thought, emotion, learning, imagination, and other expressions. These terms may be thought of as describing aspects of the process, but all aspects of the process are interdependent, and cannot exist without one another. As they are dependent upon various states of consciousness, they likewise vary in degree.

To avoid confusion, all aspects of the process of change which media undergo in their development will, from now on, be referred to as learning. Learning occurs, then, in varying degrees. Zero learning implies that no change has been made in the media. Maximum learning is to be thought of as the degree of change in the media necessary to affect permanently the overt behavior of the organism.

PAST PROBLEMS

Beginning in the latter part of the nineteenth century various experimental procedures have been developed in studying and attempting the measurement of these mental phenomena. The barrenness of the results can be attributed to a number of factors chief among which are the inadequacy of introspection per se regarding the nature of mind and mental activity; the lack of suitable experimental apparatus with which to conduct more objective experimentation; the failure of investigators in various fields to become familiar with and utilize the findings of each other’s studies, and, lastly, the general lack of knowledge relating to the coordinated reactions of the glandular, muscular and nervous systems.

The psychologist has devoted many of his efforts to laboratory experiments on animal and human subjects. These endeavors have yielded some valuable information but due to experimental variables and the limitations of the techniques utilized, little has been learned about the functioning of the human mind as a whole. In addition to the laboratory work, countless paper and pencil tests have been devised for the measurement of the mental traits with which this paper is concerned. The validity and re-

Digitized by v^ooQle
92

liability of such tests have been rightly questioned by many classes of investigators and the limitations of this sort of research have been demonstrated frequently.

One has but to review the outcome of these efforts to realize the necessity for experimentation combining the laboratory, paper and pencil tests, and oral examination of the individual, together with an analysis of the stimuli to which he reacts.

PRESENT TRENDS

Of late, workers in more objective fields of scientific research have taken an active interest in the problems with which psychology has been concerned. The biologist, physiologist, chemist, physicist, and such specialists as the endrocrinologist, the neurologist and the psychobiologist have been making amazing revelations regarding the physical basis and functioning of the human mind. It is a significant fact that more and more these researchers are being forced to utilize the apparatus of the physics laboratory in their explorations. They likewise can no longer avoid interpreting their findings in terms and units for a long time restricted to physical concepts. It is the writer’s belief that future enlightenment on the mysteries of human behavior will be made to a great extent by means of physics laboratory apparatus.

A definite relationship already has been established between mental activity and electrical phenomena. It remains for man to study mental activity, as he now observes other electrical manifestations. In doing this, no theory or facts having a bearing on the problem, should be dealt with lightly until their values have been definitely determined. Already, laudable progress has been made with the findings of numerous researchers. Herrick[10*] has concluded that not only can the brain’s electricity be measured, but in the future mental activity will be determind in definite units of electrical and chemical energy.

A brief summary and interpretation of the findings of these experimenters should, convince even the most skeptical observer of the possibilities of ridding psychology and education of much of the uncertainty and futile gropings which have arisen as a consequence of inadequate instructional and measuring devices.

•Numbers indicate references listed in bibliography.

[To be continued in the next issue]

Was Swedish Gymnastics Dull?

By Major Oswald Holmberg, Lecturer in the Theory and Practise of Pedagogical Gymnastics, Royal Gymnastic Institute, Stockholm.

By the middle of the last century knowledge of Swedish gymnastics had spread all over the world, and by the commencement of the new century there were few countries in which Ling's gymnastics in some form or other had not been introduced. This progress did not come about, however, without strong resistance

Digitized by LjOOQie
93

and criticism. The objections to Swedish educational gymnastics were mainly the following: the selection of exercises was poor and did not allow variety, the movements were too simple to be interesting, there were no exercises which would give self-reliance and courage or grip the youth: in other words Swedish gymnastics was dull! [1]

The opinion in Sweden during the nineteenth century was practjcally the same. Indeed, in some places opinion grew that to yifeld the correct effect Swedish gymnastics must be tedious. Teachers who made their lessons enjoyable for the children were suspected of being unorthodox, while on the other hand joy-killing teachers were even considered good pedagogues. The fact remains that only very few persons cbntihued the practice of gymnastic exercises after leaving school [records by teachers of fencing prove this as far as the public schools are concerned]. For most people it was a relief to discontinue compulsory gymnastics, and surely some pupils had even grown to detest anything ih connection with gymnastics.

During the last twenty years this condition has undergone a vast change for the bettor in Sweden, but in many places abroad opinion still holds that Swedish gymnastics is tame and fails to interest tne growing generation.

Where shall one look for the reasons for this general opinion that Swedish gymnastics is dull? Must one blame the founder of the system, P. H. Ling? It is true that school gymnastics was the part to which Ling gave least time in practice, and in writing he has dealt very little with the matter, but one can trace his opinion in a manuscript[2] which still exists and which clearly shows that Ling did not conceive school gymnastics as a drill-like mech-chanical repetition of certain exercises, in a certain order, without consideration for the children’s need of variation and enjoyment.

Amongst other things he saySdn the document: “Let them [the C children] now and again run about and make a noise for a short time. This keeps the spirit and strengthens vital inner parts of the body. Let them sing with full voice and good rhythm when marching.” Even in “Gymnsatikens Allmanna Grander” Ling points out the importance of making gymnastics pleasurable to the mind, and in which he warns against monotony and pedantry in the teaching. The following is an example: “To cut out enjoyment from gymnastics and strive only for solid work without deviation from a set scheme is to kill the spirit of gymnastics.” ) That ling also carried out this theory in practice, is verified by one of his own pupils. Colonel A. Adlersparre, [3] who says: “The father of our gymnastics was surely an excellent method-maker, but one must not think that he let the style smother the spirit. He possessed an exceptional ability to put life into the lesson, both as regards gymnastics and fencing, and he also had a special,, suitable and stimulating command for all purposes.” That Ling felt at home amongst the youth is proved also by other contemporary witnesses, whom he made enthusiastic for

Digitized by boodle
94

the new subject. From that it should be clear that it would be unfair to blame P. H. Ling for any dullness in Swedish gymnastics.

The men whom Ling himself had chosen to carry on his work were Lars Gabriel Branting and Carl August Georgii. The former first came as a child under the care of Ling and regained health and strength, but was interested solely in medical gymnastics. The reason for Branting’s lack of interest in educational gymnastics was, according to Hj. Ling, that he considered it still as embryonic, arid that he [Branting] mistrusted his own ability to change the general opinion amongst gymnasts, that gymnastics lacked any close relationshi p with the laws of the organism. [4]

The second of Ling's successors, Georgii, was the only one of his helpers who had taken up all the branches of gymnastics, whereby he had gained a thorough knowledge of the Lingian exercises. His experience and knowledge would therefore have been of extreme value in separating the various movements in medical and educational gymnastics when this latter was introduced in the schools. Unfortunately he left the Institute as early as 1876 and went to live abroad, where he specialised in medical gymnastics.

The lack of someone interested in school gymnastics and one who could adapt Ling’s principles to educational needs, and one who could also make a choice of suitable exercises out of the available collection, showed very clearly when this new subject was introduced in the schools. In many places only heaves and vaulting, while in others only free-standing work and only from the simplest starting positions, were practised. The choice of exercises became smaller and smaller—“ dried up in a ridiculous way” as a contemporary gymnastic writer expresses it.

The reasons for this sad condition were according to Hj. Ling[5] as follows: disagreement as to the value and influence of physical exercises with children, adolescents and soldiers; confusion in official regulations of educational authorities concerning gymnastics; lack of collaboration between the Central Institute and public schools; uncertainty of the relative amount of time alotted to gymnastics and fencing; vagueness in the syllabus due to almost complete lack of textbooks.

There were, as can be seen, many and big difficulties to overcome for the man who was to lead the development of school gymnastics. Owing to prevailing circumstances, P. H. Ling’s son, Hjalmar, was given this great task. The first'official move to obtain order in school gymnastics was the editing of “Tabeller i Friskgymnastik,” 1886, as a testbook of exercises and commanding for the pupils at the Central Institute during their training. This work, together with the Supplement, was for years to be the only printed guide in educational gymnastics at the Institute. Its value was that it made clear the arrangement of the gymnastic lesson.

Digitized by CjOOQle
95

During a gymnastic lesson the body should—according to Ling—get systematically worked through by means of exercises with different influences, put together in certain groups and used in a certain order. In this way the Swedish table originated. Also, movements in each group should be used in a certain sequence, depending upon their degree of difficulty—thus progression originated. Ling gave in his main syllabus [6—12] examples of the application of these two principles [a] the order of the exercises, and [b] the progression of exercises in the same group from table to table. He allowed deviation from the order of the exercises on several occasions—so-called ‘permittable changes.’ According to him, the syllabus should not only serve as a guide but also embody freedom. Of this freedom there was to be very little or nothing in practice.

Many years after the death of Ling the tables used for the students’ training had the same construction as laid down* in the main syllabus, and in the schools out in the country the gymnastic teachers adhered to the old order from habit or laziness. Perhaps at times they had a lurking fear that an official inspection would stamp them as untrue followers of Ling. The set composition of a table easily became—according to a Danish critic[6]—either a shackle apd fetter or an easy way out, depending on the disposition of the individual. This strict observance of the order of the exercises led to the invasion of casualness, boredom and fatigue into the Swedish gymnastics lesson, especially in the case of the youth for whom gymnastics was compulsory.

The above-mentioned main syllabus provided an example of the progression of various tables. Ling gave in the marginal text more detailed description of how this was done. One had to use independent introductions, practise getting and holding starting positions before any exercise was taken, sometimes using duplicated movements with active support. The aim with this detailed description was the achievement of style on which the benefit of the exercise depended.

Ling must, nevertheless, have had a feeling that a rigorous observance of progression was very difficult if interest was to be maintained, as he allowed passing on from exercises which were not perfected, to more difficult ones, provided that a return to the former was eventually made. This indulgence as well as that of deviation in the order of the exercises was not made in practice. The reasons for this were the same as above, namely, habit or fear. The result was that pedantic progression led to lack of interest amongst the pupils, who were never allowed to try their strength on more difficult and strenuous tasks, and who found it difficult to appreciate the change caused by a trunk leaning backward taken with hands on hips one week, and the next with arms bent.

Writing on the development of educational gymnastics, P. H. Ling in his works states that, as gymnastics should be a preservative against the katabolism of the organism, it must be imbued with physiological and pathological ideas. This faulty out-

Digitized by

Google
96

look on the aim and means when applied to both educational and medical gymnastics, which Ling makes himself guilty of, might have been due to his own ill-health[7] from which he suffered in early years.

The same faulty outlook is expressed by his son Hjalmar, who, in a manuscript called “Gymnastica Rediviva” says, “Pedagogical gymnastics can only be built on the experience gained by medical gymnastics [t. e., what one ought or ought not to do] if one is to give a sound foundation based on the oi the organism, with a critical selection and with an aim for simplicity in view." This mixing up of medical and educational gymnastics must be one of the main reasons for the dullness of Swedish gymnastics. Not only the choice of exercises but also the method [i. e., the execution] was influenced by this opinion.

As to the method, Ling develops its principles in the following way[8]: The conditions for a correct gymnastic position are the same as for full breathing, as for one giving greatest beauty and strength in performance. Every correctly performed gymnastic movement done with full attention and will-power can therefore be regarded as an exercise for the thorax [^‘respiratory exercise”]. A correct position is clearly shown by the carriage and relationship of the head, neck, chest, shoulders and abdomen. While this applies firstly to positions it applies also to movements, as the latter are dependent on the former. Therefore all performers of gymnastics are dependent not only on degree, but also on style, even as regards vaulting.

In practice it was style which became the dominating factor at the expense of degree and movement. The following was the general rule. Before a combined exercise was taken, the simple movements comprising it were practised. The result was that gymnastics came to consist of positions retained for a longer or shorter time, depending upon the quickness of the teacher to detect and correct faults. Even jumping and vaulting were analysed to embrace style. The landing was stopped in spring standing that corrections could be given, and some vaults were introduced with semi-vaults or by stopping in the middle of the movement, which often claimed more from the gymnast than did the finished exercise.

It follows that in- such a method, the more conscientious the teacher was, the more harmful were the effects on his pupils, and the more difficult was it for him to satisfy their need of recreation, which demanded movement, speed and life. The method became still more “boring" for the children when the teacher expected a style which they were physically unable to adopt. The following example serves to make this statement clear. Crook hanging [on wallbars] calls for normal suppleness in shoulder joint, and quite strong abdominals and hip flexors. If one of these conditions is lacking it is impossible to do the exercise correctly.

Digitized by CjOOQle


97

Many old-time gymnastic teachers did not realise this, but claimed a correct performance even of pupils who lacked any appreciable ability. The result was that these pupils, feeling their inability, found the teacher’s [sometimes rough] correction unjust, and thus developed a dislike, not only for the particular exercise, but for gymnastics in general. Frequently, the teacher tried to train the pupils by oft repetition the exercise instead of increasing the mobility in the shoulder joints and strengthening the muscles by other exercises. Another position rather painful for many gymnasts with stiff shoulders is span bending, and for them it is impossible to do the exercise satisfactory. But the teachers did not realise the necessity of first increasing mobility in the shoulder joints to a certain extent, to obtain the correct form of a span bending. Instead they tried to force this position with static muscle work, which endeavour of course failed.

Another condition which caused the same difficulty in achieving the gymnastic style and therefore had the same sad influence on the children’s interest, was the costume in the 19th Century. The children, doing gymnastics in waistcoats, bodices and jerseys, could not perform the exercises correctly, as they were hampered by the clothing. They were corrected for faulty performance and thus found gymnastics dull.

Even in the case of vaulting, which is joy to all healthy boys, Hj. Ling emphasised the all-important style. To understand how the claim of style in vaulting can influence interest, one must remember that the foundation of interest is the ability, relatively early, to master the exercise with safety. If the teacher from the beginning claims a gymnastic style, he works against and complicates the teaching of the vault, and when the pupils do not feel they make progress, they easily lose interest.

Hj. Ling and his contemporaries were of the opinion that style [which is subjective] and prowess [marked objective ability] were in opposition to each other, and could not be obtained together. If prowess was aimed at in gymnastics then style would suffer, and the beneficial effect of the exercise would be lost. According to these writers the effect was dependent mainly in style. But style and prowess [which is high functional ability] are not in opposition to each other—rather the opposite. To perform more difficult exericses in gymnastics requires that isolation of unnecessary muscular action and freedom from stiffening which we call gymnastic style. The same principles apply to athletic sports.

The reason why Hj. Ling did not wish to stimulate development of the prowess or accomplishment element was, perhaps that he had seen some teachers ignore most of their pupils in order to display the capabilities of a few, especially at demonstrations. Ling was right in working against this misconception, emphasising that it was the duty of the gymnastic teacher to try to adapt the exercises in such a way that they became beneficial to the majority.

Digitized by v^ooQle
98

Further, he held the opinion that working for gymnastic prowess would lead to one-sided development of the gymnast’s physical abilities and, besides, as Ling himself says, “would mislead the spectators as to the real value of gymnastics.” There was also the possibility that the work of the most able ones would dishearten those less able, who lacked high physical accomplishment. Surely then, Ling intended that one should be content with as much ability as style embodies, and that to work for gymnastic ability beyond this is to stray toward one-sidedness and harmful exaggeration. It is easy then to cross the border between true gymnastics and acrobatics or artificiality [gymnastica vitirsa].

Ling and his helpers did not realise that, by putting style first at the expense of gymnastic prowess,, they deprived themselves of the greatest impulse for awakening the children’s interest in physical exercises. Static gymnastics, lacking all trace of joy, could not possibly satisfy their need of action, and they [the children] could not understand its effect and value. Physical prowess and mastery over the body children can appreciate, and exercising to effect these also gives them, in opposition to static gymnastics an opportunity to develop courage and amhition, which is so much appreciated by healthy youth.

Besides this, the opinion of Hj. Ling of the dominating place that static gymnastics should hold in school gymnastics does not seem to coincide with the development that P. H. Ling had intended this branch of his gymnastics to take. Static gymnastics is badly suited to achieve the aim of educational gymnastics, which, according to P. H. Ling’s definition, ought to teach pupils to subordinate their bodies to their own will, i. e., to master them. That agility exercises were necessary P. H. Ling was surely aware of, as he highly appreciated strength and ability in his pupils. He also included fairly difficult exercises in his table for the Gymnastic Central Institute.[9]

In the above an explanation has been attempted to show to what extent the choice of exercises and the way they were carried out, can have caused the dullness of Swedish gymnastics. Let us now examine to what extent teachers themselves have been guilty of giving the gymnastics this character. The teachers were, during the latter half of the 19th Century, mostly officers, who had been gazetted to the Gymnastic Central Institute, where they were trained. Later, as salaried gymnastic teachers, they welcomed this increase to their small officers’ pay. It could therefore happen that natural suitability and true interest were sometimes lacking, thus of course minimising the possibility for making the work interesting for the pupils.

The big class, sometimes 200 strong, called for strict discipline to make any organised exercises possible, and the short time available for gymnastics made the drill type of work necessary. In this the qualifications of the military teachers
99

came to the fore, and thus it was not surprising to find that they taught their school classes and military groups on similar lines, irrespective of differences in age, time available, and aim. This was harmful for both categories, especially for the children. The average pupil would feel as a mere number in the line, missing the personal contact of the teacher necessary for stimulation.

The little differentiation shown between children and recruits by the military gymnastic teachers was caused by their training at the Central Institute, where that of the military instructors went together with that of teachers of school gymnastics, and where those responsible for the eduational gymnastics[10] were of the opinion that the methods both in school and military gymnastics should be the same in spite of the difference in aim.[11] If the question was asked: “Were the officers able to make gymnastics interesting and enjoyable?” the answer would be “Not as a rule.” There were exceptions who through their personality, their burning interest and appeal to the pupils’ instincts, strength and courage, were able to awaken a life-lasting interest for physical exercises.

A summary of the main causes which have made Swedish gymnastics {lull would therefore be: [1] the connection of educational gymnastics with, and its dependence on, medical gymnastics, which led to an unsuitable choice of exercises and methods, stereotyped tables, detailed progression, and exaggeration of the corrective element at the expense of “go and life,” combined with an over-use of positions for the control of “scientifically correct” style based on experience in medical gymnastics; [2] underestimation of the value of physical prowess; [3] the connection between educational and military gymnastics, which led to a drill-like performance of the exercises.

That Hj. Ling could see the weaknesses in the methods is made clear in several of his quotations. Talking about the danger of stiffening in gymnastic exercise he says: “The general teacher who, of short-sightedness or lack of patience, treates children as machines, is running a great risk of killing their spirit. In gymnastics there is no exception: on the contrary one often finds sad examples of this treatment.” Further, in several places, he emphasies the need of variety in the tables and the necessity of their being led [taught] with the “greatest spirit,” thus eliminating any dullness for the children. “Whoever fails to obtain both form and life with 30—50 children should never have anything to do with gymnastics.”

This is his advice. Writing on the importance of natural ability to the intending teacher of gymnastics he says: “To guard against the danger of pedantry in the teaching of gymnastics there are no ‘Antidotes,’ any more than there exist any artificial means by which one can fill a human being who is impossible as a teacher, with a stimulating spirit.”

Digitized by L^ooQle
100

That Ling also realised the importance of athletic sports as a complement to gymnastics the following will show: “The work for muscle isolation, which is necessary in the beginning to simplify the movements and avoid by-movements, will later be unnecessary or harmful. One will then glide over to applied exercises and more enjoyable sports, and exercises in open order be less used.”|12] Unfortunately Ling was not able to put these absolutely correct theories into practice, because of his lack of understanding of the children’s need of spirit, also because of his theoretical disposition and his short experience as a teacher of practical gymnastics.

Fortunately, here in Sweden during the past twenty years a great change for the better has taken place. There must be very few school children indeed who find gymnastics dull to-day. Further, the membership of the voluntary gymnastic associations of Sweden has grown during the past 15 years from 8,000 to 110,000, which shows that plaint of the tediousness of Swedish gymnastics no longer has justification.

1	Angerstein-Kurth: “Geschichte der Leibesubungen,” 3rd Ed., p. 127. Demeny, Philippe et Racine: “D’Education Physique,” Paris, 1914, p.

102.

Tait McKenzie: “Exercise in Education and Medicine,” Philadelphia, 1917, pp. 108-126.

2	C. A. Westerblad: “Ling.”

3	“Den skandinaviska ungdomens gymnastisk mil it am a uppfostran”:

a lecture by P. L. [A. Adlerspane], 1882, I.

4	“Educational gymnastics at the Royal Gymnastic Institute, 1843-

1873,” Tidskrift in Gymnastik. Vol. I, p. 80.

6	Ibid. p. 76.

6	J. Lindhard: “Den specielle Gymnastikteori,” 3rd Ed., p. 123.

7	Ibid. p. 35.

8	“Tabeller i Friskgymnastik.”

9	C. A. Westerblad: “Ling.” Historical investigations, I. pp. 187-201.

10	Hj. Ling and L. M. Torngivn.

11	“Gymnastikreglement for Flottan,” 1878. L. M. Tomgren. Preface.

12	Supplement to “Tabellema,” 6th edit., pp. 12-13.

—Phy. Edu. & Sch. Hygiene, England.

Indian Sports in Olden Days in Madras

By Rao Bahadur w. Krishna Rao Bhonsle, I.S.O.,

It is with pleasure that I attempt a peep into the life of “Indian sports in olden days in Madras.”

“The records regarding athletic activities in Ancient India are very meagre,” says Mr. A. F. W. Dixon, I.C.S., but he adds that “from the Mahabharatha, the Ramayana, and other sources we know that hunting, riding, elephant-racing, archery, boxing, wrestling, fencing, mace-drill and throwing the discus, were all

Digitized by Google
101

indulged in.” In the former epic, it is stated that Jarasandha and Bhima wrestled, and the story goes that the match lasted for twenty-eight days and that it was only by his own prowess that Bhima was in the end able to defeat the former. In the Ramayana, it is stated that Queen Kaikeyi came to the rescue of her husband, King Dasaratha, when the wheel of his chariot had to be lifted, while he himself was engaged in battle. The Queen lifted up the wheel and enabled the chariot to move about from wherein her huspand was fighting his enemies.

We read that throughout the best period of Hindu History, Vyayama [Physical Culture] was enforced upon everyone—high or humble. The ideal of Brahmacharyam or studentship is that the first twenty-five years of life ought to be spent in the development of the intellect and of the body. During the period of Brahmacharyam, students were trained under the system of Gurukula [the residential school of a preceptor] and the best of India’s sons of the highest and noblest families and princes were sent to Gurus to be trained, not to love the life of softness and luxury, but to love the life of hardness and hardship and to be prepared to begin the duties of life as Grahastha [householder].

Brahmacharyam enjoins upon the young the Pranayama exercises, Sandhya [Greetings to Dawn] and Suryanamaskaram [Sun Adoration] are physical exercises for higher purposes. The scientific principles involved in the latter are recognised as enabling the vital organs to function normally and to ensure robust health rather than develop muscular strength. The application of sight and speech in Namaskarams is useful in concentrating the mind. Certain mantras should be chanted during Suryanamaskaram. The order of reciting these mantras was so scientifically designed in ancient days that whatever be the number of repetitions, one never'gets out of breath.

To secure the undivided attention of the mind, it is exhorted in the Bhagavad-Gita as follows:—“Look at the tip of your nose, don’t look round here and there.” Hindu women make every day a certain number of circumambulations of the sacred Tulasi plant [Ocimum basilicum] grown in many of their homes. Men and women make prathakshanams [going the rounds of the central shrines of a Hindu temple]—an indication that even for the weaklings and the weaker sex, light exercise has been prescribed as a sacred duty.

Some Ancient Games

In South India, there have been indoor and outdoor indigenous sports and games of hoary antiquity. Here are some of them:

KILLITATTO

Several straight lines are drawn in the sand with the foot, leaving a space of eight or ten yards between. The players divide themselves into two parties, the one advancing, the other opposing. The former party stands in a regular row and the latter opposes the advance, electing the best among them as their lead-

Digitized by v^-ooQle
102

er; and he is called the Kitti.The Kitti always stands on the last line and watches the movements of the advancing party. This is really a running game requiring resource, adroitness and activity, played in the evenings and on moonlight nights on the village common, with a certain amount of regularity and rule. Girl teams also used to play this game.

KITTUPPULLU

A kind of cricket played from early times—all the players who assemble in the playground, stand on one side except one who is to hold both the bat and the pullu [a piece of stick two inches long]; he strikes the pullu in such a way that it may rise to a great height and give a chance to the players to catch it as it comes down. Whoever catches the pullu becomes the striker; so the game resembles somewhat the catch of the cricket of today. The game develops both strength and agility.

GOODOO-GOODOO

This is another open-air exercise. It resembles to a certain extent the football of the West. Two parties meet on the village common and separate themselves by a line drawn on the ground. One takes the lead by sending a member of the party to cross the line and touch one of the opponents without being caught by them. While he proceeds, he utters without taking breath, the words “goodoo-goodoo.” If he cannot hold his breath repeating the words until he crosses the line that divides the parties, he is a dead man on the field and is not allowed to play again till the game ends.

SILAMBAM

This is an exercise in itself and also practised as an art of offence and defence. Each of the pupils who learn this is armed with a long and strong stick; and the tutor has a similar one with which he instructs the pupils how to twirl the stick in defending or attacking. The art was taught to all fighting-men. Side by side with Silambam, the sturdy exercises of Dandal, Bhuski, Charkaman, Santhola, Jodi and Karla wre also practised in the Gardis [old Indian Gymnasium organizations]. Boys commenced practising these exercises on the Vildadasami Day.

ARCHERY

The Hindus who cultivated archery assiduously were masters in the use of the bow from horseback. Archery practice consisted also in shooting a number of arrows at one time often from four to nine. The arrows also returned to the archer. These are Indian boomerangs. It is stated in “The Prince of Wales’ Tour: A Diary in India” by W. H. Russell, that the Ranee of Siva-ganga presented the prince [afterwards King Edward VII] “with boomerangs of steel inlaid with silver and with gold mountings showing that the use of the boomerang is not confined to Australia.”
103

WRESTLING

This was popular even in very early times. There used to be an institution by itself of the Malyththa Jetties in the Tanjore Palace in the days when Tanjore Rajas were ruling. These trained wrestlers were under the patronage of the Mahratta Kings of Tanjore. Rajah Sarfoiee, a mighty ruler of Tanjore, used to try each wrestler’s strength by himself wrestling with him and then allow combatants for a match.

BOXING

This art was so important as to make even the religious Buddhists practise it for protecting its monasteries. The Buddhist Jatakas state that the University of Taxila was noted for the proficiency of its professors in Archery and the passed students were awarded diplomas.

CHAUGHAN

Chaughan [Indian Polo] was an old game practised in India. It was borrowed from Persia. Kutbu’d-din Aibak, the first Sultan of Delhi, was an expert in the game and died as the result of a fall sustained when playing polo at Lahore. The great Akbarr used to play polo at night with balls of burning naphtha that emitted a great glow. It also spread into South India.

THELLOO

This is played in the open fields with the fingers. The principle is more or less the same as in marble-playing; but the methods adopted are somewhat different.

Among the indoor-games, there are Thayam, Ottai-Rettai, Pallonguli, Village-Chess, Pandy, Kolattam. The last two are more especially for girls.

Animal Sports

Sports, like hunting, were indulged in by the Zamindars [Landholders] and their retainers were armed with the Kurattu-Kombu [short stick with iron rings] to be thrown at the animals, and also with bows and spears and sometimes with match-locks. They used horses, elephants, and bulls in their hunting expeditions. Strange as it might soun<j, leopards were trained to hunt deer, which these brought alive when caught. Hunting dogs too were impressed into the service of the hunter. They were generally of three breeds: 1. The Poligar dog, 2. The Persian dog, and 3. The Pariah dog. Jackals, deer, hogs, leopards and tigers were usually hunted.

BULL-FIGHT

This is particularly popular in the Madura district being known as Jottikallu in which a fighting bull with a new cloth and a bag of money, tied to its horns as prizes, is let loose in the midst of the competitors, who, individually, without the aid of stick or knife, absolutely unarmed, try to take the prizes, facing the bull manfully. Whoever takes the cloth is considered to be

Digitized by v^ooQle
104

the hero who is rewarded also sometimes with the hand of a maid. The best fights are usually reserved for the Mattu Pon-gal Day.

RAM-FIGHT

There were also ram-fights promoted as an amusement.

COCK-FIGHT

The fighting cocks were usually of two breeds, the country breed and the jungle breed. They fought either armed with double-edged sharp knives fastened to the right leg or without them. The two kinds of fighting were known respectively as Katthyporu and Vattuporu.

The sports and games in the East were not quite neglected in olden days by Indian students paying sole attention to mental culture. Only in recent times did they grow indifferent to them. But to-day, there is a' renaissance. They are taught that all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy, it being pointed out that thus many an educated Indian suffers from the ‘fashionable* disease of diabetes. Indian youths are also to-day taught the importance of team spirit. They realise that games are a solvent of communal differences and many other ills. May they play the game honourably; more than that, may they bring to bear the spirit of sportsmen whether in the game of the field or in the game of life.

Reprinted from “The Madras Mai Sports Supplement.” India.

Olympic Gymnastics in 1936

Every nation will send a team of 8 gymnasts to the Olympic Games, each of whom must perform in 12 events, including 10 on the apparatus and 2 free-hand. The apparatus will consist of the horizontal bar, parallel bars, pommelled horse, long horse and flying rings, and each performer must present one voluntary and one compulsory exercise on each apparatus. Jumping alone will be required on the long horse. Each exercise will be scored and rated by the judges so that the best individual performers may be selected for each event. In addition to this, the winner of all 12 exercises and the national team which has given the best performance will also be adjudged. It is therefore necessary to distinguish between the team and individual competition, which naturally combine to make up the team record for each individual event, and also for the dodecathlon. In calculating the number of points won by each team, only the records of the 6 highest members will be taken into consideration. The performances of the two with the lowest records will, however, be taken into consideration for the individual ratings in each free-hand and apparatus event. No athlete who is not a member of a national team may participate in the individual events. Special entries will not be permitted. The compulsory exercises on the apparatus

Digitized by Google
105

may be performed once from each side of the bar and repeated once. Only the best performance will be considered in the judging. The voluntary exercise may not be repeated and the first performance will be judged. Each member of a national team must perform a different voluntary exercise. Three judges will be assigned to each apparatus, two to be present at each event and a third to relieve the others at regular intervals. The judges will score the events independent of one another. Every exercise may be accredited with from 0 to 10 points and may be scored even in fractions of points. The ratings of the two judges will be averaged for the final score. The compulsory exercises will be judged on the basis of completion, correctness and grace, and the voluntary exercises on elaborateness and grace. Individual gymnasts may score a maximum of 120 points in the 12 exercises, and the team composed of the best 6 gymnasts, a maximum of 720 points.

Apparatus

The apparatus used in the coming gymnastic events will be that prescribed by the Federation Internationale de Gymnasfique. The horizontal bar must be of polished steel, 2.40 metres off the ground, and 28 to 30 millio-metres in diameter. Gymnasts of small stature may be lifted up to it by their trainers. The parallel bars must be 1.60 metres off the ground, 3 to 3.40 metres long, and 42 to 46 centimetres apart. The pommelled horse must be 1.80 metres long, 1.10 metres high, and 35 to 37 centimetres broad, and the grips must be 40 to 42 centimetres apart and extend 12 centimetres above the back of the horse. The long horse has the same dimensions except that it is 1.30 metres high and has no grips. A springboard rising ten centimetres off the ground may be used in connection with it. The compulsory exercises on the rings will not be performed when the rings are in motion. The rings must hang 2.50 metres off the ground, must have an interior diameter of 18 centimetres, and the wood must be 28 millimetres thick. The free-hand exercises will be performed on a wooden platform 8 by 8 metres. Each voluntary exercise shall occupy from one to two minutes.

For each event, two apparatus will be provided: a German gymnastic apparatus complying with the prescribed dimensions, and a “Winter System” apparatus, developed by Winter, the German world champion on the horizontal bar. Each nation will have the privilege, however, of bringing its own apparatus, which naturally must meet with the dimensional requirements. Photographs of the German apparatus may be had from the Organizing Committee for the Xlth Olympic Games in Berlin.

Scene and Schedule

The contests will be held in the Dietrich Eckart Open Ajr Theatre at the Reich Sport Field, which has a seating capacity of 20,000. The apparatus will be set up on the stage of the theatre, and in case of rain will be moved under a roof especially prepared for it.

Digitized by ^ooQle
106

The final schedule for the different days will depend on the number of entries received. The competition will begin on Monday, August 10th, at 8 in the morning, and this day will be given over to the six compulsory exercises and the voluntary exercise on the long horse. Groups of. 7 nations will be formed and they will perform in succession. The groups will be selected by lot. If over 14 nations compete, three groups will be formed. On the forenoon of Tuesday, August llth, the remaining 5 voluntary exercises will be performed, every team participating except the 4 who achieved the highest scores on the previous day. For these events, groups of 5 nations will be formed, also by lot, and they will perform in succession. On the afternoon of the same day the 4 best teams from the previous day will finish their 5 voluntary exercises. Wednesday will be given over to the Ladies’ contests.

Outdoor Hobbies

By Barbara Ellen Joy and Virginia Anderton Lee

How fortunate isrfhe individual who, in this age of increasing numbers of “unoccupied” hours, can find greater enjoyment in the out-of-doors for having some special objectives to follow there. We all know people who have outdoor hobbies and we realize how much pleasure and entertainment they derive from them. We may have laughed good naturedly over the fondness of some friend for bird-glasses, specimen box, or camera; but, with the laughter was there not just a trace of envy?

Not all people care for active outdoor sports. Some are not equal to them p. ysically; for others the playing fields, the equipment, or the necessary numbers may be an impossibility. But, every man, woman, and child in any situation or location can find and pursue with benefit and pleasure some simple outdoor hobby. Many of them call neither for expensive equipment nor for special training.

Birds. Now, birds are always with us wherever we may be. Even if we live in cities, there are public parks where the lives of the permanent residents may be watched day by day, and the spring and fall migrations may be observed as they occur. An inexpensive bird-book and a check list is the only equipment necessary, although bird glasses are a help, of course. And for those who live permanently in one location, bird feeding stations and bird banding become very absorbing enterprsies. Bird clubs may be formed where members meet and share their discoveries and their thrills with one another. One such club on the Maine coast meets regularly the whole year round for the purpose of hearing the reports of the special studies of its members. For, bird lore extends into so many ramifications—coloring, flight,

Digitized by Google
107

songs, nests, eating habits, and mating—that any one of them may be made a study by itself which can be of never ending interest and delight.

Astronomy. The amateur astronomer is another lucky person. How many of us know the simplest of heavenly facts—how to locate the North Star? Only the exceptional one among us can locate as many as six constellations or knows the legends of the ancients or of our own American Indians concerning the stars. Night after night the “infinite meadows” are disclosed to us, and yet, we make no effort to learn about what we can see there. And it is so easy—with a chart of the heavens, a flashlight, and an old blanket—to lie restfully upon the earth and become acquainted with the skies, and we know that even a little such acquaintance can be the source of great satisfaction and pleasure.

Photography. The use of the camera—either movie or still— makes possible the combination of several hobbies so that each will inevitably augment one’s satisfaction in the other. The studies of plant and animal life lend themselves particularly to the science and art of amateur photography. There are not many more thrilling experiences than hunting with a camera. Likewise, active sports and expeditions such as mountain climbing and canoe trips may be enjoyed again and again if the camera has gone along.

Collections. May we never, any of us, become so adult and mature that the collecting tendency is entirely lost. We find, on looking back, that our own collections have included butterflies, flowers, ferns, shells and fossils. Each siege gave pleasure and satisfaction and only our itinerant lives have prevented their continuous pursuit. Even so, pockets often become stuffed along the way.

The drying and mounting of ferns on large sheets of thin cardboard is especially intriguing. Interested friends in all parts of the country will enjoy being asked to cooperate by sending specimens to add to what one’s own locality will at the time afford.

Flowers, grasses, weeds, mosses, and lichens are legion in number and variety. It is best to press them and mount them on separate sheets or, when possible, to make blue prints and so preserve them for posterity. These are really uncommon hobbies and may well put one on an intellectual plane quite above the average, if one is looking for this added distinction.

Insects and butterflies make beautiful collections. Mounting frames and cyanide jars can be home made, as well as mounting boxes. The exercise entailed in the chase is equal any day to that of a good game of hockey, and one learns and cultivates technique and skill in avoiding pitfalls and hazards.

Likewise, shells—both salt and fresh water varieties—are well worth the expenditure of time and effort. They are easy to handle and to keep, and their colorings and shapes are often exquisite. Fossils, minerals, and “rocks,” on the other hand, re-
108

quire a great deal of room and plenty of work, but their acquisition takes one to interesting places and the study of them is fascinating. The hunting of Indian relics, tools, arrowheads, pottery, and the like always exerts a strong appeal. A tear still falls at the thought of the flour sack full of beautiful pieces of petrified wood from which the Indians had chipped their arrow heads, laboriously hauled uphill and down dale through Cottonwood Seeps on the southern edge of the Painted Desert and then left forever the next morning behind a hotel desk. Some day we are going back for more, and we hope somehow to be given the strength to drag back one of the dozens of old metates which positively strew the ground in those parts.

We must not forget to mention, among possible hobbies, tree study. Its many phases—leaves, fruit, flowers, bark, terminal buds, and so forth—may each become a study in itself. But, just to know one evergreen from another, and a sycamore from an elm is something of a satisfaction. And here again is the possibility of a combination of hobbies, for sketching and photograph both lend interest to tree study, as do the senses of touch, taste, and smell.

The pursuit of any outdoor hobby can stimulate our instincts to create and to conserve, for many useful and decorative articles can be made from materials which nature affords us in great abundance and which we can gather easily on our tramps and camping trips and prepare later at our leisure. Pine needles for baskets, sweet fern and balsam tips for pillows, baybecries for candles, and knots for candlesticks are only a few of the possibilities. Winter walks should produce dried weeds and flower stalks which make handsome winter bouquets—milkweed, for example, teazle, golden-rod, and alder cones. A few dozen pine cones in bags of bright colored tarleton, bunches of faggots tied with a bright ribbon, or several small logs with pretty bark will make an unusual and welcome gift from “the great open spaces” for the friend with a city fireplace.

Among these and the infinite number of other outdoor hobbies, there are surely some which may bring to those who have not yet known them the keen pleasure and great joy that they have already brought to many, both old and young. Before it is too late, find some outdoor hobby to ride. And, having found it, let it further encourage you to real living through comradeship with people and with books. Our public libraries will help you. The United States Government and the separate states, through their many departmental publications; various groups, organizations, schools, and colleges, through their pamphlets and bulletins, all offer you useful, practical, and interesting material for the occupation of your solitary hours. Then, seek out those people from whom you can learn. “Be big enough to be forever teachable; if you are teachable, you will always be finding teachers. A person who knows much about any particular thing is usually
loe

enthusiastic about it, enthusiastic enough to kindle your enthusiasm. . . .That sort of comradeship may give you the substance of real living in place of what you shall find to have been the thin-blooded and shallow-thoughted complacency you have been satisfied with before.” [1]

1 William Russell Bowie in On Being Alive.

GOOD WORK

Phi Delta Pi Camp For Underprivileged Children.—The

Phi Delta Pi National Physical Education fraternity for Women, conducted its second camp from July 4 to July 15, at Camp Whitcomb, Merton, Wisconsin. They were hostesses to 47 children sent by the Milwaukee Childrens’ Service.

Last year, Phi Delta Pi were hostesses to 24 Milwaukee children at Camp Brosious, Elkhart Lake, Wisconsin. This camp was so successful that it was decided to try it again this year. This camp offered more than last year. At the National Convention in Richfield Springs, the delegates voted to continue the camp and to send other councils to a Health Camp conducted by Physicians.

All the councilors, donated their services. They were Martha Gable, Philadelphia, Pa., Camp Director, Hazel C. Orr, Cincinnati, Ohio, Business Manager, Lillian Watt, Philadelphia, Pa., Gertrude Harold, Gertrude Dickman, Jean Evans, Esther Bergman, Chicago, and Helen Watton, nurse, Philadelphia, Pa.

Most of the children were undernourished; some were pre-tubercular and some were suffering from glandular trouble. They were examined by the Milwaukee Dispensary. They were again examined by our own staff and each case history sent by the dispensary was carefully studied by all the councellors. Each child was advised about the type of activity in which she was able to participate.

The Fraternity has made arrangements to do some follow-up work not only to see the results of the summer camp, but to help improve the camp for next year.

DR. CARL ZIEGLER

' Dr. Carl Ziegler died at his home in Cincinnati on September 19, following a brief illness. He was 76 years of age, having been born in Germany in 1859. He came to America at the age of seven and settled with his parents at Clinton, Massachusetts. Being interested in physical activites and having been active in

Digitized by CaOOQle
110

Tumverein work, he decided to enter the Normal College of the Tumerbund, then located in Milwaukee. He graduated in 1886 and later taught at St. Joseph, Missouri, and Cleveland, Ohio.

Following the enactment of the first physical education law by the general assembly of Ohio, Carl Ziegler was called to Cincinnati to become “Superintendent of Physical Culture” in September 1892. He had four assistants who traveled from school to school giving lessons of ten minutes’ duration. From this beginning grew a well defined program of diversified activities, improved facilities and a large staff. Carl Ziegler received his M. D. degree early in his career in Cincinnati and surrounded himself with a capable staff of teachers, four of whom were likewise Doctors of Medicine. He retired from active duty in 1930 after 38 years of service.

Thus is removed another pioneer of physical education from the ranks. Sometimes the present generation of teachers loses sight of the fact that they owe much to such men as Carl Ziegler who fought the battles for recognition, for sufficient time, for proper facilities and for good teacher preparation.

In concluding his annual report in 1917, Dr. Ziegler said, “Altogether the twenty-five years of service give me considerable satisfaction. When on my first day in Cincinnati, Mr. Bettman, who had offered in the meeting of the Board of Education the resolution creating the department, asked me if I expected to accomplish anything with the plans then outlined, I answered, ‘Not very much, but this is only the entering wedge.’ Since then, the wedge has been driven in some, but much more driving remains to be done. However, I still have in mind one of my copy book maxims: ‘Patience and Perseverance will remove mountains.’ Perhaps these qualities will also remove other obstacles and bring us nearer the goal:	A	strong,	healthy,	vigorous	and well-dis-

ciplined body for every boy and girl that attends our schools.”

HANS GOETZ

During recent months the physical education profession has lost two more of its most earnest and efficient workers.

Hans Goetz passed away on August 20. This jovial character will be remembered best for his work as a teacher in Milwaukee High School and for his excellent service in connection with Mid-West conventions. During his career he had been a teacher in Philadelphia, Reading, and San Francisco before going to Milwaukee.

Digitized by boogie
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 42	October 1935	No.	429

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN. EDITORIAL COMMITTEE

Emil Rath, Director of Physical and Health Education, Indianapolis Public Schools Carl L. Schrader, State Director of Physical Education, Massachusetts

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Association,

New York

Grover W. Mueller, Director of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

ASSOCIATE EDITORS Chas. J. Prohaska, M. D., State Director of Health and Physical Education, Connecticut Robert Nohr, Associate Professor of Physical Education, University of Wisconsin Clara L. Hester, Assistant to the Dean and Instructor in Physical Education, Indianapolis Normal

College

Emmett A. Rice, Assistant Principal of Shortridge High School in Indianapolis; Lecturer on History of Physical Education at Indianapolis Normal College Martha A. Gable, Teacher, Olney High School, Philadelphia, Sports Official and Coach Martin H. Trieb, Assistant Supervisor of Physical Education, Los Angeles Public Schools Lelia V. Gunther, Teacher of Physical Education, Cleveland High School, St. Louis, Mo.

Rudolph Hofmeister, M. D., practicing physician and surgeon in St. Louis; formerly a teacher of

physical education

Howard L. Conrad, Supervisor of Physical and Health Education, Philadelphia Public Schools

Hazel C. Orr, Teacher, Woodward High School, Cincinnati

Fred E. Foertsch, Assistant Director, Philadelphia Public Schools

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editori 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Editorial

Several months ago we invited a number of leaders in the field of physical education to contribute articles on pupil rating in physical education. Only one article was submitted, the other recipients of our invitation admitting frankly that they had never given the subject sufficient intensive thought to be able to present anything worth while. All agreed with us that the matter should be given careful consideration by the profession in order that some good plans might eventually be evolved.

We are indebted to Dr. Lapp and to Mr. Newman for the suggested plan which appears in this issue of Mind and Body. Many readers may not agree with this plan. The writers themselves have indicated that they will probably revise it in the light of further experience with it. Somewhere in this land there must be teachers and administrators who would like to send in constructive criticisms or to offer other plans. If they will do so, they will be helpful to hundreds of other teachers. We will be glad to hear from them.

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
, 112

A Grading System for High School Physical Education

V. W. Lapp, Ph. D. and H. R. Newman, M. A., Westport High School,

Kansas City, Mo.

A few years ago a friend, when asked about the method of grading used in his physical education classes, gave an answer which was specific and concise. He graded his classes on [1] attendance, [2] attitudes, [3] cooperation in group contests, [4] clean uniforms, and [5] showers. This method sounded effective, but on closer questioning it was evident that there was no real method for the awarding of grades behind the verbal front he had erected.

The problem of giving grades is one which must be met by every person directly connected with the teaching of physical education. Last fall the writers found themselves facing the above problem. At the end of the first five weeks period, three hundred and fifty boys would bring in cards for home reports. What was to be done? After much consideration, it was decided that the purpose of physical education [broadly stated] was to teach these boys certain facts in a good social atmosphere, and to develop their muscular systems so as to promote organic vigor and physical growth.

With this statement in mind, the following system was devised and put into actual practice. [1] The factual material was to be tested by means of a written examination. [2] The muscular development and neuromuscular skills were to be shown by actual performance tests. [3] The social atmosphere created by the pupil was to be measured by some method of sportsmanship or cooperation rating. Each of the three items was to count equally in the final grade. However, all was not as “rosy" as it would appear. How could sportsmanship be measured?

Several attempts were made in this direction, the last of which involved less of the teacher’s time and seemed to be more adequate than the first efforts. In the last attempt, the squad leaders of each class were called into the teacher's office and given squad sheets on which they were told to record a grade for each boy in their squad. This grade was to reflect the individual student’s promptness in “falling in” at start of a class, quietness in line, obedience to the squad leader’s directions, willingness to try the activities of the program, and effort to cooperate with the other squad members. A student who tried the activities and who showed a willingness to cooperate was to be given a higher grade than one who made little effort to cooperate. The squad lists were then handed to the instructor without being shown to any other squad leader. The instructor then called for a general discussion. Each leader was asked questions about boys in other squads, and if too great a discrepancy was found in any

Digitized by LjOOQle
113

recorded judgment, adjustments were made by the instructor to conform with the majority opinion. Occasionally a squad leader would refuse to grade a boy because of personal prejudice. In that case the other leaders’ opinions were accepted.

The written examinations covered material presented in class such as care of feet, bathing, rules of games etc. These examinations were of an objective type consisting of completion and true-false tests. [See five sample tests.] These tests are not presented as models but merely as guides of the material which can be covered in this manner.

The performance tests and the method of grading were posted on the bulletin board early in each five weeks period, and the boys were given opportunity to practice the skills.

The following items were used as performance tests:

1.	Running events [see scoring table one]

The individuals were timed for one, two, and three laps

on our 75 yard indoor circular track.

2.	Arm strength [see scoring table two]

Three events were used and scored as follows:

[1]	Dips on the end of the parallel bars. Each pupil was told to dip without a swing so that his upper arm was parallel to the floor. The number of dips was counted and recorded by the squad leader.

[2]	Push ups on floor from front leaning rest position. These were counted by the squad leader, and each boy touched his chest to the floor and pushed up to complete arm extension.

[3]	Chins on horizontal bar.

These were counted by the squad leader, and the student was required to touch his chin to the bar and let down to complete arm extension.

3.	Basketball shooting [see scoring table three]

[1]	Free throws.

The shots were made in two groups of five each, with the pupil being allowed two practice shots before each group of five. The number of goals made was counted by squad leaders.

[2]	Set-up shots.

These were scored by the squad leaders, and each student was given two set-up shots from the right, left, and from the center. The pupil being tested dribbled the ball in, picked it up and made his shot. He was given one point if he did not take steps [travel], one point if he took off on the correct foot and shot with the correct hand, and one point if he made the basket Thus, each perfect shot gave three points, and the six

Digitized by kjOOQle
p* I

114

shots if made correctly gave a score of 18 points. The center set-up had to be scored differently, and one point was given if the student did not travel, one point if the basket was made off the backboard, or two points if the basket was made without the ball touching the backboard.

4.	Tumbling [see scoring table three]

This test was scored by allowing two points if the boy did the stunt correctly in his first attempt, and one point if the stunt was completed with poor form. On the second attempt, which was given in case of failure during the first trial, only one point was given. The test items given here are taken from page 94 of the “Tentative Course of Study in Physical Education for Junior and Senior High Schools, Curriculum Bulletin Number Twelve, Kansas City Public Schools, Kansas City Missouri.”

Test Items:

1

2

3

4

5

6 7' 8 9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16 17 is;

Forward roll hands on mat Forward roll arms horizontal Forward roll hands on shins Dive for height [over one man]

Dive for distance [6 feet]

Backward roll from stand Backward roll lying on back Backward roll arms horizontal Head stand [five counts Hand stand [five counts Hand stand against wall Hand stand into forward roll Handspring over roll of mats Hand spring head oh top of roll of mats Forearm balance [plain]

Forward round-off with run Hand stand and walk [five steps]

Upstart

All the tests were given letter grades on the following Z score basis:

+ Z Score	Letter Grade	Approximate Per Cent under Normal Curve
+3.00 to +1.66	E	5
+1.65 to + .67	S	20
+ .66 to - .66	M	50
- .67 to - 1.65	I	20
- 1.66 to - 3.00	F	5

The final grade for five weeks would be computed as follows. John Smith earned +2.00 in sportsmanship, -1.34 in the written test and +2.95 in performance. The algebraic sum of these scores is +3.61 and the average is +1.21 which gives a grade of “S” for the five weeks period.

Digitized by ooQle

j
115

Now in examining the individual grades of John Smith, we find that he earned an “E” in sportsmanship, [see score limits] an “I” in the written test, and an “E” in performance. Without the Z score these figures could not be averaged definitely and called an “S” although most reasonable teachers would give an “S” in a like situation.

Grading from standard scores proves fairly satisfactory, provided the test average falls somewhere near the center of the frequency distribution. It would be a great deal easier to derive the grades directly from the frequency chart instead of computing the standard deviation and then working out the Z scores. This would do away with much calculating for the teacher not statistically trained, and would avoid the embarrassment of having the best pupil in class still in the “S” group on the basis of standard scores.

The method outlined above is by no means perfect, and next year we hope to make modifications so that showers and clean suits can be given consideration. However, we feel that the method has proved successful in our school, and that similar methods can be adapted to any system in any locality.

Sample Test One

T.	F. 1. At the command of attention the hands are clasped behind the back.

T. F. 2. A fungicide is the cause of athlete’s foot.

T. F. 3. In volleyball, the serving side is the only side which may make a score.

T. F. 4. We encourage the students to sing in the locker room and to chew gum during the class period.

T. F. 5. The score of a regular game of volleyball is usually considered to be twenty-one points.

T. F. 6. The plant causing athlete’s foot grows best in a warm, dry place.

T. F. 7. Many people with flat feet never suffer any discomfort. T. F. 8. In batting, the bat should be swung parallel to the ground.

T. F. 9. In fielding a ground ball, the fielder should .keep his eyes on the ball.

T. F. 10. The longitudinal arch is broken down more often than is the other arch.	!

T. F. 11. In bandaging a sprained ankle, one should draw the tape tight and wrap it entirely about the foot so as to lend as much support as is possible.

T. F. 12. The server can usually control the volley ball better in the under hand serve if he uses his open hand in driving the ball over the net.

T. F. 13. In marching, one is supposed to halt in three counts. T. F. 14. Our H. T. H. footbath solution contains sodium hypo-clorite.

T. F. 15. As one swings the bat forward, he steps directly toward the pitcher.

Digitized by v^ooQle
116

T. F. 16. In counting off, the head and eyes are turned to the left and brought to the front as the student gives his number.

T. F. 17. In volleyball any net ball is good if it goes over the net.

T. F. 18. When "at ease,” one can only execute the commands of “front” or “rest.”

T. F. 19. One of the fundamentals of batting consists of holding the trade mark up.

T. F. 20. In serving volleyball by the under hand method, the server tosses the ball with the left hand and bats it with his right hand.

T. F. 21. Photographer's developer is often used as a cure for athlete’s foot.

T. F. 22. “Squads left,” is a six count movement.

T. F. 23. Most sprained ankles result from turning the foot inward.

T. F. 24. In batting, a right handed batter grips the end of the bat in his right hand.

T. F. 25. Thirty-nine per cent of flat feet need corrective measures.

Sample Test Three

1.	The top of a volleyball net is ———• feet above the floor.

2.	A volley ball may be hit only ——— times before it is returned over the net.

3.	A normal foot contains a longitudinal and a-------arch.

4.	It has been found that the plant causing athlete’s foot reproduces every-----------hours.

5.	At the command, “forward march,” one steps out with the 	 foot.

6.	At the command, “at ease,” the left foot moves sideward 10

or 12 inches and the hands-------------------------—.

7. In using a towel for drying one should begin------------- ■.

8. A treatment for athlete’s foot should contain something to ---------and something to-----------.

9.	Our footbath solution H. T. H. contains--------.

10.	Boiling for-------minutes will kill the plant causing athlete’s

foot.

11. -------- is the term used for stepping away from a pitched ball.

12. ------and---------are the teams playing in the World Series.

13. Athlete’s foot is often found in these three places ------—,

-------, and-------.

14.	“Rest,” is the same as, “at ease,” except that the pupil is

allowed to --------.

15.	The “Dean brothers” play for ---------.

16.	In cold weather one should ---------- take a shower following

exercise.

17.	The squad leader is number---------man in front rank.

18.	The--------carry the waste materials from the area of con-

gestion in a sprain.

Digitized by Google
117

19.	In case of a sprained ankle the foot and ankle should be immersed immediately in-------------- water.

20.	In volleyball the ball must be served from what point?

21.	Playing the volley ball to a teammate near the net is called

22.	A net man who jumps high and hits the volley ball sharply

toward the floor on the opponent’s side is said to----— the

ball.

23.	A volleyball team must shift in-------order.

24.	Can athlete’s foot be cured by using the footbath each day?—

25.	One may have--------	•	•	as	a result of borrowing anoth-

er’s gym shoes.

Sample Test Three

1.	The grade for this five weeks is to be determined by-------,

-------, and-------, each counting one third.

2.	———• alcohol causes atrophy of the optic nerves.

3. -—• lighting is best for reading or close eye work.

4. --------------------------,	—-,-,	———, ----,	and--—, consti-

tute one third of this five week’s grade.

5.	The lens of the eye is made to ——•—• —•—•— in order to adjust the focus.

6.	The image on the retina is-------------.

7.	Insurance figures show that it pays to have frequent ------

8.	The regular score in a volleyball game is---------points.

9.	Alcohol is a colorless liquid which can be burned by the

body at the rate of---------—	• per hour.

10.	Alcohol is absorbed from the stomach and intestines directly

into the-------------—.

11.	Color blindness is transmitted from a color-blind father tp his

12.	Crossed eyes may be the result of paralysis or of ■ ■ - eye muscles.

13.	In volleyball only the--------side can score.

14.	Two ■ ■ - of----------per hour furnish the same amount of

energy as alcohol if taken internally.

15.	Alcohol always--------the central nervous system.

16.	------per cent of the heavy drinkers who contract pneumo-

nia die.

17.	The eye wink is a protective---------.

18.	Bright sunlight reflected from snow often causes---------.

19.	-------------when used in the eyes of new bom babies will

prevent blindness due to gonorrhea.

20.	Any net ball except the serve is —-—— in volleyball.

21.	Class ;------won the inter-class volleyball tournament.

22.	When one is caught chewing gum in class, the punishment

is--------.

23.	The squad loader’s rating of the boys of his squad in sportsmanship, is to count---------------of their sportsmanship grade.

Digitized by ooQle
118

24.	In order to get a reliable estimate of one’s present health, his

----------------must	be	known.

25.	In volleyball one is not allowed to------the net.

Sample Test Four

T. F. 1. In the two handed chest shot, the ball is held firmly in the palms of both hands.

T. F. 2. In the bounce “carry pass” or the “forward English pass,” the ball should strike the floor close to the pass receiver.

T. F. 3. While dribbling, the ball should come up into the hand and be pushed away with a wrist movement, which almost eliminates the sound of a slap.

T. F. 4. When making a reverse pivot, the dribble should be started with the hand nearest the guard.

T. F. 5. The performance test for this five weeks is one free throwing.

T. F. 6. While catching a pass, the eyes should be searching about the court to locate a teammate in a favorable position, either to receive a pass or to shoot.

T. F. 7. In the grape vine or three man fast break, the man passing the ball goes behind the man to whom he passes the ball.

T. F. 8. In the offensive plays practiced in class, the center always breaks to the same side as that of the pass from ^ the guard to the forward.

T. F.’' 9. In the set up shot coming in from the right, one should take off on the left foot and slam the ball against the backboard about fourteen inches above the right edge of the basket.

T. F. 10. In most bounce passes, the ball is picked up in both hands and then passed, as this increases the accuracy of the pass.

T. F. 11. A common fault in dribbling is that most dribblers do not bounce the ball high enough, and as a result they have to place their body in a flexed position with their weight over the balls of their feet.

T. F. 12. For an average of -.70 the grade would be an F.

T. F. 13. When a defensive player moves to the right or left, he starts out with the foot on the side to which he intends to go.

T. F. 14. In the bounce pass in which the ball strikes the floor with reverse English, or with the top of the ball spinning toward the passer, the ball comes up slowly.

T. F. 15. In the offense used in class, the forward on the passing guard’s side breaks toward the basket, and then receives the ball from the guard and shoots.

T. F. 16. In the free throw test, two baskets out of ten trials will give an I grade.

T. F. 17. A pivot in which the leading foot moves forward is known as a forward pivot.

Digitized by v^ooQle
119

T. F. 18. In the set up shot coming in from the left, one should take off on nis left foot and shoot the ball with his left hand.

T. F. 19. In the offense studied in class, the forward should cut in close to the center so as to block off his own guard.

T. F. 20. A defensive man should always keep between his opponent and the basket.

T. F. 21, The forwards and center should never turn their backs to the ball when«£oing down the floor after their guards have recovered the ball,

T. F. 22. A defensive player in advancing toward his opponent, should step forward with first one foot and then the other.

T. F. 23. In the defensive position, the feet axe together and the weight is carried over the balls of the feet.

T. F. 24. A guard who crowds his opponent is very easy to get out of position.

T. F. 25. In making a push pass, one should use the belt as the target.

Sample Test Five

T. F. 1. The teacher is endeavoring to encourage gum chewing in all gymnasium classes.

T. F. 2. The bottom of the backboard is placed nine feet above the playing surface.

T. F. 3. The backboard in high school games has a maximum size of 6 feet 6 inches, by 4 feet 3 inches.

T. F. 4. If a player of team “A” touches a ball just before it goes out of bounds, team “B” is given the ball out of bounds.

T. F. 5. The maximum size of a basketball court is recommended to be 94 by 50 feet.

T. F. 6. In a plain forearm balance, the head does not touch the mat.

T. F. 7. A basketball game must be started with five players on each team and the game is awarded to the opposing team if at anytime less than five legal players remain in the game.

T. F. 8. When inflated to the regular playing pressure, an official basketball has a circumference of 29 to 30 inches.

T. F. 9. The term “upstart” and the term “kip” refer to the same exercise on the mats.

T. F. 10. The free throw circle has a total radius of 12 feet.

T. F. 11. Our playing court is 84 feet long and 37 feet wide.

T. F. 12. The solution in our foot bath tank is used to cure athlete’s foot.

T. F. 13. When a man is fouled in the act of shooting, he should be allowed two free throws.

T. F. 14. The mats should be taken from their wall hangers and slid lightly along the floor to the place designated for tumbling.

Digitized by v^ooQle
T. F. 15.

T. F. T. F. T. F. T. F.

T. F. T. F.

T. F.

T. F.

T. F. T. F.

Time

8.8

8.9

9.0

9.1

9.2

9.3

9.4

9.5

9.6

9.7

9.8

9.9 10.0

10.1

10.2

10.3

10.4

10.5

120

Our foot bath contains a solution of sodium hypo-chlorate.

16.	The center circle has a diameter of 48 inches.

17.	A player may reenter a game twice.

18.	An official basket ball may weigh 21 ounces.

19.	The basket is attached to the backboard in such a manner that the ring is six inches from the backboard surface.

20.	The basket has a diameter of 18 inches.

21.	The regulation pressure for a basket ball is 14 pounds per square inch.

22.	Mats for tumbling should be laid so that the side where the knots are tied is always down.

23.	In the head stand, the head and two hands should be in the same straight line so as to make a triangle on the mat.

24.	The free throw line is 15 feet from the Mid of the basketball court.

25.	The grade for this five weeks is to be the average of three parts, [1] a sportsmanship grade, [2] a performance test, and [3] a written examination.

SCORING TABLE I

		Running Events					
One Lap		Two Laps			Three Laps		
Z Score	Grade	Time Z Score		Grade Time Z Score Grade			
+3.00		17..5	+2..95		26	+3..27	
+2.83		18..0	+ 2..57	E	27	+ 2.86	E
+2.67		18..5	+ 2.19		28	+2.46	
+2.50		19.0	+ 1.81		29	+ 2.06	
+ 2.33	E	19.5	+ 1.43		30	+ 1.66	
+2.16		20.0	+ 1.05	S	31.	+ 1.26	S
+2.00		20.5	+ .67		32	+ .85	
+ 1.83		21.0	+ .29		33	+ .45	M
+ 1.66		21.5	- .09	M	34	+ .05	
+ 1.50		22.0	- .47		35	- .36	
+ 1.33		22.5	- .84		36	- .76	I
+ 1.16	S	23.0	-1.22	I	37	-1.16	
+ 1.00		23.5	-1.60		38	-1.57	
+ .83		24.0	-1.90		39	-1.97	
+ .66		24.5	-2.28	F	40	-2.37	F
+ .50		25.0	-2.66		41	-2.78	
+ .33 + .16		25.5	-3.04		42	-3.18	

Digitized by

Google
121

10.6	-0.00 M

10.7	- .16

10.8	- .33

10.9	- .50

11.0 - .66

11.1	- .83

11.2	-1.00

11.3	-1.16 I

11.4	-1.33

11.5	-1.50

11.6	-1.67

11.7	-1.83

11.8	-2.00

11.9	-2.16

12.0	-2.33 F

12.1	-2.50

12.2	-2.66

12.3	-2.83

12.4	-3.00

SCORING TABLE II Arm Strength

	Chins		Push Ups				Dips	
No.	Z Score	Grade	No.	Z Score	Grade No.		Z Score	Grade
18	+3..0		28	+3..09		24	+ 3..19	
17	+ 2„7		27	+ 2„92		23	+ 2„83	
16	+ 2„4	E	26	+2„75		22	+ 2„65	
15	+2..2		25	+2„58		21	+ 2„46	
14	+ 1..9		24	+ 2..41	E	20	+ 2„28	E
13	+ 1..6		23	+2-38		19	+ 2..09	
12	+ 1..3		22	+2..07		18	+ 1..90	
11	+ 1..1	S	21	+ 1-9		17	+ 1..72	
10	+ ..8		20	+ 1..73		16	+ 1..54	
9	+ ..5		19	+ 1..57		15	+ 1..35	
8	+ ..3		18	+ 1..39		14	+ 1-17	S
7	-0	M	17	+ 1..22		13	+ ..98	
6	- -3		16	+ 1..05	S	12	+ „80	
5	- „5		15	+ ..88		11	+ -61	
4	- -8		14	+ -71		10	+ „43	
3	-1..1		13	+ -54		9	+ -24	
2	-1_3	I	12	+ ..37		8	+ -06	M
1	-1..6		11	+ ..20		7	- „13	
0	-1..9	F	10	+ -03		6	- „32	

Digitized by Google


	122			
9	- ..14	M	5	- ..50
8	- ..31		4	- ..69
7	- ..48		3	- ..87
6	- _64		2	-1..06
5	- ..81		1	-1..24
4	- ..98			
3	-1..15	I		
2	-1..32			
1	-1..49			
0	-1..66	F		

SCORING TABLE III Basketball Shooting

Tumbling	Free	Throws	Set	Up	Shots

Test	Z	Score	Grade	No.	Z Score	Grade	No.	Z Score	Grade
Score				Made			Made		
36	+ 1	.63	E	10	+ 3..72		18	+ 2.39	
35	+ 1	.44		9	+ 3..17	E	17	+ 2..03	E
34	+ 1	.26		8	+ 2..61		16	+ 1..67	.
33	+ 1.	.07	S	7	+ 2..06		15	+ 1..31	S
32	+ .	.98		6	+ 1..50	S	14	+ .95	
31	+ .	.70		5	+ ..94		13	+ ..58	
30	+ .	.51		4	+ ..39	M	12	+ ..22	M
29	+ .	.32		3	- ..17 .		11	- .14	
28	+ .	.13	M	2	- ..72	I	10	- ..50	
27	- .	.05		i	-1..27		9	-.. 86	
26	_	.24		0	-1..83	F	8	-1..22	I
25	— .	.43					7	-1..58	
24	- .	.61					6	-1..94	
23	—	.81					5	-2..30	F
22	-	.99					4	-2..67	
21	-1.	.18	I				3	-3..03	

20	-1..36

19	-1..55

18	-1..74

Digitized by t^ooQle
123

17	-1..92

16	—2..11

15	—2..29	F

14	-2..4S

13	-2..67

12	-2..88

11	-3..00

ACHIEVEMENT STANDARDS ON GYMNASIUM APPARATUS FOR GIRLS AND BOYS

Grover W. Mueller

In this issue we present the eleventh set of a series of exercises on gymnasium apparatus for girls and boys. The exercises were arranged for pupils in junior high schools and have been used successfully in a large number of schools.

The material is organized on the basis of difficulty in such a way as to provide three levels of achievement standards for girls and for boys in each of the six school grades of junior high schools in connection with each of four pieces of apparatus. Three exercises of approximately equal difficulty have been set up at each level for each piece of apparatus. Accordingly, the reader will find three exercises representing a “fair" achievement standard, three representing a ‘•good" standard, and three representing an “excellent” standard for each piece of apparatus.

The exercises can be used not only as content material in the usual way, but also as a basis for classifying pupils into “ability groups” and as a basis for rating pupil achievement in connection with this phase of physical education. It is recommended that the exercises be posted in a prominent place where they may be seen by all pupils in order that they may judge the quality of their own achievement and thereby note their progress. This creates and maintains interest, and furthermore, it serves as a strong stimulus to effort and improvement.

Pupils in high ability groups in any class who have achieved the “excellent” standards of their school grade should be permitted and encouraged to practice the exercises of higher school grades.

It is hardly necessary to state that use of these exercises need not be restricted to junior high schools. They may be used by any group of older pupils whose experience with apparatus has been limited. They most certainly may be used by Senior high school pupils who have not achieved them in the junior high school: this applies with greatest force to the “excellent” standards. In communities where gymnasium apparatus is not introduced in grades below the senior high school, these exercises will be suitable with little modification in the senior high school.

Subsequent issues of Mind and Body will carry additional sets of exercises of the series until achievement standards for all six grades of the junior high school in connection with at least four different pieces of apparatus have been presented.

The following suggested achievement standards are exercises on the Side Forse for school grades 9A and 9B (“A” represents the first semester of the grade; "B” represents the second semester.]

Digitized by L.ooQle
Digitized by

Fair

Good

Excellent

o

o



SIDE HORSE—GIRLS—GRADE 9A

Run, grasp pommels and squat vault forward with straightening legs forward.

Run, grasp pommels and jump to a squat stand in the saddle. Straighten legs forward and dismount with half turn left. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and flank vault to the left. Repeat right.

Run, grasp pommels and jump with legswing mount to a riding seat on the neck, facing the saddle. Grasp pommel, swing legs forward and ' backward and scissors left or right. With the pommel grasped in rear of the body swing the legs forward and rear-vault dismount right sideward. Repeat opposite on croup.

Run, grasp pommels and jump to a squat'stand left in saddle with the right leg raised sideward [right foot touching croup]. Straighten left leg forward and at the same time lower right leg forward under right hand to a side seat rearways in the saddle. Swing legs forward [Horizontal] and dismount forward. Repeat opposite.

Run grasp pommels and rear vault mount left [legs swing over croup] to a riding seat in saddle facing croup. Grasp pommel in front of body, swing legs forward and backward with front vault dismount left sideward to a stand. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and jump with legswing left forward to a side riding seat in saddle. Legswing right forward under right hand to a side seat. [Legs closed]. Double legswing forward to a horizontal position or above and dismount forward. Repeat opposite.

Run [in line with the croup], squat-straddle vault right over croup, with support on pommel and croup [left leg squats, right leg sideward]. Repeat opposite over neck.

Grasp left pommel with right hand in reverse grip. Jump with 1-2 turn left and with legswing right over saddle [left hand may assist on neck] into a side riding seat in saddle [both hands now on pommels]. Legswing right forward with three quarter tummount left to a riding seat on the croup facing the saddle. Grasp pommel, swing legs forward and backward with front-vault dismount right sideward. Repeat opposite.
g

eg'

N

CD

Q.

cr

b

o



Slut. NUKSt----UIK

Fair	Run,	grasp	pommels	and

flank vault to the left.

Repeat right.

Run, grasp pommels and jump with a leg-swing mount to a riding seat on the croup, facing the

Good saddle. Grasp pommel, swing legs backward to a cross support-lying position frontways. Scissors left or right. Place the hands on the end of the horse, raise hips with straddle-vault dismount forward.

Excellent Jump to a support with leg-swing right forward under right hand to a side riding seat in the saddle. Legswing left forward with a three-quarter tummount right forward to a riding seat on the croup, facing the saddle. [The left arm remains free during the turn.] Grasp pommel, swing legs forward and backward, and scissors left or right. Place the hands on the end of horse, raise hips with straddle-vault dismount forward.

UKAUt 315

Run, grasp pommels and jump with squatting left forward to a side riding seat in saddle. Legswing right forward to a support rearways. Swung legs forward to a horizontal position and dismount forward to a stand. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and squat-straddle vault left over the saddle Repeat opposite.

Grasp left pommel with right hand in reverse grip. Jump with 1-2 turn left to a support rearways on the take-off side of the horse. Legswing left backward under left hand to a side riding seat. Half turn left change grip on pommels. Three quarter tummount left to a riding seat on neck. Grasp both pommels and dismount to a halfdeep squat stand on take-off board and immediately squat vault forward over the saddle. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and squat vault forward with straightening legs forward with 1-2 turn left to a stand facing the saddle. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels, and squat forward to a support rearways. Legsvring left backward [over left pommel] with a quarter-turn left to a cross riding seat facing the neck. Grasp pommel in front, swing legs forward and backward and front vault dismount right sideward.

Run, grasp pommels and rear vault left over the saddle [the legs pass over the croup]. Repeat right.
Fair

Run, grasp pommels, jump with legsw. mount to riding seat on neck, face saddle. Sw. legs forw, backw; scissors 1. or r. Place hands on end of horse, raise hips, straddle vault dism’t. forw. Repeat croup.

Good

Run [in line with croup], support on pommel and croup, jump with legsw. 1. forw. [over saddle] under 1. hand to side riding seat on croup. 3-4 tummount 1. forw. to riding seat in saddle, face croup. Grasp pommel in front of body, sw. legs forw., backw. and scissors 1. or r. Grasp pommel in front of body, sw. legs forw. and backw. with front vault dism't. r. sidew. Repeat opp.

Excellent

Grasp pommels, jump with legsw. 1. forw. under 1. hand and follow with legsw. r. over croup [around r. arm] to balance support. Legsw. r. backw. over saddle with 1-4 turn r. shifting 1. hand to support frontways on croup. Legsw. l.forw. over croup with 1-4 turn r. to riding seat on croup, face saddle. Grip on pommel, sw. legs backw. and scissors, 1. or r. Support on end of horse, sw. legs backw. and front vault dism’t. 1. sidew. Repeat opp.

SIDE HORSE—BOYS—GRADE 9A

Run, grasp pommels and legswing left forward to a side riding seat in saddle. Squat left backward and dismount to a half-deep squat stand and immediately flank vault right over saddle to a stand. Repeat opposite.

Grasp left pommel with right hand in reverse grip. Jump with half turn left to a support rearways on pommels. Three-quarter tummount left [with legswing right over croup] to a riding seat on croup facing the saddle. Grasp pommel, swing legs forward and backward with scissors left or right. Grasp pommel in rear. Swing legs foreupward and rearvault dismount left sideward. Repeat opposite.

Jump to a support on pommels and feint right forward [right leg passing over croup around right arm]. A horizontal legswing right backward and to the left leading over the saddle to a rear vault right over the saddle [1-4 turn of body to left] to a cross stand in line with the saddle.

Run, grasp pommels and squat straddle vault left over saddle [right leg in squat position, left leg sideward]. Repeat right.

Run [in line with croup] support on pommel and croup and squat vault forward with straightening legs forward and half turn left to a stand facing the croup.

Run, grasp pommel and jump with flank vault swing left forward under left hand to a support rearways. Legswing right backward under right hand, legswing left backward under left hand to a support frontways. With legswing right backward and pivoting around left leg 3-4 tummount right backward to a riding seat on the neck facing the end of the horse. Forward scissors. Grasp pommels, dismount to a momentary squat-stand [halfdeep] in front of the saddle [on the take-off board] and squat vault with straightening legs forward to a stand.
D

cq"

CD

Q.

cr

o

o

a

Fair

Grasp pommels, jump with legsw. r. forw. under r. hand to side riding seat in saddle. 3-4 tumm't. r..to riding seat on croup, face saddle. Grasp both pommels, jump to a half-deep squat-stand face saddle on the approach side and squat vault forw. Repeat opp.

Good

Grasp pommel with r. hand in reverse grip. Jump with half turn 1. and legsw. r. over saddle to side riding seat in saddle. Tumm’t. 1. to riding seat on croup, face saddle. Swing legs forw., backw. and scissors 1. or r. Support on end of horse, sw. legs backw. and front vault dism't. 1. sidew. Repeat opp.

Excellent

Grasp pommels, r. hand in reverse grip. Jump with 3-4 turn 1. [pivot around r. arm and leg] and legsw.

1.	backw. over croup to riding seat on croup, face end of horse. Support on end, sw. legs backw. and scissors 1. or r. to a riding seat, face saddle. Grasp far pommel with 1. hand and raise to support on pommels with 1-4 turn r., holding the r. leg in a feint position over croup. Horizontal legsw. r. backw. and to the 1. leading over saddle to a rear vault r. over saddle to a cross stand in line with saddle.

SIDE HORSE—BOYS—GRADE 9B

Run, grasp pommels and squat-straddle vault left [squat nght, straddle leftj with 1-4 turn right to a stand.

Run, grasp pommels and squat forward to a support rearways. Squat left backward to a side riding seat in saddle. Squat right backward with dismounting to a half-deep squat stand on the take off side. Flank vault to the right over saddle.

Jump to a support with legswing left forward under left hand and follow with a legswing right forward over croup to a balance support over right hand. Horizontal legswing right backward following with a quarter turn right shifting the support of the left hand to the croup. Then continuing the legswing right over the croup [under left hand] with rear vault right over croup to a cross stand on the take-off side of the horse-opposite the croup. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and squat forw. to a support rearways. 3-4 turn

1.	with legsw. r. forw. over neck to a riding seat facing saddle. Grasp pommel, swing legs forw. and backw. and scissors 1. or r. Place hands on end of horse, swing legs forw. and backw. and dism’t. r. sidew. Repeat opposite.

Run, grasp pommels and rear vault

1.	over saddle [legs pass over croup]. Repeat right.

Jump to support on pommels with legsw. 1. forw. under 1. hand followed by legsw. r. over croup to bal. support [legs straddling r. arm]. Legsw. r. backw. with 1-4 turn r. supporting 1. on croup continuing circling of the r. leg to a rear vault mount to a riding seat on croup, face end of horse [the right leg swings under 1. hand to get into riding seat]. Support on end, swing legs backw. and scissors 1. or r. Grasp pommels on take-off side of horse following with legsw. 1. forw. under 1. hand to side riding seat in saddle. Legsw. r. forw. with 3-4 turn dism’t. 1. with r. leg continuing complete circle 1. over neck. R. hand supports on neck after r. leg has passed over neck.] Finish in a cross stand with r. side toward horse.
128

Group and Couple Dances for H. S. Girls

Fred E. Foertsch

This is the fourth installment of a series of group and couple dances designed for high school girls. The first installment appeared in the March 1934 issue. These dances are not necessarily restricted to the grade indicated. They may be used at any junior cr senior high school level and may also be found suitable for adult classes.

The primary purpose is to provide vigorous muscular activity by means of a series of interesting combinations of dance steps and figures in various rhythms. The floor patterns and the combinations of steps are similar to those found in folk dances. The dances are short and the combinations are not difficult. This adds much to the recreational values of the dances.

Flexibility with respect to floor space, bize of classes, and musical compositions have also been considered in arranging the dances. Large classes may readily be broken up into several circles in order to conserve floor space. In the open formations the range of movement in any given direction has been limited for the same reason. In connection with the music it will be noted that any standard composition may be used, provided the rhythm is appropriate. This permits the choice of sheet music, piano-player rolls, or victrola records.

The following dances have been arranged for Grade 7B [“B" representing the second semester of the grade].

Subsequent issues of Mind and Body will carry additional graded dance material.

SHAMROCK REEL

[A Couple Dance]

Music: “Kerry Dance” in Rhythms and Dances for Elementary Schools by Dorothy LaSalle. “Larry O’Gaff” in “Old Familiar Dances.” Compiled by Geo. C. Gott [Oliver Ditson Co.] Pub. by Theo. Presser Co.

Formation: Four couples in each set arranged in two front lines facing each other.

Diagram

OXOX Each line is composed of two couples. The lines are about four to six steps distance apart.

XOXO

Note: Skip steps may be substituted for running steps throughout the dance.

Part I

Neighbors’ hands are joined shoulder high.

1.	Four small running steps forward [The two lines

move toward each other].................... 2	Measures

2.	Four small running steps backward returning to

original places..........................   2	Measures

3.	Two step-swing-hops in place............... 2	Measures

Digitized by v^ooQle
129

4.	Release neighbors’ hands and execute four turning

steps in place with a 4-4 turn [individuals turn separately]	................................   2	Measures

5.	Repeat No.	1 to No. 4 ...................... 8	Measures

Total ....................................  16	Measures

PART II

1.	All form a circle with neighbors’ hands joined and

execute 8 gallop steps left sideward [circle moves clockwise] .................................... 4	Measures

2.	Repeat No.	1 to the right..................... 4	Measures

3.	Four skip steps	forward [toward the center] .  2	Measures

4.	Four skip steps	backward .......     2	Measures

5.	Two step-swing-hops in place, the circle breaking

up into two lines as in the beginning [The mem-bos on the ends must execute the swing-hops backward]	 ................................  2	Measures

6.	Release neighbors’ hands and execute four running

steps in place with a 4-4 turn [individuals turn separately]	...............................    2	Measures

Total ..................................... 16	Measures

PART III

1.	Eight running steps forward. The two lines move toward each other and as they meet release neighbors' hands and grasp right hand of the member directly opposite [in the opposite line]. Continue with a half millwheel right, release right hands and

return to original place facing inward again ...4	Measures

2.	Two step-swing hops in place ..................2	Measures

3.	Four running steps in place with a 4-4 turn .. 2	Measures

4.	Repeat No. 1 to No. 3, but grasp left hand of person in opposite line executing a half millwheel left;

and return to original place .................. 8	Measures

Total ..................................... 16	Measures

PART IV

Repeat Part II .......................Total	 16	Measures

Repeat the whole dance several times.

ESTELLA

[A Spanish Couple Dance]

Music: “Spanish Dance,” in “Old Familiar Dances,” p. 44 Arranged and compiled by Geo. C. Gott. [Oliver Ditson Co.] Published by Theo. Presser Co.

Formation: Column of 16 to 20 front couples arranged in circle formation. The column is divided into sets, each set containing two couples [four individuals]. The couples in

Digitized by v^ooQle
130

each set are facing each other and are designated as Couple No. 1 and Couple No. 2. Couples No. 1 have their left sides toward the center of the circle and couples No. 2 have their right sides to the center. The couples in each set are about four steps distance apart.

v	PART	I

All begin with the outer foot.

Inner hands are joined shoulder high.

1.	Step-swing-hop forward with the outer foot [the step-swing-hop is executed to one measure of 3-4 time]—1-3, and waltz-balance step forward with

the inner foot—4-6 .............................   2	Measures

NOTE: The inner arms are swung forward and partners are in a back-to-back position with the balance step. The couples in each set have moved toward each other.

2.	Remain in a back-to-back position and beginning with the outer foot execute two Spanish drawclosing steps sideward with the outer foot returning

to original places.............................. 2 Measures

3.	Couples facing each other. Beginning with the outer foot two step-swing - hops forward, and two Spanish draw-closing steps sideward continuing in the same direction. [During these steps the couples in each set pass and exchange places. The members of Couple No. 1 release hands and pass around the outside of couple No. 2 and then regrasp hands on the opposite side. Couple No. 2

passes between the members of couple No. 1.] . 4	Measures

4. Repeat No. 1, No. 2, and No. 3, returning to

original sides ..............................  8	Measures

Total.....................................16	Measures

PART II

The members in each set grasp neighbors’ hands to form a small circle.

All begin left.

1.	Face left [hands remaining joined] and waltz-bal-

ance step left forward and right backward, followed by two step-swing-hops forward [the circle moving counter-clockwise] ................................ 4	Measures

2.	Repeat No. 1 twice [each couple by this time

should be in its original place] .................. 8	Measures

3.	All face the center hands remaining joined. Waltz-

balance step left forward toward the center of the circle swinging the arms toward the center then waltz-balance step backward swinging the arms downward ........................................   2	Measures

Digitized by Google
131

NOTE: At this point in the music measures 15 and 16 of Part 11 should be omitted and measures 17 and 18 substituted in their stead.

All execute three running steps forward—1-3, stamp with closing foot—4, pause—5-6. [During these three running steps couple No. 2 passes under the arms of couple No. 1 while the members of couple No. 1 pass around the outside of Couple No. 2. Each couple has advanced to meet a new couple thus forming new sets].................... 2	Measures

Total ..............................

Repeat the dance from the beginning.

.16 Measures

♦MOONLIGHT MAZURKA

[A Couple Dance]

Music: "Pretty Moonlight” Mazurka—M. Greenwald—Published by Theo. Presser Co.

Formation: Column of front couples, inner hands joined.

PART I

All begin with the outer foot

1.	Face partner and execute three glides in the direction of the- leading couple [the arms with the

joined hands are raised sideward]—1-3 ........... 1	Measure

2.	Swing the inner arms [hands joined] downward and forward with 1-2 turn [partners are now back-to-back] and execute three glides in the direction of

the leading couple [the inner foot leading]—4-6 . 1	Measure

3.	Face front [inner hands joined] and execute three steps forward [beginning with the,outer foot] 1-3, and point forward with the inner foot—4, pause—

.5-6 ............................................ 2	Measures

4.	Face partner and grasp opposite hands [with arms raised in the direction of the leading couple].

Then repeat all of the above steps under No. 1,

No. 2, and No. 3, but beginning with the opposite foot and moving in the direction of the last

couple........................................... 4	Measures

Total ....................................... 8	Measures

PART II

1.	Partners facing each other with arms raised sideward and hands joined.

1.	Three mazurka hops in the direction of the leading couple ...................................... 3	Measures

2.	Three running steps partners exchanging sides [turn clockwise, arms remaining sideward with

hands joined] ..................................   1	Measure

Digitized by CjOOQle
132

3.	Repeat three mazurka hops in the direction of the

leading couple..................................... 3	Measures

4.	Three running steps as in No. 2 returning to

original sides .................................... 1	Measure

Total .....................................   8	Measures

Repeat the whole dance several times ♦Certain preparatory exercises for the mazurka hop may be necessary before proceeding with this dance. In this case a brief review of some of the PREPARATORY SEQUENCES in mazurka time given under Grade 7A will be appropriate here.

♦IMPUDENCE SCHOTTISCHE

[A Couple Dance]

Music: “Impudence Schottische” [Arr. by Rolby King] Alan Macey [Oliver Ditson Co.J published by Theo. Presser Co. “Queen of the Night”—Pierre Renard, Op. 2, No. 3 Pub. by Theo. Presser Co.

Formation: Column of front couples in circle formation.

Inner hands are joined.

Sixteen to twenty couples.

PART I

All begin left.

1.	Schottische step left and right forward [the column

moves counterclockwise in a circle] .......... 2 Measures

2.	Partners release inner hands, face each other and

grasp right hands shoulder high and execute four step-swing-hops, completing a full mill-wheel right [During the last step^swing-hop partners assume positions as at the beginning.... ............ 2 Measures

3. Repeat No. 1 and No. 2'.......................4 Measures

Total .........................’............ 8	Measures

Note: Near the finish of the mill-wheel at the close of Part I all form a single circle in front line formation facing the center. Neighbors’ hands are grasped.

PART II

All begin left.

1.	Four schotrische steps left and right sideward .4	Measures

2.	Two step-swing-hops forward and four small

running steps forward [toward the center]......  2	Measures

3.	Two step-swing-hops backward and four small running steps backward [the line breaking up into

a column of front couples as in the beginning].. 2 Measures

Total .....................................  8	Measures

Repeat the whole dance several times.

♦Certain preparatory exercises for the schottische step may be

Digitized by UaOOQle
133

necessary before proceeding with this dance. In this case a brief review of some of the PREPARATORY SEQUENCES in schot-tische time given under Grade 7A will be appropriate here.

♦FOUR-LEAF CLOVER POLKA

[Group Dance]

Music: “The Four-leaf Clover”—Polka—H. Engelmann, Op. 262, No. 2. Published by Theo. Presser Co.

“Princess Maude Polka”—Wallerstein. In “Old Familiar Dances” p. 15. Arranged & compiled by Geo. C. Gott. [Oliver Ditson Co.] Publ. Theo. Presser Co.

Formation: Line of front couples [single line] forming a circle with neighbors’ hands joined.

The circle may contain from 8 to 15 couples

PART I

Face left [hands remain joined] to a flank line, right shoulders to the center of the circle All begin moving in a circle clockwise

1. Two polka-hops forward [left & right]  ........... 2	Measures

2. Four skip-steps forward...........!............... 2	Measures

3.	Two polka-hops forward ........................   2	Measures

4.	Four skip-steps, the first two forward and the last two in place with 1-2 turn right [the hands remain joined and the left shoulders are toward the

center] ...v....................................   2	Measures

5.	Repeat No. 1 to No. 4 moving counter-clockwise in

a circle and with the last two skip-steps all face	=

the center .....................................   8	Measures

Total	'................................    16	Measures

PART II

1.	Beginning left all execute 4 small skip-steps forward toward the center ............................ 2	Measures

2.	Glide-balance-hop left toward the center swinging

the arms forward and upward toward the center .. 1 Measure

3.	Step-swing-hop right backward with a return armswing forward and downward, hands remaining

joined ......................................... 1	Measure

4.	Four skip-steps backward. With the last skip-step the hands are released and partners face each

other........................................... 2	Measures

5.	Partners now take armlock right and execute a millwheel right [4-4 turn] with 4 skip-steps, at the end of which the armlock is released, all again

facing the center of the circle with hands joined .... 2 Measures

Digitized by Google
134

8 Measures

6.	Repeat No. 1 to No. 5

Total .......................................16	Measures

Repeat the whole dance several times.

♦Certain preparatory exercises for the polka-hop may be necessary before proceeding with this dance. In this case a brief review of some of the PREPARATORY SEQUENCES in polka time given under Grade 7A will be appropriate here.

Health Education

Howard L. Conrad

Measuring Results in Health Education

The use of measuring devices in health education is a matter of interest and importance to all teachers of the subject. With this in mind we have prepared a series of three articles dealing with tests and other measurements. We hope that these articles will prove to be useful to teachers and administrators. The first article will serve primarily as an introduction.

I.	What to measure: Brueckner and Melby* have a few pertinent words to say about this topic, namely, “It would appear to be obvious that the problems of measurement in health education are very complex. Such measurement is not merely concerned with a few simple skills or knowledges but with attitudes, ideals, habits, and more or less complex conduct patterns. Paper	and	pencil tests can never	become adequate. They	will always have	to be	supplemented

by various types of observational procedure.” Even granting this statement to be the truth does not obviate the necessity' of relatively frequent checkings of health knowledge and skills through the medium of pencil and paper. To be sure, the formal examination of the discussion or ‘essay’ type is deservedly rare; but the time-saving objective test, constructed by the teacher to cover	the health essentials of	a unit of	instruction, is

being used more	and	more frequently.	As far as	many of the

health practices are concerned, direct observation will always remain the most accurate method.

Methods of measuring results may be classified as follows:

a.	For measuring knowledge, skills, and attitudes [?]—

objective written tests, oral tests

b.	For measuring habits and practices—inspection and observation by teacher, self-checking by questionnaires and charts, inspection and observation by pupils.

In questioning the validity of written objective tests in health attitudes, it is common experience that the children give the ‘attitude’ answer that is expected by the teacher, which in many

Digitized by AaOOQle
135

instances does not reflect the governing motive of the child’s conduct. Concerning this doubt Brueckner and Melby** say, “It is the feeling of some that there is little correlation between what one believes or prefers and one’s conduct. If this is true, tests of attitude can probably be given little attention as measures of conduct.” It might even be said that such tests give little indication of probable conduct in untried situations.

Possibly the greatest limitation discerned in the objective tests for measuring achievement in health knowledge and skills is that “there is no assurance that one is attaining the measure of anything except knowledge.—So far as is known, there is almost no relation between the knowledge of desirable conduct and the practice of desirable conduct. Such tests are of value if one believes that the knowledge of health practices is of value.”* Most of such tests also carry questions on elementary essentials of related physiology and anatomy.

•Brueckner, L. J., and Melby, E. 0.—“Diagnostic and Remedial Teaching”— Houghton Mifflin Co., 1931, Chap. XIV p. 680-681-684.

Coming—The Household Aquarium Test for Ovulation

In the Journal of the American Medical Association for December 29, 1934, Kantner, tauer and Klawans, of Chicago, describe a test for hormones in pregnancy urine which utilizes the fact that the female of the fish known as the Japanese bitterling possesses an externally visible oviduct. Only certain bitterlings, however, respond to the active principle, so that a process of selection is essential. Such a standardized fish will show a lengthening of its ovipositor, persistent for about twenty days, when four cc. of pregnancy urine is put into a quart of water containing the fish. About 80 per cent of positives are positive at the end of the first twenty-four hours. The oviduct will lengthen, when the response is positive, from its normal 2 mm. to 15 or 25 mm. The test seems to have about the same clinical value as the Friedman and the Aschheim-Zondek, but possesses many obvious advantages over the latter.

The authors make a number of research suggestions, among them determinations of estrogenic substance at periods of physiologic variation, such as occur at various stages in the menstrual cycle. This may well lead to exact means of fixing fertile and sterile periods in given cases, taking the place of or supplementing and checking calendar calculations after the Ogino-Knaus fashion.

In view of the progress now being made in this field, we may hope yet to see a household aquarium which will enable any woman to identify her fertile and sterile periods with a fair degree of biologic accuracy.

Crude and harmful contraception of the prevailing type seems doomed. We should like nothing better than to see all that wretched junk so employed on the way to a permanent scrapheap.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
136

This is not a mere matter of wishful thinking on our part, fs„. the bitterling test is obviously a sure portent of the near future^ even if the test itself will not figure directly in the new method* of hormone detection. Science, not fantasy and prejudice, is determining these things.	‘

Changing Concepts of Nutrition—James S. McLestefi.-'’ Birmingham, Ala. [J. A. M. A. Aug. 11, 1934], points out that until a decade ago nutrition was the stepchild of medicine. Ttr lack of interest was due in no small measure to the semi-charlatanism and wild faddism which have always flourished in this field., and which have led many conservative physicians to give it % wide berth. Now a reversal of feeling has taken place. The-great discoveries of recent years, have excited the interest oft every one, laymen and physicians alike, and today medical men'", are keenly alive to the vastly important part which nutrition^ plays in the prevention and treatment of disease; a radical changer in the conception of the nutritive needs of the sick person has come about. This change is explained by the order in which, in the evolution of modern medicine, the basic sciences have de- * veloped, cellular pathology coming early and present-day physiology late. Formerly, in planning the patient’s food, physicians thought solely in terms of the local pathologic condition, of the harm they might do some impaired organ; now they think chiefly in terms of general physiology, of the good they can do the pa-' tient as a whole. This transition is signally characteristic of mod-. ern thought in nutrition. These changing concepts of nutrition are not the result of vacillation’'or of aif uncertain drift of opin-' ion. They express the broader understanding of man’s nutritive needs that has come with the discoveries of recent years and represent the well considered application of knowledge gained, little by little, from painstaking research and careful clinical observation. This is the way of progress—long Island Med.

IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT

A School Health Conference particularly designed to meet the needs of school education administrators is to be held for two days in Philadelphia, Friday and Saturday, Novermber 1st and 2nd, under the auspices of the Department of School Health and-" Physical Education of the National Education Association. The't Topics will largely be on school health procedures for educational* and health administrators. Principals, superintendents, school doc-., tors, nurses, hygienists and physical education people will be interested in this conference. Outstanding educational administra-.. tors and school health experts are on the program. The topics selected will meet the needs of superintendents and principals. There will be round table and discussion meetings. The meeting, will be in the nature of a conference. For further details, write* Mr. A. W. Thompson, Board of Education, Grand Rapids, Michigan. The official headquarters is the Board of Education Building, Philadelphia, Pa.

Digitized by LjOOQle