MIND AND BODY

23.	NOVEMBER,	1916	No.	253

Published By THE TURNER PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Turner Publishing Company, New Ulm, Minnesota

Entered at the Postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota as second class mail matter.

j ORIGINAL ARTIOLCS AND RB PRINTS J

O	'—    .........    *	 —	—	......... —     ' — O

WORK ACCOMPLISHED DURING APPARATUS EXERCISES.

By Prof. R. du Bois-Reymond, Berlin. From “Koerper and Geist.” (Translation by Geo. Altmann, St. Normal School, Minot, N. D.)

■

\	It is known that gymnastics react strongly, not only upon the muscular

, System, but that they also benefit the organs of circulation, respiration and di-tion. The method whereby this influence is exerted is far from clear. The sjelief that when more work is done, and consequently greater combustion caused, the power of assimilation is raised, holds in general, but it does not explain the exceptional cases one may observe. For instance, it is a daily occurrence to notice that when a person runs up several flights of stairs his heart action and breathing are stimulated. Considerable work has been done in this running, I energy for which has been supplied through increased combustion. This is an illuminating explanation which on the whole holds good, which however cannot be considered broad enough or satisfactory. If, as is possible with the facilities for investigation now available, •one determines the amount of increasing material used, and of nourishment carried to the tissues through the increasing heart action and respiration, he finds that there is a great surplus of nourishment. It can further be shown that by vigorous use of certain small muscle

Digitized by LjOOQie
290

groups, which could not materially increase assimilation, heart action and respiration are increased even from the start. Instead of having a demonstrable lack of nourishment that could lead to an increased demand, experiments show that the possibility of such want is anticipated by the body to such an extent that in moderate exercise the muscles proportionately use a smaller percentage of the nutriment furnished to them than when at rest. In spite of this, the amount of nourishment supplied remains higher both during, and for a time after the exercises, even though a surplus, rather than a lack, cf nourishment is present. It is, therefore, not the increase in demand alone which is responsible for the increase in the supply of nourishment; there must be other factors at work which as yet are unknown.

The above statement refers to the supply of oxygen for the body, which is the first requirement of the working muscles, and which furnishes the first task of the respiration and circulation. We are here concerned with phenomena that are comparatively simple, and we have therefore been able to come to definite conclusions. The actual assimilation by the body offers greater problems to the investigator. The body can forego eating for a much longer time than breathing, as it has a reserve supply of nourishment in store. The use of this reserve material as an internal change is much harder to observe and determine than the interchange between the body and the surrounding atmosphere which takes place with respiration. Without doubt there is an increase in assimilation with increased consumption. Experience has shown that here also the consumption tends to be more than compensated for, so that in continued physical exercise the body becomes stronger and heavier rather than weaker and lighter. One may therefore conclude that it is not the increase in fuel consumption through which muscular activity benefits the body, but rather that there are also other ways in which muscular activity increases metabolism. As this has been demonstrated in regard to breathing it may be accepted for bodily nourishment, although there is no positive proof.

One may appreciate how muscular activity reacts upon bodily nutrition if he but look up the results of medical research. It is known that muscular activity beneficially affects organic action, especially digestion and assimilation. This may suffice if we are concerned only in a general way with the effects of bodily movement. If, however, we are concerned with the value of various exercises, the question of how these exercises react must be more definitely answered. To be sure, the belief is that the beneficial effect of exercise depends upon the increased consumption of nutriment. Assording to this idea, the value of an exercise would be independent of the form of execution, as it would be concerned only with the amount of work done. It would be unnecessary in such case to limit oneself to the usual forms of exercise, but rather one could choose exercises in their most pleasant forms, and have at least equal results. One could then, if he choose, take into consideration certain optional objects, as for instance form of execution and convenience. In short, one might come to decide to abolish the conventional exercises which have been developed through years of experience and to substitute artistic “systems of gymnastics” in their place.

In order to reveal the basic faults of such ideas, one must first of all decide the question, whether the increased consumption of nutriment plays an essential part in the favorable effect of an exercise. The first steps in answering this question must consist of determining how great the consumption of nutriment is during such exercise. Accurate figures in such matters are available only

Digitized by v^ooQle
291

for walking with, or without, a load on level or on inclined roadways. The amount of this consumption during running, jumping, throwing or during specific individual apparatus exercises no one is able to give. The same method by which one may determine the amount of food assimilated during walking may be used in a similar experiment when performing an exercise on apparatus. This, in short, is what Peltret and du Bois-Reyrpond have done for at least two exercises, the “hip pull up” and the “kipp”, in order to determine the amount of fuel consumption.

Such an investigation must be based on many conclusions already reached through experiment. It also calls into use so many scientific aids that it is difficult to explain more than, the principal features. Nevertheless this will be attempted in order that the reader may get a conception thereof, upon which the conclusions to which the discussion will lead rest. The following short precepts may be of assistance.

1.	To raise a body, to set it in motion or to check its motion requires work that can be measured by units of work. As this unit, the kilogram-meter may be used, this unit representing the work required to raise a kilogram one meter.

2.	If work is employed to set a body in motion, and the motion is suddenly checked, as when a hammer strikes an anvil, the work is changed to heat. The greater the force of the blow the greater will be the heat produced. If we investigate under proper conditions we find that there is a definite relation between the units of work and of heat. The unit of measure for heat is the calorie, which is the amount of heat required to raise one liter of water from 0 degree to 1 degree C. A calorie corresponds to 425 kilogram-meters of work. The converse is also true. If heat is converted into work, as in a steam engine we get 425 kilogram-meters for each calorie which is converted into work.

3.	Heat is likewise generated or used during chemical action, a definite number of units being generated or used independent of the mariner in which the chemical change is caused. When a piece of wood is burned in an oven into carbon dioxide, water and ashes, there is neither jnore nor less heat produced than when the same chemical changes take place through decay of the wood in the ground. We can also determine similarly the number of heat units resulting from combustion in the body if we but know the original and final conditions. If work is produced instead of heat during this action, it occurs as indicated above; 1 calorie equals 425 kilogram-meters. Of the various substances of which the body is composed, fat gives the greatest amount of heat through decomposition, it being changed to carbon dioxide and water through the addition of a definite quantity of oxygen. In order to oxidize a certain quantity of fat, a definite quantity of oxygen is required. Therefore by the addition of a definite quantity of oxygen the same amount of heat will be produced as through the oxidation of a corresponding amount of fat. The heat units resulting have been shown by experiment to equal five calories for each liter of oxygen consumed.

4.	Oxygen is not found stored up in the body ready for use. When the body needs oxygen it must be taken from the air inhaled. Therefore if one measures the amount of oxygen extracted by the body from the air inhaled he can determine the quantities of heat and work resulting from oxidation in the body, which under ideal conditions equals 5 calories or 2125 kilogram-meters for every liter of oxygen consumed. More than this cannot be produced, there may, however, be less.

In order to determine the oxygen consumption of the body, the nose is closed

Digitized by Google
292

by a clamp, a ventilating tube is placed in the mouth, this tube allowing free inspiration, but closing against expiration, the air exhaled passing out through a rubber tube. This tube is connected with a meter which registers the amount of air exhaled. At the same time a definite portion of the expired air passes out through a branch tube, and is collected in a glass receiver. By combining the results of these observations, one can find the oxygen content of the total amount of air expired, and by subtracting this from the amount of oxygen in the same quantity of the surrounding atmosphere, one can find the difference between the amount of oxygen inhaled and that exhaled, in other words, the oxygen consumed.

The experiment was so arranged that the gymnast stood under a high horizontal bar with all the apparatus necessary for the experiment set up. A clamp was placed upon his nose and a ventilating tube in his mouth. He then breathed for some time under the same conditions as were later present during the experiment. After a balance was reached he steed quietly, and the oxygen consumption for a definite period (10 to 20 minutes) was ascertained. This was determined by reading the meter and by analyzing the air in the receiver, the latter being done some time later. The oxygen consumption during standing having been determined, the same method whs used a second time, except that in the beginning of the period, the gymnast performed three “hip-pull-ups” and “dismounts” in succession. The breathing and oxygen consumption were of course increased. The time method was used for the three “kipps.”

The average for a series of such measurements showed that in 11 minutes the following quantities of air were breathed:	In	standing 95 liters, with three

hip pull ups 140 liters, with three kipps 150 liters. The oxygen consumed was 4 liters, 6.2 liters and 6.7 liters respectively. The consumption was therefore increased 2.2. liters respectively 2.7 liters by the exercises. If one takes for granted that during the work the consumption for the resting position continues unchanged and the work consumption is simply added thereto, one can determine the additional quantity of oxygen used by subtracting the consumption during rest frem that during work. The 4 liters being taken frem 6.2 and 6.7 liters leaves 2.2. or 2.7 liters as the cxygen consumption due to the exercises. One may argue that the entire conditicn of the bedy is different during such work from when at rest, and such subtraction is therefore net permissible. This objection will be met later. For the present the above conclusions will suffice.

The body therefore used for the exercises 2.2 and 2.7 liters of oxygen. In the oxidation of fat the greatest amount of heat is given per liter, namely, 5 calories or 13.5 calories for 2.7 liters. For the work outside the bedy, cnly a part of this was used, but for the present purposes it is not necessary to distinguish between external and total work done, but only to fix definitely the total amount of oxygen used by the body. These figures teach that when a gymnast executes three kipps in succession his metabolism is so increased that he generates 13.5 calories of heat more than when at rest. In order to.determine what this indicates, one must compare this expenditure with ethers of a similar nature. As a result of numerous experiments it is known that a person clothed and at rest in a moderately warm room loses ICO calories per heur to the surrounding atmosphere as a result of metabolism during rest. During walking at the rate of about a kilometer in 15 minutes, this less rises to 40 calories per kilemeter, or 160 calories per hour.

If the gymnast who does three kipps in 11 minutes continues this ,work doing 15 kipps in 55 minutes, he wculd reach a consumption cf 5x13.5 cr 67.5 calories above the 100 calories expended when at rest. If he had walked a distance of 4 kilometers during this time, he would have used 160 calories, about

Digitized by CjOOQle
293

equal to the amount used during 15 kipps. The work done during gymnastic exercises would therefore seem surprisingly small.

In order to strengthen this conclusion the objection mentioned above must be disposed of. One may doubt if it is permissible to subtract the oxygen consumption during rest from that during the exercise to determine the consumption due to the work alone. This can be answered by saying that the result would not be materially changed if we do away with the subtraction entirely and consider the entire oxygen consumption as resulting from the work done. To be sure we can use for such measurements only the consumption that occurs during a limited time. It has been shown in many cases where the consumption was figured for 7.5 minutes that! there was used in all approximately 5 liters of oxygen. If one considers this as due entirely to work, we have 25 calories or 200 calories per hour, not much more than during walking. It may be stated here that the gymnast used in these experiments was by no means a small man, to which cause one might otherwise attribute the small figures obtained. On the contrary, he was a rather heavily built man 176 centimeters in height and 85 kilograms in weight, while the figures for the oxygen consumed during walking are averages.

It is also debatable how far these findings may be applied to conditions in every-day life. It is shown that the amount of work which was performed in these observations is similar to that performed in the average gymnastic period, either in a school or in a Turnverein. If a gymnast is one of a squad of 10 men, and each man takes only 12 seconds to complete his exercise, each individual will have a turn every 2 minutes, or 30 turns in an hour. Against this there were used for the experiment 3 hip pull ups or 3 kipps for a period of 7.5 minutes, or 24 exercises per hour. The difference can be made up when one considers that through the approach to the apparatus and the return therefrom, and the changing of apparatus the time for at least 6 exercises is lost.

It may therefore be asserted that a gymnast does no more physical work during a gymnastic period than he would if he were walking at a comfortable pace during the same period.

To proceed, it seems to me impossible that anyone can still maintain that the consumption of oxygen in the body due to gymnastics and other bodily exercises plays a great part in the promotion of health. One cannot doubt that two or three gymnastic periods per week have much more influence upon the nutrition and growth of the body than the same number of one hour walks have.

In addition, the types of exercise which come up for consideration, those used largely to develop discipline in schools, military organizations, etc., are such that the assertion that these exercises have a material effect upon oxygen consumption can be upheld. To be sure, continued marching day after day, as when on a long tramp, or long bicycle ride, or when on a long run, tend to strengthen the body. It is equally certain that with these forms of exercise an increased oxygen consumption takes place. That they increase strength because they increase breathing is an assertion that surely must be questioned when one considers how well the musculature of a good gymnast is kept in condition, though he is able to exercise only one or two periods a week.

If the sole object of an activity is to bring about the best possible physical condition, there is no doubt but that a life in the open, with long marches, swimming, bicycle riding and varied vigorous activities should be prescribed. If, however, the object is to prepare the youth to meet the stress and strain of modern life in thickly settled localities the value of German apparatus exercises should not be overlooked.

Digitized by v^ooQle
294

SOME MORE MILITARY DRILL RESOLUTIONS.

William A. Stecher, Philadelphia.

We are not the only nation that has a “Defense League.” In the resolutions adopted by the German Wehrausschuss (Defense League) in 1899, and reiterated in 1904 we find the following:

The most important work of the league is to foster all movements that help to lay a strong foundation for the military qualities that a recruit should possess. We therefore demand:

1.	That in physical training the following results be obtained:

(a)	the moral qualities of self control, cheerful subordination,

courage, determination, and a strong will;

(b)	well-developed muscles, skillful co-ordinations, suppleness;

(c)	a strong heart, and resistive lungs;

'	(d) good eyesight.

The endeavors to accomplish (c) are only in their infancy. In all physical education work great stress must be laid upon the acquirement of a sound heart and strong lungs.

2.	The means for pre-military training are gymnastics, tramping tours and games. Supplementary means are swimming, rowing, skating and mountain climbing.

3.	School battalions or school militia are not to be countenanced. Athletic competitions for all, and games with simple honorary prizes are to be furthered*

The records of a meeting of the League held March 12, 1911 show the following additional resolutions:

I	An education of the youth must consider the simultaneous training of the mind, of character, and of the body.

II	Special attention must be paid to such exercises that will most quickly develop the raw recruit into a good soldier. Military drill and shooting are not to be considered in this preparation for military service, but greatest stress must be laid upon measures that will produce sound physical fitness. The military training to be given to the recruit when he enters the army will then meet with less difficulties. Increased defensive power is equal to increased national strength.

III	Pre-military training also must take into consideration types of exercise best adapted to girls.

IV	The public school and the university are the state’s foremost agencies for the training of the young. The activity of the schools must be continued and supplemented by that of voluntary organizations whose aims consist in a furtherance of mental, moral and physical growth along patriotic lines.

But, some readers will ask, have the experiences of the terrible war changed these view points? We have before us the minutes of several meetings held by the technical committee of that vast German organization, the National Association for the Furtherance of Play in Germany. The meetings were held at Bonn on the Rhine, December 28 and 29, 1915. Many phases of the physical life of boys and girls, as well as of adults, were considered. In these troubled times with discussions for and against military drill the following resolutions will be of special interest to us.

In conformity with the ideas expressed by the Defense League, and of

Digitized by v^ooQle
295

those promulgated by the minister of war in the “Guiding Lines,” the following resolutions relative to military training were adopted.

Military Preparation

1.	Participation in pre-military training is obligatory for all males from their entrance into the school until their entrance into the army.

Obligatory physical training for all girls should be made more inclusive than it now is.

2.	Excuses from these exercises shall be allowed only upon the recommendation of the school physician.

3.	The primary aim of the preparatory exercises for military training is the careful cultivation of all bodily powers, and a strengthening of the will-power.

4.	Parallel with the cultivation of self-control the school must insist upon strict obedience, orderliness, promptness, cleanliness, truthfulness, reverence for the state and for the aged, and a strong sense of duty.

5.	The foundation for the preparatory military training are gymnastics and body-building exercises of all sorts including orientation (education in seeing, hearing, interpretation of country-signs - scouting - knowledge and aiding in practical helpfulness, all within the scope of school work. Military drill, and shooting are within the province of army instruction. They are not to be considered by the school.

6.	Facilities for exercise (playgrounds and gymnasiums) lust be provided in sufficient number and size. Sufficient time must be set aside by law to enable the young to participate in the obligatory physical exercises.

7.	The physical training work of schools, army and of voluntary associations must be based upon the same fundamental aims.

Based upon the foregoing the following requirements are essential.

A.	For the Pre-Military Age. (6—18 Years.)

8.	For primary, grammar and high school pupils of both sexes:

(a)	An obligatory weekly play afternoon (with no home work) for bodily exercise in the open air. (The activities should consist of games, track and field work, tramps, scouting, swimming and of winter sports);

(b)	three hours weekly of gymnastics. Classes must not consist of more than 60 pupils;

(c)	a minimum number of obligatory tramps during the school year, either all day or halfday;

(d)	obligatory instruction in swimming;

(e)	team competitions in athletics, and games;

(f)	vacation tramps and games.

9.	For continuation school pupils: obligatory physical training one hour weekly, and a weekly obligatory play afternoon in the open air.

10.	For pupils in manual training schools:

(a)	three hours weekly of physical training;

(b)	a weekly obligatory play afternoon in the open air;

(c)	a sufficient number of tramps.

B. For the Military Age (18 Years, Until Entrance Into the Army.)

11.	For young men:

Digitized by v^ooQle
296

(a)	Military preparation by means of exercises prescribed by the military authorities;

(b)	encouragement to participation in the activities of gymnastic societies, and of play and sport association;

(c)	special training courses for leaders, and for teachers.

12. For the Universities:

(a)	Numerous facilities for participation in gymnastics, play, rowing and swimming.

(b)	Lecture courses covering every phase of physical education.

After disposing of this problem the committee took up other questions and

crystallized the sentiments.

For such persons as have an erroneous idea of the scope of German gymnastics the following resolutions will be of interest. They are the result of the discussions on the athletic problems of girls.

1.	It was resolved to divide the girls into three age-groups, i. e. 11 to 13, 14—16, 17—18 years. Dr. F. A. Schmidt, the noted physiologist, who is a member of the committee, was asked to make public the reasons for the division.

2.	The athletic events that were selected, and the age-groups in which the events were to be used are:

High jump and Broad jump. .Groups 1, 2, 3

Hop, step and jump...............Groups	2,	3

50 meter run.....................Groups	1, 2,	3

80 meter run.....................Groups	1, 2,	3

100 meter run....................Groups	2,	3

Low hurdles .....................Groups	2,	3

Baseball for throw...............Groups	1, 2,	3

Basket ball far throw........... Groups	1, 2,	3

Hurl ball far throw..............Groups	2,	3

Javelin far throw................Groups	3

Shot put (5 lb)..................Groups	3

3.	In competitions three events always will form a group.

4.	A sub-committee of 5 men was appointed to submit a scheme of points for each event.

(Editor’s Note:	Surely	this	is	an	encouragement for those who refuse to lose their balance in

the mad rush for “preparedness” with its utter lack of a constructive program.)

HYGIENIC VALUE OF PHYSICAL RECREATION.

Emil Rath, Indianapolis, Ind.

Recreation, according to Webster, means forming anew, a refreshing of the strength and spirits after toil, and has as synonyms, “amusement”, “diversion” “sport” and “pastime”. The forms of activities which may thus be pursued for the purpose of recreation are so manifold that I have chosen to confine myself to an explanation of the health value of the physical pastimes. These in themselves are rather diverse, including under the term “physical education” the various activities performed in the gymnasium, furthermore, dancing, track and field activities, plays and games from the simpler types to the highly organized ones like baseball and football, hiking and swimming, etc., etc. These are used by the physical educator for recreative and educational purposes.

There are, furthermore, such physical pastimes as fishing, camping, gardening, and such organizations as the Boy Scouts and the Camp Fire Girls whose

Digitized by Google
297

programs involve considerable bodily activity, which are also within the scope of this paper since they are important means to obtain recreation.

When speaking of the need of recreation we indirectly imply a lack of freshness, a loss of strength, the presence of deteriorated faculties and disintegrated tissues which require being formed anew — a condition which is commonly termed fatigue. Hence, the principal object of recreation in order to attain its purpose must be to relieve fatigue. This ameliorating and relieving aim should, however, be complemented by a prophylactic one whose end is the increase of resistance to fatigue and withal to disease by strengthening the body. Thus we will consider the health benefits of recreation from two points of view; viz. 1) relieving fatigue, and 2) increasing resistance to fatigue.

Relieving fatigue. Before proceeding in the discussion of the relief of fatigue it is best first to consider briefly its nature. What do we understand by fatigue? Dr. Offner in his excellent monogram on Mental Fatigue speaks of two forms of fatigue - “of bodily fatigue as fatigue for bodily work, and of mental fatigue as fatigue for mental work”, according to the side of our psychophysical organism whose efficiency for work has been reduced. And according to the nature of the work by which we fatigue our organism, either for mental or physical work, he distinguishes between a fatigue by bodily work and a fatigue by mental work.

Dr. Schmidt (Unser Koerper) in considering fatigue produced by bodily work makes a distinction between that in which the greater part of the musculature is affected which he calls general fatigue, and that in which small muscle groups and those immediately contiguous are involved which he calls local fatigue.

We may similarly distinguish between general and local brain fatigue, for persons who have become tired thinking about a proposition are relieved if they direct their attention to another mental subject. They may indeed relieve a feeling of dullness produced by mental exertion if an entirely different mental activity like that of a game of chess is indulged in. (Mosso, fatigue) Here we have a case of mental recreation by means of a mental diversion. These and similar results are not in the scope of this paper.

We will need to bear these distinctions in mind for we will find that fatigue by mental work and local muscular fatigue, the two most prevalent forms, are best relieved by physical recreation.

The symptoms of fatigue brought on by either mental or bodily work are somewhat analogous. This is particularly true if it is extreme and reaches the stage of exhaustion. There is a disinclination for further work of any' kind. The task in hand progresses slower and is accompanied by more errors in the case of mental work and by decreased accuracy in the case of physical work. There is thus a decline in the quantitative and qualitative aspects. There is a lessened sensitivity to external stimuli with a consequential decrease in reaction which also brings about diminished discriminative powers. Mental exhaustion may, however, produce an increase in sensitivity to impressions to a stage of hyperesthesia. (Offner.)

There is furthermore a feeling of indifference, weariness, languor and dullness with a craving for rest and sleep which under such conditions are, no doubt, the best forms of recreation.

In local fatigue the symptoms are neither so varied nor so intense. When local groups of muscles are fatigued there is a noticeable reduction in their irritability, a stronger impulse being required to bring about contraction which implies that the will power must be correspondingly increased.

Digitized by LjOOQie
298

Their elasticity is likewise affected, the fatigued muscle extending easier if compelled to contract against an added weight, there being evidently a lack of the ability to recoil completely. This is of significance in heart fatigue since it may lead to bad consequences. (Schmidt.)

Pain which may be felt for several days manifests itself if the group is worked vigorously enough and for a long time. This may even extend to lameness if the muscle is completely fatigued.

In mental fatigue analogous to local muscular fatigue there is at first a noticeable ebb and flow in the faculty of attention. It is easily distracted. We are forced to bring it back to the subject in hand repeatedly as it constantly drifts. Children at this stage usually begin to play entirely ignoring the decorum of the school room and the edicts of the teacher. Play is to them a safety valve and they are merely following the “safety first” policy in accordance with the self-preservative instinct which nature has so deeply implanted in them. This lack of concentration may be followed by the feeling of dullness and, eventually, if the mental work is continued long enough, by the symptoms of general fatigue.

Attention is a phase of all the higher mental processes of strenuous modern life which can not be continued ^or any great length even by the fully developed adult mind without becoming tired. Irritability also usually manifests itself and is certainly not diminished by the constant demand made on the faculty of inhibition.

The primary causes of these symptoms are due to fatigue substances which are the end. products of cell activity. They consist of carbon dioxide, lactic and sarco lactic acids, acid potassium phosphate, etc.

If their production exceeds the elimination they are diffused through the body by the blood stream and general fatigue will result; thus it is possible to produce the symptoms of general fatigue by fatiguing local muscle groups or the brain. In local fatigue the symptoms are due to improper elimination of these substances from the working parts.

Having briefly considered the causes and symptoms of fatigue let us now glance at the activities which give rise to them. Beginning with the ever busy senses we find a great strain placed upon most of them at all stages of our life by our daily activities. The school places, a great strain upon the finer muscles which adjust the vision. This is also true of all who perform clerical work of different kinds or any other work at close range. There occurs therefore frequently fatigue of these finer muscles of accomodation. We have a similar condition in the sense of touch. The sense of hearing is certainly overtaxed by the many loud noises beating upon it in industrial and business life, if not in the school, and is in need of relaxation. These organs of sense being compelled to receive so many stimuli during the day frequently become fatigued. The typist, the tender of the modern complex machines, musicians (pianist and violinist), clerks, teachers, and students are in particular subject to these fatigues. If muscular action takes place it is usually of the smaller muscles of the hand and arm and requires considerable coordinate ability; for example, the typist, musician, machine tender, clerk, etc., which are quickly tired and involve fatigue of the brain tracts controlling these groups as well as the muscles.

The modern business and professional man or woman suffers principally from fatigue of the higher mental powers unfortunately accompanied by lack of physical work involving the large primitive muscle groups, which, however, is also true of the aforementioned group. He is called upon to direct his attention to a given subject and to hold it there with intense concentration. He

Digitized by v^ooQle
299

is compelled to analyze situations and by careful reasoning and thoughtful and correct selection of the proper response adapt himself accordingly. Again and again during the day he must call his will power into play to inhibit motions and emotions which persist in ising to the surface. These things lead to fatigue of the higher powers which should each day receive some attention and time devoted to the process of recreation and relief.

The reason these higher brain powers and smaller muscles fatigue so rapidly whereas the coarser fundamental muscles and the nerve centers controlling them seem almost immune to fatigue,'is the receney of the development of these organs and functions. They are the latest acquisitions of the human organism. The development of shoulder and hip, and later of the jointed limbs and hands, was a tedious process due to need of increased locomotion. This led to improved digestive, excr tive, respiratory and circulatory systems; furthermore, to greater freedom of action and the development of an increased number of muscles and new parts of the brain.

The hand, fingers and toes are capable of porforming many complex movements. Their center of control is composed of many cells, is very complicated, delicately constructed and easily exhausted. Not so with the large trunk,/ hip and shoulder muscles and their center of control. They can perform but few and simple movements, controlled by tough nerve cells which possess great powers of endurance. (Tyler, Growth and Education.)

The activity of thes? fundamental muscles may thus be applied for valuable recreative purposes. They are much neglected in the daily affairs of modern life, so our directors of playgrounds, recreation centers and the physical educator in general a ill do well to emphasize their use. The racially old pastimes of running, jumping, vaulting, swimming, stri ring, throwing, climbing and swinging by the hands, all elements of play activities, bring into action these fundamental muscle groups. Modern education has developed as a part of it a system of physical education of which these form the basis. Other closely related activities needed to give to the young, and to adults as well, such bodily training as will counteract the evil influence of our complex modern life have been added.

By means of these diversions the higher brain centers fatigued from the strenuous daily routine are not only forced into almost complete inactivity but at the same time have the fatigue substances washed from their tissues and nutriment carried to them by the greatly accelerated circulation. Inhibition casts off its restraint and motion and emotion are allowed full play; analyzing, reasoning and remembering are replaced by (1) the self-sustained interest aroused by the exercises; (2) by a consciousness of vigorous motor action; (3) by an outward radiation of nervous energy; (4) by an interaction of nerve and muscle instead of an interaction of mental processes; and (5) by the joy of exhilarating activities. Here is indeed recreation, forming anew, for although these higher centers are to some extent active in this work, it is a subconscious activity, primitive in its nature and consequently simple so that the anabolic phase of metabolism far exceeds the katabolic phase.

By the same means the fatigued smaller muscle g-oups from which so many individuals of all ages suffer, find relief and are more quickly restored and freshened than by other forms of recreation or even idleness. Dr. Weber, head of the Institute of Physiology of Occupations of the University of Berlin, has demonstrated (Deutsche Revue, August 1914) that fatigued muscles can be more quickly restored if other groups of muscles are vigorously exercised than by rest. It is a well known fact that the blood supply to *an active muscle is greatly increased.

Digitized by Google
300

He found, however, that as the muscle approached fatigue this supply became less so that at a certain stage it was below the normal. But as soon as other distant groups of muscles were exercised the flow to the fatigued parts also increased, thereby cleansing the muscle of its waste products and supplying nourishment. His object was to assist those engaged in occupations requiring the constant use of local muscle groups. By brief periods of exercise of other groups of muscles; fatigue of the parts required in the performance of their daily task could be relieved and better and more work accomplished. This principle applied in physical education indicates that a formal lesson with the correct selection of movements prescribed in proper sequence can be made to possess recreative values as well as educational.

The fatigue of the senses of sight, touch and hearing which also find rehef in properly selected activities, is not only due to their activity but is also affected by overexertion cf higher mental powers. Games and other pastimes in which the eye is compelled to accomodate itself to distant things, in which coarse contact is demanded of the hands, and in which a minimum of noise occurs, relieves the strain placed upen these organs. The quiet of hiking, cross country running, golf, fishing and swimming and dancing are excellent means of relief.

Recreation for the brain and the smaller muscle groups we may conclude, depends chiefly on bodily action. It is, however, a fact that the overexerted faculties may also be relieved by amusements requiring but little physical action such as the theater, movies, singing, quiet games, etc., etc., which are profitable ways of occupying leisure time. Not all free time can be devoted to physical recreation, but in view of its hygienic importance we may well place, it first in order for there are many agents active which encourage physical degeneration. Their removal will do much to keep the body in better condition. Our strenuous mode of living in addition to unsanitary and unhygienic conditions with utter neglect of the human organism has recently shown remarkable increase in the death rate of man above 40 years of age. The bulk of these deaths is due to diseases of degeneration of the heart, arteries, kidneys and of the nervous and digestive system, and belong to an age group above 60 years. E. E. Rittenhouse, president of the Life Extension Institute, in a paper entitled “Protecting the Human Machine” has the following to say about deaths due to these diseases:

“In three decades the records show that the mortality from these diseases has nearly doubled. In the short period of ten years, the census shows that the death rate from these diseases of degeneration in a group of over 5,000,000 occupied males is as follows:

Increase

	Rate	Per cent
Apoplexy and nervous system. . .	....30.6	19
Heart		....38	29
Kidney and urinary system		....43	43
Liver and digestive system		....22.5	34

“The same story of the declining power of the American people to resist diseases of the vital organs is told by the statistics in the general population wherever comparisons can be had. The same record shows that the mortality rate has declined from the important communicable diseases, typhoid, tuberculosis, etc., against which an active war has been waged.”

So far Dr. Rittenhouse. The point I wish to make here is that the breaking down of the vital organs may, partly at least, be attributed to lack of physical exercise, physical recreation, if .you will. The complex structure of these

Digitized by v^ooQle
301

organs is the result of increased demand made upon them with the advancement of locomotion of primitive man. They developed for the purpose of performing important functions demanded by the increased musculature caused by the progress of locomotipn. But today they can no longer serve that purpose since physical locomotion has become a thing of the past with busy people. The large muscle groups are kept idle and these vital organs degenerate while the highly developed nervous system is strained to the breaking point.

This can not be balanced by what we might term mental recreation; it calls for vigorous action of the primitive muscles to create a natural demand for the functions of the vital organs and thus strengthen the whole organism. The war that has been waged against typhoid and tuberculosis must be extended to these diseases of degeneration. Preparedness for this war is.of the highest importance to us and is best obtained by active participation in the activities previously named with, perhaps, some exceptions. All exercises demanding great speed of movement as sprinting and those requiring much strain (strength exercises) must be avoided in these years.

In the gymnasium free exercises, simple stunts on the apparatus and games such as do not contain rapidity of movement (sprinting) as an element, form the chief part of a program of work. A proper amount of such wholesome forms of activities will at least partly affect the declining vigor of the vital organs. They are not only serving the object of relieving fatigue, but they also act as a prophylactic, the second phase of our subject which we are about to consider briefly.

Increasing resistance to fatigue. Every one is aware of the fact that flabby muscles fatigue quickly. An important cause of this is the poor quality of the muscle fiber. With practice, however, this is decidedly improved so that a noticeable difference in the endurance of the muscle is apparent, believed to be due to improved muscle tissue. If the training taken up is adapted to the age and sex of the individuals and selected to cover the entire musculature we can produce results which will greatly lessen the tendency toward fatigue.

According to Dr. Hawke (Amer. Jour. Phys., 1910) we can also by correct adaption of activities increase the resistance to disease. He found a greater proportion of white blood corpuscles in trained individuals than in the untrained and since these blood cells have as one of their principal functions the protection of the body against foreign and harmful organisms we may assume that we are better protected when in good condition than otherwise.

To attain and retain physical hardihood should be a national policy beginning in our youth and continuing throughout life. We should understand the need of the child when it enters school and the influence of school life upon it which under the present condition has a marked effect on its physiological functions. If in these years children can be given the freedom of action described in the chapter on “Play” in Dr. Dewey’s “Schools of Tomorrow” many evils will be eliminated. We can not go into details as to the various types of activities which should compose the physical education of school children, but generally speaking it must be of the nature to increase metabolism and neuromuscular power, gradually progressing in speed, strength, skill and endurance work in accordance with the changes taking place in the young organism. We should recognize the danger' resulting from strength work given too early and in improper doses, and the fact that children fatigue quickly and recover quickly which would indicate that endurance work must be carefully presented.

When “marathon running” was at its height a paper in one of the leading cities of the country organized an abbreviated marathon for the elementary

Digitized by v^-ooQle
302

public school children. The enthusiasm aroused among the boys was immense and a great number of all ages took part. Many of the youngsters never finished the run, but the more determined ones did with undoubtedly harmful results to themselves. If we were to be frequently exposed to such foolish, though well meant undertakings should we not expect our boards of health to protect our future citizens against them by increasing their supervision over the public health so as to cover such cases?

With the leaving of the elementary school adolescence with its changes in heart and lung growth as well as the completion of height growth are guiding principles in the selection of material.

A growing organ must be stimulated to develop it to its highest efficiency and in these years should be laid the foundations for this organic vigor, which we may reasonably expect will tend to stay the deteriorating process of these organs. But stimulation by exercise does not mean over-exertion, or exhaustion, for these have the opposite effect and, if repeated, frequently enough end in lasting harmful results. The heart is particularly affected by it.

In connection with this the need of thoroughly trained men and women to supervise the pastimes and training of our high school pupils is self-evident. Many mistakes are still made. The future health of our youths is placed in jeopardy by permitting them to enter contests requiring great strength and strain and endurance without.a previous medical examination as to their physical fitness. There are some who without injury to themselves could take part in them, but a haphazard method is followed, there being no requirements excepting athletic ability in one case and a permit from the parents being sufficient in another instance of which I am awrare to entitle them to active participation in strenuous competition. There are no doubt other similar conditions in the State. One can not thus dodge responsibility. Such procedures do not excuse those in authority in whose hands the physical welfare of our young people is placed. Safety first, must be our slogan where human lives are at stake and not the question of the survival of the fit. Such are the conditions in some high schools. With such facts before us certain events of high school competition, especially the 440, 1-2 mile and other middle distance runs are best omitted. Another exceedingly dangerous competition in which only the exceptionally physically fit should be permitted to take part, is the basket ball tournament in which the winning team is required to play a number of games in succession. The Indiana High School Athletic Association has during the past 5 years been promoting state tournaments. During the years 1912 to 1915 the winning teams wrere compelled to play five (South Bend), four (Wingate), five (Wingate) and four (Thornton) ga es in two days in the respective years. In some of these years three games were played in one day. To my mind this places an excessive strain upon growing organs which can only result in harmful effects, in lowering the vitality and not in raising it, and in decreasing the resistance of the body to fatigue and disease.

The game of basketball with halves of proper length and correct intervals of rest between them is a wholesome pastime for high school boys and girls, but as usually played, with two 20 minutes halves under conditions none too healthful and in competition with outside teams in crowded gymnasia where the contestants are spurred on to utter exhaustion, it defeats its aim.

Mr. Berry in a paper entitled “Athletic Albuminuria” read before the American Physical Education Association in 1911 (American Physical Education Review, Jan. 1912) gave the results of an investigation of the effects of basket-

Digitized by v^ooQle
303

ball, football, and a lesson in gymnastics on the presence of albumen in the urine* His subjects were students of the Y. M. C. A. training school particularly selected for the experiment, all of them being in sound physical condition. He found an excessive amount of albumen after a basketball game, considerably less after football and but half so much as in basketball after a gymnastic lesson. It was, furthermore, found that there was a marked increase in the deposits after games played with outside teams over the deposits occurring after ordinary practice games.

Whether our Indiana Basketball tournaments should be modified or not might under such conditions receive serious attention from those in authority.

Excessive competition with outside teams should be avoided during the high school period. What is needed is all-around training for all boys and girls and occasional contests, mostly intra-school competition in which every one may take part.

Maturity removes many of the dangers present during adolescence. All types of activities may be indulged in with beneficial results between the ages of 20 and 30 although the greatest achievements in strength and endurance occur between the ages of 30 and 40. However, the health value of “training” for the purpose of breaking records is questionable. (Dr. Schmidt). Drs. Schumacker and Middleton of the University of Wisconsin have come to the conclusion after an investigation of “The Cardiac Effects of Immoderate College Athletics” that “there is reason to believe that for normal human activities an 'athletic’ heart is distinctly disadvantageous.”

It is during these years (20-30) that the countries in which conscription • is in vogue compel the young men to take military training, a beneficial thing to the men and of value to the nation. Universal physical education along military lines means a distinct gain in national health and in national economic wealth when one considers the amount of money lost due to avoidable illness. Physical education and military training are important agents of race hygiene and of eugenics. Only the most elementary forms of military training can be intro-v duced into the schools — this training belongs to the age of maturity. The wisdom of a number of movements to make military training compulsory in the elementary and high schools is questionable. A much more rational method was adopted by the high school committee of the Philadelphia School Board which set aside two hours weekly for gymnastic work and three additional hours for various forms of outdoor training on the playgrounds of the city. Philadelphia proverbially may be asleep but it certainly has proven itself the most wide awake city of the Union so far as true preparedness is concerned. The result of this step will be increased efficiency, increased resistance to fatigue and disease, and better citizenship for future high school pupils.

Such innovations, it is reasonable to expect, will aid in the reduction of diseases due to our strenuous life since it is a better prepared body that enters the struggle for existence. They should not, however, be confined only to high school pupils. We must find ways and means of reaching those who leave school at an earlier age and also the men and women beyond high school age.

The individual must be aroused to a greater appreciation of health and physical hardihood; the community and its public officials, the boards of health and school boards, and particularly our legislatures, must recognize the importance of municipal playgrounds and recreation centers in a greater measure* In this connection, it is most regrettable that positions as instructors for recreation work are still in some places in the hands of the political party in power

Digitized by v^ooQle
304

and granted for services rendered or expected instead of demanding essential qualifications and determining the fitness for these positions by various civil service examinations. Thus, there still remains much to be done by those who have the nation’s welfare at heart if we wish to produce a race that will not succumb prematurely and so readily to the diseases with which modern life threatens us.

THE RIGHT KIND OF ATHLETICS FOR GIRLS.*

Florence A. Somers Technical High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

The first subject chosen for this paper was “The Right Kind of Activities for Girls”, including both their formal and informal activities. It was decided that this subject covered too large a field for one paper, and that the discussion of athletics alone would be more profitable. Most of us are better acquainted with what we call formal gymnastics, the benefits to be derived therefrom, and their effect upon the mental and physical health of the girl. Not so much is known about athletics. They show a comparatively recent development of thought along the line of women’s activities; and at the present time they are far from the perfected state of organization and administration to which we hope to bring them in the course of a few more years.

Let us first investigate what the word “athletics” means, and what activities it includes. The definition which seemed the best refers to “athletics” as “contests of physical skill and endurance for pastime and for development of bodily strength”. From custom and common usage the word “athletics” now includes all of our ordinary games, team games as well as more simple games, track and field events, and sports which may or may not have the element of competition, such as swimming, rowing, walking, etc. On the other hand, formal gymnastics refers to marching tactics, free exercises, apparatus work and dancing. In schools and colleges athletics are usually carried on out of school hours, although they are now gaining a place in the regular curriculum, and in some schools they have even displaced formal gymnastics altogether.

There are physical educators who are so enthusiastic about the splendid advantages of games and sports as to believe they can take the place of more formal activities. Although I believe that athletics can never wholly replace formal exercises, and that they ought to complement each other in any school system of physical education, yet, if the conditions are such that preference must be given to either one or the other (on account of lack of time, space or money) it is more important that athletics should remain. Better and quicker results are obtained, and more lasting benefit is derived from athletics, properly taught, than from formal gymnastics alone.

Since much has already been written on the benefits of athletics for girls, I shall not attempt to discuss that phase of the subject; but shall try to point out a few of the limitations of girls in athletics, and to present a few suggestions for the control and organization of girl’s sports. People are beginning to realize that haphazard methods of teaching and conducting athletics for girls are not any more successful than they would be if used in boys’ athletics. Just as women in modern times have been slower than men in taking up all general forms of exercise, so they have been more tardy in developing and systematizing their athletics.

* Read at the convention of the American Physical Education Association, Cincinnati, Ohio April, 1916.

Digitized by LjOOQle
305

A person who attempts to conduct a department of Physical Training in a school or college, must be able to do much more than teach a class in a gymnasium. She must be well endowed with ability for organizing. Like being a good teacher this seems to be something that is born in one and not easily acquired. Neither is it sufficient in a school simply to call for those who wish to come out for any given sport, and feel that our work is then done. Those who do not want to play must be persuaded to play; and it is a part of our work to devise methods that will create in the entire student body a desire to play.

We are not making the most of our calling if we spend our time in coachipg a school team, or even four class teams. When such teams are coached for the purpose of winning games, the large majority of the pupils are sure to be neglected, unless there are a greater number of instructors and gymnasiums than we have in most of our schools at the present time. Arrangements can easily be made for dividing the girls into many different groups which may compete against each other. In high schools they may be divided by the rooms they sit in, by the elementary schools they came from, by the courses of study they are taking, by various methods of electing captains and choosing teams, as well as by classes. In colleges and normal schools, groups may be made from the rooming houses and dormitories, from home counties and states, from sororities, from courses of study, from classes, etc. I place the class teams last in each case because I believe that too much time is being devoted now to coaching class teams, instead of attempting to find ways and means for a larger number of girls to play. Is it not better for 100 girls to play basket ball, however poorly they may play it — than for 10 girls to play it well? Of course it is more pleasant to coach a few good players who are interested in the game than to be continually urging and pushing the less enthusiastic girls to play. But can we be justified in doing this when our aim should be to reach every girl in our school, and to insure for her just so far as is possible a healthy, active and well-regulated life? If we believe that participation in games will help to accomplish that for a girl then we shall not feel statisfied until at lea$t nine-tenths of the girls in our school are voluntarily entering athletic work.

In trying to reach the majority of girls in any school we immediately find ourselves confronted with the necessity of moderating rules and conditions of games to suit the weaker girls. Is the average girl in a high school comparatively weak or comparatively strong? In looking over my enrollment of 350 I find the names of only 14 girls whom I consider really strong. These girls might play boys’ basket ball, might go in for almost anything that boys of the same age would do, without probable harm. But this is only my personal judgment. Are there others who consider that the average high school girl is weak? Professor John M. Tyler writes; “Look at the girl just entering the high school. She has been growing in height rapidly, but all her girths are below normal. Her lung capacity is small, her digestion poor; she suffers from constipation and headache, is anaemic and pale, her complexion is sallow and her eyes heavy.” Does anyone with experience with girls of this age believe that this is exaggerated? Mr. Joseph Lee in his recent book on “Play in Education” writes:	“The	girl’s

development..........is evidently not to be, to an extent at all comparable with

that of boys, through participation in strenuous athletic games. Some forms of athletics indeed are especially injurious to her.”

In many parts of the country there is the tendency for girls to try to imitate boys in their athletics. This is especially true where the girls’ physical instructor is a man, without special training, or where the woman in charge has

Digitized by LaOOQle
306

not had sufficient training in biology and pedagogy to realize the need of different types of work for boys and girls.

/ This tendency is often influenced by the opinions of the boys and girls themselves. Once a year at our high school we allow the boys of the school to come to the gymnasium to see a girls’ basket ball game. Without fail after every game, the boys are heard to make such remarks as these to the girls:	“You don’t

know how to play basket ball”, “Why don’t you play the game like we do?’’ After watching girls hurdle, a boy may remark, “That isn’t the way we hurdle”; or the high jump, “That’s the old way to jump - just watch our style.” Have girls of the high school age enough strength of character to cheerfully disregard such sentiments from the other sex? Are they not anxious to show these boys that they are perfectly able to do those very things if they only have the chance? This is a perfectly natural ambition. The girl has only just outgrown the period when she really was able to do all that her brothers did — to run as fast, to climb as high, and to play the same games. It is a wise teacher, with perhaps the aid of a wise mother, who can teach the girl that now she can still run and climb and play, but she needs to do them in her own way; that she is now developing into a woman, and her brother into a man; that her nature as well as her body is different from that of her brother; and therefore that games which are suitable for her brother to play are not suitable for her. Can not such a sentiment as this be formed, especially among boys and girls, that will improve the status of girls’ athletics and make them much easier to control?

It is in basket ball that there is the greatest temptation to imitate the game of the boys. I say “imitate” because I think there are very few young girls who can play the game in the same spirit in which it is played by boys. In interpreting the rules of guarding and gaining possession of the ball they become “scrappy”, lose their tempers, and often go so far as to make a complete spectacle of themselves. The game that has been evolved for women is a cleaner game in every respect; the attention of the player can be concentrated on the skillful passing of the ball instead of on the person of the opponent; fine team play can be developed; and there is much less chance of physical or nervous exhaustion.

If girls are allowed to imitate the athletics of boys will they become more masculine? This need not necessarily happen. There are more potent factors than sports which go to determine the masculinity of a girl. “How masculine Sadie has become in the last few years”, remarked one girl to another, “Yes, you know she has turned feminist.”

But the type of girl who usually cares to follow boys’ athletics is the strong, boyish girl. It is not necessary for us to try to give this kind of girl any more strenuous exercise than she would naturally get by following her own inclinations. I have never known a strong girl to refuse to play in a game because it was not active enough for her, but I have seen weak girls injured by participation in too strenuous games. We must adapt our playing rules and conditions for games to suit the weaker girls in the school. We should give our time and attention to strengthening them; the girls who are already strong can take care of themselves. Make them coaches, officials, anything to keep them busy and happy, but do not take your valuable time in coaching them in the fine points of the games. You will need many extra officials if you organize a great many smaller teams.

At West Tech the unit for all of the athletic teams is the home room or session room. Our plan for home rooms makes this especially practicable, as the pupils, when they enter, are assigned to rooms where they stay the entire four years.

Digitized by v^ooQle
STATS HOBMAL SCHOOL

U* ANGBJW. CALUtiKl^

307

Instead of changing rooms every year, the fact that the girls stay in one room for four years helps in developing a strong spirit of loyalty for that room. Then if they fail to make the team one year, there is practically the same team to work for the next year; and the older girls seldom drop athletics when they become Juniors or Seniors because the younger girls in the room look to them to get things started and help with the coaching. The average number of girls in a room is 23. From each room we usually have one hockey, one base-ball, one track, and two basket ball teams, which play competitive games after school hours throughout the year. Time is given up to the practice of these games during the regular class periods, of which each girl has at least three a week.

There usually needs to be some incentive to bring the girls out for games, besides mere love of the sport; so emblems are given to those who play on their home room teams. When a girl has received four of these emblems, three of which she must have won in the same sport, she is presented with a school letter; and when she has received six, four from the same sport, she is entitled to a sweater.

During the present year, from an enrollment of 350, there are 58 girls who have not played on a home room team in any of the above mentioned sports. I am convinced that this number would have been larger, if we had played boys' rules for the various games, and had laid too much emphasis on mere strength and playing ability. The ideals of recreation and enjoyment have been kept always before the girls; the other advantages of athletics will follow naturally as a result of these.

One of the best things I have read on girl’s athletics was written several years ago by Miss Burchenal:	“that	athletics	for girls should be encouraged

in every possible way, but that the fighting element should be subordinated, that proper safeguards should be made against injury, and that the differences should be made between boys’ and girls’ athletics — that the former be for fitghing if it must, but the latter should be preserved for sport and recreation.”

This brings us to another question — shall there be competition in girls’ athletics, and if so shall there be any restraint placed on the kind of competition? Certainly girls should compete in their games with other teams; other-teams; otherwise interest would lag, and there would be no incentive for play. Do you suppose a girl puts one half the amount of spirit and enthusiasm into a ten mile walk which she is faithfully performing in order to earn a badge or a certain number of points, that she does into a basket ball game played against another team for this same purpose of winning points? Does a girl put as much energy into making a certain height in a high jump just to say she has made that height, as she does when competing against other girls? And still some people advocate girls’ athletics without competition, that their aim should be merely to work to surpass one’s own record.

It would be extremely difficult to interest the majority of girls over fourteen in athletic sports without the spirit of competition. But in developing this spirit care must be taken not to over-develop it — not to emphasize it so much that the girl thinks more of the competition than of the game. This soon develops into that spirit of “winning at any cost”. Girls show this spirit not so much by trying to win by unfair means as by using up all of their strength and nerve force, until they break down emotionally when the game is lost. I have heard girls who have just played on a losing team say between sobs:	“I said before the game that I wouldn’t cry if we lost, but I just can’t

help it.” One of the best preventives for broken hearts after a game, is to foster the little custom that the losing team shall give a cheer for the winning team.

Digitized by
308

I	should like to see Henry Van Dyke’s “Rules for Sportsmanship” posted in every gymnasium in the country. It is chiefly because of the evils of extreme competition that it is inadvisable for girls to play interscholastic games. Almost all of the arguments used in favor of such games are equally applicable to intra-school athletics when they are well organized.

Girls have not learned yet as well as boys how to take defeat; neither have they learned so well the team spirit. Mr. Lee believes that the team sense exists in girls, although it is not so strong as in boys. Loyalty in them exists for the home, and for their personal friendships, but they have never had the training which enables them to show loyalty to, and co-operate with any group of people. Team sense is not traditional with them. When the time comes that all girls shall begin at an early age to play games with other girls and boys and continue it throughout tfyeir growing period, then I believe we shall find in the high schools and colleges that they will have a foundation of the characteristics which go to make up successful team work — unselfishness, thoughtfulness, co-operation, etc., and will respond more intelligently to coaching in team games.

But after all, one of the greatest questions we are concerned with is - - does the average girl continue her interest in any kind of sport after she has finished school? Of what ultimate good are athletics to a girl while she is in school if her life after her school years is to be entirely sedentary? Many women have not enough ambition to get out doors and walk a mile or two every day. These women would lead far happier and healthier lives if they possessed the fundamental love of exercise and sports that would drive them outdoors every day to play tennis or golf or even to walk if there is no opportunity for other things. We must teach if possible the kinds of games that the average person will have a chance to play near her home without special apparatus. There are many games which can be taught in every school in the spring - - and which the students can play all summer in their yards or in the street. Among these are Prisoner’s Base, Duck on a Rock, Base Ball, etc. If we can hold a girl’s interest in athletics for four years of high school, and persuade her to play our games during the summers, it is very likely that this interest will be strong enough to last under ordinary conditions for the rest of her life.

Although definite rules exist for many of the sports suitable for girls such as basket ball, field hockey, etc., girls’ athletics in general have never been suitably organized. There is a decided lack of uniformity in the conduct of athletics and games throughout the country. Among others, Mr. Carl L. Schrader and Dr. Harry E. Stewart have been doing a great deal to remedy this lack, especially in track and field athletics.

Would it be wise or practicable to have a national body or committee for the purpose of standardizing and controlling athletics for girls and women? Such a committee would meet annually in some central city and would have for its aims;

1.	To promote interest in girls’ athletics.

2.	To standardize rules for team games and for track and field athletics.

3.	To make rules to govern amateurs and professionals.

This last may hardly seem necessary for women, especially as interscholastic games are not generally carried on. But I have in mind one case in a church league for girls’ basket ball, where an ordinary knowledge of what amateurism means should have been used. This game was reported in the Sunday morning paper and was emphasized as being an important one in the series for championship. It happened that the instructor of one of the teams played on the team herself, and felt justified in doing so because one of the regular players was not feeling well!

Digitized by LjOOQie
309

This committee might also be able to so regulate the rules of a given sport that they could be made suitable for either girls of the high school age or of college age. For instance, the rules for field hockey were made for college girls. In playing the game with high school girls the necessity is seen at once for decreasing the size of the field and shortening the playihg halves of the game.

Men’s athletics have for some time been controlled by the Amateur Athletic Union, and other athletic associations. Should there not be a separate organization to control women’s athletics? At the last meeting of the A. A. U. in November, 1915, it was voted to “let down the bars to women, hereafter and sanction athletic and swimming events among women and to keep the records made by the fair sex”. They are even to be allowed to complete with men, in events such as swimming where the sexes can meet on practically even terms.

Do our women really wish to compete against men? Do they even wish to be allowed to enter an association where such competition is sanctioned? I believe it would be better for the control of women’s athletics to be on an entirely separate basis, and for the board of control to be made up of women and men who have had a great deal of experience in working with girls and women.

THE CORRELATION OF FUNCTIONAL EFFECTS OF GYMNASTIC TYPES OF ACTIVITY.

/

By Fred E. Schlatter, Los Angeles, Cal.

We have inherited from the early Greeks and Romans and from the later Germans, English, and Swedes, a mass of technical material in the form of dances, games, and gynyiastic exercises, and in addition a number of so called “systems” of physical education. It has become the task of the physical educator to analyze this conglomeration of material, and determine the value of its component parts.

It is of greatest importance in such an analysis to consider the physiological effects of various exercises upon the human organism.

If it were possible to determine accurately all the functional effects of each particular type of physical activity, so that the activities could be classified in respect to these effects, we would have at our command an instrument of immense value, not only in physical education, but also in medicine.

The beginnings of such analysis go back to very early times when feats of strength were diligently recorded. At Olympia a block of stone weighing 480 pounds has been found bearing the inscription, “Eumastus, son of Cretobolus, lifted me from the ground.”

Here we see the two phases of the subject represented. In the first place there is the nature of the exercise, and secondly there is the effect upon the man. In respect to the former we are shown the rock; in regard to the latter we may surmise that the son of Cretobolus survived his lift for a reasonable length of time at least.

The student of today develops these two phases and adds to our knowledge of them an accuracy which to the Greek was impossible of attainment even if ‘ he had so desired.

Today activities are analyzed by means of the tape measure, the stop watch, the moving picture, and the methods of kinesiology, while their physiological effects are studied by the newest scientific methods.

Already these studies are beginning to bear fruit. An attempt has been made to classify all physical activities into three great classes; 1. Speed, 2. En-

Digitized by v^ooQie
310

durance, 3. Strength. Whether this classification will stand the test of future investigations remains to be seen. For our purpose at present it is a useful one. Most of the investigations have been on exercises of endurance and speed.

Karrenstein working on soldiers under forced marches found that a fall in blood pressure or negative phase below the normal was common after the exercise.

0.	S. Lowsley’s investigation on Marathon runners showed that the period of subnormal blood pressure after the exercise was directly proportional to the degree of exhaustion.

Zadek and Maximowitch and Reider found that the rise in pressure during the exercise was proportional to the work done.

In exercises of speed, as the 100 yd. dash, Lowsley found that the negative phase was much more lasting and pronounced than in exercises of moderate endurance.

Tangl and Zuntz working on dogs, indicated that exercises of speed caused an elevation of from 115 mm. to 235 mm. of Hg. in one case, and from 120 mm. to 242 mm. of Hg. in another case. Jellinek, Grebner, Gruenbaum, Kornfeld, Masing, and O. Moritz have investigated the question thoroughly and the results corroborated those of practically all recent investigators.

This research has been carried on for. the purpose of getting criteria for grading, based on a correlation of functional effects of types of gymnastic activity.

The exercises selected for this purpose were (1) the hang, (2) the half lever in the hang, (3) the pull up, (4) the push up in the cross rest position, (5) the full squat. These exercises were selected as representing typical gymnastic movements.

The physiological tests selected were the changes in heart rate and blood pressure before, during, and after the exercise.

The heart rate and return was suggested by the investigations of Pembrey and Todd, who found that the time of return was directly proportioned to the individual’s organic circulatory power.

The changes in blood pressure were attempted not with the expectation of any special information, but merely to make the picture complete and comparable with those already obtained by others in other forms of exercise.

The Apparatus. The idea was to use a simple method of procedure which might adapt itself to clinical work. Therefore the Xray and Cardiogram methods were omitted and the apparatus used was as simple as possible.

It consisted of two Erlanger sphygmomanometers, one instrument recording the pulse rate from the ankle, and the other recording the blood pressure from the arm. A seconds clock recorded the time on the former apparatus. By means of a telegraphic key and an electro-magnetic marking lever, the instant that systolic or diastolic pressure was read, it could be recorded on the other Erlanger apparatus.

Method of Procedure. The method of procedure was as follow's:	(a)	the

pulse rate was taken at the wrist by palpitation; (b) the normal systolic and diastolic pressures were recorded. In all cases where the graphic record was ill-defined the auscultatory method was resorted to to verify the graphic findings, (c) Pressure was then applied on the ankle, the drum set to rotate, and the pulse recorded for approximately one half minute, (d) The subject then performed the exercise and then assumed the same position as before the exercise, (e) The arm band was blown up and the systolic and diastolic pressures graphically recorded. The ankle band remained blown up and so gave a continuous record thruout the experiment, (f) These readings were continued until the pressure had again

Digitized by L^ooQle
311

returned to normal, (g) The pulse was again taken at the wrist to determine whether the rate had also returned to normal.

In order to avoid any effects of a physical nature due to the newness of the'^ experiment, all of the men were subjected to a preliminary test which was not taken into account in the following conclusions.

The time of day at which each individual exercised was kept constant.

Results.

Average Increase in Exercise	' Rate  I	S. P.  i	D. P.	P. P.	Time necessary for P. Rate to return to Normal
I	1.50	4.5tf	0.	4.50	:10 sec.
II	2.54	5.83	1.25	4.58	:26 sec.
III	2.08	6.66	.41	6.66	:22 sec.
IV	1.88	4 83	0.	4.83	:24 sec.
V	1.70	3.00	0.	3.00	:27 sec.
VI	3.87	21.25	2.50	19.16	3:16 sec.

Note: S. P—Systolic Pressure. D. P.—Diastolic Pressure. P. P.—Pulse Pressure.

The maximum and minimum changes in the various exercises were as follows:

Increase in	Rate		S. P.	i D. P.	P. P.	| Time of return to normal.
	Min.	! 0.	2	0	2	:00 sec.
Ex. I	Max.	! 3.	8	0	8	:25 sec.
	Min.	1 0.	2	0	1	:00 sec.
Ex. II	Max.	4.5	18	5	13	:50 sec.
	Min.	0.	2	0	2	:00 sec.
Ex. Ill	Max.	3.5	12	5	12	:45 sec.
	Min.	0.5	2	0	2	:00 sec.
Ex. IV	Max.	3.	12	0	12	:50 sec.
	Min.	0.	2	0	2	:00 sec.
Ex. V	Max.	3.	8	0	8	:45 sec.
	Min.	1.5	6	0	3	:45 sec.
Ex. VI	Max.	6.5	56	5	51	6:10 sec.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
312

The exercises re-arranged according to the data of Chart No. I would be graded, under the various headings as follows:

Average Increase in	Rate	S. P.	D. P.	P. P. |	Time of Return
Exercise	No. 1	No. 5	Nos. 1, 4, 5	No. 5	No. 1
Exercise	No. 5	No. 1	No. 3	No. 1	No. 3
Exercise	No. 4	No. 4	No. 2	No. 2	No. 4
Exercise	No. 3	No. 2	No. 6	No. 4	No. 2
Exercise	No. 2	No. 3		No. 3	No. 5
Exercise	No. 6	No. 6		No. 6	No. 6

The exercises were numbered as follows:

I.	Hang by the hands for one half minute.

II.	“Chinning” the bars 5 times.

III.	Performing 5 half levers while in the hang position.

IV.	5 dips and “push ups’* while in cross rest position.

V.	Full squat 5 times.

VI.	Full squat 50 times.

Exercise VI was added to bring out if possible any accumulative effects due to increased repetition.

From chart No. I We see that the average time for the return of the pulse rate to normal in the first five exercises was less than 1-2 min. indicating that the factor of fatigue was not present.

In the 6th Ex. this time was 3:16 which shows conclusively that these exercises do not come under the classification of Speed or Endurance as suggested by the findings of Lowsley, Todd, Tweedy and Kairenstein.

The average increase in B. P. according to the findings of Zadke, Maximo-witch and Reider indicate the degree of work done. The highest average rise indicated in these exercises was 19:16 m. m. H^. which goes to show the moderate character of the exercises.

The blood picture is the characteristic one found by all other investigators.

In order to give a clearer conception of the actual degree of change, chart No. II has been added. Applying these physiological criteria, the exercises would be graded as indicated by Chart No. III.

The trained and untrained man gave no appreciable difference in the picture they represented.

Conclusions.

I.	The minute physiological changes indicated by this research show clearly that the average type of gymnastics has little organic, value, except when repeated a number of times.

II.	That gymnastic exercises if repeated may have some organic value, has been indicated by the results of Exp. No. 6. It would be of great value to bring out the changes in effects due to concentration of attention on movement; the effects of speed, and of groups of movements.

Bibliography.

1.	Edgecombe and Bain, Journal of Physiol. 1899, V. 24, p. 48.

2.	Lowsley, O. S. Amer. Journ. Physiol. March 1, 1911.

3.	Masing, E. Deut. Arch. f. klin. Med. 1902 V. lxxiv, P. 253.

4.	Moritz, O. Deut. Arch. f. klin. Med. 1903, V. lxxvii, p. 339.

5.	Pembrey and Todd, Journ. Physiol. V. 37.

6.	Tange, F. and Zunst, N. Arch. f. d. Gesam. Physiol. 1898, V. lxx, p. 544. (abstracted from Masing.)

7.	Williamson, Brit. Med. Journ. Feb. 27, 1909, P. 530.

Digitized by v^ooQie
313

THE SCHEMATOGRAM—A NEW METHOD OF GRAPHICALLY RECORDING POSTURE AND CHANGES IN THE CONTOURS OF

THE BODY.

Clelia Duel Mosher, M. D.

No one making the physical exaniinations for admission of women to a college or university can fail to feel the need of some rapid method of making a graphic record of the posture and other conditions of the body.

The uneven shoulders and hips, the drooping heads, the winged scapulae, the flat chests, and the exaggerated supra- and infra-clavicular hollows need correction. The woman too often is unconscious of these and other departures from the normal, the only direction of her attention being the nagging of her family about standing up straight and putting shoulders back. Too often, if she has given any regard to these reiterated home directions, it is to bring about other postural defects equally undesirable. When the girl sees how these existing defects detract from her good appearance, she is sufficiently interested so that with her cooperation and the aid of her gymnasium work, the correction is only a matter of time. Thus not only many of the unlovely figures of middle age are avoided, but a menace to her good health at a later period is also removed.

There is no question, however, that we are not making physical training of as much help as it should be made to the individual woman. We have taken , over the methods in use for men and applied them with such limitations as the traditional handicaps of sex may have suggested without inquiring very extensively into the real effects of what we are doing. To accomplish any reform we must have more exact methods of work. The anthropometric methods' used for many years are gradually falling into disuse. These, certainly, laying their main emphasis on the size of muscles, have little relation to the personal hygiene of the individual woman. A functional index which shall be a rapid and accurate measure of the effect of the physical training work on the particular woman is needed. Posture, which is so closely associated with the perfect functioning of the body, should be one of the conditions on which this index is based.

The instruments making use of the pantograph principle have met this need only in small part. For the study of posture we must have a graphic method which will record the whole figure; the record must be made rapidly and be inexpensive enough to use in every examination. The instruments which I have seen, making use of the pantograph principle, do not meet all of these requirements. Photography is objectionable for two reasons: the possible identification of the individual woman by any one into whose hands the record may fall makes it permissible only in very rare cases; the cost is prohibitive for any extensive use.

The schematograph here described is a step towards putting question of posture on a more accurate working basis.

The schenmatograph (from schema, form shape, grapho, I write,) is an instrument devised by the writer and Professor E. P. Lesley, of the mechanical engineering department of the Leland Stanford Junior University.

The one in use in Roble Gymnasium was constructed in the university mechanician shop under the supervision of Professor Lesley.

This apparatus consists of a reflecting camera, Fig. C. Instead of the ground glass of the ordinary camera there is placed a clear glass. Upon this clear glass is laid a piece of thin tracing paper or cloth. The image is thrown upon this paper and outlined or fully drawn with a pencil or pen: the schematogram gramma, thing written).

Digitized by uooQle
314

The top of the schematograph camera carrying the clear glass plate is movable. Two dowel pins at diagonally opposite corners of the camera are arranged to fit into suitably located holes in the movable top. The change in position of the top of the schematograph makes it possible to record the image on any portion of the paper without moving the paper on the glass. It is a simple device which works rapidly and satisfactorily. Although the schematograph top is

Fig. C.

made with a possibility of movement in four directions, only the lateral movements have been used in the posture work.

The center of the figure, or that part of the figure of which it is desired to make a schematogram, is placed directly in front of the lens. The image is,

Digitized by CjOOQle
315

therefore, always projected to the center of the camera, thus giving the maximum of light and clearness of definition. In order to have a bright image that can be easily outlined, it is necessary to use a comparatively large lens. One with a four-inch aperture has been found suitable.

In use the camera will be placed in a dark room or screened with dark cloth. The subject for study (posture, spinal curvature, etc.) is placed in a strong light before a dark screen (Fig. A) or behind a light screen (Fig. B). In the former case the picture upon the tracing paper is that of the subject; in the latter case the picture is of the shadow of the subject.

The strong light may be a 3,000-watt nitrogen-filled Tungsten lamp; “the photo-light” with a clear lamp could be used. The work with the figure placed before the black screen has been so satisfactory that it has not seemed necessary to install the expensive light for the shadow work.

The screen which makes the background is seven feet high and four feet broad. There are two movable panels nearly the full size of the screen. These button into the frame work. The removable white panel has only been used as a reflecting surface to increase the light on a dark day. On the back panel are stretched two white wires at right angles to each other, thus dividing the black screen into four equal sections. These lines should always be drawn on the tracing paper before the subject is placed for the making of her schematogram. This does away with loss of time in trying to place the tracing paper with very great exactness on the schematograph. The lines make it possible to place the schematogram over a sheet of cross-section paper to study the variations in the two sides of the body, to superimpose a second schematogram over the first and see the changes with the minimum of error. After considerable experimentation, Keuffel and Esser Colonna Tracing paper 195 T, which comes in rolls 36 inches wide, was found most satisfactory. This was cut to order into sheets 8 1-2x11 inches to fit the top of the schematograph. The paper is held in place by a spring clip at each end.

It is possible to record on a single sheet of paper a schematogram of the front, the back, and a profile of the figure. The figure in the schematogram is about eight inches in height as I have usually made it. The image, of course, is reversed in the schematogram. The use of this particular paper enables one to turn the paper over and have the image equally clear on the opposite side, thus correcting this error. The key number and any other data should of course be put on the back of the sheet as it is placed on the schematograph, to ensure the using of the schematogram with this reversal of the image corrected.

The floor in the examining room has been marked with brass nails at distances of two feet apart, so that the screen may be accurately placed and the distance recorded without loss of time. The instruments may be used with the screen placed from six feet from the lens to twenty or more. In practice I have found ten or twelve feet most satisfactory, as a rule.

When another schematogram is made at a later date the lines on the black panel will ensure the correct relation of the two records. If it is desired, the schematogram may be traced on a piece of cross-section paper, the second record being superimposed on the first, a tracing in another color of ink showing the relation between the first and second record. To make these tracings from the original schematograms, a box, containing one or more electric lights and a reflector with a plain glass top and spring clips similar to those used in the schematograph top, is desirable.

The placing of the schematograph in a closet, open at the top for ventilation, with an opening in the wall just large enough for the lens, has a distinct advan-

Digitized by boogie
316

tage. The examiner using the instrument is in a separate room and thus the personal reserve of the woman is respected.

By this graphic record the exact condition of any individual student can be indicated to the instructor who is to carry on the practical work, without subjecting the student to an additional examination by this instructor.

The definition of the image is so clear that not only the outline of the figure may be made, but the positions of the breasts, the prominence of the collar bones, the supra- and intraclavicular hollows may be made. In a very thin woman even the costal angle or the line of the spine has been clear enough to record without resort to markings of the skin to show the position.

By making a series of schematograms at intervals we may, at minimum cost of less thay two cents each and an expenditure of time of only from one and one-half to two and one-half minutes, exclusive of dressing and undressing, record the effect of our physical-training work on the individual woman. In addition to this, by the study of the schematograms of groups of students doing different forms of exercise, may we not hope to arrive at some estimate of the comparative value of these different kinds of physical training?

The immediate use of the schematogram supplemented by the use of a mirror impresses upon the student her departure from a correct posture. The demonstration of what should be done to correct this, the relating of the habit or habits which are bringing about these conditions, induce an interest and co-operation on the part of the student not otherwise readily obtained.

It is not necessary to talk about spinal curvature, which is of course present but of the habit of carrying the books on one arm, or the habit of standing on one foot, which is bringing about this detraction from the otherwise good appearance of the girl. We can thus avoid the undue emphasis on any pathological condition which unduly alarms and depresses the young woman by filling her mind with the idea that she is in any way defective. Spinal curvature connotes to her the need of surgical interference, while carrying her books on the other arm, standing on both feet suggests something that she herself may help to correct. She is left in the latter case hopeful and ready to cooperate with the instructor.

This instrument may be used not only by the medical examiner for admission to colleges and gymnasiums, but a farther possible field of usefulness for it may be found in the offices of certain physicians and surgeons. Whenever a graphic record of the contours and other conditions of the body will be of service, the schematograph provides a rapid, inexpensive and accurate means of making such a record. It requires no special knowledge of drawing, although facility in the use of pen or pencil will make the work more rapid. Accuracy in recording the image thrown on the tracing paper and a knowledge of what it is desired to record, are all that is needed.

The ideal physical training for women based on a clear perception of it being laboratory work in personal hygiene must have its success or failure measured by its effect on the individual woman. The schematograph here described promises to be of some help in establishing a more accurate relation between the work in physical training and its effect on the individual.

Stanford University, February 15, 1915.	’

Digitized by t^ooQle
! GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND I

O	......— m. ...» ■>——.... —i —.... -I 11,1   ■■ ■■	O

By H. ARMIN STECHER, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

GIVING ASSISTANCE DURING APPARATUS EXERCISES.

Translated from Turnzeitung March 5, 1916, by George Altmann State Normal

School, Minot, N. D.

Giving assistance is a very important factor in apparatus work, the nonobservance of which from indifference, inconvenience or ignorance has caused many accidents, and brought apparatus exercises into bad repute in certain communities. Instructions in correct assisting should be an important part in the training of gymnastic leaders. The leaders classes of the gymnastic district of Oldenburg were given the following advice and practical instructions.

1.	Giving assistance serves as a first line of defense for the gymnast.

2.	Precautions must be taken so that no accidents occur.

a)	The leader should assure himself of the safety of the apparatus before using it.

b)	Spectators should not stand so as to interfere with the gymnast.

c)	No one should cross the approach lane to the apparatus.

d)	Apparatus should not be used in the dark.

e)	Damp or wet apparatus should not be used; neither should the hands be moist.

3.	The danger while exercising will be lessened by a gradual increase in the difficulty of the exercises:

a)	No exercise should be attempted before its preliminary or developing exercises have been mastered; i. e. the “half-giant” must not be attempted before the gymnast has learned the proper swing, and the giant hip swing up.

b)	During vaults the distance to, and the height of the apparatus should be increased gradually.

4.	TJie person giving assistance should watch the increase in difficulty and give aid if the gymnast can not quite perform the exercise.

a)	The assistant should take hold at once if the gymnast’s strength begins to fail, and should not require the impossible;

b)	He should require courage and self-reliance, should not however demand anything foolhardy;

c)	He should require good position thruout the exercise.

5.	Holds used while giving assistance:

a)	Grasping the upper arm or shoulder before or during an exercise is used in most cases;

b)	Grasping about the trunk, especially for high dismounts, also for the straddle vault;

c)	Grasping the hand; i. e. for the knee dismount from the horse; or grasping the wrist during the swing on the horizontal bar.

6.	The assistance to be given on various apparatus:

(Assistance for similar exercises is described for only one apparatus.)

Digitized by LjOOQle
318

Parallel Bars.

1.	Swinging in support — Learn to swing first in the middle of the bars, later at the ends. Assistance—Grasp upper arm.

2.	At end of bars, facing inward:	Rear and flank vaults. Facing outward:

Front vault. Assistance—Grasp upper arm on same side.

3.	Leg swing vaults over one bar, rear vault. Push with hand that is raised. Assistance—Grasp opposite arm.

4.	Straddle vault inward or outward. Push off with both hands. Assistance—Grasp belt in rear.

5.	Cross support lying frontways:	Flank,	front	and	rear	vaults.	Outer

cross seat on one thigh:	flank, f^ont, rear vaults using one arm. Assistance—

Grasp stationary upper arm.

6.	Cross support lying front ways:	Squat	vault.	Assistance—One

man grasps upper arm or two men grasp both upper arms. Straddle vault. Assistance—Assistant stands directly in front, grasps around trunk, just below the arm pits.

7.	Upper arm kipp. Assistance—Reach under bars and assist at small of the back, withdraw arm quickly before backward swing.

8.	Roll foreward or backward on upper arms. Assistance—Grasp shoulders under, not above, the bars.

9.	Hand spring, turn over, with bent or straight arms. Assistance—Two men grasp upper arms and shoulders or one grasps upper arm and back.

10.	Hand stand with turn over forward. Assistance—As in exercise 9. Handstand with front vault turn over. Assistance—As in exercise 9, with one man assisting.

11.	Handstand with straddle or squat vault dismounts. Assistance—Two men jgrasp upper arms and support under shoulders.

12.	Circle front and rear vaults. Assistance—Grasp stationary upper arm.

Side Horse.

1.	Jump to support frontways, knee stand. Assistance—Grasp upper arm. Kneevault dismount. Assistance—Grasp hands; in certain cases, place one arm about trunk.

2.	Thief vault, free vault. Assistance—Two men grasp upper arms. At the side of approach stand ready to grasp about the waist in case the jumper falls backward.

3.	Circle and triple rear vaults. Assistance—Grasp upper arm.

4.	Fencer's vault. Assistance—Grasp supporting arm.

Long Horse.

1.	Jump to support lying. Assistance—Grasp upper arm.

2.	Giant vault over horse, also over buck or table. Assistance—Two men grasp upper arms or about the trunk; same for one man. Do not stand so as to interfere with the straddle vault.

Horizontal Bar.

Bar, chest to head, high.

1.	Hip pull up or hip circle. Assistance—Grasp at small of back.

2.	Knee swing up or knee circle. Assistance—Grasp opposite upper arm.

3.	Seat circle, foot circle, kipp rearways. Assistance—Two men grasp upper arms after half circle, not too late.

4.	Hip pull up rearways. Assistance—At first grasp and push on shoulders, after pull over the bar, grasp upper arm or chest.

Digitized by LjOOQie
319

5.	Kipp. Assistance—Grasp thigh and back.

6.	Straddle swing up. Assistance—Grasp trunk from in front during the swing up.

Bar, Jump High.

7.	Swinging. It is dangerous for the helper to push during the swing. Assistance—Grasp wrist.

Dismount at end of backward swing (Push off with the hands.) Assistance— Grasp about trunk. Dismount at end of forward swing. (Arch the back.) Assistance—As above.

8.	Giant hip swing up, half giant circle. Assistance—Grasp at back and rear of neck.

9.	Hang turn. Assistance—Grasp hips as the turn is made, in a turn left standing at the right side.

10.	Turn swing stem. The grasping arm remains straight. Assistance— Grasp hips during the turn, in a turn left from the left side, moving to the right during the swing.

11.	Giant cirqle. Assistance—Two men stand under the bar. In case of a fall back wards, grasp about the trunk.

A FOUR YEARS’ COURSE OF STUDY IN PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR

BOYS’ AND GIRLS’ HIGH SCHOOLS.*

(Continued)

Board of Public Education of Philadelphia.

1.	Tactics. II. Free Exercises. III. Rhythmic Steps. IV. Games. Track and Field Work. Miscellaneous Activities.

V.	Apparatus Work.

A.

B.

FIRST HIGH SCHOOL YEAR

1.	Tactics.

General Tactics.

1.	Form in a double rank, in order of height from right to left, each pupil

dropping her left arm as soon as the pupil to the left has correct distance. The rear rank is 40 inches behind the front.

2.	Dress right, left.

3.	Face right, left, right about, left about, right half, left half.

4.	March forward in front and flank formation. March backward. Face

upon command.

5.	Count off by twos and fours.

6.	Wheeling of the double ranks, also of single ranks; quarter and half

wheel; from a stand and while marching.

Special Tactics (for special occasions).

School of the Individual.

1.	Fall in (double rank).

2.	Squad, Attention (Position of the soldier).

3.	Parade, Rest.

4.	Eyes, Right (left). Front.

5.	Facings.

(a)	Right (left) Face, (b) Right (left) half, Face, (c) About, Face.

* All rights reserved.

Digitized by v^ooQle
320

6.	Hand Salute, Two.

7.	Steps and Marching.

(a)	Forward, March (quick time, cadence 120 steps per minute, length of step

30 inches.)

(b)	Double time, March (a run, cadence 180 steps per minute, length of

step 36 inches).

(c)	Mark time, March.

(d)	Half step, March.

(e)	Right (left) step, March.

(f)	Backward, March.

(g)	Squad, Halt.

(h)	While marching; By the right (left) flank, March.

(i)	To the rear, March.

(j)	Change step, March.

II.	Free Exercises.

In high school work exercises without hand apparatus should alternate often with wand exercises, dumb-bell exercises and club swinging.

The essential exercises in all high school grades are;

(a)	Arms: 1. Swing and raise the straight arms in all directions.

2.	Stretch, straighten, thrust and strike forward, sideward, up-

ward and downward, the starting positions being:	“Arm*

bent upward,” “Arms bent to thrust,” and “Arms bent * strike.”

3.	Circle arms forward, backward, inward, outward.

(b)	Legs:	1.	Swing and raise the straight leg in all directions.

2.	Place the foot in all directions; stride; straddle; lunge; fall-out;

lay-out.

3.	Raise the knee; foot; heels; bend the knees.

(c)	Tiunk: 1. Lower the trunk forward.

2.	Bend and sway the trunk in all directions.

3.	Turn the trunk; circling.

(d)	Exercises of the neck (head) should be combined with appropriate arm

and trunk exercises.

Co-ordinations.

Review the simple co-ordinations of the grammar grades.

Four movement sequences of one body-part, performed in the same direction.

Combinations of two body-parts.

Intersections.

Club-swinging.

1.	Arm circles with one and with both arms, forward, backward, outward, inward, left and right. Half circles.

2.	Hand circles with both hands forward, backward, outward and inward; the circles height of shoulders.

3.	Combined arm and hand circles with one and with both arms forward, backward, outward, inward, left and right; the hand circles behind the bent arms and the shoulders.

Note.—Where appropriate, combine the club exercises with trunk bending, lunging, knee bending, etc.

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

Digitized by t^ooQle
321

tep h of

late

up-

•rr.3

mt;

irm

ime

lut-

in'

for-

cles

ing.

III. Rhythmic Steps.

A.	Marching Step.

(1)	Marching in common time; i. e., 135 steps per minute; in fast time;

i. e., 150 to 160 steps per minute (arms swinging naturally).

(2)	Leg movements while marching and running:	On	toes,	raising and

swinging the knees, raising and swinging the straight leg.

(3)	Marching with two- and four-movement arm exercises, a movement

on the first of four (two) steps.

B.	Dancing Steps.

Review the gymnastic dancing steps of the grammar grades; i. e.,

(a)	Polka Rhythm.—Glide; Gallop; Skip-step; Step-hop; Glide-hop; Change-

step; Swing-hop; Balance-hop; Polka-hop; Cut backward, forward, sideward; Cut-hop.

(b)	Mazurka Rhythm.—(1) Repeat suitable steps enumerated under (a) and

adapt to the mazurka rhythm. (2) Three-step; mazurka-hop.

(c)	Schottische Rhythm.—(1) Repeat suitable steps enumerated under

and adapt to the schottische rhythm. (2) Three-step-swing-hop.

(d)	Waltz Rhythm.—Balance-step; Step-curtsy; Swing-hop.

C.	Appropriate Character and Folk Dances.

D.	Aesthetic Dancing.

The essential arm, leg and foot exercises should be taught.

IV. Games. Track and Field Work. Miscellaneous Activities. Games.

(a)	Review the more vigorous gymnastic games of the lower grades, also

team games like Dodgeball, Battleball, Endball, Captainball, Volleyball.

(b)	Teach the fundamentals of Tennis, Baseball and Basketball, choosing

such games as your facilities permit you to play.

B.	Track and Field Events.

(a)	Standing and running high, broad jump, and hop-step and jump (form,

not height or distance).

(b)	Endurance runs: 2 minutes.

Short races, relay races, 50 to 75 yards.

(c)	Hurlball far-throw, from a stand and from a run, also with a turn. Miscellaneous Activities.

C.	1. Swimming.

Swimming is an essential physical training activity.

High school girls should be able to swim from one-half to one hour, and to show the breast, side and back strokes. They should also know the simple forms of diving.

2.	Walking.

Tramping trips into the country should be encouraged during all seasons.

3.	Skating.

Girls should be able to skate forward and backward, also to perform some of the simple forms of fancy skating.

4.	Sledding.

Sledding and coasting should be encouraged whenever the weather is favorable.

5.	Camping, Boating.

In fact all sane forms of outdoor life should always be furthered by forming and directing organizations among the pupils devoted to such activities.

Digitized by v^ooQle
322

V. Apparatus Work.

Side Horse.

Support:—Side-support on both pommels in the saddle, frontways and rearways.

Mounts and Dismounts :-Knee- and squat-mounts. Leg-swing-mount and front-vault-mount on the croup and neck, and into the saddle. Change-seat:—By means of leg swing from croup to neck, or into the saddle. Vaults:—Squat-vault, front-vault, flank-vault.

Swinging Rings.

Jump-high:—Leg exercises. Raise knees (eventually eight times), short swing, pendulum swing in good form.

Head-high:—Arm and leg exercises. Jump to bent-arm hang; then raise knees, short swing, pendulum swing, sink down slowly.

Chest-high:—Arm and leg exercises. Hangstand frontways, rearw’ays and sideways by slow straightening of arms and sinking. Hangstand frontways and bend arms. Hangstand and raise one knee, or raise one leg.

Poles and Ropes.

Most exercises on the rings can also be executed on the poles and ropes. The characteristic movements on the poles, however, are the climbing exercises. The correct climbing position must first be taught, then teach the climbing up as well as downward. Later, while climbing, change from one pole to the next. Do not allow sliding downward. Climbing should be executed first on stationary poles and ropes, and later on swinging poles or ropes.

Horizontal Ladder, also Boom.

Reach-high:—Cross-hang and side-hang. Leg exercises, traveling sideward and forward.

Waist, also Knee-high:—Arm and leg exercise in the lying-support and the lying-hang frontways. Trunk exercises in sitting on the ladder. Many of these exercises can be performed also on the boom.

Vertical Ladder.

On Ladder and Floor:—Standing front-, rear-, and sideways. Arm, trunk, and leg exercises.

On Ladder:—Hang-stand frontways. Arm, trunk, and leg exercises. Hang with leg exercises. Walking up and down the ladder frontways.

Oblique Ladder.

Many of the exercises of the horizontal or the vertical ladder can be performed on the upper or the under side of the oblique ladder. Some exercises are thereby made easier; some, more difficult.

Balance Beam.

Low Beam:—Standing on the beam, walking, also leg exercise. Stand on beam and jump off. Walking forward, forward with leg-raisings in various directions, follow-step, etc.

Chest-high':—Easy mounts, dismounts and vaults.

Giant Stride.

Marching, running and flying. Running sideward. Flank formation, marching and running forward (one or both hands grasping the ladder). Short flight.

Traveling Rings.

The characteristic exercise on this piece of apparatus is the traveling from one ring to the next. Grasp two rings, swing sideward, bending and straightening the arms. Travel with half turns. Travel with various leg positions.

Digitized by

Google

(
o

PHYSIOLOGY AN® HYGIENE

■o

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D. Cleveland High School, Newark, N. J.

Report of Two Cases of Scoliosis, Accompanied by Pressure Paralysis of the Lower Limbs.—This is the title of a paper read before the Section on Orthopedic Surgery at the Sixty-Seventh Annual Session of the American Medical Association, Detroit, Mich., June 1916, by Dr. John Ridlon, Chicago. Two cases were cited in which examination with the aid of the Rcentgen-ray showed pressure of the dislocated vertebrae cn the anterior part of the spinal cord. Both cases were girls, one eleven, the other sixteen years of age. Both presented spastic paralysis of the lower extremities and weakness with ‘‘reduced voluntary control of the lower abdominal action, sphincter control, and locomotion.” They were treated by careful nursing, placed on a convex gas-pipe stretching frame, followed by the wearing of a leather ccrset and the practice of prescribed exercises. Marked improvement was the result.

In the course of the discussion that followed, Dr. R. H. Sayer, New York, stated that he has treated several such cases during the last twenty years.

The paper in full appears in the Journal of the American Medical Association, issue of September 9th, 1916.

The following article is a reprint in condensed form from the Journal of the Am. ]$ed. Assoc. Sept. 9, 1916. The citations of individual cases are here emitted.

The Heart and Active Service.

TREATMENT OF CONVALESCENT SOLDIERS AT HEATON PARK*

H. J. SEEUWEN, M. D.

MANCHESTER, ENGLAN.

In January last at a meeting of the Royal Society of Medicine, Sir James MacKenzie opened a discussion on the ‘‘Soldier’s Heart”. His paper was interesting, as wras the discussion which followed. A few' weeks afterward, Dr. R. N. Wilson, his assistant, paid a visit to our command depot at Heaton Park. He examined a great number of our men affected by heart troubles.

After his visit, Major R. Tait MacKenzie arranged for me to give electrical treatment to a selected group of those men. I took some sixty of the most serious cases of heart troubles. All of these men were at the same time given daily open air exercises by Major MacKenzie’s method, which included gymnastic training and route marches.

The physical training includes two divisions, the light and the full training. The first consists of slow movements of limbs and trunk, and some deep breathing exercises; in the second division we find all the movements much more vigorous, much quicker and also running and jumping. For the route marches we have the light one, which is only a walk at an easy pace for about two miles; the full route march is a sharp w alk, in quick time, for from half an hour to an hour, usually with a band of music.

* This paper was forwarded by Dr. R. Tait McKenaie (of Philadelphia), who is now a Major in the R. A. M. C. He says that “Dr. Seeuwen was a prominent practitioner in Ostend and with his family has been living in Manchester until I was fortunate enough to secure him for my staff here.”

Digitized by LjOOQle
324

I made a daily application with the faradic current, the only form of medical electricity for the time being at our disposition.

The history of most of these men corresponds closely with those related in the articles of MacKenzie, Wilson and others. Wounds (20 per cent, were wounded), shell shock, excessive work, exhaustion and nervous strain are common factors. Debility following infection by sore throats, measles, dysentery, typhoid and malaria were found in about 25 per cent.

When I carefully scrutinized all those young men’s pathologic history I could in more than 50 per cent, trace some old standing lesions, or some weakness, or at least a want of energy of the heart. Some of them had suffered years before they enlisted from palpitation, or breathlessness, after any strong effort, such as a run, or emotional disturbance. Others had been suffering from attacks of rheumatism (with or without heart troubles); others had hyperthyroidism, and others had suffered habitually, in winter, from cold hands and feet or other vasomotor disturbances. I asked all those men if they could play football or other exhausting games before they enlisted. Only five or six out of the sixty men were athletes.

Another very important factor is the probability of infections by bad teeth. Out of those sixty men, only eight presented a healthy denture. Is this not one which we must expect to find a very frequent cause not only of “soldier’s heart,” but also of rheumatism, or what is commonly called rheumatism, of dysentery, typhoid, goiter, and many other infections which find a well prepared soil in bodies which have had digestive troubles through defective teeth? In those cases the alimentary tract is the first affected, but afterward the central nervous system suffers, and all kinds of nervous symptoms may well be produced.

Dr. Wilson called my attention to the great number of big necks presented by the men he examined. The thyroid gland is often hypertrophied (25 per cent, presented a big neck). Is it due to infection and autointoxication? In a great number of cases, I think it is. During some ten months, with Dr. A. E. Barclay in the Roentgen-ray department at the Manchester Royal Infirmary, I saw a great number of simple and exophthalmic goiters, and we found very few of those patients—nearly all women—with a healthy denture.

What about spirits and tobacco, of which Dr. Poynton spoke? I think in a few cases they may be adjuncts, especially tobacco used in cigarets when smoke is inhaled. Some of these boys are smoking and drinking more than they did before they were soldiers. Nevertheless only five out of the sixty men were smoking over an average of ten cigarets a day, and most of them smoked only half that quantity.

Here are the results obtained after two months of the above mentioned treatment:

All the men were put as soon as possible on daily light physical training and the light route march. Most of them could stand completely or partially both those exercises, whose duration was half an hour each.

All those men were examined very often during the exercises and also some hours afterward. Ten per cent of the patients could not stand the light exercises at all at first.

Fifty per cent, could stand the light exercises but not the full. The other forty per cent, by daily treatment, improved more or less quickly and could soon stand the full course of gymnastics and marching.

Those men who could not stand the exercise complained of excessive fatigue, ofjpalpitations, of pain over the left che3t, of breathlessness, and most of them

Digitized by v^ooQle
325

presented a high pulse rate, often 30 cr 40 mere teats persisting cne cr mere days afterward.

Seme men who could stand the light exercises without ary trouble were submitted again and again to ti e fill oeicises sre e; eh t me the efferent symptoms came back.

The electrical treatment consisted of a daily faradizaticn with a light current— of long wired coil—ever the thyroid glar.d and the heart. This treatment is often used on the continent for exophthalmic goiter. It consists in an application with two tampons fo* three or four minutes cn the thyroid, followed by three or four minutes with one tampen over the hca.it ngien, the ether in the neck. This kind of current has a marked sedative action, but is criy local. The static current may do as well and prchably better. The static current is a first class tonic cn the general nervous system, and local applications ever the heart region may also be given through the static efbuve cr breeze.

Deep applications cf the Fcer.tgen lays cn the thyroid gland may also be very useful, especially cn those men with hypeitrcphied thyroids (25 per cent, out of the total). Dr. Florence Stcney has described this treatment, and obtains good results. Rcentgen rays are ceitainly er.e cf the best treatments we have now for exophthalmic goiter. Tachycardia, excessive sweating, and nervous uneasiness are the symptoms which are the most quickly and completely removed.

As the result of an average cf two months’ treatment, cut cf the sixty men, fourteen were quite fit and have returned to their unit; four ctheis aie ft snd will return in a few days; others are cn full physical training and will be ft n a short time; over a third, cr 35 per cent., will be able to return to the bring line. From 10 to 15 per cent, have to be discharged; the ether 50 per cent, of the men have improved and may be able to do heme service.

These first results are very encouraging, and in the summer menths I think we can do better. Outdoor life is easier; gardening, open air games, like bowling, quoits, rowing and swimming, may hasten the cure, while treatment with the Roentgen ray, static electricity, and also hydrotherapy will greatly augment our percentage of recoveries.

Teaching Massage to Blinded Soldiers.—An exchange states that two schools have been organized in France for this purpose. Cne is in charge of Dr. Guilbert who has long been blind himself. A goed knowledge cf anatemy is a prerequisite, and a set of relief charts have been made by eminent sculptors to aid in teaching anatemy to the blind. The men work alternately as masseurs and as subjects. Our exchange remarks further that the use cf the metal casques has materially reduced the proportion of cases of injury of the eyes.

Physical Training Program Adopted.—The state beard of regents, while in session at Syracuse, gave its unanimous approval of the physical training program for the schools of the state, as recommended by the state military training commission. This program calls for all the minimum time to be devoted to physical training in the schools which is prescribed by law, that is, an average of twenty minutes a day, or 100 minutes a week. The general plan is the most comprehensive health education and physical training program ever adopted by a state. A statement issued by the regents shows that every feature is already in successful operation in some of the most progressive schools of the state.—From Medical News in The Journal A. M. A., Sept. 23, 1916.

Digitized by LjOOQle
326

In a paper read to the Section on Preventive Medicine and Public Health at the last convention of the A. M. A. at Detroit Dr. B. S. Warren, Surgeon, U. S. Public Health Service, Washington, D. C. among other things says in defence of “Health Insurance, Its Relation to the National Health”:

“Tne people of the United States are beginning to wake up to the fact that health is no longer a matter for individual concern alone, but is one for collective action on the part of all persons or groups of persons responsible for conditions affecting health. Wnen this idea of the necessity for collective action is thoroughly understood, and it is realized that instead of weakening individual endeavor it will make the individual stronger by making him more economically independent, the American people a-e going to demand that the responsibility of disease-causing conditions be fixed and that this matter of sickness be provided for in a businesslike way and no longer lefc to haphazard methods.

“It was not so long ago that the matter of public schools was opposed on the grounds that the idea was too paternalistic in character and too antagonistic to American ideals and principles. Nov the richest and highest in the social scale are sending their children to the public schools. Tne question of health is more a matter of public concern than the question of education.”

Relation of the Federal GMerriment to Health.—Health is not only a matter for state concern but one for federal consideration as well. It is not only a federal question under the “general welfare clauses” of the constitution, but also one under the “interstate commerce clause,” since disease is not confined by state lines.

At present those interested in remedial proposals are confining their effort to health insurance for industrial worke-s, and there are many reasons for believing that this will be the next big step in this field and that the day of this achievement is near at hand. Such expectation is encouraged by the fact that thirty-four states and territories have enacted workmen’s compensation laws within the last few years, tnat measures for health insurance have been introduced into three state legislatures, that two states have created a commission to study social insurance, and tiat measures to create such commissions are pending in Congress and one state legislature.

The time is therefore at hand wnen all health agencies and health officials should study this subject of health insurance. Above all there would be a financial incentive given, to each interested group to prevent sickness.

Tne employer wio found tut he was containuting mere per employee per year than his competitor would doubsless inquire into tne cause of the difference.

The employee who learned that his neighbor working in the same kind of trade was paying less dues than himself would also be very likely to inquire into the cause of the difference.

The doctor who found his patients were sick so much that he was not able to attend as many insured persons as his brother doctor w>uld have a financial incentive to look into the cause of the di.f erenee and remove it.

The city or town wnich found that a neighboring city or town was providing adequate hospital and dispensary treatment for its insured persons, and not only obtaining more efficient diagnosis and treatment but obtaining it at a les3 cost, would doubtless establish similar institutions.

The state which found from the returns that its tax rate for sickness was in^excass of a neighboring state would have reason for making this an issue in the yiext election.

The ‘United Spates Public Health Service, whei the reports, fe: example, showedJa marked diffeience in the sicx rate of aa iron and steel town in Pem-

Digitized by LjOOQle
327

sylvania as compared with such a town in Alabama, would be very likely to order the responsible officers to Washington to explain the differences.

The final result would be that health would be placed on a competitive basis in the political and business worlds: this, too, after providing for the cooperation of all interested groups through the health insurance administration so that all the agencies for the promotion of health would work in harmony, forming one complete health machine.

To provide a ‘‘health insurance system” simply as a relief measure without adequate preventive features would be a blunder; but enacted together with a comprehensive plan for the prevention of disease, there is every reason to believe that it would prove to be a measure of extraordinary value in improving the health and efficiency of the 30,000,000 wage earners in the United States.—Abstracted from The Journal Am. Med. Assic. Sept. 30, 1916.

The Health of Workingmen.—The United States Bureau of Mines, which heretofore has been mainly interested in the reduction of deaths by accidents among men connected with the mine industries, has broadened its scope to include'the health of the men and has issued a report on health conservation at steel mills. This report contains advice of direct value to every laborer and employer of labor in the United States. The efficiency of the workmen is a subject which no operator can afford to ignore. The prevention of conditions productive of ill health is a plain business proposition. The workingman has a right to demand that he be not required to work beside men who are physically or mentally diseased. Medical supervision is necessary in order to prevent the introduction and spread of infectious or contagious diseases. Such supervision will also show defects of which employees are unaware. Large corporations should employ a full-time physician who should devote his entire attention to the study of efficiency problems. By care along these lines the average loss of time due to illness among 30,000,000 workers in the United States, estimated at nine days a year, or a loss of nearly $880,000,000 may be materially decreased.

In this rapid high tension age the physician should be as energetic in teaching prevention of arterial hypertension as he is in preventing contagion. As infectious diseases are reduced in frequency, more patients live to die of diseases later in life, and (as previously stated) diseases with hypertension are on the increase. It is therefore the duty of the physician to urge youths and adults to abstain from all kinds of excesses so common in this age. We live at such speed, even the children, that this caution is almost daily needed. We must caution against severe athletic competition, against personal “stunts,” against recreation excesses, even goffing, automobiling, and dancing, against excess in the use of tobacco, in eating, in late dinners, in coffee, tea and alcohol. The most important of all treatment for hypertension is rest. That means for an individual, well except for his hypertension, a vacation, that is, a rest from physical and mental labor. For a patient who is in serious trouble from hypertension, bed rest is the most important element in the management. As has been previously shown, good sleep lowers the blood pressure, and Brooks and Carroll showed that the greatest drop in blood pressure occurs in the first part of the night’s sleep. In other words, a patient who lies awake long loses the best part of his night’s rest as far as his circulation is concerned. This is one more reason for abstinence from tea and coffee in the evening by those patients who are at all disturbed by the caffein.—“Therapeutics”. From The Journal A. M. A.

Digitized by v^ooQle
328

Tuberculosis and the Schools.—L. Jeanneret declares that it is at school and by the school that society can root out tuberculosis. The physician has not only the right, it is his duty to utilize the school because it is here only that effectual prophylaxis can be applied. If there is no case of open tuberculosis in the environment, the infant may escape infection. Between 3 and 5 the lymphatic glands- arrest any tubercle bacilli entering the organism. This localization in the glands may be the extent of the tuberculosis invasion. The child is not diseased, he is merely tuberculized, sensitized. The organism keeps on the defensive and gives a positive response to the tuberculin tests all through life, up to advanced * age, testifying to >a relative immunity. We can assume that practically every child is infected before it reaches 15. It is our task to distinguish between those who are holding their tubercle bacilli harmlessly imprisoned in their glands, and those whose bacilli are more active and flood the blood stream now and then with their toxins. The child does not develop, normally, looks frail and the digestion is deranged, gastric anachlorhydria leading to intestinal trouble. These tuberculises evolutifs are the candidates for phthisis in later life.

Jeanneret emphasizes that tuberculosis in schoolchildren is always “closed.” The children do not infect each other. They contract the disease in their homes or from the teacher. Every schoolchild should have his health chart, the fiche sanitaire. On this should be recorded his weight every month and his height twice a year. The weight divided by the height gives a reliable index of the physiologic bafance. The health chart should also record the tint of the mucous membranes, and whether the child is pale or ruddy, a good or bad student, and likewise any complaints or anomaly that may be noticed. The Pirquet skin test is indispensable. Once positive, it need not be repeated but, if negative, it should be repeated once a year. With health cards like this, kept up to date, the children with evolving tuberculosis are automatically sifted out, and these require closer examination, including roentgenoscopy.

Jeanneret regards sunlight as the great regenerator in childhood. He has the children's gymnastic work done in the open sunlight, the children stripped to the waist. This idea of exercising with the upper part of the body exposed to the air has spread until now the Swiss soldiers systematically exercise in this way. He adds that gymnastic exercise for children from 6 to 12 should be predominantly thoracic. The child has special need of oxygen, and the only means to increase the supply of oxygen is by developing the respiratory function by gymnastic exercises of the chest. This develops the chest and lungs, keeps the costal articulations flexible, and thus materially : educes the predisposition to tuberculosis. Training of deafmutes in phonetic exercises has aided much in reducing the predisposition to tuberculosis in this group. Fully an hour in the course of the day should be devoted to gymnastic exercises in every school. He describes ten basic exercises: one is to place the hands on the abdomen, the forefingers meeting at the umbilicus. Take a slow deep breath, pressing on the abdomen, then releasing it under slow expiration. The exercises with the arms and trunk are done to correspond with deep inspiration, letting the arms fall or raising the trunk during expiration. The last exercise on his list is bending forward until the palms can touch the floor, then raise the body during inspiration and bend over again during expiration.—Abstracted by “The Journal A. M.

A.” from the Revue Medicate de la Suisse Romande, Geneva, August, XXXVI. {Tuberculose et ecole.) L. Jeanneret.

Digitized by ^ooQle
329

The Role of Books in Spreading Infection.—Libraries and school authorities in cities that supply children with books from a common stock, as well as those who use such books, should be interested in a recent laboratory investigation of books as possible vehicles of disease. In this investigation three approaches were made to the subject:	(1)	an	investigation	of seventy-five soiled

and torn library books that for several years had been passing through the hands of children who were living under most undesirable sanitary conditions; (2) a search for diphtheria bacilli on 150 books that were known to have been handled by persons ill with diphtheria, and (3) a study of books artificially contaminated with Bacillus coli, B. typhosus, and B. diphtheriae. In the case of the seventy-five library books, the only organism found suggestive of danger was the colon bacillus, in two instances only; here the fact is pointed out that#, typhosus differs very little in viability from B. coli and would, if lodged on a book, persist almost equally long. The search for diphtheria bacilli on the 150 books handled by diphtheria patients failed to disclose the organism in a single instance. In this connection the investigator adds the results of a brief and inconclusive study of books open to contamination with tuberculosis to the results of a more extensive investigation by Kenwood and Dove, quoting them as follows:	*'‘There is

probably no material risk involved in the reissue of books recently read by consumptives, unless the books are obviously soiled. Even then the risks are slight.” The books artificially contaminated by rubbing them, inside and outside, with cotton swabs saturated with broth suspensions of the organisms studied, were held at room temperature under various conditions: dry in diffuse daylight and moist in diffuse daylight; dry in darkness and moist in darkness; at low temperature, and exposed to direct sunlight. It was found that#, coli, B. typhosus and

B.	diphtheriae on the inside of books remained alive and virulent for months, and also on the outside of books when they were kept in the dark. Exposed to diffuse daylight, B. typhosus and B. diphtheriae survived not more than twelve days, while direct sunlight killed within a few hours. It is clear that while in the course of natural contamination books do not offer a favorable ground for the lodgment and growth of bacteria, yet in view of the fact thatB. typhosus and B. diphtheriae have been found alive and virulent after the lapse of months under the conditions mentioned, it would be safest if books handled by patients were thoroughly disinfected. Direct sunlight appears to be as efficient and ready an agent here as elsewhere.—Current Comment Jour. A. M. A. July 8, 1916.

Exercise.—This forms a valuable adjunct in the treatment of diabetes. It serves to raise the carbohydrate tolerance and to build up active protoplasmic tissue at the expense of fat. In addition, the patients who exercise feel better and take more interest in life. The appetite is increased, but the increase is not • greater than the increased assimilative power. Allen advises active exercise for practically all diabetics. Strong patients may begin exercise during the preliminary fasting period; weaker ones, during the period of dieting. Exercise is especially advantageous immediately following a meal containing carbohydrate. Short periods of vigorous exercise are preferable to long continued monotonous walks. The patient should stop just short of uncomfortable fatigue. In children, exercise is of especial benefit, as it aids in the building up of muscular tissue and favorably influences growth.—From “Therapeutics”.—The Journal A. M. A.

Digitized by boodle
-————■—	Q

ATHLBTIO NOTES

By E. HAUG, Dewitt Clinton High School New York City.

ATHLETICS RAISE THE STANDARD OF STUDENTS.

The steady growth and physical development of students entering Harvard in the last thirty-five years is attributed in a large measure to the athletics and gymnastics fostered by the secondary schools of America by Dr. Dudley A. Sargent, director of the Harvard gymnasium.

Since 1880 the average Harvard student has gained one inch in height, five pounds in weight, and 160 points in the standard strength test of the university. In an article contributed to the Harvard Alumni Bulletin Dr. Sargent praises general athletics in schools and colleges, but also points out dangers which beset the present course of conduct.

‘ Dr. Sargent’s article in the Harvard magazine is in part as follows:

“Most men can put forth greater effort and fight harder when they are fighting mad than when they are coolly indifferent. A recognition of this fact yvill perhaps account for the savage tongue lashing and brutal harangues sometimes administered to a dispirited football team between the halves of an important game. However peace loving we may be disposed to be as individual members of a community or nation, we are never on so high a plane physiologically or organically as when we are fighting for our existence. This is the supreme physical condition realized to a greater or less degree by everyone who enters a struggle for athletic supremacy.

“In 1880 the average student at Harvard University, including all classes, was 67.7 inches in height and weighing 135.2 pounds—with a strength test of 490 points. To-day the average academic student entering Harvard is 68.7 inches in height, 140 pounds in weight and has a strength test of 650 points. The athletes who make the major teams will average about one inch more in height, ten pounds more in weight, with a strength test ranging from 700 to 1,000 points, according to the sports they enter.

“In 1880 only fifty per cent of the Harvard students would have surpassed the height and weight of the average American in the Civil War. To-day more than sixty-five per cent would pass that standard. This is a most remarkable uplift in growth and development for any considerable body of men in any country and community to have attained in twenty-five years. These results are not only glowing tributes to the advantages of athletics and general gymnastics in our secondary schools, but also to the instructors and coaches who have brought these young men to such a high state of physical perfection.

“I think I could show that athletics as at present conducted in most of our schools and colleges are for social rather than educational purposes, and the reasons why they are cultivated in some institutions for general physical training are economic rather than scientific. For instance, if Harvard should do away with all gate receipts and pay all the expenses of conducting her present system of athletics from the college treasury it would require the interest on considerably more than $2,000,000 annually to meet the cost. The cost is now borne by the students and their friends.

Digitized by LjOOQle
NEW SWIMMING RECORDS.

Past Season Yielded More Than In AnyOther Year.

The outdoor swimming season just closed yielded the most bountiful crop of national and world’s records ever reaped in any country in one year. At nearly every regulation distance both men and women hung up new figures, as may be noted from the following list of performances, for which record brackets will be claimed at the annual meeting of the A. A. U. authorities next month:

Free Style.

*80 yards, 60-foot pool, 0:42 1-5, Duke Kahanamoku, in Honolulu, Aug. 20.

*100 yards, 60-foot pool, 0:53 3-5, Duke Kahanamoku, in Honolulu, July 23.

*440 yards, 110-yard course, 5:27, Norman Ross, at Ocean Park, Cal., Aug. 20.

*440 yards, 100-yard course, 5:28, Ludy Langer, in Honolulu, Sept. 2.

*500 yards, 100-yard course, 6:11 2-5, Ludy Langer, in Honolulu, Sept. 2.

*500 meters, 75-foot pool, 6:51 3-5, Herbert Vollmer, in New York, July 19.

*880 yards, 100-yard course, 11:29 3-5, Ludy Langer, in Honolulu, Sept. 6.

*880 yards, 110-yard course, 11:25, Ludy Langer, Ocean Park, Cal., Aug. 20.

*1,000 yards, 100-yard course, 13:07, Ludy Langer, in Honolulu, Sept. 6.

*One mile, 110-yard course, 23:11, Ludy Langer, at Ocean Park, Cal., Aug. 20.

Swimming on the Back.

*100 yards, straightaway, 1:14 1-5, Harold Kruger, in Honolulu, Sept. 6.

Breast Stroke Swimming.

*100 yards, straightaway, 1:13 1-5, Michael McDermott, in Chicago, Aug. 19.

Relay Racing.

*400 yards, four men, 60-foot pool, 3:44 3-5, D. Kahanamoku, G. Cunna,

C.	Lane, H. Kruger, in Honolulu, July 23.

*500 yards, five men, 60-foot pool, 4:43 3-5, same men and J. Kelii, in Honolulu, July 23.

*500 yards, five men, 100-yard course, 5:04 3-5, P. McGillivray, H. Hebner, A. Raithel, W. Vosburgh, A. Siegel, in Chicago, Aug. 19.

Notable Performances.

Sixteen miles, across tide, 8 h. 42 m., Charles Durborrow, i.i Chesapeake Bay, June 24.

Thirty-six miles, with tide, 13 h. 30 m., Charles Durborrow, in Delaware River, Sept. 10.

Women, Free Style.

*50 yards, 60-foot pool, 0:30 1-5, Miss Olga Dorfner, in Philadelphia, June 11.

100 yards, 75-yard pool, 1:08 4-5, Miss Olga Dorfner, in San Francisco, July 4.

440 yards, 110-yard course, 7:20, Miss Claire Galligan, at Rye, N. Y., Sept. 9. *

* All the performances marked with a star actually represent world’s records for the conditions, but those made over courses shorter than seventy-five feet will be tabled only as American standards, as the International Federation for Swimmers will not consider them.

Digitized v^ooQle
332

880 yards, 168-foot pool, 16:08 3-5, Mi3s Thelma Darby, in St. Louis, Aug. 26 880 yards, 110-yard course, 15:15 3-5, Miss Claire Galligan, at Rye, N. Y., Sept. 2.

One mile, 110-yard course, 31:19 3-5, Miss Claire Galligan, at Rye, N. Y Sept. 2.

Noteworthy Performances.

Four miles, Mississippi Marathon course, 51:26, Miss Claire Galligan, in St. Louis, Aug. 20.

Twenty-six miles, with tide, 11 h. 8 m. 41 3-5 s., Mis3 Anna Kean, in Delaware River, Sept. 18. *

ALL AROUND CHAMPIONSHIP.

Avery Brundage, Chicago A. A., recently won the all Around Championship of the A. A. U. at Weequahic Park, Newark* N. J. Following is the Summary and Order of Finish:

One Hundred Yard Dash.—First heat won by F. Kelly, Los Angeles A. C. (874); second, E. Thomson, Los Angeles, A. C. (841.1); third, R. Nash, N. Y. A. C. (478). Time 10 2-5s. Second heat won by A. Brundage, Chicago A. A. (748); second, A. W. Richards, unattached (724.2); third, P. O'Connor, I. A. A. C. (710.9); fourth, R. Bagnard, Los Angeles A. C. (624.1). Time, 11s.

Putting the Sixteen Pound Shot.—Won by Richards (797), 42 ft. 9 1-4 in.; second, Brundage (717), 41 ft. 1 1-4 in.; third, Bagnard (715 1-2), 41 ft. 7-8 in.; fourth, Kelly (539), 37 ft. 4 3-4 in.; fifth, O'Connor (460), 35 ft. 9 in.; sixth, Nash (440]l-2), 35 ft. 4 1-8 in.; seventh, Thomson (293), 32 ft. 3 1-4 in.

Running High Jump.—Won by Richards (796), 5 ft. 9 3-8 in.; second, Thomson (692), 5 ft. 6 5-8 in.; third, Brundage (628), 5 ft. 4 5-8 in.; fourth, Bagnard (628), 5 ft. 4 5-8 in.; fifth, O'Connor (556), 5 ft. 2 3-8 in.; sixth, Nash (556), 5 ft. 2 3-8 in.; seventh, Kelly (484), 5 ft. 1-8 in.

Half Mile Walk.—Won by Brundage (695), 4m. 3 2-5s.; second, O’Connor, (671), 4m. 8 l-5s.; third, Nash (635), 4m. 15 2-5s.; fourth, Thomson (620), 4m. 18 2-5s.; fifth, Richards (585), 4m. 25 2-5s.; sixth, Bagnard (506), 4m. 41 l-5s.; seventh, Kelly (500), 4m. 42 2-5s.

Throwing Sixteen Pound Hammer.—Won by Brundage (765.25), 125 ft. 6 1-4 in.; second, Richards (542), 106 ft. 11 in.; third, O'Connor (486.875), 102 ft. 3 7-8 in.; fourth, Kelly (475.625), 101 ft. 4 5-8 in.; fifth, Nash (383.375), 93 ft 8 3-8 in.; sixth, Bagnard (331.5), 89 ft. 4 1-2 in.; seventh, Thomson (189.5), 77 ft. 6 1-2 in.

Pole Vault.—Won by Richards (904), 11 ft. 3 in.; second, Bagnard (760), 10 ft. 6 in.; third, Brundage (664), 10 ft., and Thomson (664), 10 ft.; fifth, Nash (472), 9 ft.; sixth, Kelly (376), 8 ft. 6 in.; seventh, O'Connor (280), 8 ft.

One Hundred and Twenty Yard High Hurdles.—First heat—Won by Thomson, (1,060), 15 l-5s.; second, Kelly (1,057 1-2), 15 2-5s.; Second heat—Won by Brundage (730), 17 2-5s.; second, Richards (no points, disqualified for knocking down three hurdles), 21 l-5s. Third heat—Won by O'Connor (640), 18s.; second, Bagnard (457.5), 20 2-5s.; third, Nash (392.5), 21 l-5s.

Throwing Fifty-six Pound Weight.—Won by Richards (640 1-2), 28 ft. 4 1-8 in.; second, Kelly (486 1-2), 25 ft. 5 1-8 in.; third, Nash (421), 23 ft. 9 1-4 in.; fourth, O'Connor, (395), 23 ft. 23-4in.; fifth, Brundage (306 1-2), 21 ft. 4 5-8in.; sixth, Bagnard (2751-2), 20 ft. 8 7-8 in.; seventh, Thomson (261 1-2), 20 ft. 5 3-8 in.

Running Broad Jump.—Won by Thomson (746), 20 ft. 10 3-4 in.; second,

Digitized by v^ooQie
333

O’Connor (729), 20 ft. 8 5-8 in.; third, Erundage (722), 20 ft. 7 3-4 in.; fourth, Richards, (€84), 20 ft. 3 in.; fifth, Kelly (658), 19 ft. 11 3-4 in.; sixth, Nash (563), 19 ft. 2 3-8 in.; seventh, Bagnard (595), 18 ft. 9 5-8 in.

Cr.e Mile Rim—Won by O'Conner (660), 5m. 25 4-5s.; second, Thomson (594), 5m. 39s.; third, Kelly (531), 5m. 51 3-5s.; fourth, Brundage (493), 5m. 59 l-5s.; fifth, Nash (452), 6m. 7 2-5s.

Order of Finish.

1— Avery Erundage, Chicago A. A..................................6468.750

2— Fred W. Kelly, Los Angeles A. C...............................5981.625

3— Earl Thomson, Los Angeles A. C................................5961.100

4—	A. W. Richards, unattached..................................5672.700

5—	P. O’Connor, I. A. A. C.....................................5588.775

6—	Robert Nash, N. Y. A. C.....................................5083.375

7—	Roy Bagnard, Los Angeles A. C...............................4843.100

Latest New Records that replace the Old.

440 yd. Dash—47 2-5 sec. by Ted. Meredith, U. of. P.

1-2 Mile Run—1 min. 53 sec. by Ted. Meredith, U. of P.

120 yd. High Hurdles—15 sec. by Fred Murray, Leland Stanford.

A new world’s record in baseball was set by the New York Giants during the season just closed by winning 26 straight victories. Fcimer straight victories in Major Leagues are Frovidence Gra>s, 20 stra;ght in 1884 and Chicago White Sox 19 straight in 1906.

Fred W. Kelly, of the Los Angeles A. C. recently won the A. A. U. Pentathlon Championship in the annual A. A. U. Championship Games at ^Travers Island, New York.

The summaries of the contests follow:—

Pentathlon.

Running Eroad Jump.—Wen by Fred W. Kelly, Los Angeles A. C., 21 ft. 2 1-4 in.; second, Fatrick O’Connor, Irish-American A. C., and Daniel Shea Pastime A. C., 20 ft. 7 1-2 in.; fourth, Robert Nash, New York, A.C., 19 ft. 1 in.; fifth, Henry S. Throne, unattached, 19 ft.; sixth, Hector Auray, New Haven, A. A., 18 ft. 10 1-4 in.

Throwing the Javelin.—Wen by Fred W. Kelly, 131 ft. 3 in.; second, P. O’Connor, 125 ft. 2 in.; third, R. Nash, 119 ft. 5 in.; fourth, D. Shea, 108 ft. 2 1-2 in.; fifth, H. S. Thorne, 107 ft. 7 in.; sixth, Hector Auray, 98 ft. 3-4 in.

Two Hundred Metre Run.—First heat—Won by Shea, 24 2-5s.; second O’Connor, 25 l-5s.; third, Nash, 25 4-5s. Second beat—Wen by Kelly, 22 3-5s.; second, Auray, 22 4-5s.; third, Throne, 24 2-5s.

Throwing the Discus.—Won by O’Connor, 118 ft. 5 in.; second, Kelly, 1C5 ft. 4 3-4 in.; third. Shea, 95 ft. 5 3-4 in.; fourth, Thorne, 85 ft. 10 3-4 in.; fifth, Nash, 86 ft. 1 1-4 in.; sixth, Auray, 48 ft.

Fifteen Hundred Metre Run.—Won by Auray; second, O’Connor; third, Sica; fourth, Kelly; fifth, Thorne. Time, 4m. 39 l-5s.

Feints:—Kelly, 9; O’Conner, 12; Shea, 16; Auray, 21; Thorne, 23.

Miss Maude Devereaux, of Ludlow, Vt. recently created a new record for the running broad jump by covering a distance of 16 ft. 9 1-2 in. breaking the former record of 16 ft. 5 in.

Digitized by v^ooQle
O’

o

NOTES AND OOBOBOBNT8

O'

AN INVESTMENT THAT PAYS.

Tennis is over with for the year. Golf is about at an end. The great, open out-of-doors which has been the training master to millions for some happy months is closing up its season. What are you going to do about it? You, Mr. Hard-working Man, who have sacrificed your few pounds of flesh to the healthful strain, and have received in exchange a tonic better than any drug in the Pharmacopoeia, are you going, now that winter draws on, to let your hard muscles soften, your clear eye dull, your quickened vitality slump and slacken? If so, don’t blame Providence or the weather because you fall a prey to tonsilitis or grip, or find yourself presently wincing from the tweaks of rheumatism, or hobble forth next spring feeling somewhat more than a thousand years old. It’s all your own fault. You will have wasted capital; the capital of bodily and nervous force which you have laid up for yourself by your summer’s exercise. Why not keep it up in the winter? Surely there is some sort of gymnastic opportunity in your town—club or squash or handball court, or Young Men’s Christian Association or a Turnverein gymnasium. If there isn’t, there ought to be. Get busy and start one. Indoor exercise may not be as enlivening or quite as beneficial as outdoor play, but it is an incalculable number of times better than none at all. Of course there is the familiar can’t-afford-the-time argument; but the man who advances this plea is usually the man who, about February, takes three weeks off to go to the hospital with stomach trouble, or gets invalided off to a sanitarium to recuperate his depleted nerves. Three hours a week in a gymnasium isn’t very much time to expend. Five is better; but three, conscientiously adhered to, will keep the average man going and enable him to get through his winter’s work in sound condition. Give it a trial. It isn’t an amusement only: ic’s an investment.—Exchange.

Here is another report upon the effect of different kinds of air upon the efficiency of school children. According to this experiment “washed and recirculated air compares favorably with fresh air” so far as school progress is concerned. But, it also costs more.

Here is the report:	Continued	experiments with washed, recirculated air

and with fresh outdoor air in one of the Bronx, New York, schools indicate that as good progress is made by children subjected to partly recirculated air as by those provided with a liberal supply of outside air. The rate of improvement recorded by both groups is decisive, but the advantage is with the children supplied with washed, recirculated air.

The experiment was conducted under the auspices of the New York State Commission on Ventilation at Public School 51, Bronx, and covered two classes for two terms, Professors Edward L. Thorndike and G. J. Ruger3 of the Teachers’ College being in charge.

Tests were given the children in addition, canceling numbers, canceling letters, and finding and copying addresses, and the results in both experiments showed an advantage in favor of the recirculated air group over the fresh air group. In the first experiment the recirculated air group gained 298.8, and the fresh air group 192.2. To the second experiment the relative figures were 191.2 and 184.8.

Digitized by

Google
335

With the opening of the 1916 -1917 session, finding all but one out of twenty graduates with positions, the Physical Education Department of the State Normal School of La Crosse, Wisconsin, began its fourth season with thirty-nine freshmen, and about the same number of juniors and seniors.

Dr. Carl B. Sputh for the past three years the head of the department is being assisted by Miss Leanora Thompson and Mr. Gustave Heineman of last year. Due to the growth of the course, Miss Magdaline Harmacek, a graduate of the 1913 Physical Education Class of the La Crosse, Normal and Mr. Raymond Keeler, the old Wisconsin football star, have been added to the faculty.

The season’s activities opened with the junior-senior recaption to the freshmen on September 23rd. This was in the form of a dance and an initiation of the freshmen.

On September 25tli the first Physical Education Club Meeting was held. The following officers were elected:—

President—Harry Grausnick.

Vice-President—Helen Keith.

Treasurer—Clinton Immell.

Secretary—Vivian Nelson.

On the football field we have three*teams, all working to make the first eleven.

On Oct. 13th Dr. Carl B. Sputh attended the Central Wisconsin Teacher’s Convention at Wausau where he read a paper on “Organized Play.”

Vivian Nelson,

Secretary.

BOOK REVIEW.

“Rules or Recovery from Pulmonary Tuberculosis.” A Layman’s Handbook on Treatment. By Lawrason Brown, M. D., of Saranac Lake, N. Y. Second edition, revised and enlarged. 5 by 7 inches, 184 pages. Cloth, $1.25 net. Lea & Febiger, Publishers, Philadelphia and New York, 1916.

Physical education teachers will be glad to know that this is a book that can be recommended heartily. The book will be of interest not only to those suffering from consumption, but to any one who cares for a clear presentation of the effects of rest, food, fresh air and exercise.

“How Girls Can Help Their Country.” A Handbook for Girl Scouts by Juliette Low. 156 pages 4 1-2 by 6 1-2 inches. Published by the National Girl Scouts, 17 West 42nd St., New York City. Price, 50 cents.

The book will be of great value to societies, schools, churches, etc., organizing girls into scout troops.

“Boyology”, by H. W. Gibson. 294 pages, 4 1-2 by 7 inches. Published by the Association Press, 124 E. 28 St., New York City, Price $1.00.

In the introduction Mr. Gibson states that the book is a presentation of the lectures he has held before many associations on Boylife. In 13 chapters the author analyses and interprets boy life in a fascinating manner. The book is recommended to all who wish to understand that strange animal—a growing boy. “The Body Builder”, by B. Deane Brink. 113 pages, 5 by 7 1-2 inches. Published by the Association Press, 124 E. 28 St., New York City. Price $1.00.

The book is a collection of drills as well as of health hints by the pioneer in the physical education work of the Young Men’s Christian Associations, Mr. Robert J. Roberts. An introduction by Dr. Gulick, and many words of hearty

Digitized by v^ooQle
336

appreciation by many fellow workers of Mr. Roberts give added value to a book that will be of more than ordinary interest to all teachers.

“Life Saving”, by George E. Goss. 152 pages, 5 by 7 inches. Published by the Association Press, 124 E. 28 St., New York City. Price $1.00.

This title book, with its 60 halftone illustrations, is one of the best books in the market on the subject of life saving. Its methods of mass instruction make it particularly valuable to institutions where mass instruction methods must be used. In the chapter entitled “Essential Swimming strokes to use in Rescue work” there is an interesting statement to the effect that “the breast stroke is the only stroke that a rescuer can use when close to a struggling person, and be prepared at all times for an emergency.” The same open-minded saneness characterizes all other presentations of the material.

“Children’s Songs of City Life”, by Anna Phillips See and Sidney Dorlen Lowe. 63 pages, 7 1-2 by 10 inches. Published by A. S. Barnes Company, New York. Price $1.00.

In this volume the authors have collected the words and music of 27 songs that deal with city life. We find songs about the parade, the trolley car, the wind, the postman, etc., etc., which should be of great help to teachers looking for songs that might interpret his surroundings to the city child.

Mutual Responsibility.—No one class of society^can dissociate itself from another class, however low in the scale, and say that it has no duties and no responsibilities regarding it. “Men cannot live isolated,” says Carlyle; “we are all bound together for mutual good or mutual misery, as living nerves in the same body. No highest man can disunite himself from the lowest.”—Ashley, Infant Mortality.

Digitized by v^ooQie