LIBRARY

University of Montana

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 28	SEPTEMBER-OCTOBER, 1921	No.	301

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE TO. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 191&, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 18y9.

Qriginal articles and reprint

PRESENT DAY PROBLEMS IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

C. L. LOWMAN, M. D., LOS ANGELES, CAL.

As an interested observer and one closely associated with physical educational activities for seventeen years, I wish to call the attention of educators to some of the needs not filled by the present methods of teaching physical training. As an orthopaedic surgeon, I have had occasion during the past thirteen years to become intimately acquainted and associated with many physical directors from many schools, and consequently feel justified in commenting on their activities with the hope that these observations may lead to some constructive changes in university methods in this department.

The possibilities for physical directors were never brighter than they *

* While we agree heartily with the author so far as the trend of his article is concerned we must say that the better normal schools and colleges of physical education are doing much more along the lines indicated than Dr. Lowman gives them credit for. With our schools, as with others, it is all a matter of the amount of time at the disposal of the school. Good beginnings have been made. Based upon these it will easily be possible, if one or two additional years are added, to train the specialists spoken of.—Editor.

Digitized by Google
4

70S

are today. There never have been so many avenues of activity opening up for them. This, however, is a day of specializing, and in order te specialize in any one of a dozen branches in physical education it is perfectly obvious that preliminary education looking forward to these special branches must be given. At present there is not sufficient continuity of activity between the school life and the future position, except in the limited fields of recreational games and athletics, floor gymnastics, folk dancing and play ground work. There is, however, a gap between the school course and all specialized lines which are now open, and others which of necessity must open in the future to the student of physical training.

Chief among these specialized lines are the various branches using physiotherapeutic procedures.

(1)	Orthopaedic corrective work, both as an assistant to orthopaedic surgeons and in physiotherapy departments of orthopaedic institutions.

(2)	Speech disorder correction is a special field only just opening which furnishes another new and promising opportunity for the student who has had proper preliminary training which should include applied psychology, dramatic art, with special emphasis on the study of psychomotor activities. This work is so closely allied to special training of the motor apparatus that the properly qualified student of physical training is the logical one to develop it, although he must know and emphasize the psychological aspects as much or more than the physical phases of the work.

(3)	Reconstruction and rehabilitation of the human wreckage from industrial accidents and such injuries as are left from the carnage of the great war, also ofFer a new channel of activity for especially prepared students.

(4)	Physical welfare departments in connection with large industrial plants is another field which is still untilled. Social welfare is becoming an established part of such organizations, and certainly the establishment of physical training departments should not be far behind. Play grounds, recreation parks, and gymnasia are already in operation on some plan, but no special effort that I know of is being made in schools of physical education to give directors the special work which should underlie this type of activity. Workmen and women who have some natural and beneficial outlet and relaxation from mental and physical tensions will certainly be less prone to seek unnatural and detrimental forms of relief.

(0 Young Men’s Christian Associations, Young Women’s Christian Associations, Chautauquas, many religious bodies, Knights of Columbus, Jewish Welfare Departments, Red Cross, Boy Scouts, Camp Fire Gi Is, and many other phases of physical welfare work are needing workers whose training should make them of special value to these bodies. The value of pageantry with its various elements of dramatic and terpsichorean arts is being more and more seen and appreciated, both for its educational value in schools and for its usefulness in stimulating and welding community interests. The dramatization of the nation’s life and history, and the portrayal of primitive life and activities serve a valuable purpose in
7«T

keeping alive the impulses and instincts leading to motor expressions; these need to be preserved as much as the historical facts.

(6) Specialized physical training in institutions of the mentally handicapped and defective, opens up another avenue of action in the field of psychiatry and neurology, interest in which is slowly awakening. The remarkable results obtained by the orthopaedic surgeon in correction and re-education has shown what can be done, and the co-operation developing with the neurologists is most encouraging. The next few years will see positions opening for specially trained physical directors in public and private institutions and sanitaria, and the outlook for both men and women along many lines was never brighter.

(7)	The position of physical director and advisor in grade schools is another post, and to my way of thinking by all odds the most important. Every grammar school should have its gymnasium and director, but more particularly the latter, who should have specialized training for this position, and aside from the training she should possess a definite aptitude and fitness for this work. In addition to the regular physical educational subjects she should have paid especial attention to the problems of school and physical hygiene, growth, mutrition and child psychology—especially in relating the motor activities to sensory development. She must understand the sequence of development biologically, both mental and physical. In the school she should be. the representative of school physicians and school health service. She should be the school detective whose duty it is to spot out and watch for the earliest signs of potential postural, motor and nervous faults. She should be able to size up a child as to type, attitudes, gait, appearance, and other physical changes, and know something of what these facts indicate. Her most valuable function would be to act as advisor on health and development to both parents and teachers. She could visit a child’s home and find out about the environment there. Certainly a small amount of physical training in school is not going to accomplish much in correcting a child’s bad posture if at home he sleeps on a faulty bed, sits in bad chairs, wears faulty clothing, or has improper food.

It has been my experience, that the average mother is anxious to cooperate in every way, to do anything in reason which would improve the health and future growth of her children. While the grade teachers have had some training in observing many of these factors of child hygiene, it should be realized that the plastic, grammar school period is the most important time, physically in the child’s life. Certainly, this period is vital enough to need a special director or supervisor of health constantly “on the job” to carry out and elaborate the excellent work of school physicians and nurses who cannot, in the nature of things, do more than advise, and who are not trained along physical educational lines. The field for especially trained assistants to the orthopaedic surgeons is growing large every year and the younger men in this branch will soon be needing assistants, so that the demand on orthopaedic training centers is almost contant.

(8)	Hospital gymnasia. I am also going to prophesy that at no distant date, medical men and hospital directors will come to realize that every hospital should have its gymnasium and when possible its recreational field, for these two reasons: (a) Nurses: To keep the working
708

personnel up to its proper efficiency. Nurses in training should be required to take thirty minutes a day of active gymnasium work similar to the “setting up” exercises in the army. They should all have physical examinations in which as much or more attention should be paid to their actual physical motor fitness as to other more general factors of vital capacity. More nurses are incapacitated from flat feet, bad backs, and other static faults than from bad lungs or leaky hearts, (b) Patients: Surgeons and physicians will come to recognize that their patients are not well when their incisions are healed, and they have recovered enough to leave the” hospital. If the hopsital had a physiotherapy department the physician coy Id prescribe bed gymnastics, massage, and other corrective procedures which could be carried out by the director or assistant in the hospital physical department. Consequently, his patients could be sent out earlier and noticeably better, with more strength and a closer approach to normal health.

In the Orthopaedic Hospital-School gymnasium, we have found that the younger graduates in physical education coming to us, have very little conception of what is required of a technical assistant in orthopaedic surgery. It takes at least a year to add sufficient training to make even a good beginning in the development of these technicians. As the problems of crippled children have only begun to be appreciated thruout the country, and new institutions are arising to solve this problem, it can be readily seen that more and more men and women trained in orthopaedic technic will be needed. The big problem then, as I see it, is the modification of teaching methods to allow students to specialize more carefully and thus be fitted to step out of the university into a special branch, in which they will be as well equipped as they are now for taking up at once the usual lines of school athletics and gymnasium work. The refinement in technical detail, the enlargement of scope and importance of the larger field of activity is not at present presented by the medical departments, or by any other department of education. It is essential that this department be raised to the dignity of a school of physical education in the same sense that the medical, dental, or law departments are schools. Plans should be made looking to the grouping of subjects basic to work in this more technical physical educational course, and credits given which would make possible the attainment of a degree. This diploma would consequently mean very much more than it does at present. This department should rank as high as any other educational branch, for the health and development of our children both physically and mentally is as much in the hands of the physical directors as in those of any other instructors.

It seems feasible to presume that a course similar to the premedical course could be arranged in which very nearly the same subject matter as that already covered in other departments could be brought together in such a way that regular requirements could be satisfied, while at the same time the basis for the advanced work is laid. For instance, certain elements in dramatic art are important for a student in physical education because expression in all forms, speech, gesture, or look, are all psycho-motor activities and co rect understanding of them is essential in several branches of physical education and corrective work. A student could be credited then by the English department for work-in dramatic

Digitized by v^ooQle
70*

art or literary courses whose subject matter is connected with some phase of physical education. Regular work in biology and elemental physiology and anatomy, chemistry and physics, especially the latter should all have a place in this preliminary course. This work should be put into the two years just preceding the course in physical education. This course should include three or four years of fundamental work with another year of practical clinical work to be done either at the institution or at an affiliated one whose work is accredited by the University. As early as possible a student should be assisted by the head of the department to decide just which phase of the ultimate work she is best suited to undertake, and those branches in the preliminary course which bear on such work should be majored so as to pave the way definitely for the last year of selected clinical or laboratory work.

I am well aware of the fact that some persons in high positions educationally, do not agree that it should be a function of the physical department of a university to attempt the teaching of specialized corrective work. However, unless the university and recognized schools of physical education change the character and type of their teaching so as to graduate competent and accredited students who have the weight of a university degree back of their training we shall find the large field of which I have spoken, filled with untrained and unqualified persons, many of whom are little more than incompetent charlatans. Already the land is filled with institutions of mechanotherapy and physical culture, nature cures, massage parlors, Swedish institutes, and medical gymnasia. These are frequently conducted by some one who has acquired a smattering of physiotherapy during a sojourn in some sanatarium as a masseuse or masseur, or as an orderly at springs or hospitals where mechanothera-peutic procedures are used.

Some may hold that medical institutions should take over teaching of this kind. Granted; but medical students are not the ones who will practice in this field; consequently, the task falls to the lot of the physical education students. If these students are properly trained they will tend to discourage the illicit and improper activities of those unqualified persons who at present prey upon an innocent public.

The following is a brief sketch schemetically outlining the idea which I wish to suggest, merely as something to bring out and help to crystallize into action the more elaborate ideas of those more familiar with educational methods than myself.

1.	Anatomy Applied.

2.	Physiology Applied.

3.	Psychology Applied.

4.	Hygiene.

5.	Dramatic Art Elemental.

6.	Kinesiology.

7.	Gymnastics Theory and Practice.

8.	Drills—Dances.

9.	Rhythmic Studies.

10.	Other elements basic to regular physical education.

1st 2 years University preliminary to physical education and other required work.

2.	2 years in physical education school, 6 months clinical.

Digitized by L^ooQle


Another year for selective clinical for bachelor physical education.

Physical Education 4 years.

Bachelor Physical Education 5 years.

1.	Kindergarten physical education.

2.	Playground.

3.	Grammar Grades corrective advisory.

4.	Regular Gymnastic indoor floor.

5.	Regular Gymnastic indoor dances, drills and games.

6.	Regular Outdoor athletics, Recreational.

7.	Regular Outdoor folk dancing and pageantry.

8.	Camp Fire Girls.

9.	Boy Scouts. •

10.	Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A.

11.	Army and Navy physical director.

12.	Orthopaedic corrective work.

13.	Defective and Psychopaths corrective, educative and recreative.

14.	Speech Defects.

15.	Hospital Physical Director Physiotherapy Department patients and nurses.

16.	Industrial reconstruction.

The first two years at the university could cover the required and prephysical • preliminary work and fundamental physical educational subjects. The second two years the regular more advanced work, with the final six months of selected clinical work for the physical education degree, and another year of selected special training for bachelor1* degree.

The subjects which should be given as outlined in the scheme need a little explanation, for at present there is not enough, or at least not quite the right kind of work given by other departments to the physical education student. For instance, the head of the physical department should be allowed to outline the quantity and character of the work grven his students by these other departments, and not have to accept whatever may be given in accordance with the ideas of the other department heads.

Anatomy, should be applied anatomy—not as elaborate as that given to medical students, but it should be a working, living anatomy, not a matter of dry bones and dissections. Especial attention to the action of the bone levers and joint function should be given, and a correct idea of skeletal alignment, and the relation of muscle and ligaments in tain ng it. The effect of	un	the	organs	should	be	presented

in such a way that the physical education student actually visualizes Tiacci af relations when the pupil is working in various gymnastic positions. The average student cannot think mechanically in three planes—anteroposterior, lateral, and rotatory—all at once, and this is absolutely essential to the handling of abnormal cases like spinal curvatures, foot and leg conditions, etc. A most essential primary subject in anatomy should be sufficient anthropology to enable the student to correlate quickly the various type differences in order to know later how to classify their pupils and outline procedures along lines best suited to the varitas types. At present, long and short, fat and thin, in given grades arc given the same work. Certain types sack as the long, Tithe type arc

Digitized by v^.ooQle
711

naturally more prone to postural deviations of back and feet, and allowance should be made for this fact. More exact information about the glandular and sympathetic nervous systems should be given than at present, and is very essential to the proper understanding of later physiological studies which deal with these factors. The blood and nerve supply to the glands and viscerae is as important as to the muscles, and the time is coming when the student specializing along these lines will need to know more than the action, blood and nerve supply of the muscles only.

Physiology.—A branch which should be presented in a very practical, applied manner, laying more stress on newer aspects which underlie a proper application of the best methods used in psycho-motor training. The neuro-muscular relations; the sympathetic and visceral neural connections should be studied, and enough brain physiology to make the student more capable of understanding our problems in re-education, both physically and mentally, of the retarded and handicapped, should be given. Basic muscle physiology and more about glandular functionings and its relation to muscle tone should also have a place in this course. The thyroid gland being the energizing organ of the body and being especially related to the maintenance of muscle tone and essential fact in corrective work. The importance of glands of internal secretion in connection with growth and nutrition as well as physical and mental activity should be reasonably understood. A very important factor is an understanding of the balancing function, so elaborate in its working. The internal ear mechanism, the relation of eye balance to posture, the relation of shoulder and head muscles to visual effort used in balancing, studies in vertigo, and other abnormalities of balance, all are very essential and even basic to proper understanding of so vital a neuro-muscular function.

The department of psychology should present such subjects as the psychology of muscle training, the psychology of recovery, child psychology and methods of handling various types of children, and should insure a proper understanding of what sensory development means. We find few students who appreciate what motor activities are controlled by the sensorium, and the workings of various sensory centers is just asjm-portant as the motor centers

For those students who wish to take up speech defects orthopaedic corrective work, and work with feeble minded and defective children, more specially applied work along this very important branch will be needed. It is more particularly psycho-physiology that is needed, so that the average student will be well grounded for either the general or special branches of physical training.

Applied hygiene is a well recognized need, but is not^usually given in such a way that the importance of its truths sink home to the average student. The personal hygiene of the child and of his environment, both at school and home, should be gone into. The relation of chairs, beds, school desks, clothing, etc., to posture and efficiency should be studied. The recognition of physical factors indicating potential functional faults; mouth breathing, faults in speech, early signs of tics, muscle spasms, sigma #f deafness and eye disturbances, and a long line of other things should be dwelt upon. There are enough facts of this kind to make fif-

Digitized by

Google
712

teen lectures alone on applied hygiene without going into the sex question, sanitation, or housing, and the broader aspects of general interest.

An elemental or working acquaintance with a certain amount of dramatic art dealing with expression and the fundamentals which underl e gesture, speech, etc., should also be given. All expression is a motor activity and an acquaintance with the normal biological development of it is important.

Studies in rhythm, drill, dancing, etc., constitute a subject in themselves, as do games and athletic activities, both indoor and outdoor.

Kinesiology, the theory and practice of gymnastics, and the other basic subjects to the regular physical training course should all be arranged as needed.

I wish to bring out chiefly that the first five mentioned should be given more accurately and interestingly as being the subjects most needed to fit the students for a wider, and more scientific field of endeavor in this line. These are the branches in which the students are weakest, and this necessitates the taking of more post-graduate work before the newer lines of activity can be entered.

The large field of correc ive physical education has scarcely been touched, and yet records are ample to show that the majority (from seventy-five to eighty-five per cent) of all our school children have some physical defect. Why then shall we continue in the old way, giving most attention to the minority when the major need is so great?

THE PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF MALARIA.

Why is malaria allowed to cost on an estimated average 1,130,000 deaths and more than 100,000,000 cases of illness every year in India alone? Why does that country continue to pay its annual bill of $284,-000,000 for the privilege of having malaria? Why do many other countries also pay their continual tribute? For India, is only one of a great number of nations which fall within the malarial zone. Malaria in mild form, is distributed almost all over the known world; and in its malignant form, according to Dr. Wickliffe Rose, the General Director of the Rockefeller International Health Board, “it belts the globe in a broad zone including tropical and semi-tropical regions.” Furthermore, more than half of the inhabitants <?f the earth live where infection is prevalent.

The answer is that until recently the cost of adequate anti-malaria measures has been considered too great, except in cases where the elimination of malaria was an absolute necessity, to be accomplished regardless of expense, and in large cities where a dense population makes the per capita expense relatively light. A case of the former type was that of the Panama Canal Zone, where for five years, the annual per capita cost was $3.65—a heavy tax, but insignificant in comparison with its importance as a pa t of digging the canal.

In Port Said satisfactory malaria control was secured at an annual cost of 10 cents per capita. But Port Said has 100,000 inhabitants, a population large enough to bear a total expenditure which would be prohibitive for towns of from 1,000 to 5,000 inhabitants.

Recent tests, however, in Arkansas and Mississippi have proved that malaria control is economically feasible in towns of 1,000. Four methods

Digitized by
713

were tried, anti-mosquito measures, screening of houses, administration of immunizing quinine, and attacking the parasite in the blood of the human carrier. All gave excellent results. At Crossett, Arkansas, a lumber town of 2,129 inhabitants where climatic conditions and abundant breeding places favor the propagation of anopheles, and where about 60% of all sickness was due to malaria, which was present in endemic form, the first experiment was tried, an account of which, as of the otl^rs, has been given in full by Dr. Rose in the Journal of the American Medical Association for November 8, 1919.

Pits and shallow ponds were filled or drained. Undergrowth was cleared away from the edge of running streams, their banks were trimmed, and they were held to narrow channels, with, of course, a swifter current. Other places which could not be drained or tilled were cleared of vegetation, opened up so as to allow access to small fish (natural enemies of mosquitoes,) and oiled weekly with road oil, either by means of automatic drips, or with a knapsack-type sprayer. All artificial containers were removed from the vicinity of the homes, and water barrels on bridges were treated with niter cake. The work was under the supervision of a trained man, and was carried out in a thoroughgoing manner.

The first result was the apparently almost complete elimination of the mosquito. The actual reduction in malaria, as shown by parasite indices from May to December, 1916, was 72.33%.

In 1915, there had been at Crossett 2,500 calls for the services of the local physicians in malaria Cases. In 1916 there were but 741; a reduction of 70.33%.

Crossett was convinced of the value of anti-malaria measures. It took over the work of mosquito control, and in 1917, succeeded in reducing the number of doctors’ calls to 200—less than one a day. In 1918 this was cut still further to 73. In three years Crossett had eliminated 97.1 per cent of its physicians* calls for malaria.

And what did this cost Crossett?

The per capita cost of the work the first year was #1.24, omitting over head expenses which could not properly be charged against the campaign. The total cost for 1917 was 63 cents per capita; and in 1918 Crossett was kept virtually malaria-free at an expense of 53 cents for each inhabitant. Five other towns were similarly treated with virtually the same results.

The second method—screening houses— was tried in 1916 at a group of plantations along the shore of Chicot Lake, Arkansas. This section was infested with mosquitoes, and had a high malaria rate. Most of the houses were negro cabins, often poorly constructed, and difficult to screen. Nevertheless, all of the openings in the house were covered with 16-mesh galvanized wire cloth, The tenants were also shown how to keep the screens in good condition, and were warned of the danger of exposure to mosquitoes outside at night.

From May to December the reduction in malaria, based on the parasite-index method, was 70.6 per cent. The average cost of screening each house was $ 14.59, and, as the screens easily last two years, the average annual cost was $7.30, and the cost per capita $1.75.

In another group of plantations, which lay along a sluggish bavou where mosquitoes bred plentifully, the immunizing quinine method was

Digitized by CjOOQie
714

tested. Each adult in the community was given io grains of quinine daily—five in the morning and five in the evening—for two successive days each week. For children under 15, the dose was one grain for each three years of their age. Parasite indices taken in May and December of the year 1916 showed a malaria reduction of 64.45 per cent, at a per capita cost of 57 cents.

The final method of malaria control is to destroy the parasites in the blood of the carriers. This was first suggested by Dr. Robert Koch, the famous German physician and discoverer of the tubercle bacillus, during a visit to Italy in 1898, and first demonstrated by him in Stephansport, German New Guinea, in 1900, where he materially reduced the malaria rate in this little town of 734 persons.

During 1916 and 1917 this method was tested among more than

30,000	people in Bolivar county, Mississippi. Ten grains of quinine a day for eight weeks was found sufficient to sterilize the blood of about 90 per cent of the persons to whom it was administered.

In 1918 the test was applied to Sunflower county, Miss. “This area/’ says the report of the experiment, “like the delta region in the heart of which it lies, is level, low-lying, and covered at frequent intervals with a net-and-patchwork of sluggish streams, bayous and swamps .... a typical rural area.” About 9,000 people live in the 100 square miles selected for the demonstration: 1,000 in the town of Ruleville and 8,000 on the cotton plantations.

There are about four times as many negroes as white people in the test area. From one-third to three-fourths of the people on the plantations are estimated to have one or more attacks of malaria annually'. Of an annual doctors’ bill of $4,000 for one plantation with 600 tenants, $3,000 was chargeable to the one disease. A census was taken, showing that 40 per cent of the rural population had had malaria within twelve months, and that, of the remaining 60 per cent, 22 per cent had the parasites in their blood. All persons who had had malaria, and who were carrying the parasites, were given 10 grains of quinine a day for eight weeks.

Although no reliable figures are available as yet, it is estimated by the directors of this work that approximately 80 per cent control has been established over malaria.

These experiments point the way to action. In South Georgia the American Red Cross has been conducting an intensive antimalaria campaign, in co-operation with the State Board of Health, the Georgia Association, the U. S. Public Health Service and several large corporations. The tests have shown that where mosquito control is feasible, it unquestionably is practical. Taking into due consideration the safeguards with which scientific generalizations must be hedged, it may safely be said that people do not have to have malaria if they do not want it, and that it will pay them, both in direct saving of money and in greater efficiency, to put into effect one or more of the anti-malaria measures. All that is needed is the willingness to be shown, and expert advice. The one must come from the people, themselves, but the other is to be had tor the asking.

The following brief summary of measures of malaria treatment, embodying recent recommendations by American, British and Italian

Digitized by

Google
715

physicians, has been prepared by the Department of Medical Information of the League of Red Cross Societies, and is being circulated by the American Red Cross.

“Quinine is an effective remedy in attacks of malarial fever, and its administration should be begun immediately the diagnosis is assured, irrespective of the stage of the attack or the height of the fever. But the drug will not act so efficiently, (a) if the liver is sluggish or congested,

(b)	if the alimentary canal is coated with mucus or is otherwise in a disordered state, (c) if for this, or any other reason, the drug cannot be properly absorbed into the system.

To obviate these difficulties, (a) a smart purge should always be given on the day that the quinine treatment is begun; (b) the quinine should always be administered in solution in a prescription that will make the taste less unpleasant, and will aid absorption and the normal working of the digestive functions; mastication of a piece of bread will quickly remove the taste of quinine, (c) the doses of quinine should be made up in a large amount of fluid, rather than in concentrated form; (d) the patient should remain in bed until the treatment of the attack is completed.

“The treatment of a case includes treatment of the attack, and after-treatment.

A good routine quinine system for the treatment of attacks in adults is to give, three times daily on five consecutive days, ten grains of the sulphate or hydrochloride dissolved with dilute acid in at least two ounces of water. In the great majority of cases this treatment will cause the parasites to disappear and the fever to cease in from 24 to 72 hours, but it should be continued for five days. This completes the cure of the attack.

Quinine should be given by the mouth whenever it can be administered and absorbed by that route, but occasionally vomiting is so persistent that this cannot be done, nor can it be done in some pernicious attacks when no time must be lost. In such cases, the best method of treatment is to administer quinine intravenously, but the operation requires good technique, great care, and strict aseptic precautions.

(Intramuscular administration of quinine is recommended only when the intravenous injection is impossible; and subcutaneous injection is absolutely banned by the authors.)

After Treatment.

Except when a relapse is of an unusually severe character, the patient should be fit to return to his ordinary mode of life when the treatment of the attack concluded. Thci^aftot ho chnuld live in as normal a manner as possible, and should during three months take quinine regularly according to one or other of the following plans of after-treatment.

(a)	10 grains of quinine once daily at dinner-time or bedtime or

(b)	30 grains of quinine on each of two consecutive days, e. g., Saturday and Sunday each week.

(c)	3° grains of quinine every Sunday, the amount being taken in three doses of 10 grains each, the first in the early morning, the second at midday, and the third in the evening, or

(d)	30 grains of quinine taken as in (c), but every tenth day instead

Digitized by CjOOQle
716

of every Sunday.—Suggestions for the Care of Malaria Patients, Colonel Sir Ronald Ross and Lieut. Col. S. P. James, London.

U.	S. Army Methods:

The method recommended in the United States Army for the treatment of malaria is as follows:

“The treatment of malaria, both for the acute attack and for infected persons not having acute symptoms, is in vogue in the Army as recommended by the Sub-Committee on Medical Research of the National Malaria Committee, of which Senior Surgeon Henry R. Carter, U. S .P. H. S., is secretary, who believes that this treatment will, in the great majority of cases, prevent relapses in the patients themselves and also .prevent the transmission of infection to others. It is, of course, to be remembered that cases of malicious attack must have more intensive treatment. This treatment is, for the acute attack, io grains of quinine sulphate by mouth three times a day for a period of at least three or four days, to be followed by io grains every night before retiring, for a period of eight weeks; while for infected persons not having acute symptoms at the time, only the eight weeks treatment is required.

The proportionate doses for children according to the Medico-Military Review for the Medical Department, U. S. Army, February i, 1920 Page

1 o, are:

Under 1 year ................................1	grain

Under	1—2 years ...........................2	grains

Under	3—4 years ...........................3	grains

Under	5—7 years ...........................4	grains

Under	8—10 years ..........................6	grains

Under	n—14 years ..........................8	grains

15 years or older ...........................10	grains

The Italian System:

The following advice is given by Italian authorities:

“In so far as treatment is concerned, quinine remains the sovereign remedy: it cannot be replaced by others which have been experimented with, such as methylene blue, antimony tarteate, hydro-chloride of emetin, arsenical preparations, hydrochloride of hydrocupreine, Quinine in certain cases may be replaced by salvarsan, or better, by conchonin, especially in the case of hemoglobinuric patients to whom quinine cannot be administered; cinchonin, if it is pure, is not disagreeable to them. In treatment it is always better to employ large curative doses, even when prevention of a relapse is desired. The doctor should seek particularly the realiza-*k;q iHpaL w«ll in the Interest of the patient as in that of prophylaxis.

“Quinine administered by mouth, in intermittent curative doses, until clinical observation proves that the patient is cured is the approved treatment.” II Policlinico (Sezione pratica), October 1919, page 1206. Military Measures.

From the Journal of the Royal Army Medical Corps, February 1920, page 85; An Anti-Malaria Campaign in Palestine, E. P. Sewell and A. S. Mac Gregor.

Among the military measures against malaria are included:

1.	Drainage of marshes and canalization of streams.	**

2.	Trimming of river banks and removal of reeds.

Digitized by
3- Oiling or closing of wells and cisterns.

4.	Avoidance by troops of neighborhood of rivers, etc.

5. Protection of men by mosquito-proof huts in most dangerous places and by nets elsewhere.

6.	Use of ointments and head nets by men on duty at night.

7. Avoidance of villages by at least half a mile, or removal of native population.

8.	Evacuation and thorough quininization of soldiers infected with malaria.

OBSERVATIONS AND COMMENTS ON THE NATIONAL

FESTIVAL.

Held at Chicago June 2<)th to July 4th 1921.

A CAUSERIE BY ERNST A. WEIER, CINCINNATI.

When I concluded to go to the National Turnfest at Chicago, I did so with a mental reservation. I concluded to go as a self-appointed Observation Committee, and without being known as such, keep my eyes and my ears open, and digest in my own mind and in my own way all I could see and hear. As an old newspaper man I have some qualifications for that kind of observation.

From a purely gymnastic point of view I am inclined to consider the Turnfest a great success, but it must be kept in mind, that the Turner-bund is not a purely gymnastic organization. A Turnfest is not per se a “Tournament of Gymnastics.” The Society Competitions, and the individual Competitions are not the purpose but only the medium for the higher purposes of the Union. It appeared to my old-fashioned eyes, as if Super-Gymnastics (Gipfclturnen) were entirely too,much in evidence. In this view I am supported by the fact that most of the first prizes were carried off by the old gymnasts, (some of them gymnastic teachers) who have carried off these same prizes time and again at previous Turnfests. On the other hand many clever, strong and ambitiously painstaking Turners were not able to acquire the 75 points necessary to put them in the running. This was a rather discouraging condition, which may prove to have a bad effect in the future. For example: Leaving in the midst of the prize distribution, I was in company with a gymnastic teacher of the old school. On our way we met another teacher. Both these men stand at the head of their profession. Both of them stand for the highest ideals of Turnerism. In a short conversation on the subject of prizes, etc., they agreed in a strong condemnation of many things that were part of the physical competition on the previous days. They as-

Note by Editor—Mr. IVeier is a member of the North Cincinnati Gymnasium. The report was written for this society, but it contains so many excellent suggestions and criticisms that we are certain that they will be of more than ordinary interest not only to the thousands of readers of Mind and Body that were at Chicago, but to all of our readers. The descriptions of most of the model exercises shown at the festival will appear in subsequent issues of Mind and Body.

Digitized by v^ooQle
718

serted that under the present conditions the prize awards for individuals had little merit. I did not participate in the discussion, but similar opinions came quite often to my ear.

Regarding prizes for individual work, I am of the opinion that any person having received a first prize at a previous Turnfest should be considered Hors Concours (out of competition). He or she may participate, may even be rated, but cannot compete for a prize in the same class of work, because he already has gained the highest honor that can be bestowed on any individual at a Turnfest. Turnfest-Prizewinners are by no means “Prize-fighters,” who must defend their title “against all comers, or lose it.” We honor them for all time to come and the more there are of their skill and physical efficiency, the better we like it, and the nearer we come to our ideal.

This suggestion, of course, applies in the main to the Decathlon and Octathlon, and in a minor degree to the Pentathlon. It cannot in justice apply to the Society Competition. It might however, be applied to several forms of the Special Athletics, but, at best, this is only a suggestion of a layman, who is perfectly content to let our technical men wrestle with the problem of preventing the development of semi-professionalism at our Turnfests.

The Octathlon or Eight-Exercise-Competition for Women, was an innovation, for the first time presented at any Gymnastic Festival. As such it was a thorough success, especially confirming that the American System of Turnerism, of all-around physical training, adapts itself to women as well as men, and is a boon for the one as for the other.

Above I said that a “Turnfest” is not a “Tournament of Gymnasts only.” Its real purpose is the demonstration and exemplification of the results of rational physical training, as championed by the American Gymnastic Union. I am therefore delighted to say, that there is also a brighter and, to my mind, more important side to the gymnastic work shown at Chicago. I refer to “The Model Exercises” on the part of the 60 participating societies.

If any proof were needed, that the American Gymnastic Union, (personally I prefer the title “Turnerbund”) has developed a genuinely American system of physical education, then the Model Exercises at Chicago furnished that proof. Moreover, they gave the evidence, that, while resting on the foundation of German Turnerism, the American system has tremenduous advantages over the German system.

This exemplification of the results that are obtainable by our American system of physical education was a truly wonderful demonstration. Every known kind of exercise was shown, singly and in combinations, and many of them as nearly perfect as human minds and bodies can make them. I heard some mutterings, because there were no first, second and third prizes. It appears that some of the participants were itching for the cooling feel of laurel wreaths on their heated brows. Of course, this was only the misconception of a few. It is not possible to rate Model Exercises competitively, because of the great diversity of these exercises. They can be judged only individually, as was done, by predicate, namely, “Excellent,” “Very Good” and “Good.”

In my opinion, all participants, no matter what predicate they obtained, and even those who obtained no predicate at all, deserve unstinted
719

praise and full recognition for their zeal and good work. They did noble yeoman service for a noble cause. They brought incontestible proof that the A. G. U. system of physical education makes for healthy bodies and active minds, and—upon the healthy bodies and active minds of our boys and girls rests the future growth and strength of the nation.

The question has been put to me, which single one of the Model Exercises I would consider as the best. This question can only be answered by inference and elimination. No individual saw all and every one of the 60 Model Exercises. They were adjudged in three groups working simultaneously on three different fields. Very few of the classes were sent by the judges in charge to the main field to repeat their exercises for the benefit of the Grand Stand. The time allotted for this sufficed only for the outstanding excellent ones. Such assignment to the main field was considered a special honor. Another special honor was the assignment for a number on the program of the Slodel Exhibition at Medinah Temple. These latter classes were selected by the judges in charge, together with the acting judges in each group, altogether 17 competent gymnastic teachers. Their selection practically eliminates all other classes from our consideration, although it takes nothing away from the honor due them.

The class of the North Cincinnati Gymnasium with the predicate “Excellent” received both honors referred to. So the class was certainly one of the best. We cannot select from the classes appearing at the Medinah Temple anyone as “the best,” because each one was the most preferred in its particular branch of exercises. But we can infer from the attitude of the audience, which class created the greatest enthusiasm. I watched the audience in the Grand Stands as well as in the Temple, and I do not hesitate to say that again the N. C. G. was in the lead.

The N. C. Class had many advantages. It was the largest class appearing at the Medinah Temple, excepting the class of the Swiss Turn-verein of Chicago, who in building pyramids on built-up Parallel bars and ladders, used 58 Seniors. These exercises, too, were very fine, so easily and gracefully executed, that there was no suggestion of acrobatics, and yet I have seldom seen professional acrobats do more daring, and never more elaborate stunts.

In addition to numbers the N. C. G. Class had the advantage of superior general appearance. Here were 30 women and 20 men, in the prime of their bloom, full chested, strong limbed, clean skinned and cleareyed, with a ruddy tan, evidently due to some strenuous camp life. All of them had that well-poised carriage which denotes intelligence. This general appearance was supplemented by a correctly tailor-made uniformity of dress, simple, yet rich and elegant, with just a dash of spice.

While this appearance captivated the onlooking public at once, alter all, it was the remarkable exercises, which fully released the pent-up enthusiasm. The exercises described as March, Dance and Posing, were masterfully developed and arranged. The march evolutions and the dancing steps leading up to the culminating expressive pose were so ingeniously woven and fused into each other that they practically lost their identity, and all three became a beautiful unit.

The execution was equal to the arrangement; gracefully flowing movements, as if the fifty were merged into one body, characterized the work.

Digitized by

Google
720

There was no apparent effort, no exertion, at least none showed on the smiling faces.

In the grand stand I was sitting next to two elderly ladies, who addressed each other as “Doctor.” At the end ot the second part one said: "“Doctor Mary, I wonder that these girls can stand this work in the sweltering sun.” “It is the most wonderful exhibition, I have ever seen. Doctor Ollie,” responded the other, “but they must be tired. That class of work requires immense mental and physical exertion.” And then the music started and the class fell into the joyous Allegro movements of the third part. “Doctor Ollie,” cried Doctor Mary, “they are not tired, they like it better then ever.”

I have wondered whether or not the participants collectively and individually fully understood the importance and meaning ot the exercises. I wondered whether they were individually cognizant of the fact that almost the entire gamut of human emotions was given in the run of the expressive poses. There was Adoration, Love and Hatred, Pensiveness, Reluctance and Determination, Depression, Joyousness and Vivacity, and many others.

Any individual, even as a unit in a class, who has his or her mind and his or her body so perfectly under control, as to illustrate convincingly all of these emotions in rapid succession, surely conveys the superiority of the physical and mental training necessary for that achievement.

I would just love to describe a goodly number of these Model Exercises, but that would mean writing a book. In order to illustrate the great diversity presented, I will mention only the one which was the most extremely removed from the N. C. G. exercises, but just as perfectly executed. I mean the exercises on parallel bars by a Women’s Class from Philadelphia. The class was small (I believe but ten young women) but they surely were pert and up-to-date. The dress was a combination of black bloomers and riding breeches, well adapted to the purpose. The exercises, not exactly new, but still rarely undertaken by women, were done very precisely, easily and with absolute self-control, and captivating gracefulness. The leader had found a good way of illustrating the mentality necessary to these physical exercises. At the end of each round the crisp command “At rest!” Just a shiver and the class was in total relaxation. Two seconds later, the command, “Attention!” Just a flash and the class stood in motionless rigidity. That clever little thing needed not only absolute physical control of every muscle, but still more instantaneous mental activity.

The Model Exercises were effectively supplemented by “The Mass Exercises” of all participants. These were shown in three groups:

(a)	Seniors—Wand Exercises.

(b)	Women—Indian Club Exercises.

(c)	Men—Free Exercises.

Each group created much entuhsiasm in the Grand Stands, which were this time fairly well filled, and each group was generously applauded.

Notwithstanding the public acclaim, as an individual observer, I can give the Mass Exercises the predicate of “Good” only. There was something lacking in them. This was manifest in the group of the Seniors, a little less so in the group of the women and quite decidedly so in the group of the men. The exercises were lacking in that verve, or enthusiast-

Digitized by v^ooQle
721

ic vivacity of mind and body, which generally characterizes Mass Exercises of the Turners, and only of the Turners, There was a plain show of fatigue in the men. This was partly due to the fact, that many of the participants were waiting two hours in the scorching sun, before the great event could come off—but in the main it was due to the cruelly hard work of the previous days. Then the leader did not seem to have that ebullient enthusiasm and personal magnetism necessary to overcome this evident handicap.

The exercises themselves were quite ingeniously conceived and well worked out, but it appeared in the group of the men that the music was not completely in rhythm with the exercises, thus creating a hesitating or faltering movement at the end of each figure. Also the endurance test at the end of the exercises, which left the men in a suspended position, as if the leader had forgotten to give a command, was, to my mind, superfluous and detracted from the general effect.

Above I said that a Turnfest is not per se a Tournament of gymnasts. Indeed the term “Fest” inplies an abundance of cordial hospitality, joyousness and enjoyment.

Chicago is not a cordial community. There is little hospitable warmth in its communal confines. Maybe that is due to its elephantine size and peculiarly cosmopolitan make-up of inhabitants. The different Turner Societies did their very best to overcome this difficulty, but distance and extreme differences of opinions in their different memberships mitigated against these efforts. Not the Chicago Turners but the peculiar milieu in which they labored, was responsible for the failure of the social feature of the “Fest” at large.

If there was a Reception Committee, the Ohio District, possibly the largest individual delegation, did not know of it. We were not received, “but found our own way,” much to the chagrin of some or our more impetuous members, who could not understand such a condition. Cpon inquiry at Headquarters later on, I found that there was a Reception Committee. Their Flag Bearer was at our railroad station but by some of our members was erroneously taken for a hotel runner. The committee itself was waiting for us at another depot, and the Military Band to escort us, at still another. And thus we escaped a parade on Michigan Avenue, commonly known as Gasoline Alley, for which we bear no malice.

The Official Reception by City, State and Nation at the truly wonderful municipal pier, was a conventional affair, in which neither hosts nor guests took a very pronounced interest. A letter from President Harding was a pleasant feature. The speeches of Mayor Thompson and his political adversary, U. S. Senator McCormick, and of the Festival Officers were well received, but there was no over-flowing enthusiasm.

A deplorable feature was the absence of a comprehensive program and guide for the Festival visitors. An advertising program of big dimensions appeared at the end of the second day at fifty cents apiece, but found few purchasers even at the material price reductions on the concluding days. Moreover, it did not fill the requirements. The information to be gained from the press, the “German Abendpost” included, was very meagre; in fact it was insufficient and inefficient. Thus, while the active participants were put through the hardest kind of work (they

Digitized by

Google
722

had a very efficient printed working plan) the Festival visitors were left in the main to their own resources.

O* course, there were oases in this social desert. The Business Men’s Turner Classes of Chicago gave for instance an Auto ride and Social Session at the Vorwaerts Turner Hall to the visiting Business Men’s Turner Classes. This affair was very enjoyable in all its details.'

The Reception of the Chicago Turn-Gemeinde, arranged as a Model Mental Evening was elaborately planned with a splendid show of oldtime Turner hospitality. Unfortunately the excessive heat, the constant coming and going of guests and especially the non-acoustic qualities of the hall worked against the strenuous efforts of the Committee in charge. Everything offered there was of the best but its enjoyment was much impaired by the conditions. Every guest appreciated the cordiality and the fine spirit manifested by the Turngemeinde.

Very enjoyable was the meeting, the dinner and the auto ride of the Turner Pioneers, in charge of Turner Adolf Georg. As I am a member of the Turnerbund for only forty-five years, I was admitted with a few others by special dispensation only, but these few hours were surely an unadulterated pleasure. In this connection I might mention, that hereafter, all Turners connected with the Bund for thirty years or more will be considered “Pioneers.** I strongly advocate such a Pioneer organization for Cincinnati or the Ohio Distrjct.

There was also a Social Session of Gymnastic Teachers, but I am informed, that this was rather a fizzle. The active participants, men and women, were left to their own resources, as far as pleasure and enjoyment was concerned. The usual festival spirit and hearty social meeting on the Festival Grounds was not in evidence. In justice to the committee one might say, that this was abolished by the 18th amendment to the Constitution of the U. S.

The arrangement of a National Turnfest costs money, much money. Furthermore these arrangements, as well as the acquiring of the necessary funds, involve a great deal of labor on the part of the District undertaking the arrangements. Taking all this and especially the prevailing conditions into consideration, the Illinois District deserves credit. All that pertained to the Fest as a Gymnastic Tournament was well taken care of.

One could not, however, fail to observe that the arrangements were, in the main, a one-man affair. The same condition threatened for instance to make the Denver Turnfest eight years ago a failure, if the National Executive Committee had not stepped in and straightened out matters in time. In Chicago the appointment of a “Business Manager” worked out a little better than it did in Denver. It seems, however, that after the appointment of a Manager, the many Festival Committees considered their work done and left everything to the Manager—including the money-getting.

I understand that there is no deficit at Chicago. Receipts and disbursements arc reported as nearly equalizing each other. I further understand, that the cost of the Turnfest is about $35,000, more or less. That is a ridiculously small sum, especially for Chicago and under present conditions, but it accounts for the fact, that while there was a Gymnastic Tournament, there was little visible advancement for the great cause of

Digitized by CjOOQle
723

Turnerism. We may estimate that it cost the societies and the individual participants in the preparation, outfitting, travelling and hotel expense and in loss of time, (which most of them felt in their pay-envelopes) at least $400,000 to go to Chicago. In other words, Chicago and Chicago Turners had at their disposition a $400,000 advertisement, which they did not make use of. The attendance of the Chicago public at the Festival was exceedingly meagre. There may have been extenuating circumstances, but I do not know of them. To my mind it was sheer indifference.

On the other hand the Arrangements Committees had not done a thing to project the Festival directly into the public. That is evidently a fault of the Committees, not of the Manager.

The Cincinnati Turnfest, twelve years ago, cost the sum of $67,000. It is fair to say that every man, woman or child in Cincinnati knew about the great Festival and at one time or the other saw something of it. The parade alone was witnessed by 150,000 people. The exhibitions on the Stadium at Government Square drew every evening an attendance of from 15,000 to 20,000 people. There was nothing at all of that sort in Chicago. The attendance at Carthage Fair Grounds in Cincinnati was every day larger than the attendance at Riverview in Chicago. Even while the transportation facilities were much poorer in Cincinnati than in Chicago, every day brought thousands of visitors to the Festival from neighboring towns and cities. I failed to see any in Chicago.

And then we must not forget, that Chicago in 1921 claims eight times as much population as Cincinnati had twelve years ago. Chicago presented itself very poorly in that respect, whatever might have been the cause. It behooves the American Gymnastic Union to see to it that such a thing does not occur again. We cannot afford to sacrifice the immense advertising value of a Turnfest.

The coincidence that the Turnfest and the Prize fight came off simultaneously, invites a comparison. Before attempting such a comparison I might state that I do not object to prize fights. I see no particular good in them, but do not share that hyper-moral indignation exhibited by some people. My attitude toward prize fights is something like that of the gentle Thackeray. The great writer attended a prize fight and in front of him was a lady very indignant at the spectacle. He writes about that:

“With every love and respect for Morality, my spirit says to her, ‘Do, for goodness* sake, my dear madam, keep your true, pure, and womanly, and gentle remarks for another day. Have the great kindness to stand a leetle aside, and just let us see one or two more rounds between the men.* ”

Prize-fights are as old as history—yes older. Greece, before it became civilized, had its prize fights. About 1164 years before Christ, there were two tough soldiers, who gave the first prize fight publicly recorded. Their names were Epeus and Euryalus. Their hands were bound in rawhide thongs (Homer calls them “Gloves of death”) and they hammered each other in true blacksmith style, the finer points of prize fighting being not yet known.

Homer, the first and greatest of Ancient Poets, reports in Song 23 of the Iliad:

Digitized by Google
724

“Amid the circle now each champion stands,

And poses high in air his iron hands;

With clashing gauntlets now they fiercely close,

Their cracking jaws re-echo to the blows,

And painful sweat from all their members flows.

At length Epeus dealt a weighty blow Full on the cheek of his unwary foe;

Beneath the ponderous>arms’ resistless sway Down dropped the nerveless, and extended lay.

Some American newspapers shed real tears over Dempsey’s chivalry in assisting the conquered Frenchman to his corner, but that too is ancient custom. Homer continues:

To rear his fallen foe the victor lends,

Scornful, his hand, and gives him to his friends,

Whose arms support him reeling through the throng And dragging his disabled legs along,

Nodding, his head hangs down his shoulder o’er;

His mouth and nostrils pour the clotted gore.

Rome, of course, brutalized prize fighting. Here the fighters were superstitious and—just for luck—put a horse shoe (preferably one from a Brewery wagon horse) in the gauntlet of death, but as both parties took this precaution, the sleep-inducing properties of the horse-shoe were neutralized.

The prize fight in New Jersey was an individual business speculation. The speculators got the two fighters together and worked patriotism and similar “isms’* to a'standstill. The two gladiators represented the strength and the glory of the United States and France respectively. The great fight would bring the two nations closer together, and a good deal more of such tommy-rot. And when the promotors had the newspapers going on the subject, they built their amphitheatre to seat 91,000 people, and sold $1,500,000 worth of tickets. If the advertising value given by newspapers of the country free of charge to this speculators’ money-grubbing business, could be computed, it would reach many millions of dollars.

Then the fight came off. The whole circus lasted seventeen minutes, the actual blows of the men only eleven minutes. In the nth minute Carpenticr thought he had all he wanted and slid gently to the floor. “One, two - nine, ten - Raus mit’m.” In a few minutes he was as good as new. Then the 75,000 spectators howled themselves hoarse, Uncle Sam collected his profit tax, Dempsey pocketed his fee of $300,000, Carpenticr got a slice nearly as large, and the speculators divided the rest. They were all well satisfied. Seven hundred scribes sat at the ring-side and ticked off each blow as it fell, so that the great American press could convey the news instantaneously to a breath-holding American public.

And now, what was the good of it all? What good did either nation, the United States and France, derive from this exhibition of brutal physical force? There was neither inspiration nor incentive for good in it, but there was plenty of disgust. It even does not prove that Dempsey was the better man (in a physical sense) of the two, all claims to the contrary notwithstanding. The benefits derived from such an exhibition are absolutely nil so far as nation or humanity are concerned. A plain every
726

day boxing match is a greater Factor in the promotion of physical training, than this prize-fight for mercenary purposes.

And yet—Press and Public went wild over it. It is fair to say, that almost everybody was interested. The world of fashion, leisure and elegance, as well as the hardworking hod-carrier and ditch-digger discussed the respective chances of Dempsey and Carpentier learnedly and intensively. I too, bought an “Extry.” It is indeed difficult to understand and to dissect the psychology ot the great public in such matters. The name and fame ot Epeus has endured over 3000 years. But there is no Homer ot the twentieth century who can and will in immortal verse immortalize Jack Dempsey. In fitty years one will have to delve through the musty files ot present day newspapers to be reminded ot his name, and not much later even the musty files will disintegrate, and what is then left ot Jack, the fight and the newspapers, will be a sorry heap ot ashes.

On the other hand—the Turnfest.—At the same time as the Prize fight in New Jersey there assembled in Chicago about 3000 Turners fo** a tour days friendly gymnastic contest and for in	and

demonstration of a great system of . arlonal physical education. I here was not one money g.ubbing professional among them. Professional gymnasts are rigidly and effectively barred. There is no money in it for them. There are no prizes of monetary value—only the friendly recognition of their equals, and honor is the award of the victors. Each of the participants came at his own expense, possibly in some cases helped by the local society to which he or she belonged. Each paid his own way—going and coming. Each *pent his own time. For what? For a National cause. For a cause of interest to every man; woman and child in this land. All the participants were American citizens- 99 per cent of them native born Americans. They came directly out of that great citizenship of which they are part and parcel and of which they are very proud. They wanted to participate actively in the betterment of that citizenship; they wanted to help, to assure the future health and strength of the nation.

They were welcomed to Chicago by a congratulatory letter of the President of the United States, by the Governor of the State of Illinois, by the Mayor of Chicago, by a large and representative Citizens Committee. From all this one would infer that the Turnrest would be heralded in the Press of the Land and that the Press ot Chicago would flow over with the descriptive news ot Chicago’s guests. Nothing of the kind. The Turnfest did not make a ripple in the whirlpool of Chicago’s daily life.

Every hour of the four days brought better and more important ex* hibits of physical strength, alertness, and agility, than the whole 11-minute prize-fight. Hundreds or physical feats were performed, none of which either of the two giants of the prize fight could have duplicated. And the admittance fee was a mere pittance—just sufficient to keep control of the masses. ' Four grown persons could have attended every one and all exhibits of the Turnfest on every day for the price of one seat in the back row of the prize fight ring, so far removed from the battle that faces could not be visualized with an opera glass. Still 75,000 people bought seats in New Jersey, and only about 15,000 people attended one

Digitized by CjOOQle
or the other of the Turnfest exhibits in Chicago—most of them directly connected with the American Gymnastic Union.

The Model Exhibition at Medinah Temple was, without a shadow of a doubt, the finest gymnastic exhibition ever shown in the United States— and—for that matter—in the world. It is not likely, in fact it is not possible, that anything approaching the same can again be seen before four years—at the next Turnfest. About 2000 people, outside of the hundreds of active participants attended the exhibition. There are perhaps 10,000 teachers in Chicago, each one of whom, if at all interested in his profession, had a vital interest in the exhibition from a purely pedagogical point of view. I doubt that one hundred of them embraced the opportunity.

On the same day the prize fight took place, the Chicago Tribune devoted three pages to the prize fight a thousand miles away and two agate lines to the exhibition at the Medinah Temple, at their own doors, hasn’t that a fine show of patriotism and national pride? ^What does it mattei J Nntl/>ug all

Turnerism—that is rational eiUioatinn of mind and body needs no Homer to immortalize it. It is a live principle, growing from day to day. In fifty years from now, every child of this nation will enjoy its blessings. Many of us Turners remember the time, when we appealed to the Cincinnati Board of Education for the introduction of physical education in the Public Schools, and were laughed at. Finally we obtained the appointment of one Gymnastic Teacher, trained at our Normal Coilegc. This was about twenty-five years ago. Today we h*'rc in Cincinnati a Director of Physical Education with sixty-fi*’* gymnastic teachers. In every new school hous** there is an elaborate gymnasium. In many are swimming po^Is, etc. One of the new high schools contains what is said to be the finest equipment for gymnastic education anywhere. The health and the physical development of our school children are watched over by physicians, examiners and nurses, and still greater things are in sight. Twenty-five years ago, we Turners were told that it is a foolish idea to teach our children to play, but today—is there one person so foolish as to want to abolish one of the many public playgrounds in our city, tor which we worked and agitated fifty years ago. Not at all—more are asked for every day and more are needed, and more will come.

Similar progress in Turnerism has been made in many other* large cities. Physical education has achieved its place in the National Education Plan of the U. S., and we Turners have furnished the argument, the demonstration and the proof of the argument, the system and, in many cases, the men to execute it. Still the attitude of the Public and the Press in the matter of the Turnfest at Chicago proves that the mission of the American Gymnastic Union is not completed. We must stiH continue to teach and to demonstrate. But—success is ours!

Digitized by UooQle
727

A STUDY OF ORDINARY FLAT FEET.

BY J. R. HARRIS, LT. COL., U. S. A. RETIRED.

Department Hygiene and Preventive Medicine, Cornell University.

The term “Flat Foot” is misleading and many fail to realize that the disabling condition is essentially “Splay Foot.” The problem of f Flat Feet” is so important that every effort should be made to understand and solve it.	9

A report of recent army statistics indicates that 62 per cent of the men examined for war service were suffering from foot trouble. A study

figure 1.

Side view of foot. (Mounted in plasticene.) Note the complete arch—os calcis, cuboid and metatarsals 4 and 5. Also the shoulder on which the talus, the base of the inner arch, rests as a buttress, and the mid-tarsal joint.

of the feet for ten years as well as a careful examination of this year’s Cornell students indicates that 90 per cent of young men have enough splay dr pronation of the feet to cause some muscular and nerve strain, although in the majority of cases they do not appreciate the causes of reflex and fatigue signs.

A study of the anatomy of the feet will be of value.

Figures 1, 2 and 3 are from photographs of the bones of the foot. It *

* Reprinted by permission from “Health News”, New York State Dept, of Health.

Digitized by CjOOQle
will be seen that the basis of the foot is a composite arch. The main supporting element is the true arch, composed of the heel bone (os calcis), one of the instep-bones (cuboid) and the fifth and fourth toes. This strong arch is paralleled in front by a buttressed arch composed of the ankle (talus) and four bones of the instep group with the first, second, and third toes. The ankle bone, which is the base of. this buttress or inner arch, rests in a saddle shaped notch on the top of the heel bone. This buttress is quite flexible, due to the fact#that its large joints have long or loose capsular and other ligaments compared to the strong binding ligaments of the true arch. This is easily showm in the live foot.

FIGURE 2.

The foot mounted in the normal (adducted and supinated) position. Note the abducted heel bone (os calcis) its vertical relation to the ankle bone (talus) and the cuboid bracing under the other tarsal bones. The relative supination at the mid-tarsal joint and the curve from heel to base of great toe. Construct the triangle of support as shown in figure 4 and the point of weight on the articular surface of the talus.

Hold the heel <M a patient’s foot with one hand strongly against your knee; a considerable amount of play, limited only by the ligaments of the joints, will be found in moving the fore foot from side to side on the mid-tarsal joint as indicated in figure 4A. It will be noted that the two positions, — that of figures 2 and 4B the normal foot position, and that of figures 3 and 4A, the flat foot position—are easily obtained in any ordinary foot, without any stretching of ligaments or smashing of hones. These two positions of the foot may be obtained and maintained in the weight bearing foot.

This is beginning flat foot, -that the foot shall be for some reason bent outward on the mid-tarsal joint while weight bearing. The reasons for this bending of the foot may be (a) toeing out in the ordinary “flunky foot” position. It will be seen, testing one’s self or a patient, that out toeing takes place mainly in the mid-tarsal joint, very little in hip or

Digitized by U.ooQle
knee, and slightly in the ankle, and what does take place in the ankle is accompanied by outward rotation of the foot, in other words—inward tilting of the heel and ankle bones, (b) It you take a ruler in one hand, push one end to the right, the other will swing to the left. It by reason of the prevalent style ot shoes, which have the big toe room all cut away, the front of the toot and big toe are pushed outward, the back ot the fore foot will necessarily have to swing inward, bending on the joint demonstrated above and assuming the position of figures 4A and 3. The big toe joint may later be force.! into bunion position by the stretching of its ligaments, but that is another story. The same conditions may be induced by tight socks inside even the best ot shoes. Other causes may be the relaxation and letting go of the muscles due to fatigue or

figure j.	\

Foot mounted in the splay (abducted and pronated) position. Note the tilting of the calcis, the torsion and offset of the talus due to adduction of the calcis; and the curved surfaces of the articulations. The reverse curve, or rather angle, at the (navicular) keystone bone. Construct the triangle of support, and observe the position of the point of weight, the ankle joint surface of the talus. Both these feet were mounted on plasticene and then moulded to position in conformity with radiographs of the foot.

illness, and even conscious effort, for many men have stated to me that they have tried to walk on the inner side of the foot because they were wearing off the outer side of the heel and sole, not realizing that this is a result of walking toes out, the shoe striking on its outer edge and scraping on the pavement.

Whatever the cause, the result is that the ankle or “point of weight” is forced outside the triangle of support whose three points are the heel, the ball of the great toe and the ball of the little toe, as shown in figure 4A. The effect is the introduction of leverage or off center weight, and overwork of two shin muscles (the tibialis anticus and posticus) whose tendons pass one in front, the other behind the ankle bone to meet at their

Digitized by
730



attachment under the inner side of the foot. These muscles, whose function is balancing and walking, are now forced to carry the “leverage weight/* When they develop fatigue, as well as when the ligaments develop unequal strain, symptoms of flat feet ensue.

The bending and its attending phenomena may be shown in two ways, (i) Mark on the front of the ankle the lowest point where the edge of the shin bone may be felt. This represents quite accurately the

figure 4k

Foot in splay position; note bending at mid-tarsal joint with outward swing of the fore-foot and consequent shunting of the triangle of support from under the point of weight into as in 3; the apparent increased width of the heel bone due to tilting. Note tilting of the big toe bone as shown by outlines of the small sesamoid bones underneath compared with the same in 4B.

figure 4B

Foot in normal or natural position. Note difference of relations at the mid-tarsal joint. Direction of the forefoot with incurve instead of bulging angle at the inner side of the arch, narrow (vertical) heel bone and its swing around so that with the pull back and adduction of the forefoot the point of weight is well within the triangle of support. Note cuboid bone braced under the ankle and other arch bones. These two figures are tracings of x-rays of the same foot taken a few seconds apart. Measure length. The actual shortening of foot figure 4B is seven-eighths inch.

Digitized by

Google
781

point of weight; that is where the weight of the body rests upon the foot. Then (a) mark a chalk line or lay tape line on the floor. Place a patient’s foot on this line so that it comes out under the center of the heel and between the second and third toes. This is the axis of the foot. Note where the perpendicular from the point of weight would strike. The distance from the axis line represents the amount of tilt and bend of the mid-tarsal joint and instep or arch. As shown in figure 4B the point of weight should be vertically over the axis line, (b) Place a ruler alongside the foot under the inner ankle from the top ot the heel bone forward. The angle made by the foot forward of the mid-tarsal joint, and the distance from the ruler to the ball of the great toe are both measures of the amount of splay.

THE CORRECTION OF THE ORDINARY CASE.

(Have the patient standing on a low, strong table if convenient.) For the right foot, place yourself on his left side. Grasp the fore foot with the left hand thumb against the bulging arch or point of bend, grasp the heel with the right hand, thumb next to the left thumb. The patient should be standing with feet somewhat separated and parallel. Push hard with th® thumbs, and you will change the foot from the splay to the normal position. Do similarly for the left foot. This position is readily maintained, after the muscles become educated to do so, because it is the natural and proper position of the foot. Teach the patient to hold this position by gripping with the sole of the foot, particularly trying to grip and to draw the ball of the great toe straight back. This soon becomes easy. It is not rolling the foot but gripping or gathering it together. The foot will be found to shorten from one-half inch to an inch, according to the success of the effort and the size of the foot. Measure figure 4A and B. Have the patient learn to relax and to wriggle the toes to show that the toes muscles are not concerned in this action. Now show the patient the analogy of the foot and the ruler, so that he will realize that the foot and big toe swing inward when the inner arch is pulled together and pushed up by this muscle (the abductor hallucis). It is easy to demonstrate that the weak arch is tipped over on the strong arch of the little toes. Have the patient stand on the axis line on the floor or table, and move the foot so that the line passes in front under the ball of the great toe. The point of weight will then be seen outside the line, as is shown in figure 4B, considering the inner line of the triangle of support as the test line. Teach the patient to stand with foot axes, that is third toes straight to the front and arch gripped up, and to walk the same way. The “flat foot” has been corrected in a few seconds, a few days of constant attention will teach the reflex brain centers and the muscles to hold the foot in this position of equilibrium, the weight being inside the triangle of support. It is essential, however, that the patient realize that he9 not his shoes must do the holding up, and still quite necessary that shoes be worn which will permit the great toe to swing over straight. No arch can be maintained if the shoe prevents this in swing. A rule therefore for shoe fitting is that the inner line of the shoe from the heel, past the ball to the toe tip shall be quite straight. A ruler touching the side of the heel at the top of the heel bone would touch the shoe ah>o at the nail of the great toe. Moreover, there must be room for the toes under the leather. A tight flat “box” would prevent the toe position
732

just as much as a toothpick shoe. The great toe ftiust be permitted to come straight, and at that does not quite reach the normal position of pointing from the center of the heel (Meyer’s line) as shown in figure 4B.

One exercise is desirable,—to grip as is done in maintaining the arch, but to do it strongly and to repeat in a series of grips several times a day both when sitting and standing. This is the only muscle which needs developing. The others are constantly overworked in flat feet and need comparative rest. The cure of flat feet is to obtain and maintain correction. The procedure as shown does this.

Do not permit arch supports; particularly in pointed shoes. The ruler example shows why. If you try to lift the arch and yet keep the big toe pressed over, the result will be the breaking of the toe joint and bunion; moreover, the arch supports cause pressure atrophy of muscles and ligaments and do not cure the condition.

There is only one foot arch to be considered or used, and that is Whitman’s; which is, as he says, “a rather severe teacher.” It presses on points of the let-down foot and hurts so that the patient pulls the foot away from the hurt. Sometimes his muscles learn hold the foot up permanently, but empirically. In the less intelligent thi» may be used, or the wedge shape lift to the inner side of heel and sole of shoe may be employed to supplement conscious effort for a while. This is picfcrable and much cheaper. This general procedure does not apply, of course, to rigid or spastic feet, which need preliminary surgical and medical treatment.

With shoes on, an easy test is to place the feet touching at heels and toes, when two fingers should easily pass beteween the ankles, or if barefoot, at least the thumb. Note that the two sides of the Achilles tendon of the heel should have equal curves. Also it is very easy to note that the flat foot bulges the shoe out at the side below the inner ankle. Many men will not listen till pain develops, but more will appreciate the mechanical demonstration of the shifting of the point of weight and the fatigue which must develop in carrying leverage, as well as direct weight, upon the ankles.

The effect of workmen standing splay footed upon the accident and fatigue curve of a factory is undoubtedly stupendous.

Psychologically, just as slouched shoulders and head is the position of lack of self-respect, stiff knees indicate courage, and splay foot, subservience. So standing in the position of readiness, as the correct position is called, feet parallel and ankles up, is indubitably that position which conduces to self-reliance.

The foot is an organ well adapted to its function—that of holding up the body. It is rigid and strong with very little elasticity. That which usually passes for elasticity is the increased tilting and giving of the inner arch as with each step the over-burdened shin muscles give and then recover. The person who walks properly does not have or need this false springiness or “elasticity”.

Besides breaking the longitudinal arch, splay foot causes trouble with the anterior arch. When the foot is relaxed in splaying, the anterior arch is lost, since it is upheld solely by action of the transversalis pedis muscle. This muscle extends across the foot from the ball of the great toe to that of the little toe, and pulling them together holds up_the an-

Digitized by L^ooQle
733

terior arch. In this position the tips of the bones hold the proper relation to each other, and their little joint surfaces rub evenly. Paste a strip of paper across the front of your fingers held together and extended; cut it into four pieces with scissors, and "splay” the fingers by pushing against the side of the first finger. The pieces will show a "saw-tooth" effect which is part of what happens to the ends of the bones in the foot. Also imagine the cut spaces filled with fine threads straight across. The displacement of splaying would pull all of them to a diagonal position, and cause them to pull harder on the papers. This is what happens to the ligaments holding the toe bones. Thus three things happen to make anterior foot trouble, (i) The anterior arch has fallen, the second and third bones, usually lifted, are now taking weight and pressing on the sole. The skin of their sole unlike that of the first and fifth metatarsals, both deep and surface part, is not made to sustain pressure. Pain in these tissues, and callus in the outer skin develops. (2) The joints are out of true position. (3) The bones are pulled too tightly together pressing the joints and squeezing the nerves, muscles, etc., and frequently pain results which is usually referred to the dorsal region of the foot. This condition is cured by returning the foot to the normal position. Advanced flat foot and painful foot in much older persons may need special medical attention.

There are two main types of walking, the walk and the waddle, dependent upon whether one stands feet parallel or toed out.

how ro walk.

Standing with feet parallel, as the foot swings forward to step, the body should twist at the waist so that the hip of that side moves also slightly forward. This results in a smooth, powerful stride, the body gliding along, the feet planted with the least hammering, and pointing straight or even a trifle pigeon-toed because of the swing or twist at the waist. The functional leg is increased in length by the amount of this swing. The person who waddles twists at the waist also, but backward, so that if the step be with the left foot, the left hip goes definitely back and down. The leg being thus shortened in action, the pivot or neutral point may be four or five inches below the real hip joint, instead of above it as in the proper stride. Moreover, the waddler shortens the foot by planting it turned out. To prove this, toe a crack in the floor, then turn the toes out and the mechanical shortening to the forward direction will be quite obvious. Worese even, if possible, than the shortened leg and foot is the fact that the waddler drops his body at each step and has to raise it again, one or even two inches more than the walker. On the assumption that the extra drop, and therefore lift, is only one inch, this is equivalent to raising the body 120 step inches or ten feet every minute. Part of this drop is in the waist hip action and part in the "giving” of the arch and of the tibialis anticus and posticus muscles which are being over-taxed and forced into unnatural function. The weakened foot is the splay plus the fact that the direction of the body force or inertia is in the out-toeing over the inner weak arch, tipping it at each step, and pulling weakened muscles and ligaments.

Digitized by
734

WINTER RECREATION CENTERS.

ERNEST W. JOHNSON, SUPT. OF RECREATION, DEPT. OF PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS OF THE CITY OF ST. PAUL.

Year around recreation is a mighty factor in developing the youth and adult in any city. Places are provided where an enjoyable afternoon and evening can be spent by those who desire to play together and by those who desire to be entertained. The purpose of winter recreation centers is to provide a center of amusement so that boys and girls, men and women, have a place to go to spend their leisure time. The form of entertainment must necessarily be so varied that there are attractive features for all ages, and such entertainment must be of such a nature that there is much wholesome good derived therefrom. In our northern climate it is necessary to have indoor recreation apart from skating, which is one of the most healthful forms of recreation in the winter months, so it is necessary to have shelter.

Our four recreation centers are equipped with buildings spacious enough to accommodate about two hundred people at one time in games and club room activities. Although the buildings are not large enough to meet the demands, yet a great deal of work is done in them.

These buildings have a room for club work about 25x40, where games such as flinch, rook, lotto, pool, checkers, chess, and croconole are played. The gymnasiums average in size about 40x60, and are well equipped for basketball and organized classes in calisthenics and apparatus work. Off the gymnasium is found a shower and dressing room equipped with open lockers and six spray showers. The showers are heated by Humphrey gas heaters which automatically provide plenty of hot water.

Play is not play unless properly supervised. Our buildings and grounds are locked to the public unless there is a caretaker or directors to keep a watchful eye on those present. Two directors are present on the grounds from 2:45 P* M. until 10:00 P. M. six days of the week, and a caretaker with his relief from 8:00 A. M. until 10:00 P. M. The male director has full charge of the boys and men on alternating days between the gym and club rooms and likewise the female director with the girls.

To avoid congestion in our buildings it is necessary to organize classes of various ages, enroll members for these classes and do the work according to schedule. Boys and girls are classified according to ages, i. e., 6 to 10, 10 to 12, 12 to 14, 14 to 16, 16 to 18, and 18 and over. Each group is assigned a definite hour for particular work. Children under 16 have their schedule of work in the afternoons and adults or those over 16 in the evening.

Once a week at each center moving pictures are projected on the screen. A well balanced program is selected to suit the tastes of children and adults. The afternoon shows arc for the children only and the evening for adults and working boys and girls. This feature has been the means of creating interest in our centers and increasing attendance.

One evening a week (Saturday evening) is set aside from regular organized class work for community gatherings. Various organized dubs request the building in advance for a social gathering or general good

Digitized by

Google
735

time. This request is granted by the directors in charge. Strict supervision of these parties is given by the directors.

All ages, all nationalities, and all creeds patronize our centers. In the spring, fall and summer you will find groups on the play fields playing tennis, horse shoe, baseball, kitten ball, in the sand box and on the outdoor apparatus. In the building the club rooms are occupied by groups playing card games and reading books, while the six spray showers are being used.

in conclusion the greatest good that any community organization can do is to save the boys and girls from the evils of a great city, Occupy their leisure time during the entire twelve months of the year with wholesome recreation and they in turn will receive a training in team play, loyalty, courtesy and respect for property which will make them better citizens of our city, state and nation.

HYSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

»■  .... " ■■ »" ——— ■ " ———— —

pysiologic effects of exercise in the tropics.*—Under ordinary environments, the human body engaged in physical exercise protects itself-against undue changes of temperature by certain well known physiologic mechanisms. Muscular activity liberates heat in large amounts. The tendency to become overheated from this is averted by Increased surface blood flow, increased perspiration, and, under favorable conditions, to a certain extent by the deepened breathing, which removes heat from the organism by warming the expired air and saturating it with aqueous vapor. Despite these protective devices, the adjustment to normal is not instantaneous or perfect. Exercise temporarily affects the pulse rate, blood pressure and body temperature in ways that have often been described. Indeed, the adequacy and promptness of the corrective reresponses to exercise are often taken as criteria of the efficiency of the circulatory apparatus of patients.

In the trpoics, the added unusual environmental factors of a hot climate, often including great humidity, place a further task on the physiologic devices for counteracting the heat produced through exercise. How well and in what ways are these trying conditions met? There have been a number of investigations of the effects of heat and humidity on exercise, but they have for the most part been conducted under experimental conditions in temperate climates. Whether prolonged residence

* Young, IV. J.; Breitil, A.; Harris, J. J., and Osborne, IV. A.: Effect of Exercise and Humid Heat on Pulse Rate, Blood Pressure, Body Tem-perature, and Blood Concentration, Proc. Roy. Soc., London (B) gr: in (Jan. /) 1920.

Editorial in the “Journal Am. Med. Assoc., June 26, 1920.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
736

under the trying conditions of a humid tropical atmosphere would alter the physiologic performances is by no means clearly ascertained. A group of physiologists* working in the Australian Institute of Tropical Medicine at Townsville have made important records bearing on the subject. The climatic conditions during the hottest months of the year were essentially like those at Calcutta, the drybulb temperature standing between 80 and 90 F. with a highly saturated atmosphere. Vigorous exercise of short duration caused an increase in the pulse rate and blood pressure, both of which fell rapidly to the normal as in temperate climates, after discontinuation of the work. The corrective response to prolonged exercise was characterized by profuse sweating, so that very considerable losses of water often ensued. It was a quite common occurrence to lose as much as 1 kg. (2 1-5 pounds) in weight during an hour's walk at a moderate pace; and even as much as 3.2 kg (7 pounds) might be lost in the course of a two hours' walk. The water eliminated under such conditions is derived almost entirely from tissues other than the blood, so that no pronounced concentration of the latter occurs. Otherwise, serious results might ensue.

Even in temperate zones, vigorous exercise may bring about a transient rise in body temperature. In Townsville, prolonged but mild exertion, such as walking during the hot hours of the day, caused higher rectal temperatures, often amounting to 2 or 3 degrees Fahrenheit. The increase was more marked during the first part of the exercise than later. Hence, in contrasting conditions in the tropics with those obtaining elsewhere, the Australian observers remark that both exercise and humid heat play a part in producing a rise in blood pressure, pulse rate and rectal temperature. The degree of rise, however, is controlled by atmospheric conditions which influence the rate of cooling of the body.

* Ar. J. Youngy A. Breinly J. J. Harris and fV, A. Osborne.

GROWTH STIMULATING PROPERTIES OF ORANGE JUICE. The results

obtained by By field and his associates by the addition of orange juice to or omission from the diet of babies were uniform and constant. Under the conditions maintained, growth, as evidenced by the weight curves, was in all cases stimulated when orange juice was given. On the other hand, orange juice from which the antineuritic vitamin had been removed was without influence.—Original paper in the “Am. Journal of Diseases of Children," Chicago, May 1920.

school community centers and hygiene.—Schoolbuildings are intended primarily for educational purposes, but by virtue of a law which permits of their use by certain qualified persons specified in the text, they have latterly been appropriated to public purposes. There has been a tendency to make the school more and more a place for public gatherings and a refuge for services of every nature foreign to school purposes. As a result, the class-rooms are often occupied from 8 a. m. to 10 p. m., and the continuous occupation of the premises prevents thorough disinfection and cleansing, while the presence of a large number of people

Digitized by CjOOQle
737

constitutes in some measure an agency in the propagation of infectious diseases and a permanent danger to the health of the schoolchildren. The Conseil d’hygiene of the department of the Seine recently resolved to take all possible measures to restore the schools to their legitimate functions and to restrict their use for purposes other than teaching.—Letter from Paris, June 17, 1920 in “The Journal Am. Med. Assoc., 7, 10, 1920.

physical training in the universities.—Gruber discusses the need of more systematic physical training in German universities now that universal military training is a thing of the past. While the youth of the land need to be well trained physically, there is some danger of overdoing the matter, and allowing sport to assume too much of a professional aspect, of which there were signs even before the war.—‘Abstract from “Muenchener Med. WochcnschriJt" April 23, 1920.

mental hygiene of the child.—Those concerned with the welfare of children should ever bear in mind that the impulsiveness and ever-changing activity of a number of so-called fidgety children are but symptoms of mental fatigue, says W. L. Treadway {Am. Child Hyg. A. Tr.y Nov. 11-13, 1919). Normal children are active, impulsive and inquisitive. This is nature’s method of education, and children, therefore, should be allowed to exercise these mental traits. Rigid discipline tends to curb natural activities, which then seek outlets in other more or less roundabout ways. For example, too rigid discipline tends to cause the harboring of resentment against and disregard for those in authority. When once discipline is relaxed, the child, having failed to learn to control his impulses, frequently finds himself in difficult and compromising situations. Disciplinary measures should follow the form of substituting desirable activities for undesirable ones. To do this effectively those responsible for the welfare of the child, besides having an understanding of personality, should be able, by tact, to secure attention and discipline without apparent effort and without the knowledge of the child. This is especially important when the impulsiveness and activity of the child are so marked as to attract attention.

compulsory physical education.:—The senate recently passed an act to organize physical education on a national basis. The first article of the act provides for compulsory physical education of children of both sexes, boys over 6 years old until their embodiment in the army or navy, and girls in primary and secondary schools, according to the special regulations governing public education.—From Paris Letter July 16, 1920 in “The Journal Am. Med. Assoc., Aug. 7, 1920.

THE measure of physical fitness.—If the attainment of what is sometimes termed “athletic condition” is a factor in physical fitness and human efficiency, it becomes important to learn the criteria. Relative freedom from fatigue, effective muscular training, good health and similar expressions indicative of preparedness for bodily activity offer at best a vague implication regarding the physiologic basis for competent performance by the individual. What is involved in physical fitness? How can it be attained and how is it affected by exercise or training? If these

Digitized by CaOOQle
738

questions can be analyzed in a purely objective way free from the personal or individual bias of the examiner or the subject concerned, a distinct step in advance toward a real physiology of exercise will have been taken.

A recent writer* has concluded that the chief elements in athletic condition are a strong heart muscle, a highly efficient coronary circulation, and good peripheral vasomotor control. He hazards the further guess that there may be even deeper factors, such as a vigorous metabolism involving the ability to generate energy rapidly without undue accumulation of harmful end-products. Obviously, the possession of these faculties will enhance the ability to meet new muscular tasks with success and to adjust promptly to severe muscular effort. There have been numerous suggestions in the past for estimating these features of fitness. For example, it has been noted that the heart rate serves as an indication of condition, since it is relatively low in the active, well trained person, and that it is increased less on exertion in the athletic person and returns more promptly to its normal rate than it does in the case of the sedentary, inactive individual. A slow horizontal and a slow vertical postural pulse, with a small difference between the two, are also usually now regarded as signs of “excellent health.” Changes in blood pressure have also been referred to as indicative of the same features.!

The question of physical condition has been especially important in the disposal of.men in the service of the army. Reviewing the difficulties that beset the responsible officer, Schneider! has lately pointed out in The Journal that so far as the pulse rate criteria are concerned, in forming a judgment as to the physical condition of a man it is best to consider together the postural rate, the increase on standing and after exercise, and the time required for the rate to return to the normal after exercise. Those who are concerned in physical training as an aid to healthful living will be interested in Schneider’s account of the scoring scheme introduced in the medical inspection of the air service to take cognizance of six factors that represent cardiovascular changes or conditions. In a mathematical way it recognizes, with a minimum of “personal bias,” to quote Schneider, that fatigue or derangement may be evidenced in the high heart rate during reclining; during standing; in the number of beats the heart rate increases when the standing and reclining postures are compared; in the acceleration of the pulse rate after exercise; in the time taken by the pulse to return to normal, and, lastly, in the rise or fall in the systolic blood pressure on standing. A low score not only helps to eliminate the less fit but also acts as a stimulus to the person who needs to exercise in such a way that “his heart will have to work harder, the coronary vessels deliver a full volume of blood, the the vasomotors be practiced in their work, the respiration deepened, and metabolism kept going at an increased rate.”* Apparently we now have a more satisfactory test of cardiovascular fitness.

* Manual of Medical Research Laboratory, IVar Department, Air Service, Division of Military Aeronautics, Washington, D. C., igr8i p. 85.

t Crampton: Proc. Soc. Exper. Biol. & Med. 12 : 7/9, 79/5. Sewall: Am. J. M. Sc. ij8 : ?86y 7979.

t Schneider, E. C.: A Cardiovascular Rating as a Measure of Physical Fatigue and Efficiency, J. A. M. A. 74 : 1507 (May 29) 1920.

Editorial in “ The Journal Amer. Med. Assoc. 7, 10, 1920.
739

Gymnasium and playgroun

FRED FOERTSCH, Pittaburg, Pa.

FREE EXERCISES FOR MEN.*

BY JOS. WEISS MU ELLER, LOUISVILLE TU RNGEMEI ND E.

*This drill is one of the model numbers shown at the 32nd national festival of the American Gymnastic Union, Chicago, June, 1921.

Music: “Stars and Stripes Forever,0 by Sousa.

Two counts to a measure.

The music is played as written three timesy omit the last part each time. The introduction is played the first time only.

There are three groups of exercises, consisting of three exercises each and one intermediate exercise. Two counts to a movement, each exercise to be executed left, right, left, right.

Formation—Ranks of five in open order—

1	2	3	4	5

Introduction—yi turn left, count 1-2, repeat all three times more—

(counts 3—8), 4 measures.

GROUP I.

Exercise No. /.

A	Deep knee bend and swing arms sideward	..................... 1-2

B	Jump to side stride stand, place hands in	rear	of	neck.......... 3-4

C	Jump to squat stand ............................................ 5-6

D	Straighten legs backward to support lying	frontways............. 7-8

E	Bend arms and raise left leg backward ......................... 9-10

F	Return to position D............................................n—12

G	Return to position C .........................................13-14

H	Straighten to starting position ...............................15-16

Repeat all right, left and right .............................17-64

32 meas.

Exercise No. 2.

A Swing left leg forward and swing arms fore-upward................ 1-2

B Layout left backward left (foot on toes) and place hands on floor 3-4 C Circle left leg forward under left hand (right knee remains bent)

raise the left arm sideward ................................... 5“6

D % turn right on the right foot, swing arms sideward, and place

hands on floor ................................................. 7~8

E Straighten the right leg backward to support lying frontways . . . 9-10

F Return to squat stand ..........................................11-12

G Jump to side stride stand and swing the arms fore-upward .......13-14

H Jump to starting position and swing arms side-downward .........I5-1^

Repeat all right, left, right .................................17-64

Repeat 1st Exercise.

32 meas.

Digitized by

Google
740

Exercise No. j. In Divided Order.

Files No. I -3-5 Repeat 1st exercise four times.

Files 2 - 4 face No. 3 and repeat 2nd exercise left, right, left

and right ............................................................ 1—64

On the last two counts all face front

32 meas.

Exercise No. 4. Intermediate Exercise (trio.)

A No. 1 encircling No. 2, starting left foot marching on the lines

of a square ...................................................... 1-16

No. 5 does same, starting with right foot and encircling No. 4 . . 1—16 No. 3 take three steps forward and close, count 1-4, same backward, count 5-8, two closing steps left and two right, count 9-16 1—16 No. 2 and No. 4 rest for sixteen counts......................... 1—16

B Now—No. 2 starts right foot march around No. 1—No. 4 same

but start left around No. 5 - No. 1 - 3 - and 5 rest..............I7“3a

Pose.

C No. 3 jump to side stride stand and place hands in rear of neck. 1—2 No. 2 lunge left sideward, place left hand on No. 3 right knee and grasp No. 3 right elbow with his right hand and raise right

leg sideward, arms straight ....................................... 1—2

No. 4 does same, but reverse ...................................... 1—2

No. I and No. 5 face to center, and squat stand.................... 1—2

Straighten legs backward to support lying frontways...............33“36

Hold pose for twelve counts ......................................37—44

Return to starting position in last four counts ..................45—48

*	24	meas.

GROUP II.

Exercise No. 1.

A Place left foot obliquely forward outward and bend arms to

strike over shoulders ............................................ 1—2

B Lunge left obliquely forward outward straighten arms sideward and swing arms sidedownward, swing the left arm forward upward, raise the right arm bent shoulder high, right hand in front

of left shoulder, look upward..................................... 3—4

C Change knee bending, bend trunk forward and strike both arms obliquely forward downward toward left foot “arm in line with

left leg” ...................................................*.	5-6

D	Return	to position (B) ......................................... 7—8

E	Repeat	(C) .................................................... 9—10

F	Return	to position (B).........................................11—12

G	Return	to position (A) ........................................13—14

H	To starting position ............................................15—16

Repeat all right, left, right ...................................17—64

32 meas.

Exercise No. 2.

A Jump to side stride stand, swing arms forward upward ............. 1—2

B Jump to closed stand, beni knees deep, lower arms sideward .. . 3—4 C yi turn left lunge left forward, swing arms sidedownward, bent!
left arm over head, elbow pointing forward, place right hand on

left knee ..................................................... 5-6

D Raise right leg backward, straighten left knee, lower trunk forward, swing arms fore-downward and raise arms sideward (to

balance stand frontways) ...................................... 7-8

E	Lower right leg, swing arms	sidedownward	and	foreupwards .. . 9-10

F	Lower trunk forward, arms remain	in	line	with	trunk..........11-12

G	Raise trunk .................................................13-14

H Jump with Y turn right, swing arms sidedownward to starting

position .....................................................15-16

Repeat all right, left, right	...........................17-64

32 meas.

Exercise No. j. In Divided Order.

Files N#. 1 and No. 5 repeat exercise No. 1 four times, No. 1 start right and No. 5 start left.

Files No. 2 and No. 4 repeat exercise No. 2 four times, No. 2 start left and No. 4 start right.

File No. 3 do exercise No. 1 of group 1 four times................. 1-64

32 meas.

Exercise No. 4. Intermediate Exercise (trio).

The first 32 counts are the same as in group No. 1—counts 1-32 No. 2 and No. 4 face center, place hands on floor and do hand stand count 1-4. No. 3 jump to side stride stand arms sideward to assist No. 2 and No. 4 in their hand stand. No. 1

place left foot sideward, bend arms to thrust....................33-34

Lunge left sideward, straighten left arm obliquely sideupward

right opposite turn head left ............ ......................35-36

No. 5 do same, but right hold position for 8 counts..............37-44

Return to starting position .....................................45“4^

24 meas.

GROUP III.

Exercise No. /.

A Raise left leg sideward, swing left arm sideward and right arm

side-upward turn head left..................................... 1-2

B Swing left leg in rear of right foot and kneel on left knee, bend left arm, left hand in front of right shoulder lower right arm

sideward, turn head right ..................................... 3-4

C Bend upper trunk backward, raise the bent left arm over head,

lower right arm side-downward and bend in rear................. 5-6

D Return to position (B) .......................................... 7-8

E Lunge left sideward, Y double arm circle right ................. 9-10

F Bend trunk right, place left hand in rear of neck and place right

hand on hip....................................................n-12

G Raise trunk and straighten arms upward .........................13-14

H Close left foot to right. Lower arms side-downward .............15-16

Repeat all right, left, right ................................17-64

32 meas.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
742

Exercise No. 2.

A Lunge left sideward, raise arms right sideward, left arm bent

left hand in front of right shoulder turn head.................... 1—2

B turn left knee right y£ double arm circle right look upward . .	3—4

C - Bend upper trunk backward, lower arms sideward palms up ....	5—6

D	Return	to	position	(B)	.......................................... 7—8

E Straighten the left leg sideward, lower trunk right, place hand on floor to side support lying right sideward and place left hand in

rear of neck ...................................................... 9—10

F	Return	to	position	(B)	........................................ 11-12

G	Return	to	position	(A)	. .....................................13—14

H	Close left	foot to right	to starting position .....................15—16

Repeat all right, left, right .....................................17—64

32 mcas.

Exercise No. j. In Divided Orde“.

Proceed as in Group No. II.

Files No. 3 perform second exercise on Group I four times... 1—64

32 meas.

Exercise No. 4. Intermediate Exercise.

Same as in Group I ........................................... 1—48

24 meas.

Note:	The	last	part	of	music	is	played	for	closing	ranks,	etc.

WAND SWINGING EXERCISES.*

BY O. SIMMEN, BIRMINGHAM, PITTSBURG, TURNVEREIN.

GROUP I.

* This drill is one of the model numbers shown at the 32nd national festival of the American Gymnastic Union, Chicago, June 1921.

Music:	“The	American	Red	Cross March.”

Exercise / (32 Measures.)

Layout left forward bend arms. (Wand in front of shoulders)

1-2 ............................................................. 1	M.

Lunge left	forward and straighten	arms	upward 3-4........... 1	M.

Change knee bending, hold tight left end, right hand slides to left hand. (Wand oblique fore-downward.) 5-8...................... a	M

Straighten right knee, arms upward, (Wand vertical overhead.) 9

Bend left knee, slide right hand to right end of wand. (Wand oblique back-downward right.) (Left hand in front of right shoulder.) 10-12 ....................................................... 2	M.

Kick left leg forward. 13

Position -	Lower arms and	left leg.	14-16.................. 2	M.

Repeat all	right forward.	17-32 ............................ 8	M.

Repeat all	left and right.	1-32 ............................16	M.

Exercise 2.	(32 Measures.)

Layout left sideward and raise wand right side-ward. (Left

Digitized by v^.ooQle
743

hand in front of right shoulder.) 1-2 ............................. I	M.

Lunge left sideward and raise wand	upward. 3-4................. 1	M.

Change knee bending, leave go right hand, arm oblique. (Right arm sideupward left arm side-downward in line with wand.) Turn

head left. 5-8 ...................................................  2	M.

Straight right knee, grasp wand with both hands at left end.

(Arm and wand forward horizontally. 9

Cross layout left in rear, wand over right shoulder. (As batting.)

IO-I2 ............................................................. 2	M.

Kick left leg sideward—wand forward, grasp proper grip.—13

Position lower arms and left leg. 14—16 ....................... 2	M.

Repeat all right sideward 17-32 ............................... 8	M.

Repeat all left and right. 1-32 ...............................16	M.

Exercise j. (32 Measures.) Golf Exercise.

Layout left sideward wand held at left end direct forward horizontally. 1-2 ...................................................... 1	M.

Wand over right shoulder and bend trunk slightly forward look

at floor. 3-4 ..................................................... 1	M.

Swing wand downward and return. (As striking at ball; aiming.)

5-6 ................................................................ 1	M.

Repeat 5-6.	7-8 .............................................. 1	M.

Lunge sideward left, wand swings downward and oblique side-upward, turn trunk one-eighth left, look at end of wand. 9-12 ... 2 M. Kick sideward left, wand grasped in proper grip upward.—13

Position lower wand and left leg. 14-16 ........................ 2	M.

Repeat all right sideward.	17-32 ............................. 8	M.

Repeat all left and right.	1-32 ..............................16	M.

Exercise 4.	(32	Measures.)

Change of exercise 1 and 2 as follows:

The center file repeats Exercise 1, while outer files repeat Exercise 2 beginning toward center. 1-64................................32	M.

GROUP II.

Exercise /.	(32	Measures.)

Layout left backward, bend arms, wand in front of shoulders.

1-2 ................................................................... 1	M.

Lunge left backward and straighten arms upward. 3-4............... 1	M.

Change knee bending, leave go right hand sw'ing wand oblique back-downward left, in left hand; right arm guard over head. 5-8 . 2 M.

Close left to right foot, arms upward holding wand at left end. (Wand vertical overhead.)—9

Bend knees deep, wand oblique back-downward over head.

10-12 .......................................................... 2	M.

Straighten knees and grasp wand proper position upward and kick backward, left.—13

Position lower wand and left leg. T4-16 .....................2	M.

Repeat all beginning right backward. 17-32 ..................... 8	M.

Repeat all left and right. 1-32 ................................16	M.

Exercise 2.	(32	Measures.)

Quarter turn left with lunge left forward, wand oblique. (Left

arm forward right hand overhead.) 1-2 .......................... 1	M.

Change knee bending, swing wand through the upward position

Digitized by CjOOQle
744

and oblique downward right. (Left hand in front of right shoulder.)

3”4 ...........................................................      1

Change knee bending, let go right hand, swing wand through the upward position, oblique fore-upward left. Right arm stays.) 5-8.. 2 M.

One-eighth turn, wand upward vertically overhead and slide left to right foot.—9

Layout left backward, wand oblique back' upward overhead. (Striking Position.) 10-12 .......................................... 2	M.

One-eighth turn right with kick left sideward, regrasp wand to proper position arms forward.—13

Lower leg and arms to starting position. 14-16 ................ 2	M.

Repeat right. 17-32 ........................................... 8	M.

Repeat all left and right. 1-32 ...............................16	M.

Exercise j. (32 Measures.) The Javelin Throw.

Layout left sideward. (Grasp wand at center right hand under grip.) Arms forward. 1-2 ...........................................  1	M.

Lunge left sideward, arms left sideward. Aiming. (Head turned left.) 3-4 ................................................... 1	M.

Change knee bending, wand swings through the upward position releasing left hand, bend trunk right sideward. (Arms are now sideward ready for the throw.) 5-6....................................... 2	M.

Glide left sideward and close - 9

Glide left sideward.—10.

Leap with one-half turn left, landing on right foot while changing arm position, n-12 .............................................  2	M.

Lower arms and leg to starting position. 13-16 ................ 2	M.

Repeat all left. 17-32 ........................................ 8	M.

Repeat all right two times. 1-32...............................16	M.

Exercise 4.	(32 Measures.)

Change of Exercise 1 and Exercise 2 as follows:

The center file performs Exercise 1.

The outer files perform Exercise 2 toward and from the center and repeat. 1-64 ......................................................  32	M.

The 32nd national festival of the American Gymnastic Union held at Chicago June 29, 30 and July 1, 2 and 3 was, perhaps, the best festival ever celebrated by the Union. 2155 men an<^ women took an active part in the cc*npetition. Work began every morning at 7:30 o’clock and continued during the day until 6 p. m. The evenings were taken up by exhibitions. Over 200 judges, men and women, were necessary to conduct the competitions. An auditing committee of 18 men worked so efficiently that the distribution of honors took place exactly as outlined at 6 o’clock on July 3rd.

We are glad to announce that it will be possible for us to publisji many of the best model exhibition numbers presented during the festival.

At the request of many subscribers we shall also publish condensed lists of the winning teams and the points made by them.

Digitized by
746

XTRACTS AND REPRINTS

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS

Notes from England.

The “New York Herald” recently brought an interesting report from its London correspondent that throws an illuminating light on the progress of athletics for women in England. There, as well as here, the advocates of bodily culture are divided into two camps, the extremely conservative and the so-called radicals. The Herald reports as follows:

A group of prominent woman educators met this week and declared that in view of race preservation girls must stop playing boys’ games. They said emphatically that if girls win too much for their teams the loser will be the next generation; that their games do not square with humanity.

I)r. Arabella Kenealy, a medical writer, said:

“Women who, owing to faulty heredity or abnormal training, develop masculine instead of feminine attributes, do this at the cost of the masculine potential, which is transmitted by father to daughter, in trust as it were, from the masculine line. The result is that athletic women, or women otherwise masculine in type, produce feminine off-spring mainly, and seldom sons. When sons are born to them they are liable to be puny and delicate, and generally are of an inferior type. Since it is chiefly girls of the upper middle classes who are affected by athletic training, these being the ones who mainly supply brains, enterprise and talent, they are rapidly failing to provide their numerical complement of males to pioneer progress, to say nothing of their failure to provide sons and daughters who are of true physique and possess the manly talents and initiative, that have set the .Anglo-Saxon race in the van of evolution.

(Editor: This really is the exact opposite of what the noted English authority on Heredity says, for Dr. Saleby states that an over-indulgence in physical work adversely affects the femaleness of the ovum and tends to produce males).

Dr. Kenealy further stated something that leads one to think that if it were true the teachers in charge of this work needed training and enlightenment. She said:

“Besides, our young girls who are too sportive and boylike are almost always bad tempered and unsound.”

Sir J. Crichton Brown said: “Physical excerise for girls is as necessary as it is for boys, but in both cases there must be regard for anatomical and physiological considerations. To ignore sexual differences in this matter will be courting disaster.”

“Muscular development in girls does not make for elasticity, and woman cannot carry out her proper functions if she is a mass of muscle,” said Miss Annie Radman, director of the Michain School of Physical Development.

Mrs. Roger Watts, an expert on poise, said that feminine muscle destroys rather than makes poise.

The educators then named a committee to draw up a constructive

Digitized by C^ooQLe
746

programme for the girl’s physical education along such lines as dancing, swimming, fencing and housework.

The modern athletic girl, however, had many strong defenders, for the London School of Medicine for Women took a determined stand against the educators and backed up their views with facts based upon experience.

"We go in for sports every time as strenuously as possible," said the secretary, "and all our women doctors are indorsed. We are champions in the net ball- contests, and have good hockey and lacrosse teams. During training, chocolates, cake and smoking are forbidden and girl athletes must go to bed early."

"Girls are much healthier and fitter as a result of vigorous exercise," said Dr. Alice Benham. "I have found that in maternity cases the worst have been among women of the blue stocking feminine type, who spent mosj of their lives at study and knitting."

Other prominent women doctors take the same stand and call the reasoning of the educators bosh and nonsense.

"This is just part of the scheme to get women back into the old fashioned atmosphere," said Dr. Jane Walker. "Athletics are exceedingly good for girls and I think there is no finer game for little boys and girIs together than football. As a matter of fact, an invitation at Oxford and Cambridge a few years ago proved that athletic women had beautiful children and plenty of them."

"It is another of those silly mid-Victorian fetishes which still linger in a certain type of academic mind," said Dr. Sloan C. Jesser. "Ne reasonable person wants a Victorian girl around any more."

She added, however, that there was a general tendency to ®vor-estimate and overemphasize the value of athletics to both sexes.

English girls are certainly the greatest feminine athletes in the wsrld. They not only play tennis, fence and dance, but they are good footbsiH players, rowers, and they hold great track meets, where hurdlers, high jumpers, weight throwers and sprinters make good marks. The gir! hockey leagues here draw big crowds, and their recent easy handling of the Americans showed they had an astonishing superiority in every match. Girls of a restaurant firm like that of the large chain restaurants have a London football league with eight teams represented in it and regular week end games, and there is as much interest in their games as there is in any intercity baseball league in America. But as the league president said, answering the educators:

"Our girls are too busy training and keeping fit to answer these hothouse charges. It is funny we didn’t hear them when girls drove motor lorries over shell torn French roads. The war opened the eyes of the girls to. a bigger, broader life, and in our struggle to make ourselves equal with the other sex we think we have a right to get the benefit of glorious outdoor sports as the men understand them."

Extracts from the "Monthly of Gymnastic sy Play and Sporty * Berlin, March, 1921.

An article of peculiar interest to Americans is a translation from the "Official Swimming Guide," 1919-20, Thos. E. Wilson & Co., New York

Google
747

The article translated is from the pen of G. B. Affleck of Springfield College and has to do with the physiologic effects of swimming.

The “Regulations for Physical Exercise,” of October 1920 have been approved by the Chiefs of Staff of the Army and the Marines and the Minister of War. They include calisthenics without and with the rifle, athletics, swimming, apparatus exercises, and games, especially of a military nature.

The “Student and Alcohol.” Dr. Robt. Gaupp, the writer says in part:	“The	German	student of the future will be poor and will need

what little money he has for food, shelter, clothing, books, and instruments: he will have a struggle to exist, and will not tolerate alcohol easily. If he indulges in drinking bouts, in which he consumes three or four quarts of beer, he will deprive fifteen or twenty under-nourished children of the equivalent of a nourishing bowl of soup and may be a factor in causing rickets or tuberculosis, fr6m malnutrition.”

Announcement is made of five sessions of two weeks each in the study of football and light athletics, to be held at Stadion this spring and summer.

The German Gymnastic Association is making a determined effort to remove even the slightest trace of competition for prizes of value among its members.

January of this year saw the first issue of “Physical and Vocational Education,” a journal published monthly at Manilla, P. I. Thirty of its forty pages are devoted to the Physical Section, included in which are many articles of merit. One on physical education in the Philippine public schools, indicates that rapid progress is being made in securing universal physical training in the schools.

Announcement is made of the Carnival Athletic Meet in Manila, January 29 to February 6, also of the Far Eastern Championship Games to take place in Shanghai in May. At the latter, the Philippine Islands will be represented by strong teams in track, swimming, soccer, baseball, basket ball, volley ball and tennis.

Reports of contests in the following sports by teams repreocnting high and normal schools, colleges, and athletic clubs show that there is keen interest in competitive epoxts, especially in baseball, track, tennis, basketball, swimming, soccer and indoor baseball, the last named being especially popular with girls’ teams.

Health hints, hints to baseball and track men, and physical education notes comprise the remainder of the articles. Among the last, the following are of special interest:

“The Board of Regents, University of the Philippines, approved the resolution adopted by the University Council at its meeting November 20, requiring one hour of physical training of all students during their four years residence in the University, beginning July 1, 1921.”

“The Bureau of Education has established a two year’s course in physical education at the Philippine Normal School with a view to preparing technically trained teachers who will carry out its physical trarn-ing program.”

Digitized by c^ooQle
748

N OTES AND COMMENT^

ENGLISHMEN DISCUSS CORPORAL PUNISHMENT.

The members of the Medical Officers of Schools Association recently passed a resolution that caning on the hand should be abolished, and, at their invitation, head masters and head mistresses of all types of schools met the other day to discuss the question.

The objection to his form of punishment was that it involved grave risk of injury to the delicate mechanism of the hand, and various substitutes were suggested. The general opinion seemed to be that, in the present condition of juvenile human nature, at any rate, some form of corporal punishment is necessary.

The medical verdict that caning on the hand is harmful will certainly be regretted by the primary-school teacher, who has found it, in the last resort, and 'discreetly used, an effective form of correction. For reasons which are peculiar to the elementary school, any other form of corporal punishment has been thought inadvisable, and we are afraid that the English parent will view the use of the tawse, so picturesquely described by Dr. Nash, with grave suspicion.

The conference, of course, brings up once again the whole question of corporal punishment. Compared with the state of affairs in our grandfathers’ time, its practice in the primary schools, at least, is almost negligible, and many good teachers find it possible to do without it altogether. The professional opinion is, however, that a certain minimum of corporal punishment in the primary school, where classes are so large, is inevitable, while the slight form which it takes is held to be, and we think rightly, just a harmless corrective.—Teacher s Worlds London.

Joseph Lee, in speaking of the function of “Community Service” says:

The causes of unrest are not economic but spiritual, not physical but moral. What we are witnessing is the revolt of men who see life passing away without their ever having lived, who face the prospect of carrying their ideals and their aspirations unfulfilled and unspoken to the grave.

Man under our industrial system,—an artist given no opportunity for expression, an inventor employed as an automaton, a thinker tied to a fool-proof machine,—is the victim of disappointed instinct, subject, accordingly, to all kinds of nervous and emotional disturbance. It is not personal indulgence but spiritual ideals he is called upon to sacrifice, not his physical comfort but his life.

The radical remedy for this condition, if it is ever found will be in making industry once more expressive of man’s constituting instincts, of the lines of life to which he is by nature irretrievably committed. Blessed be those prophets of the future who shall some day awaken us to the

Digitized by CjOOQle
749

truth that it is chiefly in our work tljat we must live and shall arouse us to acting upon that truth.

Meantime the great majority must live upon the margin left outside their work or die. All must so live to some extent because no work can quite convey the spiritual current of a man. It is to the cultivation of life upon this margin that Community Service is addressed.

OLD TIME BASEBALL.

When the first professional association of baseball clubs was created in New York in 1871 there were five eastern clubs in the organization— those of Philadelphia, New York, Brooklyn, Boston and Troy; a somewhat odd selection. Of the ten clubs comprising the entire National Association eight finished the season. One representing Philadelphia bore the name that Connie Mack’s outfit wears today—the Athletics. The members of that team of 1871 were: Malone, catcher; McBride, pitcher; Fisher, first base; Reach, second base; Meyerle, third base; Rad-cliff, short stop; Cuthbert, left field; Sensenderfer, centre field; Heubell, right field.

Nice little game that was away back in *67, before this association was organized, when the Athletics beat Boston 115 to 74. The score of the Athletics included 17 home runs.

Pitching then was like some of today’s base ball manoeuvres—underhanded. The	captains of the	contending teams	chose an acceptable

umpire from the crowd at the time of the contest.

A famous	old	Philadephia	team was that of	the Olympics, which

had its arena	first	at Eleventh	and Berks streets	and later at Twenty-

fifth and Jefferson	streets. The	admission charged	was twenty-five cents.

The iron men of those days scorned masks, gloves and such effeminate paraphernal a.

But much of the time the ball wasn’t traveling so fast. The pitcher was not allowed to raise his hand above his waist. If a fielder caught the ball on the first bound the batter was out. The batter could ask for a ball at any level—shoulder, waist or knee high—and the pitcher had lots of chances instead of being severely restricted by the umpire to a few balls.

The game in those piping times was often made the excuse for the frenzied finance of the gamblers openly brandishing satchelfuls of money and making bets on every detail of the contest.

In a celebrated game the Clippers of Philadelphia in 1869, garnered 87 runs, while their opponents made but 9.

In another game in that year the Lowell team acquired 102 run while the Andersons, of Lynn achieved a sum total of 8. To the victors in such contests belonged the exhaustion of covering a considerable mileage at top speed.

As long ago as 1859 a baseball reporter wrote:	“Baseball	differs

from cricket, especially in there being no wickets.

“The bat is held high in the air. When the ball has been struck the ‘outs’ try to catch it, in which case the striker is ‘out’; or, if they can not do this, to strike the striker with it when he is running, which will likewise put him ‘out.’

Digitized by CjOOQie
750

Instead of wickets there are ^t this game four or five marks called bases one of which, being the one at which the striker stands, is called ‘home.’

‘ As at cricket the point of the game is to make the most runs between bases. The party which counts the most runs wins the day/’

The players of the old-style game would hardly recognize the sport in its present day developments of speed and science.—Phila. Ledger.

ANNUAL MEETING OF SMOKE PREVENTION ASSOCIATION.

Many matters of interest to heating engineers were brought up at the convention of the Smoke Prevention Association which was held in Chicago, October 5—8, after a lapse of two years. Thomas F. Clarke presented a paper on “Chimneys and Chimney Draft,” in which he discussed steel stacks, guyed and self-supporting, concrete stacks, common brick and radial brick stacks, as well as wooden stacks used in certain chemical work. He also went into the matter of design.

Dr. E. Vernon Hill, acting chief sanitary inspector of Chicago was also one of the speakers, his subject being “A Suggested Solution of the Municipal Smoke Problem.” Dr. Hill suggested action by cities in obtaining the properties of gas companies and adding by-product ovens so that all domestic coal coming to the city could be treated to recover the by-products. This would leave the residue, semi-coke, available for domestic heating. Detailing his plan he proposed the adoption of block plans for heating and stated that surveys are now being made on the north side of Chicago with a view of installing such block plants, which could serve an entire block or several blocks. He figured that the adoption of this plan, including the operation of city gas plants in the way he suggested, would mean a saving of $2,000,000,000 in fuel throughout the country. Several papers were presented on the use of pulverized coal.—Heating Magazine.

James O. Murfin, Regent of the University of Michigan, announced that outdoor athletics will be compulsory for every student at the university. Hereafter, no student will be permitted to graduate without having taken the courses prescribed to turn him out as near physically perfect as possible, he said.

The regents decided on this, Mr. Murfin said, in view of the lessons of the war which showed that Americans, both men and women are not properly developed physically. Courses in playground instruction and coaching will be given so graduates may introduce playground work and coach teams in their own communities. All these activities will be under the new department of physical education.

Speak ng of athletics, Mr. Murfin said that there should be three classes of athletes instead of two as at present. College athletes should be added to the classification of amateur and professional. If a man is a bona fide college student, has completed his year of residence, and is a candidate for a degree, he should be permitted to play, regardless of whether he has earned money to put him through school by athletics. College competition would be keener, he said, the atmosphere would be purer and the liars fewer for such a rule.

Digitized by kjOOQle
761

Since his appointment ten years ago as Superintendent of Public Instruction in Pennsylvania Dr. T. Finnegan has worked incessantly for the advancement of the teaching profession. At his request the last state legislature passed a minimum salary bill for all types of public schools. So far as cities of the first class arc concerned teachers in Elementary Schools now begin with #1200. and in eight annual increments of $100.00 each reach a maximum of $2000.00. Teachers in Junior High Schools begin with $1800.00 and run to $2800.00. In the Senior High Schools they begin with $1800.00 and in eight increments of $175.00 each they reach a maximum of $3200.00. Under prescribed rules a teacher when reaching the maximum may receive $400.00 yearly additional.

But, according to the state law the teachers are expected to have definite professional training before in certain positions they can reach the maximum salary. In high schools, for instance teachers now must have a degree in order to be appointed. Those who are now in high school positions can not advance beyond $2800.00 unless they have a degree. Naturally, this will mean that those who haven’t enough credits will enter schools and work for what they need.

The essentials for good daylight illumination of schoolrooms are few and simple.

1.	The selection of a site and plans such that neighboring trees or buildings shall in no case rise more than 150 above the horizontal plane of the bottom of the windows. Large trees, so close to the walls that they can be trimmed up to clear an angle of 6o° with the horizon, may be permitted in warm climates, where it is important to keep down heat.

2.	Placing the windows high enough to permit light from them to fall at an angle of 150 to 40° in the part of the room most distant from them, shutting off all glare of light below 150, and placing such windows on all sides of the room available, and especially to the south, where the most light is obtainable.

3.	Controlling direct sunlight by light shades that will intercept and diffuse it, and drawn out of the way when not needed for this purpose. Placing all dark shades at the bottom of the window, and drawing them up only as needed to raise the level below which glare is excluded from the eyes. Using polished shutters that swing on a horizontal axis to reflect light on the ceiling when obstructions to clear sky render this help necessary.

BOOK REVIEWS.

“national intelligence tests.” A second set of both tests, Scales A and B, has been prepared by the Committee of the National Research Council, and published by the World Book Company, Yonkers-on-Hudson, New York.

The use of the “National Intelligence Tests” will enable a teacher:

1.	To classify pupils for instruction on the basis of intelligence.

2.	To detect many subnormal or abnormal children.

3.	To select unusual children for special observation.

4.	To make a tentative beginning in the guidance of the vocational

Digitized by CjOOQle
752

choices of children, as among labor, trades, and professions. The scales have been planned for use in Grades 3 to 8, and with pupils entering high school. They have a wider utility, however, and will suffice for determining the mental status of all Englishspeaking children between the ages of eight and eighteen, except those of mental age less than eight or above average adult.

There are many advantages in using two short scales as contrasted with one long one. The period of examination does not exceed thirty minutes. Either scale used alone will serve for the rapid survey of a school system. The use of two scales on different days greatly increases the reliability of results and is recommended by the committee.

A specimen set may be procured for 50 cents, postpaid. The cost for a set of twenty-five of each scale and of each form is $1.60.

“the physiology of muscular exercise” by F. A. Bainbridge, 215 pages, 6 by 9 inches, illustrated by diagrams. Published by Longmans, Green and Co., New York and London. Price $3.75.

This volume by the well-known professor of physiology at the University of London is one of the most valuable books published for teachers of physical education. The theme of the book is “the behavior of the body during muscular exercise.” Beginning with a chapter on the sources of muscular energy, the author takes up all phases of his topic and ends with a chapter on the after-effects of exercise, and over-stress of the heart. With the modern tendency to rate the effectivenesss of every form of physical training work by its effect upon the heart, this monograph with its studies and deductions should be in the library of every progressive teacher of physical education.

“A Brief Treatise on Standard Tests and Measurements” is the title of a little pamphlet prepared by Mr. William C. Ferguson of the World Book Company.. .Yonkers-on-Hudson, New York. This booklet of 32 pages, and another little pamphlet entitled “Bibliography of Tests for Use in Schools” will be of great assistance to all teachers who want to know more about the numerous tests now conducted in schools of all kinds, the reasons for such tests and the results to be looked for.

“human heredity” by Casper L. Redfield. 107 pages, 5 1-2 by 8 inches. Published by Heredity Publishing Co., Chicago. In this booklet Mr. Redfield has brought together many facts to prove that psychologists are wrong in their statements that acquired characteristics can not be transmitted by parents to offspring. The book is well worth reading by all physical education teachers.

WANTED—Assistant Physical Director, Multnomah Amateur Athletic Club. Salary, $1800 per year. Make application, giving age, references etc- Address, O. C. Mauthe, Multnomah Club, Portland, Oregon.

Digitized by

Google