Vol. 8.

APRIL, 1901.

No. 86

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago Normal School, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 468 E. Water Street, Milwaukee, Wis,

(From the American Physical Education Review.)

PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE SCHOOLS OF STOCKHOLM.

By FRED EUGENE LEONARD, Oberlin, Ohio.

THE public schools of Sweden are commonly classified as follows: the primary, or folkskolor; the secondary, or allmanna laroverk; the universities and other superior and professional schools; and the technical schools. The first group does not lead up to the second, but a child is sent to one or the other of the two according to the means or ambition of his parents and their plans for his future career.

The folkskola is designed to furnish that kind and degree of education which the state requires of every citizen irrespective of class or calling. Its course of seven years, cpvering the period of “school age” (7-14), includes religious instruction, a study of the mother tongue, arithmetic, and simple geometrical construction, geography and history, the rudiments of physical and biological science, drawing, singing and gymnastics, to which are commonly added, as optional subjects, manual training and instruction in domestic economy. Tuition in all these branches is free.

The laroverk, corresponding in general to the German Gymnasium

Digitized by u.ooQle
-26-

and the French Lyce, gives a broader training, intended to prepare for later study at the universities and the professional and higher technical schools, or to meet the conditions for admission to any but the lowest grades of government employ. In order to enter, one must be at least nine years old, and the average age of those who receive their “certificate of maturity” upon completing the full nine-years’ course is between 19 and 20. To a more extended study of the subjects taught in the folkskola are added German and French, for all students, and together with these languages either English, or Latin and English, or Latin and Greek, depending upon whether the pupil pursues the “modern course” (reallmie) or one or the other of the two sections into which the “Latin course” (latinlinie) is divided. An American college student at the end of his sophomore year has received an education roughly equivalent to that of a graduate from the Swedish laroverk. Each pupil is expected to pay a fee of ten crowns ($2.70) upon admission, and about thirty crowns a year thereafter; but provision is made for relieving indigent and worthy scholars from even this nominal charge.

PRIMARY SCHOOLS.

Of the more than 35,000 children of school age in Stockholm last fall, 25,613, or over three-fourths, were attending the thirty folkskolor. These are grouped in eight school systems, corresponding to the parishes or districts into which the city is divided, and at the head of every such system is placed a so-called First Teacher. The different grades in a single building are cut up into parallel sections, so that the average number of children under one teacher does not exceed 35. Thus the the three schoolhouses of Katarina district contained altogether in 1899 some 4,800 pupils distributed among 138 classes; Maria district, with the same number of buildings, had 4,000 in 112 classes, and Klara district, 1,400 in four buildings and 40 classes.

The great Kungsholms folkskola, intended to accomodate 3,500 to 4,000 children, and said to be the largest school building in the world, is in many ways typical of them all. Its size is unusual, to be sure, but the major part was completed only last year, so that it doubtless represents the latest ideas in school architecture. The building consists of two L-shaped portions, each four stories high with a basement, their long arms forming the opposite ends of a rectangular graveled yard and separating this from the street, and their short arms turned toward each other on one side of the yard. At the center of this third side is an archway, flanked by one-storv structures which contain offices and the janitor’s quarters. Next to these the loftier gymnastic halls complete the front by joining on to the ells. The area of the yard is not far from one and a half acres. The long wings on Flemming-Gatan and Kungsholms-Gatan measure 285 feet in length, the entire front on Mariebergs-Gatan 360 feet, and the depth of the ells between street and yard is everywhere about 40 feet. The class-rooms, 94 in number, occupy the entire street side of the building, and open into long corridors which look out upon the central yard and lead down into it. On every floor drinking fountains and stationary wash-bowls supplied with hot and cold water are distributed at frequent intervals along these passage-
-27-

ways. Besides the recitation rooms there are eight larger halls for pasteboard, wood and metal sloyd, and the sewing classes ; three rooms to be fitted up as cooking schools; two gymnasia; two bathing outfits, which include dressing-rooms, a hot-air chamber, shower baths and a pool 14x7 feet; steam disinfection apparatus, laundry and drying-rooms; dining-rooms, and counters where milk and bread are sold to the children; the living apartments of the first teacher, and a room for the use of other teachers; offices, and janitor’s quarters. The old wing is heated by steam and the newer one by hot air. The total cost, exclusive of the site, was over $200,000.

In the class-rooms of this building the single desks are arranged one behind the other, so as to leave aisles between adjacent rows. and next to the wall at the sides and rear. Space is thus afforded for simple marching exercises and for others which either require no apparatus or may be practised with the help of desks and seats. The two halls set apart for gymnastics measure about 55x25 feet, and have a height considerably greater tha^ that of the other rooms. Their side walls are lined with stallbars, and the floor space is divided crosswise into three nearly equal parts by two pairs of booms, when these are set up. But the bars and central post of each pair can be dropped below the floor, and then the entire area from wall to wall is left free. The remaining equipment includes Swedish ladders, climbing poles, ropes and rope-ladders hanging from the ceiling, long benches for use at the stallbars, and bucks for vaulting exercises. Each of the other school districts has also its special room or rooms for gymnastic instruction.

The three lower classes of the various folkskolor have marching and other exercises without apparatus daily, in the school-room, the work alternating with other instruction and directed by the same teacher. In the case of higher classes special periods, three a week as a rule, are set apart for the gymnastic lesson, and this is given sometimes in the schoolroom, utilizing the desks and seats as apparatus, but at least once a week in the gymnasium, where its duration is commonly about half an hour. Little or no change of costume is attempted, beyond the laying off of coats by the boys. The school report for 1899 relates that “since many of the children wear wooden shoes, unsuitable for the gymnastic lesson, 400 pairs of special shoes were bought and distributed among the districts for use in the gymnasia.”

As regards teachers in the folkskolor, the women out-number the men five to one. All must have completed a four-years’ course at one of the 12 Swedish normal schools for this grade of instructors, and of that course gymnastics everywhere forms a part, directed by a graduate of the Central Institute at Stockholm and occupying three hours a week throughout the entire four years. There is always a model school attached, which affords the future teacher an opportunity to test his skill and to acquire experience in this as well as other branches of instruction. In Stockholm teachers receive additional counsel and direction from a special instructor in gymnastics, who divides his time among all the folkskolor in the different districts; but the general guide followed is Liedbeck’s manual of gymnastics.* Besides the formal exer-

* Gymnastiska Dagofningar for Folkskolan. C. H. Liedbeck. 2d Ed., Stock-

Digitized by tjOOQle
-28-

cises this book contains a large number of games. These are introduced occasionally as part of the gymnastic lesson, and are also encouraged in the school-yards during recess. Of its 28 tables of exercises only six call for no apparatus of any sort, six can be given with nothing more than desks and seats, and the balance require a gymnastic hall supplied with stallbars, booms, poles, ropes, ladders, benches, mats, etc.

Instruction in military tactics and target shooting is given to the older boys in the spring and early fall, under the general direction of an army officer who is assigned to this service in all the primary schools of the city. There is drill by squads in exercises for the recruit, together with occasional company drill, a few longer marches in battalion, and training as subalterns for the most advanced.

Some other features of the Stockholm folkskolor deserve mention here, inasmuch as they bear upon the health or form a part of the physical training of the children. The school hours are from 8 until 1 o’clock, beginning a quarter or half hour later, however, in the dark winter months. A 30-minute recess follows the second session period, and there are three more of 10 minutes each, so that the actual time for study and recitation is reduced to four hours. Work continues throughout the six week-days, and for 39 weeks of the year. "When lack of room renders necessary the organization of other divisions meeting in the afternoon, the hours for these are from 2 till 6 o’clock, with one recess of 20 minutes’ duration and two others of 10 minutes each.	(To be concluded.)

A PLEA FOR THE EDUCATION OF THE BODY.

By C. E. EHINGER, M. D.

(Concluded.)

IS it possible that we can be guilty longer of abusing and disregarding the needs of such a structure? Let us have done with those false and wicked conceptions, the product of an age of darkness; let us glorify and ennoble this marvel of all marvels; make it one of the leading aims of our life to bring it to a perfection of development, which shall render it a worthy receptacle of an immortal spirit.

Shame upon that person who says he has not time to take exercise or care for the body. As well say that he has not time for prayer or religious worship.

Who can estimate the moral value of good health; and good health, be it known, is not the result of chance but must be earned by struggle, either voluntary or through the stern necessities of our existence.

Man, by nature, is a country dweller, and when living under primitive conditions, in rural or sparsely settled communities, enjoys immunity from a large number of physical deficiencies and disorders which afflict the city dweller. He cannot congregate in cities and subject himself to all the unsanitary and unhygienic conditions of such a life without inevitably suffering the consequences.

holm, 1891. 9V2x7V2 in., pp. 107. 297 figures in the text, and 4 folding plates at the end illustrating equipment.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-2<J-

I am not contending for a return to primitive conditions, and am by no means unmindful of the great progress that has been made, especially in sanitation and preventive medicine; but I do maintain that this has been more than counterbalanced by harmful, artificial habits and unnatural modes of living. In this field, as in all others, sudden and radical changes of life are always disastrous. New and more specialized occupations, changed methods of caring for and educating our children, the stress of social and business life, and the sudden acquisition of wealth have wrought grave physical disaster. In the young and the old the emotional side of life has been unduly cultivated and excited. The whole trend of modern life—in this country at least—has been toward premature and continued over-development of the nervous system, while but little time or opportunity has been afforded for adjustment to these new and trying conditions.

The feverish unrest apparent in every avenue of life betokens an intensity and diversity of effort which sadly militates against the proper functioning of the great organic processes.

It is one of the laws of life that growth and repair only take place during periods of rest; that while activity is indispensable the alternating periods of repose are quite as imperative. With life always at fever heat and faculties keyed up to their highest pitch, true repose becomes finally impossible. It is not only our business, professional and domestic affairs that are carried on at this high-pressure rate, but it charaterizes every pursuit of life and, sad to relate, is as much in evidence in our sports, so-called recreations, educational methods, and religious observances as elsewhere.

It would seem as though, with the advent of steam and electricity, we became possessed with the idea that speed was the great requisite of life; that the spirit of the times demanded not only that people, but ideas and measures, must also have “rapid transit.” Everything, from a congressional bill to a missionary scheme, must be “railroaded through.” There is no longer time for repose, contemplation, poise, leisure; the very terms are becoming outgrown and obsolete. In vain are the feeble protests that are uttered now and again; they are inaudible above the tumult and rush. Before the words have died from our lips we are again caught in the swiftly-moving stream and hastened onward with the speed of the “limited.” No, I am not pleading for a return to the stage-coach. I merely desire to remind you that while speed is often necessary and rapid transit a great boon, even in this rushing age, the law still holds that activity must be followed by repose. Action creates friction, friction causes waste, waste demands repair, and repair can only take place during rest. I would further call to mind the fact that waste is directly proportional to speed; that it is, indeed, in a very literal sense “the pace that kills.”

Physical weakness and disease are so common that I fear we have come somewhat to look upon such conditions as our natural heritage, necessary conditions attendant upon life processes. The truth is the very reverse, health is our normal heritage, weakness and disease are incidental, wholly unnecessary, and entirely preventable. No doubt, so stated, this sounds optimistic to the point of absurdity. But if this is
-30-

1 not true, I maintain that we have no right to speak of an “all-wise creator.” To my mind, it is impossible to conceive of an all-wise and all-loving creator establishing a condition of physical inharmony. No, my friends, weakness and disease are not a penalty nor an infliction visited upon us because of our spiritual transgressions; not the result: of “divine wrath.” They come because the conditions necessary for their production have been complied with; they come because of, and in response to, law; not as punishments, but as kindly suggestions, promptings, admonitions, warnings. How blind we are not to see that: it is impossible for us to* feel pleasure without at the same time being capable of experiencing pain. No, health is impossible without its negative counterpart—disease. It is not necessary that We suffer disease, but it is absolutely essential that we be capable of becoming subject to it.

All the aches and pains and the manifold diseases, which come to thoughtless humanity, are but the warning notes, the necessary protests of nature, which we unthinkingly disregard and foolishly attempt to still by resort to paralyzing drugs.

I desire especially to enforce the thought that, in reality, disease is our friend, and this not simply in the old, narrow, theological sense of a permitted affliction for spiritual discipline, though doubtless this may sometimes result. We are justified in studying disease, not because it is a positive, natural process but because it is a morbid state or deviation from the normal, and we should be able to recognize it in order that we may avoid it, be familiar with its features, that it may not come upon us unawares.

I regret to say that it has been too much the tendency of the medical profession no less than the laity, to look upon the unusual, the abnormal, rather than the normal. Just as the church has fixed its eyes and centered its discussions around evil, so the medical profession has found pathology a more alluring field than physiology and hygiene. In other words, too much time has been spent in studying the phenomena of disease, and not enough in becoming familiar with the more attractive and positive conditions of health.

It would not be difficult to substantiate these assertions, did time permit, by abundant testimony taken from the ranks of the medical profession. Allow me but one or two illustrations. Dr. Herman Biggs, in a paper presented before the New York State Medical Society in 1899, in speaking of the teaching of hygiene in the medical colleges in this country, said:	“In most of them the subject is not taught at all,

except incidentally, in connection with bacteriology and medicine. The natural result is that the medical profession, as a class, is very deficient in a proper knowledge of the subject or of an appreciation of its importance.”

The writer has for years, both in private and in public, been making the same assertions with reference to its teaching in school and college and is on record as protesting against this almost criminal disregard, or, what is wTorse, the pretense at teaching hygiene by a few superficial paragraphs, or, at most, a chapter in the generally faulty text-books of physiology. The best that we can say of most of the teaching on

Digitized by c^ooQle
—31—

temperance and hygiene is that it has been superficial and faulty to such a degree as to cause actual revulsion in the mind of the intelligent student and prove a detriment to the cause.

Dr. H. Lahman, a German medical writer, in commenting on the sad condition of the health of his people, recently said: “But we cannot expect to see any great improvement in this respect until the subjects of health and hygiene, the very foundation of life and wisdom, are taught to the rising generation in our schools. Only thus can we render possible a real prevention of disease and a perfect development of the body and its functions.” He thinks that as bodily misery and disease grow less, physicians, though finding less employment as such, will become teachers of hygiene and protectors of health. He says: “To-day the ordinary work of a doctor is ‘mending work/ His patients merely use him to help them to sin again against nature.”

Now let me cite the views of Eustace H. Miles, M. A., an English university teacher, who, though not a physician, is a student of this subject, and a noted athlete, being champion of England in two of their most popular sports. He speaks as follows:	“Another	crying	evil	is

the almost universal ignorance of all classes on the subject of health. That there is a desire for health on the part of most people can hardly be denied, but education at present does practically nothing in the sphere of health. In my own case, I may say that I never received a word of instruction on health throughout my whole education, which means about six or seven years of private school life, about five years of public school life, and about four years of university life. This is an evil of the day scarcely inferior to any, and it will do much to account for the physical degeneracy of which many so constantly complain.”

Now, I need not tell you that the case of this graduate of the famous old Cambridge University is not at all a unique one; the same remarks concerning the teaching of health would apply with equal truth to almost every American school and university, and this is a condition of affairs which should bring the blush of shame to the face of every intelligent person. A matter of such vital moment must not be left to chance or occasional hap-hazard instruction by ill-prepared teachers. It must become the leading subject in early education, and an important and always recognized one throughout the educational life. Every home, school, college, and university should become a center of illumination for diffusing light on the all important facts of physical training and health culture. A genuine ambition for health must be awakened which shall equal that now existing for wealth, social position, or fame.

Probably no single fact indicates the physical status of a people so unerringly as does the number of insane among its inhabitants, and the question whether a people is improving or degenerating physically can be answered by showing whether the number of insane is increasing or diminishing. Insanity is always an unmistakable evidence of physical deterioration. This is not the place to go into statistics relating to such a matter, but, as indicating the general trend of medical opinion, allow me to quote one or two paragraphs from an editorial in a late number of a reliable medical journal: “That insanitv is increasing at a very rapid rate is no longer a matter of opinion, but has been proved
-32-

by government statistics carefully collated, both in this country and in Europe. The increase is clearly shown by recent statistics to have been fully three hundred per cent, in the last fifty years. The number of insane has become so great in most of the older States that appropriations for their care are one of the greatest items of expense which annually come before the state legislative bodies.

“The causes of this widespread mental deterioration are numerous, including, perhaps, a large share of the artificial conditions which are created by our modern civilization, and especially those which tend directly to breaking down general systematic and constitutional vigor. The effects of the use of alcohol and tobacco are unmistakable . . .

“Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. The last hundred years have been sowing industriously the seeds of lunacy, idiocy, and epilepsy, and the dire harvest which the present generation is reaping is only a foretaste of what the succeeding generation must certainly" reap as a result of the reckless seedsowing of the men and women now upon the stage of action.”

In pleading for the education of the body, I am merely asking that it be included in the educational scheme. In the past we have appeared to proceed upon the assumption that man was but a brain, a bodiless something for the acquisition of facts, a sort of memorizing machine, which was so unfortunate as to sometimes require the services of a gross and corrupt medium—the body.

But some one says, there is, after all, something higher than the body and its needs; may we not be making it a fetich? True enough, and far be it from me to deny the possibility, but so far as this remark applies to the rational needs of the body, I think we have no reason to fear that such a condition will be brought about by its intelligent study and care.

No, my friends, the person who, through intelligent study, painstaking and persistent effort, attains to a knowledge of the bodily structures and functions and strengthens it through physical conquest, acquires a true reverence for its beauties and uses that make it impossible for him to be a sensualist or a materialist. Self-mastery begins with overcoming and controlling the lower appetites and propensities, thus paving the way for, and leading to, the same mastery in higher spheres.

In this way we may say, with David Starr Jordan: “The perfect man will be master of the world because the perfect master of himself.”

He has learned the lesson which that greatest of co-operating communities—the human body—can teach:	That we serve ourselves best when

we serve others, and we serve others to the greatest degree by keeping our own body up to its highest working level.

Although my paper already exceeds the prescribed limits, I would be recreant to my duty did I fail to point out that this ideal training of the body, the new gospel of health, must include the fundamental principles which lie at the root of the problems of sex-life, ignorance of which produces untold misery and unhappiness.

Only the great mind of a Tennyson could have conceived these thoughts and clothed them in such fitting expressions:	“We	reverence

God’s holiest sanctuary when we reverence ourselves. Self-reverence, self-knowledge, self control—these three alone lead to sovran power.”

Digitized by CjOOQte
Perhaps no more fitting thought could be chosen to close my plea for the body than Montaigne’s: “It is not a mind, it is not a body, that we have to educate, but a man, of whom we are not to make two beings.”

FREAK PICTURES.

By W. H. KINNICUTT, M. D.

We hear a great deal just at present about physical culture. A poster, gotten up by a certain magazine devoted to things physical, hangs in one of our offices; this has provoked the question of us scores

of times “How do you like-----?”—giving the name of the publication—

and elicited the fact that it is widely read by young men.

This interest is a natural one, and the magazine publisher knows how to fix up the stuff to stimulate the buyer’s appetite. It runs to the sensational and to extremes. It is probably not particularly harmful in its influence, but it creates and developes a distorted and erroneous idea of physical training.

In the popular mind the term physical development always means muscular development: nothing was ever more of a misapprehension; that is only one phase of its meaning. It includes the strength of the heart, the capacity of the lungs, the integrity of the digestive organs and functions, and the balance of the entire physical system, one part with another.

The man who is big-muscled but has not nutritive capacity of compensate, who is pale, bloodless, and slow actioned, is poorly developed.

It seems to be an easier task to start young men toward a specific impossibility than toward a common sense objective that is to be easily attained.

How many “systems of physical culture” are there to-day, which claim pre-eminence as health producers, which are nothing more than muscle makers; how many appliances of wire, wood, or rubber, each possessing miraculous power to produce herculean physiques; wooden tubes, to blow through or to suck, which will insure lungs like balloons; and all with an immense sale.

Getting health is no miracle; keeping it has no element of luck; just common sense living, with enough wholesome food to properly nourish the body, enough work to feel honest, enough recreation to keep the body happy, enough exercise to renovate the system, enough sleep to allow thorough repair, malces a formula which is within every one’s reach.

The exercise, properly used, will cover a multitude of short-comings in the other specified items; it is a great remedy.

Of course this regime does not insure a vaudeville physique, but most people in the city can’t afford such a luxury; it costs too much to maintain and is liable to grow stale on your hands.

Don’t loose your head over the pictures of some one else’s shape.— Cleveland’s Young Men.

Digitized by UjOOQle
—.‘14—

IS EXERCISE UNHEALTHY?

FalstafPs opinion, that it is better to rust than to be scoured to nothing with perpetual motion, is echoed to a certain extent by a physician who holds that exercise is unhealthy for men past 35 years of age. He has received a number of endorsements from individuals who, while not Falstaffian in all respects, endorse that hero’s philosophy to this extent. Among them are cited Russell Sage, the financier, William M. Evarts, and others who have never exerted themselves physically when they could help it and believe themselves the better for this course. The American people, according to these authorities, are ruining their constitutions by too much activity, and we are told that we should adopt a more restful way of living, at least as regards physical exercise. It would be interesting to exercise one’s fancy as to a state of society in which physical inactivity was the rule after .35; it would be a quer world, at least in this latitude. The notion is one of those one-sided ideas that sometimes find expression and are taken up and made the most of by the lay press. This one is comparatively harmless, since there are not many who will believe it, and fewer still who will be able to follow the teaching, as man is constituted and in present social conditions.

A NEW COMBINATION APPARATUS.

“OUDER’S Combination Gymnastic Apparatus,” is an ideal apparatus O designed for the use of pupils in the lower grades. Its principal advantage is, that it is light, strong, and portable, and can be set up in anv ordinary class room, corridor, or out-door playground. The fittings are so practical that the different apparatuses can be easily changed by one person or by the little ones themselves. It has almost all of the interesting features of a regular gymnasium outfit.

The main construction consists of two standards with pipe uprights fastened and braced to a wooden base. Two pipe frames telescope into the uprights which are connected by a steel horizontal bar and together with the board connection at the bottom make it a strong and firm structure, which admits all the other attachments and combinations. The horizontal bars, see-saws, parallel bars, and spring boards are adjustable in height and strong enough to be used by pupils upward to the eighth grade. It occupies a floor space of 4' 6" by 10' 6" and the ladders are 9 ft. high.

Recently Mr. Suder illustrated the practicability of the apparatus, with a class of third grade pupils before superintendents, principals, and members of the school board of Chicago. It was pronounced a complete success and efforts are already being made to have it installed in several schools of the city.

Patent papers have been applied for and in the near future it will be ready for the market.

Digitized by LjOOQle
svVEfVs CQ/iPl^Tisfi GY/^/sriC/PPWTVs

CONTAINS THE FOLLOWING PARTS .*

PARALLEL BAAS-Horizontal BAP.

£ LAO0BPS POP HOAX- I/PPT. ft OBL. POSITIONS. HOP BP WITH BPOMMPLB-PHNC-8 WITH BWINO/NO SPAT ATTACHMBN T. zbppiho boaAob.

2 PL AT TO PM 8 POP OPPP 'Ti/AfPtNQ.,

2 BBS BA W LAOOBPB •

M/CeeilAHPOHB APPLIAHCPS: 2 BROAD BACK 3TPAP9 POP CHPST BAPS.

HANOLBO ON SPP/PO BOARDS POP A BOOM INAL XOP4NAL FXBPCtSBB.

A-MAPS.

fla t? J.

Digitized by GoO^lc
X If	Published	Monthly.

Nm ftND B0DY' * FRE1DENKER PUBLISHING CO., Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.	2^/TI l-wa,-uJc—T •Wlatcoaajalaa..

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

WARNING: A man by the name of Thomas, claiming to hail from Canada and to be commissioned by Canadian authorities and Eastern prominent physical training specialists to investigate the condition of physical training in the Western States and to report thereon, has been taking advantage of the hospitality of the Turners. Mr. Thomas, who seems to be imbued with a decided predilection for the ladies’ and girls’ classes, has been given to understand that the members of these classes claim to have ample grounds for strenuously objecting to his presence. He has been denied further admission to various gymnasia.

We regard Mr. Thomas with suspicion and refrain publishing further particulars, with the expectation that this will be a sufficient hint for him to cut short his mission, and simultaneously a warning to gymnastic instructors to be on the look-out for him. Our personal interview witfi him convinced us that Mr. Thomas’ mission, his knowledge of physical training and his connections with prominent people are exuberances of an exceptionally vivid imagination.

We are ready to go more into details if he shall persist in further molesting our instructors or pupils.

(From British Medical Journal.)

EFFECTS OF MUSCULAR EXERTION, SUDDEN AND PROLONGED, IN YOUNG ADOLESCENTS.

In attempting to ascertain the effects of severe muscular exertion, we have, Collier remarks, to study first the physiologic changes set up by moderate exertion. The effects of exercise on the two most important organs, the heart and lungs, are first noticed. The first effect of exercise is to increase the force of the heart’s beat and cause an active congestion, which swells the pulmonary capillaries and diminishes the air space. As the muscular effort continues, it increases the amount of CO2 that is thrown into the blood, stimulating the respiratory center of the brain; inspiration becomes deeper and more frequent and more air is thrown into the air cells, impeding the circulation in the pulmonary capillaries, and the heart beats more and more quickly, but each ventricular systole is less vigorous, and we have passive congestion of the lungs, which is a marked obstacle to the elimination of CO2. This can not be done beyond a certain point, as too much CO2 in the blood brings about the cessation of all effort. We have here, therefore, physiologic emphysema. In athletes who have been through years of athletic

Digitized by v^ooQle
-37-

competitions, we often find the following signs of physiologic emphysema: 1. Absence of apex-beat either on inspection or palpation, while at rest. 2. Absence of all superficial cardiac dulness on account of the large emphysematous lung covering the heart and separating it from the thoracic wall. 3. A hyper-resonant note above the clavicles and above the sternum. If the cause of this is repeated too often, or kept up too long, it is quite possible that it may become converted into a pathologic condition, leading in later life to the same consequences as we have from old-standing bronchitis and chronic asthma. Another effect is to throw a great strain on the right side of the heart, since passive pulmonary congestion implies overdistention of the right ventricle. The author calls attention to a form of heart strain not uncommon among girls and young women, who do much running up and down stairs. It is generally associated with a certain amount of anemia, and probably due to atonic conditions of the heart muscle induced by impoverished blood. The most prominent symptom is breathlessness on exertion and great frequency and tumultuous action of the heart. Girls about the ages of rapid growth with marked functional changes may have minor forms of dilatation of the right side of the heart, especially liable to occur with overexertion. The effect of severe muscular exertion on the left side of the heart is to produce a physiologic hypertrophy, and if this is overdone there is danger in it. Insomnia is not an uncommon troublesome symptom with this form of physiologic hypertrophy. Collier advises that boys in schools should be examined before being allowed to take part in athletic exercises, and especially in the adolescent periods and when they are growing rapidly. Cases of severe and sudden breakdown in well-fed boys and college students are rare. The danger lies in the future, some twenty years or more after. He notes the prophylaxis, advising physical examinations of school boys and students, but says that the danger is less in this class than with the lower middle classes outside of public schools. In concluding his paper he remarks on the physical standard of the army being too high. Many men are rejected on account of insufficient weight or chest measurement. A long, narrow chest may have equal lung capacity with the broad one, but the tape only measures the horizontal diameter; it takes no cognizance of the vertical. Intermittent albuminuria is mentioned, and Collier explains it on the ground of some defect in the walls of the blood-vessels of the kidney. The condition often gives rise to no special trouble, and the treatment for it seems to do very little good.

The workman for his work a goodly tool doth need,

The fighter goodly weapons for the fray,

Thou, fighter of the Lord, and workmen, spirit, heed That thou treat not thy body in too light a way.

It is thy working tool, it is thy battle-gear;

Keep thou it well, in work and fight to persevere.

—Rueckert.

—Many a ‘city-man’ can have but little knowledge of living, however much he may know of life.

gitized by v^.ooQLe
-38-

SPORTS IN THE STADIUM AT THE PAN-AMERICAN

EXPOSITION.

The marked popularity of athletic sports has been handsomely recognized. A Stadium, beautiful in design, with a quarter-mile track and ground area ample for the requirements of all the popular events proposed, is provided. It has a seating capacity of 12,000. The nature of the sports planned is varied. Amateur events of all kinds will be particularly encouraged as representing the most desirable of athletic competitions. There will be professional events as well. College sports will be made a feature and intercollegiate events are being planned. There will be amateur and professional baseball, football, lawn-tennis, Marathon race, cross-country runs, lacrosse, cycling, basket ball, roque, Caledonian games, gymnastics, military manoeuvers, turning, cricket, bowling, and other sports. Tennis is widely popular and it is proposed to arrange a tournament in which the leading players of America and foreign representatives may participate. The Marathon race will have its start and finish in the Stadium. At the Olympian Games four years

ago, and again in 1900, the Marathon race was the most attractive feature. Cross-country runs will have their finish in the Stadium. A national event of this character is being planned, for both juniors and seniors, together with an intercollegiate championship. It is proposed to set aside two days for world's championships, including scratch and handicap events, and invite entries from all over the world. Lacrosse is extremely popular in Canada, and is winning favor in the United States. It calls for extraordinary fleetness of foot, keenness of sight, skill, and endurance. This game will be played between the best of the United States and Canada at the Exposition. A series of games of Gaelic football, which is now being played by many teams in the United States, will be played, one to select the Canadian champion and the other the American champion, when the final games will be played. Arrangements are being made for a grand carnival of cycle racing in which the fastest amateurs and professionals of the world will compete. Caledonian games will be an important feature, and as all the young

Digitized by v^ooQLe
-89-

sons of Scotland are adepts in athletics, there will be great interest manifested by them in the Scottish events. Turning is ever popular with the Germans and the program will include interesting exercises by representative turners. The national game of baseball will receive especial attention.

EXTRACTS FROM EUROPEAN JOURNALS ON PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

By CARL L. SCHRADER.

A RECENT issue of the “Deutsche Turnzeitung fur Frauen’’ contains an article, headed: “Physical Training for the Youth,” abstracts of which will be of interest to our readers. Besides showing the physical and ethical value of early training, a special plea is made for the bodily education of woman.

Of the developmental periods of man—childhood, adolescence, middle age, and old age—none is of greater importance for the entire race than that of adolescence, the period of rapid growth, mental as well as physical. During this period the foundation of the whole mental development is laid, and its future depends upon the soundness of this foundation. It consists not so much of a great ballast of knowledge to be stored up, but above all, of the susceptibility to be created, nursed, and increased of all that is good, beautiful, and true.

For the physical development this period of adolescence is of a still greater importance. The weight increases, the bony structure gains in size and strength, all organs grow in functional capacity and resistibility, the chest cavity enlarges, and heart and lungs require more room for their normal development. These facts emphasize the necessity of paying more careful attention to the physical part of the body during this time. Nothing can be more effective than a well regulated system of physical training. The effect may be summed up as follows: 1. The training influences the function of the heart; 2. It enhances nutrition; 3. It augments metabolism; 4. It increases circulation; 5. It strengthens all organs, especially heart and lungs; 6. It regulates the body heat, improves the function of the skin, and strengthens and protects the entire system against the evil influences of the climate.

One-sided sport can not satisfy this demand of a normal development. There is nothing that can take the place of gvmnastics. It is, therefore, essential that everybody should engage in regular systematic exercises, not merely because of its good physical results, but also for the good influence it exercises upon the mind, and besides, last but not least, upon the moral and social propensities.

If this is true in reference to the males, why should it be less true when applied to females? Timid obsequiousness can have no standing here where the welfare of life and soul is in question. Only by means of a judicious care of the body can all physical and moral energies be unfolded. In woman as well as man quick perception, memory, reason, strong willpower and selfcontrol are commendable, whereas, weakness, torpidity, laxity, awkwardness are as undesireable and detestable in one as in the other.

Digitized by tjOOQle
-40-

Wherever girls have engaged in gymnastics and gymnastic games, the good results have been remarkable and have attracted the attention of the population around them. We may hope for a general acceptance of this happy innovation and justly foresee a time when woman will free herself of such misery as she suffers now from anemia, nervousness, and other present prevailing ailments. One generation of course can not accomplish all this, but it is the duty of every one to fulfill his or her part toward this beautiful end. It is the vital capacity of woman which determines the future of peoples. “A people will be as its women are.”

International Congress for Bodily Education. This congress met during the Paris Exposition from September 30th till October 6th. Another battle was fought here against the use of apparatus, such as the parallel bars, horizontal bar, and rings. But again the outcome was as before, the apparatuses have come to stay. The exponents of this anti-apparatus movement, Mosso and followers, came prepared to oust modern gymnastics, which under the German flag has begun its march of triumph throughout the world. The President of France, the King of Belgium, and other royalties gave this congress their support. The members presiding at different times were Dr. Mosso of Italy, Fosseprez of Belgium, Torngreen of Sweden, Cazalet of France. The following other countries were represented: Germany, Greece, Denmark, Hungary, Switzerland, Mexico, the United States, and Japan. Much was said pro and con on the question of apparatus. The Swedes, Torn-green and Kumlin of Stockholm, declared : “We are reputed as opposing the use of apparatus but we came here to defend it, for we are convinced that by means of movements without apparatus no sufficient strengthdevelopment can be obtained. It is, however, necessary to select the apparatus and the movements thereon.” Mathey of Switzerland and Cuperus of Belgium very successfully defended the apparatus against the. attacks of Sluys and Mosso. After this question was decided by a crushing defeat of the Mosso side, there was little interest shown in the remainder of the business transactions.

Hygienic Research. Two wellknown scientists have been making special experiments to decide two much discussed hygienic topics. Prof. Leyden examined the air in a tightly closed bedroom and found that the quantity of carbonic acid contained in the air had increased threefold after a person had passed a night in the room. “This proves sufficiently,” says Prof. Leyden, “how serious it is to sleep in a poorly ventilated room.” It is a very important matter to give the ventilation of bedrooms more consideration.

Prof. Esmarch of Kiel experimented upon the effect that the sun had upon clothing and bedding. He claims that all the usual disease germs, found in bedding and clothing, are best destroyed by the rays of the sun. “It is wrong,” says Esmarch, “to darken the room by heavy curtains. A sleeping room ought to be open to the sun.”

Digitized by CjOOQte
-41-

Call to the Gymnasium. A very timely appeal to the citizens of a large city has recently been made by the gymnastic societies of Hamburg, which undoubtedly will bear good fruit. This appeal, which was distributed in print in great quantity, very earnestly calls attention of the necessity of physical improvement in the laity. Some sentences may find appreciation among the readers of Mind and Body.

One of the greatest problems of to-day, which concerns the wellbeing of the people, is to find means to counteract the evil influence which city life and the overexertion of the occupations have stamped upon man. To elevate all classes of our people physically, mentally, and morally is the high aim of the “Deutsche Turnerschaft” whose recent epoch-making gymnastic festival is still fresh in every one’s memory. Notwithstanding this, the value of physical training, its beneficial influence upon physical and mental health, its high importance in the moral education, particularly of our youth, and in the buoyancv and joyfulness which physical activity brings about, is not sufficiently appreciated. We, therefore, propose to address this appeal to all circles of our population, irrespective of age, sex, or social standing, to avail themselves of the many opportunities offered in this direction. Especially do we request parents and educators, the doctors and preachers, the principals and managers of large establishments, and the many societies of Hamburg to cooperate with us in making physical training a public commodity.—This appeal was signed by some of the most eminent men of the city.

Gymnasia in Breslau. This city has now twenty large gymnasia used by the schools of that city. For the higher schools 48 instructors are engaged to teach physical training while in the common schools 132 gentlemen and 31 ladies have charge of this branch.

GYMNASTIC EXHIBITION OF CHICAGO TURNERS.

A GYMNASTIC festival of extensive proportions will be given in the Auditorium on May 23rd by the various turner societies of the Chicago district. At a meeting held recently the details of the program were gone over, and it was proposed that the affair should be the largest of the kind ever attempted. All the members of the Chicago district were present at the meeting, which was held in the Metropolitan Block. A program was outlined and committees on detail arrangements appointed.

The primary object of the entertainment will be to show what the various turner societies are doing in the way of physical culture. The endeavor will be to illustrate the evolution in physical culture from the games of the ancient Greeks down to the present day. The entries will include the juniors as well as the seniors, and the work being done by women in physical culture will also be illustrated.

Joseph Grundhoefer, instructor of the Turner Society of Kensington, has been selected as leader, and he will be assisted by the instructors of the other thirty-five turner societies in this district.

Digitized by L^ooQle
—42—

The program, as agreed upon, is as follows:

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8. 9.

10

11.

12.

13.

Entrance of all participants in the carnival.

Tableaux illustrating the evolution of physical training from the time of the ancient Greeks up to the present.

Calisthenics with rings (girls’ classes).

Climbing on poles (boys’ classes).

Hoop exercises (girls’ classes).

Calisthenics (boys’ classes).

Class exercise on parallel bars (junior classes).

Indian club exercise (ladies’ class).

Wand exercise (seniors).

Long wand exercise (men’s class).

Heavy gymnastics on horizontal and parallel bars and vaulting horse (seniors).

Field sports—pole vaulting, high jumping, fencing with foil and broad sword.

Pyramids by all the participants.

The arrangements will be in the hands of the district council of the Chicago turners.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—Mr. Frank H. Hall, Supt. of the Illinois Institution for the Education of the. Blind, writes us as follows:	“I	write	to	inform you

that Mr. W. A. Crippen died recently of typhoid fever. It is a great loss to this institution to be deprived of a man who did such splendid work in the gymnasium.” Mr. Crippen was a graduate of the Summer School of the North American Turnerbund. He was deeply interested in his work as was evidenced by his frequent contributions to “Mind and Body.”

—Mr. W. E. Day, physical director of the Dayton, 0., Y. M. C. A., whishes to buy the April and June numbers of 1899 of the “English Gymnasium.”

—Mr. Jacob Rettich, a graduate of our Milwaukee Normal School, sends us an invitation to the commencement exercises of the Cincinnati College of Medicine and Surgery. His name appears in the list of this year’s graduates. Our congratulation to the M. D.

—There will certainly be no more delightful method of recording the incidents and pleasures of a bicycle tour to Buffalo and to the Niagara Frontier with its many historic points and grand natural scenery, than by use of the camera. Under certain restrictions, a pictorial record can be made of the many attractions of the great Exposition. The regulations restricting the use of cameras on the grounds of the Pan-American Exposition, under the concession granted to C. D. Arnold, provide that no cameras exceeding four by five inches shall be allowed within the gates. Stereoscopic cameras and tripods will not be admitted under any circumstances. The fee for the admission of cameras four by five inches or under will be 50 cents for a da}T or one dollar and fifty cents for a week.

Digitized by Tooele
WORLDS CHAMPIONSHIPS AT THE PAN-AMERICAN

EXPOSITION.

The attention of all who are interested in Athletic Sports will be turned to Buffalo, September 6th and 7th, at which time will be run off, on the magnificent Stadium Athletic Field, the following championships, which are open to the Amateur Athletes of the World:

1— 60 Yards Run, scratch.	11—Running Long Jump.

2— 110 Yards Run, scratch.	12—Pole Vault.

3— 440 Yards Run, scratch.	13—Triple Jump.

4— 880 Yards Run, scratch.	14—Standing High Jump.

5—	Two Miles Steeple Chase, scratch. 15—Standing Broad Jump.

6— One Mile Run, scratch.	16—Throwing 16-lb. Hammer.

7— 120 Yards Hurdle Race, scratch.	17—Throwing 16-lb. Discus.

8— 220 Yards Hurdle Race, scratch.	18—Putting 16-lb. Shot.

9— 440 Yards Hurdle Race, scratch.	19—Throwing 56-lb. Weight.

10—Running High Jump.	20—Potato Race.

Gold, silver, and bronze medals will be awarded to the first, second and third men respectively in each event.

Entrance fee fifty cents for each event. Entries close one month prior to date of contest with Jas. E. Sullivan, Manager of Sports, Pan-American Exposition, 16 Park Place, New York City.

A. A. U. Rules to govern all contests.

Open to all registered athletes.

NATIONAL INTERSCHOLASTIC ATHLETIC MEETING AT THE PAN-AMERICAN EXPOSITION.

Entry blanks are now ready for the National Interscholastic Athletic Meeting to be held in the Stadium Athletic Field, Friday and Saturday, July 12 and 13. Interscholastic rules will govern all the contests, which are open to all schoolboy athletes in the United States.

Gold, silver and bronze medals will be awarded to the first, second and third respectively in each of the following events:

100 3rards run; 220 yards run; 440 yards run; 880 yards run; one mile run; five mile run.

Running broad jump; Running high jump.

Pole vault for height.

Putting the 12-lb. shot.

Throwing the 12-lb. hammer; throwing the discus.

120 yards hurdle race, (10 flights, 3 ft. 6 in. high).

One mile team relay race, teams of four men each, each man to run a quarter mile.

220 yards hurdle race, (10 flights, 2 ft. 6 in. high).

No entry will be received unless made upon the official entry blank which may be obtained upon application to Stephen D. Clark, Secretary, Bureau of Sports, Pan-American Exposition, 433 Ellicott Square, Buffalo, N. Y.

Each competitor must certify that he is an amateur according to the laws of the A. A. U. of the United States. Great care should be

Digitized by LaOOQle
-44-

used in making out entry blanks, as an error will be considered as an intention to mislead the handicapper, and such entry will be rejected.

Entries close with the Bureau of Sports, May 9, 1901. An entrance fee of 50c must accompany each entry.

A certificate signed by the principal of the school, or by some one in authority, to the effect that the person signing the blank is a student at the school mentioned and is eligible to represent the school in the event or events named, must be attached to each entry blank.

FOR PURER COLLEGE SPORT.

NEW RULES DRAFTED BY THE I. A. A., AT ITS ANNUAL MEETING.

Athletic legislation of much interest to college men was enacted at the annual meeting of the Intercollegiate Athletic Association. Several amendments to the by-laws, having as their chief aim the imposition of heavy penalties for sharp practices among athletes, were adopted. One amendment provides that no one shall represent any college or university at the annual field meeting who has been dropped from his class to a lower class, or expelled from his college or university, or who, not being in good standing in one department, has transferred to another, or who has not passed an entrance examination equivalent to an examination required for admission to a scientific course.

In the future, if a student represents a college in any intercollegiate track meeting in which more than two colleges participate, and wins a first or second prize in such meeting, he shall not be eligible to represent any other college he may thereafter attend in the annual field meeting until he shall have attended such college for one full calendar year and passed an annual examination on one full year’s work.

No student shall represent any college or university as a competitor at the annual field meeting who shall hereafter win a first, second, or third place in any open field or track event until he shall have resided one calendar year at the college or university he represents, and shall have passed an annual examination on a full year’s work.

Hereafter intercollegiate athletes will be compelled to pay the usual rates for board when eating at the training table. The association voted its support to the intercollegiate meet to be held in connection with the Pan-American Exposition, May 31.

These colleges were reinstated to good standing in the organization: Johns Hopkins University, Swarthmore College, University of California, University of Michigan, Amherst College, and Stevens Institute.

In view of the healthy condition of the treasury the association decided that colleges having entered three or more men in last year’s games should not pay their dues for this year. The newly elected officers are:

President: E. A. Micheling, University of Pennsylvania; secretary: J. W. Gould, New York Universitytreasurer, A. B. Bradley, Columbia University; honorary vice-presidents: E. S. Goldthwaite, Williams College, and A. A. Webber, Jr., Syracuse University; executive committee: J. W. Jamison of Princeton, T. Gierasch of Harvard, P. H. Blair of Cornell, and S. L. Coy of Yale.

The colleges represented were: Harvard (by J. H. Hallowell), Yale, Princeton, College of the City of New York, Columbia, Cornell, Fordham, Haverford, Holy Cross, New York University, University of Pennsylvania, Syracuse University, and Williams.

—A good digestion and an active liver are more useful in the battle of life than a knowledge of advanced mathematics, and sturdy limbs and strong hands are of more value to the mother of children than even decimal fractions and a familiarity with irregular verbs.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-45-

SUMMER SCHOOLS.

Summer Session of the Secretarial Institute and Training School for Physical Directors of the Young Men’s Christian Association, Lake Geneva, Wisconsin, 1901. Begins July 23rd and ends August 22.

Longwood Summer School, Longwood, Chicago, 1901. The physical culture department begins its sessions August 5th and ends them August 23.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

—The Country of Sheridan’s Ride. The unique project of photographing the entire route of Sheridan’s ride, from Winchester, Virginia, to Cedar Creek, as it is to-day, has been carried out by the Ladies’ Home Journal, and the result will be shown in a picture story of fourteen photographs. Sheridan and his aides on horse-back, from historical pictures, have been introduced into each picture, so that the ride of 1864 is shown as if it were taken to-day through that country, which, in reality, has changed but little.

—Johnson’s Physical Culture Primary Book. B. F. Johnson Publ. Co., Richmond, Va., 1901.—Mr. Johnson’s book (129 pages) differs from most other works, published on the subject, in the arrangement of the lessons according to anatomical points of view. He first takes up the fingers, for which he prescribes special exercises, then the wrist etc. etc. We cannot approve of such an arrangement as it is at variance with pedagogical and physiological laws. The remainder of the book is a mixtum compositum of anatomy, physiology, and hygiene. We miss a proper system and a lucid method in the treatment of gymnastics ,in this publication. The illustrations are good and appropriate, excepting a few of them, which are foreign to the subject.

-Self-Examination. P. Blakiston’s Son & Co., Publ., Philadelphia. Price 10 Cents.—This booklet contains 3,500 questions with answers, also questions of the Medical Examining Boards of Pennsylvania, New York, and Illinois. It is a useful little book for the ph\’sician who wishes to prepare himself for an examination or who wishes to “brush up” on general principles.

The first number of the new quarterly Revue Olympique, which purports to be the organ of the International Games, has just appeared in Paris. It contains the following article under the heading: “Chicago’s Preparation for 1904”:

“It now seems very probable that the next Olympian Games will take place in the United States. At a meeting which will shortly be held the members of the International Olympian Committee will decide to favor the New World. Rivalry is thought likely to arise between New York and Chicago, but the latter city seems already to have taken the lead. Important facts have been lately cabled from there which show that President Harper of the University ot Chicago is at the head of the movement. His scheme is said to be supported by many prominent citizens, and the creation ot a powerful committee is in contemplation.

One of the most attractive features of the Chicago plan consists in the erection of a Greek Stadium of unparalleled size. This plan was the subject of much talk and attention at the recent university club dinner in Paris, on which occasion M. Jules Cambon, French Ambassador to Washington, M. Henri Meron, French Consul at Chicago, and Baron Pierre de Coubertin, President of the International Olympian Committee, alluded to it in their speeches.

BOOK REVIEW

CHICAGO IN THE LEAD.
-46-

HOCKEY GROWING IN FAVOR.

Hockey, the great Canadian winter sport, is rapidly assuming a like position throughout the United States. This is a game which is but a very few years old this side of the border, but every day adds numbers to its adherents. New York is already a center for the game, while Philadelphia and Pittsburg have many flourishing clubs. St. Louis has a large artificial palace, and another strong-league of clubs can be found there.

Next season, Providence, Chicago, Springfield, Cleveland, and Scranton are to have ice palaces, while many other cities are laying plans for the same end.

The real reason hockey is becoming so popular here is because the teams are more closely matched. Formerly the American teams had no chance against any of the crack Canadian sevens. This is so no longer. Of course, it is undoubtedly true that the American teams have some Canadian cracks on them, but there is a good leaven of American players, and the latter are getting more numerous every year. The large number of interscholastic teams are developing some good hockeyists, who will be stars in the very near future.

PAN-AMERICAN EXPOSITION ATHLETIC GAMES.

May 17, Cornell University—Michigan Base Ball Game.

“	18,	Erie County Games (8 events).

“	24	& 25, New York State Interscholastic Track Meet.

“	31	& June 1, Pan-American Intercollegiate Track Meet.

June 3—7, School Boys Military Tournament.

“	8,	Cornell—Carlisle Base Ball Game.

“	13,	A.	A.	U.	Championships, Handicaps.

“	14,	“	“	Junior.

“	15,	“	“	Senior.

“	17	& 18, A. A. U. Basket Ball Championships.

“	22,	Western New York Track Meet.

“	24	& 25, Canoe Meet.

“	27,	Volksfest (German Singing Societies).

“	28	& 29, Scottish Games,

fulv 1—3, Canadian-American Lacrosse Championships.

“	4,	All-Around A. A. U. Championships and Handicap Events.

“	5,	Marathon	Race.

“	6,	Exhibition by German Y. M. C. A.

“	10	& 11, Interscholastic Basket Ball,

“	12	& 13, National Interscholastic Track and Field.

“	15	— 20, Shooting Meet.

“	23	& 24, National Y. M. C. A. Track and Field Games.

“	26	& 27, Metropolitan Meet A. A. U.

Aug. 5 — 17, Bicycle Races.

“	22	& 23, Firemen’s Tournament.

“	24,	A. A. U. Gvmnastic Championships.

“	28—31,	Irish Sports.

Sept. 2—5, Association Foot Ball.

“	6	& 7, Pan-American World’s Championship. — Cross Country Run

Championships.

“	9—11,	Cattle Show.

“	16—21,	Automobile Week.

Oct. 5, University of B.—Lehigh Foot Ball Game.

“	12,	University of B.—Brown.

“ 19, Cornell—Carlisle Foot Ball Game.

“ 23, Wesleyan—U. of B. Foot Ball Game.

—In the inter-university track sports between Cambridge and Oxford the latter won the series six firsts to four.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-47-

GOLF.

Golf clubs are now made in well-understood patterns, the differences being" only in weight, depth or length of face, or in the choice of materials. In a general way the oddities in these days are furnished by the use of new material for a standard club, as in the aluminium putter, or the new treatment of an old material, shown in the gold or silver plating of iron clubs, according to the New York Sun. In a word, the clubs now are standard in design, for the time is past when players endeavored to improve their game by the invention of clubs of new shape and powers instead of building up the playing ability. With a general improvement in play the odd-shaped clubs have dropped out of sight, but they have left many entertaining memories behind.

The craze for new designs in clubs ran riot in England two or three years before it struck this country. It may be regarded as one of the preliminary stages of acquiring facility at golf, common to all nations that become thoroughly possessed with the golfing fever. The best players in Great Britain and America are now practically of one mind in the choice of club heads, however they may differ in opinion over the length and suppleness of shaft, and in grip, stance, and swing.

In 1896-7 the inventors were at the task of improving the irons and putters. In most instances the iron clubs were only changed by having the angle of the face altered to suit the individual or else the shafts were made short or long. In instances the club heads were weighed with ball of lead and to roughen the face so as to give a better holding surface, was also common. These customs are in vogue now in some cases, but the freak ideas are not so extreme as they used to be.

Freak clubs and methods for a long time were rampant in putting. Some putted with little croquet mallets, used with one hand while others had two-handed clubs that they swung like the pendulum of a clock. There are still as many stiles in putting as there are players, the only test being the ability to> get the ball into the hole from any part of the green in two strokes.

LAWN TENNIS.

The delegates to the annual meeting of the National Lawn Tennis Association held a session at the Hotel Waldorf in New York. The constitution was amended to make the executive committee of the association include seven members in addition to the four officers. All of the old members were re-elected and Champion M. 0. Whitman and R. D. Little were added to their number as members of the committee. As now constituted, according to reports by the New York Sun, the board is as follows:

President Dr. James Dwight, Boston; vice-president, J. S. Clarke, Philadelphia; treasurer, Richard Stevens, Hoboken; secretary, P. E. Presbrey, Boston. Executive committee—0. S. Campbell and R. D. Wrenn, New York; W. A. Larned^ Summit, N. J.; M. D. Whitman, Boston; D. F. Davis, St. Louis; J. P. Gardner, Chicago, R. D. Little, Princeton, and the officers.

Two points in the playing rules of the game were brought up and each caused prolonged discussion. The rule governing the position of the server, generally known as the “foot fault” rule, was amended only as to the technical wording, although two new rules were suggested to take its place. One calling for the back foot of the server to remain on the ground until after the service is delivered, and agreeing in other details with the English law, was advocated by a strong contingent, but it was decided to appoint a committee to confer with an English committee for the purpose of agreeing on an international rule that could be adopted next year, both here and abroad.

THE YALE-HARVARD RACES.

It was decided at a recent conference of the captains and managers of the Yale and Harvard crews that the annual rowing contests shall be held at New London on June 27, the Thursday following the Harvard commencement. They will be rowed in the following order: ‘Varsity four-oar, freshman eight-oar and and the ‘varsity eight-oar. The freshman and four-oared races will be over a two-mile course, the ’varsity eight-oar over a four-mile course.

Digitized by

Go $le
-48-

It was decided that neither Harvard nor Yale would enter the intercollegiate boat race at Poughkeepsie, and that they would not take a third college into the races at New London for at least another year.

AN AMERICAN HENLEY.

An American Henley is now practically assured as a result of some quiet planning and work of some of Boston’s best known rowing men, aided by Walter Camp, in New York, and other cities. The plans contemplate inviting the larger athletic clubs, such as the New York A. C., the Boston A. A., and rowing colleges, such as Harvard, Yale, Cornell, and Pennsylvania, and rowing clubs like the Union Boat Club, of Boston, and the Philadelphia Barge Club, to come into an association and send entries to compete in a week’s racing to be held over the Thames course at New London, toward the end of June, at the same time as the annual Harvard-Yale contests. It is not intended that the new organization shall antagonize the National Association of Amateur Oarsmen nor interfere with the open regattas now held all over the country.

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.*

—At Corpus Christi College, Oxford, there are about fifty men, all of whom read for honors. This small college supports a football eleven, a football fifteen, a cricket eleven, an eight, and a torpid; the sum of these teams amounts to fifty-five, so there can be few unathletic men in this college.

—The golf championship will be played off on the links of the Mj'opice Hunt Club near Boston, June 11—13.

—Oxford beat Cambridge in their annual association football game 3 to 2-

—Lawn Tennis is enjoying a great boom at Monte Carlo.

—Arrangements are being made for a football game between Pennsylvania and the University of Iowa.

—The West Point Cadets held their annual indoor games March 23. There were broadsword contests, tug of war, foil fencing, club swinging, and horizontal bar competition. Every class competed for the prizes and championships.

—The contests in w'hich Cornell will compete are as follows : April 27, University of Pennsylvania, relay carnival at Philadelphia; May 11, dual meet with Syracuse, at Syracuse; May 24 and 25, intercollegiate meet in New York City; May 30, dual meet with Princeton at Elmira; May 31 and fune 1, intercollegiate meet in Buffalo. This schedule will give Cornell an unusually busy season, as there are two more contests than were arranged last year. The intercollegiate meet in Buffalo, while not a championship* contest, will very likely attract considerable attention, as Cornell has many alumni in Buffalo and other alumni throughout the state who will profit by the track team’s visit to take in the Pan-American Exposition.

—The annual football game between England and Scotland resulted in a draw this season the score being two goals each.

—Oxford won the annual boat race from Cambridge this year after one of the most exciting contests ever witnessed between these Universities.

—In all probability there will be a Harvard-Yale vs. Oxford-Cambridge athletic contest in September, two conferences have been held to discuss the matter.

—Ellis Ward will coach the crew that Pennsylvania will send to the Henley regatta and Josh Ward will have charge of the crew that is to row in the intercollegiate regatta at Po'keepsie.

—William Coe, the Harvard athlete, is having a very successful tour through England. At the recent games at Cambridge University he won the shot put with a put of 43 ft. 4 in., breaking the Cambridge University record.

—Irving K. Baxter, Pennsylvania’s famous high jumper, has been invited to take charge of the University of Iowa’s track team for the coming season.

Digitized by v^.ooQle