Vol. g.	AUGUST, 1902.	No. 102
		

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago Normal School, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee. Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

EFFECT of ATHLETICS UPON GROWING BOYS*

By DR. WATSON L. SAVAGE, Columbia Uhiversity.

IN offering this subject for your consideration I present a problem suggested by the examination of boys entering the freshman class of Columbia University, and one that must come before secondary schools for solution. That we may understand clearly its scope, it is necessar}* first to define and classify athletics. The word is here used to include all forms of competitive games, sports and contests requiring exertion, in which the boys in our secondary schools participate, be it a game of golf on the one hand or an eight-oared boat race on the other. But as it will be impossible in the limited time allowed for this paper to take up each game and analyze it, I have classified them and shall use one as a type of its class. These may be classified under three heads : 1. Individual Antagonistic. 2. Team contests. 3. Racing.

The first division includes such games as are participated in by two or more men, each one depending upon his own individual effort and of short duration, as golf, boxing, fencing, wrestling, handball, tennis, jumping, vaulting, shot-putting, hammer-throwing, discus-throwing,

* Republished from the Am. Phys. Ed. Review.

Digitized by U,ooQle
-122-

gymnastics, etc. This first group may be subdivided, according to the character of the sport, as follows:	(a) golf, tennis, handball, squash,

racquets, all of them light action movements attacking alternately a ball ; (b) fencing, boding, wrestling, sports of direct personal contact; (c) shot-putting, hammer-throwing, high and broad jumping, discus-' throwing, pole-vaulting, heavy gymnastics, etc., all requiring extreme effort of short duration.

In the second group, team contests, a given number of men contend against an equal number, each playing or having a distinct p^rt to perform. The sub-divisions are two:	(a)	cricket	and baseball, where one

team rests and the other performs the bulk of the work, while the plays require skill rather than strain, and the duration of effort is short; (b) basketball, lacrosse, the various polos, hockey, football, etc., where both teams play at the same time for a given period.

The third and last large group, racing, comprises:	(a) rowing, run-

ning, swimming, bicycling, etc., where the single individual is competing against one or more, doing the same act continuously for a given distance or length of time; (b) contests in which all the players on each side are performing the same thing at the same time, such as tug-of-war and crew rowing, the strain being continuous for the full period of the contest.

Division (a) of the first group—golf, squash, tennis, handball, etc.,— is classified according to the strain upon the heart. Golf would hardly be considered a game of sufficient activity for healthy boys bubbling over with youthful vigor; yet it has excellent qualities, recommending it to all ages, both sexes, and all degrees of physical condition, and better for approaching second childhood than in leaving the first. Squash ball is a cross between tennis and handball, quite new in this country and little known. Tennis developes quickness of action and thought and a high degree of co-ordination. Its strain upon the heart is limited, owing to the nature of the game, for it has frequent intervals of rest, but it has also the disadvantage of being a one-handed sport. I shall therefore take handball as the best type of this group, and the most severe, requiring as it does the use of both hands, right or left, as the occasion arises. The ball is in play continuously, but must be reached and played with the hands, requiring bending forward, back and to the sides, and thereby bringing into play the waist, trunk, back and legs. It therefore cultivates quickness of action, mental acumen to the highest degree, judgment of distance, direction, angle, use of force instantly, while the ground must be covered at the same time; decision must be made as to where the ball shall be returned out of reach of the opponent, and a more or less severe strain put upon the heart regulated largely by the skill of the player and his opponent. It should therefore be classed as a vigorous, valuable game for boys, developing quickness of mind and body, judgment of force, angles, distance, reaction, etc., perfect co-ordination without an undue amount of danger from overstrain, since it is always within the power of the player to limit his action; an excellent game to train for most any other form of contest, especially ball games.

As a type of subdivision (b) of this same first group—contests in

Digitized by t^ooQle
-128—

which two men oppose each other—I should select the sport of boxing. This is alight, active exercise which may be taken in moderation and brings the entire bv>dy into activity, the legs being quite as useful as the arms and hands. There is necessity to keep the body on a firm foundation and at the same time to move quickly and in varying directions. During the bout, which is usually limited to periods of short duration, according to the strength of the individual, the muscles of the legs are kept at high tension. The arms are in constant motion and also at high tension in readiness to act in an instant. The muscles of the neck, as well as the back and dorsal muscles, are brought into constant action. The entire muscular system is under tension 4at all times. The brain is kept very sfiarply awake studying the opponent, anticipating his movements, and endeavoring to find an opening for attack or repulsion. The brain becomes very active and there is a nervous strain as well. The activity, excitement and continuous tension make a demand upon the heart and lungs which easily becomes very severe. But this is at times within the power of the individual to fall back upon the defensive, and thus relieve the pressure if it become too great, and gives time to adjust and not to force to a limit, or even to withdraw for a few moments at any stage of the game. The strain upon the organs, however, is so severe that the contest should always be under the control of a master who can observe the conditions of the boys and limit the duration of the bouts.

Some have objected to boxing on the ground that it makes the lad pugnacious and quarrelsome, and inclined to seek fight and arouse trouble. Yet the fact of the case is quite the contrary. A thorough knowledge and the practice necessary to obtain this knowledge will develop the very elements to keep out of trouble with dignity and self-possession, the exercise requiring chiefly quick thought and action. Whatever else he will learn, the boxer will find that to lose his head is to lose everything, and this lesson has accordingly a most beneficial effect on the hot-headed. It is practically thumping into the lad’s head the necessity of the control of his temper. Again, the slow, heavy, sluggish boy will learn one of the best of lessons from this exercise, for it will awaken him and arouse in him an interrest for his work. Most other forms of exercise may be taken in a listless way, but here is one that gives the teacher opportunity to overcome listlessness without incurring criticism for corporal punishment. Further, as your hands are always with you, you have a ready weapon, if made effective with training, for self-preservation and protection in time of need. To sum up, we see that boxing develops quickness of eye, thought and action, self-possession, confidence and courage, a high degree of co-ordination, balance; is a delightful exercise, full of interest anfi skill requiring the use of both hands freely; develops the heart, expands the lungs; improves the carriage; opens the pores of the skin; and in short is a most valuable exercise. Under proper regulation it may be considered one of best general exercises in physical training for schools. It is excellent to prepare men for teams, and might well be made a part of the early training preparatory to such teams. It should not be made merely a small part of the day’s order, but, in that event, should always be limited and kept well in controll by the master in charge.

Digitized by
-124-

Fencing has mail) of the elements of boxing. It develops quickness of eye, co-ordination of the entire body, and is not quite as severe upon the heart. It does not develop courage, as the element of danger is eliminated by protection, is one-sided, and, in this country, has no practical value. The sport is more suited for girls than boys, and there is some danger of inducing curvature of the spine during the growing period, unless sufficient forms of other exercise are given to offset the result of this one-sided work.

Wrestling should be postponed in a boy’s training until the growth has been attained, the bones have become well ossified and the muscular (Jevelopement well advanced. The danger of injury to the body in this sport is greater than the gain in.compensation, and the continued strain put upon the whole system at one time, where the chest wall is contracted, muscles set, breath held, and every force exerted, brings a strain upon the heart that seems to me dangerous.

The sports of division (c) of the first group—shot-put, discus-throwing, hammer-throwing, high and broad jumping, and heavy gymnastics —require extreme effort for their successful performance, a long and thorough course of preparation and training, which from the nature of the case must be progressive. There is no special effort of the brain, the strain upon the heart is limited to a single effort of short duration, followed by a long period of rest and relaxation. While fully aware that the breath is held during an extreme effort, I see no reason why these sports should not became a part of the athletic training of our growing boys. Gymnastics would be considered the best type of these for school boys, as they can be perfectly regulated and require a small amount of mental application, at the same time keeping the organs of the body in a healthier state. I do not care to open up the old question of gymnastics versus athletics at this time, so passing to section (a) of the second large group—cricket and baseball—I should place preference, on the basis of physical strain upon the boy, to the former. Cricket, unfortunately, is little played in this country, baseball being the American game. Both sports require much practice, great skill, judgement of distance, speed, force, calculation, study of position, direction, movement, quickness of action and perfection of co-ordination, in short, are games of a very high educational value, requiring sudden physical exertion of short duration, yet not too highly educational, as’ sometimes argued, for the boy does not know how to use his brain in the game except as he develops and strengthens mentally, while at the same time the danger of over-exertion physically is small.

In the class of sports (2~b) comprising lacrosse, the various polos, hockey, basketball, football etc., both teams are in equal activity during the entire activity of play, which is regulated b}7 a length of time rather than by the exertion required in a number of skillful acts. They require for successful operation continued activity of all participants in the game, broken only by periods of suspension due to the conditions and rules of the game. There are, however, in these sports other intervals for the various members of the teams to get moments of rest and relaxation. Short periods of rest for the player to recover his “wind”, as the expression is, allow opportunity for the heart to adjust itself and for

Digitized by Tooele
-125-

the lungs to get rid of the waste products of exertion. In these games, above all others, the necessity of harmony and co-operation among the players is absolute; the boy must lose his identity and must become a part of one great whole. He must obey implicitv the orders of his captain, and at the same time be alert to carry out his part of the game successfully and vigorously. He needs to be ready to change, on the instant, from attack to defence; he must keep the field in operation constantly in mind, taking advantage of every opening, fill every gap, putting his whole heart and soul into the game. He must be aggressive, fearless and energetic in attacking his adversary, and ready to sacrifice himself at the altar of duty by springing into such a position as to receive the attack and thereby protect his comrades. Such sports bring out every ounce of latent energy there is in a lad. The greater the danger in a game the more forcibly does it operate to develop these characteristics, so that we would place football highest in the category of these sports, and I believe that the occasional injury to the individual is a necessary sacrifice for the good of the many. Nothwithstanding the fact that in every season a number of boys are more or less severely injured, seeming in the aggregate very large, yet from considering the number playing football during the season, this is comparatively small. To offset this damage, we have, I believe, the best game to bring out the strong and vigorous qualities that make men of boys. The strain upon the heart is relieved and lessened by the intervals and breaks iti the game caused by the various rulings and the regulations governing the same. The benefits to be gained by these forms of sports, therefore, must be self-confidence, obedience to commands, courage, aggressiveness, determination, alertness, quickened co-ordination, speed in decision and action, strength of body and generalship. What qualities would be more desirable or valuable to a young man in fighting the battles of life?

r We now arrive at the third and last group, which includes (a) racing in general, such as foot races, skating, swimming, and bicycling; (b) tug-of-war, rowing etc. In all these events the strain is continuous from the beginning to the end. The large muscles of the body which make the greatest demand upon the heart are under severe strain from the firing of the pistol to the finish, and the plucky lad, full of courage and spirit, will not stop until the goal is reached, no matter how great is nature’s outcry. One of the most unfortunate conditions of these con* tests is that skill which requires much preliminary practice plays a very unimportant part; the boy, therefore, does not prepare for the worst before he must tax himself to the limit. In other words, he does not give his heart a chance to become strong enough to fulfill the demands made so severely upon it. One such race is liable to cripple the heart of the rapidly growing boy, and to such extend as to injure him for life. And what isthere to offset this condition0 What compensation has he for the risk he takes ?

This last and most injurious group (3-b) covers contests that require a number of boys to perform the same act for a continuous period, such as tug-of-war, crew rowing, etc. This adds another element of danger over those in the previous group from the fact that every one on the team is controlled by the strongest of them all, and is compelled

Digitized by t^ooQle
-126-

to continue to the very end of the race. While it may be entirely safe for a well trained, vigorous lot of young men who have completed their growth to compete in such events, it is wholly wrong for growing boys to be allowed to put such a tremendous strain upon, the heart as is involved in such a contest. There is no room for question that extreme physical labor is accountable for many heart lesions, and many a lad is handicapped for life by severe physical strain put upon him during the period of development. How many this number is we do not know at present. It is a well known physical fact, however, that heart lesions are far more common among men than among women, and the explanation is made that man’s occupation calls forth greater phycical exertion than that of women, and, continuing the point of comparison, boys’ sports are of a severer physical nature than those of girls. In our examination of young men on entering college, we find cases, where the heart’s action has been uncertain, irritable, irregular, rapid and exitable, with faint lesions and murmurs of the mitral valve, for which we could find no cause, reason or history except early-followed and excessive athletics, and those of the group last mentioned. I believe the danger to be principally during the period of life from twelve to sixteen, or the period of rapid growth.

The argument may be offered that it is unconsistent to permit boys to play football when the injury resulting is sometimes serious and apparently more frequent of occurrence than in racing. To this I shall reply that the benefits gained in the one game more or less justify the risks taken, while in racing there is little to say that is favorable. What can be the educational value in a distance foot race to the boy, say, of 14 years, since it is merely a case of physical strain without due compensation.

The argument of the greater damage in the one sport is not verified by facts. Consider that the number who participate in football is far greater than that of those who engage in this class of racing. In addition, the injury received in football is evident on the surface, for it is external and readily diagnosed, and may be directly charged to the sport. Such injuries are usually of a temporary character and are not detrimental to the boy’s usefulness in after life, while the exact reverse is true in the case of an overstrained heart. I claim that the real and permanent danger is more frequent and more serious, and the compensation at least questionable in the latter sport.

That early racing makes a more competent athlete later in life I am covinced is false from the records of interc’ollegiate champions. It is an exceptional case where a boy who was a champion junior in his school becomes both a scholastic champion and an intercollegiate champion in middle and long distance events. The occasional instance of this kind has usually been a boy older than the average school lad, whose utmost effort had accomplished this feat after the period of growth and when he had become mature and settled. Rather how many cases do we observe from our scholastis records of young men who gave great promise when put into college contests yet failed to fulfill expectations! And why does this happen so often? The usual explanation offered is that the boy is superior in company and thereby outclassed. My own belief

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—127—

is that he is outclassed, not always because he did not originally possess the qualities of a champion, but that he was allowed to exert himself beyond his capacity during his younger days, thereby aborting his capabilities.

During the years of rapid growth, the system under natural conditions has much more labor put upon it than at any other time in life, and, unfortunately, it is also the period when the mental strain due to our present educational arrangements is far too great. Let us, then, whose duty it is to safeguard the health of the student, refrain from permitting a third baleful influence by allowing over-exertion in physical effort. From this standpoint, I deem that the physical director of the secondary shool has the greatest responsibility and the most delicate duty to perform, and should correspondingly be the best qualified.

I would particularly recommend and can not too strongly urge the carefal examination of the heart both before and after exertion, and the recording in each case of the branch of sport in which the youth participated. In following out this plan it would be most interesting to note the length of time the heart takes in every case of athletic effort to recover its normal rate. To be sure, this would be one guide, but that one not requiring a foreknowledge of medicine. Under these precautions, I would recommend the games of group I, a, b, and c, with the exeption of wrestling, and classes a and b of the second group, since these create (i) a healthy spirit of rivalry in schools, (2) are valuable factors in education, (4) they tend to improve the health with the minimum danger of serious injury. Lastly. I would recommend that all games requiring a continuous severe strain upon the heart of more than thirty seconds, such as running, swimming, rowing, skating, cycling, tug-of-war, be eliminated from the sports in our secondary schools, because:

1.	They are entirely unnecessary to the school.

2.	Because they have little_or no educational value to the student.

3.	Because the may abort the future capabilities of the lad in athletics.

4.	Because they endanger the health and future life of the boy.

GAMES FOR SCHOOLS AND GYMNASIA. By W. C. SCHAEFER. Milwaukee, 1900. Freidenker Publishing Co. pp. 36; Bound half cloth. Price 50c.—The scarcity of text books on movement games for the girls and boys in our American public and private schools has long been felt as a grievous want. Of German books on the movement games there has never been a lack, but the English litterature was devoid of any acceptable collections of such games. Mr. Schaefer has undertaken the task to collaborate such a book with great insight and circumspection. The games are conspicuously arranged under different headings from sound pedagogical points of view and well classified for girls and boys. No teacher of our public, private, and gymnastic schools having Anglo-American pupils under his or her care can afford to be without this book. It embodies moral and physical as well as intellectual elements and is sure to attract the attention of every progressive pedagogue.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY’’ free to you for one year on receiot of $<t.00 for 4 new subscribers.
-128-

CBy permission of Hearst’s Chicago American.)

SCIENTIFIC DISCOVERIES OF THE SECRETS OF ATHLETIC SUCCESS.

By Dr. J. HERICOURT.

Paris, May 16,

AT THE time of the international athletic contests during the Paris Exposition of 1900 a commission composed of physiologists, hygienists, and other scientists was appointed by the French Government to study the effect of different sports on the body and to compare their merits from the hygienic point of view.

This commission was instructed to determine what relation exists between the physical formation of various individuals and their aptitude for certain sports, and also to discover if a special developement of a certain part of the body takes place through the exclusive or predominating practice of certain exercises.

Fig. i. The American Ewry, Making the Standing High Jump by a Brilliant Sidewise Method.

The program was vast and necessitated a tremendous number of observations, the greater part of which could only be made with special apparatus. Soon the commission stumbled over the principal difficulty, which was to induce the contestants to lend themselves before and after the sports to minute and fatiguing examinations. This difficulty was partly removed through the courtesy of the director of the racing club where a lage number of the competitions took place. There the scientists were able to apply to an analysis of the movements of running, jumping, throwing the discus, and putting the shot a method in physiological studies.

This method is known as “chronophotography”, or “time photography”, and is the invention of Dr. Marey, of the French Institute. It permits the exact analysis in form, succession, and rapidity of all movements however rapid they may be. The inventor is one of the greatest scientists in France, and he was honored recently by a great reception in the College de France. The kinetoscope of Edison and the kine-matograph of M. Lumiere are regarded by Frenchmen as mere adaptations of Dr. Marey’s system. In the kinetoscope the eyes see a series of photographic images follow one another at intervals so brief that it keeps the impression of one image while the next is in sight, so

Digitized by kaOOQle
-129-

that there is no interruption of the impression which has proved of the greatest value upon the eye. These images have all been taken at equal intervals upon a long film, while the subject executed certain movements. When the images are passed befor the eye again they show the subject in attitudes always changing, which reproduce movement itself*

By drawing on a sheet of paper the enlarged outlines of these successive attitudes Dr. Marey obtains for certain specified points such as the head, the trunk or the limbs curves which show the whole of the movement exactly and the time in which it was performed.

The accompanying chronophotgraphic illustrations will give an excellent idea of the results obtained by this method. They reveal the secret mechanism of some of the most complicated exersises performed by the most famous athletes in Europe and the United States.

Fig. No. 1 shqws the American, Ray C. Ewry, making a standing high jump. This picture, in the opinion of the French scientists, shows an economy of strength that is extremely remarkable. The figure shows that he starts presenting his side to the obstacle and then throws himself upward. As soon as the lower part of the trunk has risen as high as the bar he raises his left leg just enough to clear the obstacle, and then he lifts the right leg over in its turn just at the moment when his body is beginning to fall on the further side of the obstacle. This method is shaving the obstacle by passing over it with the least possible distance to spare is very striking, and it is only necessary to see a picture of the Frenchman making a standing jump writh both feet together to understand the enormous superiority of the American style. The Frenchman, with both his legs under him, has to “raise his body two or three feet more in order to clear the same height. Some of the French athletes said that the American method was a trick, and ought not to be allowed; but this view was not admitted by the authorities.

In Fig. No. 2 we see the American runner Kraenzlein clearing a three-feet-six hurdle. He leans very much forward, especially at the moment of clearing the hurdle. The value of this American system of hurdle jumping is that the centre of gravity is carried at small height and requires very little effort for the jumper to clear the obstacle.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-130-

An illustration of putting the shot shows with equal clearness the reason of the superiority of one of the contestants, who is again an American—Sheldon. The competitors had to throw a sixteen pound shot. Fig. No. 3 shows the American champion (Sheldon) taking his spring from the right foot, while with his right hand he holds the shot against his shoulder. It is only after this hop and resting on the left

Fig. 3. Sheldon Putting the Shot, Using Arms and Legs. foot that he begins to Stretch OUt

his arm, the force of which he increases very much by jumping upward. On the other hand, the start of the Frenchman in Fig. No. 4 is much less energetic. The stretching out of his arm is more nearly upright, but he does not accompany it with the jump wich adds so much to the result.

In reality the American athlete throws the shot as much with his lower limbs as with his arms, while the French athlete only makes use of his arms.

Figure No. 5 shows the American (Kraenzlein) making his winning broad jump. It shows the jumper starting from the left foot at the end of his run and finishing up on his heels. His arms, which are raised at the moment of the take-off, are then carried forward, then down, and then behind; they are raised again and complete this turning movement twice during the time of the jump.

As he has no obstacle to clear, the jumper allows his legs to hang almost vertically under him, but he would have drawn them up closely under him if he were taking a hurdle.

These figures are of value as showing the use of the arms in jumping, a matter which is very imperfectly understood. They prove that while the legs are able to help the arms in throwing a weight, the arms, in their turn, can greatly assist the legs in jumping.

In throwing the discus the Frenchman in putting the shot, hardly makes use of anything but the strength of his arm. The American, on the other hand, by a powerful motion of his legs turns on himself very rapidly, while his arm with muscles relaxed, flies round like a cord with a weight at the end of it. Suddenly the discus escapes from his hand, splits the air with its edge and falls far away.

It is interesting to know that the French, the Danes, and the Greeks

Fig. 4. Frenchman Putting the Shot without Using His Legs.

Digitized by U.ooQle
-131-

in this exercise were copying as closely as possible the attitude of the immortal Discobolus, of Myron, and other famous statues of Greek athletes. The comparison would seem to show the great progress Americans have made over the heroes of antiquity.

These human documents, furnished by chronophotography, prove one very important fact in the science of athletics. This is, that victory belongs not to those who can make the greatest effort in a limited group of muscles, but to those who can make the largest number of muscles participate in an exercise. Thus we see in the high jump that it is much better to be able to lower the centre of gravity by bending

Fig. 5. Long Jump by Kraenzlein. Time, 3-4 Seconds.

the spine than to jump very high; that rather than great biceps to throw the shot or the discus, it is better to rely on the muscles of the thighs and trunk, and that in the standing high jump it is indispensable to raise one’s self as much with the arms as with the legs. Superiority belongs to those who have the science of making use of all these elements. Nature always takes the way of least resistance. In the field of sport, as in others, the strongest are the cleverest.

. In reference to the shot put the method adopted by most good weight putters is the followingThe putter stands at the back of the circle, holds the weight in his right hand (supposing him to be right-handed) and balances his body on his right leg. After having acquired his balance and limbered the muscles of his arm by ‘stretching it to its full extent and again lowering the weight close to the neck, follows a quick hop to the centre of the circle; then, with a sharp spring, the right side of the body is brought sharply to the front, landing on the right leg, the arm and body shoot out in unison with the concentrated effort of the entire muscular system. The arm is extended forward, slightly up-.ward and, as practiced by some, to lean over the toe board helping the impetus.—Ed.

Digitized by

Google
AAiND ftND BODY.

Published Monthly.

BY

Sabscrfption Price, $1.00 per Year.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO

Ml T ■wauk—, "Wa.®c©».»laa.-

$3T Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

ANNUAL CONVENTION OF THE PHYSICAL DIRECTORS OF THE N. A. G. U.

THE Physical Directors of the North American Gymnastic Union convened on the 9, 10, and 11th of July at Davenport, la., with an attendance of nearly 100 delegates from all parts of the country.

Henry Suder, of Chicago, chairman of the technical committee of the N. A. G. U., called the delegates to order and delivered a short address, among other remarks referring to the object of the convention. The election of officers resulted in:—Wm. Reuter, of Davenport, la., president, Geo. Wittich, of St. Louis, Mo., vice-president, Hugo Fisher, of Indianapolis, Ind., secretary, and Frank Gerlich, of Chicago, assistant secretary.

Dr. H. E. Arnold, of Yale University, delivered a paper on Gymnastic Tactics, describing the principles and advantages of successful application, the worth therein contained, and why they deserve a conspicuous place in conjunction with the regular gymnasium work. The paper was ably prepared and well delivered; it was highly appreciated by the delegates, receiving prolonged applause,

A lengthy discussion followed in which Dr. Henry Hartung, Henry Suder, of Chicago, 111., A. E. Kindervater, and Geo. Wittich, of St. Louis, Mo., and many other delegates participated, taking up the remainder of the morning.

In the afternoon a trolly car party was arranged for, conducting the delegates through the cities of Davenport, la., Rock Island, and Moline, 111., where a visit was extended to the local turner societies, the delegates being well received and banqueted. On the return trip the historic and picturesque scenery of the Rock Island Arsenal and the Black Hawk Watch Tower was enjoyed.

In the evening a short but most interesting gymnastic exhibition was rendered b}' the junior, senior, and ladies classes of the Davenport Turngemeinde, under the directorship of their instructor Wm. Reuter. The delegates were delighted with the drills and faultless execution by all participants, and they did not hesitate offering well earned applause.

During the morning of the second day’s session, Dr. Henry Hartung, of Chicago, 111., was to have delivered a paper, but owing to the doctor representing the N. A. G. U. and delivering an address at the convention of the National Teacher’s Association at Minneapolis, and no other assayist having been substituted, the Physical Director’s

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

Digitized by

Google
-133-

Association took up and completed the business of their annual session instead.

In the afternoon the delegates again met. Lengthy discussions were participated in concerning the worth of the many systems of physical training that are now in vogue throughout the country, and the authors of which claim to be able to restore any deformity or whatsoever ailment may exist.

The conclusion arrived at met with the unanimous approval of the delegates, to wit: that, if the principles of the German American system of physical training are properly observed, this system is equal to any other, and far superior to many.

After a few less important problems were cleared up the convention adjourned to convene at Detroit, Mich., in the local Turnverein, during the early part of July 1903, and arrange for a summer course to be held at Put-in-Bay, 0., following that convention.

The summer course, during July 14—15 of this year, had an attendance of 42. The course was under the direction of the technical committee of the N. A. G. U, and conducted by the instructors as mentioned in the July issue with the additional service of Mr. Henry Etling of Pittsburg, Pa., who had charge of the marching calisthenics and dancing steps in the large gymnasium of the Davenport Turngemeinde. All participants took a lively interest in the work as mapped out by the instructors.

The next biennial convention of the N. A. G. U. will be held at Pittsburg, Pa., in 1904, and the next quadrennial gymnastic and ath-lethic meet will be held at Indianapolis, Ind., in the year 1905.

BOOK REVIEW.

'.AH the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co.; Milwaukee.)

—The August Delinator is a special fiction number and a most attractive midsummer issue. The spell of the season is over its pages, and those who have delayed the completion of the summer wardrobe will find compensation in some late designs that are daintily charming. The fiction consists of six short stories—two of novelette length. Virginia Woodward Cloud, one of the brightest writers of to-day, has found an unusually good theme for the display of her talent in The Understudies, a series of mishaps assisting in the developing of a pretty romance. Julian Van Boskirk, new writer of ability, contributes While the Fates Slept, a love story with spirited action and fine character drawing. The four storiettes, each having a distinct interest, will make a sultry afternoon pass pleasantly. All the stories are illustrated in the artistic manner characteristic of the magazine. One of the many unannounced features is the story of the building and furnishing of a charming and artistic, yet inexpensive, house, told in narrative form by Grace McGowan Cooke ; many photopraphs and drawings are given with it. Dr. Murray’s new paper in the series of the training of children treats of precocity. The departments in the magazine are standard, but the matter in them is always new and timely. Miss Kellog writes on the Afternoon Tea Table. Margaret Hall in her cookery lessons deals with entrees. There is a chapter for Cold Dishes on Hot Days, and two pages illustrating a delicious Summer dinner. Club Women is interesting on account of the Los Angeles convention, and the pictures of the new officers.

ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends.
-134-

THE EXERCISES AND REEL ETC.,

COMPOSED FOR THE JUVENILE DISPLAY AT STEMPEL’S SCIENTIFIC PHYSICAL TRAINING INSTITUTE, GYMNASIUM AND ACADEMIE D’ARMS, MARCH 15, 1902.

By ADOLF A. STEMPEL, M. G. T. I., Sole Proprietor and Director of Stempel’s Physical Training Institute and Gymnasium, 76 Albany St., Regent's Park, London, N. W. President of the Gymnastic Teacher’s Institute, London, and Founding Member of the “Academie d’Arms, Londres”.

EXPLANATION TO THE FLAG REEL.

The flag stick measures 1 inch in circumference, the handle resembles the end of a club, the shaft is one inch in circumference, the flag, made of bunting, must not form creases. The Union Jack would also look well, the Stars and Stripes still better.

The number of pupils is sixteen and if possible chosen of same height. The flags, one in each hand, to be carried with straight arms, the little finger under the knob of the handle, the upper end laid against the upper arm, the circle on which all pupils have to march should be chalked slightly on the floor and divided by crossing lines, as shown here.

The diameter of the circle should measure at least 18 feet, a little more (say 20 feet) would giye more free space for the exercises. The circle circumference should be subdivided again into four equal parts, each quarter so that every pupil will stand at an equal distance from the neighbor.

The whole march and exercises are performed in march time and one of Sousa’s fine marches, or several marches played one into another, will suit very well. I had three or four of his marches played one into another, which did splendily, like “El Capitan”, ‘‘Stars and Stripes” etc. The exercises are performed with 4 beats to each movement. Viz:—At 1 do the exercise, at 2, 3 and 4 pause, and so on. (This will give time for any one who is a little behind to recover, and will suit well for the work).

The pupils are numbered from 1 to 16; particulary for the four leaders No. 1, 5, 9 and 13 steady pupils are necessary. They enter in single file and march into a right circle until all are in their right places (Fig. 1).

4 steps, (mark time).

*4 turn to the r. (to centre) in 4 paces.

4 paces, (mark time).

Digitized by L.ooQle
-135-

Even numbers one step forward and one step sideward 1. (4 paces) and 1. about, turn (also 4 paces), together 8 paces at the same time.

Odd numbers 8 paces, (mark time), (Fig. 2).

4 paces (mark time).

Circle to the 1. in couples in 8 paces (partner around partner) with 1. flag high, crossing the flag of neighbor (on the first step 1. flag up, on the eighth step, when arriving in their places, 1. flag down).

Circle to the r. in couples in 8 paces with r. flag crossing r. flag of neighbor. (On the 16th step all must have arrived in their right places after circling 1., then r., flags down in position).

4 paces, (mark time), first exercise of 8 movements to follow, repeat twice in succession).

FIRST EXERCISE.

1.	Stride position sideward 1., thrust 1. flag obliquely 1. above head. Arm and flag in the same line.

2.	Swing one 4|4 outside circle with 1. flag close and in front of body (downward 1.), back to the oblique position over head..

3.	Swing one 4i4 outside circle to rear, close to body, with 1. flag by turning on both heels to 1., and turn the body to the front as soon as 1. flag is again in oblique position.

4.	Close heels and 1. flag back to position.

•	(16	beats).

5.	6, 7, 8. Repeat the same exercises to the r. (also 16 beats).

Repeat the whole once more from 1 to 8.

4 paces, (mark line).

Circle 1. in couples with 1. flag crossing partner’s 1. flag (wheel circling), 8 paces, (on the 8th step 1. flag to position).

4 paces forward to exchange partner, on 4th step face front to new partner (Fig. 3).

The 4 steps will alwaj's pass the nearest partner and lead to the next following one, viz.:—No. 1 to come together with No. 2, and No. 2 with No. 5, etc. Repeat this exchange of partners 8 times until every one has returned to the original place; on the last step all couples facing each other. (96 steps).

4 paces, (mark time).

Here follows the 2nd exercise of 8 movements, twice repeating 4 beats to each movement.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-136-SECOND EXERCISE.

1.	Lunge sideward 1. and thrust obliquely 1. upward with both flags, placing the flags so that the 1. flag is high above the r., the arm partly bent in front of chest (both flags and points must-be parallel under each other.

2.	Change knee bending, straightening 1. and bending r. knee; swing both flags downward from the 1. close to the-body and obliquely to the r., throwing the r. flag above the 1.

3.	Change knee bending as at 1, (first position), and swing both flags downward r. close to the body and obliquely upward 1., swing' left flag above the r.

4.	Close heels and swing both flags back to position.

5.	6, 7, 8. Repeat the same exercise to the right.

Repeat the whole from 1 to 8.

4 paces (mark time).

Even numbers 2 paces backward and 2 paces, together 4 paces (mark time), (Fig. 4).

Odd numbers 4 paces (mark time).

4 paces, (mark time).

Here follows the third exercise in 8 movements, repeat twice in succession, 4 beats to each movement.

THIRD EXERCISE.

1.	Stride position forward 1., simultaneously swing in low circles downward, crossing each other in a low horizontal line with straight arms, which must not be raised, so the shafts of the flags join low, leaving a clear space between both flags.

2.	Kneel on r. knee and raise both flags horizontally above head (keeping the flag shafts in the same position firm with both hands fixed together, the head appears between both flags when flags are raised with straight arms above head.

3.	Extend knees and lower both flags horizontally to low front position, keeping them firmly fixed.

4.	Close heels and in a short downward swing circle both flags back to position.

5.	6, 7, 8. Repeat the same exercise to the right.

4 paces, (mark time).

Even numbers % turn r. in 2 paces, and 2 paces (mark time).

Odd numbers 4 paces obliquely 1, to the centre between the even numbers, and on the 4th pace turn *4 to the 1. (Fig- 5).

4 paces, (mark time).

Digitized by L.ooQle
-137-

All in circle to the r. raise r. flag on first step high, so that all the points of the flags meet on centre. As soon as the circle is completed and every one has arrived on the right place, right flag down to position on the last step (altogether 24 steps).

4 paces, (mark time).

All 1. about turn in 4 paces.

4 paces, (mark time).

All in circle to the I. raise 1. flag on the first step high to the centre and point all flags together; on the completion of the circle 1. flag downward to position on last step, (altogether 24 steps).

All Vi turn r. (to the outside) in 4 paces.

4 paces, (mark time).

All 4 paces forward to the circumference of large circle (Fig. 6), this in 4 paces forward, and on the 4th r. foot is brought sharply” up to the 1. foot.

4 paces, (mark time).

L. about, turn in 4 paces, (facing centre). (Fig. 6).

4 paces, (mark time).

Vi wheel 1. in sections of four to join in centre in 4 paces: (Fig. 7).

4 paces, (mark time).

In star r. wheel, always 4 paces to the Vi wheel and 4 paces, (mark time), when completing the Vi wheel; to repeat 4 times, (32 paces).

4 paces, (mark time).

L. about, turn in 4 paces.

4 paces, (mark time).

In star 1. wheel similar as before, viz. 4 paces to the Vi wheel and 4 paces (mark time), (32 paces).

4 paces, (mark time).

Vi turn r. in 2 paces and 2 paces, (mark time). (All turning in files to the outside).

4 paces, (mark time).

4th exercise in 8 movements to follow.

4th exercise in 8 movements to be repeated twice in succession (16 movements, 4 beats to each movement).

FOURTH EXERCISE.

1.	Extend 1. leg obliquely forward (toe touch), thrust both flags obliquely above head (flags and arms keep distinctly in the same line).

2.	Swing both arms in inside circle (upward and toward the body) and, by crossing the arms, down to the ground; bend body slightly forward, keeping the 1. leg straight but lower 1. heel to floor. The 1. flag touches the ground with the point on the right side of bocty, and the r. flag outside the 1. foot.
-138-

3.	Swing both flags upward in outside circle to the oblique position as before, raising the body, and throw the same well backward; raise 1. heel.

4.	Close heels and both flags back to position.

5.	6, 7, 8. Repeat the same exercise to the right.

Repeat the whole from 1 to 8.

4 paces, (mark time).

Forming from sections of fours into squares of fours, and on the last step turn face and body to the centre of the formed square, all in 4 paces. (Fig. 8). Viz.: No. 1, 2,-5, 6,-9, 10,-13, 14, one step sideward 1. and turn obliquely to the centre of their square. No. 3, 4,-7, 8—, 11, 12,-15, 16 in 4 paces obliquely 1. forward and turn on the last step obliquely to the centre of their square.

4 paces, (mark time).

5th exercise in 8 movements, to be repeated twice in succession (16 movements, 4 beats to each movement).

FIFTH EXERCISE.

1.	Stride position obliquely backward I. and swing both flags, crossing each other low in front of body and under opposite arm (bringing the points of the flags well upward so that they can be seen above the shoulders), leaning the body well backward. Head up.

2.	Kneel on 1. knee and swing both flags from under the arms downward and upward in inside circle obliquely above the head, arms straight and point of flags in line with arms.

3.	Extend knees, swing in outside circle both flags (downward and crossing them low back under opposite arm), and bend body backward (to 1st position).

4.	Close heels and swing both flags in low inside circles back to position.

5.	6, 7, 8. Repeat the same exercise to the right.

Repeat the whole from 1 to 8.

4 paces, (mark time).

Vs turn to the 1. in 2 paces and 2 paces, (mark time), (four paces).

Wheel in stars to the r. in 8 paces, raise r. flag on the 1st step high to centre of square, bring all the 4 points of the 4 flags together; on the last step (the 8th) return r. flag to position. (Fig. 9).

4 paces, (mark time).	9

Digitized by t^.ooQle
-139-

Reform into single file on the circumference of large circle m 4 paces, all to face in line of file in r. circle, (Fig. 10).

Viz: No. 1, 5, 9, 13 Vs turn to the 1. and 1 step forward and 2 paces (4 paces), (mark time. No. 2, 6, 10, 14 Vi turn to the r., one step forward and

*4 turn to the r. (all in 4 paces). No. 3, 7, 15 remain in their places, (mark time), 4 paces. No. 4, 9, 12,16 two steps obliquely, step to the front and *4 turn r. (in 4 paces).

4 paces, (mark time).

Trot in circle r., thrust both flags above head with straight arms, holding them there during the run.

Maze to the r.

Counter 1.

Trot leading out of hall.

Finis.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Physical Director, Northside Turnverein, Milwaukee, Wis.

(Continued.)

A CLASS DRILL, exercises in divisions on the apparatus, and closing with a knapsack contest (see explanation below). The preliminary, similar to that in the July issue.

From a front line count off fours and sixes and open ranks forward to two steps distance.

WAND DRILL.

(Wooden, or iron 5 wands.)

. 1. a) Toe-touch forward left and raise wand forward to vertical position (both arms extended, left hand above)—1! Position —2! Same right—3, 4!

b)	Toe-touch sideways left and raise wand sideways left (right hand in front of left schoulder)—1! Position—2! Sameright—8to4I

c)	Crosstoe-touch forward left and raise wand sidevjays right (the left hand behind the head and wand resting on right arm)—1 ! Position—2! Same opposite—3, 4!

Digitized by Google
—140—

d)	Toe-touch backward left and raise wand forward overhead—1! Position—2! Same right—3, 4!

2.	a) Bend knees (full distance) and raise wand forward—1! Position—2 ! Lunge forward left and raise wand upward left (right hand in front of left shQulder)—3! Position —4! Same right 1—4! and alternately—1 to 8! b) Bend knees (full distance) and raise wand forward overhead—1! Position—2! Lunge backward left and raise wand forward left (right hand under left shoulder)—3! Position—4! Same right 1—4! Alternately 1 to 8!

2.	a) Jump to stride position sideways and raise wand forward—1! Bend trunk forward, raise wand overhead and lower behind shoulder (back flat)—2! As 1—3! Position—4! b) Jump to cross-stride position (left foot forward) and raise wand forward overhead—1! Bend trunk backward, bend arms, cross left over right in front of shoulders—2! As 1—3! Position 4! Same right—5 to 8!

Grasp wand about its center with the left hand and raise forward to vertical position, the right hand on hip.

4.	a) Pronate and supinate forearm 8 to 12 times. Same right, b) Same as a, but arm in position sideways left. Same right.

5.	a) Raise left knee forward and wand in front of shoulders—1! Ex-

tend left leg and arms forward—2! As 1—3! Position—4! Same right 5 to 8 ?

b) As a, but extend the leg sideways and arms upward. Same right. Resting position or some variety of gymnastic tactics.

6.	a) Toe-touch forward, raise wand forward left (right hand under

left shoulder)—1! Bendkneestep backward left, raise wand upward and lower to backward downward obliquely—2! As 1—3! Position—4! Same right 1 to 4! Alternately 1 to 8! b) Toe-touch and raise wand sideways left—1! Crossbendkneestep backward left, carry wand overhead, and lower obliquely in the rear of shoulders (right arm downward obliquely and left hand over left shoulder)—2! As 1—3! Position 4! Same opposite — Alternately 1 to 8!

7.	Jump to stride position sideways and raise wand forward overhead —1! Turn trunk left, move right arm forward and left backward (wand in cross horizontal position overhead)—2! As 1—3! Position—4 ! Same opposite—1 to 4 ! Alternately 1 to 8!

8.	Lunge and raise wand sideways left—1! Remain in lunging position, bend trunk sideways left, swing wand downward, and raise upward right (wand in line with the trunk)—2! As 1—3! Position —4! Same opposite—1 to 4! Alternately 1 to 8!

9.	Stationary run; raise left' or* right leg forward alternately; raise wand in various positions and hold the same a given number of counts before changing to the next.

10.	Breathing exercice: Inhale and raise wand forward overhead—l! Exhale an(^ lower wand forward to starting position—2! Slowly six or eight times.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-141-

b) As a, with wide grasp, but lower wand backward and return in reverse order.

Carry wand in right hand; close ranks forward; turn left or right, face and deposite wands; or have the leaders of the ranks or rows to collect the wands and deposite them before closing ranks.

March to assigned places for apparatus work:

First Division: Flying rings and long horse.

Second “ Long-horse and flying rings.

Third	“	Climbing poles and low hor. bar.

Fourth “	Low hor. bar and climbing poles.

Exchange places: Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division:—Flying Rings, (swinging height).

From a straight arm hang:

1.	Pull up to the dip rest with left arm; down. Same right.

2.	As ex. 1, with both arms simultaneously; down.

3.	As ex. 2, to straight arm rest; raise both legs forward; lower, and down.

4.	As ex. 2, but raise both legs forward before pulling up (legs held forward); 14 turn forward to hang; down.

5.	14 turn backward to straight arm hang; shortswing and pull up to straight arm rest; lower slowly to straight arm hang, with legs raised forward; spread legs wide several times; lower legs to hang; down.

6.	Bend arms % turn forward; swing legs backward and forward 14 turn backward, cut away under rings by spreading legs wide to front stand.

7.	Pull up to straight arm rest; raise both legs forward; V2 turn forward and extend hips to hand balance (place feet around ropes; V2 turn forward, slowly flexing hips and again extending them to straight arm hang; down.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with second division or long horse.

Remakr: See explanation of 4th ex. second division.

First Division.—Long Horse.

(A run preceds all movements.)

1.	Vault to front leaning rest, hands on the neck; straddle* dismount forward.

2.	As ex. 1, but add *4 turn left before clearing the neck, (straddle dismount sideways right, right leg in front, left in rear).

8. .As ex. 1, but add V2 turn left (straddle dismount backward)

4.	As ex. 1, but squatvault dismount forward.

5.	Repeat the above, but instead of the leaning rest, vault to free-rest on the neck etc.

6.	Vault to squatrest in the saddle, hands on the neck; handspring forward.

7.	Vault to ridingseat on the neck; swing legs backward to hand balance; after a short period turn farther forward to rear-cross-stand.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-142-

8.	Vault to handbalance on the neck, arms bent; then turn farther forward as in ex. 7.

9.	An exercise free for all.

Remark : Exeecute all movements left and right. Assistance is necessary when the exercises from 5 to 9 are executed.

Second Division—Long Horse.

(A short run precedes all movements).

1.	Vault to front rest on the left side of the horse, hand on the saddle; down.

2.	As ex. 1, % circle right with the left leg and raise right to meet the left in the side leaning rest on the croup; dismount forward.

3. As ex. 1, and immediately add % circle right with the left leg and down to front side stand; vault to kneestand; dismount forward.

4.	As ex. 1, % circle right with right leg and down; flankvault forward left.

5.	As ex. 1, % circle right with left leg and immediately V2 circle right with right leg to crossrest; screw-dismount forward right.

6. Flankvault swing left to rear rest; V2 circle left with left leg (backward), then V2 circle right with right leg (backward) to front rest, and immediately rearvault right (over neck).

See remark above.

7.	An exercise free for all.

Exchange place with the second division.

Second Division.—Flying Rings, (swinging height).

1.	Circle right with both legs; down.

2.	Circle left with both legs; down.

8.	% turn backward and place the feet in the rings (rest); return in reverse order, swing both legs downward and repeat; down.

4.	Shortswing and % circle backward (extend hips the moment the legs pass between the hands, simultaneously spread arms) and

repeat;. down.

Swinging:

5.	At the front swing raise both legs upward obliquely and V2 turn left; at the next front swing reverse. Repeat several times.

6.	As ex. 5, but V2 turn right and reverse,

7.	At the backward swing flex hips V2 turn backward, the legs well over body); swing forward in this position and extend hips at the end of the front swing). Repeat several times and increase the height of the swing thereby.

8.	An exercise free for all.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same movements. The third division begins on the climbing poles and the fourth division on the low horizontal bar.
-143—

Climbing Poles (two).

1. Jump to straight armhang; spread legs wide sideways; lower legs; down. Repeat.

2. As ex. 1, but raise the legs crosswise (left forward, right backward; lower legs; down. Repeat with opposite position of the legs.

Grasp the poles about the height of the chest:

3.	Lower to deep kneebend right, raise the left leg forward; Position. Same opposite. Repeat several times.

4.	As ex. 3, sideways left and right.

5.	Jump to bent armhang; turn trunk left, raise the legs crosswise (right forward, left backward); turn to the front and lower legs; down. Same opposite. Repeat.

6.	Jump to bent arm hang; raise knees forward; lower knees; down. Repeat.

7.	As ex. 6, extend legs forward alternately several times; lower knees; down.

8.	Jump to straight arm hang, place the left leg in front, the right in rear of left pole, the latter is held firmly between the lower legs; raise knees; extend knees, hips, and bend arms; reverse the order and down. Repeat with legs around right pole.

9.	As ex. 8, bqt bend arms with simultaneously raising knees and when extending hips, move the hands alternately upward; the reverse order in descending.

10.	Climb upward by repeating ex. 9, until the top of the pole is reached; descend in reverse order.

11.	Climb upward as in ex. 10; the lower legs to straight arm hang; descend without the assistance of the legs.

Low Horizontal Bar. (Vaulting height).

From a front side stand.

1.	Vault to front rest with left ordinary and right reversed grasp; down. Repeat.

2.	Vault to momentary free front rest and swing left leg sideways left and down. Grasp as in ex. 1. Repeat.

Ordinary Grasp with both hands:

3. As ex. 2, but swing right leg in front of the left and down. Repeat.

4. As ex. 3, but swing both legs sideways left and down. Repeat.

5.	As ex. 2, then vault to front rest and place left foot on the bar; swing right leg .over the bar and dismount forward. Grasp as in ex. 1.

6.	As in ex. 2, but with ordinary grasp, then V2 circle right with left leg to crossrest; drop backward and knee-swing forward to former position; V2 circle left with right leg to rear seat and dismount forward.

7.	As ex. 6, kneecircle backward, % turn; reverse grasp of left hand, then V2 turn left and V2 circle left with right leg to front rest; underswing to rear side stand.

See remark above.

Digitized by i^.ooQLe
-144-

8.	An exercise free for all.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus, then form a front line for knapsack contest.

Four members form one set. Two act as ponies, the other as riders. The riders after mounting their ponies, grasp right hands and, with the assistance of their ponies, endeavor to pull off one another from the back of the opponent’s pony. This is continued until one of the riders succeeds. If the class is very large two or three sets may start simultaneously. After all have had their trial, repeat the contest by the riders and ponies exchanging positions. Dismiss by taking one step forward and clapp hands.

(To be continued.)

THE VAST IMPORTANCE OF SLEEP.

MISCHIEVOUS are those stories told about the ability of great men to do without sleep. The foolish young man reads that Napoleon slept only three or four hours at night—and he cuts down his hours of sleep. He might better open a vein and lose a quart of blood than lose the sleep which is life itself.

Most of the stories told about great men doing without sleep are mere lies. Some of them are true. For instance, it is undoubtedly true that Napaleon—an inconceivably foolish, reckless man in matters effecting his physical welfare—did deprive himself of sleep in his early years. But he paid for it dearly. In his last battles his power of resistance was so slight that he actually went to sleep during the fighting. Chronic drowsiness weakened his brain, weakened his force of character. The foundation of his final ruin was laid in Russia, when lack of sleep and unwise living generally had taken away his mental elasticity and deprived him of the power to form and carry out resolutions.

It is mainly the young man who needs the lecture on sleep, for the experience of years soon proves to every human being the folly of cheat-ing nature by adding a few hours of drowsy consciousness to the day.

You begin life with a certain amount of vitality, a certain initial velocity, which carries you through life and makes possible certain accomplishments. When you deprive yourself of sleep you squander this original capital. Just as surely as the young spendthrift ruins himself financially when he throws away his money, just so surely you bring irreparable loss upon yourself when you go without sleep.

The food which you eat is digested and transformed into new tissue, into blood, nerve, muscles and brain while you are sleeping.

Look at the men who engage in the atrocious six-day walks and bicycle races. They eat enormously, absorbing in one day five times as much as the ordinary man can possibly swallow. But the end of their task finds them extremely emaciated. Lack of sleep has made it impos-siple for them to transform the food into new tissue.

Any man or woman who has suffered from insomnia will confirm this statement that lack of sleep decreases weight and diminishes vitality more quickly than anything else.

Digitized by L.ooQle