Tol 21.

MIND AND BODY

MAY, 1914.

No 229

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 62 Mason St., Room 300, Milwaukee. Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—The recent meeting of the American Physical Education Association at St Louis April i to 4 was a success in every particular. Most of the papers presented were of a high order, and the debates and discussions following them were not only instructive, but at times characterized by a freedom of expression that showed that many of the men and women attending the convention had convictions which they were not afraid to express.

The practical work presented covered every phase of physical training from that of the young child just entering school to the intricate work of mature man and womanhood. In the discussion of this phase of the convention's work several speakers called attention to the splendid work done by the boys of the high schools not only in St. Louis but also at several previous conventions, which showed that when led by experienced teachers the high school boy is as willing to work, and can show as good results, as one is accustomed to see by high school girls.

The convention was well attended, especially by teachers from the large middle West.

—We recently received a circular announcing the incorporation of The American Posture League, 30 Church street, New York. The announcement says:—

Realizing that correct posture or carriage of the body is of fundamental importance for health and efficiency, a pronounced element of beauty, and an expression of energy and intelligence, the American Posture League has been formed to do educational and scientific work on this subject, and to standardize and improve the conditions affecting it.

Correct standing posture is defined briefly as one in which the different segments of the body—head and neck, chest, and abdomen

Digitized by
— 98 —

—are balanced vertically one upon the other, so that the weight is borne mainly by the bony framework, and a minimum of strain «?r effort is required of the muscles and ligaments. In this posturfe, under normal conditions, the organic functions—respiration, circujti-tion, digestion, etc.—are performed with least mechanical obstruction and with the greatest efficiency.

Following an explanation of how the league is to work we find the following:—

The American Posture League has three honorary boards—a Board of Directors, a Board of Electors, and an Advisory Board. It provides also for Active and Sustaining Memberships.

Active members are those connected with special lines of work or influence related to the purposes of the organization. Active Membership dues are One Dollar ($1.00) a year.

For Sustaining Membership anyone interested in the work and objects of the American Posture League is eligible.

Sustaining Memberships are of six classes:

Life Member....................$500.00	or more

Patron ........................ 250.00	annually

Annual Donor................... ioo.co	annually

Annual Member................... 50.00	annually

Contributing Member............. 25.00	annually

Associate Member................ 10.00	annually

Schools, colleges and physical education departments as such, are eligible for Active Membership if three or more of their members join the League, or an equivalent fee of Three Dollars ($3.00) be paid. Clubs, parents’ organizations and other interested groups are eligible for any of the Sustaining Memberships.

Accompanying this circular was a letter asking the recipient to join the league.

Just having returned from the St. Louis convention of the American Physical Education Association it occurred to us to jot down the names (and dues) of the organizations we are members of which directly and indirectly are trying to do the same thing for which the new league was formed.

In the first group are:—American Physical Education Associa-' tion; Public School Section of this Association; School Hygiene Association ; Athletic Research Society, Playground Association of America. Total dues $14.00.

The second group contains the following:—Philadelphia Physical Training Society; Turngemeinde; Playgrounds Association; School League; Schoolmen’s Club; Social Workers Club. Total dues $30.00.

Then there is a third group embracing the Turnlehrerschaft (Teachers of Gymnastics) and the Alumni of the Indianapolis Normal School. Total dues $3.00.

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 99 —

In the last group might be placed the memberships in congresses of all kinds in subjects related to the objects of the league, with dues ranging from $2.00 to $5.00, also the different American and European journals devoted to physical training, hygiene, play, medicine, etc., etc., carrying with them an expenditure of $22.00, and then come the regular yearly expenditures for books related to our work.

Now, the above lists are not submitted in any spirit of pride to show what we read and spend, for there are hundreds of men and women who do more. They are presented simply to give some backing to the questions:	Do	we	need	more	or	less	societies	?	and, Isn't

it about time to begin to consolidate agencies that all are interested in physical education in its broadest sense, instead of forming new ones? We would welcome an expression of opinion of our readers.

—Two topics touched upon at the last meeting of the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers should be of special interest to our readers. The first is the report of a committee on ventilation, which reads as follows:—

COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATIONS.

A positive minimum supply of outdoor air from an uncontaminated source of 30 cu. ft. per minute per occupant.

A minimum of 15 sq. ft. of floor area per occupant.

A minimum of 18c cu. ft. of space per occupant.

Temperature to be maintained at the breathing line within a range of 65 to 68 degrees Fahr.

Where relative humidity is under control it should be maintained between 40 and 50 per cent. The committee stated that it considered the elimination of dust as of special importance.

As to floor area per occupant in audience halls, a minimum of 41-3 sq. ft. per occupant was advocated, exclusive of aisles and public passageways; also a minimum of 80 cu. ft. of air space per occupant.

Under the heading of “Quantity of Outdoor Air,” it was recommended that a minimum positive supply of outdoor from an uncontaminated source should be provided in the audience hall at all times while the show places are open to the public, and the quantity of this positive supply of outdoor air shall be based upon a minimum requirement of 1,200 cu. ft. of air per occupant per hour where the so-called diffusion method (downward ventilation) is used. Where the so-called displacement method (upward ventilation) is used, a minimum of 1,000 cu. ft. of air per occupant per hour shall be supplied.

Under “Temperature” the recommendations were that the temperature of the air in the audience hall shall at all times, while the show place is open to the public, be maintained throughout at the breathing line (persons being seated) within a range of 62 to 70

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 100 —

degrees Fahr. (except when the outside temperature is sufficiently high not to require the air supply for ventilation to be heated). The temperature, distribution and diffusion of the supplied outdoor air shall be such as to maintain the temperature.requirement without uncomfortable drafts.

The second item is a discussion on two papers, one on “Cooling Two Rooms in a Country Residence” and the other on “A Ward Cooling Plant in a Hospital.”

In the discussion of these papers Dr. Levy of Mt. Sinai Hospital, New York, spoke of the advantages of the treatment of sickness by cold air. He said that beneficial results in this direction have been secured on a large scale in the Philippines. In the treatment of typhoid fever a current of cold air blown over the patient was found better than drugs in reducing the temperature. Dr. Levy said the heating engineers had it in their power to do a work in connection with the reduction of infant mortality through the cooling of the air, that would compare with the boon of pasteurized milk.

Dr. C. E. A. Winslow, chairman of the New York State Ventilation Commission, said that he believed the time would come when there would be cool day and night nurseries located at given points in cities. He cited the papers just presented as evidence of the practicability of cooling the air on a wider scale in homes and hospitals. He also stated that he believed when the sanitarians finally decided on the requirements from a good air standpoint, it will be perfectly simple for the heating engineer to fulfill them.

—Recreation in Boston.—The latest development is the action of the City Council last week, at the request of the Mayor, abolishing the Recreation Division of the Park and Recreation Department, which, of course, abolishes the position of Deputy Commissioner of Recreation, a place which the former administration did not fill largely because of political influences: reducing the salary of the Chairman of the Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners from $7500 to $5000, and further changing the ordinance so that the Mayor may reduce the salary of the remaining Deputy to $3500 from the present figure of $4200. The Chairman of the old Board was turned out of office, and the remaining two members of the old Commission resigned because thev refused to follow the Mayor’s ideas. The discharge of pianists from the municipal gymnasiums caused such a kick from the gymnasium members, especially the women, that the Mayor finally agreed to allow them to continue, providing the gymnasium members paid the bills. The newspapers stated that the physical directors and gymnasium instructors were ordered to shovel snow in the street, but this was not true. These men con-tinued on their jobs, but all their salaries were reduced to $1000, the reductions varying from $500 to $200 each. The men who were

Digitized by Google
— 101 —

ordered to handle pick and shovel were caretakers, watchmen and the like.

The Mayor has stated that he thinks there are too many municipal gymnasiums in Boston now, and he has stopped the construction of all new buildings not already in progress.

Whether his actions mean that he wants to reduce to a minimum and perhaps abolish parts of the recreation service, or whether he is simply reconstructing the system according to his own ideas, or according to the ideas of his advisers, is one of the questions no one seems to be able to answer. It is believed that the Mayor knows little about recreation or physical training, or even of athletics, so far as the value of these things for the good of the people is concerned. His excuse for the changes is economy—that the preceding administration spent so much money and contracted for so many new things that the city would have to spend more money than it could possibly raise by taxation.

—The special attention of our readers is called to the two articles reprinted in this issue, taken from the Atlantic Monthly, entitled “Athletics and Morals” and “Athletics and the School.” They are of the type that should be read not only by the principal of every school but by all teachers and members of boards of education. We still have few people who understand that the highest uses that can be made of competitive physical training work is not to improve health, or to increase co-ordination, but to develop character. Articles that point to these good facts should, therefore, be sent to all people who are in influential school positions.

—Censoring and regulating the motion picture shows in Germany, especially in the Kingdom of Prussia, has had the effect that all films now are classified into “Films for children” and “Films for adults.” Children under 16 years of age are not allowed in places showing films for adults. This rule in connection with stringent rules regulating sanitary and safety conditions for theaters of all characters have, according to well informed authorities decreased the number of motion picture houses in Germany by 1,000 during the last year and a half.

STATE NORMAL SCHOOL, LA CROSSE, WIS.

In the northern basket-ball race of the normal schools of the state, La Crosse State Normal won out. The deciding game was played at Menominee, a neutral floor, on Tuesday, March 17, and the locals won 18 to 17. The championship of the state will be decided next Friday when Oshkosh Normals, the champions of the eastern district, and La Crosse, champions of the northern district, meet.	;	f	J

Digitized by Tooele
— 102 —

The new members of the physical education club have been initiated. Among those coming in are Messrs. T^ckson, Acjams, Wachter, Ochsner, Holthans and Misses Hyde, Snrain, Djorstall and Iliff. A group picture of both classes, as well as snap-shots of the various activities of the club, have been taken for the catalogus of our school. Among these are snaps of fencing, Indian club, dumb-bell, and apparatus drills, also snaps of instruction lessons of children’s classes in free exercises and apparatus work.

Coach Carter is busy with track and baseball, and prospects are bright for winning teams in both branches. The La Crosse Normal will conduct a big high school track meet this spring. A large number of schools have signified their intention of entering this meet. In all probability the inter-normal track meet, which is to be held early in June, will be given to La Crosse.

Among the impersonal forces which mould t^e character of boys at boarding-school athletics takes first rank. At college this dominance, although less complete, still persists. Yet it is not too much to say that, if the current standard of athletic honor were applied to other undergraduate interests, the training of American youth would border on demoralization. Sit among the college ‘rooters’ and listen to the running comments on a game; join a gymnasium group of schoolboy coaches, and you will gauge the influences at work. In many schools and colleges, particularly in the East, there has been of late years intermittent but decided improvement. Certain brutalities of football have been expunged or modified. The personnel of baseball teams has been confined more closely to the body of genuine students. But it can be soberlv stated that underhand, perverted, and dishonest practices are, with honorable exceptions, still part and parcel of undergraduate athletics.

School and college are not mere tinv subdivisions of society. They bear no relation to the natural universe. They are separate worlds, as artificially administered as any laboratory. Outside the barriers of youth we are accustomed to base the laws we make on public opinion; within them the community is compelled to accept an alien code, but its opinion remains its own and the two are in sharp contrast. Nor does public opinion within school or college bear any real relation to opinion in the world at large. The product of an artificial system, it is wholly artificial in itself, based on a curious medley of prejudice and idealism, of romantic honor and highly technical discrimination. Of schools it may be said, with no disrespect *

* Printed by kind permission of the publishers of The Atlantic Monthly,

Arthur Strum, Reporter.

ATHLETICS AND MORALS.

Editorial, February 1914, Atlantic Monthiy.

Digiti
— 103 —

to teachers, that the body of boyish opinion teaches lessons beyond their power to impart. And of colleges a similar statement would not be far from accurate. To shape this opinion, or rather, to use it wisely and with discretion, is, I believe, the larger part of the unsolved problem of education.

Youth is radical, and, at the same time, it is conservative beyond the furthest reach of Toryism. Was there ever a collegian who turned his hat up and his trousers down when custom prescribed a contrary procedure? It is hard to realize the fixity of student opinion once it has run into the mould. A code of behavior may be established in a year; in two it becomes a mark of caste; in four it is immemorial precedent. And, yet, a-sudden shaft of idealism will transfix a school or college and alter opinion over night. The tonic effect of an honest captaincy upon a school team is one of the most exhilarating phenomena of school life.

So much is familiar to those who have kept young by knowing youth. It is in the light of these conditions that I should like to consider the question of athletics and morals in a brief introduction to the more deserving papers by the headmaster of Phillips Academy at Andover, and by Professor Stewart of Idaho.*

It is a rule with few exceptions, that the standard of school and college athletics runs level with the standard of public opinion in school and college. Coaches may introduce dirty tricks; an occasional team may be willing to buv a victory at any price; but, in the last analysis, undergraduate policy and action are determined by social rewards and social penalties. If the feeling once gets abroad that a championship has been too dearly bought, the high price will not be paid a second time.

Not many years ago standards of honor in the classroom were not much higher than those on the athletic field to-day. The problem then was much like the problem now. It was solved, not bv imposing additional regulations upon the students, but by allowing them to regulate themselves. The tone of student honesty conforms to the public opinion set in the last analysis by a small group of the older and abler boys. If you subject that group to the influences of the larger body, you will have a public opinion less strained and more responsive to the healthy reaction of the normal mind. Thanks to social discipline the Honor System has triumphed in the examination room: if athletics was generally under the supervision of student councils, directly responsible to the student body, discussion would take a different turn and honesty would follow fast. Dishonesty never throve on publicity, and never will.

Consider for a moment the condition of the student mind regarding athletics. If a boy moves his golf-ball ever so gently and

* Prof. Stewart's article will appear in the June issue.
— 104 —

thereby improves its lie, detection in the act means social annihilation. But note the delicate graduation of the criminal code. If the same boy habitually plays off-side at hockey, he incurs dislike. But if he trips his opponent at football, or saves a run at baseball by unfair blocking, why, then it is merely a question for the umpire to decide.

The memory of men still young is not taxed to recall the time when technical distinctions of like nicety generally prevailed in college tests. To cheat for a ‘gentleman’s pass’ was one thing; to cheat for honors quite another. In the latter instance you might be defrauding a competitor; in the former you were simply justifying your right to live. To lie to the Dean seemed about as reprehensible as thanking your hostess for a dull party.

Much blame to-day is showered on professional coaches. Statistics in such matters are naturally not available, but I gravely question whether, when a man’s professional career is involved, there is not less danger of dishonest instruction than when a graduate is called upon to pull a team together for a single season. Again, when popular indignation does pursue an infringement of athletic integrity, it commonly concerns itself with the academic status of the players. If a college athlete uses his single talent and plays ball for a living during the summer vacation, then the amateur spirit is troubled as tricking the umpire never troubles it. I do not defend the encroachment of the professional into the amateur field; I deplore it; but I maintain that our American spirit of sport concerns itself more with technicalities than with that single-minded devotion which gives to the word amateur the full significance of the lover who follows sports for sport’s own sake.

I	have spoken of the moral technicalities of athletics. Even persons with a maturer moral code than student honor may well be puzzled by them. In one of his admirable essays on athletics and decency, Dean Briggs gives an amusing instance of a Harvard end-rush, in the pink of condition, who limped through a hard game, allowing his knee to impersonate, so to speak, the injured joint of the other end, whose weakness had been heralded in the enemy’s camp, and,'by his acting, deluded his adversaries into attacking his line at its strongest instead of its weakest point. A stratagem, not dissimilar, won eternal renown for the last of the Horatii some twenty-five hundred years before. But, against the deceitful end, it can now be argued that sport is not war, whether it seems like it or not; and that the kind of strategy he practiced is as far outside the proper domain of football as would be the screech of a tennis- player calculated to district his adversary at a critical moment.

It is not alleged, but I believe it to be felt, by young men and boys, that when a member of a team breaks a rule or otherwise takes an unfair advantage in a game, he does so for the sake of his school

/

'	Digitized by Google
— 105 —

or college and with no personal end in view, thus placing himself on a moral height infinitely above that of a player who cheats for his own advantage. The fallacy involved seems to us too ludicrous to require comment; one must be a boy again to realize the intensity of the tradition that demands victory for the ‘honor' of the school.

In all the questioning regarding athletics, one thing must* never be forgotten, and that is its great, its almost essential importance in education. The progress of civilization means many good things, but it also means that luxuries are sinking into comforts and comforts into necessities. What Miss Repplier says is true: we are losing our nerve. It is a process more widespread, more insidious, than most of us like to believe, and the forces which battle against it are for the most part sporadic and desultory. Among boys to-day athletics is the only systematic training for the sterner life, the only organized ‘moral equivalent of war.' As every good schoolmaster knows, there is no other substitute for the ancient austerities. No other artificial discipline is so efficient, no vent so wholesome, for the turbulent energies of youth. Athletics must be purified, for athletics must stay. The boy must still obey the expectation of his mates and play; he must not misinterpret the perilous command, ‘Play to win.'

We seem very far away from a generous rivalry of noble sport. Forgetting that the world is growing better, we like to hark back to the Golden Age which never was, and recall some heroic incident which shows the possibilities that lie ahead. {Years ago two college teams, intensest of rivals, were playing the decisive game of a baseball series. It was the end of the ninth. One team led by a single run, but theT5lher, with two men out, had two men on bases. Then the batter knocked a Homeric fly to the remotest field. The two runners dashed home. Far to the right, close to the outer fence, a fielder, still famous in song and legend, flew toward the ball. Could he reach it? Not a groan broke the stillness. He is close to it! He is under it! Ye Gods of the Nine Innings, he’s got it! No! He’s down! His cleat has tripped him. Over and over again he rolls. Now he’s up, and there, clutched in his right hand, is the ball.

Did he catch it? Did he hold it? No mortal umpire could ever tell. A roar of protest went up from the benches on the left. With all the dignity of the National League upon him, the umpire waved to the rocking bleachers to be quiet, so that his decision might be heard. But that decision was never given. Sullivan, captain of the team at the bat,—Sullivan, who was a mill-hand before he climbed the heights of Olympus,—understood the amateur spirit. Disregarding the umpire he ran toward the incoming fielder, and, in the agony of prolonged suspense, cried aloud, ‘Honest to God, Chick, did you catch it?’

And Chick, the hero, answered, ‘Honest to God, Sully, I did.’

And so the game was won in the days before coaching was made perfect.

Digitized by Google
— 100 —

ATHLETICS AND THE SCHOOL.

By ALFRED E. STEARNS, Headmaster, Phillips Academy, Andover.

No schoolmaster who is sincerely interested in the vital problems he is called upon to face and solve can ignore the influence exerted on the student body by athletics. The absorbing and abnormal interest aroused by this phase of student activities is generally deplored. Many look upon athletics as a curse to be eliminated if possible from the sphere of student life. Others regard it as a necessary evil to be tolerated or ignored. Still others see in athletics a natural vent for healthy enthusiasm, a counter influence to injurious and dangerous tendencies, a factor to be reckoned with, curbed, and controlled, that its influence may be made uplifting and wholesome.

Those who appreciate most truly the many-sided nature of their responsibilities to the youth committed to their charge are most keenly aware of the great value of athletics in their important work. And yet these same men, just because of their close and intimate contact with their students, outside of the class-room as well as within, see most clearly the lurking dangers which l>eset this phase of student life where enthusiasm and interest so largely centre, and where the appeal to youth of all temperaments and kinds finds a ready response.

In these days of increasing luxury, ease and softness, the influence of wholesome athletics in developing character and toughening the moral fibre must not be ignored. Many a weakling is jnade strong through the lessons he masters on the football field. Here are taught and developed self-control and self-surrender, alertness of mind and body, courage, and the ability to think and act quickly for one’s self. The meaning of democracy in its best sense is here driven home with compelling force. Self-restraint is in the very air, and self-denial for the benefit of all is a daily necessity. And the influence of these lessons is not lost on the student body as a whole. It permeates the very atmosphere of the school-community, restraining the weak, inspiring cleaner standards of life, and lifting to distinctly higher levels the student conception of physical fitness and moral worth. No arguments in defense of these contentions are needed by those schoolmasters who make their chief concern the development of the character of their pupils. Were athletics, and especially football, taken out of the life of our schools we should search long, and probably in vain, for a suitable substitute. And yet those schoolmasters who are so deeply and sincerely devoted to the development of the whole boy—mind, morals, and body—are the ones who most clearly recognize in our athletics to-day a very real danger and a .growing menace which demands immediate and relentless extinction. Professor Briggs of Harvard has set forth clearly in recently published articles this menace as it is found in college baseball. My purpose is to deal with it as it manifests itself in football as played to-day throughout our American schools.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 1Q7 —

For some unexplained reason, football seems to have developed a code of ethics of its own. Under this strange code, practices which in plain language can be called nothing less than base, deceitful, and dishonorable, have been born, and have grown with mushroom-like rapidity. Like the unscrupulous lawyer, the football player has seemingly come to believe that his business is to circumvent the laws of the game, not to obey them. And with all the natural cleverness and resourcefulness of youth he has made wonderful progress. To outwit the umpire; to gain his point and further the success of his team by foul means if necessary; even to accomplish his purpose by disabling an opponent,—these are the daily accompaniments of our football games.

I	am not here referring to those frequent infringements of the playing rules which are constantly penalized and which yet are so often the result of mere thoughtlessness or hotheadedness. These can be explained and generally corrected. But the evils of which I speak are clearly defined. They are planned deliberately, studied carefully, and practiced to just that extent that the laxity of umpires and the difficulty of detection render possible.

These practices are well known to all close followers of the game. They include tripping, momentary holding, unfair use of arms in blocking, and needless roughness of various kinds. And these practices, forbidden by the rules, injurious to wholesome sport and clean sportsmanship, and utterly mean and contemptible in themselves, flourish and are generally encouraged wherever rival school and college elevens meet to test their skill. This is not a theory, but a fact,—a fact recognized by every close student of the game.

For many years I have been closely in touch with school and college athletics. As player, coach, and headmaster my opportunities of observing athletics from the inside have been ample to supply me with first-hand evidence to substantiate my contention. Dozens of cases occur to me as I write, which testify all too strongly to the truth of my assertions, and which reveal clearly the wide extent of the deplorable practices of which I speak. Let me cite two.

Only recently, during the progress of an interclass game, a boy who had entered the school from a large city high school, was several times detected by a watchful umpire, ‘holding.’ His side was promptly penalized, and the culprit was called to the side lines and taken to task for his conduct. He had been guilty of a practice freely indulged in by football players, and consisting of seizing and holding momentarily the ankle of an opposing player, thereby preventing his opponent from exercising the freedom to tackle very definitely allowed him by the rules. The offender expressed his regret at being so clumsy as to invite detection, but appeared utterly oblivious of the plain deceit and rank dishonesty involved in his act. ‘Why/ he exclaimed a bit indignantly, ‘all the college elevens are coached to play

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 108 —

the game that way; college coaches always teach that trick.’ And yet, of this same boy, his former principal had testified, only a few weeks before, that in twenty-nine years of teaching he had never met a finer boy, 'absolutely honest, reliable, and at all times worthy of confidence.’

Not long ago the freshman elevens of two of our leading universities met for their annual contest. On the opposing teams were two boys who had formerly played side by side on their preparatory school eleven. During the contest even impartial observers were aware that concerted efforts were being put forth by one of these teams to disable its opponent, whose reputation had preceded him and who was regarded as 'dangerous.’ No one was more prominent in this 'dirty work’ than the friend of former years. Not long after the contest these two boys met. Battered and bruised, the victim of the unfair assault said to his former team-mate, 'You never played like that at school.’ 'No,’ replied the other in evident embarrassment, 'but we are taught to play that way here.’

In neither of these cases am I disposed to blame unduly the offending boy. Rather is he to be pitied as the victim of conditions and influences under which even strong natures frequently break down and good intentions and purposes are wrecked. It is easy enough for an outsider to criticize and condemn. It is easy enough to argue that a boy who indulges in such reprehensible practices is inherently weak in character and unworthy of all confidence and respect. But only those who as players have felt the goad of an unscrupulous coach with his unlimited authority and power, only those who as representatives of their schools or colleges have been swayed by that mighty force known as school or college 'spirit,’ which, echoing from hundreds of throats, calls for victory,—only those are competent to testify to the overwhelming strength of the forces arrayed against them in their struggle to be honest and play fair. And after all they are only boys. Can we wonder that they so generally yield ? Is it really surprising that they fall into the common practice and do what they are asked to do, what their mates do, and what they know their opponents will do?

The underlying causes of these sordid evils should claim our immediate and our most thoughtful attention. They are easily found. Two of the most conspicuous have already been referred to. In a sense they react on each other. The coach will tell you that he does only what is expected of him. Student sentiment will defend itself on the ground that what is universally practiced must be largely right. From experience I know that student sentiment is susceptible to influence, and that it responds most readily and swiftly to that influence which directs it toward high ideals of honesty and honor and justice.

Not so the coach. Almost without exception the coach is actu-

Digitized by
— 109 —

ated primarily, if not solely, bv the desire to win. And in my experience it makes little difference whether he be an amateur or a professional. His power on the field is unlimited. His influence over the boys he instructs is tremendous. His word is law. To disobey him is to invite ostracism or dismissal from the squad. Often he is vulgar and profane. Sometimes he is brutal. Seldom does he exhibit, on the football field at least, those qualities which are demanded of a gentleman. And yet, with all these deadly influences at his command, he is allowed the utmost liberty to work upon the plastic characters of our youth. With freedom from all wholesome restraint, he is permitted to sow in fertile soil those tares which in their later growth are bound to choke the intellectual, moral, and spiritual growth of our boys and ruin in advance the expected harvest.

With the clear knowledge before us of the double standard of honesty so disgustingly prevalent in our business, professional, and political life to-day, can we longer tolerate conditions which reflect that national disgrace, and at the same time provide unlimited material for its continuance? And are we blind and foolish enough to sit idly by and allow irresponsible coaches, bereft of all high ideals and governed by the lowest motives, to deprive us of that which can be, and ought to be, one of the most helpful and wholesome influences in the life of our schools? And are we not also aware that a clean and high-minded coach may exert on our boys a more uplifting and permanent influence than that perhaps of preachers and lecturers combined ?

Where then does the responsibility for this deplorable state of affairs rest? I answer without hesitation that it rests with the responsible heads of our schools and colleges. They, and they alone, have the power to eliminate this crying evil. So long as athletics occupies a position in our school and college life; so long as it exerts its influence, be that influence good or bad, on the youth committed to our charge,—just so long is it our duty, yes, and our privilege, to see that it is supervised and controlled and made to exercise its influence for the general good. If we ignore this responsibility we are merely confirming the all too prevalent opinion that athletics belongs in a sphere by itself and is entitled to its own individual code of ethics and morals. And in what better way can we develop in the minds of our .youth the conception that in life itself two standards of conduct and honor are permissible? We expel a boy for cheating in his studies; we reprimand or ignore him if he cheats in his games. Can we justify to our consciences or to our boys this arbitrary distinction ? Only by recognizing our full responsibilities to our pupils shall we succeed in eliminating a deadly evil.

It may not be within our ability or power to supervise in person the athletic activities of our boys; but we can appoint and hold to

Digitized by C.ooQle
— no —

strict accountability those who can do this for us. Not even the college can escape this heavy obligation. Some schools have sought for years to ward off these dangers, from their boys. Here and there conscientious and high-minded teachers have unselfishly given their time and thought to the athletic activities of their pupils. But even in these cases their splendid work has been largely nullified, or worse, by the callous indifference of the authorities of those colleges at which these well-meaning boys have later appeared. Many a case has come under my own personal observation where this has been sadly true.

When will our modern educators come to realize that true education cannot limit itself to the mental life alone? Our forefathers who founded our early institutions of learning were influenced by no uncertain motives. The present materialistic conception of life did not hold them in its deadly grasp as it holds so many of our educators and philanthropists to-day. They recognized that the human being, God's highest creation, is not composed of mind alone. To them character was the paramount issue. To them character, combining in just proportion mental and moral strength, was the surest foundation of true citizenship and of those successes upon which alone national life can with safety be built. ‘Above all, it is expected that the Master's attention to the disposition of the Minds and Morals of the youth under his charge will exceed every other care/ So wrote the founder of Phillips Academy one hundred and thirty-five years ago, echoing in his words the ideals of the intelligent and patriotic philanthropists of his time. And later he adds these significant words: ‘Knowledge without goodness is dangerous.’ There speaks the seer with tbe clear vision before him of the true meaning and significance of education, — ‘Knowledge without goodness is dangerous.'

Ts the realization of that plain truth before us as we pursue our all-important work as educators to-day? Frankly, I believe it is not. Satisfied with our striking accomplishments along intellectual, and especially applied scientific lines, we are prone to forget that, after all, the stability and permanency of the nation must eventually rest on the character of the individual citizen. And yet he must be blind indeed who can soberly face the great problems which confront our nation, and seriously consider the underlying weakness which threatens our national life, and yet fail to understand how-vitally the application or rejection of that self-evident truth concerns our welfare. The real menace lies not in the ignorant and uneducated member of society, but in the intelligent and clever crook; not in the illiterate masses, but in the shrewd and unscrupulous leader who can play upon their emotions and mould them to his will. The rank dishonesty so widely prevalent in our business life in recent years has been possible only because of the mental ability and shrewd intelligence of

Digitized by v^ooQle
— Ill —

those who have practiced and furthered it. The growing contempt of law is largely based on the knowledge that applause and rewards are too often bestowed on him who by reason of an acute and well-trained mind is able to circumvent the laws, rather than on him who honorably fights for justice. And even in the sacred halls of our legislative assemblies we know too well that selfish interests and dishonorable practices with startling frequency beget and shape our statutes.

In the face of these unpleasant truths, can the educator fold his hands in intellectual complacency and announce to the world that his business is to train the minds, and only the minds, of the youth committed to his charge? Perhaps this would assure us of an easier life, a life less burdened with harassing cares. But if that is our only aim, if that is the ideal which inspires us in our work, then the sooner we seek other fields and other kinds of labor, the better for our youth, the better for our coming citizens, the better for our country and the world.

‘Knowledge without goodness is dangerous/ In every sphere of life the truth of that clear statement is abundantly evidenced. If we cannot put knowledge into the minds of our coming citizens while fortifying that knowledge with rugged honesty and sound morals, it will be better for our country, aqd better for the world, that we close altogether the doors of our institutions of learning. Our student life to-day is many-sided and complex. But in whatever sphere of that student life character is at stake, there our duty calls us to go; and we shall not be true t'o the great trust reposed in us if we fail to heed and answer that call.

DELIBERATION, REFLECTION, DETERMINATION, PERSEVERANCE AND SELF-CONTROL AS ENDS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING.

By FRANK WEEGE. M. D., Chicago, 111.

“Self-love, self-reference and self-control, alone lead life to sovereign power/’	—Alfred Tennyson.

Investigations in psychology and pedagogy have proved beyond doubt that all that man is mentally he has become through physical activities. The motor expressions that the race has experienced for centuries have left indelible impressions on the field of sub-consciousness. Our instincts are the results of phylogenetic physical experiences, our habits the outcome of ontogenetic motor expressions. The habituation and organization of our neuro-muscular mechanism is

♦Read at the Convention of the American Physical Education Association, St. Louis, Mo., April, 1914.

Digitized by C^ooQie
— 112 —

not merely begun, but continued at the first movement of the child. Professor James doubts even the freedom of the will, and claims that our previous motor expressions determine our choice in any situation. The muscular mechanism affords the means of entrance for any new experience, any addition to our knowledge. And, according to his customary action man is rated. He will be either courageous or timid, firm or fickle, discreet or reckless, persevering or inconsistant.

Now, I do not say that physical education is the penacea in eugenics, that it is the only means of racial development, but I must be shown a better one. Without being called an extremist, I believe that I am justified in demanding for physical education the place in modern education that it should have had when the first attempts in building up a scientific educational system were made, and that place is, second to none. We have arrived at the point of recognition that physical education may not be only a subsidiary in mental training, but that it really is the most scientific method. We are past the stage of meekly suggesting that we might have something good to offer, that physical education might add something towards building up of the race. No longer will scientists, school masters or a public afraid of its pocket-book cry “fad.” To-day we are in the position to de-' mand, and permit me to add that it is our sacred duty to fight for a greater recognition of physical education.

It is not so very long ago that education was looked upon merely as a means of acquiring knowledge. Then we advanced to the consideration that the development of the working powers of the mind,

i.	e<, judgment, reasoning, apperception, were more valuable than the mere storehouse function. Each of the above phases was at different times overemphasized, and to-day we realize that the development of mental faculties plus the retention of some of the material offered, are essentials of education. The object of this paper is to show that physical education, the organization of the neuro-muscular mechanism, is an important factor in accomplishing the above.

Deliberation, reflection and determination, perseverance and self-control are tools of mentality, and necessary in making the best use of knowledge. Physical education must be evaluated according to the power it has to keep these tools in good condition.

It is plain that physical education to be as important a factor as above stated must take in consideration the human being as a whole, as a unit. We cannot consider man merely a physical, an intellectual, or a moral being. Nor can we say that we are trying to make him either only healthy, only strong, only mentally alert or only moral. Physical education is more than a mere therapeutic measure. Just as knowledge alone, unless it is fortified by correct habits, will not insure a high moral tone, and will not fit the individual perfectly into his environment, neither are well developed muscles, a sound heart, a perfect gait and an ideal carriage, if they are the chief aim in physical

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 113 —

education, sufficient to serve as a means for mental development. Posture alone, no matter how high a head is carried will not elevate the standard of citizenship. Very often an imposing appearance is a big bluff to cover up shortcomings, and many of our notorious criminals have demonstrated that they were physically quite superior to the officers of the law. I do not wish to be misunderstood on this point. I am fully cognizant of the extreme importance of bodily development pure and simple. I know that good posture is a great advancement towards the attainment of symmetrical development, physical, mental and moral, but I wish to emphasize that physical education has a greater purpose than this. The hygienic or health producing effect is only part of its aim; physical training must educate and form good habits. Deliberation, perseverance and kindred powers must be so well developed that they will not only be demonstrated when artificially stimulated, but habitually used. Physical training must furnish situations in the gymnasium that put the tools of mind to a trial, and the pupil by mastering these situations sharpens his mind and becomes more deliberate, more persevering and gains more self-control.

How can we supply situations in our gymnasiums that will answer these purposes? Here is a class ready to work on the parallel bars. The preliminary exercises have been executed. The jump off is polished up, and due attention is paid to good form. Also, definite movements as purely corrective work have been done, for a lesson without special emphasis on posture is not complete. But after all one can tell by the expression in the boy’s eyes that he is looking for more, that he thinks that there should be a chance for something else. He is just aching to try his mettle at a few stunts where he can show what he is made of. And there is an opportunity where the teacher’s ingenuity to give the boy something that he can make use of in any station of life comes in. There is no need of neck-breaking stunts. Let him swing high enough to get his feet over the bars to cut the scissors. A boy trying to learn an exercise like this is a psychologic study. He weights his strength arid compares his chances to gain the result, and determination and courage are gaining with the mastery of each new movement. Every little addition to his stock of conquered obstacles gives him more confidence and whets his appetite for more. If in his eagerness he. neglects the necessary precautions of proper balance or other necessities, a bump will quickly remind him that he has neglected to make use of all the tools necessary for rapid progress. He quicklv learns that a little deliberation is a great 'help in mastering his body.

The mere addition to his muscular power might just as easily have been acquired on the floor, or even on a soft mattress where there is no danger of carrying away a blue mark as the result of lack of deliberation and reflection, but he would then lack just these quali-

Digitized by CjOOQle
—114 —

ties when trying to jump from a street car onto a slippery pavement. All apparatus can be made use of in a similar manner. Some apparatus demands more emphasis on one, some on another of those qualities. As long as Gymnastics has been practiced this important psychologic feature has been understood and been made one of its aims. Friedrich Ludwig Jahn was not satisfied with merely developing able-bodied people. We have expressions, names of exercises that he used which show that he had a deeper purpose in his work. We still 'have his “Mutsprung,” “Sturmlaufen” and others.

A class on the Vaulting Buck and Vaulting Horse very strikingly demonstrates the powerful influence that exercises of this kind have on determination and courage, deliberation and reflection. If you have your material carefully planned and the exercises graded to the ability of the individual, you will have the most gratifying results. John Brown’s phylogenetic and ontogenetic experiences appeared to prove to him that danger lurks in that innocent looking contrivance, the buck, or the horse. James Smith, however, knows that there is a barrel of fun stored up in that apparatus. John Brown is filled with deliberation and reflection; you must coax him along and lead him on very carefully, step by step, by exercises that will instill in him confidence in his ability, and slowly arouse his determination and courage. And after he has once experienced the satisfaction of executing a vault that before seemed to him a dangerous undertaking, it takes but little to arouse his perseverance to try and try again, until he will be promoted to Jimmie Smith’s class. James Smith, on the other hand is apt to have his deliberation suppressed by his ambition. With him perseverance and courage are likely to turn into "recklessness. Determination has such firm possession of him that self-control is often lacking. He must be lead on to execute every exercise with perfect form. To him the fallacy of entirely disregarding danger is pointed out, and the ideal of perfect control of body and mind under all circumstances is held up.

This phase of self-control, where through successive stimulation of courage and determination, deliberation and reflection are pushed into the foreground are of highest importance to the future citizen. There are many situations in life where the individual is driven to a point where he imagines that it is a case of do or die, and where he is liable to injure himself or others. There are cases when the individual is pushed to the breaking point of determination, when he is willing to risk his life for a triviality, or where through teasing and daring he is ready to risk his reputation as an orderly citizen to perform some deed that may involve him in serious trouble with the law. This deliberation, reflection and self-control that is awakened and nursed by a lesson at buck-jumping will show splendid results in life. Some of our strong men, weight lifters and stone breakers, scorn the use of apparatus, but the agile, quick thinking, physically,

Digitized by GjOOQle
— 115 —

less bulky, but mentally, more alert, -'-mnasts always demonstrate their superiority.

Let me give another example of developed self-control in the gymnasiums. It, with the others, has the advantage of being a picture of real life and not a mere writing-desk creation.

Joe Mustard is normally a well behaved young man, but during an interesting game he reaches such a pitch of excitement that he easily loses control of his temper. An accidental bump by an opponent, an unfavorable decision of an umpire will make him disregard his environment entirely. He is ready to strike his best friend or use the worst language towards officials, and one must constantly be on guard to prevent him from inciting a miniature riot. Slowly this boy is taught to control himself. His first advance is when he voluntarily will ask to be withdrawn from a game when he sees that the excitement will get the best of him. Later he manages to hold his own, when the umpire calls a strike on what he thought should be a ball, and the fight for self-control is plainly reflected in his facial expression. And, finally he gets so far that after the inning he will smilingly inquire of the umpire if that third strike wasn't slightly misjudged. The umpire's personal feeling should not play a part in any game, but I have deliberately given close decisions against this boy in order to give him a chance to strengthen his self-control.

It is impossible to enumerate in one paper all the phases of gym-.nastic work that have influence in the training of these mental powers. All the work has more or less bearing on them, all the apparatus work has its influence on it, some more pronounced on one quality, some on another.

I	have a report from the Armstrong school in Chicago that not only substantiates my assertions but that even gives the amount, the degree of development in numbers. At this school an efficiency record of all the pupils is kept. This record tabulates mechanical, physical, intellectual, environmental and moral efficiencies, and each efficiency, such as attentiveness, receptivity, perseverance is marked. Difficult as it seems to arrive at a correct standard for grading, any deficiency is readily recognized. Special efforts are made to improve by gymnastics the efficiencies that have received a low mark. The results are astonishing even to teachers of physical education. Not only was the pre-eminent importance of gymnasium work demonstrated, but it was found that some intellectual efficiencies could be improved only by physical training. I wish to emphasize that this encouraging report came to me unsolicited. It is a summary of practical results of ideas put in practice by Miss Reynolds, a big-hearted, broad-minded principal.

Another report I would like to call your attention to is that of Dr. Hartwell of Boston on the good results of physical education in training the mentally abnormal. I do not believe that the training

Digitized by v^-ooQle
— 116 —

of the abnormal should be a part of the general educational system. In fact I think it is unfair to the normal child, and cheating the race, when we spent about 50 times more money and energy on the abnormal then on the normal; but the beneficial influence of physical education in Dr. Hartwell’s report is interesting to note.

The field and track events, games, are an ideal educational means. Here very often a victory hinges on the training which the above powers have received. Innumerable are the opportunities that afford excellent training. A boy facing the opponents’ pitcher at a critical stage of the game must have all these qualities at his command ; when awaiting the report of the starter’s pistol he often shows his superiority by demonstrating that he has these qualities at his command; or in a jump he gives proof of his being master of his inner self.

One reason why educators have been so slow in realizing the importance of physical education as a means of training mental qualities, is that the good results are not immediately observed. In other branches of education results are more easily recognized. When the child comes home and tells father that two and two are four, father thinks there are results, but when the boy conies home from his gymnasium-lesson, tired and hungry, then father must know something about gymnasium work to realize its benefits. And when little Jimmie tries to show his little sister some of the stunts he learned in the gymnasium, then mother should see that the noise and inability to sit still are the craving of the child’s instincts for demonstration. Innumerable are the cases where the development of self-control can be traced to the gymnasium. The boy who forms the habit to act in unison with his class during tactics, who learns that the success of the whole class depends on the individual’s ability to subordinate himself to the whole class will be better able to fit himself into his environment when he becomes a man. The courage and self-control gained during a game will stand him well in the many trials of life. Many are the cases where habitual perseverance and determination, reflection and self-control in the gymnasium show excellent results in later life. It may not be amiss to relate a few instances that prove this. During the Iroquois fire in Chicago, where about 600 people lost their lives a young man, a member of a Chicago Turnverein, through his reflection and self-control saved a number of people. He was jammed in with the crowd with apparently no means of escape and doomed to a terrible death. Overhead, seemingly out of reach to serve as an avenue of escape was a window. The crowd saw no way of reaching it, but this young man showed what pull-up and stemm-support are good for. The training he had received in the gymnasium enabled 'him to get to the window, and he worked heroically helping others out, until fire and smoke made further efforts impose sible.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 117 —

Another case which happened in this city some years ago. Five young women were caught in a burning building. Ladders were raised to a window which offered their only way of escape. Unfortunately the ladders did not quite reach to the window, and it required a good deal of courage and skill in climbing to reach them: Three of these young women unhesitatingly made the attempt ar succeeded, the other two wavered until too late. Later inquiry revealed the fact that the three girls saved had been attending turning school and had not considered the climb a difficult one.

Another case was related bv a gymnasium teacher of a Chicago high school. Here one of his pupils acted the heroine by leading a number of young women over a shaky fire-escape to safety. The teacher remarked that this young woman had not been an especially brilliant performer on the apparatus, but her deliberation and self-control enabled her to calm the crowd, and to organize a safe escape. It may not always be a case of life and death, but fractured bones, torn and dirty dresses or a case of nerve-wrecking fear and excitement are often the penalty for a lack of deliberation and self-control. It is not necessary that one should boast of records and championships. The habitual, normal use of his mental powers are the strong assets of the gymnasium habitue. In fact, the record-breakers and champions as a rule have the greatest difficulty to fit themselves into their environment.

The power acquired in the gymnasium to habitually reflect and deliberate will bear its best fruit in later life. Habits once formed will continue to direct the activities of the being, they are suppressed only with difficulty. It is doubtful if any new habits are formed after maturity, probably not even after a much earlier period. The ability to reflect and deliberate, and a certain amount of courage and perseverance is preserved for the individual by protoplasmic inertia and all we can do is to nurse and develop these powers. It is doubtful if we are able to create habits entirely new to the race, it seems rather that they are expressions of different degrees of inherited powers. But no matter what the psychologic process may be, the one fact remains that the tendencies are there, and that it is our duty to see that they are deeply plowed into the brain substance by frequent repetitions. And the continued demand in the gymnasium for their manifestation is what makes gymnasium work so important an element in education.

Considering that the mind grows by motor expressions, it certainly is of great value to the child to have abundant opportunities for motor experiences. The child makes the most comprehensive use of these opportunities, because they are the natural sequences of its desires and cravings for action. Sugar-coated doctrines to arouse interest are not needed, it is healthy normal growth. Furthermore, the results are two-fold. First, we form good habits, and then we

Digitized by
— 118 —

add to the muscular power pure and simple, improve good carriage, and posture, and innervate the organs of the body to greater activities. The school may furnish situations in the class room that demand expressions of deliberation and perseverance, but the physical being cannot receive the same consideration as in the gymnasium.

Economic conditions, the undecided, often narrow, nagging attitude of school principals, the crowding out of the masses by interscholastic competition are handicaps, that we should consider our sacred duty to combat. I would suggest that we go on record in demanding for all pupils a most comprehensive course of physical education : a course that will emphasize all the phases, therapeutic, recreative, educational; a course that will not sacrifice the masses to offer greater opportunities to a few selected individuals; a course that will be compulsory, so that no pupil can graduate from an elementary or a hi<di school without meeting definite requirements in physical education. To add momentum to this demand we must first educate our educators to the indispensible need of physical education, and we must make clear to them what physical education embodies. Secondly, we must demand more time for our work, and, lastly, we must throw all squabbles about systems to the scrap-heap. You all know that no successful teacher in physical education follows any one system exclusively, but adopts the best features of all. In fact, I do not see how we can still endeavor to discriminate between systems. To me arguments on these lines are indications of a misapprehension of our ideals. We are not interested in building up a Swedish soldier nor in developing a German acrobat, our aim is the raising of good American citizens-, and for this purpose the best of any system is none too good.

—Tobacco Smoking and Mental Efficiency.—A test made by Bush on each of fifteen men, in several different psychic fields, showed that tobacco smoking produces a 10.5 per cent, decrease in mental efficiency. The greatest actual loss was in the field of im-agery, 22 per cent. The three greatest losses were in the fields of imagery, perception and association. The greatest loss, in these experiments, occurred with cigarettes. Nicotine was found in the distillates of all tobaccos tested. Nicotine was not found in the smoke of any tobacco, except that of cigarettes, and then only in traces. Pyridine was found in the smoke of all tobaccos tested. Pyridine seemed to be the principal toxic factor in the smoke.—Neiv York Medical Journal.

IMPORTANT NOTICE.

The office of “Mind and Body” has been moved to 62 Mason street, room 300.

Digitized by L.ooQle
— 119 —

“BASKET BALL DRILL.

Arranged by J. CERMAK for a Gymnastic Exhibition at Medill High School,

Chicago.

(concluded)

PART II.

Outer:

a)	Lunge forward left, lean forward, arms obliquely downward. ball height of knees (fig. ioa) 1-2!

b)	Y* turn to the right, to lunging position forward right, raise arms upward and downward, bend trunk forward and place the ball on the floor (fig. 1ia) 3-4!

c)	Raise the trunk, ball over the right shoulder and stride backward right (fig. 12a) 5-6!

d)	Lunge forward right again, bend forward and place the ball on the floor (like fig. 11a) 7-8!

e)	Vi turn to the left, to a position like in exercise a (fig. ioa) 9-ic!

f)	Stride backward left, the ball at the left side of the body height of the hip (fig. 13a) 11-12!

g)	Lunge forward left, ball behind the head 13-14!

h)	Bounce the ball on the floor, close heels and lower arms. Next 16 counts change the exercise with the “inners,” beginning lunging left.

After receiving the ball again, repeat the above opposite, bounce the ball to the inners, and repeat second exercise op-

:	posite.	64	counts.

Inners:

a)	Lunge forwad right, raise right arm obliquely upward and left arm backward (fig. 10b) 1-2!

b)	Lunge forward left outward,

arms sideward, palms forward (fig. 1 ib) 3-4!

c)	Bend arms (like in running) and beginning with the right foot run 4 quick, short steps in Vi circle to the right, c-6! (One step on each Y\ note.)

d)	2 double quick steps and one stamp in place, facing to the right and extend arms sideward ; on the last count lower arms (fig. 12b) 7-8!

e)	f) g) h) (from 9 to 16) repeat exercise abed, but begin lunging with the left, and run in a Y* circle to the left, beginning with • the left foot. On the last count catch the bounced ball. (fig. 13b).

Next 16 counts change the exercise with the “outers” lunging right, and on 15th count bounce the ball back to them.

Repeat the above exercise from a) to h) opposite, change; exercise opposite and return the ball; 64 counts.

Digitized by
— 120 —

B.

Outer:

a)	Lunge forward left, lean for- a ward, arms obliquely downward (like exercise a) A. 1-2!

b)	L2 turn to the right, to lunging position right, swing arms b upward and downward, ball on the floor (like exercise b)

A. 3-4:	c

c)	Move the left arm backward

(as if to make an attempt to stop the guard from attacking the ball.) Eyes follow the d movement of the left arm (fig. 14a) 5-6!	e

d)	Replace the left hand on the ball 7-8!

e)	On the right foot Vi turn to the right (back towards the audience) to a stride position sideward left, arms forward, holding the ball in front of the body 9-10!

f)	Bend the trunk to the right forward, left, and raise again (“ducking” under the guard’s extended arm) and return to a position e) 11-12!

g)	On the right foot Y turn to the left to a lunging position forward left, ball behind the head 13-14!

*0 Close heels, and bounce the ball to the “outers,” 15-16! Change the exercise, beginning lunging left.

Inners:

Lunge forward right, and raise right arm forward obliquely upward, left arm backward, 1-2!

Lunge forward outward with the left, arms sideward (palms turned forward) 3-4!

Place left foot backward inward, raise right arm obliquely upward, left arm backward (fig. 14b) 5-6!

Lunge forward outward left again, arms sideways 7-8! f g h raise arms sideways (palms forward) and run in a circle to the right around the “outers” (4 short, quick steps to one measure). Run 3 measures, 12 steps. On the last measure finish with 3 stamps in the original place and catch the bounced ball.

Change the exercise with the “outers,” lunging right.

After bouncing the ball back to the inners, repeat the above opposite, change again, and repeat second exercise opposite. 64 counts.

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 121

On receiving the ball again, repeat the above exercise opposite, change again, and repeat second exercise opposite. 64 counts.

Finish with exercise c part i.

part in.

A.

Outer:

a)	Straddle with a hop, bend a) knees and place the ball on the floor, between the knees (fig. 15a) 1-2!

1>) Straighten the knees, close b) heels with, a hop, raise arms upward (ball above the head)

3-4!

c)	Lunge backward outward left, c) lower arms sideways, left hand holding the ball, right palm downward (fig. 16a) 5-6!

d)	Lunge forward left inward, d) at same time grasping the ball again above the head with both hands — bend forward, bounce the ball lightly on the floor and replacing both, hands on the ball, press it down to the floor (fig. 17a) 7-8!

(On these 2 counts, 7-8! the instructor whistles twice in time with the music “Referee's ball.")

e)	Jerk the ball away from the e) “inner," and make a quick J/> turn on the right foot to the

Inners:

Lunge forward right and raise arms sideways, palms turned forward (fig. 15b) 1-2!

Close heels with right, and by an inward circle raise arms upward, palms forward, 3-4!

Lunge sideward left and by an outward circle, raise arms sideways, palms forward (fig. 16b) 5-6!

Lunge forward inward right, and place the right hand on the ball, left arm backward (fig. 17b) 7-8!

(Remark: Here the instructor whistles twice on the last 2 counts, “Referee's ball.")

f g h raise arms sideways, palms turned forward and run in a circle to the right, around

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 122 —

right, to a stride position sideward left (back toward the audience.) After finishing the turn bounce (9!) the ball on the floor and catch it again (on 10!) 9-10!

f)	Another Yi turn to the right, on the right foot, to a stride position sideward left, (facing the audience) bounce and catch the ball again, 11-12!

g)	Ya turn to the left, to a lunging position forward left, and raise the ball behind the head 13-14!

h)	Bounce the ball to the “inner/’ close heels and lower arms.

(After this change the exercise with the inner, and after receiving the ball, repeat the above opposite, and again repeat the exercise of the “in-ners” opposite. 64 counts.

the “outer.” In the last measure reach the original place, finish the run with three stamps and catch the bounced ball. Change the exercise with the “outer,” and after returning the ball, repeat the above exercise opposite. Then catch the ball again and repeat the exercise with the ball opposite and bounce it back. 64 counts.

Outer:

a)	Lunge left forward outward, a) bounce the ball and catch it again (fig. 18a) 1-2!

b)	Make a complete turn (on the b) left foot) to the right, to a lunging position forward outward right, bounce the ball again and catch it (fig. 19a)

3-4?

Inners:

Lunge right forward outward, raise arms sideways, palms forward (fig. i8b)'i-2! Complete turn on the right foot to the left, to a lunging position left forward outward and raise arms upward (fig. 19b). 3-4!

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 123 —

c)	Change position of knees, c) Change position of the knees

raise the ball over the left	and swing arms in a circle

shoulder 5! bend trunk for-	outward twice, to a position

ward, extending arms down-	upward again 5-6!

ward and placing the ball on d) Change position of knees the floor 6!	again, (to a lunging position

d)	Raise the trunk, at the same	left) and swing arms twice in

time raising arms upward,	a circle inward to a positiort

holding the ball above the	upward again 7-8!

head lower left arm sideward, e) f g Lower left arm forward (left hand holding the ball) 7!	and right arm backward, and

and right arm sideward, with	run 12 short steps in a circle

palm turned toward the op-	to the left (following the ball)

ponent (fig. 20a) 8!	until he reaches his original

e)	f) Turn to the left on the left	place. (Fig. 20b). (By an

foot, while the right foot	oversight, the figure shows

makes 4 steps in a circle	arms in a position sideways—

to the left. One step on two	but should be left arm for-

J4 notes (“Spinning” away	ward (palm downward) as if

from the guard.)	trying to reach the ball, right

g)	When the right foot reaches	arm backward) 9-10! 11-12!

its original position, resume	13-14!

the lunging position left by h) Three stamps, catch the bending left knee and raise	bounced ball and change the

the ball behind the head 13-14!	exercise with the inner.

h)	Bounce the ball on the floor	After bouncing the ball back

and close heels.	to them, repeat the above op-

Change the exercise with the	posite, catch the ball again and

inner, then repeat the above	repeat the exercise with the

exercise opposite, and repeat	ball opposite. 64 counts.

the exercise of the inners opposite. 64 counts.

Finish with the exercise c of part i.

Although the “drill” seems to be rather complicated, it can be learned easily by resorting to the following method:	Have	all	the

participants in a front line and teach them both exercises (with and

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— 124 —

without the ball) both directions, for they all have to go through both exercises right and left. When they have mastered all the movements, place them in positions facing each other and command: “exercise with the ball to the left” (or right) and to the others: “exercise without the ball to the right” (or left.) Thus the drill will be mastered without any difficulty. By having the participants in a front line, the teacher can be seen by all when he is showing the different movements and he again, seeing every one, can detect and correct every wrong position.

DEVELOPMENT AND PROGRESSION OF APPARATUS

EXERCISES.

By EMIL RATH, Indianapolis.

PARALLEL BAR.

A.	Changing straddle-seat forward.

1.	From cross-support, center of bar, swing forward into straddle seat in front of hands; straighten hips with placing hands on hips, regrasp and rear vault dismount.

2.	Repeat i, but fall forw. with hips extended, grasp forw. and front vault dismount.

3.	As 2, but falling and front vault dismount combined.

4.	As 3, but swing to support-lying 'frontways from falling forw.

5.	As 4, but instead of support-lying swing to support and swing forw. to rear vault.

6.	As 5, but to straddle-seat and continue changing seats.*

Change backward. (Seat in rear of hands.)

7.	Grasp backw. and rear vault dismount.

8.	As 7, and swing backw.; jump to stand.

9.	As 8, swing to straddle-seat rear of hands.

B.	Dip Fore- and Back-Swing.

1.	In the support, bend and straighten arms.

2.	Moderate swinging in the bent arm support at end of bar and jump-off backw. with straightening arms.

3.	As 2, with straddling legs at end of back-swing.

4.	From straddle-seat rear of hands, intermediate dip-swing to same seat.

5.	As 4, from and to support-lying frontways.

6.	As 5, but to riding-, outer oblique, and cross-seat.

7.	As 4, to straddle-seat in front of hands (continuous).

8.	From support-lying frontways, to seats rear of hands.

9.	Same from seats front of hands. (Straddle, riding, oblique or cross.)

Develop straightening of arms at end of swings.

* Der Vorturner, Moeller.

Digitized by Google
— 125 —

C.	Development of kipp.

Swing in upper arm hang ((correct swinging and jumping to upper arm hang-swinging must precede this) and turnover backward to kipp position (inverted balance-hang), and :

1.	Straighten hips forcibly to hang (swing).

2.	As i, to straddle-seat front of hands (kipp to).

3.	As 1, to riding-seat.

4.	As 1, to outer cross (or oblique) seat.

5.	As 1, to support.

And dismount with front and rear vault.

Progression: (Falling to upper arm hangs—to kipp position.)

1.	From straddle-seat front of hands and kipp.

2. From end of fore-swing in support and kipp.

3. From end of back-swing in support and kipp.

D.	Squat- and straddle-vault from side lying-support to inner stand

and return; over both bars to stand. (Bar sideways.)

a)	Squat- and straddle-vault from support-lying.

1.	Support-lying; squat to stand on bar.

2.	Support-lying; squat to center.

3.	As 2, then squat backward to stand on bar.

4.	As 2, then squat backward to stand.

5.	As 4, to support-lying.

6.	As 5, then squat-vault over both bars.

b)	Proceed in the same manner with the straddle-vault.

c)	Alternations of a and b.

d)	a and b from a running start with support on far bar, near bar, one bar higher than the other.

Running start: Squat-, straddle- and other vaults over both bars,, support on a) far, b) near bar.

E.	Siving-stem. (Rise.)

No preparatory exercises. Dip-swing forward and backward and slow pull-stem must be known.

1.	Swing-stem backward. Arms must not be bent.

Progression in sequences with exercises following the main exercise.

a)	To seats in rear of hands; to support-lying frontways.

b)	Several swing-stems (rises) from falling to upper arm; hang-swinging.

c)	Kipp, or several swing-stems. (Drop backward.)

d)	Drop-kipp (inverted balance-hang).

e)	Scissors.

f)	Elbow lever.

g)	Forward dip-swing and add.

h)	To shoulder- and hand-stand.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 126 —

2.	Swing-stem forward. Hips straight. Arms must not be bent.

Progression in sequences with exercises following the main exercise.

a)	To seats in front of hands; to support-lying rearways.

b)	Several swing-stems (rises) from falling to upper arm hang-swinging.

c)	To roll forward (Bent, straight roll.)

d)	Shoulder-, upper arm- and hand-stand.

e)	Scissors in back-swing; with forward rise:

f)	To balance-support.

g)	To arm-kipp and drop-kipp, etc.

H. i. Development of rear vault, end of bar, to support.

Bar shoulder or breast high.

a)	Jump to momentary support with >4 turn and double legswing forward (with both legs).

b)	Rear vault mount right to oblique seat in front of left hand.

c)	To straddle-seat.

d)	To support.

2.	Double rear vault.

a)	As i d, but to riding seat front of right hand.

b)	To outer oblique seat in front of right hand.

c)	To stand.

Progression: Higher bar. Combinations before fhe above exercises.

a)	From the support-swing to i) straddle-seat; support; 2) riding-seat, oblique seat, stand.

b)	As a, preceded by leg-swing under the same and opposite hand; rear vault; straddle-vault.

c)	Kipp from the jump; fall-kipp, also glide-kipp. Then 1 and 2.

HORIZONTAL BAR.

A.	Hip-szvingup backward to support frontways. (Shoulder high.)

1.	Under grip, one leg raised backward, arms bent; several spring boards under bar. Run to edge of board and swing up to support with bent knees and hips.

2.	Repeat. Remove one board at a time.

3.	Repeat from stride-stand,, or one leg raised backward. No boards.

4.	Repeat with extended knees.

5.	As 4, to correct support.

6.	Mixed and upper grip.

After leg-raising to bar has been learned, in the hang (still) • Slow hip-pullup to support frontways.

B.	The under-swing and the long-swing *

* Der Vorturner.

Digitized by U-ooQle
— 127 —

a)	Horizontal bar height of eyes.

1.	Under-swing to stand from stand frontways.

2.	The same over rope; raise rope gradually.

b)	Raise bar to head, above head, and finally reach high.

1.	Under-swing to stand from stand under bar with upper grip; pass through inverted balance-hang.

2.	Over gradually raised rope.

c)	Under-swing to stand on jump high bar from stand under bar. Pass through the inverted balance-hang, knees at bar, from a forceful jump.

d)	Under-swing to stand from support frontways on bar head, reach and jump high.

1.	Pass through inverted balance-hang with straight arms, shins or knees near bar, and straighten hips forcibly.

2.	May also be practiced over rope.

3.	To hang-swing on jump high bar.

e)	Long-swing (swing-start) on jump high bar.

Proceed as under c, but swing instead of jump-off. Observe arm straightening with the under-swing; there is a tendency to keep arms bent.

C.	Knee-swingup (leg outside of hands) from hand-knee-hang.

1.	With placing arm on bar to assist.

2.	After several swings in the (hand-) knee-hang between hands (3-2-1 swings for children).

3.	Same outside of hands.

D.	Knee-swingup and knee-swingoif. (Bar shoulder and head high.)

Preparatory:

1.	Leg-raising to inverted balance-hang frontways; knee at bar.

2.	As 1, then free leg-swing left (right) under bar; close legs and lower.

3.	As 2; after free leg-swing, knee-swingup (use extended pendant leg vigorously); knee-swingoff to free leg-hold; close legs; lower.

4.	All in one swing—knee-swingup ;-swingoff.

Continued on jump high bar.

5.	From jump to bent arm-hang and immediately.

6.	From straight hang, bend arms, and then immediately. From swing requires new preparatory exercises for swinging.

E.	Knee-, Hip-, Crotch- and Straddle-swingup from side seat and

support by dropping to inverted balante-hang. ,

1.	Outer knee-swingup forward (beside hand) dropping from support. First from thigh seat.

2.	Hip-swingup rearways, dronoing from side-seat.

3.	Crotch-swingup forward, dropping from seat on one thigh.

4.	Double knee-swingup forward from side-seat.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 128 —

5-	Straddle knee-swingup forward from seat (hands between legs).

6.	Same, keeping knees extended. (Straddle-swingup.) Seat-circle backward and forward. Straddle-circle forward and backward. Crotch-circle forward and backward.

F.	Knee-, crotch-, and hip-sivingnp from swinging.

Preparatory exercises:

1.	Raise legs to inverted balance-hang frontways at end of forward swing; lower with backward swing.

2.	As i to bent knee and hip inverted hang (inverted squat-hang) (Anhocken zum Anristen) ; back- and foreswing and straighten Ixxly to long swing.

3.	As 1, and leg-swing under bar to (hand) knee-hang.

4.	As 3, but immediately outer knee-swingup forward. Knee-swingoff to stand.

5.	As 3, but squat forward instead of leg-swing to (hand) knee-hang.

6.	As 5, but immediately inner knee-swingup forward.

7.	As 6, but inner crotch-swingup.

8.	Swinging (bent, then straight hang) and hip-swingup. (Half giant.)

9.	From support: a) Body-swingoff 1) to stand; 2) to hangswinging. (Care!)

b)	Body-swingoff backward. (Abhurten) to swinging hang and hip-swingup (half giant); also hip-swingup to free sup_ port later. (Care!)

G.	Vaults from support. Chest to head high and later higher.

1.	Flank, front, rear vault.

2.	Same with l/\ and ]/i turns.

3.	Squat-, straddle-vault. Squat-straddle-vault. (Wolf-vault).

4.	Hand-stand and: front vault; hand-spring turnover; squat-vault; straddle-vault.

Preceded by kipp (glide-, drop-, swing-kipp).

H.	Knee-, crotch-, rear hip-swingup and straddlc-smngup from

1.	Bent hip inverted hang (inverted balance-hang) obtained from the hang.

2.	A stand frontways. (Low bar.)

3.	A stand rearways. (Low bar.)

4.	Turn-swinging, mixed grip, and

a)	Half-turn backward about arm of hand grasping under grip.

b)	Half-turn forward about arm of hand grasping upper grip.

(Same turns as in turn-kipp.)

Preparatory: Cross arms at end of backswing.

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 129 —

Turns may occur a) during the swing, or b) at end of back-swing.

I.	Kipp. (Progression and sequences.)

1.	From swinging with upper, mixed, under, and reverse under grip. Combine as under 2.

With changing grip in free support.

2.	From the hang with upper, mixed, and under grip: with changing grip in the inverted balance-hang.

Combine with vaults, hip-circles backward and forward, knee- and crotch-circles.

3.	From the jump and immediately kipp.

4.	With falling backward from the support; outer thigh-seat left and leg-swing backward; same between hands and squat; support rearways and squat backward; straddle-seat and straddle backward.

5.	Turn-kipp. Turn is either in center of backswing or at end of backswing. Turn a) backward about under grip hand;

b)	forward about upper grip hand, a) may lead to both upper or mixed grip; b) may lead to both under or mixed grip.

Progression by adding exercises.

J. Swing-stem. (Rise) Bar jump high.	;

Starting with :	a)	Jump	to	hang	and immediate swing.

b)	Swing from still hang.

c)	Underswing from support.

1.	Momentary swing-stem (rise) repeatedly.

2.	Finally swing-stem, followed by hip-circle backward.

No. 1 must be constantly practiced to acquire the swing-stem. as there are no preparatory exercises on the horizontal bar.

Progression: To support; several times. To support with different grips. To support with changing grip of one and both hands in the momentary support. To support with leg-swing beside hand, vaults, hand-stand, etc.

K.	Variations of swing-stems. Turn-swing-stem.

1.	Mixed grip. Upper grip hand crosses over grasping upper grip at end of backswing and turn and stem (rise) with forward swing. (Under grin hand may grasp under arm).

2.	Upper grip. One hand crosses over other and regrasps upper grip at end of backward swing, etc. Same from support.

3.	Swing upper grip and turn at end of forward swing; release and regrasp upper or mixed grip a) one after other; b) simultaneously.

Progression: 1 and 2 from free hip-circle (or giant swing).

3	or 1 to vaults over bar; to hand-stand.

Digitized by UjOOQle
— 130 —

PLAYGROUNDS AND GYMNASIUMS.

By ALEXANDER A. HARWlCK, Supervisor Physical Education, Reading, Pa.

California proposes to find out definitely the recreational need of her citizens. A recreational inquiry committee has been appointed, consisting of one member from each branch of the legislature and one representative each from the schools, playgrounds, juvenile courts, public and private charities and the police, “to study, investigate and report with recommendations upon recreation for both young and old in California, including recreation in rural communities as well as small and large towns and cities.” Their report will be awaited with interest by all those who are studying and working along this line.

THE FASCINATION OF BASEBALL.

What is it that draws to the diamond every fine afternoon a hundred thousand or more Americans? What is the secret of the permanent popularity of our national game? Ping-pong arises and vanishes. Archery flourishes and disappears. Roller skating rages and dies out. But baseball, year after year, retains its unchallenged sway over that most capricious of kingdoms, the American public. Even professionalism cannot kill it. What other game would stand the management of close corporations, the selling and trading of players, the immense sums of money involved, the pressure of popular feeling, and yet remain so clean and incorruptible? Imagine what football would become under similar conditions, since not even the protection of the amateur spirit and the shelter of college walls can keep it free from reproach.

The openness of baseball saves it from suspicion and the grounds for suspicion. Every player is at all times visible, and the game has

10,000	umpires. Each man has his own reputation to sustain as well as that of the team, and he knows that every error and misplav is scored up against him at the end of the year and mars his future fortunes. If it was suspected that there was collusion and pre-arrangement popular interest would fall off at once. For the reason why a game has a fascination far above a mere spectacle is because of the uncertainty of its outcome. A military parade, an exhibition of gymnastics or a pageant may be beautiful, but it is lackine in the excitement of the unpredictable. Each actor in such a performance knows what he is going to do and we know that he knows what he is going to do, consequently our interest is limited to the way he does it. It is not so exciting as flipping a penny into the air. Nobody in all the world knows which side of the coin is going to be uppermost, so we can enjoy on a small scale the sensations of a Columbus or a Galileo, the delight of penetrating into the unknown for ourselves. In read-

Digitized by e.ooQle
— 131 —

ing a novel or seeing a play our enthusiasm is chilled by the realization that its apparent spontaneity is all an illusion; that, though we do not know how it is coming out, somebody does, and we are jealous of his superior knowledge.

With life it is different. Its plot is unwritten, or at least unreadable to human eyes. And a game is interesting in proportion as it resembles life in its uncertainty. The fatalist may say both of life and its mimic:

“The Ball no question makes of Ayes and Noes,

But Right or Left as strikes the Player goes.”

But what though the ball is as inexorably controlled by physical law as the planet, its motions are mysterious to us, and therefore fascinating. It does not matter how shallow a well is so long &s we cannot see to the bottom of it.

But it is not enough that the game should be undeterminable by us; we must have a personal interest in it. We must have something at stake. This desire to share in the risks and hopes of one of the contending parties leads to the staking of monev. But fortunately the ereat majority of the spectators do not resort to such a base expedient to enhance their interest. The true enthusiast stakes something more valuable than any monetary wager, his feelings and convictions. He throws his heart into the balance. The connection between the professional clubs and the cities whose names they bear is so slight that local patriotism has little power, but a certain partisanship is imperative to the full enjoyment of the game. He that does not choose a side from the moment the first ball is pitched and follow every play thereafter with wish for its success or failure is unworthy of a seat on the bleachers. Let us not smile when we hear the summer girl ask her escort, as they take their places, “Which side are we on today?” This is one of those sensible remarks which men call foolish simply because they are too frank for masculine taste.

The reason why baseball areals to men more than to women is probably because they can identify themselves more fully with the players through their own experience. To appreciate .painting one must have had a brush in his hand. Most of the men who are watching the game know how it feels to gain a base or to have the ball leave the bat without quiver or tingle. They can therefore endow the players with their own former emotions, although to the poor professionals it is doubtless merely a part of the day's work. Some psychologists have claimed that the'innervation of the muscles which accompanies the emotional observation of such activity does in fact give exercise to the spectator, so that he is practically taking part in the game. But we are somewhat skeptical of the value of such vicarious exercise, and hold to the belief that the best baseball is played on vacant lots in cities and towns, where the only spectators are the seven or eight who are waiting their turn at the bat.

Digitized by O-ooQle
— 132 —

The ball is the oldest of human playthings. Froebel had historical justification for making it the first of his kindergarten toys. In the childhood of the race we see it depicted on the monuments of Egypt and Chaldea, and it has never been out of the hands of any generation since. But in baseball the game seems to have acquired a perfected and permanent form like chess, and requires only minoi modifications from time to time as some-one of its factors becomes unduly developed. At present the pitching seems to have got the better of the batting, and something may have to be done to give a chance for more scoring, as a few years ago when the power of the pitcher was curtailed. The value of the game depends upon the main-tainance of the equal balance of the teams as they alternately act on the offensive and defensive. These eighteen alternations keep up the uncertainty till the last, and the interest is continuous and cumulative, in this way surpassing cricket, which has two interminable innings. Then, too, it is superior to other field sports in the variety of its activities and in the combination of teamwork and individual initiative.

The rotation of players prevents undue specialization. Every man must be able to catch, throw, bat and run. At any moment the responsibility for winning a game may devolve upon any member. This is in accordance with the democratic principle of American life and government. We may have failed to develop a national art or piusic or literature, but we have developed a national game and we are proud of it.—Independent.

NET HAND BALL.

By EODOWE H. ABEKEN, General Director of Athletics, Public Recreation Commission, St. I»uis, Mo.

Net Hand Ball is a game well suited for the uses of the Playground. During the Summer of 1913, it was introduced on the Public Playgrounds of St. Louis primarily as an Inter-Playground competitive game for girls ranging from 12 to 14 years of age. It proved very popular from the start, as it is a simpler game than tennis and still holds the fascination of the later game as it can be played in almost any yard on account of the comparatively small area required. It even proved popular with the boys and it was not long before provisions had to be made to accommodate the demand of the boys, and it soon rivaled base-ball in popularity.

It was not long after the introduction of this game on the Playground that it was no unusual sight to see a miniature Net Hand Ball Tournament in progress in many a back yard, alley and other places, with an old “clothes line” used in place of a net and the game conducted on the self-government plan in strict accordance with the rules of the game.

Digitized by
— 133 —

RULES OF THE GAME.

Net Hand Ball is very similar to Tennis played by hand in place of a racquet and played under practically the same rules as Hand Ball.

The Coart. The court is laid out on level ground, as shown in the diagram. S ‘L’ and S “L” are the “side lines;” S ‘S” and L ‘L” the “back linesA ‘B’ and A “B” the “service lines.” The upper edge of the net, stretched across its entire width at mid-length of the court, is four feet above the ground.

The Ball. A Tennis or any other elastic ball of similar dimensions may be used.

The Players. Five players constitute a team; but by mutual consent of the contending teams the dimensions of the court may be changed to accommodate any number of players.

The Service. The “server” is the slaver, who begins the play. Each player of a team takes a turn at serving in announced order. When serving, the player must stand within the service-line, back-line and side-lines. The server must bounce the ball once before striking it with the hand in a manner to drop it, unless intercepted, somewhere within the opponents court-lines.

The Scoring. A ball, when correctly played may be returned by the other team in “fair territory” i. e. over the net within the opposite court-lines, any time before its second rebound. A failure by the team, opposite to the serving side, to do this, counts one “point” for the serving team; a failure to do this by the serving team counts one "out” against them. Only the serving team scores.

The Game. The right to choose either the first serve or a side of the court is decided by the toss of a coin. After each game the teams change sides, the loser taking the first service. During a game all players must be within the lines of their part of the court. If a player fails in two trials to properly serve the ball, the next player in

Digitized by Google
— 134 —

order of the same side takes the service and one “out” is noted against the serving team. An “out” is also recorded if a player serves out of order. When two “outs” are made, the opposing team has the right of service. A ball striking the net, but nevertheless passing over it, is considered a fair ball. A ball, though passing out of bounds or which has been illegally served, if properly returned is considered fair and remains in play. The failure, by the team not serving, of an attempt to return the ball, whether going out of bounds or not, counts one “point” for the serving side; the same failure by the serving team counts one “out” against it.

The ball must be struck with the open palm of one hand only. Serving or returning in any other manner counts an “out” if the error is made by the serving team—counts a “point” if committed by the opposing team.

The team, which first scores 21 points, wins the game. Three games constitute a “set” or a match.

YANKEE DOODLE--A PLAYGROUND DANCE.

By JOHN E. SOHMIDLIN, Elizabeth, N. J.





(t



vU



yJ

Formation: a front circle, divided into couples (see diagram). The couples have their inner hands joined, shoulder high. The outer hands are placed at the waist. The children sing “Yankee Doodle” during the dance. Any two-step music may also be	used.	The

players, of which there may be any number, should	try	to	keep a

perfect circle.

COUNTS.

1.	Fifteen glides to the left, and then close heels..........	16

2.	Fifteen glides to the right, and then close heels........... 16

3.	Three steps forward, beginning with the left foot, close heels

and clap hands 4. The same backward beginning right 4. . .,	8

4.	Face partner, join both hands arms extended sideward and four step-hops in a circle on place, once around, turning right, with slight bending sideward on each step-hop; begin

the step-hop with the foot toward center of circle. ......... 8

5	. Retaining the same position of arms as during step-hop, three glides sideward toward the center and then.close heels 4; the same back to place 4; repeat inward and outward 8.. .	16

Repeat from the beginning................................... 64

Digitized by \jOOQlC
— 135 —

SHOULD THE RECREATION FACILITIES OFFERED BY A CITY BE PARTLY

SELF-SUPPORTING ?*

Answered in the Experience of Boston, Mass., by EVERETT B. MERO.

Whether cities in general, and Boston in particular, do too much for their people in recreation and other forms of service is important, be the answer “yes” or “no.” A municipal economist might ask how far all the people should be taxed for the pleasure or the welfare of some of the people. And a sociologist might show that when a city provides opportunities for the people to wisely use their leisure hours, the intended results are beneficial to the entire community, to those who pay most, as well as to those who personally benefit most, and the latter are entitled to all they receive.

The people of Boston do not want any deterioration of the recreation service that this city has built up during the past quarter century. Changes, readjustments and correction of bad conditions are in order, but no sound reason exists for eliminating the reasonable service which modern conditions justify for all progressive American cities from parks, playgrounds, athletic fields, indoor gymnasiums, public baths, band concerts, indoor concerts, evening centers, school-houses and other public buildings, purposeful holiday observances, etc. And let me tie to that statement the companion idea that it is at least as important how these forms of public service are operated, as that they are maintained at all.

This city has been spending $1,500,000 a year for all recreation and parks—more than any other city in America in proportion to population. Boston ought to be the leading city of the country in this field, but it is not. Just spending money has not been sufficient, and merely cutting down appropriations will not serve. Boston lacks something that some other cities possess, and it is not expressed in dollars and cents.

The first item in a program of recreation reform to keep down the cost and at the same time maintain efficient service is a practical, concise study of the needs of the city. What means already exist to meet the needs? How these existing means may be operated to cover more ground? And then an intelligent application of the developed plan. This common sense idea has never been applied in Boston. It is overdue. It is one reason for excessive expenditures. Any one who has not given it attention will be surprised at the wasted effort, duplicated service, half-utilized opportunities that an intelligent study will reveal.

* In view of the fact that Boston at present is in the midst of a period of reconstruction, this article by Mr. Mero should be of more than ordinary interest to the readers of Mind and Body, especially as it touches upon a new thought in municipal recreation, i. e., should this be free or self-supporting.—Ed.

Digitized by
— 136 —

The second item is, let recreation pay its way. “Let the public do its own welfare work,” as a Globe editorial expressed it not long ago. Boston has been spending more than $20,000 a year for indoor and outdoor music for public entertainment and enlightenment. All outgo, no income. The city of Portland conducts organ recitals to which admission is charged. Last year the concerts were self-supporting and netted $2300.

The city of London rents chairs at outdoor band concerts—welcome service to the public, more than self-supporting. The New York Zoo charges admission on certain days. Boston lets concessions for pleasure boat service, with results open to question. Chicago has operated its own boats in parks, with improved standards of service and a profit. Hartford operated for five years a park refectory formerly granted as a concession. Better service, with accommodation of the people the objective rather than money making, nevertheless it paid all expenses and a profit besides. Boston has a refectory in Franklin Park which is a continued expense to the city and produces no revenue. Chicago parks make and sell at near cost high-grade ice cream and milk, and it pays in pleasure and health as well as in dollars.

No city in the world has a system of public gymnasiums equal to Boston. The cost has been perhaps $100,oco a year—all outgo, no revenue. Why not a small charge to gymnasium users? Let the city provide the plant and competent supervision, but arrange a plan by which the users of the plant pay something for advantages received ?

The Metropolitan bathhouses charge their users, and the plan works well, all in all. Why city bathhouses so nearly free as now? Some free days, or distribution of free tickets perhaps, to meet con- . • ditions, but why let it all be on a charity basis?

With some changes in laws, ordinances or rules, other features might be undertaken with revenue-producing attachments, such as high-grade educational moving pictures, both indoors and outdoors, which would not compete with the commercial “movies.” Let them show, among other more general and world-wide subjects, the work of various city departments.

No, the city of Boston does, not do too much in providing recreation opportunities for its people, but it needs, as.it has long needed, a complete reorganization of that service and an up-to-date point of view, which will include the two points emphasized.

On sending 35 cents (stamps) we will mail a copy of BALLIN*S “PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE SCHOOLROOM”; catalog price, $1.00. This stock, slightly damaged, is limited.

Address “Mind and Body,” 62 Mason St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 137 —

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE.

By D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

—A “Danger-Scale” for Athletics•—Inasmuch as the fundamental aim of athletics is, or at any rate ought to be, health, it is not unreasonable to ask in what degree each type of game or sport approaches this ideal of contributing to a sound body and the enjoyment of its physical resources. It will probably be found difficult to compare the health-giving virtues of tennis and cricket, of skating and basket-ball, of rowing and tug-of-war. The factors of enjoyment, of the special participation of definite organs of the body, of opportunity, season, environment, etc., are too complicated to permit a very critical analysis. But Dr. Bartsch of Heidelberg has wisely suggested that it may become feasible to correlate the dangers attending the various athletic sports and to furnish a sort of “scale”— Gefahrenskala, as he naively terms it—whereby one could determine the relative likelihood of damage or injury to be encountered in the prominent athletic pastimes. This is not unlike the condition in industrial occupations, for many of which the incidence of accident and harm is known. If the statistics of accidents in athletics, and the personal harm known to result all too often, could be gathered in some way for purposes of public contrast, the physician and physical culture teacher could advise more intelligently regarding the desirability of participation. We believe, however, that the greatest' advantage of this suggestion would lie in the reforms which the facts thus elicited would inevitably promote. A few well-attested data regarding the undoubted dangers of crew races, of football and some other much-vaunted sports might serve to direct public attention to the abuses of athletics. The promoters are then usually quick to respond.—Current Comment, Journ. A. M. A.

—Iron in Cells of Central Nervous System.—A careful investigation was made by Dr. D. J. McCarthy of ganglion cells in the brain of a patient who suffered from an extensive hemorrhagic encephalitis in the cortex. The iron reaction was not demonstrated in the cortical ganglion cells in this case, l>ut was obtained in a striking cell reaction in the plasma-like cells of the pia-arachnoid and in the elastic coats of the smaller cortical arteries.—From article in Am. Journ. of Med. Sciences, Philadelphia.

—The Causes of Fatigue.—Dr. William Stirling, professor of physiology in the University of Manchester, recently delivered an address on “Health, Fatigue and Renose.” Most of the breakdowns in man's life were due to himself, because of ignorance, recklessness, or both. Overwork, without sufficient repair of an organ, whether brain or eye, digestive organs or muscles was the primary cause of

Digitized by

Google
— 138 —

fatigue. All the organs of the body could not run at full speed at the same time. Mental fatigue greatly impaired bodily activity, and physical or muscular fatigue had a distinct effect on brain activity. The observations of Dr. Leonard Hill on the effects of a liberal supply of oxygen in fatigue were most important. Somnolence in churches and chapels seemed on occasion to occur at sermon-time, but it was not in all cases to be attributed to the sermon. The explanation lay rather in the badly ventilated atmosphere, and in the fact that Sunday, though the first day of the week, was to most church-goers the close of the week. The fatigue problem was all important to both the teacher and the child at school. It was well known that certain school subjects produced fatigue sooner than others. The following represented the order of subjects arranged according to difficulty: mathematics (standard), ioo; Latin, 91; Greek, 90; gymnastics, 90; history and geography, 85; French and German, 82; natural history, 80, and drawing and religion, each 77. The energy of our nerve-cells and our muscles exhibited rhythmic variations in the course of the day. In each case they were most energetic between 10 and 11 in the morning, and these periods should be selected for the lesson that was apt to cause most brain fatigue. As to the causes of fatigue, the view that the chemical substances in the muscle or in the blood were used up more rapidly than they were replaced was substantially true. That muscular fatigue was partly a chemical process was shown by the fact that if an extract were made from the muscles of an animal that had been fatigued and injected into the muscles of a fresh animal, the muscles of the fresh animal showed phenomena which could not be distinguished from those of fatigue. If the blood-vessels of a fatigued muscle were washed with oxygenated water containing a little common salt—a liquid which had no nutritive properties the waste-products were removed. Nothing that could yield energy to the muscles was added, yet the muscle retained its activity.

—Athletic Sports- in Relation to Health.—It is one of the numerous paradoxical facts encountered in every-day life that the problems of athletics rarely receive the attention of those who are most concerned with health, the supposed ultimate purpose of bodily exercise. The management of athletics is rarely found in the hands of a physician, by whose scientific guidance one might reasonably expect that the various sports would be enabled to effect the best of which they are capable and would be freed from the unconcealed dangers attending some of the present athletic practices. Athletics have for the most part to-day become the province of the people at large. It is the uneducated trainer rather than the physician, the hero-worshipper rather than the hygienist, who directs and inspires the performance of the physical exercises which ought to be undertaken pri-
— 139 —

marily in the interests of a sound body and a sound mind. Games have developed into contests in which victory is sought at any human price. The “manager” is the foremost adviser, and the physician is called on as a last resource to mend the damage that may have been done in an ill-advised struggle for athletic supremacy. Such are the exhibitions that the populace wants. Until there is a wide-spread education of the people as to the proper underlying purpose of bodily exercise and the dangers that beset the indiscriminate and uncontrolled pursuit of athletics by every one whom the inclination stirs, it is a seemingly hopeless task to preach the gospel of reform.

Meanwhile the physician and the physiologist must content themselves with acquiring the data on the basis of which sound judgment in relation to the problems of exercise and sane advice in the pursuit of athletic sports may be obtained. Only the beginnings have been made in this field of study. If football or rowing or bicycling have their dangers, what are they? Wherein do the respective advantages of the various types of physical exercise lie and what are their unquestioned efifects on the organism ? What are the physiologic prerequisites for participation in each form of gymnastic performance? These and a host of similar questions demand ready answers in respect to which there should be common accord, precisely as there now is a growing appreciation of the physical standard of health demanded in the various industrial occupations. In the latter case the subject is investigated because it has become a matter of dollars and cents. When health and happiness are the sole end sought the same question has been neglected.

Among the internal organs the heart and kidneys have hitherto received most consideration in connection with the physiology of exercise. There is an idea abroad that each form of athletics has its own peculiar types of pathologic defects. Just as one hears of the “tobacco heart,” there are the alleged “bicycle heart,” “football kidney,” etc. It has been the merit of Albu in Berlin to point out that the pathogenesis of the abnormal conditions familiarly associated with the pursuit of athletics mav be interpreted from a common point of view. In other words, all undue muscular exertion, whether carried out by one group of muscles or another, in one type of movement or a different one, affects certain groups of organs and metabolism in general in entirely comparable ways. The physiologic or pathologic result may vary in degree but not in kind.

To what degree the distinctly pathologic manifestations of improper athletics may arise depends on a variety of circumstances, some of which can readily be indicated. Age is a factor of significance. During the period of adolescence when the organs have not reached their full development the responses are pronounced, and the person is unusually sensitive to muscular excesses. “Constitution” expresses in a somewhat vague way another factor which de-

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 140 —

termines the fitness of a person for athletics. There must be adequate development, suitable nutrition and a competent nervous system, the latter element often being undervalued. Obviously, appropriate training furnishes another safeguard against the dangers of athletic overdoing. Much of what is called “training” in this country is, however, a combination of unscientific and sometimes irrational dietetics with psychic quackery. Last but not least, the degree of exertion required is a feature of determining significance when the ill effects of athletic sports are to be avoided. The distinction between doing and overdoing needs to be learned and appreciated more than any other single factor in the rational pursuit of bodily exercise for health and enjoyment rather than for personal superiority and group supremacy.—Abstracted from Editorial of Journal Am. Med. Assoc., April 4th, 1914.

—The Hygiene of Athletic Sports—Rowing.—In considering the discredit into which certain aspects of physical exercise are liable to be thrown by some of the abuses of modern athletics, we have pointed out the desirability and timeliness of ascertaining with some scientific precision and freedom from “professional” bias precisely what are the physiologic effects of the current practices. The extent of the available information in respect to the specific influence of bodily exercise on the human mechanism is surprisingly limited. The time has arrived when criteria of competitive overdoing in contrast with wholesome athletic training should be proposed and discussed in a frank and fearless way for the future benefit of American youth.

Training has been defined as the systematic preparation of the body for the exhibition of the utmost efficiency of its muscular system by means of regular physical exercise and a carefully regulated mode of life. It aims at permitting the individual to undergo vigorous bodily exertion with relative ease in comparison with the untrained individual and, above all, without jeopardy to health. This involves numerous elements of change in the organism, the precise nature of which is all too little known and has received scant attention from worthy investigators in the past. A recent study carried out at Wurzburg on the members of one of the academic boat-clubs, under the supervision of the hygienist K. B. Lehmann, furnishes some facts of immediate interest in relation to the efifect of the training of candidates for competitive rowing crews. Lehrbecher, A.: Beobach-tungen beim Rudertraining, Arch. f. Hyg., 1913, lxxxi, 1. The facts were gathered by competent observers and bear on a number of physiologic functions. The period of training comprised in the case under discussion covered about two and a half months during the collegiate year. Almost every candidate manifested a decline in body-weight, the loss averaging about 4.5 kg. (9 pounds), a figure somewhat less than is currently expected to follow rigorous training

Digitized by LaOOQle
— 141 —

like that called for by university crew practices. There is an early drop in weight, not improbably due to a loss of superfluous fat in the beginner. The organism then adjusts itself to the need.of a more liberal energy intake resulting in more stationary weight. During the final periods in which the concluding races and strenuous conir petitive trials occur there is, as a rule, a further decline in weight. That the weight-curve is not without direct prognostic import is suggested by the Wurzburg observer. He has noted that if it shows a sudden and steep decline the condition known among athletes as overtraining is to be feared. This may follow overexertion. It is attended with uncertain efficiency and nervous symptoms that can be averted only by a carefully instituted rest, diversion, and conservation of the physical resources of the individual.

A surprising feature in LeKrbecher’s measurements is the failure to demonstrate a considerable increase in the size of the muscles of various regions in the course of a two months’ training. Familiar observation and the physiologic teaching of the present day lead one to expect pronounced development in the arm, for example, when this is subjected to vigorous exercise. Several factors may have entered into the absence of evidence of increased proportions in the musculature of these German oarsmen. Hypertrophy of the muscles may have been compensated for in the total volume of the limbs and other parts measured by the disappearance of surplus fat. Furthermore, it should be borne in mind that rowing does not confine its demands to limited groups of muscles, which is the case in many other sports such as boxing or fencing, but calls into play almost every larger area of skeletal musculature. In skilful rowing the arms are drawn into participation far less than the inexpert layman is wont to believe; on the other hand, the abdominal muscles and the legs are called on to assume a not inconsiderable share of the special effort. The contours of the rectus abdominis as well as of the muscles of the back gradually come into striking relief. At the outset of training the volumes of the extremities may show considerable increase after each individual series of efforts; later these immediate changes due to circulatory responses become less marked or even negligible as the muscles are accustomed to the work which they perform. The physiology of this adaptation; often attended by a disappearance of muscular pains which accompany the beginner’s efforts, awaits an explanation.

All students of the physiology of exercise are agreed that the acceleration of the pulse attending a definite exertion grows less and less with training. The difference between the well-trained and the beginner in this respect was strikingly brought out in the Wurzburg experiments. The demands made on the circulatory mechanism are indicated by the fact that in covering 2 kilometers in a four-oared racing-shell the pulse-rate was raised to from 15c to 180 beats per

Digitized by
—142 —

minute in every individual. It is precisely in this feature of the extreme task of the circulatory apparatus that the greatest dangers lie and that the least definite information as to the mechanism of compensation in relation to training is at present forthcoming. The respiratory distress so common with beginners after extreme effort is likewise greatly lessened as the result of training. The thorax seems to become more mobile to meet the needs of pulmonary ventilation, and the respiratory responses grow more efficient. The temporary rise in body temperature invariably attending muscular activity amounted, on the average, to 0.42 C. (0.75 F.) during a row over the usual course. This is somewhat less than one finds in other comparable athletic sports, doubtless owing to the fact that the mode of clothing in crew practice permits a more ready compensatory loss of heat from the body. Albuminuria aifd attendant pathologic kidney phenomena, so frequently mentioned as characteristic of undue physical exertion, were not observed in the present experiences.

The subtle influence on the nervous system of training for a decisive competitive event is recognized by those immediately concerned as an element liable to determine success or failure, but is rarely considered from the broader point of view of its effect on the welfare of the person concerned. Most candidates show more or less “nervousness” and increased irritability toward the end of a period of training, and this mental condition is well known to the experts. There may be periods of tendency to insomnia, and diarrheas of nervous origin have been observed. It has been counted as favorable in the case of college athletes that their scholastic duties act to divert attention in some measure from the “nerve-straining” features of athletic training. The same factor of distraction haps been held to account for the often unexpected success of crews composed of business men who devote only their leisure moments to the somewhat monotonous rigor of training and practice.

The conclusions of a physiologic observer who has followed a season of training with unbiased expert eyes are worthy of close consideration. The possible dangers of competitive rowing are not concealed by him. Even with careful supervision, overexertion of the heart, nervous exhaustion and other untoward svmptoms may arise. Such features can be averted by intelligent guidance; in other words, by training under the eye of a competent medical adviser rather than a muscular giant or an athletic trickster. Speaking from a personal experience, Le'hrbecher frankly says that the choicest reward of the great effort of six weeks' preparation is not the absolute gain in muscular strength or bodily mastery, but rather a unique feeling of control over an organism that is equal to the greatest exertions. The feeling of having participated in a regatta is not greatly unlike the sense of satisfaction which attends the successful completion of an examination. The one demonstrates the mastery of the body, the

Digitized by
—143 —

other that of the mind. We are warned, however, of an additional duty rarely fulfilled by the present system of athletic competitions. It is the necessity of providing for some acceptable continuance of activity so that the derived gain of a season’s training will not change to loss and the well-trained person revert to the other extreme of unhygienic living.—The Journal A. M. A., Editorial, April nth, 1914.

ATHLETIC NOTES.

By E. HAUG, DeWitt Clinton High School, 59th St. and 10th Ave., New York City.

The question whether amateur foot runners will ever be allowed by the A. A. U. to compete against professionals in especially arranged and sanctioned matches is one that will not down. Permission for such matches is often granted in sports not controlled by the

A.	A. U., such as bicycling, golf and tennis, the most recent being the interesting tennis matches between George F. Covey and Jay Gould.

James E. Sullivan always has been decidedly against the sanctioning of competition between amateur and “pro” runners.

Nevertheless, some other great athletic authorities are opposed to him on this particular point, notably Gustavus L. Kirby, erstwhile president of the amateur body in this country.

A great boom in athletics in France followed the defeat of Bouchard, the French professional champion distancer, by the great amateur, Bouin, in 1912, in an especially sanctioned match in which the gate receipts went to charity.

Mr. Jay Gould won the open championship of the world in court tennis from George F. Covey, the English professional champion, on the courts of the Philadelphia Racquet Club. The final score was seven sets to one, in favor of Mr. Gould.

The match was to be decided by the best seven in thirteen sets. The score for the entire match, ending with Mr. Gould’s decisive victory, was 6-0, 6-1, 6-4, 6-3, 6-2. 6-3, 5-6, 6-1.

Mr. Covey came from England nearly a month ago to meet Mr. Gould, and both have been in constant practice for the meeting for the last three weeks. The interest in the outcome has been great, both in America and abroad, though the complicated features of court tennis have made it a game less generallv popular than lawn tennis, or “ordinary tennis,” as it is generally called.

John Johnson, holder of the record for the 412-mile all-Alaska sweepstakes dog team race, became the winner of the 1914 classic when he drove his eighteen Siberian wolves into Nome at three minutes after 6 o’clock, having covered the 412 miles over the snow trail from Nome to Candle and return in 81 hours and 3 minutes.

Digitized by
— 144 —

The annual Army-Navy football contests will hereafter be played alternately at New York and Washington. An agreement to this effect, stipulating that this year's game shall be played at the American League Baseball Park at Washington, was reached by representatives of the athletic associations of Military and Naval academies. The arrangement is conditioned, however, upon the willingness of the Washington Chamber of Commerce to erect stands in the baseball park to accommodate 40,000 persons.

A revised list of alumni and undergraduates entitled to wear the Yale “Y” shows that the aggregate total of varsity letter winners is 1,200. Of this number 1,053 are graduates, 92 are non-graduates and the remaining 55 are undergraduates. The various groups of professions followed by these men are as follows:—Law, 197; manufacturing, 169; finance, 166; mercantile, 105 ; engineering, 69; medicine, 60; education, 54; agriculture, 35; transportation, 27; ministry, 20; art, 14; government, 13; literature, 13; science, 2; undergraduates, 55; unspecified, 53; deceased, 148. Total, 1,200.

Of this number 1,016 men won their “Y” in one branch of athletics, 169 men in two branches, 14 in three branches, and one man, W. W. Heffelfinger, "91, won the “Y” in the four branches as follows:—Football, ’88, ’89, ’90, ’91; crew, ’91; baseball, ’89, and track, ’90 and ’91.____________________________________________________

NORMAL COLLEGE

OF THE

NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

The oldest American institution for the education of teachers of physical training*.

Incorporated under the laws of Indiana, and recognized as an accredited training school by the State Board of Education.

Offers high school graduates the following courses:

Two-year course, leading to the title of Graduate In Gymnastics.

Four-year course, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in Gymnastics* Graduate course, leading to the degree of Master of Science in Gymnastics. One-year elementary course, open under certain restrictions to members of the

N. A. Gymnastic Union.

Physical Training Teachers* Bureau in connection. Last year’s graduates all placed.

SUMMER SESSION, July 6 to August 1, 1914.

Write for illustrated catalogue and summer session bulletin.

NORMAL COLLEGE, N. A. G. U.,

415—419 E. Michigan St., Indianapolis, Ind.

PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS’ BUREAU

OF THE

NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

415—419 <E. Sftidngcin gtt,, jPubirmctpoH*, $nb.

COMPETENT TEACHERS OF PHYSICAL TRAINING RECOMMENDED TO SCHOOL OFFICBR8 -AND ASSOCIATIONS FREE OT CHARGE.

Registration is restricted to graduates of the Normal School of Gymnastics, and of the Normal College, of the North American Gymnastic Union.

Digitized by ^.000 le