		
Vol. 8.	JUNE, igoi.	No. 88

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

HERMANN O. DREISEL, Chicago Normal School, Chicago, 111.

DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760 — 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., 468 E. Water Street, Milwaukee, Wis.

DR. ALICE BERTHA FOSTER’S REPORT ON THE NATIONAL FESTIVAL OF THE N. A. TURNERBUND.

(Held at Philadelphia, June 1900.)

TO THE NORTH AMERICAN TURNER-BUND:

Dear Sirs:—Upon the courteous invitation of the North American Turner-Bund 1 enjoyed the great pleasure of attending the festival held at Philadelphia, June 20th to 25th, 1900, and in accordance with your request I report my impressions of the meeting.

The festival opened on Wednesday evening with general exercises, held in the Academy of Music, the program including addresses, exercises by local societies, and tableaux.

My first contact with the organized centre, however, occurred an hour earlier at the headquarters on Broad Street. The arrangements seemed to be carefully planned, new-comers were promptly received, supplied with the appropriate badges, and assigned to hotels; and in spite of the difficulties caused by the Republican Convention then occurring, every arrangement was made for our comfort, then and throughout the meeting.

1	understand that this report is to be a frank expression of approval or disapproval and I hope I shall not be. thought ungracious, if, in one

Digitized by t^.oosLe
—74—

'1

or two minor points, I express adverse criticism, although the whole festival seemed to me worthy of hearty commendation.

The exercises in the Academy of Music included light apparatus, heavy apparatus, dancing steps, fencing, games, etc. etc., and ended with tableaux and “statuary,’’ presenting an inspiring patriotic picture for the last scene. The work was shown by both sexes and all ages, from wee children up to white haired men, and for each age the exercise was carefully adjusted to the need and dangers of the period of physical life.

Two of the inseparable concomitants of German gymnastics among German-Americans are not maintained when their forms of exercise afrid apparatus are adopted by Americans of other ancestry; and therefore I want to speak especially of these two here, as both were prominently illustrated in that evening’s entertainment.

“Turning” means not only exercise of the muscles, but whosesome and pleasurable physical expression of bodily vigor for the whole family and for the whole nation. Tne German gymnasium does dot in any degree separate the individual from his home; but, as I understand it, the turner, as a matter of course and even of actual regulation, brings his children to the children’s department, while his wife is often a member of a class, or, at least, is constantly present at the frequent social occasions. Our English-American gymnasia make no effort to maintain this community of family interests, nor to make the social side of the gymnasium association serve any purpose other than that of the individual and “the cause.”

The larger family, the nation, is served by the constant use of patriotic songs and emblems, the flag being everywhere present, while every German gymnasium I have ever entered (and they are many) shows portraits of “the father of his country” and of “the father of German gymnastics”—George Washington and Friedrich Jahn. Within a few years, only, Americans as a whole have had their attention called to the inestimable value of early association with the idea of patriotism, as symbolized by the flag, and a struggle is now being waged to maintain a flag for each public school building: but even that is perhaps less effective than this long-established habit of the turners, for the flag in the school is associated with the child’s type of imposed task, while our German citizens associate it with his joyous, voluntary expression.

The third point that seemed to me essentially valuable as illustrated in this program was the introduction of games.

As the last decade of psychological stud}" in America has groped its way toward a fundamental method and a basal reason for choice of forms in physical training, our minds have been learning to accept the thought that we have been an infinitely less time at learning how, than Nature herself, and that it is hopeless for us, by mental processes to originate a new type of physical evolution, by which to construct perfect bodies. We waste time, if we neglect to follow, intelligently, the method Nature has used to build up our bodies to what they are, and if we try, instead, to create a new method.

Nature, however, teaches by killing. It is a wasteful way. If an animal transgresses he dies; the animal that happened not to do so

Digitized by
-75-

lives and reproduces his kind. To “follow Nature intelligently” is to see what are the laws that may not be transgressed, and warn the member who would otherwise have incurred death. Reason, in man, takes the place of blind destruction in lower animals, the killing process being needed for an ever increasing proportion as you go downward through lower grades to elemental life. Reason, then, is meant to recognize laws, not to make them: to guide development past dangers, not to invent development.

Play psychology teaches us that play is the only physical training whereby wild animals have attained their marvelous bodily powers and advantages,—factors in which man is excelled at every point by one animal or another—as sight, hearing, smell, taste, touch, swiftness, strength, endurance, reaction time,—every faculty which we aim, through exercise, to establish in our bodies. The young animal's exercise has been only play, that is, voluntary activity, impelled by abounding energy, and induced by the resulting sensations of pleasure, but it has been carried out all the time along the line of his future adult actions, which will be done for profit, for an object.

It seems reasonable to say that play, so defined, is an ideal of physical training. But the pure ideal is unattainable without ideal conditions. Even among animals the unideal exists in the weakling individual and that one Nature kills, but we, by reason, try to supply such exercise as shall transform its weakness to strength.

This is the type of “corrective” gymnastics. But for the healthy specimen can we offer better exercise than that of play?—I think we can; because the ideal conditions include not only the individual’s body but also his environment; and the environment of our developed, artificial,industrious life includes deforming tendencies; our ideal of play must have such elements added as shall counteract these tendencies, but in such additions it is a fatal error to submerge or displace the central idea.

Class exercises or formal gymnastics, of a corrective type, can never be safely dispensed with while our children sit at home in chairs made for grown people; remain physically inactive for hours in school; maintain consistently one-sided positions for long periods in writing, playing musical instruments, etc. etc.

But this is the gospel of the “German system”—the primary, basal, fundamental principle of exercise purely educational (not corrective), is that it must follow the natural process by which the body grew to be what it now, normally, is: that is to say, it must be built on the idea of using the body in relation to its environment to attain an . outward end.

The body must be trained to be an automatic instrument between the mind, controlling it, and the thing that mind desires. That is the process that has made our vertebrate body what it is. It is essential to perfect bodily coordination to have a definite end to be won outside the body itself, be it location, as in running, climbing, swimming; or touching a mark,as in fencing, shooting, throwing missiles; or to overcome intelligent opposing force, as in tug-of-war and wrestling.

No human mind can possibly pre-plan all the physical activities

Digitized by tjOOQLe
-76-

involved in attaining the simplest of these ends; and even to try to record all that occurs in mental, chemical, physiological processes would require volumes and exhaust our science without furnishing full explanations. The only way a man can learn to bat a pitched ball is to keep trying: so, too, to hit £ moving mark, while riding at full speed; or to defeat a skillful antagonist in personal encounter. The infinite complexity of these actions makes analysis into the separate muscular contractions utterly impossible. The body has acquired that power through ages of successive attempts, and our minds are too young to understand it. The muscles and their nerves are the adults of evolution: the self-conscious mind is the baby.

The body has been building through ages of adaptation of itself to the outer world; the world would not change, it was the permanent, unyielding fact. The animal must adapt itself or die. This is still true. It is a basal, scientific error to set the man in the midst of his surroundings and adapt these to him, arrange his educational gymnastics in relation only to him. Inductive science demands that his body shall be trained to use in relation to a perfectly independent environment. It is strictly accurate and scientific to say “Here is a horse (or rope, or bar); what things can I do in relation to it?” rather than “Here is an arm; what movements can I execute with it?” The latter view-point is excused if there is local lack or deformity in the arm; but then the exercises must be classified as corrective, not educational.

To consider simply the movement executed, and not some thing accomplished by the movement is to stop half way: it is one half of an arch hanging in the air, unsupported by the other half: the move ment should be the keystone between desire and accomplishment.

* *

The only thing which seemed to me open to regret in this evening’s work was the length of the memorized exercises. I think that, as a rule, children in gymnastic classes are also in schools; and the memory being sufficiently used in the latter, it is better in the gymnasium to draw the blood away from those parts of the brain into the muscles and their corresponding motor centres. The same rule applies to many brain working adults.

If asked to give the weakest point of this splendid national system,

I	should say, its constant danger lies in a place which must always be watched and guarded, because it is impossible to alter it entirely. The use, on heavy apparatus, of squad# leaders, not professionally trained but merely helped, more or less, beyond their fellows, by the gymnasium director, opens the way for laxness of form, since these men, of course, cannot be as perfect teachers as those with years of normal training* But the practical gain attained by this custom justifies it, first, for its economy, without which the capacity of the gymnasia would be much less ; and, second, for the stimulus it offers to the members of the classes to become worthy of the trust. (The turners’ adoption of the European rule that a man must land on his feet and keep his balance

Digitized by Google
—77—

after any jump is a good step toward “form,” and one our colleges might well follow.)

The following two days were devoted chiefly to the individual tests of proficiency, every man of each visiting delegation being required to compete in each of several events, and his own personal success being recorded, ranked, and, at the end, rewarded, if reaching the required standard, by prizes purely honorary, not intrinsically valuable.

These events are selected after the Y. M. C. A, “Pentathlon” theory, to include wholly different types of activity and so make it impossible for a man to earn his prize by neglecting one part of his body and overtraining another. It is an excellent plan and the only way to insure allround development.

Fencing bouts and wrestling contests recalled the origin of “the German system;” and bicycle, foot, and especially swimming races encouraged practically valuable forms of skill. I was interested to note that a minority of those starting in each swimming contest used the “racing stroke,” the side stroke, especially right, being most popular; but a majority of those who finished were those of the racing stroke, although even the breast stroke was represented among the winners.

Competitions in choral singing, recitations, and speeches illustrated the wide range of social interests forstered by the organization.

The grand street parade on Saturda}r was unique in its masses of color, the gray costume forming a consistent background of pleasant tone, for the gorgeous group of beautiful flags leading each section. Of course the national flag was always one.

The mass exercises at the Ball Park followed the parade. The wand drill given this year was, in itself, an excellent compilation, giving a great deal of trunk movement. Light apparatus work is often open to criticism on the ground that movements are introduced for the spectacular effect, when done simultaneously by many people, which have, however, no especial value to each man making the movement. That could not be said of this drill. I should rank it second only to the “Roberts Dumbbell Drill” for allround value in light apparatus work, the preference given the latter depending essentially on the character of the apparatus itself, bells giving a freedom which wands forbid.

A slight flaw in the working of one of the machines used in the personal tests brought out an interesting point of character in the members of the organization. Electric automatic recorders were affixed to the climbing ropes but did not work successfully, so this timing was done by watches, and great delay resulted. The men waiting thdr turn stood quietly and patiently in line, in the hot sun, for hours, without disorder or audible grumbling, cheerfully accepting the unavoidable, and submitting to the authority whose only power over them was what they themselves had voluntarily conferred. It was good citizenship.

The meeting lasted three and one half days; the weather was warm, the physical exercise created thirst; the excitement of the National Republican Convention was pervading the city; and here were over two thousand men, away from home, among strangers, on a festival excursion. Yet throughout my stay I saw no single instance of intoxication
-78-

or disorder among the turners. Very few organizations, I think, could hold such a gathering under such circumstances without some breach of order being visible to an interested and constant observer.

Every preparation was made for possible accidents or illness. Two hospital tents were ready and in each two surgeons and two nurses, while two more physicians patrolled the grounds, and two ambulances stood ready harnessed all day.

The grounds were also guarded by about thirty police.

It appeared that the risks and dangers of such great gatherings were foreseen and forestalled and that, with the drawbacks so eliminated, the positive value of such a general pleasure to all the participants, and such a stirring incentive to sympathetic emulation among widely scattered societies of the great body, stood out with unshadowed prominence.

The influence of the sense of sympathetic, concerted action, emphasized by the unalterable uniform, and displayed by these frequently recurring festivals of mass exercises, can hardly be over-rated.

In closing, I wish to express my own great pleasure in my post of observer, and my sincere thanks to the association for its very kind invitation, and to add a grateful acknowledgment to those many individuals, whose constant and unfailing courtesies made the days such pleasant ones.

Very cordially yours

Alice Bertha Foster, M. D., Director Women’s Gymnasium of Oberlin College.

—Many a man who in later life finds himself in a dangerous strait would wish for no one better by his side than the lad who wrestled with him in the gymnasium. The cries and cheers in the games and plays must have given heart to many a desperate soldier when hard pressed in the turmoil of actual war.

—For use and influence in the world, for a capacity to enjoy the purest pleasures of life, and as an example of all the finest qualities of womanhood, no one among the “higher educated” can eompare with such an one as the “Nut Brown Maid.” The ballad of the “Nut Brown Maid” might well be engraved upon the wall of every ‘finishing* school for young ladies.

THE HALF-TONE ILLUSTRATIONS, embodied in the Report of the two Committees of Observation of the 28th Festival of the N. A.

G.	U. at Philadelphia, recently published by order of the Executive Committee, are a highly commendable feature of the said volume. There are 8 of them. The frontispiece represents the exterior of the Hall of the Philadelphia Tumgemeinde during the festivities; the picture opposite page 80 shows a part of the festival grounds; that opposite page 81 an exercise in rope-climbing and that opposite page 82 the street-parade of the turners on Broadway. The remainder of the illustrations will be inserted in the next issue of Mind and Body.

Digitized by v^ooQle
Digitized by LjOOQle
Digitized by

Google


Digitized by LjOOQte
Digitized by LjOOQte
-88-

EXTRACTS FROM EUROPEAN JOURNALS ON PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

By CARL L. SCHRADER.

The Influence of Games upon the Female Sex. During the Fourth Annual Convention for the Promotion of Popular Games, gymnasium inspector Hermann of Braunschweig delivered a lecture, . the most striking sentences of which will be given here:

“The games in tht open air, under the blue skye in bright and warm sunshine or during less favorable weather, harden and strenghten the body more than any other means. They render the bodies of our female adolescents weatherproof, and this strengthening process is of the highest vital importance. One need fear no scorching the skin, if it should be exposed to the rays of the sun, even for hours. On the contrary, experience has taught me that not only do the girls endure the heat without hats as well as do the boys, but their pleasure and desire for activity is increased even under these influencial eonditions. How the sunlight, and particularly the activity in the sunlight, stimulates the formation of red eorpucles, arid how on the other hand disease germs are destroyed or weakened, when exposed to the rays of the sun, has been amply demonstrated by eminent scientists. ‘Sunlight and health’ would be a fitting inscription above entrances to play-grounds.

“But another factor still, which influences the health and strength of our females, is to be found in the play of games. The fetters which a false and unnatural fashion in girls’ and women’s dress has put upon them and which hinder all free movements are thrown off, as it were. The corset, so frequently discussed, which has been instrumental in bringing about voluntary changes in the bodily structure of whole races, has lost its reign among those girls, who have learned to enjoy the liberty of movement that comes with the games. I need not enumerate the many evil influences which this machine of torture, the ugliest and most unhygienic production in the mode of woman’s attire, exerts upon the different structures and functions. It is certain that wherever the girls have begun to practice gymnastics or games, and where by means of proper teaching of the history of art, that the natural form of the Venus de Medice stands for a higher ideal of womanly beauty than the wasplike figure of a corset-attired fashion dame, there the steel rod armor has lost its usefulness.

“The general laxity which we observe among women to-day, and especially among our city girls, ceases as soon as we offer the girls conditions which give them opportunities to satisfy nature’s demand for ample activity, and offer them time and space to enter into games at their heart’s content.

“If I have undertaken to point out that, by means of outdoor games, our female adolescents may be greatly benefited physically, another effect or influence, equall}r important, must not be left unmentioned. Ethically the organized game is of great value. It exercises a powerful influence upon the character of the individual and the mental training in general. Jahn once said: ‘A whole world manifest’s itself in

Digitized by CjOOQle
-84—

a genuine gymnastic game. Thus, games form the transition to the great life and lead the roundel of youth. In them is stored a social, pleasurable, and vicarious contest. Here labor is coupled with joy, earnestness with jubilation. Here youth is taught to observe equal laws and rights. Here it observes customs, manners, reason, and skill, all in one alive illustration.’ These are golden words! All in all then: Games give our youth, boys as well as girls, a productive pleasure and joy, and ‘pleasure is the best means to strenghten the nerves’, says Herbert Spencer. The child’s mind has a right to the pleasure and sunshine of life, but his best traits are to dwindle away to rust. Not only the daughters of the upper ten thousand are to be thus benefited, but also those of the lower classes, and these even more so.”

Gymnastics among Great Scholars. A Vienna journal on physical training in reporting the death of the eminent chemist Prof. Friedel, mentions the fact, that Friedel, until shortly before his death, was an active and regular member of a gymnastic class, consisting of scientists and great literary men. He thus maintained a bodily and mental freshness down into old age.

In most Vienna colleges the faculties have formed gymnastic classes.

Gymnasium Floors: The Turnverein of Bremen, Germany, reports the result of an experiment of a new gymnasium flooring. It consists of linoleum laid upon a solid cement floor. Even after hard usage it shows no sign of wear and has indeed many advantages over the old wooden floor. The gymnasium covers a space of 530 sq. meter. Two-thirds of this space is thus covered with linoleum while the other third is filled with a mixture of sand, salt, and saw dust for jumping purposes. Linoleum has solved the dust problem entirely.

Physical Training in Japan, which is modelled to a large degree after the European, figures very conspicuously in the education of that countr}\ Dr. Burgass gives the translation of a paper on bodily training in Japan, which was read before the recent Health Congress in Paris. It is interesting to note that every country school has either its gymnasium or out-door play-ground, and that physical exercises are part of the obligatory school-work, from 3 to 6 hours weekly being devoted to it. An organization similar to the “Deutsche Turnerschaft” is recognized as one of the leading institutions of the country. Bathing and swimming are in general practice. Popular games are being indulged in very extensively by both sexes. The author of this paper even claims his country the home ol foot-ball.

Accidents in the Gymnasium. A noteworthy compilation of gymnasium accidents is contained in the Yearly Report of the Hannover Public Schools. During the entire year in all the schools of that city only seven accidents occured, as against 12 in the previous years and 2, 7, and 10 respectively in the preceding years. The total number of scholars were 31,038, making one accident to every 4,434, or figuring on 44,900 lessons during the year, one accident in 6,414 lessons. All accidents were of a light character.

Digitized by t^ooQle
M'Sp ftND BODY. ^

Published Monthly.

BY

Subscription Price, $1.00 per Year.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO,

1 -waukee, ■WTjacoaa.slaa...

*9“ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee,Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

A TREATISE ON PHYSICAL EDUCATION BY A SWEDISH REPRESENTATIVE IN ENGLAND.

HE first copy since many years of The Posse Gymnasium Journal *

(Vol. IX, No. 4) has been sent us recently, apparently for the purpose of calling our attention to an article written by M. Stansfeld of England. The issue in question, however, contains only the concluding portion of the article. Nevertheless we consider it interesting enough to allow it space below. We agree heartily with most of Mr. Stansfeld’s arguments with even some of those directed against the German system ; but must needs make some corrections and refute some of the statements made.

Here is the article:

Now for the points which should characterize gymnastics for children. As the time allotted to the subject in English schools is small, none must be wasted in unnecessary exercises, but each movement must have some defined physiological value, such as that of enlarging the chest and, therefore, the lungs, of flattening the back, of holding the head erect, etc. No movement may be chosen merely for its spectacular effect. The movements must be equally adapted for the very weak and very strong; the only thing to be considered in choosing them is the physical well-being of the children.

“The best of all exercises are those which we call ‘free’ movements; the body is supported firmly on the legs so that the spine has no tendency to assume a vicious position in order to maintain an abnormal equilibrium, and the exercises consist in successive movements of flexion, extension, etc., of the legs, trunk, arms, pelvis, and neck. No weights are held in the hands; so each limb does work in proportion to the strength of its own weight. There is a perfectly measured contraction of all antagonistic muscles, and no tendency to predominant contraction of flexors over extensors, and vice versa, and in consequence no tendency to draw the bones into abnormal positions.” The movements should not be so much violent athletics, as “poses” in which the body is made to assume the best possible position. Great attention must be paid to the abdominal muscles, which are very little used in ordinary walking, standing, or sitting, but the strength of which is of the highest importance in the functions of every-day life.	4

Gymnastics for children should not attempt to make large muscles nor should children be allowed to perform feats of strength and skill—those can be reserved for the professional acrobat. Harmonious development must be aimed at, so that step by step with muscular improvement the heart and lungs may grow stronger. Very large muscles are usually developed at the expense of some other part, and you may have an individual with enormous muscular strength accompanied by weak organs.

Development must not be hurried ; the motto of physical training should be “Slow and sure.” Spasmodic, violent, and long-continued exercises are useless, and often attended with bad results.

Every lesson, however simple, should bring into play every group of muscles, so that the effect produced is not local aching, but general slight fatigue. The

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

\

Digitized by

Google
-86-

large, strong muscles, like those of the legs, should get the most work ; so most of the exercises should be “ground” exercises. In some systems of gj’tnnastics, especially the German, nearly all the apparatus used tends to make the arms try to do the work that the legs naturally do; it is all apparatus for suspension, tending to develop large arm and shoulder muscles, and producing the so-called “gymnastic stoop.”

Of course some apparatus is necessary to provide variety, but in the Swedish sy.sfem the movements are usually taken with straight arms, the object being more to straighten the spine bv the weight of the body than to perform strong movements by means of the delicate and small arm muscles.

Parallel bars should never be used by children; for small boys and girls the effect is that the shoulders are pushed up, the head depressed between the shoulders, and the chest compressed and contracted; the starting-position is radically wrong, the arms supporting the weight which should naturally be born by the legs, and the resulting fatigue is entirely local.

Progression in movement should be very gradual indeed, so that as the muscle increases in power there is a corresponding increase of power in lungs, heart, blood-vessels, and digestive organs, without the least danger of strain. Again, with little children there should be no competition; this is ensured by the work being taken in classes, and all apparatus work being carefully watched.

Movements should be as simple as possible, consistent with a sufficient amount of work. No good object is served b}' very difficult exercises; the resulting fatigue is far more mental than it is physical. Movements are better taken to command than to music. The best results are obtained even in a simple movement by the concentration of the will on the exercise; the bending and straightening are both more complete, and you get the brain, by means of the nerves, brought into more intimate connection with the muscles. Thus the muscles in time respond more readily and easily to the will, and greater self-control and self-reliance are produced. Clumsiness and awkwardness generally are only signs of want of nervous control over the muscles; and for improving this there is nothing like exercise to command. Exercise to music becomes completely automatic—though music may be taken with such natural automatic movements as walking, once the correct way of walking has been taught.

Why the writer should object to any weights or hand-apparatus during free-movement work, we cannot quite understand. Mr. Stans-feld’s theory, that without apparatus there is a more evenly balanced action of the muscles, is not correct. We are more or less dependent on physical work, while making a living, or bent on pleasure, and are hardly ever entirely without, some apparatus (tools etc. etc.) while performing such work. Yet we observe that the heavier the tool or the burden habitual^ used, the greater is the muscular and structural development.

Apparatus in free movements are not necessary, but certainly not contra-indicated. If the motto of physical training must be “slow and sure,” if spasmodic, violent, and long continued exercises are to be eliminated, then, we a§k, what becomes of our games? And in the games we have one of the best forms of physical training. In fact, without games, any system of physical training is incomplete.

The criticism that apparatus work with the Germans has been undertaken too early in life or otherwise overdone is not without foundation. But this has been remedied to a great extent and in a progressive spirit by introducing features that more than make up for past transgressions. If other systems are as willing to improve their shortcomings, there will soon be very little difference between systems.

The writer cautions against exercises that result in mental fatigue, but in the same paragraph goes on to assert “that the best results are

Digitized by v^ooQle
-87-

obtained in simple movements by concentration of the will on the exercise.” Now will-power is an expression of nerve-force, and we are told, by pedagogues and scientists, that the latter should be saved if physical training is to serve its purpose. It is to be expected that Mr. Stansfeld, as a true Swede, condemns automatic exercises and exercises with music. He, of course, prefers exercises to simple command.

We recommend physical exercise with the least mental exertion possible, for reasons given above. Exercises with simple commands demand close attention. Exercises performed with music are setting the mind almost completely at rest.

Such exercises as swimming, rowing, walking, the playing of games, etc., require little or no mental work, the physical program is carried out automatically, as it were, and still it must be admitted that they are classified among the very best forms of exercise.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—We hoped to receive the program for the Turnlehrer-Tag (Convention of the Instructors of the N. A. G. TJ.) to be held in Buffalo in July, early enough for publishing it in this issue of M. & B.

—We are in receipt of very enthusiastic newspaper-reports on exhibitions given and contests held by the pupils of Geo. Wittich in St. Louis, Mo., and J. Schmitt, in Denver, Colo., both directors of physical training in the public schools of their cities.

—At this time of the year most of the districts of the N. A. G. U. (Turnerbund) are having their biennial festivals and contests. We are not in position to publish the different programs as our space is too limited.

—The Y. M. C. A. Physical Directors of Pennsylvania held their 4th annual conference in Philadelphia, June 3rd to 8th, 1901. The following was the program:

Monday. 11 a. m.: H. L. Chadwick, Presiding.—Opening Address, W. C. Douglas, Philadelphia.—Announcements.

2:30 p. m.—W. C. Kyle, Paterson, N. J., Presiding.—Ten minute papers, twenty minutes discussion.—Topic: Practical Out-Door Athletics and Gymnastics, W. C. Cowing, Germantown.—Topic: Summer Camps, W. E. Hoffman, Philadelphia.—Topic: How to Keep Up Interest in Summer without Out-Door Grounds, R. C. Wagner, Elmira, N. 1.

Tuesday, 9:30 a. m.—9:30, Pizzicati and Anvil Chorus, A. F. Wolf, Williamsport, Pa.—10:00, Swedish Gymnastics (Practical), Dr. E. H. Ehinger, Philadelphia.—11:00, Gymnastic Games, W. H. Ward, Norfolk, Va.

8 p. m.—G. F. Howard, Montclair, N-. J., Presiding.—8:00, How to Hold Juniors, C. C. Robinson.—8:30, Lecture, Dr. Randolph Faries, Philadelphia.

Wednesday, June 5.—Conference and Outing at Dwight Farm (Athletic Day).

Thursday, 9:30 a. m.—9:30, “Some New Features,’’ D. C. McLaughlin, New London, Conn.—10:15, Methods of Grading Work, L. M. Smith, Newark, N. J. 11:00, Recreative Tumbling (Special).

8 p. m.—B. F. Bryant, Camden, N. J., Presiding.—Lecture, Dr. John C. Heisler, Medico-Chirurgical College, Philadelphia.

Friday, 9:30 a. m.—9:30, Horse Work (German System).—10:15, Parallel Bars, W. J. Hermann, Philadelphia.

2:30 p. m.—Corrective Gvmnastics for Deformities Illustrated at Orthopaedic Ward.

Digitized by
-88-

Saturday, 9:30 a. m.—9:45, Address, Geo. T. Hepbron, New York City.— 10:15, Address, S. M. Bard, State Sec. of Penn’a.—Closing Exercises.

Every delegate was requested to attend all sessions promptly, so there was no delay in carrying' out the program. He must wear his gymnasium suit and be ready for practical work, to be admitted to the gymnasium.

(From the American Physical Education Review.)

A Preliminary Study of Pupils' Attitudes.*

By LILLIAN M. TOWNE, Boston Normal School.

THE object of the Section work as outlined at the time of its inception, was to formulate methods of observation and experiment that would be of use from the point of view of physical training and to carry on investigation when possible.

Accordingly, at our first meeting, last March, it was decided that a study should be made of the positions taken by school-children, when no incentive for good posture was presented. Not only members of the Section, but many public school teachers as well, began to observe the positions taken by pupils in various recitations, so that by June first, seventy-two reports relating to about 3,500 pupils from the primary, the grammar, and the high school grades were in the hands of the committee. Many interesting points connected with school-life were revealed by these reports. Thus, foot-stools, when provided, were frequently not used at all by the children. Again, dissimilarities between the positions assume^ by boys and girls became evident. Moreover, a study of the reports showed that one pupil might have been classed under two or more faulty positions. Hence, it was suggested that the study of “Positions” be the work of the Section in the fall.

For this latter work printed blanks containing a list of faulty positions and the following points of inquiry were provided:

Grade—Number of pupils? Boys? Girls?

Seats—Adjustable ? Non-adjustable? Frequency of adjustment ? Sizes? Crickets—Provided? Used? Not provided? Not used?

Windows—Left? Right? Back? Front?

Recitation or Study Period—Kind? Length? Time of day? Kind of day?

But the teachers, after answering the general points, found the use of the blanks more difficult than the plotting of the positions of the pupils according to the plan of the room, as is indicated below:

BOYS.

Feet braced against left iron of desk. Sliding down in chair.

GIRLS. Shoulders forward. Chest flat. Leaning on both elbows.

BOYS.

Right knee in desk. Left foot braced against right iron of desk.

GIRLS. Shoulders twisted. Leaning on left elbow. Left leg crossed over right.

This plotting of the positions has been generally managed in one of two ways. The teacher has noted the positions, while the pupils have been engaged in work, or another person has noted the positions, the

* Report of the Public School Section of the Boston Physical Education Society, December 13, 1900.

Digitized by C.OOQLe
—89—

teacher meanwhile being engaged in teaching or in guiding the work of the class.

During the exercise nothing was to be said about position. Hence, in many cases, more than a transitory position of the body has been indicated. Yet in others the positions have changed, so that the question has arisen as to whether one faulty position may or may not be followed by a counteracting one.

On November twenty-eighth it was found that 2,802 primary and grammar pupils had been reported upon, while several helpful reports had come from high and normal schools. The reports were then arranged in grades: Grade I, the lowest primary (age about five years); Grade II; Grade III, the highest primary (age seven or eight years); Grade IV, lowest grammar (age eight or nine years); Grade V; Grade VI; Grade VII; Grade VIII; Grade IX, highest grammar (age fourteen or fifteen years).

Each teport was then examined to see if it were accurate. If not, it was discarded. Moreover, in selecting the report, the aim was to have an approximately equal number of bovs and girls for each grade,—thus Grade IV furnished 89 boys and 93 girls; Grade VIII, 96 boys and 89 girls.

Hence the following tabulation is based upon 757 boys and 72T girls, a total of 1,484 primary and grammar pupils. Again, the reports were selected as far as possible, not only from widely separated parts of Boston, but from places outside as well. Thus, the reports upon position for one grade might include boys and girls from Bridgewater, boys from East Boston and girls from Waltham. So, with widely different environment, any common positions would seem to indicate a tendency connected with school-life.

The next step was to tabulate all the faulty positions for each grade, and the number of cases under each position, so that at the completion of the tabulation, it seemed as if there were an endless mass of positions on hand that could mean very little to anyone. But the next suggestion was to classify all these positions according to their dominant factor. The result was the arrangement indicated in Table I. Upon this table was then placed the number of the various positions for each grade.

TABLE I.

I.	Correct or excellent position.

II.	Front positions.

i. Erect.

a)	Feet braced back.

b)	Feet crossed and braced back.

c)	Feet unevenly braced.

d)	Feet crossed front.

e)	Feet in aisle.

f)	Feet in aisle, leaning on elbow.

) Feet in desk irons.

) Feet in one desk iron.

i)	Foot in one iron, leaning on one elbow.

j)	Knees in desk.

k)	One knee in desk.

l)	Legs crossed.

m)	Legs crossed, one foot in desk iron.

n)	l.egs crossed, leaning on one elbow.

o)	Sitting on both feet.

p)	Sitting on one foot.

q)	Sitting on one foot, leaning on one elbow.

r)	Sitting on one foot, shoulders uneven.

s)	Leaning on both elbows.

t)	Leaning on the elbows, feet crossed, one foot in desk iron.

u)	Leaning on one elbow.

v)	Leaning on one elbow, feet braced back.

w)	Leaning on one elbow, legs crossed.

x)	Leaning on both elbows, feet crossed front.

2.	Chest collapsed.

Minor positions noted as under i.

3.	Sliding down.

Treated as in i.

4.	Shoulders uneven.

Treated as in 1.

III. Twisted positions.

1.	Erect.

Treated as in front positions.

2.	Shoulders uneven.

As in front position.

3.	Pelvis front, shoulders twisted.

As in front position.

4.	Sliding down.

As in front position.

Digitized by CjOOQle
* I

r

-90-

A study on the tabulations of Table I reveals certain facts. In the front, erect,—in the uneven shoulder positions,—and in the twisted positions—about the same variations in position of the feet appear. But in the sliding-down positions, whether front or twisted, the variations in faulty position of the feet are less in number. Many positions noted as to the legs and feet have disappeared, as if the pupil, in sliding down in his seat, were comfortable enough without needing a further brace of the feet or the arms. An interesting experiment was that made by one teacher, who asked her pupils to take the position each most preferred. Out of the class of fifty girls, twenty-nine at once took the position of sliding down in their seats with twisted shoulders. It was found that for all grades only one-third as many girls slide down in their seats as boys, the ratio being 108 boys to 33 girls.

The habit of bracing one or both knees in the desk is more common among the boys than among the girls,—seven times as many boys taking the position as girls. Moreover, this position seems practically to end at about the sixth grade. Likewise the habit of sitting upon one foot seems to end for the boys as a whole in the same grade, but is continued with the girls in exceptional cases throughout the entire course. Thirty-four girls show this habit as opposed to fourteen boys. Moreover, the greatest number of girls having this fault is found in the primary and lower grammar grades. Yet pupils in high and normal schools have been found sitting upon one foot or standing to recite with one leg resting upon the chair. The habit of leaning upon the elbows seems to be lacking in the primary grades; but, beginning in the lowest grammar, increases in frequency in the higher grades. In noting the total for elbow positions, it is seen that nearly twice as many girls support themselves, upon their elbows as boys. As the habit of bracing the knees in the desk among boys and of sitting upon one foot among the girls grows less, the new position of bracing the feet in the desk irons increases, till, at the close, we find three times as many girls as boys having this habit. The latter, instead, extend their feet into the aisles. Among all pupils the tendency to brace the feet backward or forward increases as we go from the lower to the higher grades.

With the exception of a few sporadic cases, the twisted positions are more prevalent in the grammar than in the primary grades. In the twisted erect positions, the girls tend to cross the legs more than the boys, the latter bracing their feet in various ways. Beginning most notedly at the seventh grade is found the position “pelvis front, shoulders twisted.’’ Yet there is a posibility that this position may appear in lower grades in such subjects as writing or drawing, later to become a habit in any recitation in higher grades. Another interesting point revealed by the study is the increase in complexity of positions from the lowest grade to the highest. In the lowest primary, a pupil may have the trunk twisted but the feet flat. In the highest grammar, we may find the twisted trunk combined with the crossing of the right leg over the left, the bracing of the right foot in the irons at the left, and the leaning at the right elbow. It was due to this elaboration of detail that the committee at first seemed to have so many endless unclassified positions upon its hands.

Digitized by tjOOQle
-91-

Another point revealed b}r the study is the beginning of certain faulty positions in grade IV, and their continuation through the sixth or seventh grades, that is between the ages of eight and thirteen years. In the fourth grade, some positions appear for the first time, others noticed in the primary grades disappear before the seventh grade. Yet, as a whole, the number of faulty positions increases within this limit and then decreases. This may be due to the fact that, in grade four, the child finds himself, as regards work, in an environment quite different from that of the primary school. Yet, the suggestive query comes. Is there any connection between this increase of faulty positions and the growing period of the child? And, finally, the detailed study of Table I verifies many of the cursory reports gathered in the spring.

The next step in the work was the simplifying of Table I, as is seen in the following:	'

TABLE II.

I. Correct positions.

II. Front positions.

1.	Erect.

a)	Variations in position of	feet.

b)	“	“	“	“	knees.

c)	“	“	“	“	legs.

d)	“	“	“	“	elbows.

e)	“	“	“	“	shoulders.

2.	Collapsed chest.

Variations as in erect positions.

3.	Sliding down

Variations as in erect positions.

III.	Twisted positions.

1.	Erect.

Variations as in front positions.

2.	Pelvis front, shoulders twisted. Variations as in front positions.

3.	Sliding down.

Variations as in front positions.

IV.	Uneven shoulders.

1.	Front positions.

Variations.

2.	Twisted positions.

Variations.

From Table II the third table was evolved.

I. Correct positions. 13 per cent.

II.	Erect positions.

1.	Variations of feet. 21 per cent.

2.	Variations in extremities. 19 per cent.

a)	Lower.

b)	Upper.

III.	Non-erect positions.

1.	Sliding down. 13 per cent.

a)	Body front.

(1) Variations in extremities.

(a)	Lower.

(b)	Upper.

b)	Body twisted

U) Variations in extremities.

(a)	Lower.

(b)	Upper.

2.	Twisted positions. 23 per cent.

a) Erect.

(1)	Variations of feet.

(2)	Variations in extremities.

(a)	Lower.

(b)	Upper.	,

b) Pelvis front, shoulders twisted.

(1)	Variaiions of feet.

(2)	Variations in extremities.

(a)	Lower.

(b)	Upper.

IV.	Uneven shoulder positions. 4 per cent.

1.	Body front.

a)	Variations of feet..

b)	Variations of extremities.

(1)	Lower.

(2)	Upper.

2.	Body twisted.

Variations as in “Body front.”

TABLE III.

The last table shows that 13 per cent of the 1,484 pupils were in correct position, but the detailed study of Table I showed that the number of pupils in good position increases from the lower grades to the highest. About 40 per cent, of the pupils were in non-erect positions,—13 per cent, were sliding down (9 per cent, when the body was front and 4 per cent, when the body was twisted), -23 per cent of all the pupils were in twisted positions. In per cent., one-half of the pupils having the pelvis front and shoulders twisted were found beyond the seventh grade. Only 4 percent, were noted as having uneven shoulders, but undoubtedly in many cases this posture has been associated with others, as sitting upon one leg or leaning upon one elbow. The total of the per cents, equals 93 instead of 100, but that is due to the fact that a greater or less fraction was discarded in each of the six estimates.

Digitized by U.ooQle
-92-

Thus, the results of the tabulations from the primary and grammar grades have been summarized. In general, the high school reports show a continuation of positions found in the upper grammar grades, the complexity of the positions being very apparent. In several reports dealing with high school girls alone, there appears a greater tendency than noticed elsewhere for the girls to slide down in their seats. But this may be accounted for by the fact that, in many of these observations, the girls were sitting upon settees rather than at the ordinary school desk.

While the preceding tabulations may be of slight value, yet certain thoughts are suggested, not only by observation of the reports themselves, but also by the helpful notes that the teachers have frequently made. Thus, one teacher says, “In a music or a reading lesson the position is good. In a study period few children keep a good position. In busy work, none.” Again, the positions noted in one class during sewing were so faulty as to be amazing, when one considered the good positions of those girls in recitation periods. So the question arises, Are the pupils taking in their sewing, their sloyd, their cooking and their busy work, their more natural positions? If so, a study of the same pupils in consecutive periods of work would certainly prove interesting.

Again, from a teacher in one of the State Normal Training Schools comes the statement that the children recorded in poor positions, are peculiar,—slow in body and mind. A comparison of the positions of the slow, the dull, or the defective children with those of the alert and strong would surely be of value.

Several teachers have reported that the faulty positions were invariably found among the children who were of an extremely nervous temperament, or who were physically weak. Every school-room has its exceptionally nervous children; and so in this direction may be another line of work.

Thus, as the subject broadens, it becomes evident why it was urged. last June that the Section keep to one line of work for this year at least. Old questions are still unanswered. New ones have arisen. Suggestions for further work are many, but conclusions, as yet, cannot be offered, for the Section realizes that it has touched merely the confines of a subject that is closely connected, not only with the study of physical development, but also with the development of every child.

The Section is indebted to many public school teachers, through whose cooperation the reports have been largely gathered, and to Dr.

R.	W. Lovett, President of the Boston Physical Education Society, for many practical suggestions as to method of study.

—If one watches the stream of men, boys, and girls, which pours out at the close of day from a great city factory, the question may be well asked: Are these superior to the savage in all things, and are there no points in which the savage could claim some advantage over his modern contemporary?

Digitized by v^ooQle

a
-93-

CALISTHENICS.

By FRITZ KRIMMEL.*

(In groupe I and II two counts to each movement.)

Group I.

1st Exercise.

2nd Exercise,

3rd Exercise.

4th Exercise.

a)	r. hand on r. hips, 1. h. on r. shoulders.

b)	Step pos. s. 1. and swing 1. arm sideways.

c)	Swing back to pos. a).

d)	Start pos.

a)	Like a, 1st exercise.

b)	Lunge s. 1. and swing 1. arm up and sideways down.

c)	Swing up to pos. a.

d)	Start pos.

a)	Like a, 1st exercise.

b)	Cross step backw. 1. and swing 1. arm forw.

(% turn of trunk to the left.)

c)	Swing back to pos. a.

d)	Start pos.

a)	Like a, 1st exercise.

b)	Lunge s. 1., turn head to 1., and swing 1. arm down.

c)	Swing down to pos. a.

d)	Start, pos.

Group II.

1st Exercise.

2nd Exercise.

3rd Exercise.

a)	Raise arms s. and place hds. on shoulders.

b)	Lower elbows (touching sides) and bend knees.

c)	Back to a.

d)	Rise on toes and straighten arms upw.

e)	Back to a.

f)	Like b.

g)	Like a.

h)	Start, pos.—Repeat once.

a)	Like a, 1st exercise.

b)	Close feet and swing elbows forw.

c)	Back to a.

d)	Bend trunk forw., swing arms forw. down, on back.

e)	Back to a.

f)	Like b.

g)	Like a.

h)	Start, pos.—Repeat once.

a)	Like a, 1st exercise. *

b)	Like b, 1st exercise.

c)	Like c, 1st exercise.

d)	Bend trunk s. 1. and straighten arms sideways.

e)	Back to a.

f)	Like b.

g)	Like c.

h)	Start, pos.—Repeat with bending trunk s. r.

* This drill was given by the second boys-class (8 to io years) of the Turnverein “Bloomingdale,” New York, at the Gymnastic Exhibition in honor of the A. A. A. P. E. Convention in the 9th Regt. Armory, New York, April 20th, 1901.

Digitized by CnOOQle
-94-

4th Exercise, a) Like a, 2nd exercise.

b) Like b, 2nd exercise.

c) Like c, 2nd exercise.

d)	Bend trunk backw. and raise arms to circle over head-

e)	Back to a.

f)	Like b.

g)	Like c.

h)	Start, pos.—Repeat once.

(To be concluded in next number.)

CALISTHENIC, WAND, AND CLUB DRILL

FOR THE PUPILS OF THE 4TH TO 8TH GRADES OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS, AT THE FESTIVAL OF THE ANNUITY ASSOCIATION, ST. LOUIS, MO., MAY 25.

By GEO. WITTICH, Supervisor of Physical Culture.

Free Exercises for the Pupils of 3d, 4th and 5th Grades.

PART I.

1st Exercise—Whole turn left in 8 steps, 2 steps to each *4 turn ...... 1—8

Then bend knees to right angle with arms sidewise, as a position  9—12

Stand erect....................................................... 13—16

2d Exercise—Bend knees to right angle with arms forward ............... 1—2

Return.......................................................... 3—4

Toe-stand with arms forward upward.............................. 5—6

Return.......................................................... 7—8

Repeat ............................................................ 9—16

3rd Exercise—Bend trunk forward, obtuse angle, with arms sidewise upward to a circle*.............................................. 1—2

Return.......................................................... 3—4

Bend trunk backward	with same	arm movement.......................... 5—6

Return.......................................................... 7—8

Repeat.......................................................... 9—16

4th Exercise—Side step position left, stationary knee bent, with left arm

sidewise and right arm upward................................ 1—2

Return.............................................................. 3—4

In opposite direction .......................................... 5—8

Repeat............................................................  9—16

5th Exercise—Side lunge left with arms slanting, left arm upward....... 1—2

Return.............................................................. 3—4

Same right ..................................................... 5—6

Return.......................................................... 7—8

Repeat............................................................  9—16

6th Exercise—March forward 4 steps with arms forward upward, as a

position.......................................................  1—4

March on place with arms sidewise .............................. 5—8

Return by marching backward	with arms upward....................... 9—16

PART II.

A pause of 16 beats will be made after each part, the time will be indicated by tapping on drums. Pupils must count silently.

Hands must be placed on hips on 9th beat of pause.

1st Exercise—Half turn	right	in	4	steps................................ 1—4

Toe-stand with arms to a circle overhead, as a position......... 5—8

Half turn right with hands on	hips ............................ 9—12

Stand still......................................................  13—16

2d Exercise—Arms forward.............................................   1—2

Arms sideways with bending knees to right angles................ 3—4

Digitized by
-95-

Return........................................................... 5—E

Repeat............................................................. 9—16

3rd Exercise—Arms forward.............................................  1—2

Bend trunk backward with arms upward................................ 3—4

Return...........................................................    5—8

Repeat............................................................. 9—16

4th Exercise—Arms forward upward....................................... 1—2

Bend trunk forward, right angle, with % arm circle inward........... 3—4

Return........................................................... 5—&

Repeat............................................................  9—16

5th Exercise—Side lunge left with arms upward.......................... 1—2

Bend trunk sidewise left with arms sidewise, at right angles with trunk 3—4

Return.............................................................  5—8

Repeat...........................................................   9—16

6th Exercise—March forward 4 steps with arms upward, sidewise, upw.

and on hips....................—................................  1—2

Half-turn right in 4 steps with hands on hips....«.................. 5—8

Same as 1-4?....................................................... 9—12

Same as 5-8 ..................................................... 13—16-

Pause.

(On ninth beat of pause lower arras.)

Repeat Part I as Part III.

Pause.

Repeat Part II as Part IV.

Pause.

PART V.

1st Exercise—Left arm sidewise upward to ^ circle with turning head left... 1—2

Return............................................................... 3—4

Same right........................................................... 5—8

Repeat.............................................................. 9—16

2d Exercise—Bend knees to right angle with arms sidewise, as a position... 1—4

Toe stand with arms to	a circle overhead.......................... 5—8

First position...................................................... 9—12

Stand erect........................................................ 13—16

3rd Exercise—Side lunge left with arms slanting, left arm upward, as a

position....................................................... 1—4

Change lunge position, bend trunk sidewise left, right arm to ^ circle

overhead left arm in rear of trunk................................ 5—8

First position....................................................   9—12

Stand erect........................................................ 13—16

4th Exercise—Forward lunge left with arms forward upward, as a position	1—4

Bend trunk forward, right angle,	with % arm circle inward............ 5—8

First position...................................................... 9—12

Stand erect........................................................ 13—16

5th Exercise—Forward lunge right with arms forward upward, as a

position....................................................... 1—4

Twist trunk right, arms	sidewise............................... 5—8

First position...................................................... 9—12

Stand erect.......................................................  13—16

6th Exercise—Breathing exercise with raising and lowering arms sidewise

upward and downward, 8 counts to each movement................. 1—16

(To be concluded.)

ANNOUNCEMENT OF SUMMER SCHOOLS.

(Continued from former issues.)

The School of Education (Chicago University), formerly The Chicago Institute. Summer Term July 1st to August 9th. Department of Physical Culture, Director Carl J. Kroh.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-96-

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.)

—How Girls Pass Their Lives in France. The famous French authoress and -editor, Madame Blajic, whose queer pen-name is “Th. Bentzon,” has written a complete account of “A Girl’s Life in France,” which will soon be published in The Ladies’ Home Tournal. She emphasizes early baptism, careful religious and school instruction, implicit obedience, simplicity in dress, and short engagements as among the chief features of the lives of French girls.

—Physical Training in the School-Room, by Hans Ballin, Little Rock, Ark. Price $1.00. Published by the Arkansas Democrat Co., Little Rock, Ark. Mr. Hans Ballin, who is well-known to our readers, is just now publishing a new book on physical training in the school-room. From the announcement and the advance-sheet we infer that the book is intended lor the inexperienced teacher. In it are embodied 140 illustrations from life, besides a school-roofn chart embracing all the illustrations. The book is well provided with Kindergarten games and plays for the school-rooms. We shall review the book as sopn as it is out.

ATHLETICS.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—In the dual meet between Columbia and Pennsylvania the latter won by 88 points to 55.

—Harvard won a decisive victory over Columbia in their lacrosse series, outclassing their opponents both in team and stick work.—Harvard now meets Cornell for the inter-collegiate championship.

—Amherst easily outpointed Syracuse in their dual meet by a score of 70% points to 46%.

—Information comes from Boston that the projectors of the American Henley at New London have decided not to have any regatta this year. The time is too short to perfect arrangements and it is the intention to hold the first regatta in 1902. Harvard is in the scheme heart and soul; Yale is favorable and the . promoters of the plan believe other big rowing colleges will be represented.

—Harvard went down before Yale in their dual meet by a score of 47 to 57. It was a memorable contest, however, and the victory was only decided by the last event. Hargrane of Yale twice did “even time” in the hundred yards run. Teel also of old “Eli” broke the intercollegiate two mile record by nine seconds. New records were also made in the 220 yards dash, shot put, and 120 yards hurdle race.

—Waltyr J. Travis is the Metropolitan and National golf champion.

—Notre Dame won the Indiana State Meet defeating Purdue and Indiana by the scores of 65 to 38.35 respectively.

—Harvard landed the championship Mott Haven cup in the Intercollegiate contests with a total of 44 points. The other colleges finished as follows: Yale 30 5-6, Princeton 16 1-6, Cornell 15, Georgetown 10, Michigan 6%, Pennsylvania 5 5-6, New York University 5, Columbia 5, Bowdoin 4, Syracuse %.

—Oberlin completely outclassed Ohio State University in their dual meet by a score of 65 to 23.

—The 15th annual field meeting of the New England Intercollegiate Athletic Association resulted in a victory for Williams, with Amherst second, and Dartmouth third.

—Haverford (Pa.) College has the best college cricket team.

Digitized by L^OOQle