MIND AND BODY

Vol. 29	JUNE, 1922	No.	309

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Mhm.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Din Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E„ Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14^ 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 1879.

GAMES FOR GIRLS.

The subject of Games for Girls was interestingly ventilated from? several points of view at the Conference of Educational Associations in January at University College, London. The discussion was arranged by the Ling Association and was very well attended both by the general teaching profession and gymnasts. By a happy chance the four speakers followed each other in the right order so that discussion proceeded from the general psychological and biological value of games as preparation for life and citizenship, to the actual effects of long periods of strenuous games and gymnastics on particular groups of women, i. e.y the Dartford students during training, and married gymnastic teachers.

Press Notices. The speeches and discussion were widely quoted in the daily and weekly newspapers. On the whole it was a favorable Press* not excluding Punch for January nth, which published two poems on the subject, “To a Victorian Wife,” by O. S., and “Games for Girls or Thinking Impeyrially,” The first of these two poems referred to Dr. Reaney's suggestion that racial instincts, such as fighting, needed outlet, and if repressed led to “cattiness” in woman. The second poem was based on the answer to a question handed up to the platform as to “whether properly organized games delay (sexual) maturity—and, if so, is not this an argument in favor of games.” The answer was in the affirmative, on the grounds that if the early adolescent has her leisure time occupied by healthy outdoor recreation, she has no time (or mind) to be powder-ing her nose and working herself up to be sexually attractive. The

* Reprint from the “ Journal of Scientific Physical Training \ Birmingham, England.

Digitized by Google
98

speaker suggested that it was deplorable to see girls in their early teens “slobbering along the roads in their leisure time embraced in the arms of young men,” and that any outdoor sport or game, even “Aunt Sally” was better than conduct which aroused sex feelings in advance of the power to control them. “Slobbering” was certainly an unfortunate and in-elegant word to use (as some critics were quick to see), nevertheless it partly expresses the meaning intended, and a more exactly descriptive verb has not come to the writer’s mind since.

Football. At this meeting none of the speakers or audience advocated Football for girls, but there was general support for the argument that girls should not be prevented from playing any game because they were girls, but rather that it was necessary to find out by playing a game whether it could be modified or adapted to suit girls’ ability and taste.

I. The Biological Point of View.

BV JANE REANEY, D. SC.

Popularity of Games.—I have been asked to make a few suggestions for the discussion of this subject from the biological point of view, and it is an interesting fact that the games under consideration, hockey, cricket, netball, football, etc., although traces of them can be found as far back as the time of the Romans, have only really become popular during the last fifty or sixty years, and that girls have only been able to participate in them for about twenty-five or thirty years. Although this period is too short for us to get any valid statistics on the subject, it must be generally admitted that these games are as popular with girls as with boys. To explain this popularity it is necessary to review shortly a few facts in connection with the larger question of the function of play in human life.

Training of Inherited Tendencies.—Man shares with all the animals who pass through a period of immaturity, or youth, the capactiy for and the need to play. The most satisfactory theory to account for play in the animal world is the Practice Theory of Carl Gros, which suggests that play is the means by which the young animal has its inherited -tendencies trained for its future life and work by the action of intelligence. Thus the play of the kitten is the best preparation for the life of the adult cat. That this function is also true of human play can be seen when we consider the various types of play found at the different stages of the child’s development. These are the experimental play of the infant,' the imitative and imaginative play of the little child, the hunting and fighting games of a later age, the competitive games of a child of 9 to 10, and finally the co-operative games of adolescence, into which section can be placed the games under discussion to-day. There is no proto-type of the latter in the animal world, and it is an interesting fact that such games are only found in races which have reached a certain stage of development, and that it is only amongst the Anglo-Saxon races that they have attained their highest level. *

* The following three papers were delivered at a Conference of Educational Associations as arranged by the Ling Association.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
99

Outlet for Primitive Instincts.—This function of games would not alone, however, account for the very great increase in popularity during recent years. There is another function of equal if not greater importance. I suggest that they are a means of giving outlet to primitive instincts repressed in civilized life. A great deal has been heard during the last few years of the evils of repressing instincts, and it is probable that much of the social unrest of the present time is due to such repression. It is apt to be forgotten that man has been a civilized being for a comparatively short time, compared with the ages during which he lived in trees and caves. We are all the inheritors of the tendencies developed during those ages, and many of those tendencies have little outlet in civilized life. It is probable that our national games give a means for sublimating these tendencies and bringing them under control. If such outlet is not given, they may be forced into morbid channels; and this would be as true for the girl as for the boy.

Inherent Enjoyment of Games.—It is a well-known fact that games grip the imagination and produce intense enjoyment whatever the age of those taking part in them. During the past few years I have had occasion to teach a number of children’s games to grown-up people, primarily for use with their pupils, and I have constantly been struck by the rapidity with which they become intensely interested in the games for the games’ sake, and not for the pupils’ sake. If this audience were asked to play hide-and-seek in this building, I believe that in ten minutes we should all be absorbed in the game. An instance may be given of a certain paper-chase, in which a lady, always immaculate, never with a hair out of place, consented somewhat reluctantly to be one of the hares. She arrived home hatless, out of breath, with dress torn and face bleeding, thoroughly dishevelled—but she was not caught by the hounds. Such facts show that there is some deep biological need satisfied by these games.

Games Analyzed.—If we analyze a game such as hockey, we find it gives scope for so many primitive instincts, throwing and catching, chasing, hunting, stalking, etc. It makes use of so many primitive qualities, coordination of hand and eye, alertness, quickness of decision, self-control, balance, endurance; and in doing this it trains co-operation, a sense of fair-play and unselfishness. I maintain therefore that (i) these games are a biological necessity to the race, and that they have been evolved to give an outlet for primitive instincts repressed in civilized life; (2) that they owe the intensity of their appeal to this fact, and (3) because of it can be made the means of training some of the finest physical, mental and moral qualities so necessary to the race.

The (much-quoted) Catty Woman.—If these suggestions are accepted, it is unnecessary to state that the games are as needful to the girl as to the boy. The woman with no outlet for her primitive fighting instinct may become “catty” and shrewish—the girl who has no vent for her stalking and hunting instincts may become a premature flirt or show even more morbid developments. Modern research is bringing more and more to the front the fact that we must train the racial qualities in both sexes, and I maintain that from the biological standpoint games are as necessary to the girl as to the boy, and if entered into in moderation, can only do good. Excess in all things is harmful, and games played to

Digitized by t^ooQle
IOO

excess are alike injurious to boys, as to girls. The danger must certainly be avoided, as the very fascination of games may lead some girls to go too far. It is not difficult to avoid, however, and we have only to look round at the products of our modern girls’ schools to see that, even in the short period during which full participation in games has been allowed, the standard has improved, and there is already a closer approximation to the fine Greek type of youth, in which the sexual characteristics are not overaccentuated.

Motherhood and Fatherhood.—We certainly want girls to be good mothers as we want boys to be good fathers, but this end will best be attained by rearing individuals harmoniously developed, with fine bodies controlled by intelligent minds, with faculties alert and instincts unrepressed but under control of the intelligence. In the education which is to produce this type games are essential for both sexes. Whether girls will finally play the same games as boys, or evolve others, remains to be seen, but if they are given full scope for playing all games, the question will resolve itself. If any game is not suitable for girls, it will gradually be discarded or modified to suit girls’ special needs. Hockey has already passed through this stage. At present I believe there is no conclusive evidence to prove that any game attempted by girls is really bad for them. I am, however, open to correction on this point.

n. Facts About Games-Playiug Girls at Dartford.

BY MARGARET THACKRAH, M. D., F. R. C. P

In connection with the newspaper discussion on the subject of games for girls, I wish only to touch on the statements made to the effect that athletics conduce to sterility and difficult labor. So far as I have been able to discover, there is at present no evidence of any value whatever in favor of such statements. The causes of sterility and difficult labor ate so numerous and diverse that the only evidence worth having would be that of obstetricians and gynaecologists of very large experience, who would be able to give statistics of large numbers of cases, together with an equal number of carefully considered controls. So far as I know, such statistics are not at present forthcoming.

On a-priori grounds we might suppose that nature is not going to be put very seriously out of her stride by anything so simple and natural as running about in a field. Excess in anything is bad, but the amount of games and physical exercises which at present figure in the curriculum of training colleges and schools is not excessive, nor likely to produce any harmful effects later on. It is probable, however, that an amount of exercise, which might be considered moderate for a young unmarried girl, might be somewhat excessive for a married woman who was anxious to have children.

Athletic Hearts.—One hears a good deal said in a general kind of way about athletic and overstrained hearts. I have carefully examined the hearts of all the students at the Physical Training College at Dartford for the last five or six years, both on their entrance into college and at the end of each successive term, and in no instance have I found any ill-effect whatever. It is, however, important that strenuous physical work

Digitized by
IOI

should not be too soon resumed after any kind of febrile attack, such as rheumatism, tonsilitis or influenza, because in these conditions the heart may be affected. Such a case should be examined medically during convalescence, before a return is made to games or gymnastics.

With regard to the pelvic organs, I have found that in about one per cent of the students amenorrhoea occurs for the first term or two of their training, and occasionally for longer. Menstruation invariably returns when a less strenuous life is again led. The amenorrhoea is not accompanied by any signs or symptoms of ill-health, and I no not think it is of any significance. It is advisable, however, that violent games and gymnastics should be avoided for the first day or two, or three days, of menstruation, according to the subjective sensations of the girl herself. I should like to take this opportunity of saying that there seems to me to be a tendency both at training colleges and at schools to put too great a strain and stress upon the students. I mean stress in general, and do not at all mean that they play too many games. The period of adolescence is a very critical one, as is generally recognized. Mental, physical and emotional developments are in full swing, and it is that period of life when pressure and stress ought particularly to be avoided. With our present system of education, it is just that time when the greatest of all pressure is brought to bear. It is surely expedient, both from a professional and from a health point of view, that the work should be somewhat lessened.

III. The Fertility of Married Gymnastic Teachers.

BY E. ADAIR IMPEY.

The Indictment.—If strenuous field games are bad for girls, it may quite logically be argued that those girls who spend most time at them, and excel in their schools, should show the evil effects of games to a marked degree. Now the Colleges of Physical Education in England recruit their students chiefly from this very large group of games-playing girls, and the Press campaign in this country and America against games has consequently been focussed rather pointedly on the gymnastic teacher and the games mistress. The indictments made against us as a class have been numerous, sweeping and most depreciatory, and it has seemed to those of us arraigned against that they were insufficiently based on the evidence of facts. The accusations published by quite serious organs of the Press, such as The Lancet, have includeed the following:—

i. That gymnastic teachers despise and decry marriage, do not marry, or only drift into marriage “attracted by wealth or position/'

1. That they shirk the responsibility of child-bearing.

3.	That they bear children with great difficulty, or that their training makes them incapable of child-bearing.

4.	That the children of gymnasts are physically inferior to those of non-athletic mothers, and are all girls.

The Questionnaire.—The Ling Association felt these allegations to be very damaging, whether true or false, and that the actual state of things could only be deduced by obtaining direct evidence on a large enough

Digitized by LjOOQle
102

scale to be convincing. The best means of obtaining direct evidence seemed to be the sending out of a Questionnaire to married gymnastic teachers and the making of a “Fertility” study of the answers, as nearly as possible on the lines of the “Fertility of the Middle Classes,” lately published by Mr. Greenwood, of the Ministry of Health. The data for this latter study are based on the marriages of University women in one group, and their non-collegiate sisters in the other, and were collected by the Birth Rate Commission in 1914. These figures form the most reliable standard available both for comparison and discussion, as they refer to middle-class women only, and to the bread-earning women of the 20th century. Obviously comparison with the immense families of the leisured middle-class of the Victorian period, or with the working classes of to-day, or with the notably prolific unions of the thriftless and defective classes of any day, could lead to no useful conclusions.

Restrictions of fVar.—In discussing the figures which I have collected for the Ling Association, one essential difference between these and Mr. Greenwood’s must be borne in mind, viz., that the figures for gymnastic teachers cover the period of the Great War, while those for University and Non-Collegiates relate to the pre-war period only. This is a fundamental consideration, and affects the general population as well as my group in many ways that are difficult to evaluate at such short range. In the first place during the war-years, while the general marriage rate went up, the general birth-rate went down, and Great Britain at war all over the world meant the separation of husbands and wives for months, and even years, at a time. The restricting effects of war conditions on gymnastic marriages are made patent by the Questionnaire Schedules which show:—(1) a large number of young widows; (2) considerable gaps between the births of children in the same family, and (3) premature births and still-births claimed to be due to air raids, anxiety, travelling at unsuitable times from port to port, or camp to camp, after a husband, etc., etc.

In addition there are the adverse economic conditions of the post-war period, and the general impoverishment of the middle-classes, which, in many cases, have necessitated the gymnast remaining in remunerative occupation after marriage, and to a large extent, have precluded the desirability of immediately setting up a family in the old-fashioned way. These conditions undoubtedly transcend all pre-war conditions, and have resulted in the voluntary or involuntary restriction of fertility in the group of women under review, as, one can safely say, they have also done for the rest of the middle-class, had we but statistics to show it.

Fairness of Statistics.—Before referring to the statistics which are set out in chart form, the question naturally arises as to whether they may be believed or not. Do the figures approximate to the truth, or are they biased? do they, in fact, constitute a fair and adequate sample of the games-playing girl as wife and mother? and may the public form an opinion from them on the subject of Fertility in this relationship? As regards fairness every effort has been made to make them fair. In putting values to doubtful statements, the gymnast has never been given the benefit of the doubt. A few married gymnasts have written me saying they were no credit to the profession, and proposed not filling in the schedules, but in almost every case a second letter to them produced the full particulars.

Digitized by

Google
103

On the other hand, I have not felt free to write even a second letter to the numerous gymnasts who are known to have flourishing families, but who withheld their quota of evidence, either through lack of public spirit, over-domesticity, or because they thought the anti-games campaign too silly to warrant contradiction.

Adequacy of Sample.—The adequacy of the figures must be judged from the following data which have been obtained by the kind co-operation of the Principals of nine gymnastic colleges for women in Great Britain, or the secretaries to the respective old-student associations. The tenth college did not assist in the investigation. Altogether about 2,600 women gymnastic teachers have been trained in the colleges of Great Britain, but the statistics refer only to the 2,397 trained at the nine above-mentioned colleges. There are 644 known to be married, but 167 of these quondam teachers have either been married less than six months, or their addresses are not known. The remaining 477 gymnasts were communicated with and 223 replied, 185 persons returning completely filled-in schedules (24 enquiries were returned by the dead letter office.) This figure, 223-^477-24, corresponds to 46 per cent of the marriages available for investigation, or 34 per cent of the whole number married.

No. 1. The Marriage-Rate for University women, 1920 (Girton only), is 30 per cent, that for gymnasts 27 per cent, that for middle-class women generally is unknown. About a dozen years ago the gymnastic marriage-rate was 16 per cent, and although documentary evidence of this fact is not now available, it is safe to say that the marriage-rate is still rising, and in all probability already exceeds the rate for other secondary teachers.

No. 2. Childless Marriages.—The Collegiate group shows 21 per cent childless marriages. The Non-Collegiate group (/. e.y sisters and cousins of the Collegiates), 20 per cent, and the Gymnasts, 17 per cent. The proportion of marriages within this childless group which are of shorter duration than three-and-a-half years (i e., still very “young” marriages are quite likely to be fertile) is much higher in the gymnasts than in the other two groups. In fact, many existing pregnancies are notified on the schedules, which will have reduced the actual 17 per cent childless rate before many months have gone by.

Nos. 3, 4 and 5. The Mean Fertility (3) is a figure which must obvious y relate to (4) age at marriage and (5) duration of marriage.

Now 4 The Average Age at Marriage of the Collegiate group is 27.9; Non-Colleg:ates 26.8; and Gymnasts, 27.

(5)	The Mean Duration of Marriage is Collegiates, 8.0; Non-Collegiat-es, 9.9; and Gymnasts, 8.

(3) The Mean Fertility is, Collegiates, 1.97; Non-Collegiates, 2.15; and Gymnasts, 1.8. This figure (1.8) shows that gymnasts have actually fewer children (by some decimal points) than either of the other groups. Since their mean age-at-marriage corresponds roughly to the Non-Collegiate group, and their mean duration of marriage to the Collegiate group, they ought to fall somewhere between the two, and show a mean fertility of about 2—whereas it is actual y 1.7. In other words, compared with these two other groups of middle-class wromen, every ten married gymnasts ought to have 20 children between them, but they actua ly only have

Digitized by Google
104

*8, a discrepancy which is surely fully accounted for by the war and its 4economic ajter math.

No. 6. Fertile Union Only.—A calculation of the mean fertility of the fertile unions only gives figures corresponding to those in No. 5:—Colleg-iates, 2.5; Non-Collegiates, 2.7; Gymnasts, 2.1. To these, for sake of comparison, are added a late Victorian middle-class fertility figure of 5.6 for the Collegiate Parents, and a general population figure from Scottish census for 1911, 6.1 (Greenwood),

No. 7. Nursing Capacity in Percentages. The figures for three months or more complete breast feeding are Collegiates, 75 per cent; Non-Collegiates, 73 per cent; Gymnasts, 63 per cent. (370 children.)

Under three months or nil, Collegiates, 25 per cent, Non-Collegiates, 27 per cent; Gymnasts, 37 per cent. The poor figures in nursing power cannot be explained by the war, and are the surprise of the investigation. They are entirely contrary to expectation formed from personal knowledge x)f a very wide circle of friends. The good nursing mothers include two internationals and several territorial or county players.

No. 8. Premature Births (still-births and deaths under a week) per j,ooo marriages:—Collegiates, 83; Non-Collegiates, 65; Gymnasts, 80.

No. 9. Abortions, ratio of abortions to pregnancies:—Collegiates, 13 ?per cent; Non-Collegiates, 12 per cent; Gymnasts, 7 per cent; general ]population, 16 per cent. This low miscarriage rate for gymnasts accords with tradition in this respect. The figure for the general population is taken from Fairburn Text Book for Mid wives.

No. 10. Infant Mortality—rate per 1,000 born:—

Gymnasts (429 children born) for period covered by schedules,

i e.y 1896-1920........................................ 49	per	thousand

General population, England and Wales, for same period 122 per thousand

Durham County, 1915 .....................................150	per	thousand

Oxfordshire, 1915 ....................................... 74	per	thousand

No. 11. Health of Children of Gymnasts:—

Eighty-nine per cent of gymnasts' children enjoy good or rollicking health; 9 per cent have only fair health, while 2 per cent have bad health. <324 children.)

No. 12. Average Weight at Birth, etc., etc.:—

334 children of	gymnastic mothers .....................7lbs.	130ZS.

Average	British	Infant	(Newman) ......................61bs.	40ZS.

Average	British	Infant	(Eric Pritchard) ..............7lbs.	40ZS.

Average	British	Infant	(Truby King) ..................7lbs.	50ZS.

No. 13. Conditions of Child-Bearing (gymnasts only):—

{a) Pregnancy. Good and excellent, 86 per cent; medium, 10 per cent; bad, 4 per cent.

(b)	Labour. Very easy indeed, 10 per cent; normal, ordinary, 66 per •cent; severe or long, but under 24 hours, 20 per cent; difficult, 4 per cent. (382 labours.)

The difficult births include abnormal presentations, twins, haemorrhage, and very long labours.	,

(c)	Recovery, after Childbirth.—Good and excellent, 88 per cent; medium, 4 per cent; bad, 8 per cent.

Digitized by Google
105

SUMMARY.

The gymnastic teachers marriage-rate is 3 per cent below that of the Girton girl, but is still rising. Compared with University women and their non-University sisters (before the Great War), gymnasts (during and after the war) have .2 too few children per marriage. There are fewer sterile marriages, and a very low rate of abortions and infant deaths. As regards the sex of the children, the mean fertility is 1.8, and roughly speaking the 1 is a girl and the .8 a boy. To be more exact, there are 100 girls born to every 86 boys. The average baby of the gymnastic mother is half-a-pound heavier than the general average, and there is a very high rate of healthy children of all ages. A smaller number of gymnastic mothers nurse their babies well compared with the two other groups available for comparison, but the conditions of child-bearing are extremely good both for pregnancy and recovery, and the proportion of “difficult” labours (4 per cent) corresponds to that of the general population. It is a mistake to allow fear to operate in this connection.

The most remarable figure that the investigation has brought to light is that 23 per cent of all gymnastic marriages are contracted with men whose work lies abroad, in India, South Africa and the other Dominions. To seek a cause for this would, however, be out of the province of this paper. It may be questioned whether the fertility and health statistics placed before you cover a sufficiently large number of women to be of any statistical valu^, but they are a relatively large proportion of the women so sweepingly indicted, and at any rate refer to facts and not to fancies. I submit, therefore, that if the gymnastic mother is decadent, selfish, or shirks responsibility in marriage, the onus of proof still rests with the anti-games people.

IV. Some Views of the Mothers Who Were Formerly Gymnasts.

A large majority of the gymnastic mothers who replied to the Questionnaire are firmly convinced that field games and gymnastics did them good, made them more healthy, gave a keener interest in and a more cheerful outlook upon life. The statement is often repeated in the schedules that physical training enabled a particular person to overcome nervousness, to withstand fatigue, endure discomfort or pain. “The training made a strong woman of me”—“I was always delicate or anaemic till I went to College and have never suffered since”—is a piece of evidence that frequently occurs. (The general public is of course not aware that a certain number of gymnasts first entered College as patients, and only on becoming stronger have taken the full training. Again, the mental and physical attributes which enabled a girl to enter College are many and various, but the attribute which will keep her there is ability to teach, and ability to teach is not necessarily associated with a pony-like constitution.)

The insistence that team-games have a high value morally and in character-building is very marked, so far as the gymnastic mammas are concerned, and many point out the increased companionship with husbands and children that outdoor games make possible. Several put down their cheerful, unperturbed pregnancies to their physical training, and suggest a happy reaction on the unborn child; others again testify to the efficacy of the gradual adoption of a game after child-birth and suckling, in enabling the mother to recover her fitness and firm condition.

Digitized by booQle
ic6

A large number of gymnastic mothers attribute their unlimited activi" ty and freedom from discomfort during pregnancy to not wearing corsets, and to knowing how to move advantageously, what to eat and what to wear.

Menstruation.—Everyone who answers the particular question as to whether games do any good advocates their being played under proper supervision and within proper bounds. Opinion is definite that matches should not be played during the first two days of menstruation, and that this decision should not be left in the hands of girls themselves. Umpiring, which entails standing about the field without really exercising, may be more exhausting than actual play, and is by no means to be regarded as a “soft job,” and a concession to physiological disability. Matchplay otherwise is thought to be a strain only if super-added to overpressure at school or if it entail long journeys, or if there is inadequate provision for changing, lack of w. c. accommodation, and such like conditions which add to nervous fatigue or engender chill.

Two or three correspondents point out what is often overlooked, /. e.9 that although field-games are comparatively new to girls and women, vigorous bodily exercise is by no means new; horse-riding, for instance, has been an ordinary form of sport and locomotion for women from time immemorial, and no exercise is more vigorous or general than horse-riding.

A minority, but a courageous and determined minority, of teachers state their view that although there is not too much of any particular form of exercise at the Gymnastic Training Colleges, the sum of activities plus the severe mental study and the early anxieties of teaching, going on not for a week, but for twelve weeks at a time, and for two or three years, is a great drain on the strength of most young women. An overloaded curriculum during late (or early) adolescence may rob the woman of vital energy intended by Nature for expenditure at a later creative period. The actual demands made on the nervous reserve should be distinctly within the limits of the utmost possible for the average girl. The College curriculum should be considered more from the point of view of what is wise than what is possible.

V. Note on Fertility Article in Games for Girls.

Tables showing the number of children born, the age at marriage and the duration of marriage were sent to Mr. Major Greenwood (Ministry of Health); they were reduced by him and the statistics set out and various calculations of co-efficients of co-relations made. He says, “It appears that there is a slight but hardly significant difference between the observed fertilities of your sample and that of the collegiate women deduced from the Birth-rate Commission data. Although the duration of murriage is practically the same in both experiences and the age at marriage in the gymnastic sample lower than in the other data, the latter give a somewhat larger mean size of family. The difference, however, is not large—and it is consistent with the view that the custom of birth-control continues to extend, and that there is really no difference at all between the reproductive habits of ‘Physical Training’ women and other women of the middle classes. That you have here not an unrestricted but a ‘controlled’ fertility is quite certain. I think it is equally certain that no inferences respecting the physiological effect of physical training could be drawn.”
io7

HINTS FOR THE NON-SWIMMER.

BY EDWIN H. (“LARRY”) WOOD, INSTRUCTOR AND COACH OF SWIMMING, OREGON STATE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE.

We are approaching that time of year when,	so	the poet tells	us,

the	young man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts	of	love. And	this	is

the	season, too, in which the thoughts of the young	man—and	also	of

the	old man, middle-aged man, and, in fact, those	of	both sexes	and	of

all ages—turn to the pleasures of spring and summer. Not the least important among these is the anticipation of the visit to the seashore, lake, or other watering place, with the delights that only water can offer.

Truly, it is a season when all good—and also indifferent and bad— instructors of swimming should come to the aid of the “sinkeasys.”

The non-swimmer, desirous of learning to swim,, is confronted with two questions: whom shall he engage as a teacher, and what stroke shall he learn. To find a really competent instructor is not easy, since the vast majority of instructors—self-styled—essay to teach beginners without having had any experience in the competitive game, and with only an exceedingly hazy idea of the theory of instruction. This all-too-prevalent type follows a path-of-least-resistance policy; if the pupil does not take kindly to the best method of swimming, they will allow him to learn almost any stroke that will propel him through the water after a fashion. They are looking for quick, rather than permanent, results. It is due to this reason, more than to any other, that in the average crowd of bathers, fewer than five per cent are really skilled swimmers. Scarcely a half dozen are swimming alike.

The novice will do best to engage the services of a man who has been under the tutelage of a coach of a first-class school, college, or athletic club team, and who has profited by some experience as a competitor while a member of such teams. These instructors will usually be found much superior to the mere theorist, or to the instructor whose sole training in aquatics has been obtained at a school of physical education, where his training along this particular line likely has been comparatively superficial.* With the rapid growth of the popularity of aquatics, such men—and women, too—may be found, if a little time and care are used.

Then, the stroke. Women incline, in the large majority, to the underarm side stroke, a most inefficient one. Men, too, rather favor the side stroke, but generally raise the upper arm. This is not quite so inefficient as the underarm side stroke, but it is a poor one at best. If one desires to learn to swim, why not learn the best method?

Practically all recognized authorities on aquatics agree that the

Mr. Wood is the author of “Natatoriums, a discussion of their archi-tectual shortcomings,” “The free style turn in swi?nming,” “Fancy Diving" and other articles on allied subjects.

* We do not agree with Mr. Wood in his broad condemnation of teachers who have received their training in schools of physical education. Personally we can speak with the highest praise for many men and women who were so trained.—Editor.

Digitized by

Google
io8

Australian crawl, used alone, or with minor ramifications, is the best stroke for long and short distances. This stroke is used by ninety per cent of swimmers in the competitive game; and it is in the competitive game that strokes receive their acid test.

There are very definite and adequate reasons why the crawl is the most efficient stroke. Principal among them is this: the “recovery,” or negative part, of the stroke—corresponding to the lifting of oars from the water and the return to the position preparatory to the next pull— is done out of the water, just above, and parallel to its surface. Just as soon as the positive, or propelling, part of the stroke is finished, the swimmer raises his arm out of the water and swings it, clear of the water, into position for the next pull. The leg-thrash of the crawl is also the most effective used, generally speaking. This is done with the legs perfectly straight and close together, the kick being executed from the waist down, all knee-action being eliminated, and the scope of the kick being confined to from twelve to fourteen inches. This kick is executed on a vertical plane.

In strokes of the underarm and overarm side stroke type, the swimmer’s progress is hindered by the underwater recovery of the arms, and also by the recovery of the legs, after the wide kick, made on the horizontal plane, has been executed. All these negative, non-propelling movements are largely eliminated in the crawl; and it is this elimination that makes it, with various modifications, sometimes, the preferable stroke for beginner or champion.

While this article is not intended to be the theoretical part of a lesson in swimming, it might be well to mention something about the elements or component parts of the crawl stroke, so that the learner may be in a position to judge the ability of his prospective instructor. In this connection, then, let it be said that the beginner’s chief difficulty in learning to swim will be in mastering the proper method of breathing. In all strokes, the breath must be taken in through the mouth and must be exhaled through the nose. There is one simple method of learning this. Open the mouth wide; take in a breath rather quickly; close the mouth tightly; duck down under the water until the head is completely immersed; allow the breath to ooze out through the nose; and then return to the surface. This part of the water drill is most decidedly the most important part of the instruction of a beginner. If it is shirked, there is little likelihood of the pupil’s ever becoming even a fair swimmer. With the possible exception of short sprints in competitive swimming, the breath should be taken regularly with every stroke. The average swimmer frequently fails to do this. Watch the usual crowd of bathers and you will note that many of them take in a gulp of air, then bury their heads in the water, swim for six or seven or more strokes, and then raise their heads with a gasp. When the beginner has become accustomed to this breathing drill, he has mastered his fear of the water and has learned that the more he gives himself up to the water, the more the water will support him, just as Pascal discovered for us in the days when “crawl” was associated solely with insects and reptiles.

Since no article seems to be complete thesft days without at least one reference to the psychology of something or other, it may truth-

Digitized by Google
ic>9

fully be said that swimming is largely a matter of psychology. It is not so much the mastering and the co-ordination of the various sets of move-ments as telling one’s self the idea of the safety of the water. Practically everyone is, potentially, a swimmer; and the chief task of the instructor is to demonstrate the absolute safety and dependability of this element. This “ducking” drill is devised for just that purpose.

CONSTRUCTION WORK — ITS VALUE IN THE SUB-NORMAL

SCHOOL.

BY ANNA M. KORDSIEMON, DIRECTOR OF SPECIAL SCHOOLS, QUINCY, ILL.

The subnormal child, with his lack of initiative, needs much stimulation from without to arouse his interest and attract his attention.

In the healthy normal child there is a spontaneous interest in the things around him and he will adapt himself even in adverse environment. Psychopathic, retarded, and mentally deficient children need something to stimulate and develop the latent potentialities of mind and body. Sometimes the inert, apathetic child will show no inclination even for play and, depending on his own initiative, all activities fail to appeal to him. As the keynote to attention is interest, it follows that something must be presented to awaken the child’s interest, and from this point progress may be made in the direction of further development.

Construction work fofms an important part of the course in the special school, and much may be taught even a very backward child thru its use. The faculties of observation, association, discrimination, all are stimulated by means of the industrial work.

Much work in language and arithmetic may be accomplished in this way. Arithmetic, which is an almost insurmountable task when attempted in the abstract, may be presented through construction work, stories, and games. A square of cardboard may furnish many lessons the horizontal, vertical, parallel lines observed and measurements made teaching the correct use of the ruler. Fractional parts are studied, folding once, halves, again, fourths, etc., then equalities and comparisons of fractional parts—halves, fourths, sixteenths; finding the perimeter, diagonals, and angles. Multiplication tables and long and square measures may be studied in this way.

The great variety of objects—boxes, baskets, etc.— made from the cardboard afford wide range of imagination and association. Number stories in which objects are used are a help in the special school.

A market basket made of paper or cardboard may be the means of developing a story in which the fundamental principles of arithmetic are used. Not only toy money, but the various articles that may be made by the children and that are brought into use in “playing store” all lend interest to the game. The joy of making these objects, whether they be paper, cardboard, clay, raffia, reed, or wood, is in itself a valuable incentive to good work. The faculty of discrimination is stimulated and comparisons in sizes, shapes, and weights may be made, as well as the developing of the story that furnishes the concrete example.

The nature of the construction work must be determined by the par-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
IIO

ticular characteristics of the individual child. A child with very little co-ordinated movement must be given the very simplest kinds of paper, cardboard, or reed work. As he shows more motor control, more advanced work may be attempted. A fourteen-year-old girl who could not tie a shoe lace or hair ribbon and whose lack of motor control was so great that she could not use scissors or needle, was led by slow degrees to accomplish the several tasks, first threading a weaving needle, then a coarse darning needle and at last a coarse sewing needle)—a slow, laborious process, but a victory in the end. Seeing others doing the wrork and becoming ambitious to do what her schoolmates were doing, she gradually showed improvement in her work and a desire for more work. Girls delight in sewing, knitting, and crocheting.

Boys are usually very fond of bench work, basketry, rug making, and chair caning. To many boys chair caning becomes a profitable employment after school hours. A backward boy may thus become a useful member of his family. In all this handwork co-ordination of movement is necessary and defects are readily observed.

While the child’s sensory and motor functions are developing, there must follow an improvement in his intellectual ability. He learns to think while he is constructing the object, and his ability to construct will be an incentive to better work in other branches.

He is learning to do, not only with his hands, but with his mind. To the child who has encountered failure in the regular school work until he has become disheartened and has lost all interest in books, the industrial work is often a means of new awakening, furnishing him an occupation to which he may adjust himself. Stories, which take such an important place in child life, may be supplemented and illustrated through manual and constructive arts.

The “Boyhood of Hiawatha” with its music and charm, will be even more appreciated if the children make the wigwam, the cradle, the bow and arrows, the birds and beasts and, by the use of clay, even the little Hiawatha and the Old Nokomis. A sand-table with this display will give happiness for many days.

The Pilgrim stories afford unlimited opportunity to stimulate the imagination. The “Mayflower”, Pilgrim houses, furniture, and the crude farm implements may be constructed from wood and cardboard. The dress of the Pilgrims may be reproduced in the sewing lessons or paper craft.

Language and history lessons are combined, the memory is strength- -ened and a desire created for more work in a wider field. Many of the stories in classic literature that would be beyond the child’s attainment in reading must be presented orally and, if supplemented with construction work, make a lasting impression.

Stories from the lives of Washington and Lincoln, fables and fairy tales may not only be dramatized, but may be made doubly enjoyable through the construction work possible.

The study of industries and various occupations of people may be developed through industrial work. Supplemented with the sand-table, geography lessons are made interesting. Sentence building, travel talks, conversation, and vocabulary increase may all be developed through the use of construction work and objects.

Digitized by v^ooQle
Ill

As this work is oral, it affords excellent opportunity for correction of errors of speech. Sometimes a new game suggests itself and sometimes an original story is evolved.

Drawing, especially color work, is a source of great pleasure to these children, and many of the ideas in construction may be shown in the activities reproduced in graphic art.

In all this the process of association, which is of such great importance in mental action, is developed. Memory, which is largely dependent upon the power of association, is stimulated, and the happy thoughts of the day’s work may be retained.

Habits of neatness and accuracy are formed in construction work; accuracy is law and order in the process of doing, and the child sees that unless he strives for accuracy, his work will fall below that of his comrades.

Perception and concentration are necessary and the stimulation of these assist the slowly growing mind. Using the objects made as lesson subjects we work from the concrete into the abstract. Froebel’s idea of happiness through work is here exemplified. Definite, useful occupation brings with it happiness and a desire for further ability to work. The various activities tend to better intellectual development.

Happiness is not only essential to the life of the child, but it improves his intelligence. Here in his own little world the backward child is given the opportunity of bringing out the best that is in him.

Each for the joy of the doing,

And each in his separate star.

This makes the work in the special school interesting and enjoyable and the child works with little restraint—expression rather than repression.

Thrift and economy are taught in the use and consumption of materials employed. The useful articles made and taken home often give great pleasure to the child and enable him to feel that, after all, there is something for him to do. The making of toy furniture may lead to better and more useful work, and the building of bird houses may create a love for nature-study.

Sometimes the faculty of imitation, which is usually very marked in these children, may lead to good results. Habits of helpfulness and consideration for each other are encouraged and the aesthetic and moral senses may be developed to a great extent by means of construction work.

Sometimes physical defects which have been overlooked are discovered by the careful observer while the child is doing this work. He may note if the sensory organ, the nerve messengers, and the motor response are all working out in perfect unison, or if there is a lack of coordination.

To restless, nervous children and those inclined to chorea and a lack of emotional control, construction work may become the means of both physical and mental improvement.

A little quivering girl came up to me one morning and said, “I can’t write this morning; the letters won’t go right, and I don’t believe I want to read either.”

I said, “Would you like to take this reed basket and go out in the yard and work awhile sitting on the bench under a tree?” She took the

Digitized by L^ooQle
112

reed (this was work she liked to do) and sat out of doors until all the winkles were smoothed out and the trouble blown away. After a time she came back and was able to “make the letters go right.**

Frequent change of work is necessary as interest flags, and it may happen that one’s inventive sense is sorely taxed, but through observation and imagination new ideas present themselves.

It is a daily task of striving for better things, a leading on, sometimes very, very slowly, but always with the fullest sympathy and with the ideal a little ahead, with a never-failing optimism and a strong faith in things to be accomplished. Throughout, the whole process an attempt should be made to develop, as much as possible, all the latent faculties of mind; to eliminate faulty modes of action and careless habits, and to give to the individual child that particular help that shall make him grow physically and mentally and fit him for some useful work in the world.

If the results are slow in manifesting themselves, they are nevertheless worthy of approbation, and if the task seems too great, these words from Browning may be an inspiration to continued effort:

The common problem, yours, mine, everyoneks Is,—not to fancy what were fair in life Provided it could be, but finding first What may be,—then find how to make it fair Up to our means,—a very different thing.

RECREATION INSTITUTES FOR TEACHERS.

BY EDNAH FARRIER.

“Go ahead. Learn to play and learn to teach other folks to play right. More troublesome boys and girls will stay within law and order when they find something to do.**

It was Walter Camp addressing two hundred delegates from New Haven schools, churches, factories, and settlements, all of whom had commenced to learn the art of playing. The game instructor called for a tug-of-war. Twenty school teachers and twenty strapping youths from the Winchester factory divided ranks evenly, and it turned out a tie. Two lively ring games followed; then came the preliminary steps to an old folk dance and even stouter ones went at it with a will. When, red blood was tingling through unaccustomed veins an intermission was given. That completed the physical exercise part of the first “play evening**— the opening of a two weeks institute on recreation by workers of Community Service.

Next, the dramatic expert took the center of the stage.

“I want fifteen women volunteers for our dramatic skit,** she announced.

Whereupon volunteers came forward. They were instructed to depict a village sewing circle the members of which had become thoroughly disgusted with the town gossip-carrier.

They were asked to make their own plot, and to stage, extemporaneously, an indignation meeting of the sewing cricle.

After a hurried consultation fourteen of the party took their places on the stage. There entered the fifteenth, a prim, alert figure, depicting

Digitized by

Google
JI3

the village gossip. Her cool reception showed that the virtuous sewing circle wanted no trouble-maker to disturb them. But a few whispered words from the gossip and a shrug of her shoulders aroused the slumber-ing curiosity of the circle members. At once they forgot indignation and leaned forward for the story. But the gossip had to make a train, and broke off her narrative abruptly, whereupon the whole sewing-bee was adjourned without formalities so that the sewers could follow the gossip to the train and learn the rest of her story.

The little skit was over, but not the feeling of power. They had turned amateur actresses in one evening. Given a plot, an idea, they had lived it out. They wanted to try another. The same happened in turn with a group of men. The most awkward of them were transformed into players who forgot themselves.

The “set-up” or initial organization for recreation institutes such as the one held in New Haven by Community Service, sometimes takes three weeks, and sometimes longer. The people in the Community who stand behind the school usually take the initiative in letting their fellow townsmen know that there is being offered an unsurpassed chance for training in play leadership at the cost of a paltry registration fee. A small folder containing the necessary facts was used recently for this purpose in Boston. It wormed its way into factories of the city and suburbs; into churches and Sunday schools; into fraternal organizations, industrial unions, girls* clubs, boys* clubs, settlements, social centers and educational institutions. Over five hundred letters went out and newspaper notices brought in interested recruits from several corners of the “Hub.”

So that when school opened two hundred and thirty-three registered. From one Italian neighborhood of Boston came nine delegates who represented mothers* and girls* clubs. These representatives were of course anxious to take back to their constituents all of the games, social frills and stunts that they could possibly learn. Although the two hour sessions came five times a week, an average attendance of one hundred and forty each evening was maintained.

The more active part of the programs of these Community Service Recreation Institutes such as games and square dances usually cOme during the first hour. And the later part of the evening is reserved for pantomimes, musical activities, story play acting and spontaneous dramatics. Sometimes there is a short pointed talk on “Play as a Part of Education,** “The Development of Play for Different Ages,** and “The Psychology of Teaching Play to Other People.** At the end of the school each institute member who has maintained a certain attendance average is presented with an engraved certificate of graduation.

The “diploma** of such an institute held some time ago in the towns of North Hudson County, New Jersey, read as follows:

“In the belief that the highest ideals of Americanism lie in making possible the greatest happiness to the largest number of its citizens and that the instinct of play is one of the greatest factors toward that end, the North Hudson Community Service Play Institute was inaugurated to teach leadership of play in community life.*’

“In recognition of his fidelity to duty, his patriotic spirit in pledging his assistance in carrying back to his own community the spirit of service

Digitized by v^.ooQle
114

in play, this certificate is awarded to.............................. with	the

cordial appreciation of the North Hudson Community Service, the Mayor and City Officials of.............................New	Jersey.”

These certificates meant that the persons receiving them had received training fitting them to lead in the recreation movement in their own communities.

In even smaller places where people can not always reach out and grasp the good things which get to a large town or to a group of smaller towns a school of play may go. In a' western rural district there was held a one-day recreation institute for teachers who had come from one-room school houses. It was expected that for the first hours of this allday session, shyness would prevail especially among the demure little Sisters from a parochial school. But at the end of the morning unadulterated joy was expressed by shrieks of child-like glee on the part of people who were to all appearances grown up. When the time for distributing the simple recreation outfits came, there was a scramble among the sedate teachers to get all of the equipment possible for their own meagrely equipped school playgrounds.

Through such special institutes for teachers from rural districts, the state boards of education are in many instances facing the problem of play for the country child. These are held in central places, and draw their attendance from miles around. But no less seriously does the teacher begin to regard the art of recreation when she learns it in a more casual but no less thorough manner by means of a community play institute right in her own community. As a volunteer member of such an institute, she learns to play new games and in new ways for the sheer pleasure that is in it, as well as for the purpose of learning to pass on her new ideas to her pupils.

For all of us, going to school at some time in the past has been irksome. Perhaps it was because things were often forced into us much against our wills. We often could not understand where and how we could ever use them. Going to school to learn new pleasurable ways in which to spend one’s leisure, so that you may in turn teach them to others is different. You can see the reason. You thereby become a disciple of that play spirit which is a very real and wholly important part of this new age.

ADMIRAL BELIEVES BASKETBALL TRAINS FOR SERVICE ON

BRIDGE.

Admiral Henry B. Wilson, Superintendent of the Naval Academy, has a high opinion of basketball and attends every game at the Academy. “The game requires quick thought and quick action,” he said, “and these are the qualities needed by officers. Every one of our team will make good officers. We want these qualitites in the man on the bridge.”

An error which we regret very much appeared in last month’s issue when the “Bird Masque” was published. This pageant was credited to James B. Walter instead of Janet B. Walton. We are glad to make the correction at this time.

Digitized by CjOOQle
XI5

XTRACTS AND REPRINTS

FROM FOREIGN EDUCATION JOURNALS

BY GEORGE ALTMANN, NEWTON, MASS.

From The “Monthly for Gymnastics, Play and Sport” Berlin. (Trans-lated in substance.)

The New Belgian Law on Physical Training, provides, in part:

1.	Physical Training required in all schools, whether receiving national support or not.

2.	Young people not attending school, required to attend physical training classes of gymnastic societies.

3.	A Committee on Physical Training appointed in the Department of Science and Art, its duties to include general supervision and assistance in matters of physical training under these laws.

4.	Societies which have charge of the military training of the youth are to be under the supervision of the Department of National Defense.

5.	The Minister of National Defense and the Committee on Physical Training are to prepare an examination to be taken by youths upon reaching their nineteenth year.

6.	Communities of more than 5000 inhabitants are required to maintain a playground and a gymnasium, and if possible a swimming pool, these facilities to be thrown open to all school children of the community.

The National and Provincial Government will aid in financing the above mentioned institutions.—Vol. /, No. 12.

“Physical Exercises Which Directly Help the Community.”—G. Kalb, District Inspector of Schools, Berlin.

“Why not employ the children in our physical training classes in activities that directly benefit the school and community? Why not have them help to remove snow, dead leaves, papers, and the like from the school grounds and from nearby parks and walks, or saw, chop and pile the school fire wood, care for the school garden and like occupations? Every German boy and girl should be proud to help his school and community in this way. If approached properly and directed carefully, the children will take hold with enthusiasm and will be getting physical training which is truly “Work clothed in youthful pleasure.”—Vol. /, No. 12.

“Training of Leaders for Hiking Parties.”

The Minister of Science, Art, and Education has directed that all institutions preparing teachers of physical education train these teachers to serve as leaders of hiking parties. This form of recreation has become very popular with the result that a shortage of trained leaders has developed, hence this order.—Vol. /, No. 12.

“Obligatory Play Afternoon.”

Having received many communications to the effect that certain teachers have found it difficult to provide play facilities for their pupils, the Minister of Science, Art, and Education has issued n®tice to the following effect:

Attendance at these play afternoons is required, just as it is at physical
ii6

training classes.

The' district supervisor will assist in all cases brought to his attention, making the necessary arrangements to provide suitable play facilities.— Vol. i No. 12.

The German Gymnastic Association expresses the hope that the physical training colleges will soon make provisions for a thorough academic and practice course leading to the Doctor's degree in Physical Training. Authority to grant such degree is expected shortly from the national authorities.—Vol. 2, No. 2.

Acting upon the suggestion of The Minister of Science, Art and Education, a program for a daily physical training period was approved unanimously by the Commission of Education of Prussia. It is expected that this program will soon be put in operation.—Vol. 2> No. 2.

The Berlin Board of Trade has appropriated 600,000 marks to be expended for athletic fields, play spaces and park improvements in their city.— Vol. 2y No. 2.

The following figures showing the alarming increase in tuberculosis in children and youths under 20 years of age, in Saxony are from Prof.

W. Drigalski.

Pulmonary	All	forms	of

Year	Tuberculosis	Tuberculosis

1913	2.6	4.6%

1914	2.6	4.6

1915	2.9	5.2

1916	4.2	7.4

1917	6.7	10.3

1918	7.9	10.9

The author gives as the chief causes of the increase in disease shortage of houses—overcrowding,	unhygienic home conditions, lack of sun-

light and fresh air. The results have been a marked increase in infant mortality, and in contagious and congenital diseases. He emphasizes the importance of good food, and of physical training, especially that out of doors, as a means of prevention.— Vol. 2, No. 3.

The city of Mannheim has decided that instruction in swimming should be part of the child's schooling and has appropriated 100,000 marks to provide facilities. It proposes to follow the lead of Hanau, Offenbach and Oberhausen by making attendance at swimming classes compulsory.—Vol. 2> No. 3.

In response to the question “How much gymnasium floor space is available in Germany and how much should there be?" Dr. Diem makes the following statement:

There is now about .4 sq. ft. per person. There should be about three times this amount or 1.2 sq. ft. per inhabitant. Dr. Diem bases the latter figure on one required period of gymnasium work for school children and three optional periods a week for those 17 years and older, figuring that the following numbers would choose to attend gym classes three times a week—17—20 years, 70%. 20—30 years, 40%. 30—40 years, *S%.—Vol. 2,, No. 4.

German Festival of Gymnastics and Sports, 1923.

The Munich Sport Sheet proposes that the gymnastic festival scheduled for that city next year be enlarged so as to include contests in light

Digitized by LjOOQle
ll7

athletics, swimming, and possibly football. In this way a more comprehensive demonstration of worth-while physical training activities would be possible. Such a combined festival should serve to draw more closely together the enthusiasts of gymnastics and those of sport, and lead to better co-operation.—Vol.	No. 4.

GOLF—ANCIENT SPORT IS NOT SCOTCH.

It is quite a surprise to learn that golf, the royal and ancient game of the Scots, is not Scotch at all, but Dutch. The Highland laddies of auld lang syne imported their national game from the Lowland Dutchmen away back in the fourteenth century.

In Holland the game was called kolf. It differed from the present game of golf of course—principally, as posts were used instead of holes. The game was played by any number, either in parties or against each other, and the object of the contest was to hit the posts in the fewest number of strokes. The balls used were about the size of baseballs, made perfectly round and elastic, covered with soft leather, and sewed with fine wire. The clubs were from three to four feet long, with stiff shafts and heads of brass resembling very closely the modern putter. And the game was played on ice in the winter and turf in the summer.

There is nothing in the ancient annals to show, however, that the early Dutch and Flemish kolfers putted at holes. The Scotch put the holes in golf—including the nineteenth.

The game grew rapidly in Scotland and became so popular in the fifteenth century that parliament, on March 7, 1457, “decreeted and ordained that golf be utterly cryit doune, and nocht usit.” The game persisted, however, and about twenty years later the English parliament again ordained “that in na place of the realme there be usit golfe, fute-ball, or uther sik unprofitabill sportis.”

The game was coming on.

The government at that time was trying to popularize archery and legislated against all rival sports.

Ere long the king surrendered, and in 1503 we find him breaking his own law as though it were a modern amendment, and purchasing “golfe clubbis and ballis to play at the golfe with the Erie of Bothuile.”

Royalty has played the game more or less ever since. Mary Queen of Scots was one of the first woman players, and she was beheaded. Charles I, was the game’s first enthusiast—and they cut off his head also! And thousands have lost their heads over the game since!

In 1608 the present Royal Blackheath Golf Club was founded. The Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St. Andrews, still the golfing centre of

Digitized by CjOOQle
118

the world, was founded in 1754, and organized the first competition of any size the same year.

In 1848 the gutta percha ball was invented. Heretofore the ball had always been made of feathers compactly stuffed within a leather cover. It had served well, and was more lively than you would imagine. In fact, the first gutta balls could not be driven as far as the old “feather-ies.” However, it was discovered by observant golfers that the gutta balls showed a remarkable tendency to fly better after they had been subjected to a little battering with the irons. From this observation resulted the “nicking” process and the dimples and brambles of the present day.

The first names to live through their golfing achievements are those old champions of the fifties—Allan Robertson, Willie Park, and Tom Morris, who has been called “the father of golf.”

Thirty years ago golf was practically unknown in the United States. It has grown rapidly since—more rapidly than any other sport—unless it is the possible exception of baseball.

TENNIS PLAYERS LAUD STEEL RACQUETS INVENTED BY

LARNED.

The new steel-framed tennis racquet, invented by William A. Larned, former champion, received its first test in tournament play recently in the matches in Brooklyn between the Longwood Cricket Club and the Heights Casino. Both Watson Washburn and Dean Mathey of Heights Casino used them. They give every appearance of being a practical weapon. Washburn testified that they are susceptible to quicker manipulation than the racquets or wooden frame. Besides that, they will appeal to many players through their greater durability. According to Washburn, not only the frame itself, but the gut is likely to last longer than in the case of the traditional bat, and, of course, there can never be a question of warping. Although Washburn and Mathey wielded their new bats in a losing cause, they manipulated them with exceeding agility.

CONTINUES AFTER WINNING PRIZE; SETS NEW TRAPSHOOTING MARK.

What is believed to be a world’s record for an amateur shooter was recently made by Captain Thomas K. Lee. At the Alabama Gun Club he broke 96 targets in succession, standing at 23 yards. This mark was made in the first of a series of handicap shoots. A yardage trophy was offered for the best score from each mark, but Lee was the only contestant from the 23 yards. The event was at 50 targets, and when he broke the 50 straight he was requested by a number of those present to continue shooting until he missed. Charley Young, as a professional, broke 100 straight, from 23 yards some years ago in Peru, Ind.; but Lee’s recent feat is believed to be the best ever made by an amateur.

Digitized by CjOOQle
i J9

HYSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

the psychophysiology of aviation.—J. A. Lopez in Semana Medica, Buenos Aires, Oct. 31, 1918.	25.	No.	44,	reviews	some	of	the points

that have impressed him in his observation at the military aviation school. He says that every muscle in the body is worked in the process of flying, that is, during equilibration in the air. The muscular movements are gentle, but all the muscles are involved sooner or later in the flight.

the nutritive value of nuts—The food chemist accustomed to deal with edible products in terms of quantity and proportions—in calories and grams of protein, fat and carbohydrate—has long given to the various nuts a prominent place among concentrated foods. From his analytic standpoint they may even surpass such recognizedly valuable foods as meats, eggs and cereals in their concentration of nutrients* Although nuts and products made from them have been used by man the world over as adjuvants to his usual diet, they have only lately obtained a larger recognition in relation to the dietary. The failure to eat nuts more extensively is doubtless due in part, as Cajori* pointed out some time ago, to their reputation for indigestibility, and to the discomfort that may occur after eating them at the close of a heavy meal.

Scientific studies have not justified the reputation for the indigestibility of nuts that has become somewhat traditional. Experiments that were conducted by Cajori* at Yale emphazied anew what has long been contended by Jaffaf of California, namely that nuts are valuable foods, judged by their behavior in digestion and metabolism. They point out that if nuts are eaten properly and used in the diet as eggs, meat and other foods rich in protein are eaten, they behave quite as well in the body as do the ordinary staple articles of food. Particularly when nuts are finely comminuted by proper mastication, or are consumed in the finely divided form of nut pastes or nut “butters,” there can be no complaint about the proper utilization of the product. The question of texture, of the avoidance of hard, impermeable particles of any food substance concerns the culinary or physiologic manipulation of the material rather than its chemical make-up. In other words, it can usually be corrected by proper preparatory procedures; one need merely contrast raw almonds with almond “milk” by way of illustration.

But the nuts have something more than mere digestibility to recommend them. Their protein is, in general, of a superior quality. The production of good growth is a test for biologic “completeness” of a protein* In experiments just conducted at Yale Univeristy, CajoriJ has secured very satisfactory growth over long periods in animals on diets in which the almond, English walnut, filbert and pine nut, respectively, furnished the essential source of protein in the ration. These proteins afford the necessary nitrogenous complexes for the elaboration of milk in the same species. From a study of the relations of diet to milk production in

Digitized by
120

women, HooblerJJ pointed out, not long ago, that as a rule animal proteins are more efficient than vegetable proteins for the elaboration of human milk. However, nut proteins were an exception to this generalization in that diets containing almonds, English walnuts, pecans and peanut Gutter as a source of protein proved to be as suitable for milk production as diets that furnished protein from animal sources.

This is not the limit of commendation. Nowadays adequate nutrition is also discussed with reference to vitamins in the diet, since these dietary essentials apparently cannot be synthesized by the animal organism. According to Cajorit normal growth can be secured when rats are Fed an otherwise adequate diet containing the almond, English walnut, black walnut, Brazil nut, chestnut or pecan as the sole source of water-soluble vitamin. Animals that have declined on a diet devoid of water-soluble vitamin promptly recover when the almond, English walnut, filbert, hickory, pine nut, chestnut or pecan is introduced in the diet. These observations indicate that nuts are sources of abundant quantities of water-soluble (B) vitamin. Evidence of the sort here reviewed need not be assumed to justify propaganda for any exclusive system of diet. We do not argue for a race of nutarians or vegetarians or any other fad of the extremists. The latest information as to the nutritive virtues of commonly used nuts can only be welcomed, particularly by those who, like diabetics, rely on these food products, most of which are poor in digestible carbohydrates but rich in proteins and fats, to enlarge the variety of a limited regimen. Furthermore, the nuts are logical dietary supplements to many foods, like the cereals, roots, tubers and fruits. There's a reason, as we now have learned.—Editorial: The Journal of The Am. Assoc. Med., Oct. 3°> *92°'

* Cajori, F. A.: The Utilization of Some Nuts as Food, J. Nome Econom. io : 304 {July) 1918.

t Jaff*> Af. E.: Nutritional Investigations Among Fruitarians and Chinese, Bull. 107, U. S. Dept. Agric., Off. Exper. Stations, 1901; Further Investigations Among Fruitarians, Bull. 132, 1903.

t Cajoriy F. A.: Some Nutritive Properties of Nuts; Their Proteins and Content of Water-Soluble Vit amine, J. Biol. Chem. 43 : 383 {Sept.) 1920.

tt Hoobler, B. R.: Problems Connected with the Collection and Production of Human Milk, J. A. M. A. 69 : 421 {Aug. 11) 1917; The Effect on Human Milk Production of Diets Containing Various Forms and Quantities of Proteins, Am. J. Dis. Child. 14 : 105 {Aug.) 1917.

massage and exercise combined.—A Permanent Physical Culture Course for Men, Women and Children. Health Giving, Vitalizing, Prophylactic, Beautifying. A New System of the Characteristic Essentials of Gymnastic and Indian Yogis Concentrating Exercises Combined with Scientific Massage Movements, with 86 Illustrations and Deep Breathing Exercises. By Albrecht Jensen. Cloth. Price, $4 net. Pp. 93. New York: The Author, 1920.

What the “patent medicine" is to pharmacotherapy, “health cults" and “systems" are to nonpharmacal therapeutics. Jensen's book is of fthis type. “The Permanent Physical Culture Course for Men, Women •and Children—Health-Giving, Vitalizing, Prophylatic, Beautifying" is

Digitized by

Google
121

a combination of self-massage with active movements, with resulting sacrifice of some of the advantages of each. The massage manipulations described are chiefly effleurage (stroking) and tapotement (beating), while petrissage (kneading) does not enter into this “system” of physical culture, for the evident reason that autopetrissage is a difficult and tiresome procedure. Nor is friction brought into use, though both of these manipulations are of importance for obtaining the best results in various pathologic conditions amenable to massage treatment. Furthermore, the muscular relaxation indispensable for deep effects from massage is impossible, owing to the fact that the individual is in the standing posture. The soothing and relaxing effect obtainable from proper massage is, of course, also out of the question when the patient manipulates himself. From the exercises, on the other hand, one of the chief purposes of gymnastics—the development of useful co-ordinations—is taken away. As these massage exercises require concentration, they are unsuitable for purposes of recreation. Still, Jensen maintains that their combined application is “physical culture in its most scientific and perfected form.” Like other exponents of “systems,” he does not hesitate to make great promises. Thus, he states that a woman “by care, massage and exercises of the abdominal muscles, after having recovered from her accouchement, could regain her former figure and appearance;” that these exercises “will preserve youth and retard old age;” and so on. Though they may not do all that is claimed for them, the exercises described have their virtues. They will reduce fat persons and may build up thin ones. It has been said that massage is a good means of reducing obesity in the masseur. Hence, if an obese person could be induced to perform on himself the manipulations described by Jensen—and some of these would be physically impossible for a really fat person—he might accomplish the desired result.—Book Notices: The Journal Am. Med. Asossoc. Dec. //, 1920.

the rights of children.—How far the states have gone in modernizing their attitude toward the delinquent and the neglected child is shown by the Children's Bureau of the U. S. Department of Labor, in a bulletin entitled “A Summary of Juvenile Court Legislation in the United States.” Because of the differences in the structure of their judicial systems, the states have had to meet the problems by various methods of legislative attack. In every state, however, the attempt has been made through legislation to solve the difficult problems, involving the unfavorable conditions—domestic, social and economic—under which children are living and developing today. The summary embodies an analysis of the legislation in force at the beginning of 1919, with an appendix giving additional legislation and amendments enacted during 1919.

public health organization. — Professor Winslow of Yale, in an illuminating vice presidential address before the American Association for the Advancement of Science at St. Louis, forecast the future of the movement for greater accomplishment in the domain of public health by thus defining its scope:

Public health is the science and art of preventing disease, prolonging

Digitized by t^ooQle
122

life, and promoting physical health and efficiency through organized community efforts for the sanitation of the environment, the control of community infections, the education of the individual in principles of personal hygiene, the organization of medical and nursing service for the early diagnosis and preventive treatment of disease, and the develpoment of the social machinery which will insure to every individual in the community a standard of living adequate for the maintenance of health.

* Winslow, C. E. A.: The TJntilled Fields of Public Health, Science 5/ ; 23 {Jan. 9) 1920.

THE MUSCLES AND THE FLUID REGULATION OF THE BODY.—The excretion of water by the skin averages about a quart a day under the usual routine of living, and the sweat produced consists of more than 99 per cent of water. However, the amount of the latter leaving the body by perspiration varies within rather wide limits, depending essentially on the heat produced within and the temperature of the environment. In other words, the extent to which sweating occurs is determined mainly by the need for regulating the temperature of the body. The immediate source of the water poured out through the sweat glands is, of course, the blood. In ultimate analysis the comparatively large drafts on the circulating fluid of the body which may be made within rather brief periods of vigorous perspiration must be compensated for by movements of water from other tissues, unless they are promptly replaced through the channel of the alimentary tract from the fluid intake. At any rate, it is unlikely that a pronounced concentration or incipient dessication of the blood will be tolerated for any considerable time, as marked changes of this sort are usually occasion for undesirable responses on the part of the nervous tissue. Cohnheimf and his collaborators have observed a noteworthy decrease in hemoglobin and an increase in the serum proteins in the blood following vigorous muscular exercise that is attended with profuse perspiration.	The change in the concentration of the blood pigment may

amount to 10 per cent o'* more after the loss of 300 c. c. of sweat. Evidently the blood quickly becomes diluted with fluid to replace that lost by sweating, and there is frequently an overcompensation leading to an actual dilution, as exhibited by the diminished hemoglobin content. Return to normal soon ensues. The question has been raised as to whether this phenomenon is due to an “expulsion” of fluid into the blood as a result of the contractions of the muscles and is thus really independent of the process of sweating, or whether the perspiration is the primary act which leads to a subsequent transport of water from the muscular tissue to the depleted blood stream. That the latter is actually the case has been shown by CohnJ who ascertained the composition of both blood and muscles after sweating without exercise (in a hot air chamber) and

t Cohnheim, O.: Kreglinger and Kregliner: Ztschr. j. physiol. Chem. 1909. Gross and Kestner: Ztschr. f. Biol, go: i8gy 1919. t Cohn, EZtschr. J. Biol, go : 366, 1919.

Digitized by t^ooQle
123

after muscular exercise without visible perspiration. Only when sweat' was freely given off did the dilution of the blood occur, and only under this circumstance did the muscles show a detectable loss of water. It is important to realize that the muscular tissue represents a reservoir, so to speak, which helps to some extent to distribute water under critical conditions.—Current Comment: The Journal, Am. Med. Assoc. Dec. 1920.

health of English schoolchildren.—In its comment on the annual report for 1916 of Sir George Newman, president of the Board of Education, the British Medical Journal (Oct. 6, 1917), says that the war more than anything else has brought home to the public the conception of the child as a primary national asset, and quotes the president as saying that no investment and no national economy can compare in results with the care of the rising generation. According to the British Medical Journal's analysis of the report, “the records of 1916 show all too much ill health, disability and defect of mind and body. Uncleanliness, malnutrition and mental backwardness debar tens of thousands of children from reaping proper advantage from the educational system provided by the country. Disease takes even heavier toll of the six million children in attendance at school. Probably half the whole number need dental treatment, and not less than half a million need it urgently, while a further half million are so defective in eyesight as to be unable to take reasonable advantage of their lessons. Another quarter of a million are seriously handicapped by diseases of the ear, throat and lymphatic glands/’ It is believed that the situation is no better at present; but the only hope of bettering it, according to Sir George Newman, is in systematic and continuous attention. The machinery for this is already provided, but in some instances it is insufficiently applied, or it is misapplied, or it is ineffectual on account of failure to see its importance, or owing to a sense of false economy or even parsimony. In order to secure the full value of school medical service, there should be periodic direct medical and dental supervision and follow-up; undernourishment should be overcome; medical treatment should be made available for all; well ventilated or open air classrooms should be provided; daily, organized, appropriate physical exercise should be taken; children of school age should be employed for profit only under approved conditions, and school environment and means of education should in no instance exert unfavorable or injurious influence on the health, growth and development of the child.

The average dietary is more likely to be deficient in iron than in the other elements mentioned. The data indicate that milk and other dairy products supply the greatest percentage of calcium; vegetables and grain products, the greatest percentage of iron; and dairy and grain products, the greatest amount of phosphorus, and in each case at the lowest cost.— From an Editorial in “The Journal,” Am. Med. Assoc.

municipal hygiene.—Municipal hygiene has steadily enlarged its borders and the municipality is now assuming increased responsibility for the conditions under which the people as a whole live and work. Health

Digitized by

Google
124

and strength are incompatible with an unwholesome environment, and it is recognized that such matters as housing and town planning, or the supply of pure milk, affect the entire community and should not be left to the chance decision of individuals who may or may not have the best interests of their fellow citizens at heart.—J. State Med., July, 1920.

■ ...	,	    ,...n.. .......    ■	■	>■	nr..	 —	♦

Gymnasium and playgroun

FRED FOERTSCH, Pittsburg, Pa.

BASEBALL DRILL.

JOSEPH M. ULRICH, ROCHESTER, N. Y.

Music:	“General	Pershing	March.”	To	be	played	as	written.

Formation:	Column	of	front	ranks	of	four	in	open	order.

GROUP I.

Exercise /. (Batting.)

(a)	With bringing hands together in front of the body lower

trunk forward as though	touching the	plate with the	bat	1	- 2	. . . .	1	M.

(b)	Raise the trunk	and turn it	right with	raising	the	arms,

hands over right shoulder - 3- 4 ....................................... iM.

(c)	Lunge left sideward swinging both arms forward and to the

left - 5	- 6 ....................................................... 1	M.

(d)	Return to fundamental position -7-8 ........................ 1	M.

(e)	Repeat (a) - (d)	three times................................12	M.

Total ........................................................16	M.

Exercise 2. (Pitching.)

(a)	Bend arms, hands in front of chest as though holding the

ball - 1 - 2 .....................................................  1	M.

(b)	Raise the bent arms upward, hands over the head, with

raising the left leg forward - 3- 4................................ 1	M.

(c)	Lunge left forward, straighten the left arm forward, swing-

ing it downward and backward, at the same time executing a throwing movement right forward -5-6..................................... 1	M.

(d)	Return to fundamental position - 7- 8 ................... 1	M.

(e)	Repeat (a) - (d) three times ............................12	M.

Total ........................................................16	M.

Exercise j. (Catching behind the batter.)

(a)	Bend knees deep, forearms on the thighs, as if giving the

signal with the hands -1-2......................................... 1	M.

(b)	Jump to a side stride position, knees slightly bent, with

raising the arms forward preparing to receive the ball - 3 - 4..... 1	M.

(c)	Raise the bent right arm upward the hand over the head

Digitized by
125

and throw forward (return to pitcher) - 5- 6..................... 1

(d) Return to fundamental position - 7 - 8 ... .............. 1	M.

(e)	Repeat three times .....................................12	M.

Total ..........................................................16	M..

Exercise 4, (Divided order.)

(a)	File 2 face left and execute exercise 3 four times.

(b)	File 3 facing front execute exercise 1 four times.

(c)	File 4 face right and execute exercise 2 four times.

(d)	File 1 acts as umpire, as follows: jump to a side stride-stand hands on knees -1-4, raise right arm upward calling strike 5-6, jump to position 7 •- 8. All face front on the last two

counts ................................................................ 4	M-

The exercises are	repeated three times ..........................12	M.

Total ............................................................ 16

GROUP II.

Exercise /. (Fielding.)

(a) Place right foot obliquely right backward with kneeling right, hands together and near the floor pretending to field the

ball - 1 - 2 ...................................................... 1

(b)	Straighten to a stride stand, the greater part of the weight

over the right foot with raising right arm, right hand over right shoulder preparing to throw - 3 - 4 ................................ 1	M.

(c)	Transfer weight to left foot with throwing movement right,

swinging left arm downward and backward - 5- 6..................... 1	M.

(d)	Close right and lower arms - 7 - 8 ....................... 1	fyL

(e)	Repeat three times .......................................12

Total ........................................................16

Exercise 2. (Tagging the runner out.)

(a)	Toe stand left, raising right leg backward and raising arms

upward, (catching a high ball) -1-2 .............................. 1

(b)	Lunge right sideward swinging the arms downward and to

the right, hands near the floor, (tagging runner) - 3- 4.......... 1	NL

(c)	Straighten shifting weight to left foot and execute a throwing movement right -	5- 6........................................ 1	M*

(d)	Close right and lower arms - 7- 8 ....................... 1	M.

(e)	Repeat three	times......................................12	M.

Total .......................................................16	M.

Exercise 3. (Sliding.)

(a)	Jump to a side stride stand, slight turning and lowering of

the trunk to the left, arms raised sideward -1-2................. 1	M.

(b)	Facing left two steps forward - 3 - 4 - immediately sliding head first with reaching right forward - 5- 6................. 2	M.

(c)	Through the squat stand rise to a stand facing front - 7-8. 1 1VL

(d)	Repeat right, left and right ...........................12	M.

Total .......................................................16

Digitized by c^ooQle
126

JLxercise 4. (Divided order.)

(a)	Files 1 and 3 execute exercise 3 to the left and right (to-

ward and away from files 2 and 4) while files 2 and 4 execute exercise 2 twice ....................................................... 8	M.

(b)	Files 1 and 3 execute the tagging exercise twice to the left

while files 2 and 4 execute the sliding to the right and left....... 8	M.

Total ......................................................... 16	M.

Interlude.

Nine of the boys take the regular positions on the supposed baseball field, the fielders assuming a side stride stand with hands on knees while the pitcher and the catcher assume appropriate positions. All hold their positions ...........................................................2	M.

Note: The remaining boys stand in an appropriate rank formation .awaiting their turn to bat.

GROUP III.

A miniature baseball game.

The movements of pitching and catching the ball as well as batting at the ball are executed every 8 counts. The running of the bases, sliding and tagging the runner are executed in a similar number of counts. Fielding must also be included. A succession of these exercises may be arranged to represent the playing of a game. The final batter may finish the game with a “home run.” The class may finish by forming in front rank facing the audience.

PELOTA.

BY PERCY G. HOLMES, GUADALJARA, JALISCO MEXICO.

A game played in Mexico is known as “pelota” or “jai alia,” and is of Basque origin, being played in the region of France and Spain near to Biarritz on the Bay of 'Biscay since time immemorial; in fact, it is probably the oldest of all ball games, just as the Basque race are probably the only pre-Aryan and most ancient of peoples in Europe. The Basques are an uncommonly robust race, deep chested and powerfully built, though generally short in stature. As the game requires more than ordinary strength and endurance, it is only fit for persons of extraordinary strength and agility. Hence it is generally played only by professionals in Spain, France, Cuba, the Argentine and Mexico. These professionals earn from #400.00 up to as much as #1,500.00, pesos, per month, in salary, and they travel from country to country, being as well known to the “fans” as great base ball players are in your country.

The game is made the vehicle for betting and many thousands of pesos change hands.

It is probably the fastest ball game in the world, as well as being the most difficult to play well. The balls are specially made in Spain and are about the same size as a base-ball, but much harder and more

Digitized by
127

solid. The game is played by four players, two against two. On each opposing team there is a front player and a back player. The former is the more swift and agile man, while the latter is the more powerful of the two. Both wear on the right hand a leather glove onto which there is joined a wicker work basket. In the case of the front player, the basket is about 15 inches long and about half an inch wider than the diameter of the ball, while the basket of the back player is from 18 inches to 20 inches long and of the same width as the other basket. The ball is put into play by being bounced once on the ground by the left hand, ' and the front player, who has so bounced it, sweeps it into his basket, or *‘cesta” or “chistera” with his right hand, sending it against the front wall of the court, so as to rebound thereform within a space defined by two painted lines upon the court, generally distant from the front wall 20 feet and 35 feet, respectively. The opposing front, player catches the ball in his basket and returns it to the front wall. His stroke may be so hard as to send the ball (which traverses space like lightning) even as far as the back wall without once bouncing. It is swept into the basket of the opponent, who may perhaps dash the ball into an angle of the front and side walls, thus making It difficult and puzzling shot for the next player. Missing the ball, or failing to return it above a line, as high as a tennis net, marked on the front wall, counts one to the opponents, and the game consists of 30 points. No mere description such as this can give an adequate idea of the speed of the game, or of the astounding agility involved. It is, of course, a dangerous game, since the ball is so very compact, heavy and hard.

The court measures about 150 feet long by 30 feet wide. It is bounded by a front wall, a side wall and a back wall, all of solid masonry faced with concrete of special hardness, and all of these walls are 30 feet high on a proper court, so that the mere cost of the court is very high.

In addition, the balls, which are expensive, wear out rapidly, and so do the baskets, which cost $10.00 each. The game is, therefore, very costly, and this is one of the reasons why it is played mostly by professionals, drawing immense crowds.

I would not recommend pelota as a game for physical training, although it must be quite the quickest teacher of hand and eye. Professional pelota players, though such exceptionally strong men, generally go into a decline and suffer from pulmonary complaints, due largely to the excessive wrenching of the breast muscles with the heave of the shots, while serious accidents are not infrequent.

CONSTRUCTION AND USE OF SQUASH RAQUET COURTS.

BY WILLIAM H. GEER, DIRECTOR OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, HARVARD

UNIVERSITY.

One of the big problems confronting many school, college and Y. M. C. A., physical directors is the securing of ample facilities for indoor exercise and recreation. This situation arises most frequently in those institutions where a definite attempt is made to foster permanent interest in some type of physical activity. Individuals who take advantage of

Digitized by LiOOQle
128

the opportunity to indulge in such wholesome outdoor recreation as tennis, rowing, swimming or skating quite frequently have difficulty in finding an indoor game or sport that has a real appeal. In the prescribed physical training program ?t Harvard students are given a great deal of latitude in the election of their exercise. There has been little difficulty in organizing enough outdoor athletic activities to apply the principle of rather free election during the fall and spring seasons. The construction and use of squash racquet courts helped solve the problem for the indoor season. Facilities for the playing of squash racquets have given students an opportunity to elect a very desirable game during the winter months.

Requests for information about the construction and use of squash racquet courts have prompted the writing of this article. Suggestions received from various persons interested in the game have been freely used. Special mention should be made of constructive criticism received from Mr. F. W. Buxton, Chairman of the Squash Racquet Committee of the Boston Harvard Club, Mr. Harry Cowles, squash racquet expert at the Boston Harvard Club and coach of the University and Harvard Club squash racquet teams, and Mr. C. C. Peabody, former national squash racquet champion and present Massachusetts champion. Reprints of this article, as well as additional information regarding the game of squash racquets will be furnished upon request.

DIMENSIONS OF A SQUASH RACQUET COURT

The construction and use of squash racquet courts as an important part of the indoor exercise equipment at Harvard was somewhat of an experiment. The experience of the last three years, however, has shown that squash is the most popular indoor exercise at the University. The courts are used to capacity during all the afternoon periods. The demand for an opportunity to play the game far exceeds the present rather liberal equipment of fifteen courts. Men who wish to play during one of the afternoon half hour periods have to report at the Squash Court Building during the late morning hours in order to make reservation for a court. Six more courts are now being constructed at the University Squash Court Building. Funds to cover the cost of these additional courts are being provided by the Athletic Association.

Digitized by Google
129

The following points may be advanced in favor of squash racquets.

1.	Squash Racquets differs from most college indoor sports and games in that it has a strong appeal beyond student days.

2.	The game requires but simple equipment, a squash racquet bat (racquet) and a few balls.

3.	Those participating in the game can get a lot of exercise in a short space of time. From three to five games can be played in a single half hour period.

4.	The game appeals to all classes of college students, from the “dub” to the star athlete.

5.	Squash provides an unusual opportunity for the development of skill. There is always room for improvement. Middle aged men of experience in the private clubs in and about Boston frequently defeat more aggressive but less experienced college players.

6.	Squash Racquets is well adapted for intra as well as intercollegiate competition.

7.	The game can be played until late in life. It solves the indoor exercise problem of many business and professional men.

8.	In properly constructed courts the game can be played under conditions of almost ideal ventilation. Players can get the tonic effect of cool outside air because little or no heat is required.

CONSTRUCTION.

Most of the squash racquet courts that are used as part of the exercise facilities in colleges, Y. M. C. A. buildings, and private clubs have been constructed in some available area originally designed for other purposes. For that reason it has been somewhat difficult to have what might be called a standardized court. In any new construction, it is advisable, as far as is possible, to conform to the dimensions adopted by the United States Squash Racquets Association. A squash court should be a room 18' 6" wide, 32' long and 14' to 16' high. At the bottom of the front wall there should be a telltale. The sound of a ball striking the telltale lets the players know that the ball has been returned too low. The telltale is made of a piece of sheet metal as long as the court is wide, and i'i7" high. The upper part of the telltale should be nailed to a strip of wood that projects \yi” from the front wall. The surface of the back wall below the 6'6" line, the side walls, and the front wall above the telltale represent the playing areas. A strip of wire netting on a frame 2' wide should be fastened to the back wall just above the 6'6" line. In the construction of the back wall some economy will be effected if the wall above the 6'6" playing surface consists only of wire netting. In any case the upper part at least must be of wire netting if there is to be a gallery space. A door, placed in the middle of the back wall, should be hung flush with the playing surface. It should open inward.

The walls and floor of a squash court may be constructed of different kinds of material. In England, where the game originated, stone slabs closely joined together, or concrete are quite generally used. While some of the courts in private clubs in this country have been constructed of somewhat similar material, the majority of them are made of wood. This type of construction is more economical and, on the whole, seems to be
13°

fully as satisfactory for general use. In fact, many players prefer the wood construction. The material most commonly used for the walls, as well as the floor, is a good grade of matched flooring. The stock used for the floor and front wall should be 2 ^ wide. That used for the other walls may be J J4 wide. In the construction of the walls the boards for the playing surfaces should be vertical. The ceiling can be wire netting, wood or upson board, depending somewhat on the location of the courts.

All surfaces should be carefully finished before they are painted. The general color of a court should be white and the lines should be red. A service line must be painted across the front wall 6' from the floor. The upper two inches of the telltale should also be painted red. The line across the back wall should be 6'6" from the floor. A service court line should be painted on the floor 9'io" from the back wall. Half way from the two side walls a line should be drawn from the service court line to the back wall, thus making two service courts. Within each service court there should be a “service box.” Each “service box” is bounded by the service court line, the interesection of the side wall and the floor, and an arc, made with a 4/6" radius, extending from the service court line to the side wall.

Adequate ventilation is an ever present problem in connection with indoor exercise. Squash courts constructed along the side of a building can be supplied with an abundance of fresh air by opening the windows in the corridor leading to the courts. The ceiling of upper tier courts can be of wire netting. The ceiling of lower tier, courts as well as the ceiling of courts constructed underneath other rooms can be made of upson board. If the back wall above the 6'6" line in lower tier courts is made of wood, it will be necessary to provide for two or three openings above this line. An electric fan, placed in an opening above the door, provides a very satisfactory method of ventilation for such courts. It is also possible to plan the construction of the telltale so that it becomes a part of the general ventilation scheme. Openings in the top and front of the telltale can, in that case, connect directly with ventilation ducts.

Squash courts constructed on the top floor of a building have ample illumination for day light playing, provided there is a sky light. Single courts can either have a sky light or can be provided with windows along the upper part of the side walls. All courts require some definite provision for artificial light during the late afternoon hours of the winter season. The courts at Harvard are lighted by two 300 watt lamps fastened to the ceiling. Each lamp is hung about 8' from the back wall and about 4'6'' from the side wall. Reflectors add to the efficiency of such a lighting system. All lights should be protected with wire cages.

SQUASH RACQUET RULES.*

1. All matches shall be the best three out of five games.

2. The game shall be “fifteen up;” the first server to be decided by the spin of the racquet.

3.	If the server loses a point, he shall also lose the hand (serve).

* As adopted by the United States Squash Racquet Association, No-vembery 1915

Digitized by ^ooQle
Every point won by either player shall add one ace (point) to his score.-

4.	At “thirteen all” the outplayer may set to three or five, (game to be won by 16 or 18 points instead of 15 points) and at “fourteen all” to three, provided this be done before another ball is served. If set be refused at “thirteen all” game cannot be set at “fourteen all.”

5.	The ball shall be served alternately (from) right and left (service boxes), beginning on which ever side the server elects.

6.	The server must stand with at least one foot in the “service box” and serve the ball over, but not touching the line on the front wall and returning within but not touching the line of the proper service court, e., the court opposite the server, otherwise it is a fault. Serving two faults, missing the ball, the ball striking the telltale or any part of the court before reaching the front wall, or hitting the back wall on the volley in or above the netting, is a hand out.

7. A service called a fault may not be played.

8. After one fault has been called, if a let occurs during the play of the second service, the fault does not stand, and the server may serve again twice.

9.	A ball, to be fair, must be struck before or on the first bound, and be returned to the front wall on the volley above the telltale, and must not touch the ceiling, the galleries, or any wood, iron or netting not of the court itself, before or after reaching the front wall.

10.	Until a ball has been touched or bounded twice it may be struck at any number of times.

11.	Only the player to whom a ball is served may return it.

12. A ball touching either player before the second bound loses an ace for the player touched.

13.	If a ball, after being struck and before touching the front wall, hit the striker's adversary's racquet, or any part of his body, it is a let, and shall be played over.

14.	Every flayer must keep out of his adversary's way. If, in the opinion of the referee, the striker is interfered with in any way by his opponent, either when striking the ball or in his effort to reach same, he must call the point a let and not wait for an appeal. When a “hinder” appears to the referee to be deliberate or intentional, the player making the “hinder” shall lose one ace from his score and also the hand if he be the server.

15. If a ball hit in or above the netting on the back wall on the volley, it counts against the striker; if it hit in or above the netting after touching the floor, it counts a let.

16.	If a ball breaks during play the point shall count as a let and be played over.

17.	At any time when not in actual play a new ball may be substituted by mutual consent of contestants or by appeal to referee.

18.	The referee's decision on all questions referred to him shall be final. No appeal can be made on the service.

HINTS ON THE PLAYING OF SQUASH.

1.	Face the side wall when making a stroke.

2.	Keep your eye on the ball. Teach yourself to follow both the ball and your opponent.

Digitized by LjOOQie
132

3- Keep on your toes at all times.

4.	In executing the average fore hand stroke have left foot forward; in the back hand stroke have right foot forward.

5.	Have weight on forward foot.

6.	Avoid a long swing of the racquet before hitting the ball.

7.	Do not turn racquet as you hit the ball.

8.	Do not advance too close to the ball. Take advantage of the length of the racquet handle.

9.	Strike the ball on its downward stroke.

10.	Get set in a good position before executing a stroke.

11.	Do not turn in your attempt to return a ball bounding off the back wall on the service. Back away.

12.	Keep out of your opponent’s way.

13.	The beginner should remember that squash racquets has a good many points in common with handball and tennis.

14.	Individuals interested in the adoption of squash racquets should arrange for an occasional demonstration game.

A COMBINATION DRILL FOR LADIES AND ACTIVES. Given By The Buffalo Tumverein At The Chicago Turnfest.

BY WILLIAM ZABEL AND RICHARD HEINRICH.

Music: Mazurka ($4) Time.

LADIES—SWIMMING EXERCISES.

GROUP I.

Exercise /.

a)	Arm movements of the breast stroke—four times ........... 1-12

b)	Bend knees half-deep	and	raise	arms sideward ...........13-15

Straighten knees and bend trunk forward with raising and lowering heels and moving arms obliquely fore-downward, thru upward,

{palms together) ................................................16-18

(front dive)

Return movements ............................................19-24

Repeat all ..................................................25-48

Exercise 2.

a)	Arm movements of the back stroke—four times.............. 1-12

b)	Bend knees half deep and raise arms sideward.............13-15

Straighten knees and bend upper trunk, with moving arms upward and grasping hands, (palms	forward) ........................16-18

(back dive)

Return movements	.......................................19-24

Repeat all .............................................  25-48

Exercise j.

a)	Arm movements of the side stroke to the left - four times .. 1-12

b)	Bend knees half deep and raise arms sideward .........*3-15

Straighten knees and bend trunk left sideward with moving the

left arm upward and the	right downward .......................16-18

Digitized by LjOoq le
*33

(side dive)

Return movements ................................................19-24

Repeat all Right ............................................25-48*

Exercise 4,

a)	Arm movements of over-arm stroke, six times ................. 1-12

b)	Step left forward and raise arms forward (palms down)....	13

Close right to left and move arms sideward (palms forward),

with bending upper trunk ........................................I4-"15*

(swan dive)

Place left foot obliquely backward inward, move hands in front of chest, b) (elbows bent, palms together) and straighten arms

upward with a whole (4-4) turn left..................................16-18

(cork-screw dive)

Repeat counts 13-15 by lowering arms forward and stepping

backward left .......................................................19-21

Lower arms ......................................................22-24

Repeat all ......................................................25-48

group 11.

Exercise 5.

Face left and three little running steps forward (beginning left).	1-3

Jump forward, closing right to left, and bend knees half deep

with raising arms sideward............................................ 4-6

Straighten knees and bend trunk forward with raising and lowering heels, and moving arms obliquely fore-downward thru upward,

(palms together) ..................................................... 7-9

Straighten trunk with moving arms fore-upward and side-downward .................................................................10-12

Repeat all, three times, (square left) ..........................13-48

Exercise 6.

Face left about while running three steps forward (first two are

forward and the third is backward) ................................... 1-3

Close heels with right foot, and bend knees half-deep with

raising arms sideward ................................................ 4-6

Straighten knees and bend upper trunk with moving arms upward, and grasping hands, (palms forward) ............................. 7-9

Straighten	trunk	and lower	arms side-downward ..................10-12

Repeat all	- three times........................................13-48

Exercise 7.

Beginning left, six little leaping steps left sideward, crossing right in rear, and execute the arm movements of the side stroke left,

three times......................................................

Leaping left sideward, lower trunk left sideward, with raising the right leg sideward and stretching the left arm upward, and the

right arm downward (balance stand left) .............................. 7-9

Close heels with straightening trunk and lowering left arm side-

downward ............................................................10-12

Repeat all	right,	left and right...............................13-48-

Exercise 8.

As Exercise 5, counts 1-3 ......................................  1-3.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
134

Jump forward, closing right to left and bend trunk forward with raising and lowering heels and moving arms obliquely fore-

downward thru upward (palms together) .............................. 4-6

Straighten trunk, and move arms sideward (palms forward),

with bending upper trunk ........................................... 7-9

Straighten upper trunk and lower arms .........................10-12

Repeat all, three times, (square left) ........................13-48

Note:	Every three counts equal to 1 Measure (Mazurka Time.)

Forty-eight counts (1 Exercise) equals 16 Measures. Eight Exercises, equals 128 Measures.

ACTIVES—TENNIS DRILL.

GROUP I.

(Hand Apparatus - Tennis Racket. The handle is always held in the right hand, with the frame resting in the left hand for the starting position.)

Exercise /.

a) Place left foot forward, swing left arm obliquely fore-up-

ward, (palm up); right arm fore-upward and slightly backward, turning trunk slightly to the right, (looking up at the left hand) . .	1-3

Lunge left forward, swing left arm fore-downward and backward,

and right forward.................................................... 4-6

Return movements ............................................... 7-12

b) Lunge right forward, swing left arm backward and right obliquely fore-downward (turn wrist	inward) ...........................13-15

Jump upward (close right to left), lower left arm and swing

right downward (on the left side) and	upward .......................16-18

Return movements ...............................................19-24

Repeat all .....................................................25-48

Exercise 2.

a)	As Exercise 1, counts 1-3, .................................. 1-3

Lunge left forward, swing left arm fore-downward and backward, and right backward and forward	(knuckles down) ................. 4-6

Return movements ............................................... 7-12

b)	As Exercise 1, counts 16-18, (jumping upward, right arm

swings left side-upward ............................................13-15

As Exercise 1, counts 13-15 ....................................16-18

Return movements ...............................................19-24

Repeat all .....................................................25-48

Exercise J.

a)	As Exercise 1, counts	1-3 ............................... 1-3

Lunge obliquely back-outward, swing left arm downward and

backward, and right over the left shoulder (turning the wrist inward). Turn trunk 1-8 turn left .................................. 4-6

Return movements ........................................... 7-12

b)	Lunge right sideward, swing left arm sideward, right sideward thru upward, and bend trunk right, (right palm forward) ....13-15

Change knee bending, swing left arm backward, right to left

side thru upward, and bend trunk left ..........................16-18

Return movements ...........................................19-24

Repeat all .................................................25-48

Digitized by CaOOQle
*35

Exercise 4.

As Exercise 1, counts 1-3................................................1—	3

Lunge with left foot obliquely right fore-outward, almost kneeling on right knee; swing left arm fore-downward and backward, and right backward and obliquely fore-downward and outward (palm

forward) ......................................................... 4-6

Return movements ........................................... 7-12

As Exercise 1 (b) counts 13-15..............................13-15

One-half turn left to a balance stand left (right leg back), left arm sideward (palm down) and the right downward (on the left

aide) and upward (palm forward) .................................16-18

Return movements (1-2 turn right) ..........................19-24

Repeat all .................................................25-48

Exercise 5.

Face left and three little running steps forward (beginning left). 1-3

Repeat Exercise 1 (b) from 13 to 18 ................................ 4-9

Lower right arm (racket) to starting position......................10-12

Repeat all, three times, (square left) ...........................13-48

Exercise 6.

Three running steps backward, (beginning left) ................. 1-3

Repeat Exercise 1 (b) 16-18 by lowering left arm and swinging

right left side-upward .............................................. 4-6

Repeat Exercise 1 (b) counts 13-15, but lunge right backward, left arm backward and right arm swinging left side-downward to the

forward position .................................................... 7-9

Close right to left and arms lower to starting position .......10-12

Repeat by taking the running steps forward and the lunge forward right ..........................................................13-24

Repeat all - backward and forward .............................25-48

Exercise 7.

Face left and three running steps forward (beginning left)......	1-3

Repeat Exercise 3 (b) counts 13-15 (lunging right sideward),

and counts 16-18 (change knee bending) ................................ 4-9

Close right to left, (by facing right), straighten left knee,

straighten trunk, and arms move to starting position .................10-12

Repeat all by facing right, beginning with left foot, and facing

left on 10th count ...................................................13-24

Repeat all ..................................................... 25-48

Exercise 8.

As Exercise 5, counts 1-3 ....................................... 1-3

As Exercise 1, (b) 13-15 ........................................ 4~6

As Exercise 4, counts 16-18, (with one-half turn left to a balance stand, left arm sideward, and right upward) ...................... 7-9

One-half turn right on the ball of the left foot, closing right to

left, and lower arms to starting position ...........................10-12

Repeat all, three times, (square left) .........................13-48

Note:	Every	three	counts	equal	to 1 Measure (Mazurka Time).

Forty-eight counts (1 Exercise) equals 16 Measures. Eight Exercises, equals 128 Measures.

Digitized by Cjooole
136

N OTES AND COMMENT^

BOOK REVIEWS.

“education in health”, edited by E. George Payne, Ph. D. 253 pages, by 8 inches, illustrated. Published by Lyons and Carnahan, Chicago and New York.

The book was written by members of the faculty of Harris Teachers College, St. Louis. Its purpose is the presentation of a complete program. in health education; a program that makes the development of health habits, practises, knowledge, ideals and attitudes a matter of school routine. The book shows how every subject taught in school can be made to function in education in health. With an awakening to the importance of co-ordinating all school subjects there will come a demand for a book showing how this may be done in health education. The present book will be an excellent demonstration of a successful way in which this has been done.

EFFICIENCY OF PALMES APPARATUS FOR DETERMINING

DUST IN AIR.

In connection with improvement of condition relating to the health of workers in the mining and metallurgical industries, the Bureau of Mines has co-operated with the U. S. Public Health Service in determining the amount of injurious dust suspended in the atmosphere. The three methods for dust determination most commonly used are: (1) Washing out the dust from a measured flow of air with a water spray, as in the Palmer apparatus. (2) Filtering out the dust from a measured flow of air with a water soluble granular medium, as in the sugar tube method. (3) Forcing a definite volume of air at high velocity through a small orifice against a coated glass plate to which the particles adhere so that they may be counted subsequently with the aid of a microscope. The Hill dust counter and the Konimeter depend on this principle. None of these methods is entirely satisfactory and all of them fail to include all the finer particles which are, when inhaled, the most injurious.

A critical study of the efficiency of these methods with respect to very fine particles seems very important especially as new means for making this study are now available in the methods developed for testing the effectiveness of gas masks and other protective devices against poisonous and irritating smokes.

The Palmer apparatus is completely built into a portable case. The washer consists of a large pear-shaped glass bulb with a "U” about 1 in. in diameter at the bottom; one side of the “U” is open to the air. Pure water to the amount of 40 cu. cm. is charged into it for a test; this a-mount causes the level in each arm of the “U” to rise % in. above the point of separation. Air is drawn through the water by means of a small blower, operated by a direct-connected motor using power from lighting

Digitized by v^ooQle
137

circuits. The rate of flow of the air is measured by a pitot tube and an inclined gauge, the scale being graduated in cubic feet per minute, ranging up to 6. The rate of flow is controlled by means of a sliding disc which closes the outlet from the blower.

To test the Palmer dust sampler, the pear-shaped glass bulb, which is the essential part, was removed from the case and connected into an apparatus for measuring its efficiency. Two methods of testing were employed. The first, was based on optical comparison of the light (Tyndall effect) from suspended matter in the streams of incoming and outgoing air; tobacco smoke and air suspended silica dust were used as testing mediums. The second method, was based on weighing the matter, which passed the washer, by catching it in the small light tube of a laboratory Cottrell precipitator and determining its gain in weight.

RESULTS OBTAINED.

The tests made in this manner showed that the Palmer apparatus removed not more than 13% of tobacco smoke from air, measured by the method based on light reflection. By the same method of measurement, silica dust, air floated and then filtered through cotton wool so that it was very finely divided, was removed to the extent of 30% when the suspension passed at the rate of 4 cu. ft. per minute,—and 20% at the rate of 3 cu. ft. per minute. On a weight basis, as determined with the Cottrell precipitator, 45% of the silica dust was removed by the Palmer apparatus at flow of 4 cu. ft. per minute. On a numerical basis, the efficiency must be considerably lower than the 30% efficiency found by the optical tests.—S. N. Katz, E. S. Longfellow and A. C. Fieldner before the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers.

OFFICIATING.

BY PHILIP G. LEWIS*.

Athletic competition is a recognized extra-curricular activity in the regular school life of the student. In order safely and sanely to carry out this important work, those in charge of schools carefully select the men into whose hands they give administrative power, i. e., the “officials.” It is therefore extremely important that the officials prepare and equip themselves for the duties which they may be called upon to perform.

The principal qualifications for a good official are: a quick, keen, intelligent mind, capable of grasping the finer points of play and competition. Instant recognition of violations and infractions of rules as they occur; backbone enough to enforce the penalties applicable thereto, also the enforcement of the rules in both letter and spirit. An official must be physically and mentally fit and agile, with a clear undisturbed mind, not irritable or fatigXied. He must be pleasant, courteous and firm, inspiring confidence by his quick judgment in all situations, especially when they are unusually complicated.

* Mr. Lewis is President of the Philadelphia Board of Approved Basket Ball Officials; member of the Central Board of Football Officials; supervisor of Physical Training Philadelphia Public Schools.

Digitized by Google
*3*

An official should always be open to suggestions, he should give in formation cheerfully, but never tolerate back talk, impudence or unsportsmanlike onduct of any kind. The general atmosphere surrounding the contest should be a reflection of his influence. He should have a thorough knowledge of the rules and should attend interpretive games and meetings, and associate himself with organizations promoting efficient officiating. The rules should be so indelibly fixed in his mind that reference to a rule book should be exceptional (the carrying of a rule book on the field of competition is a confession of lack of knowledge of the rules and an indication of inefficiency.) The official must be quick to observe the application of ground rules and other unusual conditions and environments connected with the contest. He must appreciate responsibility and authority, carry them with the greatest dignity possible and realize at all times the importance of the contest to the competitors. The players, coaches and their followers are anxious to win. The official should be neat and clean, setting an example for the competitors. His uniform should be as near neutral as possible so as not to conflict with the uniforms of the participants.

In accepting an appointment the official ente-s into a contract, either verbally or in writing. He obligates himself to serve in a certain capacity for a stipulated sum of money, in other words he sells his services for so much money, in consequence of which he must give in return the very best that is in him every minute of the contest. He obligates himself to appear at a certain time to do a certain job, therefore he must be prompt, ready to work at least fifteen minutes before the scheduled starting time, fully prepared and equipped in every detail. Should the weather or other conditions indicate a possibility of being held up, allow plenty of time for delays, in case of illness or other unforeseen accidents or occurrences—telephone or telegraph at once—do not wait, bear in mind that everything depends upon your appearance. Never be in a hurry to leave unless you have notified those in charge ahead of time. Do not permit yourself to be placed in a position to have to borrow shoes, clothes,, whistle, etc. You are paid for appearing equipped to do your duty.

The score, how much time to play and such matters should not interest the official. He should confine his attention and energy to the job,—officiating. The scorers and timers are selected with as much care as the other officials and all should show by actions a complete willingness to co-operate in every detail. The official-in-chief should make those working under his direction feel that he trusts them implicitly and has absolute confidence in their ability.

The official should equip himself to meet every condition which might arise. He should carry several whistles, or horns of different tones. In football where there are several officials, each should be equipped with a different sounding signal. This will avoid any confusion and a farsighted official will have this in mind when packing his bag. It the duty of the official-in-charge to take care of this situation. Timers must be provided with signals which can be heard above any other noise which might occur, such as cheering and rooting.

The official should be provided with the same facilities as the visiting: team and ,have a dressing room apart from the contestants. This is par-

Digitized by

Google
*39

ticularly true in basketball, football and baseball. In basketball he' should never officiate with bare legs or arms. His uniform’s neu rality is more important in this game than in any other. A gray shirt, dark trousers (creased) black tie and rubber sole shoes are suggested. White is too easily taken for the bare arms or legs of contestants. The official should be absolutely loyal to every contestant: that is, he should never coach or suggest. He should not converse with coaches, captains or players before, during or after a contest except on matters pertaining to the contest, and then only in the presence of one of the opponents. He should not tolerate any intimidation of any kind; should such occur the matter should be reported to the headmaster, president, principal or person in charge of the institution in question and a report sent to the head of the officials’ body of which the official is a member. The majority of officials are not so much interested in the fee as they are in advancement of sport and the pleasure derived from the contact with athletes and competition. It is a pleasure to officiate in all but a few cases. This is due to the high standard of sportsmanship maintained at the colleges, schools, etc., and the high ideals instilled into the players by their coaches. Players and coaches make errors, so do officials, but the errors by players and coaches are far more numerous than by the officials. How much more right has a player or coach to “roast” the official than the official has to “roast” the player or coach? Coaches and players who^ have absolute respect for the officials have the respect of their followers and of each other.

Officiating offers wonderful opportunities for character building.. Athletic competition is the greatest influence on character, the official is the leader in the contest, therefore, officials, your influence upon the young and growing boy and young man is of vital importance. Are you performing your duties with the highest degree of efficiency and are you as careful of your charges as you would be if they were your own boys?

THE PROGRESS OF HYGIENE*

Beginning with the present volume, (Vol. VI), both the name and the nature of The American Journal of School Hygiene undergo a change-In the five years of the old American Journal’s existence it has striven to be a medium for the publication of articles, both scientific and practic-al, which might raise the general level of the knowledge and practice of educational hygiene in America. It believes that while not completely successful in realizing its aims in this respect the results which it has been able to achieve have not been wholly unsatisfactory.. The experiences of these five years, however, have impressed one fact very strongly upon those who have been most interested in the Journal. Briefly, it is his: any general interest in educational hygiene as a subject of scientific inquiry in this country is lacking, notwithstanding the vigorous efforts in many quarters of the educational world to popularize the subject and preach its importance.

* Reprint of an editorial in the recen‘ issue of “The School Hygiene Review.”

Digitized by L^ooQle
140

Such being the case workers in the field have not been eager to write mpon the subject, and what investigations of a scientific nature they .may have undertaken have been, in most cases, unavailable. A careful survey of the educational journals published in the United States will fail to reveal more than a handful of significant studies made in this field during the past decade. There are, it is true, considerable numbers ^of articles of a general nature, preaching the gospel of health for school .children and striving to spread its evangel, but of such articles there comes to be very soon a surfeit.

The American Journal of School Hygiene, finding it a rare experience -indeed to receive a manuscript of real scientific merit, has reached the point where it refuses longer to accept any at all. It has not, however, lost faith in the ultimate efficacy of the gospel of health to save the world. Indeed, it believes it can better be a missionary to that gospel if it ceases striving to be a scientific organ for general articles of a mediocre nature and becomes instead an organ designed to be of practical .assistance and inspiration to health workers in general, and in particular to those local school authorities who are endeavoring to introduce hygiene into the curriculum as a bona fide subject of serious study, and to those teachers who are expected to make hygiene interesting and profitable to the children under their charge. It is our belief that the study of hygiene should be given at least equal dignity in the schoolroom with any other curricular subject, as represented by point of time devoted to it, confidence in its importance and ideals in teaching it.

To the achievement of this aim, The School Hygiene Review is re--dedicated. It hereby invites all teachers and health workers who are .evolving interesting methods, or who know of worth while projects in Lygiene being undertaken, or who have any other information or suggestions which they owe it to themselves to make available for others, to place such helpful and encouraging matters at the disposal of the Review, which will be glad to pass them on through the medium of its columns.

The rate on a single subscription must remain for the present at the -old figure: $2.00 per year. We are venturing, however, to quote on orders for ten or more copies, mailed to the same address, a special club rate -•of $1.00 per year, in the hope that school departments and groups of teachers will find it worth their while to subscribe in this way.

Last year the state of Iowa, among other bills introduced into the Legislature, passed one and rejected another of special significance to health education. The former bill, which succeeded in getting enacted into law, raised the annual appropriation for the investigation of tuberculosis in cattle from $100,000 per year to $250,000.

The other bill, which failed of enactment provided for an increase of the annual $5,000 appropriated for the investigation of tuberculosis in human beings to $10,000. This striking example of the relative emphasis placed upon the health of animals and the health of human beings leads the Educational Review to exclaim that “we are still very primitive.” But Iowa, as the Review hastens to add, is not the only state that sees things in false perspective, for many other states rejected bills which provided rfor compulsory physical education, nursing, etc. Iowa was referred to

Digitized by

Google
I4I

merely because she chances to offer a striking illustration of the primitive--ness of man.

NEW ILLUSTRATED LECTURES.

“Child Welfare-Everybody’s Business,” “Makers of American Ideals,*” and “Warfare or Welfare,** are the titles of three illustrated lectures just announced by the National Child Welfare Association, 70 Fifth Avenue^ New York City. The lectures are illustrated by fifty colored lantern slides and are for the use of schools, clubs, parent-teacher associations,, churches and community organizations, either as special features of regular programs or as complete programs for special meetings.

“Child Welfare - Every body *s Business** points out that the most effective child welfare endeavors can be promoted in any community, by the simple device of cultivating the normal child’s natural inclinations-and interests. “Makers of American Ideals** is designed to help young and old alike to realize their debt to the makers of American ideals, and is expected to be especially useful to teachers of history and civics, as well as in general patriotic programs. “Warfare or Welfare,** written for' adult audiences, is a frank appeal for more generous official and civilian support for educational and public health activities, with a graphic demonstration of results achieved. The lectures are available by rental or* purchase.

PHYSICAL CULTURE WEEK.

Note—Many of the readers of “Mind and Body** may have received' the circular letter sent out by Mr. William Muldoon asking the recipient to send a statement to Mr. Muldoon in favor of a “National Physical Culture Week.** Mr. Ernst A. Weier, who will be remembered by our' readers as the writer of a splendid article on the Chicago festival of the American Gymnastic Union, has written Mr. Muldoon a letter that will be certain to interest all teachers of physical education. We were givem permission to publish this letter in full.—Editor.

Cincinnati, Ohio, March- 30, 1922

Mr. William Muldoon,

Chairman of Committee National Physical Culture Week,

New York, N. Y.

Dear Sir:

Your letter of March 15, relating to a National Physical Culture' Week, was received and I thank you for including me in your list of correspondents.

While your letter does not specifically state in what manner your Committee intends to bring the value of physical culture to the attention of the whole country, I fully and emphatically endorse your purpose

In glancing over the roster of your Committee, however, I find but few names, the owners of which are actively engaged in Physical Education of the Masses. Nevertheless, we appreciate all of them as friends of the cause. Especially there is not one name representative of the American Gymnastic Union, without which organization, a National

Digitized by LjOOQle
I42

^demonstration of the values of Physical Culture will be rather limited.

As you know, of course, the American Gymnastic Union has been for more than seventy years, the ardent promoter of real Physical Culture, that is: a rational training of mind and body of the masses,—in the United States. To the efforts of this organization is due the particular system of Athletics and Gymnastics as practiced in our National Naval and Military Academies, in our Universities, Colleges and many Public Schools.

This promoting of Physical Culture by the American Gymnastic Union (or, should I rather say: the Turners) was done entirely without the blare of trumpets or the glare of fire-works. The means of promoting were simple and modest,—in my personal opinion entirely too modest. 'They were confined to practical demonstration.

Only a few days ago, such a demonstration was given here by the ^oldest Turner Society in the U. S., and witnessed by 4,000 people. The ^exhibition showed not only physical stamina, intelligent physical self-control denoting mental alertness, but also a clear conception of aesthetics. There were hundreds of participants, men, women and children, from 6 years to 70 years of age. It created genuine enthusiasm for the cause. This particular society has done such work continuously for seventy-three years.

Here in Cincinnati the efforts of the Turners have always found an appreciated support by the press, the result of which is evident in the -satisfactory standing of Physical Education in the curriculum of our Public Schools. Our city University, all our High Schools and most of the other Schools have fine equipment for Physical Education, and an efficient corps of gymnastic instructors.

But this support of the press is neither always nor everywhere given to Physical Culture. In fact, there is evidence of remarkable lassitude of the press in this direction. Of course, most of the papers approve of Physical Culture, but few give it the intelligent and thorough discussion which the importance of the subject demands.

A case in evidence was the National Gymnastic Festival of the Turners in Chicago, June 1921. As a purely gymnastic demonstration of the value of physical training, nothing better or more conclusive has ever been shown in the U. S. There were- over 3,000 participants (no children) all coming from the offices, stores and workshops in every part of the United States, not one professional athlete among them. The Festival lasted four days, but Chicago knew little about it, simply because the press passed it over with a few lines. Consequently the cause of Physical Education—an important factor in our National life—is the loser.

You mention the recent communication of General Pershing in which he reminds us that the physical standard of the young men accepted for service in the U. S. Army, was far below what might be expected of a nation holding so many athletic honors. Unfortunately, it is not the Nation, but a few individual members of the nation who hold athletic honors. I am far from deprecating athletic prowess of any kind, and I do not underrate the value of the example of Championships. But as compared with real physical culture of our entire citizenry, such Championships are but incidents.

Digitized by Google
*43

While physical training is a very important factor in nationa defense, its mission is far greater. Our boys fought pretty well (even if under the physical standard), and they proved to the world that the citizen-soldier fighting for a principle, is ever the peer of the trained soldier fighting for the interest of a crown.

The most important factor of Physical Culture affects the civic life and well-being of our citizens and our nation, and in that line our argument must be made.

The world is growing better! All of us, even the humblest worker, work less hours and have more leisure time than we had fifty years ago. Labor-saving machinery has banished hard physical labor in many, many instances. Apparently we all could take life much easier than we could fifty years ago. But—hold on! The shorter hours and the easier labor have brought with them a strenuosity in our activities unknown fifty years ago. Everyone of us expends today in his daily life, more nervous energy than ever before. Many of us go to the very extremes in using up the nervous surplus, and at the end of our day’s work, we think we are too tired to replenish the little stock of our vitality.

The consequences of this prodigal use of nervous energy are manifest everywhere. It is nothing unusual that men of forty-five to fifty years (practically the prime of life) are nervous wrecks. Insomnia, nervous debility, neuritis, sciatica, the whole gamut of nervous disorders is omnipresent.

But it seems, all of us Americans like the strenuosity of our daily tasks, and as we do not like to give them up, plain common sense should tell us that we must by all means, strengthen our nervous system, replenish the exhausted energy and husband it in every way possible.

Physical Culture is the most promising aid—in fact a sure aid—in our dilemma. But first of all we must understand what “Physical Culture” really is. Buying a pair of dumbbells or Indian Clubs, and poking holes in the air in the morning and at bedtime is not Physical Culture. 99 44-100 per cent of all dumbbells find after a week, a resting place under the bed, are then carefully dusted every morning by friend wife, who after a month, deposists them in the ash can to save labor.

Making funny motions with body, arms and legs to the tune of a Talking Machine is not Physical Culture. Some call it a “nuisance.”

Physical Culture means a rational care-taking of the body, for the purpose of building physical stamina, by stimulating the growth of new tissues and promoting the elimination of waste matter. It further means the strengthening and developing of the radio-activity of the nervous system, and the constant replenishment of the nerve power. Life is motion, motion is strength, strength is health, and health assures the enjoyment of life. That is the circle in which Physical Culture moves, as conceived by the American Gymnastic Union—the Turners. The influence of complete physical health upon the mental condition of a person needs no elucidation. It is conducive of clearer and self-reliant thinking, and a clear-thinking, self-reliant citizenry is the backbone of any nation.

Physical Culture begins with the first bath of the new-born baby. The proper care of the epidermis and the derma are all-important and /orm the foundation of all future health.

Digitized by CjOOQle
144

The derma is the radio-station of the human body. Imbedded in it are the thousands of nerve strands, functioning similarly to the Antennaer These Antennae of the nervous system collect the force which pulsates the heart, motorizes the lungs—in fact, inspires the normal action of all organs of the human body. A neglect of the derma spells the beginning of retrogradation and final decay. Harmonic activity of the nervous system with the muscular organs is necessary for the better and longer enjoyment of life.

Much more can be said of Physical Culture during early child lifer If, for instance, fond parents would only display more common sense and a little patience to see baby walk, instead of prematurely “teaching” it to walk, then the recent, very attractive styles of short skirts would not have revealed to mere man so many sparsely developed ankles and pigeon toed, knock-kneed and bow-legged limbs among the prettiest girls. And many of our men would not sag in the knees with every step they take.

During the school life of the child, Physical Culture is again the balance wheel for the rational development of mind and body. It is gratifying, that this truth finds more and more adherents in the United States—but much, very much, remains still to be done. If a National Culture Week will help to drive this truth home to parents everywhere, its work will not be in vain.

But Physical Culture must not cease with the physical education that may be imparted during school life. School and college boys and girls are still in the process of building and storing up nervous energy. But the grown-ups in the offices and workshops are at present expending more of this vital force than they can accumulate without physical culture.

My observation in life has been that the individual pursuit of Physical Culture is not very effective. At best it is a single-track proposition. Moreover, it soon becomes monotonous and a sort of labor.

Man, after all, is an animal of collect ve habits and preferments. That is why Physical Culture, if pursued in groups or classes, becomes at once a source of great pleasure and enjoyment. Under the guidance of an efficient class leader (or instructor) it becomes diversified and visibly beneficent. The perfect physical relaxation following really effective physical exercises, inspires mental animation and exhilaration, especially if the class consists of men or women, whose widsom is neither dry in the mouth nor wet behind the eais.

Therefore, let every adult join an efficient Turnverein, Athletic Club or other Gymnastic Society and take personal part in its activities. There is the Fountain of Youth!

And now, Mr. Muldoon, I should ask your pardon for infl cting this lengthy epistle upon you, but then, you desired a frank expression of my opinion. With best wishes for success.

Sincerely yours,

Ern>t A. Weier

6294 Kincaid Ave.,

Pleasant Ridge,

Cincinnati, Ohio.