MIND AND BODY

Vol. 32	MAY, 1925	No.	319

FVBU8BSO BT MXVD AMD BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MI UK.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lakt City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial eomnunications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phils. Subscription payments should bt made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered ms seeoud-eUss m niter Oetober 14, /p/d, Mi thi postoffiee Mi New Ulm, hiinnesotMy under the Act of Mureh 3, 1879,

♦-------------------------------

Qriginal articles and reprint^

♦-------------------------------

AIMS AND TESTS*

William A. Stecher, Philadelphia.

Physical education in a school system with nearly 300,000 pupils presents special problems that must be solved if worthwhile results are to accrue.

The conditions confronting an administrator of physical education in a large city vary all the way from schools that have practically no yard space, no play rooms nor gymnasiums, and of class room teachers with the old academic interests and type of mind, to schools of the most modem type, and to teachers vitally interested in growing and developing human beings.

To meet these diverse conditions a system of physical education should be simple so as to be workable even under bad conditions. Next, its elements should be of such interest to the pupils that even if presented under bad conditions they will produce some worthwhile results.

'Eastern Section, American Physical Education Association Convention at Rochester, N. Y., April 4, 1925.

Digitized by VjOOQLv.
530

Third, the work should be of a type that makes it possible to check up results. This is necessary, not only to see if progress is made from year to year, but also to be able to see where extra help is needed so that maximum results may be accomplished.

Fourth, the elements used should be able to create a strong desire to take part in them at all opportune times, thereby increasing the time devoted to muscular exercise.

Lastly, the methods used should aim to correlate all the schools’ efforts to produce efficient pupils.

In the course of time the following system of physical education was evolved in our Elementary Schools. I should state here that the problems in the lower schools are greater, more intricate and more difficult to solve than those in the higher schools.

Our two main divisions of work are termed: Curricular Activities and Extra-Curricular Activities. The first are obligatory; the second are optional. Both, however, are an essential part of our system.

The Curricular Activities are of three types:

First, a Free Exercise Drill consisting primarily of vigorous trunk exercises. There is a drill for grades 1, 2, and 3, another for grades 4, 5, and 6, and a third for grades 7 and 8.

Second, age-accomplishments in running, in jumping, in throwing, and in a modified form of climbing, consisting of chinning and knee-raising.

Third, vigorous prescribed games for each half grade.

For pupils that cannot take part in the obligatory 'exercises we have what is termed “individual work,” prescribed by the family physician or by the school medical inspector. A special card and circular has been designed for this purpose that in most cases secures the co-operation of the family physician. Meeting modified requirements means a passing mark for pupils taking individual work.

The Extra-Curricular Activities embrace the following eight types of work:

First. Afterschool Play. This is an extension of the regular physical training work. At present it is conducted in the yards of 50 schools. Its object is to give all pupils an opportunity to take part in organized muscular work. Paid, specially trained teachers are in charge of the play. In many additional schoolyards less highly organized play takes place under volunteer leaders. Our aim is ultimately to have paid teachers in charge of afterschool play in every available schoolyard.

Second, Local Field Days and Play Days. As a rule these local functions are so arranged that all pupils can take part in them. Last year we had 92 such days with 94,671 participants.

Third, Four Sectional Meets. In these meets large teams of boys and girls from different sections of the city compete in the prescribed fundamental activities of running, jumping, and throwing.

Last year 2900 pupils took part in these meets.

Fourth, Indoor and Outdoor Meets. These meets are for the physically more advanced pupils. The contents of most meets

Digitized by
631

are the standard track and field events. Swimming and diving always occupy at least two meets. Last year we had four such meets with 2600 participants.

Fifth, A City Wide Field Day. This embraces team contests in standard games, exhibition drills and dances. Last year 45 schools with 5000 pupils took part in this field day.

Sixth, League Games. These league activities are for the physically superior boys and girls. There are leagues for the standard games suitable for younger pupils. Last year we had 16 leagues with 900 participants.

(It may be of interest to know that our Grammar Schools Athletic League was organized in 1900.)

Seventh, Athletic Ability Tests. As described above, our obligatory work consists of age-requirements in the four fundamental physical activities. Following the precedents in other types of school work these age-requirements are set at a performance level that should make it possible for seventy per cent of normal pupils of each age to pass. The stimulus to have those that pass continue to strive for higher achievements was found in our athletic ability tests.

There are three such tests. As soon as a pupil under 13 years of age has passed all of his age-requirements, he is entitled to take test number one. This test consists of four events. The performances are equal to those of pupils of 15 years of age. Who passes test number one may, provided he is under 17 years of age, try to pass test number two. The requirements for test two equal those of the 17 year level. If test two is passed, test number three follows with a performance level of 19 years.

Appropriate cards are presented to those who pass each test. These cards state what each test consists of. They are presented to pupils during an assembly period. Last year about 25,000 boys and girls took one of these tests.

Eighth, Summer Activities.

A.	Playgrounds. During the summer vacation months our division conducts from 100 to 140 playgrounds in schoolyards.

B.	Swimming Centers. During July and August swimming is taught to boys and girls of the fifth school grade, who pres-sent consent cards from their parents.

Administrative Devices. In order to make this extensive program of activities function several devices have been developed that help to hold the interest of pupils, or that help in checking up results.

A.	Captains and Captains’ Sheets. In grades one, two, and three we have no definite age-requirements, although these grades also take part in all types of prescribed work and in many of the extra-curricular activities.

Beginning with grade four a definite organization of the class is prescribed for physical training work. This is as follows: The pupils in each classroom are divided into two groups or colors. If the school colors happen to be red and blue, every boy and girl in the room is either on a red or on a blue team. - Every classroom

Digitized by VjOOQiC
532

has four teams, two boys’ teams, one red and the other blue, and two girls’ teams, red or blue.

Each team has a captain chosen by the pupils. Each captain has a printed form 5 by 8 inches on which he writes the name of each team mate, his age, height and weight. (Our new sheets include physiological age for girls.) Next to this information the captain puts the age-accomplishments of eveiy team member in each of the four fundamental prescribed activities. Whenever the class goes to the playground or playroom for its physical training lesson the captain notes on his sheet the results of the activity if this happens to be one of the four obligatory events. When a boy (or girl) has passed his age-requirement he is credited on the captain’s sheet with a plus for this particular event. The obligatory events are measurable, pupils therefore know exactly what they should accomplish. As a result they practice the event before or after school, at recess, or at home. Each plus counts as a hundred per cent.

At the end of each term the pupils in all the upper grades work out their own standing on a percentage basis. Specially interested captains work out the standing of each team, and the standing of their room. A pupil’s marks or reports in physical training are based exclusively upon accomplishments in these four measurable standard events.

Having the percentage of each room we can easily put in form of a graph the standing of every room in a school. In the form of a graph we can show the standing of each school in each school district, or in the city as a whole. Finally we know exactly, year for year, what our city’s percentage is.

B.	Athletic Associations. Wherever we find a principal who is ready to give his (or her) pupils a chance to organize for group efforts, we organize athletic associations. In the lower grades these, naturally, are very simple organizations. Their functions in the higher grades are to help organize and conduct after school play and athletics. The more efficient members are encouraged to act as referees in school games. Yearly, our division furnishes buttons to these schools. These are sold to the members of the association at about ten cents each and this helps to create a school fund for athletics. These buttons are used as membership badges and entitle the wearers to any special privileges at a meet, or contest or an exhibition. Yearly about 25,000 such buttons are used in the elementary schools.

C.	A Measuring Chart. During the last decade a great change has taken place in the connection of what anatomy, phv-siology, and hygiene really mean to the child and as school subjects. In this readjustment the teacher of physical education is being pushed into an increasingly important place. In progressive school systems such teacher is now expected to give advice as to the effect of exercise upon pupils that are not up to par, upon the advisability of pupils taking part in athletic competition because of their physical condition at the time of a meet, or upon other questions affecting health.
633

We had long known what a child of a definite age should accomplish physically. We knew that at times weight, or type modified performance. But no single device or “measuring stick” appeared to be available that would help us solve some of our problems. Several years ago our supervisory force began a study that finally resulted in a chart that at a glance shows several important factors influencing health. Using Dr. Bird T. Baldwin's figures as a guide we constructed a chart that shows the relation of age, height, and weight of the average type. To the left of this we placed the information relative to the long slender type, and on the right of the average type we placed the figures relating to the short stocky type.

In order to be able to give advice to principals about the underweight or the overweight pupil we placed the figures relating to these cases along those already spoken of. Arbitrarily we placed the danger line at ten per cent under weight, and at twenty per cent over weight.

When the chart is correctly tacked up on a wall (forty inches from the floor) and we measure a pupil we get all this information at a glance. This chart is an additional means for helping classify pupils. If a pupil cannot accomplish his age-aims, and if our chart shows that by means of this “measuring stick” he also is not normal as to weight or height based upon type we can help a principal materially in re-classifying such pupil. I may here state that at present we are engaged in a further study that will include chest development based on age, height, weight and type.

D.	Merit Grouping. For many years we had been stressing sportsmanship as the main objective so far as athletic competition in public schools was concerned. In co-operation with the division of medical inspection we tried to have pupils see the necessity of having all remediable defects corrected that were discovered by the medical inspectors. Some of these defects we treated. Undernourished pupils were given special attention and directed to the proper authorities. In other cases the desire to engage in athletic competition was used as a stimulus to improve scholastic work.

A natural outgrowth of this endeavor to correlate essential school activities was the evolution of what now is termed the “Merit Grouping Plan”. This plan places before the pupil an ideal embracing five factors. The factors are physical ability, scholastic standing, a sound physique, personal hygiene, and sportsmanlike conduct.

In order to have an “accomplishment scale” for these factors definite requirements had to be outlined by means of which a pupil could see where he stood in each factor. This rating scale is as follows for the five factors. The ratings are in accordance with the following scale:

'“G”—Good; “F”—Fair; “P”-Poor.

1.	Physical Quotient—G represents 115 or more, F, 100 to 114 inclusive and P, 99 or less.

Digitized by L^ooQLe
584

The proceedure for calculating the Physical Quotient is found in our score sheet.

2.	Scholastic Standing, G represents rating of “G” or better in five or more subjects, two of which must be in the following: English, Mathematics, Social Studies and Science. “F” represents Promotion at end of term and “P” represents Non-promotion.

3.	Remedial Physical Defects, “G” indicates none, “F" indicates removal of at least one, and “P” indicates removal of none.

4.	Personal Hygiene, “G” signifies good attention, “F” Fair attention and “P” Poor attention.

5.	Sportsmanlike Conduct, “G” denotes Good, "F” Fair, and “P” Poor.

1.	Physical Quotient is recorded by the physical education teacher.

2.	Scholastic standing is recorded by the record teacher.

3.	Rating based upon removal of remedial physical defects is recorded by the record teacher or physical education teacher. The following only are to be considered:

Defects of Eyes, Ears, Nose, Throat and Teeth.

4.	Rating based upon Personal Hygiene is determined by a committee consisting of the record teacher, physical education teacher, and at least one other departmental teacher. For this rating cleanliness of body and cleanliness of clothing are to be considered.

5.	Rating based upon Sportsmanlike Conduct is determined by the same committee as in No. 4. For this rating the following elements are to be considered: Fair Play, Honesty, Reliability, Self-control.

NOTE: At present a plan is being perfected by means of which all ratings are made by the team captains.

In order to become a “Merit Pupil” a boy or girl at the end of a term must have received a rating of “Good” in all five factors.

The merit grouping plan as it now stands has been in operation in a limited number of schools for two years. At present 3000 pupils are affected by this plan. Each school term it is being introduced into a few additional schools. It calls for extra work. It also calls for a viewpoint that, so far, is not found in all teachers. Too many principals and teachers, at present, are still interested primarily in “putting over” their different courses of study, their Arithmetic, their English or their Hygiene, etc. They lose sight of the fact that school activities are simply tools by means of which the teachers are expected to produce upright, honest pupils. It would be contrary to all experiences for us to expect swift and radical changes of viewpoints among classroom teachers. In fact we still have many members of our own profession who are interested exclusively in a logical progression of exercises, in winning games, in faultless tactics, in perfect dance steps, etc., and who make no effort to connect these aims with worthwhile

Digitized by

S

Google
686

behavior. In our merit grouping plan we have tried to create an ideal that should help to motivate to adolescent pupils the doing of things that are worthwhile. In this we are fairly successful. When once our aim is understood by all concerned, teachers of physical education will be more than dispensers of muscular exercise. Their work will bulk large in what is called character education.

PROBLEMS IN INTERSCHOLASTIC ATHLETICS*

In order to assemble some facts and opinions concerning the athletic situation in our secondary schools, questionnaires were gent out to about one hundred of the larger high and preparatory schools in eastern Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware. Two sets of questionnaires were used. The first contained eight questions and the second, sixteen. Every question of the first questionnaire was repeated in the second. In order to get some definite information concerning some discernible evils, questions number III, IV, V, VI, VIII, XIV, XV, and XVI were added. 80 answers were received. They are distributed as follows:

Pennsylvania ......................65

New Jersey ........................11

Delaware ...........................2

Washington, D. C....................2

Public high schools answering questionnaire.................69

Private preparatory schools answering questionnaire.........11

Questionnaire answered by the principal or headmaster.......64

Questionnaire answered by the coach or athletic director....16

1.	Is it your opinion that undue emphasis is being laid by the American high and preparatory schools upon interscholastic athletics as at present conducted? 80 answers Public Schools

Private

Totals

Yes ............................... 45

No .................................20

Only in a few schools................3

Dangerous tendencies ................1

Schools

Yes .................................5

No ..................................4

Only in a few schools ...............1

Dangerous tendencies ................1

Yes ..................50..........62.5 per	cent

No.....................24.........30.0 per	cent

Qualified	answers	....6..........7.5 per	cent

•Report submitted at a conference during Schoolmen’s Week, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia by John H. Tyson, principal, Upper Darby High SchooL

Digitized by

Google
586

2.

3.

4.

a.

b.

5.

6.

What, if any, do you consider to be the most serious defects

or weaknesses of our present athletic program in high and

secondary school programs?

a.	Weaknesses due to. poor administration, supervision,

or coaching .....,....................................58

b.	Low percentage of participants........................39

c.	Injuries to character building through the development

of wrong motives, individualism, poor sportsmanship, egotism, etc..........................................25

d.	Lack of equipment, time, funds, expenses necessary to

their management; excessive time required for training and coaching..................................    17

e.	Failure to provide for health and the physical injuries

resulting from long schedules and strenuous training.._9

f.	Interference with scholarship and classroom work.......7

Have you noticed any tendencies toward the commercialization of sports or the professionalization of athletes? 55 answers.

Yes ............................. 28

No ...............................25

Commercialization only ............2

Do you favor the employment of people other than regular faculty members to coach athletics? (“Paid Coaches”) 57 answers.

Yes ................................3

No ................................50

Qualified	answers ..................4

Some Pertinent Replies.

I prefer people regularly on the staff when possible, but if an excellent coach is engaged in some other work and can give afternoon time to coaching, I do not regard it as commercialization.

I believe it best to keep within faculty limits, if possible, but not all good teachers make good coaches.

To what extent have you found large guarantees, or large gate receipts, entering into schedule making? 55 answers

a.	Not at all, or to a very small extent...................26

b.	Only to the extent necessary to meet necessary expenses....13

c.	To a considerable or dangerous degree...................12

d.	Gate receipts and guarantees have been abolished entirely in our athletic program...............................4

Several preparatory schools in the vicinity of Philadelphia have been able to take this step. There is little doubt that it is highly desirable, but few communities are willing to place this expense entirely within the school budget.

Do you feel that newspaper publicity injures our athletes to any serious extent? 55 answers

Yes .................................35

No ..................................20

Digitized by

Google
537

Some Negative Answers

1.	No. We need the press.

2.	Not if the school can compel athletes to live up to scholarship requirements.

3.	We must expect some injury. I do not feel that this is serious now.

Some Affirmative Answers.

a.	Decidedly, yes.

b.	One of cur greatest difficulties with our new boys who have taken part in athletics is to correct the effect of publicity.

c.	Very prominent athletes are often thrown off their balance by conspicuous publicity.

d.	Yes. It infuses a spirit that cannot suffer defeat. Therefore, “Win at any cost” becomes a motto.

e.	Newspapers promote post season games which are very undesirable.

f. Yes. It gives the youth a feeling of undue importance.

g. Without question it is one of the worst features.

h.	Yes. It makes some athletes feel that colleges owe them an education.

i.	Yes. I would say that half of our mutual athletic troubles

are caused by newspaper reporters.

j.	I want to stress especially the unfortunate result of praise

by public and press for physical performance only, without careful attention to tne development of a good sportsmanlike spirit.

7.	Have you observed any evidences of physical overstrain due to interscholastic athletics? 74 answers

Yes .......................25

No ........................49

Some Pertinent Answers

a.	The eight-minute quarter in basketball should be adopted more generally.

b.	Yes, when schedules are too long and material scarce.

c.	Yes, especially in the mile run.

d.	With girls, yes.

e.	Yes, in track work especially.

f.	Only in girls’ basketball where boys’ rules are used.

g.	Physical overstrain is not apt to be apparent to the untrained eye.

h.	I wish there were no mile run in the school track meets.

8.	What is your attitude	toward	post-season	tournaments?

53 answers.

Opposed to them..................................................41

Favorable to them.................................................4

Favorable under certain	conditions;	short	season;	as	part

of schedule; if condition of team is good; in certain sports

only .............................................................7

Neutral ...................................................       1

Digitized by VjOC ?IC
538

Some Pertinent Answers

a.	Post-season tournaments should not be permitted.

b.	Absolutely opposed.

c.	Never should be held.

9. What percentage of the boys in the 9th, 10th, 11th, and

12th grades have participated in athletics?

Less than 10 per cent..................12

11-20	per cent.......................21

21-30	per cent ......................13

31-40	per cent .......................7

41-50	per cent........................4

Above 50 per cent.......................5

Median for all schools answering.............about	20 per cent

Median for private schools...................above	40	per	cent

Schools having from 60-100 per cent of boys participating: Jenkintown, Friends’ Central, F. and M. Academy, Episcopal Academy and Washington Eastern H. S.

10. What percentages of the girls in the 9th, 10th, 11th, and

12th grades have participated in interscholastic athletics?

Do not participate in interscholastic athletics.........11

Less than 10 per cent...................................24

11-20 per cent .........................................14

21-30 per cent ..........................................7

31-40 per cent.......................................... 1

50 per cent or more ..................................4

11.	As compared with non-athletic students what is the schol-

astic standing of those participating in interscholastic athletics? 75 answers

Athletes records are higher............12

Athletes records are lower.............28

They are about equal...................33

Girls are higher, boys lower............2

One school reported athletes 2 par cent below non-athletes; another found the difference 5 per cent. Others found relative standing varying from year to year.

12.	Wherein do you consider that our system finds its chief justification?

Mental and moral development; the elements of character, including: fairness, good sportsmanship, honesty, loyalty, co-operation, leadership, personal excellence,

self-control, etc........:..............................34

To develop enthusiasm and school spirit; to hold a boy’s

interest and thus keep him in school....................24

Physical development, health, recreation................14

To provide an outlet for physical energy; competition

under wholesome conditions..............................13

To bring individuals and school together socially; to promote good will between them...............................9

To secure necessary publicity for the school.............4

Because of custom....................................... 3

To improve scholarship.................................. 1

There is no justification for it whatever................2

Digitized by VjOOVIC

a.

c.

d.

e.

f.

t
539

An Interesting Comment.

In the name of physical welfare we should emphasize mass athletics and intra-mural sports, which would lessen personal glory and other undesirable present tendencies.

13.	Do you favor the introduction of a universal system of intra-mural athletics for both bc$rs and girls as a a recognized part of our secondary school program? 73 answers

Yes ...............................61

No .................................4

Qualified	answers ..................8

Some Answers

a.	Yes, but not to the exclusion of interscholastic athletics.

b.	(Remarks of Mr. Walton of George School)

I favor the introduction of a universal system of intramural athletics for both boys and girls as a recognized part of our secondary school program, but with this understanding that it shall be a preparation for interscholastic competition. Boysand girls have a native interest in athletics as in lessons. Of the two, lessons are more interesting as an all day pursuit. An athletic program can become very wearisome unless it is motivated by the native instinct for competition. To get the most value from athletics a school should have teams in as many sports as can possibly be financed. Junior teams with short schedules from nearby opponents should be encouraged. The competitive teams are no place for green players. They should be seasoned by a comprehensive program of intra-mural athletics.

c.	It is too Utopian to amount to anything.

d.	Not to exclude all interscholastic athletics, but to replace much that we now have.

e.	Yes, and backing it up with the same vim that we put into interscholastic athletics.

14.	What intra-mural athletics have you found to be practicable in your own school?

Basketball	45	Swimming	5

Baseball	22	Gymnastics	4

Track	22	Cross Country	3

Football	17	Boxing	3

Soccer	12	Wrestling	2

Tennis	10	Fencing	2

Hockey	9	Push Ball	4

Volley Ball	8	No sports whatever 4

15.	Do you feel that lack of equipment, grounds, etc. is an absolute barrier to intra-mural athletics?

Yes ..............................21

No ...............................24

Qualified answers ...............................  10

Digitized by UjOOQlC
540

Some Pertinent Answers

a.	It would seem that some place could be found by almost any school if sufficiently interested.

b.	Probably not “absolute” but a serious hindrance.

c.	It is a handicap, but if those in charge are “on the job” places can be procured.

16.	What do you feel to be the chief obstacles to a greater participation in athletics on the part of our boys and girls?

a.	Lack of space, grounds and equipment....................21

b.	Lack of trained coaches; insufficient time to give instruction to all...........................................19

c.	Varsity domination of athletics; the prevailing feeling

that only the few can secure places on teams............11

d.	Lack of interest in athletics by a large number of pupils.9

e.	Opposition of parent.....................................8

f.	Lack of time for them in daily program...................6

g.	Counter attractions; movies, other extra-curricular-

activities, etc..........................................6

h.	Work after school hours..................................5

i.	Failure of school authorities to endorse them............3

g.	Interference with studies............................... 1

k.	Immaturity of pupils.....................................1

Some Comdusions from tho Study

l.	There is a strong feeling, particularly among public school officials, that undue emphasis is being placed on interscholastic athletics. This is due largely to the necessity of neglecting intra-mural athletics for the sake of interscholastic athletics under the limited faeflities which most schools provide. The chief aim of interscholastic athletics, as at present conducted, is not the deveropmeat of health.

2. The most serious defects in our present interscholastic program are attributable to weaknesses in administration, supervision, and coaching. Responsibility for many of the present evils can be placed directly upon the school authorities themselves. Tendencies toward professionalism and commercialism, the employment of professional coaches and poor officials, the lax enforcement of eligibility standards, poor sportsmanship on the part of participants and spectators, interference from the community-all these are attributed to weaknesses in administration or supervision.

3.	The whole health program of our secondary schools is dominated in too many cases by varsity athletics. The time of trained coaches is given too largely to the training of students for interscholastic competition. The number of students who receive this training is entirely too small in a very large number of schools included in this study. It is due to limited coaching facilities and the feeling on the part of untrained students that there is no probability of their being selected for varsity teams.

Digitized by

Google
611

4.	Private schools about Philadelphia have a much larger percentage of participants in interscholastic athletics than public schools.

5.	The tendencies toward the professionalization of athletes and the commercialization of sports is sufficiently marked to receive immediate attention.

6.	The employment of “professional” coaches is deemed very unwise and dangerous.

7.	Newspaper publicity is injuring our athletes and interfering with athletic programs. Some of this is to be expected even in communities where newspaper publicity is of the proper sort.

8.	There is comparatively little evidence in the hands of school authorities that athletes suffer physical injuries due to strenuous competition. On the other hand, it may safely be said that many injuries are not evident to the untrained eye.

9.	Post season tournaments and championship games are considered unwise. The “insane desire to win” is already too prevalent. State and local tournaments for the selection of champions and the picking of all-star teams is not helping the situation any.

10.	The scholarship of our athletes is not suffering seriously because of interscholastic competition. On the other hand, there are many cases in which students are doing good work because of high eligibility standards.

11.	The introduction of intra-mural athletics for everyone is quite generally desired. Lack of space, time and equipment are the chief obstacles and in many cases are difficult to overcome. Much can be done if the school authorities attack the problem energetically.

JAPANESE COMBATIVE ARTS*

By E. J. Harrison. Author of “The Fighting Spirit of Japan,” etc.

The striking victories scored by Japanese arms in the Sino-Japaneseand Russo-Japanese wars strongly impressed the imagination of the West, and called attention to the fact that a new Military Power of the first rank had risen in the Far East, whose potent word in the moulding of Oriental destinies might not hereafter be lightly gainsaid.

These victories surprised the Westerner in his own habitat, but not the Westerner resident in Japan and an intelligent observer of her human equation. Speaking for myself, it was in the latter capacity that I confidently predicted these results, and again to-day should still be disposed to place my mpney on Dai Nippon in the event of a scrap,—which the Fates forefend!—

•Reprint from “Physical Education” England, ypl. l.
542

on equal numerical and technical terms between Western and Japanese armies.

Philosophical altruists may deplore the fact, but fact it seems to he that man is a fighting animal and that, however glibly w e may try to camouflage the truth, the final appeal in individual and international disputes is to force of some description. The compensating side of this otherwise disconcerting truth is that fighting calls for physical and mental fitness and that the prospect of combat in whatever physical form furnishes the most potent incentive to physical development.

We Westerners have ourselves to thank that the Japanese from the early days of their unwilling intercourse with the Occident speedily grasped this truth and proceeded to act upon it. Indeed, had they not done so, they might very well to-day be little better than an American or English appanage. Fortunately for Japan’s future independence, her statesmen and leaders rightly perceived at the outset that the real god of the Christian Western Powers was force; and that for force alone they entertained any genuine respect.

Acting upon this perception, the Japanese have consistently set out to foster and encourage what we may call the combative spirit in their youth; not alone by means of conscription for modem military service, but through the stimulation of essentially native fighting arts, such as swordsmanship, called kendo or su, and that wonderful system of defence and attack without weapons styled judo or as it is better known among Westerners, jujitsu. There are many other branches of Japanese military arts, notably archery kyujutsu, and lance exercise naginata, perhaps of less practical utility, while it goes without saying that concurrently with her adoption of Western military methods, Japan today cultivates all Western military exercises, riding, shooting, bayonet exercise and so forth.

With the space at my disposal I can only briefly review the principal subjects of judo and kendo, admittedly the two most effective and distinctive Japanese combative arts, without attempting anything in the nature of a technical description. Of both, perhaps the former particularly, it is not too much to say that they have helped to revolutionize the physique of the new generation of Japanese.

Jujitsu (jumeaning “to obey, submit, weak, soft, pliable,” and jutsu meaning “art”) was compulsory among the samurai under the old feudal regime, and it was .often a point of honor among the higher minded ones, if attacked by a vulgar opponent, whether with or without a weapon, to try first to overcome him by means of jujutsu, before drawing their own sword. Nowadays, however, jujutsu is no longer a monopoly of the military class, and the various dojo, or schools, in the larger cities render it possible for any respectable person to practise it for almost a nominal fee.

There are many jujutsu sects or ryugi in Japan, but by far the most famous and representative is the ecl^d^^y^tem per-
543

fected by Dr. Kano Jigoro, a distinguished educationist, who some forty years ago took up the older forms of	in order to im-

prove his own physique. He achieved brilliant success, and eventually developed his judo school, with the Kcdo-Kwan as headquarters in Tokyo. In evolving judo, Dr. Kano retained all that is really valuable from the repertoire of the older ryugi, while rejecting what the lawyers would call surplusage, and adding largely to the list of waza, or tricks, classifying the latter in a logical and scientific manner. Frcm modest beginnings the famous Kodo-Kwan has grown into an imposing practice hall, with a membership running into thousands, and it is continually growing, while among Dr. Kano’s montei, or disciples, are included many of the most prominent military and naval men of Japan, not excepting even princes of the Imperial blood. Judo is the system off dally recognised, compulsory in all naval and military schools, practised at all Government universities and schools, and at nearly all the bigger private educational establishments.

Judo falls roughly under three heads, i. e.	including

choke-locks, bone-locks, and pinning on the ground; and uaza, the last named comprising the esoteric aspects of the art, viz. methods of assaulting vital spots. The atemiuaza are supplemented by instruction in the secret art of resuscitation called ktcappo, whereby a person seemingly dead frcm strangulation or other causes and whose heart has ceased to teat, can be revived.

The non-esoteric branches of judo are taught through ran-dori, in which the pupil freely applies his knowledge in open practice (	keiko) with others, and through kalo, or forms, in which the

principal tricks are demonstrated in a given order by two performers.

In order 'to inure the pupil to the two extremes of heat and cold and to cultivate the virtue of perseverance, all schools hold special summer and winter exercises. In the periodical competitions the best two out of three falls, or other recognised proof of superiority, decide the victory, although the umpire, if the contest be unduly prolonged, may announce what is called ippon shobu, which means that one fall shall decide the issue. After a certain number of minutes, usually five, should neither opponent score, the contest is declared a draw.

The two great competitions of the year, held in the spring and autumn respectively, are styled	shobu ( red and white

contest), in which the competitors, numbering hundreds, are divided into two parties (red and white) each party having its chief and being arranged according to the degree of skill possessed by the members.

The outward badge of efficiency is the cloth belt which confines at the waist the rough tunic worn in practice. Beginning with a white belt, the pupil, on attaining what is called or third class, dons a brown belt, which he retains up to or first class, only to change it for a black belt on promotion to the lowest teaching dan or grade called shodan. No subsequent change is made in the belt, although the teacher may rise to higher

Digitized by VjOO^LL
644

grades, the highest being seventh grade, or shichidan, of which there are very few throughout Japan.

The West has already had ocular demonstration of what can be accomplished by small and seemingly slight Japanese, by means of jujutsu, against far bigger and heavier European antagonists, thanks to the skill and fitness of the Japanese system, which enables an expert to turn his opponent’s very strength against himself through timely application of the principles of balance and leverage. From this circumstance we get the nomenclature jujutsu, facetiously dubbed the “art of gentleness,” in other words, the art which wins by appearing to yield instead of opposing strength to strength.

The Japanese term their form of fencing	or	kendo,

and as practised in Japan it appears to be a genuine national growth. The weapon used in practice is a stick called a	made	of	three

strips of bamboo bound tightly together, with a small round guard and a hilt large enough to accommodate both hands. Its length is usually about four feet. The Japanese style of fencing is two-handed, and although at the present day the police and military are armed with a light single-handed weapon, not unlike the European sabre, the older national method continues to be taught to the police in preference to our occidental escrime. The principal native schools are the Shinkage, Shinto, Yagui, Ono-ha-itto and Ni-to-ryu, the last named being practised with two swords, one for each hand, as invented by the famous Miyamoto Musashi during the seventeenth century. In practice the performers are protected by masks and breastplates of strong lacquer and by gauntlets. In practice striking at the legs is forbidden and the decisive points are the head, both sides, the right arm and throat, the latter being virtually the only thrust permitted.

The greatest all round festival of military arts is held in the spring, in Kyoto, under the auspices of the famous Butoku-Kwai or Military Virtue Society, which possesses its own magnificent hall, called the Butoku-den, in spacious grounds. On this occasion contests are held in judo, kendo, horsemanship, archery, swimming, and with many hundreds of competitors from every part of Japan participating.

The sumo-tori or fat wrestlers of Japan are so well known and have been so often described that I need hardly refer to them. They vary greatly in size, the smallest being not more than 5 ft. 4 in. in neight or thereabouts, whereas the biggest range up to 6 ft. and over, and weight up to 400 lb. Fat as these men are, it would be a grievous error to conclude that they are clumsy, for not only are they capable of great skill in their own style but often their strength is simply colossal. Their fat, indeed, has been hardened by continual beating and butting at wooden posts until jt becomes almost a weapon of offence in itself. The periodical matches held in Tokyo and elsewhere attract thousands of spectators, the greatest contests of the year being conducted in a ring within the enclosure of the Ekoin temple, Tokyo.

Digitized by Google
545

EPARTMENT OF EDUCATIONAL HYGIEN

LAWRENCE AUGUSTUS AVERILL

To Preserve Children

Take one large, grassy field, one-half dozen children, two or three small dogs, a pinch of brook and some pebbles. Mix the children and dogs well together and put them in the field. Stirring constantly. Pour the brook over the pebbles. Sprinkle the field with flowers. Spread over all a deep, blue sky, and bake in the hot sun. When brown, remove and set away to coqI in a bath tub.—Exchange.

The above, published in one of our exchanges (The Educational Research Bulletin, Ohio University, Apr. 1, 1925, issue) is so. frankly excellent that the Editor is delighted to pass it on to readders of this Journal.

Celebrating their increase from twelve to 711 during the first quarter of this century, cities of America which provide directed public recreation will send delegates to the Twelfth National Recreation Congress, meeting in Asheville, N. C., October 5-10, under the auspices of the Playground and Recreation Association of America. The 1925 Congress marks a milestone in the progress of the creative and health-giving play of the American people. Not only city delegates, including recreation directors, recreation commissioners and other public officials, will be present. Business executives, clubwomen, physicians, clergymen, educators, social workers, writers and many others have attended past Congresses and this year they promise to be even more numerous because of the growing popular interest in and recognition of public recreation as a power in our national life.

The South welcomes the Congress for the first time since 1912, when Richmond, Va., was host. Asheville was chosen from a field of invitations presented by thirty cities, in thirteen states, Canada and Belgium. This was in recognition of the strides the South has been making in public recreation and also of the facilities Asheville offers for the convention. As a result, Southern cities are already giving additional thought to multiplying their playgrounds and strengthening their recreation leadership. The Congress will be an intensive training school, both practical and inspirational, where leaders in the recreation movement will pool their knowledge, discuss their problems and plan for the future. Some of the main topics to be considered are community drama, community music, athletics, rural recreation, the church and recreation, play space, outdoor camping, municipal golf and industrial recreation.

Six hundred men and women representing thirty-five states attended last year’s Congress at Atlantic City, N. J. At the clos§

Digitiz by VjOOQLC
546

of this Congress, President Coolidge wired hearty greetings and good wishes, saying, “Much is to be done in showing our people the right use of their leisure time.”

Poor lighting rather than good lighting is the rule in most of the homes in our country, according to a report of the Eye Sight Conservation Council disclosing conditions in homes and schools.

While lighting conditions generally are far from what they should be in the industrial field, the households and the school rooms are neglected to an extent that is harmful to the eyes of the .human race.

“One reason for this,” according to the Council, “is that in a great many homes the lighting equipment has not been changed to keep pace with the rapid development in the art of lighting.

“A great many of these old residences are rented and the occupants are reluctant to make improvements at their own expense, even though they recognize the inadequacy of the faulty illumination. Such conditions, however, can usually be modified with a small expenditure so that, to a considerable extent at least, the advantage of modern illumination may be enjoyed.

“One of the most common evils found in home lighting is the bare lamp. It is usually so low as to be directly in the line of vision, causing eyestrain at the same time providing poor illumination. There are specially designed fixtures for correcting not only this condition but also the many other objectionable features of the old style equipment.

“Where the present installation does not provide sufficient light, portable lamps in great variety are available and can be used advantageously. Floor lamps, table lamps and small ornamental lamps in addition to augmenting the lighting are appreciated by the householder because of their flexibility and decorative value.

“Although the essential requirement of lighting in the home is the elimination of eyestrain, the decorative possibilities should not be overlooked. The most pleasing and comfortable effect is produced by skillfully combining utility and ornamentation.

“Artistic shades ana colored lights are mediums of expressing individuality in furnishing our homes. However, great care should be taken in the use of colored lights, in order not to defeat their real purpose. Colored lamps and dimly shaded lamps are not intended for reading and close work, for eyestrain is caused by improper and insufficient light.”

Glare, says the report of the Eye Sight Conservation Council, is one of the most insidious causes of eyestrain, and is “unquestionably the most prevalent and objectionable concomitant of improper lighting.”

Experts find difficulty in defining glare. One definition is “light out of place.” Another is “glare is any brightness within the field of vision of such a character as to cause discomfort, annoyance, interference with vision or eye fatigue,”

Digitized by ^ ^.ooQle
547

Science has revealed three chief sources of glare—excessive brightness, excessive volume of light and excessive contrast. Excessive brightness of light sources is, the Council’s report says, now believed to be the worst offender.

Methods of lighting the home, to promote health and comfort, are becoming a vital factor of domestic science, continues the report, distinct treatment being demanded for living room, dining room and kitchen.

Do you play as hard as you work?

Play and particularly out-of-door play is one of the most important things in the world. When the happy spirit of Play comes flitting in, worries, fretting cares, and the blues slouch sulkily away. Play is the safety exhaust for unhappiness, disappointments and troubles.

The person who works without seasoning his twenty-four hours with play is developing a one-sided character. The man who can play as hard as he works is the one who develops the characteristics,—mental keenness, versatility and adaptability to do team work in the business world,—which are so essential to success.

It is the boy or girl in college who has learned to play with enthusiasm and zeal as well as capture the scholastic honors who will be the greatest success in professional and business spheres.

Play a third set of tennis, drive your golf ball into the eighteenth-hole, swim until you have tested your endurance and the skill of your strokes. At the end of your play hour, you will greet the world with a happy smile and the pep and spirit of the conqueror. Through play we get a heightened consciousness and an exaltation of emotions that lift us above the routine of every dav life.

Play builds strong bodies and healthy minds. It is conducive to a happy disposition, a perfect digestion and uninterrupted sleep. Too often grown-ups feel that when responsibility becomes part of their daily living, the play hours of youth should be pigeon-holed. Play is undeniably the birth right of childhood and it is a birth right that should be respected in some form throughout life. There is no age limit for play.

In childhood, play properly directed, unconsciously develops traits that are the indices of a fine citizen,—sportsmanship, loyalty, perseverance, resourcefulness, a democratic spirit, and the ability to play together harmoniously. It is a tonic to cure the many ills of professional and business men and women, sitting in a stuffy office all day where there is little respite from responsibility and no physical relaxation. It brings the teacher in spirit and understanding, closer to her pupils. It invigorates parents and narrows the gap of years existing between them and their children.

Because recreation has been discovered by physicians as one of the exponents to health, men and women who ara endeavoring

Digitized by VjUUV LC
648

to lengthen their span of life are today making play schedules to fit in their daily routine. Educators recognize the significance of play as interdependent with book learning and consequently, some form of physical exercise has been introduced into the curriculum of every progressive school system. With them originated a new name for physical education,—Big Muscle Activity.

Bit muscle Activity through plav develops the latent power for health which is every man’s rightful heritage. Health specialists encourage physical exercise because it develops and hardens the muscles, stimulates circulatory activity and creats mental keenness and alertness. Muscular activity increases the oxygen supply to the tissues. Exercise increases circulation, carries food to the tissues of the body, removes wastes from the kidneys, lungs, intestines and skin, distributes the internal secretions of the glands and equalizes the water and heat content of the body.

It improves digestion and helps assimilation of food, for digestion is a muscular as well as a chemical process. Exercise is necessary to keep the muscles in good condition and helps to eliminate trouble of constipation for, after all, constipation usually results fron sedentary life and too little muscular activity. Exercise is absolutely necessary for the growing child because it develops muscles of his body and the normal development of the tnmk muscles body is important in building a healthy child.

As previously announced in this Department the June issue will be devoted to a review of recent books in the field of educational hygiene. Watch for it.

<	1	■	1	■	■■■■■"------ ■■ o

News, notes and comments

<	y	<■

The last issue of the Heating and Ventilating Magazine has an interesting article on the effect of clothing, temperature and air movement upon normally clad persons. In former experiments the effects of temperature and air movement were studied upon persons stripped to the waist. In the present experiments, the individuals were normally clothed and were moderately active. The results observed were as follows

1.	Velocities of air lower than 100 feet per minute were more efficient in cooling than higher velocities. Above 300 feet per minute the efficiency of air movement falls off very considerably.

2.	An elastic cotton union suit that tightly covers as much as possible of the body’s surface, constitutes an ideal outfit for exposures to hot atmospheres. Clothing should never be removed when the temperature of the air exceeds the temperature of the body. Clothing under such conditions protects against a transfer of heat from the air to the body.

3.	The rate at which clothing transfers heat through it depends upon the material, condition of same with respect to mois-

Digitized by V l O	IC
649

ture, thickness and size of its meshes. When dry, cotton or woolen clothes of the same thickness and size of mesh are equally good, but when wet, woolen clothes prevent heat loss much Detter than cotton. In general, it can be stated that other things being equal, the rate at which clothing transfers heat depends upon the amount of air within its meshes and between its layers.

Bulletin 1118 of the Playground and Recreation Association of America has the following note on Recreation by Joseph Lee.

All who would work toward radical improvement in social conditions in any nation or community should place recreation next to the development of a positive religious purpose and ideal on the part of the people as a whole. For the first need of everybody is a positive social life to grow up into and have a part in. Life is always the arch opponent of death, whether moral or spiritual. The great enemy of disease is health. It is the gray, uninteresting life that is responsible for the breakdowns, whether physical or moral, and there is comparatively little use in treating the sick in either form while the possibility of a full, happy and devoted life does not exist.

I have used the word recreation, and put it next to religion, but recreation is a poor word. What I mean is absorption in the pursuit of the ideals which in human life are supplementary to goodness,—namely truth and beauty. Surrender to these ideals is a part of any religion by which men can live.

“Emotional excitement and its effect on temperature rise in exhaled air” is the title of a short article by S. Homer Wood-bridge in the Heating and Ventilating Magazine, a resume of which follows.

As is well known, the effects of animal life on confined air are made evident in carbon dioxide, aqueous vapor, heat and ef-fluvial accretions yielded to the air. These all increase with vital energy output, whether physical, mental or emotional. Because more reliable than the others, being less affected by extraneous causes, such as variableness in initial humid or other qualities of air as compared with far more fixed gaseous quality, the air changes attending animal life within it are almost universally measured by carbon dioxide increment.

The changes in air contents within auditoriums, due to mental or emotional activity, have been registered by the sudden increase in contained carbon dioxide when, for example, a staged play approaches an exciting climax. So far as known to the writer no such change has thus far been chronicled in "temperature” increments. Only when air changes are rapid, as in the case here presented, reducing to a minimum heat absolution by walls and other heat-absorbing surfaces, can the significance of thermal changes approach in reliablity those in carbon dioxide content.

The above conditions correspond closely with those found during the memorial service in commemoration of the late President Harding, when the Hall was occupied to its utmost capacity,
550

and which the public health expert in attendance reported to be such as to furnish no ground for reasonable complaint as touching the quantity, distribution, quality and effective use of air for ventilating purposes now obtainable within the Hall when so crowded.

The temperatures were first taken at five minute intervals, and finally at intervals of two and one half minutes.

Exercise and excitement incident to assembling and seating and to the occasion itself had accelerated body heat-production rate within and elimination rate from the occupants sufficiently to raise the temperature of escaping air to a point not measured. Temperature continued falling with the quieting and relaxation of the assembly until 12:35 when the temperature registered was 72.16 degrees.

Interest in the discourse then began to have its physiological effect, slightly and continuously increasing thermal production and output until, at 1:15, the temperature reached 72.28 degrees. After further intensive listening to the address there came slight mental and nervous relaxation attending unconscious fatigue, with accompanying reduction in the rate of thermal production and elimination, and a corresponding fall in air temperature, at 1:25, to 72.25 degrees.

As the address neared its peroration climax, interest became increasingly intense, and the effect on air temperature is seen in the rise, at 1:40, to 72.51 degrees; at 1:42 1-2, to 74.6 degrees; and, at 1:45, to 75.3 degrees. The final temperature rise attended the mental excitement of the closing 2 1-2 minutes, the physical exercise of general and prolonged applause, the rising of the assembly to its feet, releasing warmed air from within clothing, all adding their effects to that of increased thermal body production and output.

Immediately following the close of the address and during subdued music by the United States Marine Band, the temperature began falling rapidly toward the normal.

There is urgent need in our public schools for 25 times as many sight-saving classes—special classes for children with seriously defective vision—as now exist, declared Lewis H. Carris, Managing Director, National Committee for the Prevention of Blindness, in an address before a conference of school superintendents from all sections of the United States held in Cincinnati under the auspices of the National Education Association. There are at present approximately 200 sight-saving classes scattered about the country, whereas approximately 5,000 such classes are needed.

“There are in the United States at least 50,000 children with such seriously defective vision that they are unable to keep up with the work of normally sighted children. In most communities one of three things is happening to these unfortunate children. They must attend school with normally sighted children, thereby further endangering what little sight they have and at the same time bearing the stigma of 'dunces’; or they are kept^utj^f school
661

altogether and are thereby deprived of an education; or they are sent to schools for the blind.”

Another one of those straws which help to show where the wind is blowing from is a note in the Oakland, Cal. Tribune stating that a bill had been introduced in the legislature “amending the physical education act so as to permit pupils to be excused from participation without any reason except a written request from parent or guardian.”

(Editor; why not allow parents or guardians to determine, without any reason except a written request, how much English a pupil should receive? The absurdity of any such procedure should show the merit of the bill spoken of.)

At the recent meeting of the British Association a prominent physician is quoted as having said.

“We have here in London a stadium accommodating 120,000 persons, which has been used for a boxing match that was all over in sixty seconds. That should furnish us something to think about “It would be infinitely better for London if, instead of a vast amphitheater where 120,000 persons can see athletes competing, there were 120 scattered playgrounds each furnishing wholesome exercise to 1,000 persons.

“If both kinds of athletic accommodation can be provided in any city, very well. But the important thing is to provide facilities for wholesome physical exercise to large numbers of people.” That is merely an extreme example of what should give Americans especially something to think about. This country is being dotted with great costly stadiums, whose chief use is for athletic contests, which is to say, for contests between champions. While a few highly developed and specialized athletes compete, tens of thousands stand or sit idly, looking on and imagining that they are interested in physical training. The same thing is true of our professional baseball fields.

The American Educational Digest has the following article by M. H. Johnson.

Need of an All-Year, Outdoor Program of Physical Education. (M. H. Johnson). The problems of constructing an outdoor program of exercises and sports in physical education for high school boys which will run throughout the entire school year, as a part of the general problem of adapting physical education to recognized objectives, has been increased in importance steadily in recent years. The educational point of view holds that the physical education program must be constructed in view of every other part of the educational program. Another factor is the increased emphasis upon the value of the play, or sport spirit, in work and recreation. The emphasis upon the supervision of physical training activities, with the objectives to be attained, constantly held in view, has increased the importance of a definite

program. Another factor is the increase in popularity of tests

ic
662

andrmeasurements in physical education, as in other fields. Thirty- two states, during recent years, have passed compulsory physical education laws for public school children. In the northern localities, the playground offers a good location for carrying on the winter program. Some progress has already been made in the development of an outdoor program. A number of schools are now pioneering in this direction. In constructing an all-year, outdoor program of physical education, one should hold to the point of view that physical education should be given its due place in the program of studies, and that it should be administered with consideration for the importance of the other school activities.

Midland Schools.

As a part of the medical work of the University of Virginia, the School of Public Health and Physical Education, with a degree of bachelor of science in public health, trains sanitarians, instructors in public health and district nurses in caring for preventive medjcine in the Commonwealth..

Mental Health Problem in School Children. A study made by Dr. F. G. Ebaugh of fifty unselected cases referred by teachers of regular schools have been summarized from the standpoint of physical, mental, psychometric and environmental findings. Corrective modifications have been suggested and the therapeutic results after a period of at least one year discussed. The school should be considered as the children’s health center of the district. This means care for their mental as well as their physical well-being. School clinics, operating in close cooperation with the mental clinic of the district, and children’s observation wards in the general hospitals will all be needed in meeting this important public health problem. The maladjustment of the child of today has a definite connection with the abnormal reactions or actual psychoses of the adult of to-morrow. The principles of preventive psychiatry, therefore, demand the early treatment of maladjustment in its incipience, when proper steps may be instituted to establish social adaptation at the person’s highest level of efficiency.—From American Journal of Diseases of Children Chicago.

In the Boston, Mass. Post we find the following interesting item:

Tremendous interest in educational circles of the State was caused Jan. 28th by the filing of a writ in the Supreme Court of Middlesex County asking for a writ of mandamus against the school board of the town of Arlington to compel it to comply with the provisions of the physical education law requiring a complete physical examination of each school child once a year.

The petitioner is William C. Drouet, a candidate for the Middlesex district attorneyship in the last election and a salesman for a large Boston wholesale house, who has a home at Arlington Heights.

Digitized by vjUUyLL
563

Alleged non-compliance with the law in scores of other towns throughout the State, excepting in instances where State Aid has been withheld unless they obeyed it to the letter, and the fact that the Arlington board passed a vote the sense of which is that each child should be examined four times during his school life, rather than annually, will be part of the evidence before the Supreme Court.

The Eugenics office has issued a new schedule entitled, “Physical Developmental Record for American Males.” The preparation of the record begins with boys from three to six years of age and requires ten years for completion. While the completion of each record requires many measurements, it requires only a short time for each entry. The value of the record to the child himself, to the family to which he belongs, and to science generally, makes its preparation quite worth while.

Proper ventilation of sohool buildings during the winter is essential. In a study made among high-school juniors by the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, 15 per cent stated that the school could help more to develop health habits by looking after ventilation better. Of those stating ways in which the school tends to produce ill health, 40 per cent mentioned “poor ventilation.” Pupils require fresh air. Twenty-one per cent of the 15,075 answering included “fresh air” among the “three best health habits possessed.” This recreation indulging group placed it second only to “plenty of exercise.”

The small rural school plant can at small expense meet the requirements for good ventilation. Some rural schools have ventilating heaters. Others have satisfactory jacketed stoves with adequate fresh-air inlets and foul-air outlets. Still others have furnaces, gravity exhaust ducts, and window boards at the majority of the windows. The window boards are frequently panes of glass 1 foot high set as deflectors in the window sash. All may be so regulated as to serve ventilation needs admirably.

According to experiments made under the direction of the New York State Ventilation Commission, window-ventilated rooms with gravity exhausts seemed fresher and freer from odor and were more comfortable as to temperature than rooms equipped with expensive fan systems. Appetite for food is considerably decreased if stale air is breathed. The retarding defects of malnutrition are too well established to overlook this result of poor ventilation.

The temperature of the room affects the vigor of pupils. A reliable thermometer in plain view on the teacher’s desk should register a room temperature of 68 degrees. Subjects experimented with were inclined to do 63 per cent more type-writing and 15 per cent more physical work at 68 degrees than at 73 degrees. The lower stimulating temperature, together with an air change, without chilling drafts, sufficient to remove the accumulation of body odors, is most favorable for study. School boards should provide at

J	gitized	by
664

least the minimum essentials for good ventilation. Teachers should learn how to regulate them to obtain the maximum of results for their pupils.

In an effort to collect and broadcast data from the most successful school health programs now being carried on by secondary schools throughout the country the American Child Health Association is making a nationwide study. Every secondary school doing any phase of health work is asked to submit its program to the committee of prominent educators, named by the Association, who will select the most practical contributions submitted. Superintendents or principals of schools entering will be asked for information on all phases of a health education program from the health training and protection of the pupils and teachers to the hygienic and sanitary conditions of the school building. The mam purpose of the study is to find a scheme of health education that really results in healthier boys and girls. Some of the questions are: Is the health program under faculty direction and how is the health of teachers and pupils supervised? Is the course in health training and instruction elective or compulsory? How is health inspection conducted and how are the problems of prevention of contagion handled? Is any study made of the absences through illness? Are the results of this study made useful in formulating the health-teaching program? What provision is made for the hot noonday lunch served at school for pupils who cannot go home? Has any plan been worked out to check-up the number of hours of sleep obtained by each pupil?

Dr. Arnold Gesell in speaking in the Child Health Magazine says:

The Psychological Significance of the pre-school Years; “What is true of general physical development is true of mental (and nervous) development. The brain grows at a tremendous rate during the pre-school age, reaching almost its mature bulk by the age of

6.	The mind develops with a corresponding velocity. The infant learns to see, to hear, handle, walk, comprehend, and talk. He acquires an uncountable number of habits fundamental to the complex art of living. Never again will his mind, his character, his spirit advance as rapidly as in this formative pre-school period of growth. Never again will we have an equal chance to lay the foundations of mental health. From the standpoint of the mental hygienist therefore, the pre-school period appears no less significant than it does as a time for the development of physical vigor and the over-coming of disease and physical defects.

At a meeting of the Executive Committee of the American Child Health Association it was decided that through a redirection of funds, the Association will be able to increase greatly its distribution of information on child health through popular magazines, professional, class and trade journals and the press. This promises to reach a vastly largeij^a^^^nce in the
655

most effective way andFto be a telling” move in the extension of child health protection.

Therefore, the Child Health Magazine will be replaced by a bulletin containing information on special subjects, wnich will be

Eublished from time to time, as occasion demands, and which will e made the basis of press releases for wide distribution.

What was the best thing you ever did for your health? Hygeia, popular health magazine published by the American Medical Association, asked that question of its readers and got 179 replies.

Thirty-seven out of 179 gave right thinking as their answer. By right thinking was meant, in most instances, the correction of bad mental habits, such as worry, self pity and imaginary or minor complaints. Most of them found their relief in work.

Twenty-six, the second highest number, gave exercise as their great aid in overcoming physical handicaps. Some set out on a systematic plan of outdoor and indoor exercise; others had to exercise; through new demands placed upon them or through a change in their work or mode of living.

Proper diet was mentioned as the thing contributing most to good health by 19 out of the number. Removal of tonsils, drinking plenty of water, getting the proper amount of sleep were other favorite answers.

A goodly number of those who replied by letter and several of those who received prizes for good answers could not trace their

good health to any one factor but rather to the adoption of proper ealth habits in general.

Too many dances and too little sleep are reasons why so many young girls develop tuberculosis in the opinion of Dr. James A. Britton, Chicago specialist, who writes for the March Hygeia an article on "Tuberculosis and Occupation.”

Recently a survey was made of the health conditions of a huge industry. The doctors were surprised to find that it was not the factory employees so much as the office employees who developed tuberculosis most readily.

“A large number of the young girls believed that five or six hours of sleep was sufficient rest at night and made it their usual practice to go to entertainments, dances or some other night activity at least three or four times a week,” said Dr. Britton.

“The real cause for the development of tuberculosis was a lack of understanding of the importance of rest as a factor in good health.”

Long hours and low wages on the other hand are causes of the development of tuberculosis among factory workers. The occupation itself has little to do with the development of the disease.

Long hours cause fatigue, and the small wage means poor food, poor clothing, lack of rest and improper housing.

By taking proper care of those having tuberculosis the tuber-losis rate can be cut down, but by far the biggest influence in re-
666

ducing it will come from social adjustments doing away with the lower strata of industry in which it has been customary to employ men and women for long hours at a comparatively small wage.

Athletes who participate in organized games have a better record in academic work than those who prefer to sit upon the bleachers, according to statistics recently compiled by Martin Kemp, professor of psychology in the College of Wooster, Ohio. The football men ranked below the general average for scholarship of the athletes but above the general average of the nonathletes.

Baltimore is handling its athletic problems for women and girls in a manner that must be eminently satisfactory, for at a recent indoor carnival of sports 5,026 women and girls competed. The whole affair was handled by women and girls, and it lasted from 1 until 10:45 p. m. in the city’s armory. Thousands of spectators watched this army of female competitors in their athletic events.

Notes from the U. S. Bureau of Education

One of the Medical Officers in England has for some years been experimenting with texts of physical efficiency, or “life values” as he terms them. The test he has found the most valuable for boys over twelve is “breath-holding,” and its extreme simplicity renders it capable of application in practically all cases.*** The normal time for a boy of twelve is 30 seconds.*** Where the time is less than 30 seconds disease or else temporary exhaustion will always be detected. By this test it is possible to estimate the “athletic value of the boy.” It is found by experience that a boy’s efficiency in games varies directly with his efficiency as estimated by this test.

To make the test the boy is asked to take a deep breath, expel it and again breathe deeply, hold his nose and keep his mouth closed; the time in seconds is then counted by the examiner until the child makes spasmodic efforts to breathe.

The report of the Joint Committee on Health Problems in Education, entitled “Health Education” has recently been published and offers a fine aid for such work in the public schools and teacher training schools.

The Second National Conference on Outdoor Recreation will be held in the spring of 1925. In the meanwhile the committees appointed at the first conference are working out the problems set before them.

The West Chicago Park Commissioners have issued a well illustrated “Guide to the Conservatory in Garfield Park” that should be an incentive for many to view this wonderful collection of plants. Visits to conservatories are one of the most delightful forms of recreation imaginable.

Digitized by VjOOQLc
557

Speaking at the school superintendents convention at Cincinnati, Erie C. Hopwood, editor of the Cleveland Plain Dealer, when speaking of the place of public opinion in a scheme of national defence in discussing the work of the public schools expressed the belief that the vary foundations of all public opinion must be laid in the school system; that school superintendents too often allow themselves to become entangled in a maze of scholastic detail, failing to realize that the schools are supported by the money of all the tax payers and that their products should be socially minded young men and women rather than students. He emphasized the necessity of more attention to the study of the social sciences and pointed out that progress in the physical sciences has far outstripped those having to do with social relations. He expressed the belief that the schools must make a greater effort to send out into life the kind of men and women who will be of the greatest value in stabilizing society, so that in case of social unrest and disturbances the intelligent product of the public schools will offer the rallying point for the national defense.

Note. Mr. Hopwood might have added that a knowledge of what correct social relations should be is most easily acquired in a modern gymnasium, on well supervised playgrounds and through well conducted athletics. Some day the great mass of superintendents and teachers will “discover” physical education and use it for all it is worth. Editor.

THE GERMAN UNIVERSITY FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION

By William A. Stecher During the last few years this new organization has grown so rapidly that it may be of interest to know more of it. An extremely well illustrated little booklet by Dr. Carl Diem gives the following information:

The World War, as one of its most serious consequences, brought a great loss of the best leaders in physical education. The regular normal schools, since the war, had enough to do to train teachers of physical education for the elementary schools. The institutions of higher learning were short of trained leaders. Well prepared directors for cities and for the states were hard to get. Active participation in all kinds of sports by great masses of the population created an additional demand for trained leaders. The results of the workings of these factors led to the formulation of a plan by Dr. Diem that eventually created this new institution. The National Committee for Physical Education on October 3,1919, in approving the plan, passed a resolution to organize a University for Physical Education, and it appointed sub-committees to plan the necessary details. The organization took place on May 15, 1920 in the University of Berlin.

The new school is organized as a private institution. It receives a subvention from the national government. It is housed in a building erected for the school immediately back of the large stadium at Berlin. The stadiurafand large pool are used for in-

niniTi-7C»H r\x/V "ll 11 IU It
568

struction purposes. Dr. Bier, professor of surgery at the Berlin University is rector of the school. Dr. Altrock is secretary. The faculty is divided into four departments, as follows:

1.	Physical Education, under the direction of Dr. Klinge,

13 regular and 7 extra teachers.

2.	Health Education, under the direction of Dr. Mallwitz,

7 regular and 11 extra teachers.

3.	Education, under the direction of Dr. Haussler, 3 regular

and 4 extra teachers.

4.	Administration, under the direction of Dr. Diem, 2 regu-

lar and 4 extra teachers.

Eleven of the teachers are engaged full time at the school; the balance are part time teachers from the University of Berlin.

The course lasts six semesters and is divided [into 1) practical work on the floor and in the field, 2) the theory underlying all types of work, and 3) scientific investigation of all problems connected with physical education. For this latter work the following laboratories are at the disposal of the school: a) anthropometric, b) physiological, c) psychological, d) Roetgen ray; also e) a large library.

Besides the work of the regular students the school also conducts special short courses for special groups. Last summer a special course was given for physicians in which over sixty practitioners participated, so that they, through active participation, could learn of the benefits of muscular exercise. A special course was also given to a group of more than fifty teachers of physical education from Holland. Courses of a like character are arranged for groups of teachers from neighboring states.

The regular as well as the extra teachers are engaged in many phases of research work upon the effect of exercises under varied conditions. We may be certain that some of the questions confronting teachers of physical education will be brought nearer their solution by this group of scientists who under very favorable conditions are working with human material undergoing an extremely vigorous course of training.

♦-------------------------------------------------------

("Jymnasium and PLAYGROUN J)

♦-----—	I

CANOE POLO

B. C. Wiggins, Columbus, Ohio.

Object of the Game.

The object of the game is to direct a large ball floating upon the water through'a goal. This is done by means of a pole in the hands of a player.

The players are in canoes.

Digitized by vjOOQIC
669

Playing Area and Equipment.

When the game is played in a lake, the end or goal lines should be marked by anchored crafts or buoys, one at each comer of the designated area. The area shall approximate a 300 foot by 400 foot rectangle. If practicable, wood or cork “float lines” may be used to mark the entire area. When played in a stream, flags should be used on each bank to mark the end or goal lines if the game is played across-stream; or to mark the side lines, as the case may be. The five(5) yard zone at each end should be marked with buoys or flags.

The ball shall be a regulation cage ball or its equivalent, and fully inflated. No substance other than a water proofing material shall be applied to its surface.

The tilting poles shall not exceed ten (10) feet in length, and shall be well padded on one end in order to safeguard the players and to prevent puncturing the ball.

The canoes, three (3) for each team, shall be approximately equal as to size and type. No canoes of the “Sponson” types shall be used unless (1) by mutual agreement of the competing teams, (2) or, in the event of a sufficient number of same (6) to equip both teams.

Personnel Of Crews

Each team shall be composed of three (3) crews, and each crew shall comprise two paddlers and one tilter—nine (9) in all. Each team's craft, or contestants should have a distinguishing mark for the convenience of both the officials and spectators. Officials.

There shall be one starter and referee; two inspectors of boundaries; one timer and two scorers. The starter and referee shall be supreme in authority during the progress of the game, and shall rule upon all fouls, penalties arid goals. The referee and timer should occupy one boat or canoe in order to avoid confusion of signals (whistle or gun.)

Length of Game.

Two fifteen (15) minute periods shall constitute a game. At the expiration of the first period, the contesting teams shall change goals and resume playing ten (10) minutes thereafter on the referee's signal. It is suggested that a game for juniors shall consist of two (2) ten (10) minute periods.

Ball out of bounds.

(1) When the ball is propelled over the sidelines, the inspectors or referee shall replace it in fair territory and the two nearest crews of the opposing teams shall start its progress—bow on to the ball. (2) When within the goal and five yards lines, it shall be replaced in fair territory five (5) yards from the goal line.

Time out.

Time shall be taken out; (1) when the ball is forced out of bounds; (2) when a fair goal is awarded; (3) at the end of the first period; (4) when a capsized canoe blocks or impedes the progress of the ball (5) yards from the goal line (full length of end lines); (6) when a serious accident occurs; (7)

Digitized by * boogie
560

when a foul is called by the referee; (8) when a pole is broken or dangerously damaged.

“Time out” shall in all cases be determined by the referee. Starting Position of the respective teams.

At the start of the game, after each fair goal is made, or a penalty for foul goal or otherwise, the crews of each team shall start from their respective ends of the playing area. The ball shall be placed in the center of the playing area (1) at the begin-ing of each period, (2) after each fair goal, (3) after each foul goal (penalty).

A fair goal shall count five (5)points. A foul goal shall count two (2) points for the team folded. Overtime periods I of five (5) minutes each shall be played if the score is a tie at the end of the regular playing time.

Fouls and penalties.

(1) Tilting at or interfering with an opponent or his canoe: Penalty 2 points (Note: The ball in all cases should be played, not the opponent, as in canoe tilting). (2) Using the hands to advance the ball in lieu of the pole: Penalty—1 point. (3) Advancing the ball by any part of a canoe: Penalty—2 points. (4) Raising the ball by any method from the surface of the water: Penalty—1 point. (5) “Boxing” (enclosing an opponent with two or more crews): Penalty—2 points. (6) The use of the hands, paddles or pole to block or impede the progress of an opponent: Penalty—2 points. (7) Unnecessary roughness, illegal blocking or holding five (5) yards from the goal lines:	Pen-

alty—4 points.

The loss of one or more members of any crew by capsizing or otherwise shall not cause a stoppage of the game.

Exceptions! When a mishap of this character occurs within five (5) yards of the goal line, and the free progress of the ball is impeded thereby. The referee only shall give the signal for a stoppage of the game.

All changes or modifications of the above rules made necessary by peculiar conditions, shall be mutually agreed upon by the competing captains prior to the beginning of the game.

ARITHMETIC GAMES

JFL W. D. Prosser, Salt Lake City, Utah.

In response to the spring call of the out-of-doors, the Prim-aiy Grades of the Grant School, at the suggestion of Principal W. D. Prosser, have a delightfully effective period of Arithmetic Games in the open. The plan has proven to be a very happy combination of work and play, while the souls of both pupils ana teachers are unconsciously breathing in the joy of the springtime. Brief outline descriptions of the various games follow: First Grade—Room 2 Formation: Circle. Each child holds a card bearing a number of colored dots. Numbers from one to seven are used,

Digitized by

Google
661

Problem: Addition

Rhyme:	Hippety-hop,	a	skip	I	take.

Tell me what our numbers make.

Directions: One child is chosen to be “It". He skips around inside of circle, stopping at the termination of the rhyme which the children are reciting. He faces the child by whom he stops. It becomes this child’s duty to repeat the Combination of the two cards (his own and that of the skipper) and state their sum. If correct, the other children repeat, and the two children exchange places and go on with the game as before. When several have had a turn at being "It" they are requested to stoop, thus allowing every child an opportunity to skip. Those stooping, however, are required to take part m the concert recitations of the combinations and rhyme. This holds the attention of all pupils throughout the game.

First Grade—Room 3

Formation: Circle. Each child holds card bearing a number of colored squares. Numbers from one to seven are used.

Problem: Addition

Rhyme:	Hippety-hop,	away	we	go,

Tell us the sum if you know.

Directions: The one who is to be “It” announces, “Here comes three!” (or whatever his card bears) “Get ready for three!’ He skips around inside of circle stopping at termination of rhyme which the children are reciting. He faces the child by whom he stops. Both children strive to be first in giving the correct sum of the two cards. The successful one is the one to skip. When one makes an error he forfeits his card and stands in the center until he can give the sum of the two numbers before either child holding the cards can do so. In that case he wins a card back and the chance to skip next.

Second Grade—Room 4

Formation: Circle. Each child holds card bearing a number of colored dots. Numbers from one to nine are used.

Problem: Subtraction.

Rhyme: Hippety-hop, we all say

How many left when you take me away?

Directions: Each child is chosen to be “It”. His number is announced by the entire circle. He skips around inside of circle stopping at the termination of the rhyme which the children are reciting. He faces the child by whom he stops. It becomes this child’s duty to give the answer, as, “Four from twelve leaves eight”. These two children exchange places and proceed with game as before.

Second Grade—Room S

Formation: Line. Two parallel lines about twelve feet apart, facing each other. Each child in Line A holds a card bearing a number from one to nine. Each child in Line B holds a card

Digitized by
562

bearing the sum of two numbers in Line .A. One child from Line A takes his place midway between the two lines, and facing Line A.

Problem: (Used in Subtraction or Multiplication)

Rhyme:	Hippety-hop,	I	come to your place,

If you know the sum, I’ll run you a race.

Directions: As the rhyme is being repeated by the children the child, in the center skips and stands before some child in Line A. This child takes the hand of the one who approaches him and the two skip and stand at a reasonable distance from the child in Line B whose card bears the sum of their numbers.. This child makes the number statement, as, "Nine and three are twelve”, and then chases the two digits to their own line. If he succeeds in catching one of them, the child caught takes his place between the two lines ready to begin the game again, while the pursuer returns to his place in Line B.

Second Grade—Room 7

Formation: Line. Two parallel lines each composed of a like number of children ready for a relay race. Each child holds a card bearing a number from one to nine.

Problem: Addition

Directions: The two teachers of this room represent the goals to which the children run. Each teacher holds a set of cards bearing numbers from one to nine. At a given signal each leader runs to his goal where the teacher exposes a number from her stack of cards. The number statements are made and these two children take their places at the rear of their line while the second child in each line runs to the goal, makes statement, and passes to the rear of his line. The game proceeds in this way until one of the former leaders takes his place at the beginning of his line. His line is then declared victor. The children realize that speed and accuracy are their only means of winning the race.

Third Grade—Room 8

Formation: Circle. Each child holds card bearing a number from one to nine.

Problem: Addition

Directions: The child chosen to be "It” stands in the center of the circle and says, "I am seven (or whatever his number happens to be.) Who will help me make fifteen?” He may choose any sum to eighteen. In answer to this question, all children holding cards bearing the number eight step quickly to the center. The first to reach the side of the interrogator becomes "It” the others taking their places again in the circle. Alertness of mind and body is the watchword.

Third Grade—Room 9

Formation: Circle. Each child holds a card bearing a number from one to nine.

Problem: Addition or Subtraction.

Digitized by Vi009 1C
663

Directions’. The child chosen to be “It” is blindfolded and stands within the circle. He touches some child in the circle who tells the sum of the two numbers, his own and that of the one blindfolded. The latter, knowing his own number and having been told the sum must tell the number of the other child. If correct, his blindfold is slipped off by the teacher, and he chases the other child once around the circle in an effort to catch him. If he succeeds in doing so, he remains “It”. If he fails, the one pursued becomes “It”.

Third Grade—Room 10

Formation: Circle. Each child holds a card bearing a number from two to twelve.

Problem: Multiplication.

Directions: The child chosen to be “It” is blindfolded and stands within the circle. He touches some child in the circle who tells the product of the two numbers, his own and that of the one blindfolded. The latter, knowing his own number and having been told the product, must tell the number on the other card. If correct, his blindfold is slipped off by the teacher, and he chases the other child once around the circle in an effort to catch him. If he succeeds in doing so he remains “It”. If he fails, the one pursued becomes “It”.

Fourth Grade—Room 11

Formation: Circle. Each child holds a card bearing a number from four to eighteen.

Problem: Subtraction or Addition

Directions: The child chosen to be “It” is blindfolded and stands within the circle. He touches some child who tells him the difference between the two numbers, his own and that of the one blindfolded. The latter, knowing his own number and having been told the difference between them, must tell the number of the other child. If correct, his blindfold is slipped off by the teacher, and he chases the other child once around the circle in an effort to catch him. If he succeeds in doing so he remains “It”. If he fails, the one pursued becomes “It”.

Fourth Grade—Room 12

Formation:	Circle.	Each	child holds a card bearing a num-

ber from one to thirty.

Problem: Addition or Subtraction

Directions: One child is chosen to be the farmer and takes his place within the circle. He steps up to some child in the circle and says, "Have you seen my sheep?” The other replies, “No, how old is he?” The farmer says ,“He is—years older (or younger) than you.” The child tries to locate the one holding the card which bears the sum or the difference as the case might be. The one holding this card begins to run around the outside of the circle pursued by the other child. If the pursuer is successful, he becomes the farmer. If not, the farmer ha^ (ywtlw I turn.
664

ST. LOUIS GRAND ELEMENTARY SCHOOL “MAY DAY"

A Mass Demonstration of Music, Physical Training, Folk Dancing and Athletics. May 29, 1924.

MASS DRILL FOR BOYS

Prepared and Arranged by A. E. Kindervater, Supervisor of Physical Education,

St. Louis, Mo.

Music: “Our Director March” by Bigelow.—Victor Record No. 35204.

Introduction (8 counts)

Boys stand at attention.

PART ONE “Athletic Stunts in Mimetic Form.”

A.	Standing Broad Jump.

1.	1-2 turn left in four steps in place; emphasize knee action „l-4

2.	Raise arms forward-palms in and stand on toes........5-8

3.	Swing arms backward, half knee-bend, body slightly

forward- (heels up)................................9-12

4.	Swing arms forward, jump upward and land in place

body upright 13-15. Stand at 16. Repeat 1,2,3,4...17-32

B.	Basketball far throw with both hands.

1.	As 1 in A............................................1-4

2.	Jump to sidestraddle, bend trunk forward and grasp

ball between feet...................................5-8

3.	Raise ball over head, slightly leaning backward, chest

high ..............................................9-12

4.	Throw ball forward with force, arms obliquely upward, body inclined forward, 13-15-hop to stand 16

Repeat 1,2,3,4....................................17-32

C.	Shotput

1.	As 1 in A..........................................  1-4

2.	Stride right backward, bend both knees, turn body slightly right, bend forward and grasp shot...................5-8

3.	Raise body, place right hand over right shoulder

palm up-left arm obliquely forward up-stretch left leg chest high ........................................9-12

4.	Stretch right arm forward obliquely upward, with force, swing left arm backward and lunge right forward 13-15-retum to stand 16

Repeat 1,2,3,4....................................17-32

D.	Crouching Start for Dash and the Finish

1.	As 1 in A.......................................1-4

2.	Kneel right at left heel, fingers and thumbs of

both hands on the mark..............................5-8

3.	Raise body slightly, weight partly on hands

“Get Set’..........................................9-12

4.	Raise body, Step right forward.

Repeatl,2,3,4 ...............Digitized by<5oagle..17‘32
Ti Represent Boys.	Lineup	of	Eight	Hundred	Boys	in	Open	Order—Facing the Grand Stand.

OtfltfltfltPLiPU'PU'fltPU'

Pm

665

Explanation of Preparations for the Drill.

Pm

Pm

Pm

Pm

P7

Pm

Pm

Pm

Pm

Pm

Pm

Pm

Pm

co

S

<

w

H

W £

ns

h m

5 ©

O

f-H

§

Eh

O

w

CO

fli PmP-(PmPmPmPmPmPmP-(

X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X

X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X

X X X X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

X

c

s

£

a

e

a.

The teams headed by their captains and accompanied by a teacher were seated in a pavillion near the field. At a signal the teams passed down upon the right side of the field and formed five sections, ten teams to a section, the boys standing lined up behind their capatin facing the field lined up for them.

Schools arranged in alphabetical order from A down.

At the second signal the five leading teams run forward upon the field and take position behind their respective flag facing the grand stand. At the third signal all other boys run upon the field and line up with the boys of the leading teams, guided by the flags in front of them. At the fourth signal the music starts and after eight counts the drill begins.

The marking of the field for this drill had to be delayed until all athletic contests were finished and as our time was very limited, preparations had to be based on speed. One strip of canvas, two inches wide and 150 feet long, marked with black crayon, at ten feet intervals, and two other strips of canvas, 60 feet long, marked at six feet intervals, served to obtain this speed. While two men were stretching the 150 foot strips actross the front of the field, four other men stretched the two 106 foot strips down on both sides of the field, at right angles to the one in front. Three men carrying the required number of little flags, ran along the canvas strips and planted one of the flags at each mark. This procedure marked the field with the boys standing ten feet apart in the front, and six feet apart in flank lines. This marking was repeated for the other four sections.

Digitized by VjOO^lC
566

ANTAGONISTIC STUNTS

Boys numbered One and Two. No. One standing on the right.

Interlude of 20 Counts. Boys stand at attention.

A.	Pulling “Handwrestling.”

1.	No. One turn left, march forward toward No. Two. (both grasp each others right hand, shoulder height, and

stride right forward..................................1-4

No. Two mark time and face right.

2.	No. One pulls No. Two toward him, leaning back with upper body, and bending left leg

No. Two leans forward; both raise left arms backward.

......................................................5-8

3.	No. Two pulls No. One toward him, reversing positions..9-12

4.	Both release grasp, turn left and march back to place,

facing front........................................13-16

Repeat l,2,3,4.-No. Two marching to No. One, starting with left foot...........................................17-32

B.	Pushing.

1.	.As 1 in A. Place hands on each others upper arms and

stride right forward...................................1-4

2.	No. One push. No. Two kneel left and lean backward. 5-8

3.	No. two, arise and push No. One, reversing positions.9-12

4.	Both release grasp and march back to place facing

front..............................................  13-16

Repeat l,2,3,4.-No. Two marching to One—steps

out with left foot and starts pushing No. One.......17-32

C.	Wrestling.

1.	As 1 in A.-Both stride right forward and raise arms

sideward obliquely, right up, left down...............1-4

2.	Grasp each others neck with right and elbow with

left hands, lean forward, heads together..............5-8

3.	Release hold,close heels, and raise arms sidewards, as

before ............................................  9-12

4.	March back to place facing front with arms down.....13-16

Repeat 1,2,3,4.- No. Two marching to No. One starting with left foot......................................17-32

D.

Boxing.

1.	As 1 in A. Both start with right foot-square off for boxing-left arm and left foot leading-right arm

guarding ......................................

2.	No. One lead left for head, No. Two guard right.....

3.	No. Two lead left for head, No. One guard right ....

4.	March back to place facing front with arms down.....

Repeat l,2,3,4.-No. Two marching to No. One and

lead left for head .................................

arms obliquely forward up, palms forward “Finish” 13-15 Return to Start 16

Digitized by

Google

...1-4

..5-8

9-12

13-16

17-32
567

HEALTH STUNTS

A.	Trunk bending.

1.	Jump to side straddle stand and raise arms side obliquely upward, palms inward..................................1-4

2.	Bend trunk forward, touch toes, and face downward.....5-8

3.	Raise trunk, bend backward, chest high, arms sideward,

palms up ...........................................9-12

4.	Jump, close heels and lower arms....................13-16

Repeat 1,2,3,4 ....................................17-32

B.	Trunk Swaying.

1.	Jump to side straddle stand and raise arms upwards,

palms inward ........................................1-4

2.	Sway trunk to left and bend left knee.................5-8

3.	Sway trunk to right and change knee bend.............9-12

4.	Jump close heels and lower arms...................  13-16

Repeat 1,2,3,4.....................................17-32

Interlude, 20 counts.

1.	1-2 turn left in four steps in place..................1-4

2.	Jump to sidestraddle, with arms side upward, clapping

hands over head and return—twice.................... 5-8

3.	.As 1 ...............................................9-12

4.	As 2 ...............................................13-16

5.	Stand at attention ................................ 17-20

C.	Trunk twisting

1.	As 1 in B...........................................  1-4

2.	Twist trunk left and bend forward; bend left knee, right

hand touch left foot............................ 5-8

3.	Raise trunk and turn to front kneel right and stretch

arms sideward, head up..............................9-12

4.	Stand, close heels and lower arms...................13-16

Repeat 1,2,3,4. to the right.......................17-32

D.	Leg and back-stretching.

1.	Full knee bend, hands on floor, head	down.............1-2

Stretch legs backward, resting body on hands and toes, head up ..........................................   3-4

2.	& 3. Alternately raise and lower left and right leg from

the floor .......................................   5-12

4.	Draw legs up to full knee bend	between hands, 13-14

Stand ...........................................  15-16

Repeat 1,2,3,4.................................... 17-32

Digitized by LjOOQle
668

At the conclusion of the drill a short pause is made during which the boys stand in attention.

Note:-At first signal from leader, all jump to side straddle with a half turn left and place hand on knees. At second signal, the first team of each section starts to straddle vault over the nine boys in front of them, and when finished the team turns to right ana runs off the field toward their pavilion. All other teams follow, vaulting over those in front of them in succession.

The entire field is cleared in less than five minutes.

MODEL EXERCISES

Arranged by Geo. Haegle for the National Tumfeat held in Chicago.

Ladies Class Peru Turngemeide, Peru, 111. Tactics

Formation: Line of front ranks of fours

Exercise 1.

Counts

The line 12 steps forward	12

The individuals 1-2 turn left in four steps in place	4

The ranks 4-4 wheel left forward	16

Repeat all	82

Exercise II

In the ranks form in front of the right	4

In the ranks form in front by passing right	8

Four steps on place Math 1-4 turn right on first step	4

Four steps forward	4

The ranks 3-4 wheel left forward	12

Repeat all	32

Exercise III

The ranks 1-4 wheel right forward	4

Four steps on place with 1-4 turn left on the first step	4

Eight steps forward	8

1-4 turn left and eight steps forward	8

The ranks 1-4 wheel left backward	- 4

Four steps forward	4

Repeat all	32

Exercise IV

In the ranks form in front of the right by passing in rear	10

1-4 turn left in two step on place	2

Four steps forward	4

The ranks 1-2 wheel right forward with 1-2 turn left on the last step	8

The ranks 1-2 wheel left forward	8

In the ranks form m front of the left by passing in rear	10

Digitized by * UOOC
569

3-4 turn right in two step in place	2

Four steps forward	4

In the ranks form in rear of the left	4

Four steps on place with 1-4 turn left on first step	4

Open ranks to the left by marching forward	8

After drill is finished, close ranks to the center 8 counts, 1-4 wheel left-4 counts, 3 steps forward turn and march off.

Wand Drill (Winding)

Music; 4-4 time or 6-8

Each exercise is done left and right and then repeat left and right.

An intermission of 32 counts between Group 1 and II

Group I

Lunge left forward, raise arms forward......................1

Hold position ............................................2-4

Close left to right, wind left in forward position..........5

Rise on toes, unwind left, wind right to upward position....6

Hold position ............................................7-8

Lunge left sideward, unwind right and wind left sideward.. 9-12 Straighten knee, 1-4 turn left, raise right leg backward, unwind left wind right to vertical position right hand high (bal-

lance stand).............................................. 13

Hold position ..........................................14-16

1-4 turn right, lunge right sideward, unwind left and Mind

right sideward..........................................17-20

Unwind right, wind left to forward position................21

Rise on tow, mnvind left, wind right to upward position....22

Hold position ..........................................23-24

Lunge right forward, lower arms forward and unwind right

...........................................................25-28

Close right to left and lower arms fore downward........29-32

Exercise II

Lunge left sideward, wind right to sideward position........1

Hold position ............................................2-4

Close left to right, unwind right and wind left sideward....5

Bend knees deep, swing left arm over right to crossed position.. 6

Hold position ............................................7-8

Straigthen knees, lunge left forward, swing left arm sideward, unwind left and wind right obliquely backward_9-12

Straighten left knee, raise right leg backward, unwind right,

raise arms fore-upward, (balance stand).................13-16

Lunge right backward, wind left obliquely backward.... 17-20

Unwind left and wind right sideward........................21

Bend knees deep cross right arm over left..................22

Hold position ..........................................23-24

Lunge right sideward, unwind right and wind left sideward

...................................................25-28

Close right to left, wind left to position..............29-32

Digitized by Google
570 Exercise III

Layout left backward, raise arms foreupward...................i

Hold position ............................................. 2-4

Close left to right, wind left, left arm forward, right hand

over left shoulder............................................5

Bend trunk forward, unwind left, wind right to vertical

position right hand high..................................... 6

Hold position ..............................................7-8

Straighten trunk and unwind right.............................9

Lunge left forward, wind left, left arm forward right hand

over left shoulder...........................................10

Hold position.............................................11-12

Raise left knee, unwind left, wind right to oblique position

in rear left elbow high (balance stand)..................... 13

Hold position.............................................14-16

Lunge left forward, unwind right, wind left to forward position right hand over left shoulder................17-20

Close left to right, unwind left, wind right to vertical position and bend trunk forward.......•..................21

Hold position ............................................22-24

Straighten trunk, layout left backward, unwind right to

upward position both arms.................................25-28

Close left to right and lower arms foredownward...........29-32

Exercise IV

Bend knees deep, wind left and wind right arms to forward

position .....................................................1

Hold position ..............................................2-4

Straighten knees, unwind right and left in forward position

and then wind right sideward..................................5

Lunge left sideward, unwind right, wind left sideward.........6

Hold position ..............................................7-8

Straighten left knee, 1-4 turn left on heels unwind left and

wind right sideward........................................9-10

Bend right knee, unwind right, wind left obliquely backward ...............................................11-12

Straighten knee unwind left, wind right obliquely backward, bend trunk half forward, raise right leg backward,

(balance stand) .............................................13

Hold position.............................................14-16

Straighten trunk, lunge right backward, unwind right,

wind left obliquely backward..............................17-18

Straighten right knee, unwind left, wind right sideward 19-20 1-4 turn right on heels, bend left knee, unwind right and

wind left sideward........................................21-24

Close left to right unwind left, wind right sideward____25-26

Bend knees deep unwind right, wind left and right to forward position, (both arms)..........................27-28

Straighten knees unwind right and left and lower arms foredownwards.......................................29-32

Digitized by Google
671 Group II

Exercise I

Lunge left forward, wind left to horizontal position over

left arm right hand over left shoulder..........................1

Hold position ................................................2-4

Close left to right, release right hand, circle wand forward

inside of hand..................................................5

Regrasp wand, wind right to horizontal position over right arm, left hand over right shoulder ............................6

Bend knees deep, unwind right wind left to vertical position

in front, right hand high....................................7-8

Lunge left forward, unwind left, wind right to oblique

position in rear...............................................9

Hold position .............................................10-12

Raise left leg forward, unwind right and raise arms upward... 13

Hold position, (balance position)..........................14-16

Lunge left forward, wind right to oblique in rear .........17-20

Close left to right, bend knees deep, unwind right, wind left

to vertical position in front right hand high..............21-22

Straighten knees unwind left, wind right to horizontal position over right arm left hand over right shoulder......23-24

Lunge left forward, release grip of left hand, circle wand inside of hand, wind left to horizontal postion forward over

left arm, right hand over left shoulder....................25-28

Close left to right, unwind left to position...............29-32

Exercise II

Lunge left sideward, wind left sideward......................1

Hold position .............................................2-4

Close left to right, unwind left, and wind right sideward...5

Bend knees deep, unwind right and wind left sideward.........6

Hold position ............................................ 7-8

Straighten knees, release left grip, 1-2 circle with wand to the left................................................  9

Place right foot obliquely backward, regrasp wand, wind

right to vertical position right hand	high...................10

Hold position ............................................11-12

Raise right leg sideward and bend trunk left (balance stand).. 13

Hold position ............................................14-16

Straighten trunk, place	right foot	obliquely in rear.....17-20

Close right to left, lower right arm sideward, release grip of left hand, 1-2 inch outward right, regrasp and wind left sideward ..........................................21-22

Bend knees deep unwind left and wind right sideward___________23-24

Straighten knees, lunge sideward unwind right and wind

ift sideward .................................................25-28

lose left to right and unwind left to position...............29-32
572

Exercise III

Lunge left forward, wind left and right to upward position of both arms....................................1

Hold position ............................................2-4

Close left to right, release grip of right hand, 1-1 horizontal

circle over head and regrasp................................5

Lunge left sideward, wind right obliquely side downward and

turn head right looking down at end of wand.................6

Hold position ............................................7-8

Close left to right, release grip of left hand, 1-2 circle to the

right and regrasp...........................................9

Place right foot obliquely in rear and wind left backward

wand horizontal............................................10

Hold position ..........................................11-12

Raise right leg sideward and right to vertical position (balance stand) ..........................................13

Hold position ..........................................14-16

Place right foot obliquely in rear and lower right arm backward, wand horizontal .............................17-20

Close right to left, release grip of right hand, circle wand

backward and regrasp.......................................21

Lunge left sideward, wind right obliquely side downward

turning head right and look down at end of	wand............22

Hold position ..........................................23-24

Raise arms fore upward, release grip of left hand 1-1 horizontal circle over head and regrasp...................25

Lunge left forward, wind left and right in upward position.. .26

Hold position ..........................................27-28

Close left to right, unwind right and left to	position..29-32

Exercise IV

(Slow winding movements with balance positions)

Raise left leg forward, wind left arms	forward............1-4

Carry left leg sideward, unwind left and wind right sideward ................................................5-8

Carry left leg backward, unwind right, wind left both

arms upward..............................................9-12

Raise knee forward, unwind left, wind right to oblique

position in rear .......................................13-16

Straighten left leg backward, unwind right and wind left

both arms upward........................................17-20

Carry left leg sideward, unwind left, wind right sideward. 21-24 Carry left leg forward, unwind right, wind left both arms

forward ................................................25-28

Lower leg and unwind left to psoition	29-32

Repeat right, left, right.

On the last time to the right instead of carrying left leg forward on 25-28, cairy right leg backward	unwind left, wind

right to vertical position and bend trunk forward to forward balance stand ...................................................25-32

Digitized by kjOOQle
573

WAND EXERCISES FOR LADIES AND ACTIVES OF THE MOLINE TURNER SOCIETY, MOLINE, ILLINIOIS

Arranged by H. Wamken for the National Turafest held in Chicago.

Music “The Whip”.

1st Group Exercise 1

Actives—Layout left backward wand in front of chest

Ladies—Tip step right forward wand fore upward.	1-2

A.—Tip step left forward wand upward

L.—Layout right backward wand in front of chest	3-4

A.—Lunge left sideward swing arms right sideward and left obliquely side upward. Right hand in front of left shoulder L.—1-4 turn right lunge right forward, bend trunk forward swing right arm under left shoulder left arm down, wand under left arm	5-8

A.—1-4 turn right, change knee bend, bend trunk forward, swing right arm under left shoulder left arm down, wand under left arm

L.—1-4 turn left change knee bend, swing left arm upward and left obliquely side upward, right hand in front of left shoulder	9-12

A.—Tip step left sideward, swing wand foreupward L.—Tip step right sideward, swing wand down & foreupward 13-14 Close and lower	15-16

1st Group Exercise 2 Actives—Bend knees, raise wand forward

Ladies—Raise on toes, swing wand in rear of shoulders	1-2

A.—Straighten, raise on toes swing wand m rear of shoulders L.—Bend knees swing wand forward	3-4

A,—Layout left backward, swing wand forward and left arm obliquely backdownward right arm in front of left shoulder L.—Raise, and lunge right forward and swing wand upward 5-8 A.—Lunge left forward and swing wand upward L.—Layout right backward swing wand down and right arm obliquely backdownward left hand in front of right shoulder 9-12 A.—Tip step left forward wand forward

L.—Tip step right forward, swing wand forward	13-14

Close and lower wand	15-16

1st Group Exercise 3

Actives—Tip step left forward, cross arms in front of chest Ladies—Place right foot backward and kneel right swing wand upward •

A.—Swing left foot backward and kneel	svrit^^^d [upward
574

L.—Raise and tip step right forward, cross arm in front of chest 8-4 A.—Raise 1-4 turn left and fall out left forward swing wand right sideward and left oblique fore upward right hand in front of left shoulder

L.—1-4 turn right fall out right forward swing wand down and obliquely foreupward	5-8

A.—1-2 turn right reverse knee bend, swing wand down and oblique fore upward L.—1-2 turn left reverse knee bend, swing wand down and left

oblique foreupward right hand in front of left shoulder 9-12 A.—1-4 turn left tip step left sideward, swing wand down and fore upward

L.—1-4 turn right tip step right sideward, swing wand down and fore upward	13-14

Close and lower wand	15-16

1st. Group Exercise 4 Actives—Bend knees and swing wand vertical in front left hand high

Ladies—Tip step right sideward, swing wand left sideward right hand in front of left shoulder	1-2

A.—Raise and tip step left sideward swing wand right sideward left hand in front of right shoulder L.—Replace right foot bend knees and swing wand vertical in front right, hand high	3-4

A.—Layout left backward swing wand down and left side upward right hand in front of left shoulder L.—Raise and lunge right forward bend trunk forward, swing right hand under left shoulder, left arm down	5-8

A.—Lunge left forward bend trunk forward swing left hand under right shoulder, right arm down L.—Straighten and layout right backward swing wand right side upward left hand in front of right shoulder	9-12

A.—Straighten, tip step left forward and swing wand forward L.—Tip step right forward and swing wand down and forward 13-14 Close and lower wand	15-16

Pose 16 counts. Rest 16 counts.

2nd Group Exercise 1 Actives—1-8 turn left tip step left forward, swing wand left side upward right hand in front of left shoulder Ladies—Layout right oblique back inward swing wand left sideward right hand in back of head	1-2

A.—1-8 turn right layout left obliquely back inward swing wand down and right sideward left hand in back of head L.—1-8 turn right tip step right forward swing wand down and right side upward left hand in front of right shoulder	3-4

A.—1-4 turn left lunge left forward swing wand downward and vertical in front left hand high L.—1-8 turn right lunge right forward lower right arm forward and swing left hand over right shoulder ^ i	5-8

Digitized by CjOO^IC
575

A.—1-2 turn right change knee bend, swing wand downward and right arm forward and left hand over right shoulder L.—1-2 turn left change knee bend, swing wand downward and vertical in front, left hand	high	9-12

A.—1-4 turn left tip step left sideward and swing wand down and fore upward L.—1-4 turn right tip step right sideward and swing wand down and fore upward	13-14

Close and lower Wand	15-16

2nd. Group Exercise 2 Actives—Lunge left forward, raise wand forward.

Ladies —Layout right backward swing right arm obliquely back downward left hand in front of right shoulder	1-2

A—Layout left backward swing left arm oblique back downward right hand in front of left shoulder L —Lunge right forward swing wand forward	3-4

A.—1-4 turn right layout left sideward bend trunk right in line with left leg swing wand fore upward L—1-4 turn left bend trunk right in line with left leg swing wand down and left sideward and cross arm in front of chest 5-8 A.—Change knee bend, bend trunk left in line with right leg swing wand left downward and cross arms in front of chest L—Reverse knee bend, bend trunk left in line with right leg swing wand left downward and upward	9-12

A—1-4 left tip step left forward swing wand forward L.—1-4 right tip step right forward swing wand forward	13-14

Close and lower wand	15-16

2nd. Group Exercise 3 Actives—Tip step left oblique fort outward, 1-8 turn of body left swing wand vertical in frouc, left hand high Ladies—Layout right oblique back iaward 1-8 turn of body right swing wand left oblique side downward in rear of left shoulder left hand down and right hand over right shoulder	1-2

A.—Layout left oblique back inward 1-8 turn of body left wand right oblique side downward in rear of right shoulder right hand down and left hand over left shoulder L.—Tip step right oblique fore outward 1-8 turn of body right swing right arm down and wand vertical in front right hand high	3-4

A.—Lunge left sideward, bend trunk right swing wand down and left side upward right hand in front of left shoulder L.—1-4 turn right fall out right forward swing right arm down and place wand under left shoulder and left arm. Left arm oblique back downward, swing right arm oblique foreupwd. 5-8 A.—1-4 turn right fall out right forward swing left arm down and oblique back downward wand under left shoulder and left arm swing right arm oblique foreupward L,—1-4 turn left change knee bend, bend trunk left sideward swing

Digitized by ^ boogie
576

left arm downward regrasp wand with right hand and swing wand right side upward. Left hand in front of right shoulder	9-12

A.—1-4 turn left tip step left sideward swing left arm down regrasp wand with right hand and swing wand fore upward L.—Tip step right sideward swing wand down and fore upward 13-14 Close and lower wand __________________________________ 15-16

2nd Group Exercise 4 1st Part Actives—Step left foot backward, close right to left swing wand fore upward Ladies—Step right foot forward close left to right swing

wand in front of chest	1-2

A.—Step left foot sideward close right to left lower wand in front of chest

L.—Step right sideward close left to right swing wand upward 3-4 A.—Lunge left sideward swing wand down and left sideward right hand in front of left shoulder L.—Lunge right sideward swing wand down and right sideward left hand in front of right shoulder	5-8

A.—Change knee bend and swing wand down and right oblique side upward left hand in front of right shoulder L.—Change knee bend and swing wand down and left oblique side upward right hand in front of left shoulder	9-12

A.—Tip step right sideward swing wand down and fore upward L.—Tip step right sideward swing wand down and fore upward 13-14 Close and lower wand __________________________________ 15-16

2nd Group Exercise 4 2nd Part Actives—Step right sideward close left to right swing wand fore upward

Ladies—Step left sideward close right to left swing wand in front of chest	1-2

A.—Step right sideward close left to right lower wand in front of chest

L.—Step left backward close right to left swing wand up	3-4

A.—Lunge right forward swing wand down and right sideward left hand in front of right shoulder L.—Layout left backward, swing wand down and left sideward right hand in front of left shoulder	5-8

A.—Lunge left forward, swing wand down and left oblique side upward right hand in front of left shoulder L.—Lunge left forward swing wand down and right oblique side upward left hand in front of right shoulder	9-12

A.—Tip step left forward swing wand down and forward L.—Tip step left forward swing wand down and forward 13-14 Close and lower wand	15-16

Repeat first part Actives to the right and ladies to left. Repeat second part Actives to left and ladies to right.

Pose 32 counts.

Explanation

Each exercise to be done 4 times, twice to each side,

Digitized by Google