MIND AND BODY

Vol. 35	MARCH, 1929 No.	376

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN. EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pint, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-claes matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 8, 1879.

Original articles and reprint§

THE IMPORTANCE OF RECEPTIVITY IN PHYSICAL

EDUCATION.

Translated from “Die Leibesuebungen” by William A. Stecher

In an article in the Scandanavian ”	Tidsschrift”	Nov.

6,	1928, Dr. D. Rancken reports upon results of researches that should be of great interest because of their bearing on the effects of physical training. Dr. Rancken is teacher of physiology in the University of Helsingfors, and for more than twenty years has been publishing the results of his researches in the domain of Mechanic-therapeutics.

He says that blood is the “elixir of life” without which life cannot function. Because of this, there is a tendency to ascribe an exaggerated effect to the change in the volume of blood brought about by special exercises. While admitting that there is a change, he says that this is so transient that it can have no great effect. A realization of this fact led to researches as to the quantity of blood changes brought about by all forms of exercise. This, in turn led to an examination of the conditions during other “large” physiological functions.

Digitized by Google
406

As a starting point to determine the significance and importance of any kind of exercise upon the “large” functions, Rancken took as his basis the minimum amount of blood circulation that is necessary for life. He takes this to be 5000 liters of blood that the heart propels daily; approximately 70 times the body-weight. This is the minimum for the resting body; work increases this volume. During medium work the volume is five times greater and during hard work it is still greater. The working body-part is increased in volume, but this increase is due principally to the increased rush of blood through the arteries; no great change takes place in the blood distribution of the body.

In comparison with the total number of pulse beats during a whole day, the increased pulse rate during a gymnastic lesson is so small that it can have no special significance. The author also shows how erroneous it is to speak of increased metabolism as an “aim” in muscular work. He says that increased appetite is based upon a changed disposition of the nervous system. Investigations of other functions brought similar results. However, the author is convinced that muscular exercise would not lose the smallest part of its value even if it did lose its immediate effect upon the “large” functions. The real effect must be brought in other directions. It was, however, difficult to find other fundamentals. The nervous system was studied and conclusions were arrived at showing that the effect of exercise upon the nervous system was the decisive factor. This explanation cannot, however, be fully accepted.

To be healthy, our organs demand not only that they be kept in a suitable environment and temperature, but also that they receive their proper stimuli in sufficient number. The cells receive their stimuli from nerve centers; these centers however must receive their stimuli from the sense organs (the tools of the sensory organs).

It is only recently that the great effect of sensations upon our well-being has been recognized. Without this being perceived immediately, such sensations act as stimuli: as inhibitions, as depressants, etc. And as the frame of mind, the spirit, has a great influence on all body-functions, it can readily be seen that sense-perception, and any encroachment upon this, can have a decided effect upon our well-being.

Here is the starting point for a correct definition of the aim of physical exercises. This is good health with its resultants of capacity for work and good spirits. The decisive value of exercise is to be found in the strength of definite sense-impressions, powers of observation, etc. aroused by them.

The author then describes the researches undertaken to determine by means of a hand dynomometer the effect of sense impressions upon muscle-strength. They embrace not only the effect of exercise, but also of massage, baths, ultra-violet light, air, temperature, altitude, music, odor, pain, hiking.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
407

His conclusions relative to the effect of exercise upon mental accomplishment are that all sense impressions have a definite and decided influence. So far as the effect of physical training is concerned, he says, the development of the mental centers and of mental work is promoted only if this physical training work is done under conditions that permit perfect enjoyment with fullest concentration upon the exercises. Hiking he classes of the highest value, and sitting (if this may be called an exercise) as of least value in the promotion of thinking.

To create the feeling of strength, the desire for work, and of health, the central nervous system must continually be stimulated (whipped). It is a pity, says Rancken, that we have not progressed far enough to comprehend the significance of the means that are at our disposal to favorably influence sense impressions, so as to free us, partially at least, from the ill effects of an unfavorable climate, of means that allow us unpunished to live an unhealth-ful, sitting-room life. So far we have not been able to find the type of exercise and exercise-combinations, also of interferences, that are best for the regulation of our sense impressions.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN INDIA

By A. D. F. Thomason, Capt. 6th D. C. 0. Lancers

This subject is so vast in scope that it is difficult in a few pages to give even a general idea of the present state of physical education activities in India—or to more than touch on the great field for expansion that lies in the future as a channel for bringing into being the widespread and universal education of the whole population of this country.

This short outline will be presented under two main headings:

(a)	Military and (b) Civil.

The ultimate object of both these channels is to reach the youth of the nation and mould them, whilst they are still pliable and receptive, into a fit mental and physical state to carry out the heavy duties that befall a nation in the making.

Of the two channels of Physical Education there is no doubt that the civil side has the greater scope for effecting its purpose nationally—for only very few of the 300,000,000 inhabitants of the land join the Army. A second advantage that the civil has over the military is the fact that it can deal with the female as well as the male portion of the population. It cannot be stated too strongly that through the sane physical education of the girls of India, the whole prosperity of the land, the physique of the population, and the blessings of increased health and virility lie. It is through the influence of the mothers that the upbringing of the children is most affected. Hitherto the womenfolk have not enjoyed much say in the matter and have perforce been content to follow the dictates of the male. Now, however, that the old

Digitized by
408

order is changing, comes the opportunity to put into play the invaluable and moreover universally pleasant subject of Physical Education in all its varied forms.

With a view to making physical education a part of the curriculum of normal education, legislation has been undertaken in Bombay, and it is hoped that the other Provinces of India will follow suit. To be of full value physical education must be recognized as a special subject requiring specialist and qualified instructors, the same as for any academic subject taught in schools. It will be found to be the basic foundation and the accompanying recreation to all education no matter what its form.

Since the best established branch of physical education is at present in the Army, where the organization and discipline permits a greater facility for its control and application, it is proposed to commence this article with the objects of and the system used in the Army.

Military Physical Education

In India, the recruit when he joins is between the ages of 17 and 22. He comes into a totally different environment. He does different work. He comes in contact with discipline of a rigorous kind. Few recruits have had contact with British Officers prior to recruitment. The atmosphere of thought is different. Work is plentiful and varied. The uniform is different from the loose clothing of the country, and ammunition boots are heavy compared to the light gurgarbie (slipper) or the bare feet to which the man is accustomed. Finally, all the words of command in military training are English, so that the recruit whether literate or totally uneducated (as still is often the case) must learn a certain number of words in English and their meanings. Few people have to undergo such a metamorphosis as does the recruit in the Indian Army.

Prior to the World War, it was not at all infrequent for Indian Officers to be illiterate. Today, however, the amount to be learned is greatly increased in order to keep pace with the lessons of war, and its scientific progress. Now no soldier receives even the first stripe of acting rank till he has passed at least his third class certificate of education. The recruit of today has much to learn in the short eight months of his training.

The duties and the training of the army have a very definite object: the defeat of the nation's enemies during war. The whole training of the recruit is to the end that the army may be an efficient machine in carrying out this object. The present method of military training has proved itself very efficient. The method of physical education has therefore been modelled to aid in the further efficiency of the system in use. It endeavors to prepare the physique and the mental alertness of the recruit for the military subjects that must be taught in the period of training allowed before actually joining the ranks. Physical education is the natural go-between in the absolute change from home life to the physical exertion and mental quickness that characterise all the
409

duties of the modern soldier. It possesses a different type of discipline to that of drill. It permits freedom of movement in light clothing—for mostly in India recruits have their physical training periods stripped to the waist and in bare feet and legs. It enables each man to indulge in natural athletic action moulded to suit military needs. It is the time when agility, neatness and quickness of decision and execution, cleanliness, coordination of movements and consequent conservation of energy, performance, endurance, and many other qualities can be impressed upon the individual’s receptivity with tangible and self-evident results. In the training given under the physical education instructor, every exercise, game, and action is given with a military object held in view. These objects are continually being impressed upon the recruit performing. Just as a boxer throughout his training is always visualising what each portion of his training represents in his actual fight on the big night, so too is it the endeavor to keep the recruit always thinking of the military object of each action in his physical training.

It is laid down in all Service Manuals that the recruit at the commencement of his course of training will undergo a period of physical education to fit him for the duties that lie before him. Therefore, all recruits of whatever branch must do physical training in amounts varying according to the subjects to be taught in that branch.

This training consists of the following subjects:

(a)	Setting-up and suppling exercises that are set out in Table Cards, 8 in number, each with alternative exercises under most of the muscle groups, and each graduated in increasing difficulty throughout the eight months during which the recruits are training. The first object of these Tables is to get good carriage as a natural possession of each recruit. Throughout the training no matter what its heading may be, particular attention is paid to the mental development of the individual. This is attained through quickeners, games, progression, and the gradual assumption of the powers of leadership throughout the training. In the performance of the exercises the squads are kept small, and subdivided into four teams each. The exercises then are made competitive for either position, for action, for rhythm, for unity of movement, for control, and for the general working of the team. Secondly, all the elementary marching formations of foot drill up to a certain standard of evolutions are taught. Thirdly, discipline is very rigidly adhered to. In the tables each and every type of muscular movement is included, and those requiring special attention are stressed by repetitions in later exercises of the Table. For instance, the Indian on account of his habit of wandering about barefooted is more often than not inclined to walk on the flat of his feet. For this reason the agility exercises are in very great proportion to the rest of the exercises. Interest in the performance of these tables is enhanced by the inclusion of games and quickeners at intervals. Frequently, various forms of exercises that are difficult to the British are easily performed by the

Digitized by kjOOQle
410

Indian on account of the suppleness of his limbs and joints; e. g., in ground work (tumbling) tne ability to bend his limbs under him will permit him to land on his feet after a handspring, with very little spring being required from his hands and arms, and no coordination of movements and timing of spring.

(b)	Athletics of all sorts, such as high jump, long jump, stride jump, pole vault, shot put, hammer throw, track events, etc., are part of the training. Indians often make exceptionally good long distance runners.

(c)	Games such as football (association), field hockey, basket ball, etc., are included. The game of basket ball serves two purposes. Firstly, in the recruit’s training it is the first opportunity in most cases to initiate the spirit of team play of any description. It also is used as the basis for teaching quickness in action and anticipation—accuracy in catching, aiming and passing— obedience to the referee and the code of sportsmanship,—and above all unselfishness in play.

For this reason the rules used in America are slightly modified for use in India. Dribbling is not allowed, in order to necessitate frequent passing. The catching of the ball in both hands is stressed to prevent wild play, assist in accuracy and control of the ball, and to do away with open-handed and therefore haphazard passing where the two-handed catch is possible. A penalty is given for the infringement of this rule.

The second purpose of basket ball is when it is played by Trained Soldiers whose period of recruit’s training is over. The object of the game being different, wider and less rigid refereeing is possible. All units play this game,—particularly up on the frontier where space for football grounds, etc., is not available— where too much kit cannot be taken,—and where there are a large number of men to cater to in games, and there is not much time to carry this out. Waziristan District runs a tournament which no less than 70 teams enter.

(d)	Gymnastics exists to the extent of the rope, the vaulting horse, the beam for balance or for heaving (chinning) exercises, and the floor mats for ground work, which includes such things as handstands, upstarts, backflips, hand and head-springs, etc. The more advanced style of gymnastics including horizontal and parallel bars, etc., is not encouraged for the recruit as it is inclined to bunch the muscles, and give abnormal development not necessary in the normal duties of the soldier. It is frequently carried out in units after the soldier has completed his recruit’s training, as one of the many forms of athletics to which the Indian is so attached. They make really remarkable performers at this latter type of gymnastics.

(e)	Track and field events are taught and instruction given in coaching. Physical Efficiency Tests are given to all recruits periodically in both these events, and also in gymnastics. There are four degrees in each type of Test. In this manner encouragement is given to all to progress in performance in all events during the period of being a recruit. The record ability in each
411

event is hung up in a public place for all to see, and in this manner the competition between men, and even between the performer and his own record, is keen. The record is dated each time a man passes another standard in any subject, and thus every man’s progress can be immediately followed.

(f)	Tabloid Sports. This is a form of sport wherein a number of events is chosen equal to, or more than, the number of teams competing. Each team has an equal number of members. Each event chosen takes about the same time to complete. In each event such a standard is set, that some contestants shall not pass it. Each competitor has only one chance at each event and therefore either gains or doesn’t gain a point for his team. Each team has as team leader one of the recruits who is performing. Each team according to instructions goes to a different event, and on a general signal all teams begin their various activities at the same time. They also finish at about the same time. The boardman takes down the number of contestants of each team who have passed in their respective events. Then at another signal all teams move clockwise to the next event, starting the activity directly they have reported to the judge in charge and have received his instructions. In this manner in a very short space of time each team will have been the complete round of events and the result can be obtained. In most cases the events finish with a relay race in which all teams can compete at the same time.

The advantage of this form of recreation is that if taken periodically, and the standards in each event are raised each time, the general state of progress of the recruits can be guaged at a glance. The events are not confined to athletics alone, but may include any sort of training, such as Musketry, Signaling, Saddling, Arms Drill, Fire-orders, Writing Messages, etc., etc.

(g)	Lectures are not frequent as it is always best to teach the uneducated through the eye rather than through the ear. However, lectures include simple hygiene, the natural functions of the body, organization and rules of games, and such like.

(h)	General. In all things the main idea is to give a substantial grounding in every matter that will help the man to be good at his duties, and to enjoy the life upon which he has entered. Throughout the physical educational period, opportunities are given for each man to bring out his capabilities at leadership, and in helping others. Throughout the training, weights are taken periodically as an indication of the results of the training, and as a guide toward any special modifications necessary to suit each individual. The Medical officer periodically inspects the recruits from his own point of view in addition.

Instructors. The problem of supplying instructors is a very difficult one. It is essential that Indians be taught by those who can speak their language, and who will take a real interest in each recruit throughout his training. The present system provides for each unit to send N. C. 0. ’s to the Army School of Physical Training in Ambala, in the Punjab. There they can qualify in.
412

the method of instructing recruits in the Tables mentioned in preceding paragraphs and also in coaching in all other subjects that come under tne wide heading of physical education.

It is because the qualified instructor is a man of so little ex-

?jrience, and often of very little education also, that set-piece ables are necessary. These tables have been planned on scientific lines on the “work and rest” principle, and though they may be executed poorly they must on the whole foster the natural development of the recruit both mentally and physically. The time that the instructors are qualifying at the School is so short that little more than the method can be shown in that time, and experience has to be gained during the actual instruction of the recruits themselves. To supervise these Non-Commissioned Officers in their work of instruction, each training Centre has a British Officer qualified in physical education. It is through these channels that changes in the detail of the programme to suit individuals or classes are made.

The physical educational staff at each Centre has no other duty than the instruction in physical education of the recruit. Each N. C. O. will take as many as five different sections a day, each section being composed of different types of men in different stages of training. For India this is the best method to suit the circumstances, as it insures this important subject being taken only by qualified instructors along scientific lines.

The results obtained by this form of training, when working under the difficulties that exist, are proving its excellent value. Having definite objects to fulfil, it is less difficult than is the case with civilian individuals of both sexes. Each man recruited into the Army is physically fit from the organic point of view at the time of his arrival. He only needs to be prepared and developed for the special physical demands that Army life makes upon him —and to be brightened up and made alert, self-confident, and orderly in all his doings.

The “Carry over” value of their training is very evident in individuals in all ranks of the Indian Army, when they go on pension or reserve. Through this channel, with a little more general interest and acknowledgement by all Officers of the value of physical education a very active and useful means of spreading the benefits of this training to all villages could be obtained. Men going on pension could insist on their families taking an intelligent interest in the joys and benefits of games, etc. The little that was learned about hygiene and the functions of the body could be brought into play in the upbringing of the children. In this and many other manners the gospel of Sana in Sano would prepare its own harvest.

That the system used in the Army should be brought into use in the Civil Schools without any alteration, is not the intention of the writer. The circumstances are different and the objects less specialistic. However, if the Army could give retiring physical education instructors practice and training in the methods to be employed in the civil schools, it appears that the ex-

Digitized by CjOOQle
413

perience gained during the years of recruit training could be turned into good use in the villages. Until such a time as well-educated men of keen intelligence and good performance are available for the duties of school instructors, it is better to have ex-Army men than none at all. As it now stands Regimental Schools in many instances have their children taken in physical education (the children’s curriculum issued by A. H. Q.) and in this manner experience with children is even now being gained.

Trained Soldiers Exercising

Having thus briefly outlined the Physical Education of recruits, it may be of interest to know how trained soldiers are looked after.

Firstly, it is understood that the life of a soldier is an active one that necessitates much time being spent in the open air. The training which includes trench digging, rifle drills, and other means of exercise such as marching, running, and crossing obstacles, are all of them fulfillments of the training that physical training has been leading up to. In themselves they ensure the physical fitness of the soldier. It therefore is of paramount importance that physical activities shall not omit the necessity for mental alertness.

Every evening in India will find all the men who are not em-

?)loyed on Regimental or other duties out on the hockey field, the ootball field, the basketball court, or indulging in some form of sport. Generally, then it can be said that there is no need to fear for the physical activity of the men. There come times, however, where there is scant opportunity for the normal pleasures of Cantonment life. On the Frontier on small post, on board ship, during the monsoons in hill stations, etc., frequently the only means for a few days at a time is to take organized training tables made out on the same lines as those mentioned previously but with a different object. Whereas the former were setting-up exercises, the trained soldiers Tables are exercising Tables. The mode of taking them is quite different in that position is subservient to the amount of exercise that can actually be obtained. Movements are continuous and rhythmic and to the full extent of the parts exercised. The whole Table can be completed in 15 minutes, at the end of which every muscle group and organ has received all that is required. These Tables are normally conducted by ordinary Section Leaders, and do not require qualified supervision. All section leaders in the Army are required to know how to exercise their sections in these Tables. In addition to these Tables such things as obstacle courses, roadruns and walks, etc. with other forms of maintaining the necessary standard of general fitness are given at intervals to maintain interest and provide variety. In all branches of Army physical education, the brightening and quickening of the mental qualities of the soldier are of equal importance with the building up of the physique and the perfecting of the functioning of the organs.

Digitized by CjOOQle
414

Civil Physical Education

The importance pf physical education is being recognized, and Directors of Physical Education for Provinces are being appointed. The Punjab has a well organized system running. The United Provinces for some years have been interested in devising the most efficient and serviceable system they can. Indigenous systems have been studied along with Western ideas and soon a widespread organization should be in being. Well-educated students have been sent to the Carnegie School of Physical Education in Dunfermaline, with the idea that they will form the nucleus for the training of the many instructors that will be required to deal with the millions of the United Provinces.

Madras has the services of Mr. Buck, of the Y. M. C. A., and is rather further advanced in this work than many other Provinces. Assam is about to start.

In general, therefore, it will be seen that the value of this subject has been realized and matters are moving. Bombay Presidency is very advanced in the widest sense of physical education. It possesses a more modem and progressive population than many parts of India.

Bengalies are much disposed to athletics, and in addition rank high in intelligence. With the common acceptable ground of such an embracing and interesting subject as physical education far-reaching effects should be possible in the development of contentment among the masses.

Punjabees are very keen on all forms of sport. They are of finer physique than the natives from further East. There is a great cry for physical education everywhere in India, but at present there is a leaning toward the drill only. Friendly rivalry on the field of sport is conducive to the general enjoyment of good health and physical fitness. It will also create an esprit de corps among the various sections of Indians, and people will soon learn to appreciate the benefits of daily exercise and the resultant self-discipline, mental alertness, cleanliness, morality and sense of honour. The common ground of national affection for all children should unite not only the school authorities and the children but also the parents and the public in this universal bond. Attention to physical education should not cease when the child eaves school, but opportunity should be given to the grown up to continue to enjoy the harvest from the seed sown at school.

Left to himself the Indian is fond of such sports as wrestling. Each village will be found to have its wrestling schools and its pits. However, frequently it will be found that the professional wrestler who gives instruction in such schools is poorly educated and therefore haphazard in his method of instruction. Those wishing to learn the art of wrestling go to such instructors and receive training that is unscientific and often detrimental to the heart and other organs of the youth.

Digitized by LjOOQle
415

Private schools of physical education are open in various parts of India, but in nearly every case they are modelled on the now discredited Sandow system. The Indian is a worshipper of personal prowess and ability. Gradually he must be weaned to the wider sense of impersonality in the field of general benefit,— then will he be excellent and invaluable as student or instructor.

There is no lack of skill in the indigenous games of India. However, they are mostly based on the glories of individual advancement and a means of heroworship. A reputation goes a very long way! Indians take to Western forms of sport in marvelous fashion. The Indian Field Hockey team winning at the Olympic Games this year is but one indication of the way they can outshine the originators of a game. As acrobats, gymnasts, and athletes, they are hard to beat. Seldom however is it that one meets an Indian who realizes that physical education in its widest form is more valuable as a general and widespread basis to national prosperity than as a specialists means of earning a livelihood for the few who are exceptional performers.

Wherever there is a Military Cantonment, a Civil College, or a School, there will be found fields for all types of games either for the troops or for those taken up by the Indians. Even private followers arrange games among themselves. Regimental Bazaar Children turn themselves into quite skillful players at all games by simply watching others play and by fielding balls. The eye of the Indian is famous for its accuracy. The wit to improvise is not lacking either. In Meerut the annual Sweepers “Polo” Tournament is of great importance to that fraternity. Cut-down polo sticks, an old ball, ana “shanks ponies” are the only requirements. It is a matter of great seriousness and invitations are sent far and wide to people to come and watch the finals.

Where such genuine interest is gotten from such humble facilities, there is no danger of a lack of response to good leadership and general physical education.

The value of a modicum of discipline, whether that learned through games or through Army requirements, is unquestionable. However, is it really necessary to stress the militaristic part of marching and drilling to the extent that is the desire of most of the Indian Gentlemen who are sponsoring the advent of physical education. The national desire to be able to defend India when self-government is an established fact is both natural and laudable. Training toward the accomplishment of that end should not be denied. But it should not become necessary for the general rule to be the production of a militaristic nation, and for the youth of India to be fed from infancy on military drill and lore. Sane mental qualities, adherence to the main object in view and sensible shepherding of the people through troublous times will often eradicate the cruder means of settling disputes—that of physical force.

Physical Education with its guiding hand—its building ability —and its lifelong helpfulness from the earliest youth to the last
416

days of the individual, should produce the widest results in the most pleasant of ways. It should be the nursery governess. Just as the character of the youth is moulded by the acquaintances of his early days, so will physical education always keep this in mind in the fulfillment of its NATIONAL TRUST.

AN INTRASCHOOL GYMNASTIC MEET

By Grover W. Mueller

The values of extra-curricular intraschool activities and contests need not be discussed here. It is generally recognized that these activities comprise a highly desirable and important part of the physical education program.

An interclass gymnastic meet was recently conducted as a part of the afterschool program of physical activities by the teachers in the Oliver W. Holmes Junior High School in Philadelphia. This school is known far and wide as one of the first junior high schools in the United States. It is housed in a remodeled elementary school building in which the gymnasium space and equipment is very limited. How a successful and worthwhile gymnastic meet may be planned, organized, and administered in a school even under such handicaps as have been referred to, is described in the following paragraphs.

Interpretation Of Terms

In order to facilitate ready interpretation of the data presented, the delimitation of several terms is necessary.

Grade—The usual interpretation holds. A pupil in seventh grade is in the seventh school grade of work.

Class—This term is to be taken as the semester division of the grade. Thus 7—A stands for the first semester class of grade seven, and 7—B for the second semester class.

Section— The class is divided into sections each of which contains about 40 pupils, 20 girls and 20 boys. Thus a 7—A class may have several sections, girls and boys combined. This accounts for several teams in each class.

It is further to be noted that this project included both boys and girls. A separate gymnasium was used for each sex and the events were conducted simultaneously in both places.

A—Initial Procedure

The department of Physical and Health Education in the Holmes Junior High School is represented by five instructors, two women and three men.

At a regular meeting of the department, October 26, 1928, it was agreed to conduct interclass gymnastic meets on December 12, 13 and 14, in the seventh, eighth and ninth grades respectively-

Digitized by kjOOQle
417

B—General Aims

1.	To stimulate greater interest in the class apparatus aims.

2.	To include boys and girls from every section in the school.

3.	To make use of squad work and leadership opportunities as they exist in the regular class work.

4.	To provide for daily afterschool practice periods under the supervision of the instructors.

5.	To encourage a large number of pupils to practice daily.

6.	To solicit the interest and cooperation of the principal, of other teachers in the school, and of tne parents.

7.	To give recognition to outstanding team and individual work in as many ways as possible.

C—Organization And Administration

I—Pupil Participation In The Organization of the Program

The initial plans of the instructors were presented to the pupil leaders at their regular weekly meeting. The suggested program met with the hearty approve! of this group.

The program was actually put into effect by the leaders’ club which adopted resolutions embodying the following points:

1.	Events: mats, horses, ladders and climbing ropes.

2.	Selection of exercises; the required class aims designed for "excellent” rating on the mats, horses and ladders, as given out by the department of Physical and Health Education of Philadelphia for the Junior High Schools; also rope climbing, to be rated on a time basis.

II—Number Of Exercises

The exercises for the girls differed from those of the boys with the’exception of rope climbing in which time was taken for all.

Thus there were four exercises for the girls and four for the boys, one each on the mats, horse, ropes and ladder.

With six classes (7 A, 7B, 8A, 8B, 9A and 9B) the number of exercises for mats, horses and ladders, amounted to thirty-six. Adding to this number the rope climbing we have a total of thirty-seven exercises.

Ill—Team And Captain Selections

1.	By vote, each section chose from among its members a team of four individuals to represent it.

2.	Each team then chose its captain.

IV-Rating Of Exercises

Excellent performance.........................9-10	points

Good performance...............................7—9	points

Satisfactory performance.......................5—7	points

Poor performance .............................3—5	points

Very poor performance ........................1—3	points

Decimal division of points was permitted.

In the case of rope climbing the time was transposed into points

Digitized by CjOOQle
418

V.—Honor Awards

A—Team honors

The boys team and the girls team, regardless of grade, with the highest total rating (2 teams)

2.	Within each grade, the boys teams and the girls teams ranking highest and second highest. (6 teams)

3.	The best team on each piece of apparatus, (4 boys teams and 4 girls teams).

B—Individual honors

1.	The individual all around highest scorer of the school (one boy and one girl).

2.	The individual highest scorer of the school on each piece of apparatus, (5 boys and 4 girls)

3.	The individual all around highest scorer within each grade. (One boy and one girl in each of the 7th, 8th and 9th grades).

D. Supervision

I—	The Principal’s Part

1.	To approve the plans.

2.	To provide each teacher of the school with a copy of the plans.

3.	To send a copy of the plans to the Director of Physical and Health Education.

4.	To send copies of the plans to the principals of the other Junior High Schools of the city.

II—	The Physical Education Instructors’ Duties

1.	To supervise and manage the daily practice sessions

2.	To supervise and direct the final meets.

3.	To secure capable judges.

III—	The Duties Of Other Instructors

The project was used as a subject in English instruction. Pupils were urged to write letters to their parents, extending invitations to them to attend the meets.

Summary Of Data

(Showing the days and the number of grades, classes, sections, teams and individuals in the meets)

No. of	No.	of	Total	No.	of

Section# Team# No. of Individ-Boys Girl# Girl# Boy# Teams uals

7—A Class		6	6	6	6	12	48
7—B Class		6	6	6	6	12	48
Thurs. 8th Grade						
8—A Class		7	7	7	7	14	56
8—B Class		6	6	6	6	12	48
Fri. 9th Grade					12	
9—A Class		6	6	6	6		48
9—B Class		4	4	4	4	8	32
Combined Totals 		35	35	35	35	70	280

Digitized by CjOOQle
419

A RATIONALE OF HEALTH EDUCATION.

Wherever the fading afterglow of the evening sunset soothes the mind to better things, wherever the slow-waving pines whisper the message of the breeze, wherever the time-old mountains call the thoughts to the majesty of God, or wherever the rhythmic incoming or receding waves proclaim He reigns supreme, are nestled homes and houses of men and of the children of men. Homes spacious and palatial, homes tiny and lowly—houses that are mansions—houses that are hovels. In the homes and houses are little children or ones grown tall. In the homes they are so wreathed with bright, fanciful silken strands of love intertwined with golden threads of truth, purity and wholesome living that they grow to manhood and womanhood making the generation better than its forbears. In the houses the children are so left in ignorance that in many instances there are blighted lives, clouded brains, dwarfed souls that never in all the world can attain full stature, nor reach the shining goals of endeavor which in the Divine plan they were meant to attain.

Where does the responsibility lie? In whose hands shall the final commendation or judgment be placed? Some parents are the salt of the earth and the glory of the Kingdom of Heaven; they do the best they know. Some are busy chasing the mirage which leads into the desert of wasted days; some are careless, lazy, or so absorbed with the climb to position, power, or achievement that they take no heed of the needs of the children. All in greater or less degree need education, guidance, inspiration that shall lead them to health and better living, fair footpaths to happiness and peace.

Every health officer who dreams of imparting knowledge of good health habits, then places the solid foundation of action under his dreams, every nurse, teacher, principal and superintendent who carries on a successful school health program, every man and woman who accelerates health procedures by precept, example, effort and achievement is dealing in futures which bring returns, priceless and immeasurable.

There is need for an awakening to the greater necessity of a more definite child health and an intensive nutrition program in North Carolina—a need that can be filled when every intelligent, patriotic citizen in this beautiful commonwealth has a consciousness of what health means to our girls and boys who in so short a span shall be taking a place in life outside the school—a place filled nobly or in less degree according to the instruction they receive while their minds are receptive, their bodies plastic, their souls untrammeled and serene.

A few years ago—1924-25—there were thousands of failures in the schools of North Carolina. A survey conducted in New York, upon the causes of failures among school children reveals. *

*Reprint from North Carolina Health Bulletin.

Digitized by
420

that 85 per cent of the failures are due to remedial physical defects—undernourishment is classed as a defect—and to colds which in most instances could have been prevented. We talk of money expended for education; how many of us think of the money needlessly spent to educate repeaters? It is needlessly spent because the vast majority of these repeaters with defects remedied, good health habits established, make their grade year by year, thereby materially decreasing the number of failures in school.

Where does the responsibility lie? It lies in bringing every undernourished child to a healthful standard, in keeping the well child healthy. This is an obligation to be shared by the educators in the schools, the parents in the homes, the health departments, state, city and county, the practicing physicians in the community. When these function efficiently, cooperate harmoniously, school health conditions in our State will place us in Class A, along with our good roads, bank deposits and tax returns.

It is our belief that the greatest problem in health education in North Carolina today is the undernourished child. An incomplete survey reveals the fact that 42 percent of the children in some counties are seriously underweight. An undernourished child is potentially a sick child with a good chance of contracting tuberculosis. “The Nation’s Health,” July, 1925, contains the following authoritative statement: “One of the primary elements in the comprehensive ten-year program of tuberculosis control now being carried out by the Massachusetts State Department of Health is the thorough examination, by a competent specialist in tuberculosis, of every child found to be markedly underweight in the routine weight and height studies conducted in the schools. The results, as reported a year ago in the "Journal of Outdoor Life,” were somewhat sensational. They indicated that 8 per cent of those children who were found to be 10 per cent or more underweight by the Wood standards were definitely tuberculous. A similar study has recently been made by the Milbank Demonstration in Cattaraugus County, which offers a substantial confirmation of the Massachusetts findings, the proportion of tuberculous cases in the underweight group being tnis time 7 per cent.

Such results offer evidence of the substantial value of the weighing and measuring campaign and indicate an unusually promising line of effort for the anti-tuberculosis worker.

To keep in mind that loss of weight is one of the first effects of tuberculosis is to give the child a fighting chance. In an undernourished child tuberculosis bacilli are placed in a favorable soil. Colds, lack of rest, over fatigue are the concomitants of a starved body. They give the needed stimuli for the growth and dissemination of germs. In examining an undernourished child it is well for us to keep in mind the questions:

1.	Does he tire easily?

2.	Is he nervous without sufficient cause?

3.	Is he subject to frequent colds?

Digitized by CjOOQle
421

4.	Has he a poor or variable appetite?

5.	What does he eat?

6.	How does he eat?

7.	When does he eat?

8.	What are his habits of elimination?

After a medical examination reveals no tuberculosis infection, the most effective of all means at our disposal to save these undernourished children, is through the teaching of proper nutrition, putting these precepts into practice and training in habits of sufficient sleep and adequate rest.

Weighing and measuring is but an index and a nutrition program would be very incomplete that used this procedure as the only guide in solving the problem of undernourishment. It is something in which a child is greatly interested and to which he sometimes will respond when other stimuli fail. It is the experience of health officers, nurses and teachers that where there is a scale in the school, the children can be aroused to a high enthusiasm for gaining. Watching the weight line is fascinating and in many, many instances creates a desire to do the things that will make the individual “free to gain.” The habits of taking balanced meals at regular intervals, sufficient sleep, proper rest periods, of inculcating wholesome mental attitudes, all these have been the outgrowth of placing a scale in a school and using it intelligently.

Shall we take for one of our slogans this year, A scale in every school?

HEALTH AND THE NEW BEAUTY.

By Helena Lorenz Williams

Four or five years ago, the thinner we were the more beautiful we thought ourselves. It was the day of the boyish form and tubular dresses, when curves were destroyed and angles were won by fasting.

But that has all changed now. Femininity, and with it more weight are in the ascendancy. Not broad hips and thick waists, to be sure, but well covered bones and trained-down muscles. With these come the grace of line and movement that are the essentials of classic beauty. It is not an easy ideal to achieve, but the effort to develop it rewards us not only with good looks but with improved health and resistance against disease.

The most important factor in attaining the new feminine figure is a well-balanced diet. Now that it is no longer fashionable to be bony, we can eat the good substantial starches, such as potatoes, macaroni and bread, though in limited portions; otherwise, the danger of overweight will confront us. Starches must not be more abundant in the diet than the green vegetables, such as spinach, string beans, kale, cabbage and cauliflower. The

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
422

latter contain the vitamins that provide us with energy, growth and nourishment for the nerve tissues. Cream sauces, cereals and butter are no longer taboo. They may add a pound or two, but milk is the most perfect food, cereals are rich in heat producing carbohydrates and butter needs no recommendation, since its source is milk. Indulgence in pastries and other fattening sweets, however, should be offset by fruits. Fruits stimulate the digestive functions and are more valuable to the body than rich, heavy cakes and puddings. Salads are excellent in that they supply us with salts and vitamins and roughage for the system. Fish is a very nourishing food that most of us neglect too much in our diet. Meat once a day is sufficient except for people who do heavy muscular work. Eggs are an excellent meat substitute; moreover, they are not fattening and they contain most of the food elements the body requires. Those who are fond of soups can now return to them; they add little weight and in return supply the body with fuel from vegetables, milk and meat.

Another important item in the pursuit of beauty is exercise-Not every woman has the time or the means to go to swimming pools or to play tennis and golf. But all of us can exercise at home in our own bedrooms. Mechanical exercises may lack interest and thrill, but when they are done rhythmically to a good tune on the radio or victrola, they are amusing and even exciting, especially if more than one member of the family does them at the same time. Walking is still considered good exercise, as it brings all the muscles of the body into play. There are a number of exercises that will develop the muscles and give the figure grace and suppleness. They can be learned at a reliable gymnasium, such as the Y. W. C. A. Also, several insurance companies issue illustrated booklets describing them. Women who have any functional disturbances or physical defects should first consult their physician as to the kind of exercise they can take. But some form of daily exercise is essential to the physical well-being of most of us, especially in these days when vacuum cleaners, washing machines and other labor-saving devices make physical effort in housework comparatively light.

Rest and fresh air are two factors that are too often disregarded by the modern busy woman. Sooner or later our dispositions, health and good looks are sure to suffer seriously without them. “That tired feeling” is not laziness, it is fatigue, and one should learn to relax completely a few minutes at intervals during the day in order to renew one’s store of energy. At least half an hour a day should be spent outdoors, even if only to do the family errands. And, of course, we should sleep with windows open, even in cold weather.

According to statistics of the National Tuberculosis Association, the death-rate from tuberculosis among women between the ages of from 15 to 30 is higher than it is for men. Nor has the death-rate decreased for this age period during recent years as much as it has for children and older women. This condition is

Digitized by LjOOQle
423

attributed to various causes, but some specialists believe that among the contributing factors have been the tendency of young women to burn the candle at both ends and their efforts to be thin.

HEALTH EDUCATION IN HIGH SCHOOLS—A PLEA FOR

THE PRACTICAL

By A. Gertrude Jacob

Like the nineteen centuries which have passed into history, the twentieth century is developing its own particular problems. Civilization in marching onward leaves in its wake new conditions, new theories of education and new standards of home responsibilities. Life is more complex. In large cities human beings are becoming cave-dwellers in apartment houses; automobiles are doing away with the necessity for walking even short distances; delicatessens and canned foods lighten the burden for housewives but fail to supply all nutritive needs; children are much more sophisticated than they used to be; teachers are being molded to fit the particular pattern of the school; student contacts with teachers are practically lost; and principals do not really know their own teachers.

Life cannot be changed. Wage earners will remain in cities in order to be near their work. Depopulate tenement house districts today by luring families to the country, and tomorrow they will be back in their old quarters or else new families will have taken their places. We must strive, then, to meet conditions thru education rather than try to change the unchangeable. We must face the life of the twentieth century and aim to meet its requirements by twentieth century measures, not measures which functioned for the nineteenth century or will function in the twenty-first century.

When sweeping changes in the home were made as a result of women entering remunerative occupations, children were the losers. While woman's sphere was narrowed down to the four walls of the home it did mean that a mother cared for her own children as no stranger hands could ever do. Mother and home are inseparable. Mother love is the strongest tie in home life. When mother is away from home the greater part of the day, therefore, the child cannot but miss something which, by every natural law, belongs to him.

Since women will never return to the old standards of living how is this want to be supplied? Educators, realizing the situation, are trying to devise ways and means to meet it. We see this in a more liberal interpretation of the curriculum; in the provision of community centers; in increased playground facilities under trained supervisors; in physical, medical, dental, and mental examinations in schools; in school lunchrooms; in nutrition

Digitized by Google
424

classes for undernourished children; and in the recognition of the fact that health habits must be established thru the knowledge of what they mean, rather than thru arbitrary regulations regarding them.

While we are far ahead of other countries in actual classroom instruction upon health habits, the world at large is adjusting itself to new standards of life, and especially so since the intermingling of races as a result of the World War. In 1926, when visiting in both South Africa and Australia, I was impressed with the ideas there expressed that the United States of America knows how to teach health education better than any other country. “You have the better way because you give classroom instruction as well as look after physical defects. What is the use of filling teeth for children unless they are taught how to care for their teeth and prevent new cavities from forming?”

Does not that thought strike home? Have we not marked students as failing in physical education who have not had remedial physical defects corrected such as poor posture, unclean hair or unkempt fingernails, without giving the theoretical knowledge as to how the defects should be overcome? As a high school teacher it took me years to understand the necessity for giving instruction upon those simple matters which used to be taught in the home. Our pupils do not know how to care for their nails or their teeth. They have hazy and even superstitious ideas about bathing. They are eager to learn about food and food combinations. They want to know just simple, everyday procedures for the maintenance of health. Until specialists are given control of the health work in the elementary schools we are going to continue having to reduce health education to its simplest terms in high schools. Over and over, for example, I have asked the question as to where we find putrefying food refuse in the body, to be met with the answer “in the stomach.”

One day a girl gleefully told me that she had just escaped an attack of pyrrhoea. She had been so impressed with a lesson upon care of the teeth that she immediately sought her dentist. Our physical education department is splendidly organized. Teeth examinations are made by dentists. Defective conditions are followed up. This girl was not a first year student. Doubtless she had passsed more than one dental examination. What then was the trouble? Probably there were two reasons:

1.	Our school is so overcrowded that examinations have to be hurried.

2.	There is no connection between the classroom instruction in health and the work in the gymnasium. Hygiene is taught in the biology department under teachers who are scientifically trained with a bias toward the teaching of disease, germs, vaccines, and serums, rather than definite health procedures, with the exception of the writer, (who holds a license in physical education). When hygiene was transferred to the biology department she asked to be transferred

Digitized by ^.ooQle
425

with it. She has learned at first hand, therefore, how widely

the scientific and the practical points of view differ.

This difference was demonstrated last, year in New York. A committee was appointed composed of biology and physical education teachers to formulate a syllabus for the first year in hygiene. The result was a smattering upon almost every phase of health work. It embraced civics, biology, bacteriology, psychology, medicine, physiology, physical examinations, and first aid. One lesson out of twenty-nine was to be entirely devoted to the study of the endocrine glands. Imagine trying to teach immature high school students the value of something of which the medical profession is not sure as yet! Does not such teaching tend to make introverts? Even medical students are apt to develop the symptoms of the diseases of which they study. A girl consulted me one day about the advisibility of stopping or controlling the function of her pituitary gland. She felt sure that it was overworked and causing too rapid growth. She was very serious about it when she wanted to know whether I thought that it would do any harm to have growth in height and weight checked. Why did she not go to the biology teacher from whom she had received detailed instruction? Do not students turn to physical education teachers in time of trouble? They are to the school what physicians are to the community and they should have control of all definite health work.

Biology teachers had ample opportunity to teach health long before P. E. teachers were given classrooms in which to teach. They failed, as was very clearly shown by the fact that over fifty per cent of the men drafted during the war were unfit to serve. Their laboratory methods of health teaching did not meet the needs of students. Health is an ideal and not a subject. It cannot be taught by biological methods. A child must understand the principles if he is to form health habits and those principles must be reduced to the simplest terms. Physical education teachers were not credited with having as “cultural” a background for teaching hygiene as had biology teachers. Yet with the results of the War draft before us, society at large wakened to the fact that physical education must receive greater recognition. It was then that other departments as well as biology began to claim the right to teach health education.

It is true that we did give too much time to the purely physical. It was what was demanded of us. Show work pleased principals, interested audiences, and added financial value to school entertainemtns. We aimed for the goal of publicity, we had to fight for the recognition of our subject. We, therefore, concentrated upon new ideas of athletics, folic and esthetic dancing, or other forms of exercise, at the expense of theoretical courses. We could not enlarge the work when our superior officers did not know its value. Hygiene was tossed from one department to another and, without classrooms in which to teach;
426

there was no incentive either to specialize in or to fight for it as well as for active physical education. Nevertheless when, as in New York State, the teaching of hygiene became compulsory, P. E. teachers blazed the trail along practical lines.

The time has come when the need for unifying health education teaching is apparent. New York took a step in the right direction when it appointed a DIRECTOR OF HEALTH EDUCATION instead of PHYSICAL EDUCATION. A director of health education should be a graduate of some recognized physical education school and then the departments equipped to handle special branches could function under one central head. Hygiene should go to the physical education department and theory be made to support practice. Nutrition belongs in the domestic science field where students may work with foods. This is far more effective than blackboard nutrition. Home nursing should be given under nurses who have had special pedagogical training. It must not be forgotten that hospitals deal primarily with the sick and mostly adults. Health education deals with children who are supposed to be in normal health. Never should their minds be centered upon disease. Physiology could be taught either in the P. E. or the biology department. Elementary biology gives a fine background for understanding the aims of health education. First aid might be given either by P. E. teachers or nurses.

The classroom teaching of health education is in its infancy. It has untold possibilities. Every department in the high school should contribute something. English could help by assigning health topics for compositions. Elocution teaches voice training and deep breathing and so does singing. Chemistry bears upon body nutrition. Science, thru the study of the mechanics of breathing and of exercise makes a distinct contribution to health education. Languages offer a splendid opportunity for information upon the health habits of other countries. History shows how health practices have come down to us thru the centuries. Would not studying about the men who have given contributions to controlling disease and suffering, be just as important as studying about war heroes? Civics deals directly with health matters in housing and food supply.

Unifying a health program, however, can never be accomplished until principals and supervisors see the real need for teaching health education. It is easy enough for an educator to sit at his desk and work out theoretical schemes of education based upon psychological reasons for the way in which students ought to respond. It is another matter for the classroom teacher to apply those ideas to training young minds. Yet is it not the classroom teacher who must pass judgment upon any program as being possible or impossible? More and more the truth is being recognized that textbooks written by classroom teachers based upon actual experience are best for pupils.
427

I so thoroughly believe that the classroom offers the best educational workshop, that four years ago I gave up a position as chairman of a girls’ physical education department which I had held for nineteen years, in order to devote my time more fully to the classroom teaching of health education. My life’s experience had shown me many weaknesses in the technical presentation of books. Students are not interested in the dry, mechanical facts of physiology and anatomy. Why should they be? We have neglected to give them instruction upon common, everyday matters because we have felt it to be too elementary for high schools. As a matter of fact, elementary school teachers are not trained to be health education teachers. Normal schools have only just made a beginning toward instructing in practical health habits. Many of them do not know of the depth of ignorance which we meet in high schools, or even in adult life.

One day while traveling I became interested in listening to a young mother who was seated near me. Evidently she had just come from the office of her physician. In a most surprised voice she was telling a friend that the doctor had told her that “baby should have a bowel movement every day”. That is in line with the ignorance of the girl who informed me that that it was only natural for her to have evacuations every few days. Doubtless nurses in clinics could duplicate such stories many times over.

It has been said that high school students should be interested in the physiological and anatomical aspects of health education. Go to the classrooms, my learned friends, and experiment before you give expression to such opinions. High school students are interested in the things which function in daily life and we teach health habits for life and not merely for an adult idea of a rounded out course of study. I would rather be sure that my students knew the value of cleaning the teeth than that they memorized the names of the different teeth. Experience has taught me that teaching of health education, for the present at least, should be made as simple as possible; that if a definite outline of daily helps have been given in the elementary schools that same outline should be elaborated in high schools, for health habits do not change; and that students, themselves, should furnish the motivation for health topics.

Adults see and judge by adult standards and not the standards of students. Recently, I offered two prizes for the best posters illustrative of any phase of health education. I wanted to get material and also to obtain the students’ ideas of what posters were of most value. Of those submitted I mentally decided upon one that represented the danger of fire. A young man was throwing away a cigar. Behind him and towering above him was a figure dressed in black with red hands and a red face. Underneath were the words, “Fire is but one step behind the careless smoker.” I believe in class participation, however, and the decision was submitted to the students for decision by vote.

By an overwhelming majority the students’ first choice was a large poster representing some small children rolling a large

Digitized by kjOOQle
428

ball of snow evidently preparatory to making a snow man. It was explained by the legend: “Fresh air, Wintertime. The Best Time of All.” The second choice was that of some kewpies resplendent in brilliant dress, with swords in evidence, guarding a box of cereals.

The rhyme read:

“All the riches of which we boast,

This box of cereals we treasure most,

The diamonds and jewels we hand to our wives,

But this box of cereals we guard with our lives.”

City children do not get out into the open to make snow men. Kewpies are but products of the imagination. Men with cigars are every day incidents. What then was the appeal? Play, color, life! What have children, even high school students, to do with grimness and death!

Have not too many textbooks been written and illustrated, not for students but for adult ideas of what appeals to students? Do we remember what made an appeal to us when we were at high school age? Like many other teachers, I confess to being interested in the “Skippy pictures” which are appearing in daily papers. Would you, my scientific friend, descend to reading them? Let us be human even though we are teachers! Would not teaching be more effective if manuscripts were experimented with before, rather than after publication. Will health education teaching ever become what it should be if not couched in language simple enough to make an appeal to the slow student who needs it tne most?

Recently I placed the following upon the board and asked for nameless answers so that students might be quite free to express themselves without fear of what might result.

1.	Either you are or you are not interested in hygiene.

State why.

2.	Would you like to have hygiene as a prepared major

elective coming five times a week?

663 out of 679 answered that they were interested. Is there any other subject in the curriculum which keeps the interest of over 97% of students? The second question checked up upon the first. If students were really interested I felt that they would want to have hygiene on the same basis as prepared subjects. 432 or 63.6% answered that they would like the change. The three following reasons for interest were given:

332 were interested in learning more of the health, functioning, or well-being of the body.

120	were interested in first aid as a means of service to others.

121	liked hygiene because of its practical bearing upon their present and future lives.

43 sensed the possibilities of being able to combat disease by learning how to care for the body.

41 liked hygiene because of its personal interests.

Digitized by v^ooQle
429

7 wanted it because of its bearing upon their future careers. There were a number of other reasons given which would take too much space to tabulate. An idea of the range of variety may be obtained from the following answers:

“I think that question quite unnecessary because everybody is interested in hygiene. Why? Because after all isn’t hygiene the thing that directly and conspicuously concerns us only?”

“I am interested in hygiene because it aids people to live purer, healthier, lives. What can surpass a person who is physically healthy as well as mentally? Despite this, there is one thing to which I greatly object and that is making hypocrisy out of hygiene. For instance, we are told to get ample sunshine and many posters we have on our walls stating ‘ample sunshine!’ when the hygiene teacher knows very well that the best part of the day is spent in the crowded school building and then we have about two and a half hours of home work. How in the world can we get ample sunshine with such a routine? Therefore, I think that those, who attempt to teach hygiene should first make sure that the student's life is such that they can practice what they are taught, otherwise hygiene is useless.” (What are we teaching!)

‘‘I think that hygiene is a very interesting subject. I say interesting because it deals with such matters that are necessary for a girl to know, especially a young girl. If a teacher of hygiene would talk to the girls about such matters as their own personal habits they would be doing more than merely talking about experiments. For after all a girl is—or should be, more interested in her welfare than such matters as experiments. Many girls are ignorant about many vital matters, matters they are ashamed to talk of, even to their own mothers. I would suggest, therefore, that all talk be such as will interest and be of benefit to a young girl.” (Biology teachers, please note.)

“I am interested in some parts of hygiene lessons. I think a lesson on care of the fingernails is worth more than a lesson on how much air to breathe. If only things pertaining to the interests of the girls were taught I am sure hygiene would be better liked. It would be much nicer to listen to the care of the skin than to 20 cubic feet of air.”

‘‘I am interested in hygiene because I want to learn more about the care of the human body, not only for myself but to devote these ideas to my parents who do not go to school now and to my younger brother and cousins who are not yet studying these hygienic principles.”

“I am interested in hygiene because it is not a ‘dead subject’. By a ‘dead subject’ I mean one like French or Spanish which is of no use to you until you go to a place where they speak that language.”

“The purpose of school as I understand it is to prepare for life. Of all the subjects we are studying I think hygiene is doing the most to accomplish this object.”
430

“I am not very strong and have suffered greatly from every disease. At this present instant I have a headache. I would like every teacher interested in this subject so that they would open the windows and give us more air.” (I wish every teacher could read that comment!)

“Hygiene concerns our health, our happiness, our living. It is needed at all times because it is constantly in use in our everyday life.”

“I am deeply interested in this study of Hygiene. I would be very glad to take Hygiene as a major five times a week. I am quite an unhealthy and weak little girl and I am trying in many ways to become healthier and stronger. This subject teaches me how.” (Should not this make a strong humanitarian appeal? Cut out other subjects if necessary but give handicapped children the instruction that will prepare them for life.)

"A great man has said that it is fitting that we learn something new	each day. It has also been said that	students	do	because they	go to school for that purpose. I personally	do	not

think so.	What good will latin, math, etc., do	me if I	do	not

know the	things which are of first importance	to me.	I look

forward to Tuesday because it is the day that I go to my Hygiene class in which I am sure that I will learn the matter of Health. Every Tuesday when I come home I tell my mother of the new subject and she is interested, surprised and happy. My mother has no time to educate me in these vital matters and in that way hundreds of girls are left in total ignorance. Therefore it is a blessing to many girls that Hygiene has been established in the high school but it has not been established firm enough. Hygiene should be a prepared major and should be had five times a week.” (The girls evaluation of her subjects is shown by her use of capitals!)

Some of the reasons given for not wanting hygiene as a major subject follow:

“No, for some girls have no room on their programs for electives and would lose the benefit of even one period of hygiene. I know that my program is filled and I possibly couldn’t squeeze in hygiene although I would wish to do so.”

“No, I would not like it five times a week because it would be too much like other subjects. For this reason I look forward all week to the hygiene period. If we had it five times a week I am afraid that it would become commonplace.”

“While the subject is given in oral discussion it is interesting but once written work is started it becomes as monotonous as any other prepared subject.”

"We nave been accustomed to having hygiene only once a week and if we were given five periods of it we would soon tire of it and consider it another drudge. No.”

In analyzing the answers received I was impressed with the nearness of the thoughts expressed to modem educational psychology. The great majority were interested because of a desire for making the most of a healthy body. Those who did not want

Digitized by kjOOQle
431

hygiene as a prepared major subject have various reasons for not doing so, but the most prominent one seems to be FEAR. They enjoy the subject now and they do not want it spoiled by the things which they dislike in other prepared subjects.

My own ideas of what students should be taught as health education have been revolutionized since I began to make a definite study of what they lacked in home education. At the end of each term for years I asked them to give me in writing what they had been able to make most use of from their hygiene lessons. Topics were then experimented upon until I had a basis for a complete course of study. Outlines for this course were published in MIND AND BODY and reprinted in April, 1923. Letters from all over the country proved conclusively that other teachers of health education were also sensing the need for that kind of practical instruction which aims to prepare students for life.

We cannot overlook the fact that all students have not been trained alike. Biology students, for example, have a better groundwork than have those who have never studied biology or physiology. Some high school students have no training either at home or at school; others have had a smattering along the lines of health education; while a scattered few have had a foundation upon which a teacher might build.

I now have a letter box upon the wall of my classroom into which I ask pupils to drop any question they wish answered. I ask that the hygiene class be given but not the name of the student. In this way fear is removed and the student is sure of getting an answer. Although I have tried to reduce health education instruction to its simplest terms I have been amazed at the amount of ignorance upon health topics which many of the questions display. Because students come from well-to-do homes is no guarantee that they are taught health practices. Adults cannot teach what they themselves do not know. Hygiene was not taught in a practical way when the parents of the present generation were in school. Even teachers of health have rather hazy ideas upon some of the simplest measures for,—combating disease—for example. Only the other day I heard a biology teacher telling another teacher what to do for a cold. Part of the treatment outlined was to go to bed, pile on covers and keep the WINDOWS CLOSED. If the patient could not do without air she was to open the window just a few inches!

This term I was assigned a class of forty upper grade boys, who had had two terms of biological hygiene. As a class their finger nails were dirty and unkempt. I informed the boys that I would insepct fingernails with each lesson and asked if they would like to have instruction in manicuring before taking up the regular work upon first aid. They were enthusiastic about it. Some of those boys did not know what the cuticle was nor why it should be pushed back. One was so interested that he came back the next day to know whether he had pushed back his cuticle far enough. Several of the boys are looking forward to

Digitized by (^.ooQle
432

studying medicine. Certainly well-cared for hands are an asset in life but a necessity in the medical profession.

I quote the following from the Medical Journal And Record from an article upon Narcissism:

“Everyone knows that a nervous, nail-biting person is less apt to practice his habit if his nails are smoothly ana professionally manicured. The principle works just as well in the mental hospital and, though it is a trifling matter, it is a step in the right direction. A well-manicured hand is more likely to be kept clean than a slovenly hand and this again means something.”

If psychoanalysts find that pride in persona] appearance may have an effect upon changing the attitude of a mental sufferer, may not arousing such pride be the means of awakening some latent force in a boy and girl?

There is a crying need for presenting simple health truths in a way which will hold the attention and interest of young people. Dr. Grenfell’s book, “YOURSELF AND YOUR BODY," has probably done more than any scientific treatise upon health practices could ever do. Being a physician as well as a father he could give vital truths in an understandable way to his children.

Health habits are not always satisfying. If students are not interested enough to enjoy health education surely they cannot be expected to cairy over into daily life what they learn. It is no pleasure to retire early if the family is enjoying a fine radio selection, nor to give up an ice-cream soda when a group of young people are out for a good time. The subject must be made so vital that it will grip them. That cannot be done thru stereotyped methods of teaching.

ANNOUNCEMENT

The Southern Section of the American Physical Education Association will hold its second annual meeting in Greensboro, N.

C., March 28 to 30 inclusive. An interesting program including demonstrations by elementary school pupils and by college students has been planned. Among the speakers who have been secured are Dr. Jesse F. Williams, Dr. Jay Nash, Dr. William Burdick, Mr. James E. Rogers, and Mr. Nelville Stewart.

Grover W. Mueller

Digitized by kjOOQle
433

<> ■ ■ - ■>

Health education notes

■ ■ - " —	■ 1 ■	■■»

WHAT KIND OF PHYSICAL TRAINING ACTIVITIES SHOULD BE TAUGHT?

Americans are the greatest sport enthusiasts in the world. Baseball players are paid more than the presidents of the United States, and colleges maintain their entire physical education departments on the money taken in at ten football games. Yet few of the men and women who crowd the stadia indulge in any form of athletics themselves. Why don’t they use the time spent in watching others play to strengthen their own bodies and enjoy their own game?

The fault seems to lie with physical education departments in our schools. Baseball, football, hockey, basketball teams are trained; a comparatively small number of the student body become super-athletes—the majority have “gym” twice a week. A solution for the situation is suggested in Child Welfare Magazine:

“A natural program of physical education should be provided. This must be a program for all students and not one which is open only to those on the ‘varsity’ squad. It must be a sane and wholesome program of athletics for everyone, of intra-mural competition, and of playdays. It is specially important that less time be given to the so-called major sports (football, basketball, and baseball for the boy, and hockey, soccer, basketball, and baseball for the girl) and far more time be given to the acquisition of skills, in such activities as tennis, golf, swimming, dancing, camp craft, and winter sports. These are the activities which are practical for leisure time. These are the activities which will carry into adult life. The other activities have many values and should, of course, remain in the program but they require too many players at a time, too large a field, or too expensive an equipment to be practical for leisure time activities. It is impossible for most of us to find eleven other women with whom to to play basketball and to hope to find twenty-one with whom to

Elay hockey would be out of the question. It is, however, possi-le to find one person with whom we can play tennis, or failing that, we can play golf all alone and still thoroughly enjoy it.”

Walking Aids Studies

With every family in the United States owning ten automobiles (or do the experts say only two?), walking will probably become a lost art. The teacher can keep perambulating from

Digitized by

Google
434

going the way of china-painting and letter writing; The Progressive Teacher gives a few suggestions:

“The press dispatches mention Charles P. Cole, a pupil at the Buxton, Me., High School who has walked six miles to school, twelve miles daily, for four years and in all that time missed only five days. They say that he will graduate at the head of his class and as valedictorian.

“Without knowing any more than this I would say that a boy who exhibited such persistence would be apt to stand very high in his classes. I think it is fair to surmise that his good physical condition helped to give him an alert mind.

“In any school class there will be a certain number of boys and girls who are rather under par, physically. They will be greatly benefited by methodical outdoor walking. Outdoor walking to be most beneficial should be practiced every day. An exhausting tramp on a Saturday with but little walking the rest of the week may be harmful to a child who is not strong.

“A suggestion by the teacher that the pupils cultivate the habit of walking outdoors will do much to inspire the boys and girls. At the same time it would be well to instruct them as to correct poise while walking. The body should be, held erect, shoulders back, abdomen in, chest out, head up, feet straight forward. Walking should be brisk to stimulate the circulation, deep abdominal breathing should become a habit so that every part of the lungs receives the energizing fresh air.”

New Method of Treating Scoliosis.—Chlumsky treats cases of mobile scoliosis on the principle of traction comparable to that produced by an extensive scar. He first takes a large transverse fold in the skin over the convexity of the scoliosis. Buried purse-string sutures hold the fold in place. The skin fold remains for a few weeks, then gradually disappears. During this time the patient holds himself in a position that tends to correct the scoliosis and the obliquity of the spine diminishes, frequently with surprising rapidity.

Mental Reactions

Certain mental reactions are the greatest obstacles to health, Dr. W. W. Bauer, an active health officer, has found in his work in public health. He illustrates these obstructive states of mind in an article in Hygeia for December.

There is the person who refuses to go to a doctor for fear of what the doctor will find. Another is so impressed with an occasional fatality from a surgical operation that he will die rather than submit to one. Some people are just naturally against everything and nobody can tell them what they ought to do about their own health.

Dangerous optimism is illustrated by the person who refuses to take precautions because he is sure he isn’t going to take small-

Digitized by CjOOQle
435

pox. Suspicion of the health officer’s motives in recommending progressive measures plays a large part in opposition.

The emotional attitude toward health matters is a frequent stumbling block in clinical work with children. It is exemplified by the mother who wants her children to have diphtheria prevention but cannot bear to see them stuck with a needle.

Public health in the future depends no more on dissemination of knowledge than on the conquest of these attitudes, Dr. Bauer believes. In the last analysis they are responsible for the continued existence of plagues like diphtheria and smallpox, for which the weapons of annihilation are now available.

Emotional Reactions.

Emotions determine the spice and flavor of life. But emotions, like all other functions of a growing body, must be trained for social living, says Dr. Ira S. Wile, discussing the training of a child’s emotions in the current issue of Hygeia.

Children learn to control and develop their emotions by imitating the behavior about them in their homes, in school, on the playground and in the Sunday school. They respond to influences of their parents, of their reading, of the movies and theaters and of their observation of life.

The binding social force in the emotional life of the child arises from some sense of personal pleasure and satisfaction through accepting the standards of the family and the group to which he belongs. Emotions are related to some simple physical affairs, as for example, consciousness of one’s own size or strength or appearance. The emotional distress of a homely child or of an oversized child in a low grade sometimes beggars description, Dr. Wile says.

The emotions are also bound up with the intellectual life. A high degree of intellectual activity may be a source of comfort and joy, while a limited capacity may give rise to sullenness, irritability and unpleasant school conduct.

The child’s emotional reaction toward school is of primary importance, Dr. Wile urges. Every child should have some success in school. Even if the success is slight, praise and encouragement should always be given.

The child, however, is more than body and intellect. He is a part of the social world, subject to its laws and regulations. The pressure of social living causes strains within the child and the expression of these strains reveal the emotions that are entering into character. Hence the companionships of children, the mode of treatment by the adults about them, the behavior, the ideas, the sentiments and the practices of the parents profoundly affect the emotional life of the child, which involves his own happiness and that of his family and friends.

Digitized by tjOOQle
436

“LAUGHTER AND HEALTH”

To the Editor of the Journal, Am. Medical	:—Thank you

for making my latest book, “Laughter and Health,” the subject of a leading editorial. Thank you too for soaking it. I expect that most reviewers will do so. Before I wrote it I asked Colonel Garrison at the Surgeon General’s Library if there was a book on the subject and he told me there was not, though there were numbers on the physiology and psychology of laughter. Knowing that I was writing a first book on the subject, whatever knowledge I have of the history of medicine was not likely to make me think that a first book on any subject would escape severe criticism on the part of reviewers. That is the way of reviewers. Usually the first thing they say of a new idea is that the author does not know what he is talking about and then that what he has to say is absurd. I have written half a dozen of books that have been greeted this way. It was hard to get a publisher for some of them because they were so different.

The review seems to have assumed that laughter could not possibly be good for health, but then the writer does not seem to understand what laughter is. He actually compares the pleasant natural vibrations produced in the body by laughter which makes one joyful with the unpleasant succussion produced by a flivver which makes one sore. He fails to grasp the limitations of the book. I suggest that laughter prevents constipation. The editorial responds that diarrhoea prevents laughter. The title of the book is “Laughter and Health,” not “Laughter and Disease.”

The reviewer says that “the author seems to discourage the importance of diet in the control of the large intestine.” The words quoted refer to some special manipulations that laughter will replace. As my preceding book, “Eating and Health,” gives as one of the most important rules for diet, “Eat something indigestible at every meal” for the sake of the residue and the roughage, diet is manifestly a favorite prescription of mine; but that has nothing to do with laughter and health.

The reviewer must only have turned the pages and read here and there for he missed the most important points. He suggests that it is a dilemma to say that there is no laughter among animals, though the animals are so healthy, and yet say that laughter brings health to man. I emphasized the fact that laughter seems to be a compensation for our erect position. In man by the influence of gravity the organs are piled on top of one another without any spaces in the abdomen. In the animal the organs hang freely from the horizontal back bone and rub on each other a good deal because of their pendulum action. Man seems to have been given or to have acquired (take your choice) laughter in order to stir up his organs, and this is particularly needed by those who live the sedentary life. The difference between man and the animals as regards conditions within the abdomen is seen from the fact that while hernia is common among men it practically does not occur among the animals.

i
437

The reviewer suggests that mechanical massage of the pancreas is one of the surest ways to stop its external secretion. That may be the case under unnatural circumstances in the animals; but, like so many other observations on animals, that does not apply to man. Laughter is not a mechanical but a natural massage. We all feel that we digest better when we laugh heartily after meals and yet it would be quite impossible for the diaphragm to go up and down as it does in laughter with the stomach full without rubbing the pancreas. If all the postprandial laughers had the external secretion of their pancreas stopped, what serious results there would be for human digestion; yet the reviewer calls it an error of fact to say that rubbing the pacreas stimulates rather than stops its secretion. Facts are not truths unless one has all the facts; and if there is anywhere in the world that we have not all the facts it is in what concerns the ductless glands. Another editorial in that issue of The Journal (March 10) shows clearly how much physiologists may differ with regard to the ductless glands. Two American schools contradict each other in matters endocrine. Surely if there is anything that is becoming clear from recent investigations it is that the ductless glands are linked together and interact in ways that we know little about as yet that will prove of great importance.

The reviewer says in his own positive way, “It is beyond the range of sound information to asssert that mechanical movements of the diaphragm stimulate the thyroid and parathyroid, the thymus, the liver, the pancreas or the suprarenals.” What he means by this is that no one has called attention to it before. Somehow the physical effect of laughter over our organs has been missed or much underrated. As for the abdominal organs, it is easy to understand that they must be affected by the movements of the diaphragm, and rubbing always produces an increase of circulation so that increased function would be expected. As for the glands in the neck, if the reviewer will place his hand on this region while he laughs heartily, he will note the vibratory massage which must affect all the organs in the cervical region. There are a whole series of them there. The physical effect of laughter is exerted in two places, in the region of the diaphragm and in that of the larynx.

Nothing so arouses vitality and makes us feel good as a hearty laugh. The effect is almost instantaneous yet is definitely physical. Surely the one medium that will give such an immediate effect is the ductless gland system. Why, then, should we not make laughter a definite therapeutic resource? Some of the religious orders did so and made it a rule that after meals every one should spend some time, nearly an horn*, in light hearted conversation that would encourage joyfulness and hearty laughter. There is no doubt about its benefit, though the details may have to be worked out. Laughter is ever so much more than mental in effect, as the reviewer would suggest, though there is a long chapter on favorable influence on the mind produced by laughter in my book. Even sneezing, which the reviewer touches on
438

ironically, has its place in the chapter on Other Diaphragm Activities besides laughter (there are half a dozen of them) and all of them have a definite good effect.

James J. Walsh, M. D., New York

Music in Relation to Medicine and Health.

In an article in the Deutsche medizinische Wochenschrift, Dr. Kurt Singer, the acting manager of the Berlin municipal opera and the director of the Berlin Aerztechor (a singing society composed of physicians—Dr. Singer being likewise a physician), discusses the relations between music and medicine. The friendship that existed between the Vienna surgeon Billroth and the musician Brahms is well known. Possessed himself of a high musical training, Billroth’s book “Wer ist musikalisch?” (Who is Musical) paved the way for a whole series of works dealing with the esthetics of music. Under the same title the Freiburg physiologist von Kries has recently published a book in which he explains the action of music on the human mind by which it achieves its esthetic and ethical value. Haecker, Ziehen and Kammerer have made researches on the hereditary transmission of musical talent. The Berlin physiologist W. Trendelenburg published a theoretical and practical monograph on the art of playing stringed instruments, treating the subject from all angles of physics and physiology. Lowy and Schrotter instituted researches on the energy consumption of pianists. Max Dessoir, in his work on “Aesthetik und Kunstwissenschaft,” has made an important contribution on the esthetics and psychology of music, and in his works on the therapeutic value of music Dr. Singer has utilized much of the material furnished by Dessoir.

Many physicians have studied the physiologic influence of music on patients and normal persons, and among the effects of pleasurable sensations they mention a retardation of the pulse and the respiration. The strongest pleasure sensations are produced by well known musical selections. French scientists contend that music in the minor mode scarcely influences the blood pressure, while music in the major mode increases it considerably. That the capacity to perform work is increased by music has long been known. Gangs at hard labor and men on the march often sing as a means of lightening their tasks. The ancient lands of the Old Testament, and also classical Greece, knew the therapeutic value of music. The New Testament contains many examples of soul sufferers being aided by music. Singer mentions that spoken words may fall as music on the ears of some patients with the usual psychic effect.

Air Bath Ttreatment of Pulmonary Tuberculosis.—Air

bathing, minus sunlight, is advocated by McCarty. He says that one considerable advantage of bodily exposure to open air over direct insolation is that by this method all patients, irrespective of the location of the lesion, the amount of involvement

Digitized by V^rOOQle
439

or the toxicity, can employ it without fear of the deleterious results that may result from direct exposure to the sunlight. This form of treatment, which has been employed by him in 300 or more cases, has 'proved of advantage in many ways. First, it encourages rest, in that when a patient is stripped of his clothing he is not so prone to get up and wander around the ward as when dressed. Second, having been worn out both in mind and body, with perhaps a long-drawn-out method of treatment, and having nearly reached the stage of discouragement, he feels that something is being done for him, and continues the cure with the renewed hope that he is to be benefited. Third, after he has continued the treatment for a short period the skin loses its pale, doughy and flaccid appearance and becomes bronzed to some extent, rich in color, and more elastic. The patient sees this, realizes a change is taking place, and a certain amount of favorable psychologic reaction is produced in addition to the extra elimination which is going on through the skin. Fourth, by the increased elimination of carbon dioxide through the skin, the lung attains more nearly that stage of rest so highly desired in the process of repair. Fifth, it has been noted in the 300 cases so treated, including a number in which digestion had been more or less impaired, that nothing further has been required to aid digestion, and several patients who has previously complained of insomnia have not required the use of sedatives or hypnotics. In not one case has a retrogression of the pulmonary condition been noted.

THE CLINICAL AND THERAPEUTIC ASPECTS OF HUNGER AND UNDERNUTRITION.

Prof. Friedrich Richter, department head in the Kranken-haus Friedrichsheim in Berlin, recently discussed, in an address before the Verein fur innere Medizin, the clinical and therapeutic significance of undernutrition and hunger. The first question to be answered is: What effect have hunger and undernutrition on general metabolism? It has long been known that an undernourished person can subsist with very small quantities of food; for, when the supply of food is insufficient, there is an absolute and relative decrease of general metabolism, as Zunzt and Lowy were able to observe on themselves, during the war. The organism adapts itself, therefore, to the changed conditions and is thus able to endure the partial fast for a long time. Fasting (entire or partial) and undemutrition are of value in general therapy as a means of limiting general metabolism, and are therefore employed in diabetes. Further, hunger and undernutrition, if they are of short duration, exert a favorable influence on the musculature and the nerves and enhance their performance. The blood pressure falls, though sometimes only slightly. The effect

'Journal American Medical Association.

Digitized by L^OOQle
440

on the peripheral vessels that are dilated is especially marked. A vegetarian diet relieves the pressure on these vessels and prevents spasmodic phenomena; for example, in migraine, or so-called sick headache. Prolonged hunger has an influence also on the endocrine, particularly the thyroid. It is especially significant that, as a result of hunger and undemutrition, the less essential tissues are more likely to shrivel than the more vital tissues. The cells lose, at the same time, their protoplasmic portion while the nuclear substance increases. The cell thus becomes morphologically younger. With regard to the after effects of prolonged hunger and undemutrition, examinations of professional fasters have shown that, during a prolonged fast, the economical limitations of the tissues are soon reached. Even in association with hunger, regeneration and growth are possible. Hunger, or fasting, treatment is employed chiefly in obesity, gout and diabetes, and in spastic conditions of the vessels. It exerts a favorable influence in diffuse inflammation of the kidneys; also in eclamptic conditions. In so-called allergic dieseases, such as asthma and urticaria, undemutrition has a favorable effect, as was observed repeatedly during the food shortage of the war period.

In the discussion that followed the address, Professor. Kuc-zynski referred to his extensive observations on typhus in Russia. In animal experiments he found that, the better the nutrition was, the fewer micro-organisms there were in the blood. Goldscheider mentioned that, according to the theoretical views of Paul Ehrlich, the cells form the antitoxins, and that one therefore should not supply too much food to the cells, in order not to hamper them in their formation of antitoxin. “Decomposition leads to restoration” is a fundamental principle of organic material, since the living organism is the only machine that restores worn-out material. Umber, also, observed during the war that disposition to infection is heightened by undemutrition, and Magnus-Levy expressed the view that typhoid and pneumonia are less likely to prove fatal if the nutrition is good; an ample diet also aids convalescence. His regretted to note that, in tne past, too much importance had been attached to theory in connection with dietetic measures, while practical observations had been neglected. He wishes that a laboratoiy center might be established in which scientific experiments with a vegetarian diet and with raw food might be performed. Fvirbringer closed the discussion with the statement that he never had regretted eating too little, adding that he himself ate only such an amount as was needed to per-serve his body weight.

DRASTIC NEW ZEALAND BILL TO PREVENT THE PROPAGATION OF THE DEFECTIVE

A mental defectives bill which has been introduced into the house of representatives of New Zealand provides for the creation of a new class of mental defectives to be known as the “socially defective” and the constitution of a special board to

Digitized by LjOOQle
441

exercise supervision over them. The board, which is to be composed of leading medical, educational and prison authorities, will be charged with the compilation of a list register of the names of all mentally defective persons who, though not "of unsound mind” (i. e., suffering fron acquired mental disease), may be classified as idiots, imbeciles, feebleminded, epileptic or socially defective. To assist in the compilation, the director of education is required to furnish returns on school children suffering from retarded mental development, deficiency disorders or epilepsy. Provision is made for appeals to the supreme court against registration and for the removal of names when warranted. Marriage of registered persons is prohibited. If it is deemed desirable in the public interest the board may authorize the sterilization of any registered persons, but the consent of parents or guardians is necessary in the case of minors and of persons mentally incapable of understanding the nature and consequences of the operation.

In a letter to the Morning Post, London, England, a leading psychiatrist, Dr. J. Shaw Bolton, professor of mental diseases University of Leeds, sounds a note of warning on these proposals to create a new class of defectives (the "socially defective”) which with the mentally defective are to be included in a register of persons prohibited from marriage. He points out that mentally defective persons are not necessarily the progeny of mental defectives; that in the severer grades mental defectives are deprived by nature of the capability of procreation, and that enormous numbers of mental defectives of all kinds are procreated by apparently normal and healthy persons. Registration and prohibition of the marriage of mental defectives could not then seriously decrease the incidence of legitimately produced mental defectiveness. This applies more forcibly to the class of "socially defective,” whose minor grades are so universally diffused among the population that they could not be detected by their asocial acts alone. He trusts that the bill will be rejected.

CANDY

One of the most significant features of our changing food habits during the past century has been the increasing use of sugar. The annual per capita consumption has risen from less than 9 pounds in 1823 to more than 110 pounds at the present time. In commenting on this statistical fact, Mendel1 nas recently attempted to evaluate it with respect to our dietary needs. Assuming the average daily energy requirement to be 2,500 calor-ries, the Americans used, in 1823, the equivalent of 44 calories a day; in 1924 they used 547 calories. In other words, although

‘Editorial, Journal of the American Medical Association. l.Mendel, L. B.: Our Changing Food Habits, in Your Weight and How to Control It, edited by Morris Fishbein, New York, George H. Doran Co., 1927,

Digitized by CjOOQle
442

sugar represented, a hundred years ago, less than 1.75 per cent of our total intake of energy-yielding foods, today it constitutes, Mendel pointed out, about one fifth of the requisite food intake of our population, or 21.6 per cent. This amounts to about twenty cubes a day of the conventional table variety. Of this food Slosson has paradoxically remarked that its only fault is its perfection. It is so pure that man cannot live on it. This is because refined sugar does not retain vitamins, and vitamins are necessary to health.

Overindulgence in sugar has been assailed on many occasions as a national dietary fault. The food is charged with being susceptible to fermentation and having a disturbing influence on digestion when consumed in liberal amounts. Students of diabetes have warned from time to time that the inordinate use of sugar may predispose to the disease, though it may really be the excess of any food rather than of carbohydrates in particular that is liable to do harm. Because of its high fuel value and ready utilization, sugar tends to displace other foods that are carriers of desirable inorganic salts, vitamins and bulk. Professor Sherman2 further charges that from a gastronomic standpoint in the American cuisine sugar is used with too many kinds of food, with a consequent loss of variety and piquancy of flavor in the differ-rent dishes. The nutty flavor of grains and the natural taste of mild fruits are often concealed by the addition of large quantities of sugar.

Candy is an article of diet, rich in sugar, that has found great favor in this country. Americans have been termed a candy-loving nation, and much of the criticism leveled at the undue use of sugar is directed to the use of candy. To what extent the popular confection may deserve this opprobrium, if any, can now be better determined from a recent survey made by the Department of Commerce of the country's candy consumption in 1926. About 80 per cent of the candy makers of the nation showed total candy sales of 1,803,399,754 pounds, valued at $258,251,562. This was at a rate of about 9 pounds for every man, woman and infant at an average per capita cost of more than $2. If these figures are arbitrarily augmented to represent the assumed entire per capita candy production at 11 pounds with an average food fuel value of 20,000 calories, the canay contribution to the day’s allowance amounts to 54 calories, or only 2 per cent of the provisionally accepted daily requirement of 2,500 calories. This could scarcely be made the basis of cogent criticism, particularly in view of the fact that much candy is the carrier incidentally of such wholesome food as nuts and dried fruits. However, consideration of "averages” in such instances may be misleading. Candy is by no means a food universally eaten by all of our millions of population. Consequently the quota that reaches the smaller number of actual users is correspond-

2. Sherman, H. C.: Food Products, New York, Macmillan Co., 1924.
443

ingly increased. The fact that the sales in one state, Connecticut, were doubled in a single year suggests that where candy is liberally eaten its actual contribution to the day’s intake is by no means as negligible as the “average” statistics for the entire population of the United States would lead one to infer.

Moral Education.—Academic education may be immoral, warned C. E. Rugh, Professor of Education of the University of California. “It is coming to be one of the scandals of education that men and women achieve what is termed scholarship without achieving good moral character.”

Education may be moral, Professor Rugh said, by helping the learner to achieve habits and sentiments of succeeding, by developing knowledge and insight that insure efficiency, and by developing right attitudes and high ideals.

The term “punishment” should be dropped from the vocabulary of education, Professor Rugh believes, and “recovery from wrongdoing” substituted. Punishment seldom reforms, he pointed out, for in most punishment we treat symptoms instead of causes. The will plays a major part in “recovery”. The wrongdoer must “will with, instead of against,” the processes that produce right conduct. “Repentance, confession, restitution and consecration,” are the four stages diagrammed by Professor Rugh in “recovery”. Morality pays, he said..—Good Health.

TEA IMPORTATIONS DECLINE

From the physician’s point of view, the problem of the use of tea and coffee in the diet seems to be concerned primarily with the methylated purines, notably caffeine, which they contain. The interdiction of these beverages has become common in the formulation of dietaries for children. For example, in a recent field study of certain Massachusetts rural towns, to ascertain what relationship, if any, could be demonstrated between the dietary habits of children of elementary school age and their state of health, in scoring the diets a deduction of points was made for the regular use of either coffee or tea. This is undoubtedly in accord with current nutritional advices for adolescents. Furthermore, the consumption of substitutes for tea and coffee has grown in this country. One wonders, therefore, whether these national tendencies bear any relation to the decline in tea importations recently reported by the U. S. Department of Agriculture. The official statistics indicate that, despite continued growth in population, nearly six and one-half million pounds less tea was imported during the fiscal year ended June 30, 1928 than during the previous year. This represents a decrease of 7 per cent. In contrast with this is the governmental announcement that caffeine-containing drinks other than tea and coffee are now being used extensively with meals at lunch counters, cafeterias and similar eating places. Especially is this true where lunches are served at soda fountains in drug stores, cigar stores,

Digitized by (^.ooQle
444

and other places. Since a large proportion of tea utilized in the United States is served in the form of iced tea, it is believed that the use at meal times of drinks to which caffeine has been added has been another cause of the falling off in the consumption of tea. Those who have hopefully anticipated a decrease in the “caffeinization” of the nation will be further disconcerted by the information that of several million pounds of tea waste, tea siftings and tea sweepings imported under government regulation “for manufacturing purposes,” practically all are reported to be converted into caffeine, a large portion of which is used in the preparation of various caffeinated soft drinks. It would seem almost as if the methylated purines were being converted in status in an insidious manner from a drug to a food.

Treatment of Persons Accidentally Electrocuted.—

According to Mouzon, the first thing to do in the treatment of electrocuted persons is to loosen the clothing as quickly as possible and to attempt to reestablish the respiration and circulation, even when the patient appears to be dead. The major indication is artificial respiration, which should not be abandoned until the signs of death are certain. Numerous facts show that death from electrocution is frequently only apparent and that it is due exclusively to asphyxia caused by respiratory arrest. As many as eight hours of artificial respiration nave been re-

Suired to start the normal rhythm. Clinical and postmortem ndings seem to indicate that artificial respiration, instituted immediately, constitutes the only rational therapy. Rubbing, slapping, the inhalation of ammonia or vinegar, the stimulation of the nasal mucosa, and the application of mustard plasters to the lower extremities are at times of value. Injections of camphor, caffeine and lobeline have their indications. Even the intracardia injection of epinephrine would be justified in a case of cardiac arrest. But none of these therapeutic measures should be allowed to interfere, even for a few seconds, with the carrying out of Schafer’s method of artificial respiration. Venesection is hardly practicable, because it is incompatible with artificial respiration. After being resuscitated, the patient should as a rule be turned over to a surgeon for the treatment of the local lesions caused by the current. Inasmuch as these lesions are aseptic there is no indication for early resection or amputation: a simple protective or an occlusive dressing suffices. One may see the mummification extend to regions whose sensibility, motility, and even whose vascularization at first appear intact. Inversely, parts of extremities which appear gravely affected may return to normal. Even roentgenography does not enable one to recognize the extent of the bony destruction before the second or even the third week. The surgeon who operates in the first few days on the basis of the apparent extent and depth of the lesions runs the danger of sectioning too high or too low. The amputation, moreover, would offer no advantage so far as the rapidity or the quality of the cicatrix is concerned. It does not

Digitized by LaOOQle
445

accelerate reparation and it can never be as economical as spontaneous elimination. In cases where there are symptoms of increased intracranial pressure, a lumbar puncture may constitute an heroic emergency measure.

MUSEUM FATIGUE

One of the objects of scientific management, the designation given to the modern system of organizing and conducting industrial work, has been to devise methods by which excessive industrial fatigue can be avoided. Bodily fatigue has been shown to have an unmistakable effect on industrial output, so that for economic reasons, if for no other, the condition referred to has called forth intensive study. Investigators have frequently maintained that in industrial work there is an interrelation between fatigue and the health of the workers. Lee* has {pointed out that fatigue in the individual has its subjective and its objective aspects and hence may be considered from the two points of view of the psychic and the physical. After he has been active mentally or physically, the average man “feels” tired; that is, to him fatigue is a matter of sensation, and his sensations are the sole measure of his weariness; he has no comprehension of any material changes in his body which accompany his feelings. Yet important material changes have occurred. Many of them, however, are still unknown even to the specialist in fatigue and, Lee adds, both the psychic and the physical aspects of the subject are much in need of intensive investigation.

The diminished capacity for work that characterizes so-called fatigue manifests itself in many fields of human activity. Such apathies are undoubtedly to be distinguished from the occupational neuroses, of which writers’ cramp is the classic illustration. The latter are diseases of acquired function and as a rule of somewhat highly specialized function, though vocational neurosis has been described as “fatigue disease,” In recent years we have heard the expression “brain fag,” which is not necessarily a sign of diminished capacity for muscular work, yet a slight change in one’s mental state often markedly alters the facility of achievement.

A comparatively new category of human discomfort has been described as “museum fatigue.” Almost every visitor to large collections and exhibits can testify to the fag that a survey of them is likely to develop. Museums are intended to evoke pleasure and intellectual satisfaction. These ends all too often fail of accomplishment because of the fatigue which museum inspection develops in undue degree. A recent writer** 1

1.	Lee, F. S., in Diseases of Occupation and Vocational Hygiene, Philadelphia, P. Blakiston’s Son & Co., 1916.

2.	Brown, F. C.: Building a Museum to Human Specifications, Scient. Monthly, March, 1928, p. 193.

Digitized by Ljooole
446

maintains that the first problem of a museum is to gain and maintain its audiences. He insists that the visitor should be interested to such an extent that he will desire to return and that he will tell his friends of the profit he has received with a minimum expenditure of energy. After his visit he should not be conscious of severe fatigue to any greater degree than after a good game of golf, and he should carry away an inspiration and wonder that will strongly impel him to seek further information through means which, in many cases, may be suggested by his visit to the museum. Certain physical conditions conduce to this end. The temperature and humidity should be as agreeable as possible, and the air and objects should have a minimum of dust and dirt. Brown adds that much of the walk way surface should be easy on the feet, and during the entourage of the museum the visitor should have exercised as many different muscles as he would in his “daily dozen.” Chairs and stools should be thoughtfully interspersed throughout the exhibits, and provision should be made for accessible dining and lunching to enable the hungry visitor to lengthen his visit and encourage him to make frequent trips to the museum. If the latter were constructed to “human specification” as Brown has proposed it would no longer be said, as Cooke remarked not long ago, that a museum should really be a temple of the muses, but to most people it is merely an extensive store house in which they get tired. The effort to abolish “museum fag” is commendable.

—Journal	Medical Ass.

THE SUMMER CAMP FOR CHILDREN

The season for summer camps will soon be at hand again and while there is yet time to do so, it may be well says the Journal of the Am. Medical Association to consider briefly some of the points in relationship to hygiene and sanitation which are concerned in their operation. These should be given careful thought not only by camp directors and physicians, but by the hundreds of thousands of parents who have consigned their children to such vacation resorts without, in many instances, even a preliminary casual inspection. At least 15,000 such camps were operated in the United States during the past season, and the number of children in camps at one time or another was in the millions. The medical attention available in the average summer camp varies from nothing at all to the presence of a practical nurse, to the employment of several graduate nurses, to the residence of a physician within 25 miles, to the employment of interns, and, finally, to the presence of a graduate licensed physician who devotes all his time during the two months to problems of health and sanitation in the camp in which he may reside. The facilities within camps for the care of a sick child or a surgical emergency vary from a tent with a cot to the well established, fully organized infirmary with four beds. The san-

Digitized by U^ooQLe
447

itation of the camps may include a carefully checked milk, water and food supply, hot and cold water, shower baths, screened cabins, paved walks, and modem plumbing, with daily inspection of the children. It may, however, depend on uncontrolled springs and inadequate chemical disposal of sewage. So rapid has been the growth of the camp movement in this country that there are only a few states, possibly two, which arrange for regular inspection of summer camps by their health departments. Unquestionably, some authoritative body should draw up minimum standard requirements for sanitary and hygienic control of summer camps for children. Parents who insist on the best medical attention for their children during the winter months delegate them, without any idea of possible dangers, to camps far removed frequently from any physician. The subject is one to which state health officers particularly and public health officials generally may well give some thought.

IN OPPOSITION TO THE PRESENT-DAY DRESS OF

WOMEN

Geheimrat Rubner has an article in the Deutsche medizinische Wochenschrift condemning the present-day dress of women. Alarming reports are coming from all directions, but chiefly from the northern countries, in regard to the disastrous hygienic effects of the scant attire of women. Rubner feels that it is his duty to call attention to the following facts: The mortality of women belonging to the 20 to 26 age group is increasing. Foreign surgeons have reported several cases of severe frostbite necessitating the amputation of toes and, in a few instances, of one or both feet. The light clothing and the resulting chilling of the body are in themselves sufficient to cause loss of body weight and to produce the much affected slender figure. If these youthful forms, which are nothing but skin and bones, were clothed in rags, everybody would be shocked at the terrible conditions. He consoles his readers with the conviction that the peak of the epidemic, for that is what the present mode of dress amounts to, has been passed. There are doubtless millions of women who do not approve of the present exposure of their bodies and long to be released from the bondage but cannot resist the urge of style. He gives assurance that the style will change; for the industrial dictators of fashions must constantly find something new, and dresses will have to be longer for the reason that they can scarcely be shorter.

Rubner declares that the violent methods resorted to in order to reduce often bring impairment to the cell structures. A marked loss of proteins may accompany the loss of fat and thus cause a weakening of the body forces. Women who resort to unsuitable means of reducing their weight often find that, with the reduction, weakening of the musculature has been brought about. They fail utterly in their attempt to give a masculine appearance to their figure, which is commonly the

Digitized by ^.ooQle
448

purpose they have in view. Whereas in youth the process of increasing and reducing weight goes on without the formation of wrinkles, the skin is later no longer so elastic as to adapt itself by contraction to the loss of adipose tissue; hence, the premature manifestations of age in the skin of elderly women who reduce unwisely.

The clothing of women weighed formerly (including shoes) from 2.5 to 3 kilograms, leaving out of account the heavier clothing of winter and the light clothing of mid-summer. Those figures have long since been left behind. In the mode of dress of women in general, the variation affects more the underclothing than the outer garments; for it is the general endeavor of all classes at present to avoid, as far as possible, differences in clothing that betray the nature of their employment or occupation.

Rubner sets up two series of figures, one for the clothing of midsummer, with an average weight of from 915 to 955 Gm., and another for the clothing of winter with an average weight of 2,165 Gm. According to his researches, the weight of the clothing does not influence its warmth-giving capacity so much as its air content does, which depends on the size and the number of interstices containing “dead air” (air not in motion). Without doubt, with the modem style of dress, greater warmth would be procured if the smooth weaves, such as batiste, were replaced by softer dress material, such as tricot. He emphasized, too, that by the use of several layers of clothing an increase in the amount of dead air space can be effected. Even with the present abbreviated style of dress, approximately the same degree of warmth as with other modes could be obtained if women would wear in winter a union suit of washable material a slip-over of pure wool, an underskirt of artificial silk, woolen stoclangs, a winter dress with long sleeves, and woolen overstockings. But most women and girls in the large cities no longer wear such things. In general, in the fall and spring, but also, to a great extent, in winter, the body is not kept sufficiently warm, in spite of suitable outercoats. There is a tendency to wear summer clothing even on chilly days, and as nearly half of the body is almost bare, the legs being inadequately protected by silk gauze stockings, the average woman is not adequately protected against the inclement days of summer. This explains the fact that ever new styles of underclothing are thrown on the market. Unfortunately, some younger persons dispense entirely with an undergarment, or, if a union suit is worn, the upper portion has been gradually pared away until there is little left of it. Thus the outergarment, which is never washed, serves, at the same time, as the direct covering for the skin. In general, Rubner regards the union suit as a very impracticable article of clothing, since a fresh garment must be taken though only one part is soiled. But reduction of the upper portion to a mere band, as is nowadays frequently the case, is an incomprehensible retrograde movement, from the standpoint of body
449

cleanliness. It is not the province of the outer garment to take up the effluvia of the boay. Printed goods is not suitable as a direct covering for the skin.

The footwear of women violates the well established rule of health that the feet should be kept warm. It is in principle opposed to all other hygienic needs. The three main requisites of modem shoewear for women seem to be that it shall be narrow, tight-fitting and as short as possible. The ankles have no support; the heels twist and turn; protection against the cold is not provided for, and the stocking is usually so thin and flimsy that it does not even protect the skin against the dust of the street. To be sure, the more prudent provide themselves in winter with high galoshes, sometimes fur-lined.

Finally, the hygienist directs his attack also against bobbed hair in general, and more particularly against that type of bob that appears to be affected by certain women, in order that they may be relieved of practically all care of their hair. Unfortunately, there is not always a perfect parallelism between bobbed hair and a clean scalp; or, again, how many exceedingly neat and punctilious maids cannot refrain from combing their hair even at the table!

It is often said of late that women are much more hardy than they formerly were. But the fact is overlooked that there are some persons who cannot be hardened; who are so susceptible to the cold that exposure causes an impairment of the body. Fortunately, the health conditions at present are, in many respects, favorable, so that there are no epidemics of respiratory diseases. Why precisely the calves and the feet should be hardened is not so readily apparent. Whenever the weather changes for the worse, many women begin to complain that their legs are cold. That warmth of body is in women a pronounced need cannot be denied. Today, when the general cry is for rationalization in all things, inappropriate and inadequate clothing constitutes an economic evil. If, because of inadequate clothing, it becomes necessary to maintain a higher temperature in our homes, that is a useless waste of coal. Furthermore, the setting of the fashions is purely a business undertaking—an undertaking that flourishes at the expense of sound economics and a sensible mode of living	.—JournalAm. M Assn.

HYGIENIC ASPECTS OF PRESENT-DAY DRESS

Addressing the Berliner Gesellschaft ftir offentliche Gesund-heitspflege, Professor Friedberger gave an interesting talk on certain hygienic aspects of the present-day modes of dress. He considered the summer and winter styles worn by men and women, and pointed out that, corresponding to the different weight of men’s and women’s clothing, there was a difference in the behavior of the body temperature and the relative humidity of the air spaces between the clothing and the body. He believes that the recent criticism of the light clothing worn

Digitized by Google
450

by women in winter is justified only in part. Women avoid now the heavy undergarments formerly worn, as they are not in keeping with the “modern figure” or with the quality and cut of the outer dress. They protect themselves against the cold by woolen overgarments, coats and furs. On the other hand, men in general continue to wear heavy underclothing for protection in winter, and as they spend the bigger part of the day in rooms that are well heated they suffer from heat stasis and from excessive perspiration, the same as in summer. Thus it would be better if men also would rely on suitable outerclothing for protection against the cold1.

The differences between the two sexes are based not only on the style of dress but also on the quality of the goods used for garments and on the way the goods is made up. Whereas, twenty years ago, the textbooks on hygiene figured usually 7 Kg. for the winter clothing of men—and a “little more for that of women,” the weight of women’s clothing is only about a tenth of what it was formerly, while the weight of men’s clothing has remained approximately the same. The excessive clothing of men causes not only a difference in the heat radiation and the amount of perspiration but also differences in connection with the functioning of the skin, to which little or no attention has hitherto been paid.

The speaker presented numerous tests from which it was apparent that the ordinary clothing material worn by men does not admit rays of light, especially when garments are lined, as is usually the case, whereas women’s unlined garments, of little weight, are very pervious to light. The technic of his experiments on the perviousness of clothing material to light is simple. Paper specially sensitized to light is placed under the materials to be examined and they are then exposed for a definite time to the sunlight or to an artificial light. The extent to which the paper is blackened furnishes the scale of measurement for the perviousness to light. He carried out experiments on persons in Berlin and in high plateau regions, which revealed that scarcely any rays of light reached the sensitized paper strips pasted on the body in the case of the men, whereas the paper strips under the clothing of the women showed evidence of being markedly affected by the light. The light rays penetrate knitted and crocheted materials and also men’s shirts but do not penetrate the lined coat unless it is made of goods especially pervious to light. Thus, except for the face and hands, practically no light ever reaches the bodies of men. In this respect, women have a distinct advantage over men, from their youth up, as the legs of the little girls are left almost bare while little boys are often dressed in sailor garb with long trousers. It may be added that the perviousness to light rays is not the only aspect; the admission of air to the skin is likewise important, and the requirements for the admission of air and light are about the same. For similar reasons the use of closed pajamas appears ill-advised.

Digitized by kjOOQle
451

BOOK REVIEWS

“Manual of Dancing Steps” by Elsa Pohl and “Dance Technique and Rhythms” arranged by Carolyn Bergheim, published by A. S. Barnes and Co., price $4.00.

The “Manual of Dancing Steps,” 6” by 9” with a paper cover, 63 pages, is found in the pocket of the inside cover of “Dance Technique and Rhythms” which is 9” by 11 1-4” with a linen cover, 59 pages. There are 57 selections.

In the “Manual of Dancing Steps,” Miss Pohl has given in a very definite and simple way the technique of Russian dancing. All foot and arm positions are described and illustrated by line drawings. The dancing steps are defined, the execution described, the rhythm stated and the accompanying arm positions explained. Another part of the manual is devoted to the movement of the arms and a number of exercises in the different rhythms are given for the purpose of practice.

The principal social dancing steps are also described—the schottische, polka, mazurka, polka redowa and waltz. The last part of the book is devoted to a number of technique exercises in a variety of rhythms.

Accompanying this manual is “Dance Technique and Rhythms”—music arranged by Carolyn Bergheim. The music has been selected from the best in music. The selections include the various rhythms and are suited to the exercises in the manual of dancing steps.

It is felt that any one interested in the technique of dancing will find both the descriptions in Miss Pohl’s manual and the music compiled by Miss Bergheim valuable assets.

______________ Janet B. Walter.

“Corrective Physical Education for Groups” by Lowman, Colestock and Cooper. Published by A. S. Barnes and Company, New York, 1928. Cloth bound, 6” x 9”; 521 pages, price $4.50.

Those especially interested in the corrective field of physical education will find some useful material in this book.

Part I deals with various aspects of corrective work as related to the school. It gives the technique of examining, the classification of individuals, the classification of the defects and the methods of procedure.

Part II covers the equipment and the organization of the work as applied to the Junior and Senior High Schools and the Elementary Schools.

Part III gives the methods to be applied in this work.

Part IV gives detailed schedules of work adapted to various situations. Here are to be found specific exercises grouped into lessons to meet various needs.

Part V includes games, dancing, plays and other projects which may be used for corrective work.

Whether the “Lithe, Medium and Stout” classification of individuals as suggested in this book is correct remains a disputed point.

Digitized by

Google
452

The many photographic illustrations, especially those showing defects, serve as good supplementary aids for the reader. The detailed descriptions and the wide range of activities adaptable to varying couditions are favorable points. The book may be studied with profit.

—Fred E. Foertsch

“Outlines of Child Study” (Revised edition). Edited by Benjamin C. Gruenberg for the Child Study Association of America. Published by The Macmillan Company, New York, in 1927. Bound in cloth, 5” x 7 1-2”, 289 pages.

This book which is a revision of the original edition published in 1922, presents a re-arrangement of the contents to agree more closely with the sequence of topics in “Guidance of Childhood and Youth” which appeared two years ago as a volume of selected readings in child study. In the new “Outlines” the old method of topical arrangement has been retained together with the brief consideration of each topic in terms of 1st, a statement of the general state of knowledge of the topic; 2nd, an outline which lists the detailed facts and problems concerning which there is information available; and 3rd, a list of helpfully graded references ranging from attractive popular articles to technical monographs.

Originally written for parents and teachers it has become so popular and useful that it has been enriched and expanded to consider “with increasing attention the problems of child development”. As a result of experience with the selected readings in “Guidance of Childhood and Youth” in study groups, several of the topics in the Outlines have been combined, a few have been omitted and several new ones have been added. The reading references have been very largely replaced by careful selections from the large body of new material that has become available in recent years. There are forty-seven topics classified into the five following groups:—

1.	Aspects of Discipline

2.	Impulses and Activities

3.	The Social Environment

4.	Organic Foundations

5.	Individual Variations

Probably no other book in the rapidly increasing volume of literature dealing with the child offers such a rich mine of information. The short, meaningful essay which introduces each topic is a delightful appetizer and intriguing invitation to seek further. Following the essay is an outline around which the reader may sort some of the ideas already presented. For further information the reader is led on through a series of popular, semi-technical, and technical references.

The book as revised is truly an improvement on the original, and such an accomplishment should merit the investigation of it by every teacher and parent.

—John C. Kiefer.
453

“Health and Physical Education” by Alonzo F. Meyer® and Ossian C. Bird, published by Doubleday, Doran and Con* pany, Inc. Garden City, New York, 1928.

Cloth bound, 5” x 8”; 342 pages, price—$1.50

The first nine chapters of this book may be considered as a distinct unit. Contained therein is a very brief review of the early history of physical and health education in grade schools, leading up to the modem program; a chapter dealing with the health aspects of the school plant; several chapters on health situations from the standpoint of the child; and one on first aid intended to help the teacher in meeting emergencies.

The general nature and scope of the work as treated in this part of the book may serve to give the teacher a broader outlook and in turn enlist a more sympathetic attitude. The stress given to the place of the elementary school teacher in promoting the program deserves favorable comment.

Two chapters are given over to a health outline for grades I to VI. The greater portion of this material is taken from a tentative outline for the Cleveland Public Schools.

Play supervision and playground construction and equipment form the body of two other cnapters. The emphasis on more adequate and better organized supervision of the play activities by tne teacher is well taken.

The remainder of the book which takes up more than half of the volume, is devoted to organization and descriptions of activities, such as plays and games and athletics.

As a whole the book may serve to give the elementary teacher a larger perspective of the field in general. It cannot, however, take the place of a course of study. It might serve as an aid, to the elementary school teacher who is able to sift out and organize the materials to meet her particular needs.

Topical Sources for “Personal Hygiene Applied” by Jesse Feiring Williams, M. D., Professor of Physical Education, Teachers College, Columbia University, New York City. 12mo of 97 pages. Philadelphia and London. W. B. Saunders Company, 1929. Cloth, $1.00 net.

|M[ This little edition contains source topics and references, (including periodical literature), in health education.

It gives a list of significant topics and a list of relevant questions. Following each topic or question is a carefully selected bibliography.

In the health education field it holds a unique position. It will serve as a handy instrument for students, teachers and others interested in this work. Every teacher training institute should have a copy in its library. It deserves a place on the private book-shelf of every health student and teacher.

—Fred E. Foertsch.

Digitized by CjOOQle
454

FENCING DRILL FOR MEN AND WOMEN.

By A. F. Schintz, St. Paul, Minn.

I.

The performers are arranged in a front line of ranks of fours.

16 steps forward.................................. 8	measures

Millwheel right by 4...............................8	measures

Millwheel left by 4................................8	measures

No. 1, 4 steps forward.............................2	measures

Mark time..........................................2	measures

Rest...............................................4	measures

II.

Half face to the left, sword in line...............1	measure

Elevate, pass and take your guard..................5	measures

Two appells and close to the rear..................1	measure

Salute and second .................................1	measure

Carry arms and rest................................4	measures

III.

Half face to the left, sword in line...............1	measure

Elevate, pass and take your guard..................3	measures

Lunge ..........................................   1	measure

On guard ......................................... 1	measure

Two appells and close to the rear..................1	measure

Salute and second..................................1	measure

Carry arms and rest................................4	measures

IV.

Half face to the left and sword in line	)4	measure

Elevate pass and take your guard.................2)4	measures

Advance ...........................................1	measure

Lunge ...........................................  1	measure

On guard ..........................................1	measure

Two appells and close to the rear..................1	measure

Salute and second..................................1	measure

Carry arms and rest................................4	measures

V.

Half face to the left, sword in line............. )4	measure

Elevate pass and take your guard.................2)4	measures

Retreat ...........................................1	measure

Lunge .............................................1	measure

On guard ..........................................1	measure

Two appells and close to the rear..................1	measure

Salute and second..................................1	measure

Carry arms and rest................................4	measures

VI.

Half face to the left, sword in line..............)4	measure

Elevate pass and take your guard.................2)4	measures

Digitized by L^ooQle
455

Double advance and lunge............

On guard ...........................

Two appells and close to the rear ...

Salute and second...................

Carry arms and rest.................

VII.

Half face to the left, sword in line... Elevate pass and take your guard...

Double retreat and lunge............

On guard ...........................

Two appells and close to the rear ...

Salute and second...................

Carry arms and rest.................

VIII.

Half face to the left, sword in line... Elevate pass and take your guard..

Lunge ..............................

On guard and parry prime. ..........

Encircle and lunge..................

On guard ...........................

Two appells and close to the rear ...

Salute and second...................

Carry arms and rest.................

.2

1

.1

1

4

-M

2^

.1

.1

.1

l

.4

IX.

Close ranks forward..................................2

Form the cross as follows:...........................4

The 1st seven left face, 8 steps forward

The 2nd and 3rd seven y2 wheel left around center

The 4th seven right face, 8 steps forward

Mark time 8 counts and 3rd seven left about face.....4

X.

Once around in the cross......................

By seven, y wheel left around center..........

Once around in the cross......................

By seven, y wheel left around center..........

Center fourteen, y2 wheel right around center

1st seven right face and 8 steps forward......

Last seven left face and 8 steps forward......

XI.

Men

No. 1^1-7-10-13—Six steps backward .......

No. 2-5-8-11-14—Four steps backward No. 3-6-9-12—Two steps backward Women

No. 1-4-7-10-13—Six steps forward No. 2-5-8-11-14—Four steps forward No. 3-6-9-12—Two steps forward All mark time 2 counts and Women left about face

16

4

16

.4

)

)2

)

)

)2

)

measures

measure

measure

measure

measures

measure

measures

measures

measure

measure

measure

measures

measure

measures

measure

measure

measure

measure

measure

measure

measures

measures

measures

measures

measures

measures

measures

measures

measures

measures

measures

Digitized by

Google

J*pr
456

XII.

Long Salute

Half face to the left, sword in line	1	count

Elevate, pass and take your guard...........5	counts

Two appells and close to the rear ..........2	counts

Salute to the left..........................1	count

Salute to the right.........................1	count

Elevate pass and take your guard............6	counts

No. 1 take your distance....................2	counts

Reverse motion..............................2	counts

On guard ...................................2	counts

No. 2, take your distance.................. 2	counts 24	measures

Reverse motion..............................2	counts

On Guard....................................2	counts

Two appells and close to the rear...........2	counts

Rest........................................2	counts

All salute to the left with a Moulinet......2	counts

All salute to the right with a Moulinet.....2	counts

Elevate, pass and take your guard...........6	counts

Two appells and close to the rear...........2	counts

Salute and second..........................  2	counts

Carry arms..................................2	counts

XIII.

Men

No. 1-4-7-10-13—4 steps forward ....

No. 2-5-8-11-14---2 steps forward

No. 3-6-9-12—Mark time 4 counts Women

No. 1-4-7-10-13—4 steps forward No. 2-5-8-11-14—2 steps forward No. 3-6-9-12—Mark time 4 counts All rest 4 counts

XIV.

I4

measures

14

measures

Half face to the left, sword in line............

Elevate, pass and take your guard................

Rest.............................................

Women are No. 1—Men No. 2.

No. 1 advance and lunge..........................

No. 2 retreat and Parry Quarte..

No. 1 on guard and retreat.......................

No. 2 on guard and advance

Repeat—No. 2 beginning..........................

No. 1 advance and double advance, lunge, on guard

No. 2 retreat and double retreat, Parry Tierce.-

Repeat—No. 2 beginning............

Two appells and close to the rear .....

Rest..............................

Women left about face

Men 4 steps forward...............

Vx wheel left by twos and march off.

i2

measure

measures

measure

measures

measures

measures

measures

measures

measures

measures

measures

Digitized by CaOOQle
For Colleges and Universities

Preventive and Corrective Physical Education

Price $3.00

By GEORGE T. STAFFORD, Director Corrective Physical Education, University of Illinois. Illustrated. 8vo, Cloth.

"Well written text for teachers of Physical Education, emphasizing the need of the many who are neither Great Athletes nor Cripples. Good chapters on athletic injuries and physiotherapy."—Science.

"Covers valuable and usable information for giving the physically defective individual the proper type and amount of Physical Education to meet his needs and capacity. A valuable aid and definite stimulus."—Hygeia.

You simply must examine these books if you want the latest and best in corrective work.

For Elementary and High Schools

Corrective Physical Education for Groups

A Textbook of Organization! Theory and Practice Price $4.50

By Charles Leroy Lowman, M, D., F. A. C. S.f Chief of Staff, Orthopedic Hospital School, Lob Angeles; CLAIRE COLESTOCK, A. B., Assistant Director of Physical Education, Pasadena; and HAZEL COOPER, Pasadena High School. Fully Illustrated. 8vo, cloth.

“The finest contribution yet made to the field of Corrective Physical Education, because of the fact that it deals with methods that can be used for the masses in the educational field."—Dr. IVm. R. La Porte, Unto, of So. Calif.

“A Fundamental Textbook. A monumental work on the corrective phase of the Physical Education Program/1

—Hygeia.

Send for new illustrated catalogue on Physical Education, and allied subjects.

A. S. BARNES & COMPANY, Publishers

67 West 44th Street.	New	York

Digitized, by Google