Vol. 2.	DECEMBER, 1895.	No. 22.
						

Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, cook co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, III.

WM. STECHER, secretary of the technical Committee of the n. A. Gymnastic Union, 1830 Papin 8t„ St. Louis,Mo. HANS BALLIN, managing editor, Southern Illinois State normal University, Carbondale, III.

THE NECESSITY OF PHYSICAL CULTURE.

By EDWARD LUEHR, M. D.

WE are living in an age of machinery ; an age in which the forces of nature are more and more subdued and harnessed to turn the wheels of labor-saving devices. The human hand and skill in manual labor become in consequence more and more unnecessary. Steadily with this decrease in demand for manual labor has gone hand in hand a degeneration in the physique of the human family. Look where we may, in every profession and vocation we find a noticeable decrease in^ the size of the men that follow it. Man has always adapted himself to The demands of his time, and he is so constituted by nature that he meets those demands with the greatest economy to the body. In those trades that require physical strength, we invariably find strong and robust men. The blacksmith, the carpenter, the mason, the granger, all have developed those muscles most that are exercised in their daily works. But the exercising of one set of muscles has an indirect tonic effect on the entire muscular system. While the vocations mentioned above are represented by physically strong men to-day, their predecessors of a generation ago were stronger and stouter as a class ; the reason for which lies in the fact, that machinery has prepared many of the raw materials to be used in the ** trades, thus necessitating less manual labor. This evolution has been going on for centuries, slowly but steadily advancing. In recent years, however, it has been more rapid. A common mechanic to-day enjoys greater comforts and many luxuries, that a century ago a minister of state would have been satisfied with. Unfortunately we have a greater and more rapid degeneration to contend with to-day than ever before.

Digitized by LaOOQLe
-182-

Before the invention of gun-powder warriors were trained to be physically strong, as war was then really a hand to hand combat. Gun-potoder seemed to take the premium off physical strength. Our soldiers of to-day would be ill prepared to fight with sword and spear and armor. This is only one of many illustrations.

The ever increasing introduction of machinery has also changed the social relations of man. Machinery is making agriculture on a small scale unprofitable. The rising generation on the farms is forced to find employment in the cities; thus populating the cities at the expense of the rural districts. Increasing growth of cities means more and more sedentary living. The struggle for existence among the masses thus becomes more * and more a struggle of minds, where it used to be a physical one. All this has had a tendency of putting a premium on mental development, in which the body has been lost sight of. This racial and social trans-. formation has been greatest while the present generation has grown up; and the evil consequences upon the human family in its highest civilization are manifesting themselves in manifold ways. I would mention a diminution in the size of the average man, an alarming increase in defective vision, and lack of the power of resisting climatic and atmospheric changes and disease. If deteriorating sequelae are even now being felt in cities, when new blood and life is constantly poring in from the country, “what shall the harvest be” when once that source of new vitality shall cease to be a factor in their development. We must look around for a remedy, and we have one in the physical training of the young, and unless something is universally adopted in the school systems of our cities to head off that progressive deterioration of the body, the average status of our race can never be maintained and that is equivalent to an ultimate retrogression of mind also.

Hence we must look for more improved methods in that branch of . education which trains and developes the body, but more especially for a system that can be adopted in our public schools without seriously conflicting with our present methods in teaching. The objections raised against physical culture in the public schools gradually lose their force. As long as the rural population greatly out-numbered that of the •cities, and the cities were only of moderate size, physical development could take care of itself. The people's eve^-day avocations kept them in constant physical training, and in their vocations they found a diversified employment lor muscles. Improved machinery has brought a change into men’s occupations. The work is no longer diversified, but, instead, is being continually more limited.

We have specialists and experts in every calling and profession. There are expert brick-layers, expert foundation builders, expert plasterers, expert calciminers, chimmney builders, side-walk builders, etc., all of which goes to show how man’s activity has become limited in his daily work, and points out the necessity of an artificial means of developing the neglected muscles. Large cities create a demand for brain workers and writers that have no opportunity to exercise their muscles at all while earning their bread. Hence the necessity of a system of physical training to begin early and continue during life. In schools for the young and in public parks and places, for the grown.

A

Digitized by CjOOQle
-183-

Above all we must make physical health the basis of all education. No system can be of enduring benefit thas loses sight of this principle.

But in school, as well as out, we find the same policy pursued which has actuated all efforts for advancement. Teachers have vied with each other in making walking encyclopedias of their pupils. Children carry home more books for night study than they can comfortably lift. We have sober-faced, tried, and often discouraged young men and women, where we should have happy, merry children. They get into the cares of life before they are out of their teens. What wonder then that we are a nervous people ! When the teacher stimulates her pupils to unlimited exertion, she may not be aware that she is straining their nerves to the highest tension and that some may be injured for life. ' That system of education is the only true and rational one that seeks to develope all powers equally. Physical health can be attained only, as stated above, through the exercise of the muscles. Primarily all the organs of the body are dependent upon muscular contractions (which is the only function of muscles) for their development and their health. The channels through which the muscles exert their influence on the various organs of the body are the blood vessels and nerves. Every movement of any portion of the body is produced by muscular contraction. No movements are possible without contractions of some muscles or set of muscles. In their function to contract the muscles compress the veins in and about them, thus accelerating the flow of blood toward the heart,—as the valves in the veins allow the blood to flow only toward the heart. The influence thus exerted on the circulation has again a secondary influence on all organs in the body, in as much as every organ, including the brain, is absolutely dependent upon its blood supply for its vitality.* Thus is explained the immediate tonic effect on the mind from some brisk exercises, when the mind begins to lag.

The other channel through which muscular contractions (physical exercise) carry their influence, are the nerves,—more important, if less easily explained, than the first. Every muscle cell (all muscles are but aggregations of cells) is linked to a brain cell by means of a nerve. Impulses travel over this nerve either way, like messages between two stations over the telegraph wire. The muscle cell receives its instruction to contract, and relax again, from the brain cell; and on the other hand the brain cell receives its messages from the muscle cell, as to its feelings and comforts, also over the same nerve. These communications between brain cell and muscle cell keep both in a healthy state. These messages or impulses, however, become at once impossible, if either of the cells be destroyed or the nerve severed; and the remaining two parts to our battery being no longer of any use in the economy of the body, suffer degeneration. Thus the destruction of a large number of muscle cells, as in amputation of a limb, causes an actual degeneration of cells within the brain ; and, to go a step further, indirectly every other organ of the body suffers to some extent thereby; as not only brain cells and muscle cells are bound in mutual dependence, but directly or indirectly, ^every other pair of cells in the entire body as well,—not theoretically, but actually and demonstrably.	(To	be continued.)

Digitized by
—184—

Some of the Principles That Guide Me in Teaching German Gymnastics.*

By E. H. ARNOLD, M. D., Yale University.

I READ this paper in answer to many queries for a statement of the principles underlying German gymnastics. Those queries emanate chiefly from those people who have been hazardous enough to adopt almost every feature of our system, even though they did not see and know the principles of it. On the other hand, this paper is to meet those of our friends who state positively that there are no principles at the bottom of our gymnastics, and that therefore there is no need of asking for them.

The trouble with both parties is mainly that they look at gymnastics from their standpoint only, and that they cannot recognize principles which treat of gymnastics from a different point of view than their own.

I shall characterize shortly two of the main directions in which gymnastic thought has been directed by our critics so exclusively that they cannot and will not recognize any thought which does not exclusively and entirely tend in that same direction.

There is, first, what I shall style the developmental school of gymnasts, that think gymnastics must look about like the following, to be up to their standard. Man is a complicated machine, the motion or locomotion of which depends mainly upon three factors : the levers (bones) on which the machine moves; the powers by which these levers are moved (muscles); and finally, the apparatus distributing and supplying fuel to muscles, the apparatus of ^respiration and circulation.

Having these three main factors in mind, the question was, are these factors commensurable ? The question seemed to be an easy one to solve. Measuring rod, tape, calipers, the spirometer, the sphygmograph, should state all about these factors.

In order to make the results of any practical value for the work on the floor of the gymnasium, a standard of measurement had to be established as an aim at which to direct the efforts at physical development. We have seen the model man, the normal man, the average man, and the typical man, rise, and I may say, fall ; for the ideas of this J school of gymnastics have greatly been modified, and must in necessity greatly modify in order to meet the demands of a rational system of gymnastics. Why so? While the figures gained by the above apparatus, and their tabulation, comparison etc., are useful and interesting in the extreme for gaining an idea of the make-up and build of the machine, they do not by any means convey any idea of the effectiveness of the machine. They do not give the truth absolute, nor relative. Why not ?

Let us look at the matter of leverage. It is comparatively easy to measure the bones, but to establish the leverage we must know the exact point of origin and insertion of the muscles in question into the

* Read before the Convention of the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education at New York; April, 1895.

\

Digitized by C.ooQLe
bony surfaces. To establish these with absolute accuracy is not only not easy, but in all cases pretty difficult, — in a good many cases altogether impossible. Our uncertainty grows as we look at our measurements of the executive powers, the muscles. In general, it is true that a big bulk of muscle means great power ; but are the measurements of a muscle or a group of muscles any indication as to what power may be expected of them in an individual ? Again only in a general way, but not absolute at alK The reasons are as follows :

The efficacy of a muscle depends first, on its bulk, as represented about b}' its transverse section, of which quantity we can judge about by the measuring tape; second, on its leverage, as established by points of origin and insertion, a quantity which we can, again, only judge about by the measuring rod ; third, on the arrangement of its fibers. Of this quantity we know something in general, but for individual cases we can, once more, only judge about as to its value. The absolute truth the dissecting table only can reveal. Now last, but not least, comes the fourth factor, — viz ; the innervation. This factor is so complicated a one that we may put it down as yet uncommensurable.

If these, then, are the doubtful factors which are at the foundation of our building, what kind of a building can you expect to stand upon it ? And thus it is. The effort at building up an average machine guided by anthropometric hints is effective as far as giving bulk of muscle is concerned. Whether the bony levers or the leverage (insertion and origin) are changed is rather doubtful, as is a change of arrangement of muscle fibers ; and finally, the innervation, a factor of the highest importance, is not affected at all by exercises as prescribed under the guidance of the measuring rod.

This is, of course, not new, even to the followers of the developmental school. They have seen the shortcomings of their scheme, and the measurements have been supplemented by tests of effectiveness of groups of muscles, and of the machine as a whole. This method must of necessity be the preferable one, if a way of correctly measuring a muscle or a group of muscles can be found. But this is not the case as yet, and will not be the case for some time, as the machinery needed for such a purpose will be extremely complicated and require for its construction a genius of no small degree.

That the fourth factor will need considering, even in the strength tests, may be illustrated by the following everyday observation :

If a man should undergo one of these tests in the seclusion of a laboratory, and then, under otherwise equal conditions, before an audience, the result will differ greatly; showing that the nervous factor differs, not only in quantity in different individuals, but in quality in the same individual. Our psychologists are busily engaged in their loboratories, trying to find ways and means by which to make this, our fourth factor, commensurable. I expect to hear something on this side of the question from Dr. Fitz of Harvard.

If this, be, then, the scientific basis upon which the developmental school of gymnasts rests its art, can it wonder that we are not willing to accept principles which are not yet satisfactorily established ? Is it

Digitized by <^.ooQle
—186—

strange that one looking for principles of this kind in our system of gymnastics should be disappointed ? Then to turn to the practical side of the question. We may well ask will exercises of other character than the ones given as so-called prescription work accomplish the same end? And if so, is the time and labor spent with prescription work not lost, if we can give exercises which serve at the same time hygienic and educational purposes, as well as developmental ones ?

On the other hand, we must consider whether a developmental scheme of gymnastics, which must of necessity deal with each individual separately, will ever be practical for the people at large, and not only for higher institutions of learning * How are such factors in development as social condition going to be dealt with? (Some 20 years ago investigations were carried on by some German anthropometrists, as to the difference in development of children in cities, villages, settlements of miners, etc.; showing distinctly that such things had decided effect on development.) What attitude will this school of gymnasts take towards the individual whose development is completed?

All these questions will have to be solved and answered, before into our system of gymnastics principles can find their way which tend in this direction. Until such time, the results of gymnastics on the developing organism may tell us ubout what mechanical work to expect of the human machinery, but cannot serve as a guide for a system of gymnastics which is intended for the mass of the people, for the school of our time, which deals with classes and not with individuals. In this it may do harm to a limited degree to an individual; but that is the way of other organizations, as the school and the state, which look out for the greatest amount of good to the greatest number, and thereby necessarily infringe upon the rights and priviliges of the individual.

I shall now turn to another school of gymnastics, which I shall style the hygienic school. This title may not suit it altogether, as this school claims to be following educational pursuits too; but any one reading from its declaration of principles will find that the day’s order of this school is built up on hygienic reasoning, and that the educational side is really of less than secondary importance.

The main objection of the followers of this school to our system has been that they have not been able to find any hygienic principles under-Wing our system. On the educational side of the question they have not attacked us, as that is not their own strong point.

I may state right here, that hygienic principles and rules are with us of twofold value. Their positive value is that they guide us in a general way for selecting material, but not in a specific way. Their negative value is that they serve us as contra-indications for certain forms of exercises, under certain conditions as given by different age and sex, etc. Any one who has read Dr. Schmidt’s able little book * will admit that we have hygienic principles, and coincide with me that they serve mainly as contra-indications.

* Physical Exercises and their Beneficial Influence. A Short Synopsis of the German System of Gymnastics. By F. A. Schmidt, M. D., Bonn, Germany. Translated into English; 25 cents; Freidenker Publ. Co.^ Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by Google
-187-

If then, our hygienic rules determine for us classes and forms of exercises only generally, not in detail, nor the exercises themselves, what principles guide me in making up sets of exercises?

Before I answer this question, I must tell you why I cannot allow hygienic rules and considerations to do any more for me. I regard all exercises arranged to have specific effect on circulation and respiration as futile. I cannot assign to circulation and respiration the first place, when considering them for establishing gymnastic principles* They both serve only part of one function, viz.: nutrition. Nutrition is dependent on a good many more factors than circulation and respiration* They fulfill their mission under guidance of nervous influences. These nervous influences are of a peculiar kind. We have no control over them by will. We may interfere with the respiratory movements by will, to a certain limited degree, but we cannot wilfully stop respiration altogether, nor can we regulate it for any length of time. Nor does our interference intercept any more than inhalation and exhalation. That is the most crude process in respiration, that might be called outer respiration. Over the exchange of gases from air in the lung to the blood, middle respiration, nor over the inner respiration, i. e., the exchange of gases from blood to tissue, and vice versa, we have no wilful control whatsoever.

If this be true of respiration, it is equally and much more true of circulation. Over this we have no wilful influence, if we exclude the interference of wilfully regulated respiration and its effect on circulation by way of thoracic aspiration. Both apparatus are self-adjusting, selfregulating, not only as far as rate of speed and capacity is concerned, but different reserve forces are called into play. Our heart dilates, hypertrophies under some forms of exercise temporarily, to contract and atroplry after the condition calling for the first change has disappeared. Indeed, the apparatus is working automatically, adjusting itself to the conditions of health and even of disease, with the utmost facility and accuracy.

What then, of efforts of improving upon this automatic adjustability by exercise for which a specific effect is claimed? An effect which must of necessity be different in each individual. Nor can the^ followers of this school claim that the specific effect is had, even in general, as tabulated by them. I recall to you observations presented to you at our last meeting in New Haven,* by Dr. William G. Anderson, disproving the claim that slow leg movements decreased the heart’s action.

Are the other claims perhaps equally' fallacious? To me, it'seems not desirable to meddle with this automatic, self-adjusting apparatus, as we can but replace it by adjustment by will, which does not pay at all attention to the conditions aud necessities of adjustment in the individual, which necessarily must be very crude as compared with the apparatus with which we all are fitted out naturally. Just imagine under what tremendous handicap a man would be living and working who would have to wilfully adjust respiration and circulation! Is it

* Convention of the American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-188-

not true that the people who are aware, constantly or temporarily, of their heart’s action, are living in a state of worry and anxiety which renders them unfit for any kind of work, and ends in madness if the condition is not relieved? Would we ever have evoluted into our present state of development if we had to stop and pay attention to the most vegetative processes that we have in animal life? And just think of what practical value these hygienic teachings are for everyday life! Did you ever see a man, after a brisk run to catch a car or train, take slow leg movements? Would you, if pursued by a mad dog, after having run to the point of exhaustion, stop one moment to think how your heart would be affected if you would climb that saving tree which you ultimately reach? Would you perform slow leg movements after you reached the top of that tree? What mechanic, whose calling asks him to bend his trunk forward, thinks of taking a bend backward every time he has bent forward, or to always alternate sideward right and left trunk bendings? And yet, our hygienic friends try to persuade us that this is the only way to the salvation of our physique. Yet they claim to be educators. Have they ever heard of the principle that whatever is to be taught in school is to be taught, not for the school, but for life? What, if these principles taught by them were true, would have become, long ere this, of the human race, that did not know of all these essential things for health? Is it not a wonder that we all are not hump-backed and lop-sided? Why has not the species homo sapiens become extinct through heart failure? Why is it that we have ever reached any age beyond that of the small boy? for I am sure he runs without following up with slow leg movements; he bends forward a hundred times and never backward; he climbs a tree much higher than his vital index entitles him to, and commits daily a thousand more sins against the code of health of our hygienic gymnasts: and yet he lives! The small boy has not become extinct, and he is not going to behave any different in the future, just to please some people who labor under misconceptions as to the true condition of the human heart. For verily, ladies and gentlemen, our hearts and lungs are made of much better stuff than our hygienic friends would make us believe; and the adjustment of their working is much more neat and delicate than all the hygienists could devise for some time to come; for this adjustment has been evolved by the conditions and circumstances of life, and any change in this adjustment will come by way of our organs adapting themselves to new conditions, but not by way of edicts of the school room and laboratory.

We are therefore contented to improve these two factors in life in our gymnastic system by increasing their function in a general way, leaving the regulation of their activity to the apparatus provided for that end ; and are honest and modest enough to admit that we, with our present limited knowledge, know of no means by which to alter or improve this apparatus. Our hygienic principles are really of negative value, inasmuch as they serve us as contra-indications, as before said. Therefore you perhaps will understand now why we have been accused of having no principles (i. e., hygienic principles) underlying our system of gymnastics.	(To	be	concluded.)

\

Digitized by CjOOQle
—18‘J—

Girls* Physical Training at the University of Illinois.

THE University of the State of Illinois is not to remain in the background in regard to physical training. Though military drills by stipulation of an endowment has long been taught, it becomes more and more evident in the minds of all educators that playing soldiers is not a training of the mind and body becoming a civilized nation, and that something better and higher is to take its place; a rational body building, based upon pedagogical principles. Though the soldierly spirit of some would-be patriots may deem it timely to inoculate our healthy school-system with what has been thrown over-board by other civilized countries, physical training as a co-educational study will be found more effective.

We gather from some notes of Miss Ella H. Morrison, Director of Woman’s Gymnasium of the University of Illinois, some very interesting notes regarding the beginning of the work in this school, destined to become one of the first of our beloved country. “Mind and Body” is always glad to notice the work done in all our institutions of learning and solicits once more in this place the hearty co-operation of all physical training teachers in giving information of the work accomplished.

The girls’ athletic grounds lie back of the central group of university buildings about an eighth of a mile. They are not surrounded by the usual “high board fence,” but have on the west the fine trees of Burrill Avenue and at other points near by the clumps of foreign and native trees which it has been the policy of the University to cultivate and perfect. The foci of the running track ellipse are two young vigorous trees that have been climbed more than once as part of an hours’ exercise. The four corners of the central ground are covered by tennis courts, there being space for eight. The space within the running track is reserved for rest and for general meetings. A patch of ground south of the track, covered and cushioned by some fine grass, with which the university is experimenting, is used for the rolling, tumbling, and jumping which are part of class exercises. (The grass still thrives.) To the east of this main ground lie the two basket ball fields, the smaller, 75 feet, being used by small classes and by students not vigorous enough for the longer runs and harder playing of the regulation game. Basket ball is played as in Harvard and other places in the east—that is, without the limitations which in many girls’ schools check free movement on the ground and greatly lessen the interest and vigor of the game. It is not considered “good form” for the girls to injure themselves or others and the class records show thus far nothing more than insignificent sprains and bruises.

Hand balls of all sizes and shapes are in constant use on the grounds. Ropes and poles for jumping, ladders for balancing and climbing and a suitable series of free exercises for the use of classes in line, permit a variety which cannot leave many muscles of the body inactive.

The running track (16 laps to a mile) is of course a great spur. Limitations in wind, in speed and in endurance are soon discovered and training in its best sense is begun. No competitive jumping or running is allowed, hence a girl can give close attention to herself and her “form.”

Perhaps you may care to mention the manners of the university farm store house. The girls appreciate them, for great baskets of apples come down with some regularity, sent by the very kind man in charge.*

The al fresco work of the gymnasium is done from 3.15 to 5.15 in the afternoon, four days in the week. Just now, while this remarkable Illinois soil is adapting itself to the change in season, the afternoon classes work indoors. In January daily runs to the field will be resumed with games when possible. Classes are provided with sweaters, leggings and suitable shoes, so that little risk is run even in severe weather by this outing. It is hoped that the year’s work will put far in the background all possibility of “colds” from the simple changes in temperature.

The girls’ gymnasium is a large hall in the third floor of the Natural History Building. It is a charming room for the purpose, having both side and sky

* The Sfirls of this school get plenty to eat at their boarding houses.—Edit.

Digitized by UjOOQle
Basket-Ball at the^Universitv^of Illinois,
-191-

lights, plenty of air, some water, and none but friends on the floors below. »tt'is well equipped with apparatus for both light and heavy work, that for overhead work predominating, and the variety is surprising, considering the simple purpose for which it is given. Individual work is the gymnasium cry for the year, and the floor drills are as far removed as possible from the usual, somewhat limp movements to music with bells, clubs and other light hand apjdianqes., The « unusual vigor and strength of the students make the task of developing form and carriage a very pleasant one. The director reports that measurements sh'ow ai high average and that among seventy-five girls not five invalids can be found! i The gymnasium is open seven hours a day. The last hour is reserved,; for games, and the great increase in the number of students who take advantage of the opportunity for relaxation and play shows that the value of free-exercises at the end of the day, and before the long evening hours of Study come on, is more and more appreciated.

SCHOOL GYMNASTICS.	•

Cook County Normal School Envelope.

XIII.

Long Horse.

Apparatus. - Four (or more) long horses, without pommels, placed parallel to each other,.

proper distances apart. Height—adjustable.	<	;

Four sprirg-fcoaids (class-side—t ehind cioups), highest edges placed close to legs of horses.	:

Four mats, placed under necks of horses (lengthwise) on a lire with the bedy of the horse (off-side).

Class Formation.— Four files of six to ten pupils each, aligned ‘in flank* (pupils behind each other) rear of apparatus (at a distarce irom the sprirg-boards); or, on the left of and at a distance fiom the apparatus in fre nt.

Marching Order.— Pup Is leave heads of files to exerciie, and return lo rear of files'(pass-ing left or right flanks), the class moving a step forward to #ach succession-^ when standirgin flank order. Or, pupils leave fiont of filts and return by the shortest way, or by walking around the mat (to avoid stepping into the way of advancing jupils), passing rear of files— when sianding in frontorder.	t

Preliminary Class Exercises, without apparatus,—pupils at ‘full distance.’

Quarter and half-facings. —Leg-elevations forward, backward, sideward.—Leg elevations in connection with facings. [Ex.: Leg-elevation backward left, hands on hips- stand ! Swing left leg forward, right—face ! Repeat three times. The leg is swung forward vigorously (height of knee) to the facing right and lowered quickly to fundamental standing position. 1-3. Execute left as well as right.] Deep knee-bending positions. ■,

I.

Explanatory.—The length axis of horse (croup to neck) and breadth-axis of pupil (shoulder to shoulder) parallel, the pupil has ‘stDE’-sfandirg, side-stem-support, or sice-sitting position. The length axis of horse and breadth-axis of pupil at right angles, the pupil has ‘CROSs’-standing etc. position. [The pupil has a ‘side stand’ position when star ding sideward left or right of either croup or neck (on board or mat), or, when facing, or with back toward left or right flank of horse ; ‘cross-stand’ position, when standing behind group or in front of neck—face or back toward apparatus—or It ft or light of either left or right flank.

Pupils t heads of files) proceed to fundamental standing position on the beards upon the command ‘March !’ Hands (arms slightly extended) are placed on the apparatus, body poised on tip-toe, at ‘one 1’ Deep knee bending position is taken at ‘two !* The jumping is executed to position indicated in command at ‘three !’ At ‘four-five !* the standing position is resumed. Upon the command ‘March !’ the rank returns to place in line, the following rank of head pupils advancing and the class in the mean time taking a step.forward (or skipping fonvard left or right).

The best possible carriage and bearing (poise of body! must be preserved throughout all movements. [See other lessons on vaulting apparatus ]

Digitized by CjOOQle
(In jumping to position next croup, hands (arms extended) are placed on croup ; to position Aext saddle, hands are placed on saddle.—Jumps on the long horse are 'length-jumps'; i. e., the bo if must be raised backward, fully extended, immediately upon jumping and . before the >ide movement to land is made.) Exercises requiring ‘reach* may be practiced With a running start.

Jiimpta front stem support poiition repeatedly—begin! [Down! Up! etc.]

jump to cross-stand position right (left) of croup.

Jump to cross-stand position right (left) of saddle.

Jump right (left) to side-sfand position in front of croup (qnarter turn inward).

Jtitflp right, (left) to side-stand position in front of saddle.

To jump Loth hands are placed on the croup, the nearest hand remaining on the apparatus until standing position is resumed (from knee-bending position).

^The exercises miy be executed by ‘skipping* in the direction indicated with single arm support during High*—exercises beginning With a walking start.)

»

II.

[Maintain‘active’ chests, heads up, in all stem-support positions — arms (shoulders back), legs and feet (closed) fully extended. The back is slightly arched in all length-jumps and stem-support positions. (Exercises are begun as above ; position on tip-toe—one ! knee-bending pos. —two! jump— three ! down—four, five! March,) Added movements on the horse are commanded, or counted separately.]

Jump right (left) to side-stem-support on croup (quarter turn inward). [Djwn.]

Jump right (left) to side-stem support position on saddle.

Jump right (left) to side-stem support position on croup—1 ! Swing right (left) leg forward under right (left) hand to stem-stride support position — i ! Svmg off sideward (to position left of croup)—3.

Jump right (left) to side-stem support on saddle—I! Swing right (left) leg over with a quarter turn left (right) to cross-sitting position (legs astride, hand* in front)—2 ! Swing off sideward right (left) by raising the body (legs) backward—3.

Repeat, but place hands rear of body to stride-sitting position, swinging off sideward by raising the legs forward.

III.

From cross-sitling position on saddle —legs astride.

Swing legs backward, closing same over horse (arms remain extended); alight to sitting position—begin ! Repeat three times, counting: lr 2 ! etc. Swing off sideward left (right). [Command : Off—1 ! knee-bending pos.—2 ! standing pos.—3.]

Place hands in front of saddle (neck) and swing legs backward to front stem-support position, feet on croup—1 ! Off sideward left (right) to standing pos. next neck—2. [3, 4 !—knee-bending and stretching.]

PJatee hands on croup and swing legs forward to back-stem support

. jfposition with feet on neck—1! Off sideward left (right) to standing pos. next croup—2 ! etc.

Spring legs backward and turn left (right) about to cross-sitting position (legs astride—facing opposite direction). Repeat. Oft sideward, by swinging legs backward.

Swiiig legs forward and turn about to cross-sitting position (hand support rear of body). Repeat. Off sideward, by swinging legs forward.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-193-

To front-stem Support pos., legs backward, feet on croup—swing! Step forward left and right alternately (or hop forward with both hands)

; to end of neck—begin ! ‘Off-stride’ jump forward—1! etc. (Body is pushed off forward, legs astride.)

IV.

Front side-stem support position over saddle. (Exercises are executed left and right - from

both sides of the horse.)

Vault forward over croup (to side-stand, back toward apparatus). ‘Flank-vault.’ The body is raised sideward, the landing following ‘forward,’ without facing—turning.

Same over neck.

Vault sideward over croup, (executing a quarter turn during the vaulting movement, facing neck to cross-standing position next saddle). ‘Face-vault.’

Same over neck, facing croup.

Vault sideward over croup, bending the body sharply at the hips (legs raised forward—body turned toward croup-end of horse). Back-vault.’

Same over neck.

[Exe*cises may be executed from the floor, by first jumping to the side stand in front of the saddle.]

Repeat ‘front,’ ‘face’ and ‘back’-vaults from the board, placing hands on croup, to vault, (omitting the preliminary jump to stem-support position), beginning with walking starts, running starts, or from positions on the board.

Back-vaults may be piacticed over saddle or neck—placing hands well forward.

Repeat vaults in connection with facings.

Length-jumps—leaping—to cross-stand positions next left and right flanks of horse—hands on saddle, neck.

Stride-vaults over horse, as length-jumps.

Qrlje children of the Town of Clitheroe, in England, are not afraid to ask for what they w#nt. According to an item in the Lancashire Daily Post a meeting of the children of Clitheroe was recently held in the market place to petition the Town Council to provide them with playgrounds. There was a fair number present. A boy named John Yates presided. It was decided to send the Mayor and corporation the following memorial : “We, the children of Clitheroe, in public meeting assembled, beg to lay before you our needs in the matter of playgrounds. We have none; if we play at all we are forced to play in—the streets. Then, by your instructions, we are liable to be pounced upon by the police and prosecuted. Such a state of things, we venture to suggest, is very unfair to us, and, seeing that you are

elected to your positions by our fathers and mothers, and as we are sure they would not object to pay a little extra in taxes for our benefit—we are perfectly aware that to provide playgrounds v would incur expense—we beg of you to take this matter into your serious consideration, and do honor to yourselves by recognizing our needs and providing us with playgrounds.”

It would seem as if it ought to prove very difficult for the authorities to refuse to yield to so reasonable and respectfully framed a request as this. Certainly the future of the Town of Clitheroe should be an interesting one, seeing what style of citizens it is likely to have when these brave little boys and girls grow up and “run things” to suit themselves.

—Harper’s Round Table.

Digitized by ^ooQle

/■
—194—

MIND* AND* BODY.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

avdl-weu-uJcee,	'Wiscoaa.slaa..

Subscription Price, s =	$1.00	per	Year.

JH&~ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis.—Address all editorial correspondence to HANS BALLIN, Managing Editor, Southern Illinois State Normal University, Carbondale, 111.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

REMARKS AND COMMENTS.

No doubt, much has been done to foster physical education, but more remains to be done. If we hear of foot-ball games on Thanksgiving Day played by hundreds of teams all over the country, by boys of the universities, colleges, high schools, and even grammar schools, we have to multiply these hundreds of teams by eleven and the sum total dwindles to a sheer nothing in comparison with the thousands of bystanders who cheer, but do nothing. The more the audiences at such public exhibitions of manly prowess increase, and the more foot-ball playing becomes a onesided outflow of youthful vigor of selected teams, the greater becomes the danger to the recognition of a national physical training. True and genuine education must be for the poor as well as for the rich, for the weak as well as for the strong A physical upheaval must be general and popular and we incorrectly speak of a national game or national physical exercise, as long as it is limited to a selected few.

The day after Thanksging our daily newspapers were filled with the most minute and graphic descriptions of

foot-ball playing all over the country. In a few cases we learn of fatal accidents and in many more of accidents of lighter or more serious character. We do not point to these facts for the pleasure of saying ‘I told you so’. We still believe that foot-ball may become a game of educational qualities, but we deny most emphatically at this time that it is practiced as a ‘game*. Youthful players are hardened to the sufferings of their playmates and what can we think of boys and their tutors and of the audience, that can continue to play, to encourage and to-applaud, when one out of their midst is carried away hurt, it may be fatally ? To what do we educate youth when such fatal accidents during play are simply quoted throughout the press: ‘The accident was unavoidable, as the game was clean and devoid of slugging?!	_________

If we had not experienced that there are games and plays which possess all the qualities and merits attributed to foot-ball, the question might be in place ‘What will you offer youth, full of vigor and eager to rid herself of the excess?’ Games are highly esteemed for their educational influence that can only be exercised by a slow process of methodical progression, just as anything else we teach. We must not begin with foot-ball, but with games which lead up to it. Intemperance is always the result of a wropg education and games have in more than one respect all the peculiarities to entice to excrescences. Immoderate practice does not condemn that which is practiced immoderately, but we should at all events look for the causes which bring about a harmful usage. Therefore, we do not condemn foot-ball, but we criticize the practice of giving it to youth that is not prepared and educated for it.

We can have no objection to any physical activity, but we doubt the

Digitized by Google
use fulness of any particular exercise, if practiced exclusively as a means to attain the end. This is the general objection to sports and athletics. Ever since physical training became a concern of teachers and philosophers, this has been demonstrated. We must not be deceived by public sentiment. Public audiences want to be amused in one form or another. We brand bull-fights and prize-fighting, but we are amused with foot-ball. We despise cruelty to animals, but we do not hesitate to educate a hardened feeling toward our playmates when they are injured. If the public wish such amusements, let professional teams, paid men, satisfy their desire, but do not adopt foot-ball as an educational feature and do not expect educational influence from it when played under present circumstances.

We hope that the National Festival of the North American Gymnastic Union at St. Louis in 1897 will furnish ample proof that genuine physical activity can awaken a sound enthusiasm among children, men, and women and that it is not simply to arouse a passing frenzy in a sensation loving audience, but educational force of lasting merit. Dr. F. A. Schmidt, of Bonn, reviewing in the ‘Deutsche Turn-zeitung’ (German Gymnastic Gazette) the Olympian Games to be held at Athens in 1896, arrives at some very instructive conclusions. While he holds, what we also expressed in the last issue of Mind and Body, that this ‘revival’ is rather an exhibition of the present state of sports and athletics, it may teach us unmistakably the lesson that this sort of exercises will never do for the masses of the people, lie is also of the opinion that gymnasts, otherwise imbued with the principles of educational physical training, should not neglect certain sportive exercises. It is true, gymnasts of our country too often become too much attached to gymnastics of the appara-

tus, spending entirely too much time at the practice of beloved feats. These should use every opportunity for out-door sport, especially in seasons well adapted for it. But this advice must not lead to the wrong interpretation of carrying it to the other extreme. Thus we hope that the St. Louis authorities will encourage such exercises which have hitherto received but little or no attention at our national festivals.

No more strikingly can the difference between a gymnast and a sportsman or athlete be explained than by the fact that the former is content to have proved by his participation in a festival his love for physical activity, and is proud when he carries off a diploma or wreath as reward, while the latter vies for the trophy which is in most cases a valuable badge of gold or silver, or a purse, or some other material gain. Says Dr. E. M. Hartwell, commenting upon the festival of 1893, at Milwaukee, “I fear it will be years before our athletic clubs, our colleges and universities, or our schools, either singly or in combination, can hope to rival the best features of the late festival at Milwaukee; for i such notable results as were there achieved cannot be secured by mere ‘hustling’ and the ‘putting up of money'; they require years of patient, assiduous, clear-sighted and self-sacrificing effort on the part of both the rising and passing generation.” And most impressively may the following words of Dr. Hartwell in the same report be heeded, for they are very applicable in our days. “The best interests of rational and effectual physical training must suffer much in this country at the present time from the disproportionate influence exercised by athletic ideals, especially upon scholastic and collegiate youth; and from the undue prominence accorded to athletic contests and contestants by an uncritical public and by a sensation-

Digitized by Google
-196-

monging press. It is natural for youth, on the threshold of manhood, segregated from their elders under the conditions peculiar to school and college life, to be headstrong and self-sufficient. They are eager to distinguish themselves in the eyes of their fellow tribesmen by a vaunting display of individual prowess; and, for the time being, are apt to be animated by narrow and distorted views, and to be insensitive or averse to enlightened public opinion. They are strongly swayed, and frequently overmastered, by the spirit of rivalry which is inseparable from athletic sports; so that at times doubtful and discreditable methods seem admirable and foul means fair. All this is natural to adolescents, who, being the sons of civilized men, pass rapidly in a few years through phases of development that their semi-civilized and barbarous ancestors emerged from slowly and laboriously after generations and centuries of upward struggle. So sudden and rapid has been the rise of athleticism that the generation of men who have recently left the stage, on which our athletic youth now figure so prominently and grotesquely, numbers but few among them who are qualified by insight and experience to serve as the exemplars and advisers of their juniors. The leaching class, as a whole, has so little knowledge of either the art or science of physical education and is still so largely ruled by the traditions of mediceval scholasticism as to lack, in large measure, the qualities requisite for efficient leadership outside of the class room. Hence our athletes have been left, in the main, to their own boyish and crude devices, which tend, when unchecked, towards extravagance and professionalism.”

The Chicago Turngemeinde has endeavored to convince the commissioners of Lincoln Park of the necessity of a gymnasium and an out-door

playground. For a long time their efforts were unsuccessful, though they offered to erect and maintain the building and ground at their own expense. But, finally, they have received the consent and will now without delay carry out their plans. Another Chicago society, Vorwarts, was more successful and had less difficulty with the Douglas Park Commissioners. In compliance with a petition of 10.000 citizens of the West Side they will erect a gymnasium and swimming pool in connection with it. This is certainly very laudable. Just think how much we do in our large cities for our youth in comparison with London that has 7000 public playgrounds! One great drawback is certainly our teaching force; most of it is composed of women who have no desire to lead youth under their charge upon the playground. Still, we are hopeful and must expect from the public school teachers a change of affairs. In time they will and must become the leaders in youthful plays and games, the preparatory school for earnest life.

The Central Park Commissioners of New York City, after consulting a society of fine arts, have decided not to accept tie magnificent gift, the Heinrich Heine Fountain. This beautiful monument, one of the fintst masterpieces of modern sculpture, has two mermaids, an allegory of Heine's famous poem Loreley. Certainly, they are not dressed, being half woman and half fish. Now morality was said to be endangered and for its sake the fountain was rejected. This is an act of affected niceness, a prudery of the most dangerous sort. What does Emerson say of art? ‘Nothing less than the creation of man and nature is its end.* Surely, art and genius will ‘not reiterate its miracles in the old art’, as long as art is supposed to be teaching morality, and as morals are endangered by representing

Digitized by v^ooQle
-197-

‘nature’s finer success in self explication/ the human form, ‘nature’s eclecticism’. But we see in this prudery also the middle age spirit of disregard for the human body, a fear of exhibiting its godlike form and a desire to hide its suffering condition from the public gaze and criticism. This is a spiritual flagellation.

The members of the last Summer School for Physical Training at Milwaukee living in Southern Illinois had a reunion at the gymnasium of the Southern Illinois State Normal University. They conducted the exercises of the girls’ classes and took otherwise a lively interest in the work of the school. They were highly entertained at the home of Miss Mary Caldwell, associate director of physical training. They sent to their teachers the following message, “The southern division of the N. A. G. U. Summer School greets you. Ho ! for the Summer School of ’96 !”

Summer School for Physical Training, under the Auspices of the North American Gymnastic Union Milwaukee, Wis., 1896. Six Weeks, June 28th to Aug. 8th:	Theory	and	practice	of

gymnastics, summer school for public school teachers. Special course for teachers of physical 1 raining. Finely equipped gymnasium. Expert teachers in all departments. Moderate terms. Pamphlets containing full information as to teachers, classes, terms, board, etc., will be ready January 1st, 1896. For further information apply to the secretary, Wm. A. Stecher, 3d and Chestnut Sts., St. Louis, Mo.

The Illinois Society for Child-Study has published No. 3 of the first volume of its transactions. Like its two predecessors this excellent manual of the progress and status of child-study has been edited by Dr. C. C. Van Liew, Northern Normal, who is the secre-

tary of the society. The officers for the year 1895—6 are:	President,

Col Francis W. Parker, Englewood, 111.; Vice-Presidents, Supt. O. T. Bright, Chicago, 111., Pres. John W. Cook, Normal, 111., Pres. H. W. Everest, Carbondale, 111.; Secretary and Treasurer, Dr. C. C. Van Liew, Norma!, 111.; Executive Committee, Dr. W. O. Krohn, Champaign, HI., Dr. C. A. McMurry, Normal, 111., Dr. H. H. Donaldson, University of Chicago, Supt. A. V. Greenman, West Aurora, 111, Dr. Adolph Meyer, Eastern Hospital, Kankakee, ill., Dr Bayard Holmes, Coll, ot Physicians and Surgeons, Chicago, Dr. Wm. L. Bryan, Bloomington, lnd., Supt. Frank H. Hall, Waukegan, 111., Dr. Cornelia De Bey, Chicago, Prof. John Dewey, University of Chicago, Prof. Hans Ballin, Carbondale, 111.— The second annual congress of the society was held on the 16th of May 1895, at the University of Illinois. At present there are 581 members, 498 reside in Illinois, the remaining 79 are scattered all over the states, and one in Canada, one in Cape Colony, one in Japan, one in Scotland. Seven ‘Round Tables’ are fully organized. The Illinois Society for Child-Study was the first of its kind. Since, South Carolina and Iowa have each a society for like purposes und New York’s Department of Public Instruction has taken matters in its own hands, appointing Mr. Chas. H. Thurber, of Colgate University Hamilton, N. Y., as director of the Child-Study Division. The secretary informs the readers that movements are on foot to form other associations m Minnesota and Michigan. The transactions are very interesting literature and are gratis to all members of the society, or may be purchased at 50 cents per copy of the Werner Publishing Company, Chicago, 111.

Digitized by CjOOQle

/
The readers of ‘Mind and Body’ have become sufficiently acquainted with the tactics of Dr. Luther Gulick who is editor of ‘Physical Education’, a journal published in the interest of the department of physical training of the Y. M. C. A. We had several occasions since the publication of this journal to resent these tactics.* The latest operation is to make the readers of ‘Physical Education’ acquainted with a discussion between Prof. Angelo Mosso on the one hand, and Prof. Carl Euler, Dr. Wassmanns-dorff, Prof. Ruehl, Dr. Sickinger, Prof. Boethke, Dr. F. A. Schmidt on the other hand. In this Mr. C. F. B. Wall assists. He endeavored to translate an article of Prof. Mosso, published in No. 42 of the ‘Deutsche Turn-Zeitung’, in answer to Dr. Euler. We would advise Mr. Wall on future occasions to consult with somebody more familiar with German, so as to be able to translate certain words and phrases correctly and also, not to be obliged to omit parts which are most essential for an understanding. However, as now presented, this translation offers to Dr. Gulick an excellent means to point out to the world, and to the members of the Y. M. C. A. in particular, the historic fact that it has really been the great office and merit ofY.M.C. A. gymnasts to arouse a love for games and out-of-d oor sports inthis country. Twice has his journal quoted Mosso as a denunciator of German gymnastics and the ‘Deutsche Turn-Zeitung’ which published Mosso’s letter has had

* We refer our readers to No. 15 of‘Mind and Body’.

half a dozen criticisms on Mosso previous to this letter, but they were ignored. What is the object? Is it to fairly place before its readers the interesting discussions abroad? and profit for the cause of physical training in this country? Hardly, for the translator, Mr. Wall, quotes Mosso’s desire of a development (Entwickelung) of the German system as ‘radical change’ of the German system. This ‘radical change’ will be the lot of Dr. Luther Gulick. His readers do not know anything of the sayings of Mosso’s opponents; this is most likely not necessary, for who will dispute that Mosso is a great physiologist and may not Dr. Carl Euler, Dr. Ruehl, Dr. Wassmansdorflf, Prof. Boethke, Prof. Sickinger, Dr. F. A. Schmidt destroy by their arguments the joyful glee with which he congratulates his readers?

“We are not saying these things merely for the purpose of congratulating the Young Men’s Christian Associations, but in order to show that Professor Mosso has in many respects voiced (!) not merely the feeling, but the deliberate (!) purpose of at least one class of men who are interested and working in this field.”

Q,tneviUctniydjev

gurnet*

For the Year 1896.

PRICE: 25 CENTS.

FRE1DENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St.,

Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-199-

ATHLETICS i AND * SPORTS.

Among the wonderful amateur performances which have so characterized the present year in athletics is that of the champion English walker, W. S. Sturgess. Satisfied that he could cover «ight miles within an hour, the London A. C. afforded him the opportunity at its autumn meeting, held recently at Stamford Bridge. A handicap was formed, and as a result Sturgess not only completed the eight miles, but placed another 270 yards to his credit before the stipulated time had run out. This knocks to flinders the previous best amateur record of 7 miles 1,487 yards and 2 feet, made by H. Curtis, as well as Griffin’s professional hour record of 8 miles 172 yards.

Eleven men opposed Sturgess and they were conceded plenty of start, but at such a clip did the champion travel that he was making his own pace at the four-mile mark. Thence to the end all records were demolished.

Sturgess’ times were:

Distance.	Time.

1	mile ............ 6:59	3-5

2	miles............14:23	1-5

3	miles............21:04

4	miles.............29:01	3-5

Distance.	Time.

5	miles.........36:27

6	miles.............43:58	3-5

7	miles.........51:27

8	miles.........58:56

Sturgess is a member of the Polytechnic Harriers and astonished every one by walking H. Curtis, who had held the championship since 1890, completely off his legs for this year’s title.

In addition to the above records Sturgess had just previously established new times for one, two, and three miles.

Says an English exchange:	“Eight

miles fairly walked in an hour by an amateur marks another step in athletic advancement, and goes on record as the athletic feat of the year. * * * It was originally intended that this meeting should shine with the reflected glory of the L. A. C. team from New York. Several were present, but there was a spirit of gloom over all. * * * With a little better coaching Sturgess would do eight and a quarter miles and beat the long-standing record of Tom Griffiths— twenty-one miles in 2 hours 57 minutes and 25 seconds—almost a quarter of a century ago—Dec. 3, 1870, at Lillie Bridge. Will the L. A. C. assist by giving a race at this distauce, or will the Polytechnic Harriers hold a race ere Sturgess goes out of training? 1879— 81 there were frequent long-distance races. Why not now ? We are sure one would take well, for instance, twenty-

one miles in three hours, gold center; three hours twenty minutes, silver, and three hours thirty minutes, bronze medals.”

HEALTH RULES FOR CYCLISTS.

1. No one should become a habitual cyclist without medical authorization. Before committing himself to an opinion the medical man consulted will do well to examine the beginner on dismounting from the machine as well as beforehand; there are certain cardiac defects which only become recognizable when the subject is under the influence of excitement or fatigue. 2. A cyclist should at first be contented with a moderate pace, not exceeding twelve kilometers per hour (about seven miles and a half). A higher rate of speed should be indulged in after the rider has gone through a regular course of training. If a break in the practice occurs, lasting even a few days, the cyclist should recommence at the slower rate. 3. The temptation to go quickly must be controlled as far as possible. A bicyle travels well-nigh of its own accord, and it is very hard to resist the “delirium of speed.” With a light machine on a good road, and helped ever so little by the breeze, an amateur, even when only half trained, can easily achieve his twenty-five kilometers within the hour (fifteen miles and a half). This is too much, seeing that when doing from fourteen to sixteen kilometers the rider’s pulse rises to 150.—Lancet.

FOOT-BALL.

Ann Arbor, Mich., Nov. 16. Purdue 10; Michigan 12.

Crawfordsville, Ind., Nov. 16. Lake Forest 26; Wabash 0.

Philadelphia, Pa., Nov. 16. Harvard 12; Univ. of Pennsylvania 4.

New Haven, Conn., Nov. 16. Yale 40; Columbia 0.

Detroit, Mich., Nov. 16. Detroit A. C. 16; Normal 12.

Minneapolis. Minn., Nov. 16. Minnesota 15 ; Wisconsin 10.

New York, N. Y., Nov. 16. Yale 26 ; Orange 0.

Normal, 111., Nov. 19. Univ. of Illinois 8; Normal 0.

Ithaca, N. Y., Nov. 16. Cornell 6 ; Brown 4.

Oberlin, 0., Nov. 16. Oberlin 12 ; Adelbert 0.

Chicago, 111., Nov. 16. Northwestern 0; Chicago 6.

Digitized by LiOOQle
-200-

Catnbridge, Mass., Nov. 23. Pennsylvania 17 ; Harvard 14.

Detroit, Mich., Nov. 23. Michigan 20; Minnesota 0.

Champaign, 111., Nov. 23. Illinois 38; Northwestern 4.

New York, N. Y., Nov. 23. Yale 20 ; Princeton 10.

Chicago, 111., Nov. 28. Chicago A. A. 4 ; Boston A. A. 4.

Chicago, HI., Nov. 28. Michigan 20 ; Chicago 0.

Philadelphia, Pa., Nov. 28. Pennsylvania 23 ; Cornell 0.

San Francisco, Cal., Nov. 28. Stanford 6; State University 6.

fiGAMES AND PLAYS.il

C. C. N. S. Envelope.

Nos. 67—70.

Race-Tag.

The leader of the game stands on an elevation of the playground or in front and in sight of the players who have formed sides at a distance of from two to six paces from one another. The leader swings a disc, painted white on the one and black on the other side. The sides have chosen their colors. The disc is suddenly held in such a way that either side, white or black, becomes visible, when the side, whose color is seen, must run, the other side giving chase and trying to secure as many prisoners as possible by holding or tagging them, before they can reach the boundaries of the playground. Prisoners are barred from further participation and form in the rear of the disc-holder. The game can also be played in such a manner that the side whose color is shown, shall quickly drop prone on the ground, those who are tagged before dropping, or the last to drop to the ground, being barred out. In this last form the players may intermingle.

Prisoner’s Base.

The players are divided into two equal parties, each having a goal and a prison, a square base, at the right end of the goal and immediately in front of it. The goals may be from 20 to 50 feet apart, and from 20 to 30 feet wide. One of the party now steps forward and challenges the opposing party to catch him if it can. If he should be caught or tapped by any one of the

opposing party before he can reach his own goal again, he is made prisoner and brought to the base or prison ef the enemy, where he remains until rescued by some one of his own party. This can be done by a swift and courageous runner only, who must tap the prisoner or join hands with him before he can be caught, when he may proceed to his own goal again, unmolested. Both parties continue these sallies until the party which is successful in capturing the most of the opposing party, so v that it is forced to surrender, wins the game. After each sally, or challenge, the resp. player must return to his base, before attempting another sally.

Test-Mettle.

Any number of pupils formed in two equal divisions on the opposite ends of a field, about 25:50 feet in size, can participate in this game requiring strength, skill and courage. A player, called upon by his comrades, advances to meet an adversary from the opposite field, who holds out his outstretched arm as a counter-challenge to hit him upon it. The challenge accepted, (by striking the open hand), the first player must either seek to return to his line by running, or overpower his opponent by holding him to the ground. If he does not succeed in this, another from his side may advance to help him, another from the opposite side engaging in the fray and so on. No more than four pairs should be engaged at one time in order to avoid confusion. Each time a prisoner is secured, (overcome), the command “Halt” is heeded by both sides, the players retiring to their respective goals.

In all other respects the game is conducted the same as “Prisoners’ Base” with the exception that all players running to the wrong (the enemy’s) side, are regarded as deserters, who can be rescued as prisoners, or re-enter the play on their former side.

Tease-Jack.

Jack, a vicious dog, is chained or tied by a long rope to a stake. His tormentors endeavor to shorten the chain by looping it around the stake, (which can also be a chair, held down by some one on or under it,) Jack being watchful that no one can approach the stake with impunity. Jack, finally limited to a small space by the shortening of the rope, succeeds in holding one of the players, who in turn is chained to the stake.

\

Digitized by Google