STATE NORMAL SGHOu

LOS ANOKUS8. CAUVtUMU

MIND AND BODY

Tol. 19.

FEBRUARY, 1913.

No 216

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL" RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

QUESTIONS OF SEX-PEDAGOGICS.*

By DR. GRASSMANN, Munich.

On the 15th of May, 1912 I read a paper before the Schul-kommis-sion des aerztlichen Vereins, Munich (Education Committee of the Medical Association), in which I developed my views on the general question of Sex-Pedagogics. I recognize that the movement in this direction meets a real need, although, up to the present, a practical method of instruction has not been found, nor is one in prospect. The subject is of so much importance, not only to the special guides of the young generation, but to the population at large, that I should like to say a few words in this place, on the international aspects. The question of the Sexual education of youth is the question of the control of one of the most elemental impulses of our nature, in the interest both of the indivdual and the community. In such matters it is not wise to a yield to extravagant expectations. Moreover, it is far from possible to estimate the results likely to ensue from a methodical pursuit of sex-instruction of the young. Before we assume that the great interest in this subject at present prevailing is prompted by a profound concern for educational advancement, we must ask if the deluge of special literature on the subject is anything more, than a passing phase. It is a remarkable fact that from the time of the French Encyclopaedists to the early part of the XIX. century, public discussion of these questions was in abeyance, and that not until the end of the latter century and the beginning of the XX. do they again attract notice. A justification for the insistence on the need of sex-enlightenment of the young is doubtless to be found in various conditions of advancing civilization, which incidentally favor the spread of venereal diseases, such as the increase of population, the great standing armies, of commerce and traffic, the advance of prosperity, and the recognition of the fact that the youth of the race is specially exposed to the dangers a-rising out of the changing of the old conditions by the new. The state-

* Abstract of an article which appeared in the November 1912 issue of the “Internationales Archiv fuer Schulhygiene.”

Digitized by

Google
' • .	— 394 —

ments we see in print abont the prevalence of masturbation are, to be sure, open to question; it is a matter for wonder how recent authors, as for instance Rohleder, arrive at such figures as 90% of all pupils as addicted to the practice. But the much more well-established facts of the prevalence of venereal affections among university students (e. g. those of Hecht in Prague and Meirowsky in Cologne) demand imperative attention. Nevertheless the view that is,so extensively-put forward, that all this sexual mischief is simply the result of our system of sexual obscurantism, and that early sexual enlightenment would put an end to precocious sexual indulgence, is wholly mistaken. Before we can accept such conclusions we must have before us observations of the results of early sexual enlightenment as a prophylactic measure against precocious indulgence and the infection it is likely to bring in its train— a need so far ignored in the discussion. I am inclined to regard the belief that knowledge of sexual matters will prove a practical sexual safeguard to be a dangerous illusion. Yet it is upon the strength of this illusion that the demand for universal sexual instruction—by means of the school—is put forward. Just as the efficacy of universal vaccination against smallpox is proved and the measure justified by the rare prevalence of smallpox in the vaccinated, so there ought also to be demonstrable evidence of the- efficacy of sexual enlightenment against sexual failings and venereal infection. But this evidence has not been produced. The conditions in which the sexually-instructed in town and country live, provide scant facilities for judging. No form of sexual enlightenment is so far-reaching as that provided by medical study itself, and yet we find that even it provides no security against premature intercourse and resulting venereal infection. Not even the actual experience of venereal infection provs an effectual warning against subsequent infection. The apprehension lest early enlightenment about Onanism should prove ^he means of setting children on its track is not wholly without foundation. Sexual enlightenment, even to the full extent demanded at present, is a mockery and a superstition so far as its efficacy as a guardian against venereal infection is concerned. What this superstition shuts its eyes to is the capacity or incapacity of the individual himself for sexual training and discipline. The modem propagandists of sexual pedagogy altogether overrate the importance of sexual knowledge per se. As a recent summary of Rohleder’s educational proposals show, they expect everything from the mere communication of knowledge. The culmination of this sex-pedagogy, the universal methodical instruction of youth even about sexual intercourse in human beings, is the end in view, but this is practically outside the sphere of discussion. The proposal of universal sexual instruction ‘ ignores the difficulties arising out of the individual constitutions of the children’s natures. Many children on account of their environment are not in need of a cut-and-dried form of sexual instruction; others who spend 20 years of their lives in the congested districts of our great towns, are in advance of the school in the matter of enlightenment, so that any such attempt would be a gigantic farce. The much-lauded idea of gradual instruction, introducing the child to the human conditions by the route of biological facts, ignores the disposition of childhood in

Digitized by Google
— 395 —

an astonishing degree. Every normal, inquiring child refuses to be satisfied with such partial answers and subterfuges, and resents the circumvention of the answers by analogies from the barn-door or the garden. Besides, it is a vain hope to expect any such gradual progress, inasmuch as the older children are only too ready to impart the fuller knowledge they have obtained. The younger children cannot be preserved in an artificial condition of half-knowledge. There is no conceivable means of introducing children to the knowledge of sex, little by little. The sponsors of such methods are counting with lay-figures of their own imagining, isolated from the action of prevailing conditions, and not with real children.

The part assigned to the school in recent sex-pedagogics is calculated to rouse the greatest fear. For even in dealing with general matters the great difficulty of the school is to reckon with the varying individualities of the pupils. But there is no subject in respect of which individualities vary more than the one under discussion. There is none which so much defies the attempt to elaborate a method which shall apply to one and all. Moreover, the children are not the pupils of one teacher only, like Rousseau’s Emil, but of several, either at the same time or in succession. Then, the personal relation between pupil and teacher can never be so close as a proper sex-teaching would require. The cut-and-dried routine of the school would inevitably reduce the sex-instruction to a sham. The duty would be certain to fall occasionally to persons with no capacity for it, and harm rather than good would ensue.

On the other hand, there can be no question of leaving these matters where they have been left for centuries. Nevertheless, the proposals of extremists can have no other effect than that of blocking the way of wholesome progress. The present aims must be opposed. They ignore deep-seated sentiments of the people, and are founded upon an almost incomprehensible under-valuation of the existing means of instruction. It is an Utopia to expect everything from the communication of knowledge. For the sexual stamp of the rising generation is always a more or less exact mirror of the condition prevailing in the adult generation. There is no means existing by which youth can be isolated from its environment and preserved purer than the surroundings out of which it springs and into which it grows.

The demand that the school should undertake the sex-instruction of youth arises from nothing so much as from the desire to saddle upon the school a duty which strictly belongs to the family. The real service to society in this respect would be to find means of impressing the public at large with the conviction that the family alone can worthily discharge this duty. It is a duty of the family towards the young among high and low alike. The fundamental relations of mother and child, which occupy the foreground of sexual instruction, cannot be replaced by any artifice of education or other contrivance of universal application. It is impossible to accept Rohleder’s dictum that public sex-pedagogy is the crown of achievement in educational hygiene. The fault of this aim lies, as it appears to me, in the demand to generalize, while the very nature of the case demands individualization. Success.

Digitized by ^ooQle
— 396 —

in this sphere must proceed from the recognition of the same fundamental principles which have been so fruitful in popular sanitation. Just as in this sphere, our efforts must be directed not only towards the combating special disease, as well as to strengthening the powers of resisting disease. So also in the sexual direction it must b6 our aim by a right education to strengthen the influences which are the natural guardians of youth. In the face of the opportunities for sexual indulgence that offer themselves in our great towns all other means are of secondary importance. The theory that fear is a preventive is false. And among the natural safe-guards the first place must be accorded to the discipline of the will. If, then, we want to improve our youth, together with the new communication of knowledge, we must place most reliance upon force of the will as the indispensable weapon against the spread of venereal disease.

CONCLUSIONS.

The conclusions I arrive at are the following:

1.	There can be no question that the youth of our day, the male youth in particular, is more subject to venereal disease than formerly, in consequence of premature sexual intercourse; and also that masturbation is widely practiced. These facts must be taken into consideration by educators of youth.

2.	A radical lessening of the evil cannot be expected without an extensive development of the supervision of youth in every respect. One of the chief agencies in this improvement is the moral elevation of the adult generation itself.

3.	The backbone of the training of the individual, sexual training included, is and remains the formation of CHARACTER.

4.	More energy must be thrown into our effects in this direction. Respect for the opposite sex must be cultivated; the consciousness of the duty towards society of preserving one's health must be realized. The will-power must be reinforced. Sexual pre-occupation of the mind must be antagonized on the principle of “displacement.” The readiest means for the purpose are bodily exercise and rational physical training.

5.	An adjunct to this training should be an intellectual, not sentimental instruction about the nature of sex and its functions, adapted as much as possible to the individual temperament.

6. The degree of sexual instruction suited to the particular case should be imparted in the main by the family, i. e., the parents or their representatives.

7.	This, at present, largely neglected duty of the home should be organized. Parents themselves need instruction by help of lectures, etc. which should be held by physicians and teachers qualified for the purpose.

8.	The proper time and extent of the instruction should be rigorously determined ease by case. No cut-and-dried routine is applicable.

9.	With respect to schools—excepting such boarding schools as represent a kind of family life—all obligatory and methodical sexual instruction is to be prohibited as a violation of the individual character which this class of instruction should possess.

t

Digitized by C^ooQLe
— 397 —

' 10. It is the duty of the management to dismiss or isolate all cor-upt elements from the school-community without consideration of persons. If it is possible it is desirable to find means of attaining this end without resorting to expulsion.

11. The graduates of Extension Schools, Technical and Middle Schools should be warned against the dangers pertaining to sex by means of lectures, attendance at which, naturally, cannot be obligatory. The plan adopted at Halle is a good one, under which the lectures intended for the pupils are first given to the parents.

WHAT METCHNIKOFF IS TRYING TO DO.

(From an Essay entitled, “Metchnikoff and Tolstoy.”)

By SIR RAY LANKESTER, K. C. B. and F. R. S.

Metchnikoff is now devoting all his attention to the possibility of prolonging human life. The facts seem to show if we ate and drank only what is best for us, and led lives regulated by reason and knowledge, we should nearly all attain to eighty or even one hundred years of age, having healthy minds and healthy bodies. We should die quietly and comfortably at the end, with much the same feeling of contentment in well-earned repose as that which we now experience in going to sleep at the end of a long and happy day of healthy exercise and activity. Metchnikoff thinks that the cause of too early death may be ascertained, and when ascertained avoided or removed. In 1870, in a little book on “Comparative Longevity,” I distinguished “life” or “potential longevity,” of any given human being from his or her “expectation” of life. Potential longevity has been well called our “lease” of life. It is probably not very different in different races of men or individuals, and is probably higher than King David thought, being one hundred to one hundred and twenty years, and not merely seventy years. We all, or nearly all, fail to last out our “lease” owing to accidents, violence and avoidable, as well as unavoidable disease; so that seventy years is named as our tenure when the injury done to us by unhealthy modes of life and by actual disease are considered as inevitable. Metchnikoff proposes to discover and to avoid those conditions which “wear down” most of us and produce “senility” and “death” before we have really run out our lease of life.

Now, it is especially with regard to life after forty or fifty years of age that Metchnikoff is interested.

Those who have survived the special dangers and difficulties of yofuth, and have arrived at this mature age, ought to be able to realize much more frequently than they do something like the full “lease of life.” There seems to be no reason . why they should not avoid the usual rapid “senile changes” or weakness of old age, and survive, as a few actually do, to something like one hundred. The cause of “senile change” and the way to defeat their operation are what Metchnikoff is studying. Hardening of the walls of the arteries, set up by certain avoidable disease contracted in earlier life, and by the use of alcohol (not only to the degree which we call “drunkenness,” but to such a degree as to make one depend on it as a “pick-me-up”) is an undoubt-

Digitized by
ed cause of that weakness and liability to succumb to other diseases which is so general after fifty years of age.

The causes which produce hardened arteries can be avoided.*

Another cause of senile is declared by Metchnikoff to arise from the continual absorption. of poisonous substances produced by the decomposition of partially digested food in the lower bowel or large intestine. This is at present the chief subject of his study. It is to prevent the formation of these poisons that he has introduced the use of sour milk, prepared with the lactic ferment.

Metchnikoff has made some very interesting experiments in progress with animals. He used the large tropical fruit-eating bats, or “flying-foxes” and also monkeys. Bats have a very short intestine, and very few bacteria and of very few kinds are to be found in its contents. On the other hand, there are as many as thirty distinct kinds of bacteria producing putrefaction or other chemical change in the digestive canal of man—and their quantity is gigantic. They prevade the whole contents of the human digestive canal by millions.

By properly feeding the flying foxes in his laboratory in Paris, Metchnikoff actually succeeded in getting rid of all bacteria from their digestive canal, so that he obtained ‘adult mammalian animals, not very remote from man in their structure, food and internal chemistry, which are absolutely free from the intestinal parasitic bacteria which he supposes to cause poisoning and senile changes in man.

It is obvious, without pursuing the matter into further detail here, that Metchnikoff is in a position to test his views as to the action of particular kinds of bacteria—he has animals which are free from them. He can make an experiment, keeping some of his bats still free from bacteria and causing some to be largely infected by this or that kind, and he can compare the result in regard to the health and chemical condition of the animals. So, too, the patients from whom the lower intestine has been removed, may very probably furnish him (through his assistant who remains in London) with important facts for comparison with the conditions of persons who have not been deprived of this part of the digestive apparatus.

I have given this sketch of what my friend is doing, in order to furnish some notion of the kind of investigation which he pursues. He does not expect to extend the “lease” of human life, but by ascertaining in a definite scientific way the true rules of internal “hygiene,” he does hope to give mankind an increased “expectation” of life; in fact, to enable- a vastly larger number of men and women to enjoy that lease to the full, and to die without disappointment and regret, even with contentment and pleasure, at the end of it.

“In the fourth and fifth decade (of life,) even with the best of habits in eating and drinking, the incessant strain and anxiety of public life or business may lead to degeneration of the blood vessels.

After the age of forty it is exceptional to examine the arteries without finding evidence of degeneration.”

Dr. William Osier, Oxford University.

“It is shown by statistics that we die 16 years before we reach the maximum usefulness of life.”—Dr. Harvey W. Wiley.
— 399 —

THE RECREATION COMMISSION/

By DWIGHT F. DAVIS, Park Commissioner, St. Louis, Mo.

Our conception of the meaning of the term “recreation” has broadened tremendously in the last decade. Formerly we thought of “recreation” as referring merely to play, especially the play of children, as adults scorned the idea that they too might play. Even the instinct of children for play was looked upon as a rather wise provision of mother nature, designed to fill in the years until the child became a money-making machine. The adult who dared occasionally to play was looked upon as an incorrigible idler, or as a plutocratic parasite on society. ,

Nowadays all this is changed. We have come to realize that play is an absolute necessity in the healthful growth of the normal child, that through properly-directed play not only the minds and bodies, but especially the moral natures of the children can be developed in ways and to degrees impossible through other agencies. Recreation, then, has come to mean not only play, but also education, physical culture and ethics, and has even a commercial side, through the dance hall, moving-picture show and other forms of commercial recreation. The fact that this latter field has usually been an influence for evil instead of good does not indicate the failure of this influence, but rather its perversion along improper lines.

Even for adults the necessity for recreation has been slowly perceived. We are beginning to realize the danger to the community of allowing men to be worked twelve hours a day, seven days in the week, of permitting children of tender age to be exploited in mine and factory, or the mothers of the race to be overworked at the very time when they most need rest and care. The efficiency expert is teaching us that even from the economic standpoint overwork is dangerous, while the recent investigation of the effect of overwork on women has shown not only the economic waste but the irreparable damage to the community.

Recreation, therefore, is now recognized as a valuable, indeed an absolutely essential factor in our civilization. This recognition has brought about many important developments in local and national policies. The limitations of the hours of labor for men and women, the absolute prohibition of labor for children under certain ages, these are essential if the leisure necessary for recreation is to be given. The establishment of playgrounds and recreation fields and the broader use of park and school grounds are their necessary corollaries, by affording the opportunities for the healthful use of this leisure time. The playground movement, originally limited to the providing of play space for children, is steadily broadening and is slowly grappling with the problem of organizing and influencing the recreation of adults as well as of children.

This increased realization of the importance of recreation to the

♦Address delivered at the Sixth Annual Meeting of the Playground and Recreation Association of America, June 6, 1912.

Digitized by
— 400 —

community has raised many new problems in dealing with the proper organization and management of both public and private recreation. One serious difficulty confronting most municipal enterprises, that of political control, the recreation movement has in most instances escaped, due to the fact that the development of public recreation has been an outgrowth of the playground movement. Even in cities most strongly dominated by partisan politics the feeling has been steadily growing that the schools at least must be kept free from the spoils influence. The playgrounds, dealing as they did with much the same children, using in many cases the same properties and employing the same trained instructors, benefited by this latent feeling and were thus more easily kept free from improper political influence. In many cases, also, the playgrounds had been started by private citizens, who were unwilling that the cause for which they had made many sacrifices should suffer when it was taken over by the city government. In order that the benefit of their knowledge and experience be retained, but more particularly that the training of the children might, not suffer from political control, many cities established recreation commissions, into whose hands were committed the direction and management of the playgrounds, public baths and similar institutions.

With the broadening of the field of recreation, however, new problems confront the recreation commissions. The -most important of these problems are those arising out of the direction and control of the recreation of adults and the supervision of commercial recreation. The first presents few difficulties. Although differing in detail from the questions which have arisen in connection with the playgrounds for children, they are similar in character and through experience and experimentation will be easily solved. The broader use of park and school properties, the development of recreation fields which offer facilities for tennis, base-ball and golf, the building of swimming-pools, the extension of folk dancing to the older people, evening lectures and entertainments, these and other activities are being provided to a constantly increasing degree. The problems deal largely with administration and will be handled without difficulty by the department charged with the responsibility, whether it is the recreation commission, park board or some other department of the city government.

The regulation of the private or commercial side of recreation, which has in recent years become more and more developed, through the moving picture shows, dance halls and other agencies, presents a more difficult problem. The tremendous influence of these commercial amusements upon public morals is now beginning to be realized. It is obvious that the community must regulate them in self defense. Whether to entrust this power of regulation to some existing governmental agency, or to create some new body to perform these duties, is a serious problem. Theoretically the regulation should be done by the police force, but practical experience has proved that under present conditions, in America at least, police regulation of' commercial recreation has been unsatisfactory and often demoralizing to the force itself. The fact that political influence is still a potent factor in police affairs, and that the dance halls and moving picture shows are in probably the

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 401 —

great majority of cases under control of men who exercise considerable political pressure, makes regulation of commercialized recreation by the police force a farce at the present time in most cities.

The situation has brought about the demand for regulation of commercial recreation through some outside governmental agency, such as special commissions, or where they exist, by recreation commissions. Two phases of this problem have been presented: the first dealing with the investigation of conditions, and the second with the regulation of the evils invariably found to exist. While of course, investigation is necessary before curative methods can be properly applied, the existing conditions are so well known to anyone familiar with modem city life, and have been so clearly set forth in the reports of the Chicago Vice Commission, the Kansas City Board of Public Welfare and similar bodies, that it is to be hoped little time will be wasted on this preliminary step. Investigation may be necessary to determine the form which the evil has taken under local conditions, but it is unnecessary in order to determine whether or not the evil exists.

The second phase, the method of regulation, presents a more difficult problem. The ultimate solution, it seems to me, must be through the police force, acting under the pressure of an enlightened public conscience, awakened at last to the enormity of present-day evils, and determined for self-preservation to stamp them out. Until this happy day comes, however, temporary measures must be taken, and the question arises whether this temporary duty of regulation shall be thrown upon the recreation commissions already existing, or upon newly created bodies. My personal opinion is that in cities where the regular police force cannot, or rather will not, handle this problem, the duty should devolve on some other body than the recreation commissions. Most of these commissions are made up of men and women who are interested primarily in the training of children, and who are unfitted both by temperament and experience to cope with the quite different problem of regulating commercial recreation. The average member of a recreation commission has no conception of political conditions which are a potent factor in commercial recreation at the present time, and would not know how to deal with the underground influences which must be fought if the regulation is to be effective. Then too the commissions, while they ordinarily have the confidence and esteem of the public behind them in the management of public recreation, have not the authoritative official influence in dealing with public morals and conduct that will be necessary in regulating commercial recreation. The commissions usually are organized as administrative, not as regulative bodies and their organization and powers would have to be radically changed to enable them to cope with the new problems presented in such regulation. In fact there is no more reason for the regulation of the moving picture show or dance hall by the recreation commission than of the saloon. And finally the fight against the subtle influences behind the dance halls and moving picture shows might endanger the comparative immunity from this influence which the playgrounds have enjoyed, if the regulation of these amusements is put under the 6ame commission that directs the playgrounds.

Digitized by {^.ooQle
— 402 —

For these reasons I do not believe that the recreation commissions, as organized in most cities, are the proper bodies to undertake the difficult task of regulating public recreation. Personally, while I deprecate the establishment of new commissions for every conceivable purpose, I believe that the plan adopted in some cities of a1 commission composed of representatives of bodies already organized, might be tried as a purely temporary expedient, to deal with this problem. The school board, park board or recreation commission and the police force are all vitally interested in this question. A commission composed of. representatives of each of these bodies, together. with a few citizens especially interested in and qualified for this work should exercise a great influence in the proper solution of this problem. Such a body would also assist in co-ordinating various departments which are dealing with the same problems from different angles.

Their most important service, however, would not, in my opinion, be the actual regulation of the evils known to exist, but rather the. education of the public to the realization of their extent and of the danger to the community of allowing them to continue.

The whole subject of recreation is in the early stages of evolutionary growth. The first step was the playground for children, maintained-by private initiative. Gradually the public recognized the value of this work to the community and took it over as an essential part of the city governmental machinery. Later this recognition extended to the recreation of adults, and this is now being largely developed. The possibilities as well as the dangers of the dance hall and moving pictures are now dimly realized, and it does not require a great exertion of the imagination to see them passing throug the phase of public regulation to that of public ownership. Socialistic, perhaps—but if socially necessary, the name should frighten no one. The' public school, the public playground, the public bath, though socialistic, are none the less valuable to the community and this would be equally true of the public dance hall and the public moving picture show.

The control and management of recreation should in my opinion, follow the same evolutionary steps. The education of the public through private initiative to the value of playgrounds has already brought about their establishment and maintenance as a regular part of the work of city government. The proper provisipn for adult recreation is simply an extension of this idea. And finally the prevention of the evils incident to the unregulated private management of commercial recreation should ultimately be undertaken by the regular body organized for preventive regulation, the police force, while the constructive adaption to public use of the forces first developed through private initiative in commercial recreation should be the duty of that department of the regular city machinery already charged with the responsibility of directing the facilities for public recreation.

After all, the question of the proper control of recreation facilities is merely a small part of the whole problem of city government. Government, whether of city, state or nation, should be brought closer to the individual citizen. If our theory of universal suffrage is correct, the responsibility for evil conditions rests on him, and'he should have

Digitized by

Google
— 403 —

the full power to correct them. The more this responsibility is brought home to him in his daily life, the quicker will he awake to the necessity of his fulfilling the duties connected with it. Instead of striking at the roots of corrupt politics, we have in the past gradually taken away from the city governments control of many of the functions which vitally interest us, with the result the average citizen has been content to abandon the remainder of the machine rather than to take the trouble of fighting the conditions which he has dimly realized. A paternalistic management of vitally important functions by outside commissions may bring better results in that particular field, but if by so doing it makes the citizens unwilling to undertake the responsibility of correcting conditions in other lines, the cost of efficient management—even if it were always obtained through unpaid commissions,, which unfortunately it is not,—would be too great. So it is with recreation commissions. They have been established in the past largely because of the fear that the regular city government would not properly carry on the work. As a temporary expedient, designed to educate the public to the importance of the movement and to the necessity for its proper conduct, they have served their purpose. Ultimately, however, the commissions must cease to be, as they have often been in the past, more or less independent of the regular city government, and must become a part of the regular machinery. Our problems, whether of preventive regulation or constructive upbuilding, must finally be worked out through the regular governmental channels, unless we are prepared to admit that we are unfit to govern ourselves.

A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC

UNION.

By HENRY'METZNER.

(Translated from the German by Theo. Stempfel, Jr.)

THREE PIONEERS OF GERMAN-AMERICAN GYMNASTICS.

The centennial celebration of the opening of the first Turnplatz has a vital significance for this couutry. It is no exaggeration to assert that the greater portion of all physical training systems practiced in the public schools of the present day, at the universities and colleges, in the clubs and the schools devoted solely to that end are based on the theories of German gymnastics. That this is so is due to the pioneer work of Friedrich Ludwig Jahn and of his disciples, Carl Beck, Carl Follen and Francis Lieber, who fled to this country, during the political turmoil in Germany which followed the overthrow of the foreign tyrant, Napoleon.

Upon rehearsing a history of German-American gymnastics, no matter how brief and concise, three eminent German scholars and disciples of Jahn, Carl Beck, Carl Follen and Francis Lieber, will always remain pre-eminent and worthy of special mention. In order to evade the persistent espionage and the political persecution to which they were exposed as prominent members of the Burschenschaft, these men

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 404 —

fled the confines of their fatherland and crossed the Atlantic to the land of liberty, where they were the first to introduce Jahn’s system of physical training, and to incorporate it in the liberal education of fjie colleges and universities.	'	’	■

It was not their immediate or even their ultimate amjntiop. to establish gymnastic societies on American soil, such as existed in Qer-many at that time, but they were pioneers in the sense that they established gymnasiums, based on German models, equipped with German apparatus, and thus they cleared the way for the attempt to train the body as well as the mind in the American institutions of learning. Their success was not lasting, for when they were no longer personally identified with this movement, the practice of gymnastics was gradually discontinued or directed into other channels. But this does not lessen the service of Beck, Follen and Lieber, for they remain the pioneers of German-American gymnastics.

Carl Beck was born August 19, 1798,’ in Heidelberg, Germany. When in 1810 the family moved to Berlin, where Beck’s step-father occupied the chair of theology, young Beck, who attended the gymnasium, distinguished himself as an unusually active Turner on the Hasenheide and gained the immediate friendship of Jahn. He was too young to take service in the campaigns against Napoleon, but later in life, as a student and member of the Burschenschaft, he was active in the struggle for personal freedom and national independence.

Beck completed his studies at the University of Heidelberg in 1822; was ordained as Lutheran minister and received the degree of doctor of philosophy from the University of Tuebingen. His stepfather, De Wette, had sometime previously been banished to Switzerland, because he had written a letter to the mother of Sand, the assassin of Kotzebue, and Beck moved to that country where he became professor of literature and Latin at the Paedagogium in Basel. With Carl Follen he had participated actively as a Turner and member of the Burschenschaft in the movement which aimed at the liberation of Germany and the emancipation of its people from a government under the tyrannical guidance of the omnipotent Metternich, the Austrian minister.

Carl Follen, born in Giessen, September 3, 1795, was the second oldest of three brothers. The three enlisted in the army, and at the close of the campaign against the French Emperor, together with a number of like-minded friends, they were charged With demagogy and became the victims of political persecution. Carl Follen wrote a defense of the Burschenschaft, published a number of highly poetic son^s on Turning and Liberty, and fearlessly maintained the cause of the Hessian people against their government. He managed to escape arrest by his flight to Paris and from there to Basel, where he accepted a position as teacher.

When the Prussian government could not prevail upon Switzerland to deliver Beck and Follen into its hands, and. threatened war in order to attain this object, the two political refugees were finally forced to look for another place of safety. America was the promised land, and after obtaining letters of recommendation from General Lafayette

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 405 —

in Paris, they took passage for their new home, and arrived in New York on Christmas day, 1824.

The personal appearance of Beck inspired confidence and this together with the letters of recommendation, soon enabled him to obtain a position that was well suited to his tastes and talents. With J. G. Cogswell, an eminent scholar, and George Bancroft, the famous historian, he established a boy’s school at the summit of Round Hill, in Northampton, Massachusetts. During his five years of activity at this institution, he gained recognition as a teacher, and established the first gymnasium in America based on Jahn’s-models. During this period he also translated into fenglish Jahn’s book, “Deutsche Thirnkunst,” and published it in Northampton.

Carl Follen was active as a teacher in the Round Hill school until 1826, when he was called to Harvard as professor of church history, and later of German language and literature. At this university, Follen introduced German gymnastics, and established the second gymnasium in this country, based on the principles of Jahn.

The influence of the Round Hill school spread still further, and in September of the year 1826, Yale granted the sum of $300 for the endowment of a gymnastic field and for the purchase of gymnastic apparatus to be placed on the college campus. At the same time, the brothers Devight opened the “New Haven Gymnasium,” in which gymnastic exercises were given a prominent part. In 1828 a number of Amherst students established a Tumplatz which was *fairly well equipped with gymnastic apparatus of German invention. All these gymnasiums can be attributed to the example of Beck and Follen.

Owing to the efforts of Dr. John Collins Warren, a follower and promoter of the system of physical training introduced by Beck and Follen, the Tremont gymnasium was established. Dr. Warren, who had become acquainted with Jahn’s activity in Germany, through his friendly intercourse with these two disciples, had conceived the idea of obtaining the services of Jahn himself to conduct this gymnasium, but lack of funds prevented him from carrying this idea beyond its mere conception. Dr. Francis Lieber, the third of the German pioneers in the field of physical training, was obtained to fill this vacancy.

In spite of the many successes with which Beck, Follen and Lieber met in the department of gymnastics soon after they established themselves on American soil, their influence was not vital enough to be enduring. For Turning, in the sense that Jahn conceived it, there existed neither the right comprehension nor the favorable conditions under which it had flourished in Germany. “The introduction of gymnastic exercises throughout the country.” writes Dr. Warren, “promised for a time to be the beginning of a new epoch of education. As long as they charmed by their novelty these exercises were pursued with zest, but since their value and importance was not generally understood, they were gradually neglected, and finally forgotten. However, the results which these institutions accomplished excelled, in my opinion, the most extravagant expectations.”

After some years Beck, Follen and Lieber found themselves forced to drop the teaching of gymnastics. Their eminent erudition in other branches of knowledge directed their activities into differ-

Digitized by (^.ooQle
406

ent channels, where they gained. influence, distinction and a reputation far beyond the confines of their second home.... . .

In 1827 Dr. Beck married Miss Louise A. Henshaw. In 1830 lie erected his own school in Phillipstown on. the Hudson, and from 1832 until 1850 he was active at the University of Harvard. Upon resigning his professorship at Harvard he devoted himself eagerly to his duties as a citizen and to his private studies. He was elected twice to the state legislature, and was a member of several literary societies. He visited Germany thtee times, partly in order to recuperate and partly for literary research. At the outbreak of the civil war he enlisted as a private in a company of Cambridge volunteers, but was finally rejected on account of his advanced age which, however, did. not prevent him from fitting out hundreds of soldiers with his own means and sending them into the field of battle. He died March 19, 1866.

' Carl Follen became a member of the Harvard faculty in 1831, where he held the chair of German language and literature for five years. At the same time he gave lectures in Yew York and Boston on the German poets, which were attended with great success. It was through, his. influence that the German language and literature took such deep root in the intellectual circles of Yew England at that time. In 1833 he became a member of the anti-slavery society, and thus he forfeited his re-appointment to Harvard university.

His “Address to the American. People,” which he had written at the request of the anti-slavery society, appeared in 1836, and in this he laid down the principles upon which this society maintained its attitude toward the question of the day. The pamphlet made a deep impression, but called forth vehement opposition on the part of the pro-slavery press, which reproached him for hurling firebrands into the social and political life of his new fatherland. Follen replied energetically, and asserted his right to maintain those very principles in his new home which he had defended in his native land and which had resulted in his flight from political persecution.	.	.

Follen was ordained as Unitarian minister and was the head of a congregation in Yew York in this capacity until 1838, when he accepted a call to East Lexington. A great portion of his time was devoted to his literary and political lectures and to other literary pursuits. The translation of his revolutionary songs written during the storm and stress period of Germany is worthy of special notice.

In the winter of the year 1840, he accepted an invitation to lecture on German literature before the Yew York Mercantile Library. He was forced to discontinue these lectures in order to attend the dedication of the newly built church at Lexington. On February 13, 1840, he embarked on the steamboat Lexington, which was to convey him home. That night the ship caught fire, and, with the exception of two sailors, everyone on board was either drowned or burned to death.

The tragic death of Follen called forth general sympathy, and even his bitterest opponents on the question of slavery shared the general sorrow which followed his unfortunate death.

Francis Lieber, the third of the Turner pioneers, was born in Berlin, March 18, 1800. He too felt the tyranny of alien domination and

t
— 407 —

caught the enthusiasm which inspired the people to revolt. At a very impressionable period of his life he became one of the devoted followers of Jahri. When the call to arms resounded throughout the land in March of the year 1815, he and his brother were among the first of the many young men who enlisted to fight against Napoleon upon his return from Elba. At the victorious close of this memorable campaign, during which he was severely wounded several times, he eagerly resumed his studies.

His intimacy with Jahn and his love for freedom resulted in a political persecution, and finally in arrest. Since attendance of a Prjis-sian university was denied him, he completed his studies at Jena. As it was impossible for a man of his convictions to entertain any hope of ever being employed in the service of the state, he allied himself with a number of young men in Dresden who had organized a society in order to take part in the Grecian struggle for independence against the Turks.

Bitter disappointment followed upon his previous enthusiasm, for during his three months stay in Greece he came to respect the Turks more than the Grecians, whom he had come to liberate, and with a number of other disillusioned young'men left Greece. Without means and without passports he arrived in Rome, where he applied for help at the Prussian ministry, which at that time was headed by the famous historian, Niebuhr, who took an immediate interest in young Lieber and entrusted him with the education of his youngest son.

Niebuhr interceded with King Friedrich Wilhelm III in behalf of the young man. Under pledge of immunity from the Prussian monarch, Lieber returned to Berlin after he had spent a year in Rome. Even the promises of kings sometimes prove elusive pledges to build upon, for immediately upon his arrival in Berlin, Lieber was arrested and taken to the fortress Koepenick. Although Niebuhr was successful in gaining him his freedom, Lieber did not feel safe in Germany and sailed for London, and eventually from there for America, where he arrived in the year 1827.

He first located at Tremont, where he interested himself in gymnastics. Later he founded a swimming school in Boston, a new departure in the educational field, and John Quincy Adams, President of the United States, paid a personal visit to this novel, establishment. Lieber’s thorough and general knowledge gained for him the esteem and respect of all educational and political circles, as well as the friendship of many eminent scholars, authors and statesmen. During, the civil war he spent a large portion of his time in Washington, where he became an intimate advisor of the administration on questions of military and international law.

He acquired a reputation as an authority on the problems of the day and on all questions touching upon political science. His first great work appeared in 1837, under the title “Manual of Political Ethics.” It was followed by “Legal and Political Hermaneutics” (1839), and “Civil Liberty and Self-Government” (1853). Of these three, which are considered his greatest works, the last-named has become the most popular. His last literary work, “The Origin of the

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 408 —

Constitution of the United States,” remained unfinished at the time of his death, October 2, 1872.

I'he motto above the door of the study of Francis Lieber read:

“Patria Cara,

Carior Libertas,

Veritas Carissima.”

It was also the motto of his life, for it was the motive in all of his activities. No matter how dear his native land, liberty was inore precious .to Francis Lieber, and truth he prized as the highest ideal of all.

Those who are in any way indentified with or interested in Ger-man-American gymnastics of the present day, have good reason to be proud of its three pioneers, Beck, Follen and Lieber. In their love for the adopted fatherland they dedicated to it the full sum of their rich knowledge, and spared no energy in the cause of patriotism.

(To be continued.)

The fcffebt of bold Feet on the intellectual Activity 6f Schoolchildren.

Summary of an article by DR. «T. BRANDAU, Wilhelmshoehe-Kassel.

1.	Chronic coldness of the feet is in many cases due to hyper-idrosis. (Excessive moisture of the feet).

2.	A mixture of equal parts of the aqueous solution of formalin and alcohol may be applied without prejudice to health for suppressing the excessive perspiration and the coldness of feet engendered by it.

3.	Habitual coldness of the feet may induce disturbances of the cerebral circulation and states of congestion in other organs, especially in the respiratory.

4.	It is probable that accumulation of the products of fatigue and other anomalous states of the constitution of the blood are favored by disturbances of the cerebral circulation.

5.	The increase of the aesthesiometric curves proves that the power of distinguishing tactile impressions is diminished by the condition; and that the intellectual faculties must be depressed which are normally manifested in power of application or attention, receptivity and judgment, and of dealing with school tasks in general.

6.	Observations made upon school children conclusively prove that the remedy of the hvperidrosis and the attending condition of co}d feet results in improvement of both the physical and intellectual abilities of the pupils.

7.	Both from the pedagogic point of view and from that of educational hygiene, it is accordingly desirable that excessive perspiration of the feet should be intelligently treated during the period of school-attendance.

Digitized by L.ooQle
— 409-

First Congress of Scientific Research for Sport and Bodily Exercises in Oberhof i. Th., Sept. 20 to 23, 1912.

By PROF. DR. F. A. SCHMIDT, Bonn, Germany.

(Translated by Carl L. Schrader.)

Suggested by the equipment of the sport laboratory in connection with the exhibition of hygiene in Dresden, a permanent organization for scientific research of “sport and bodily exercise” was formed in Berlin, its first aim was the erection of a sport laboratory in connection with the new stadium in the Grunewald. Thanks to the sympathetic attitude of the city of Charlottenburg and the personal efforts of Dr. Gottstein, the city councilor, building on this home .for research has already begun; At first it will only be a modest building which is to be replaced by a massive structure upon completion of the stadium. Similar institutions are being planned in the Alpine region, the sea shore and in Obershof, the centre of winter sport. . To accomplish this it became necessary to make the organization national in scope. This, then, was the chief motive in calling this first congress, which hereafter will meet annually. Between 70 and 80 attended.

The sessions of the first day were conducted under the chairmanship of Geh. Rat, Dr. Kraus, the eminent clinician of the University of Berlin. The first lecture was by Dr. Kraus on the subject “Exercise in sport.” In a concise way the speaker stated the effects of sport on the different constitutions; * how near together lie beneficial influence and permanent injury; how functional hypertrophy of the heart turns to permanent enlargement in excessive sport. How fatigue in nervous pre-disposition leads to over fatigue and increased irritability. He further called attention to the deforming of the body by excessive development of single groups of muscles, as an example of which round shoulders and flat chest were cited, resulting from excessive exercise in hang and in support. In order to properly direct the physical education of the nation he considered it essential to investigate the various forms of exercise in their effect upon the body, and conduct systematic scientific research. This he said was to be the purpose of this new institution, tp state definitely the boundary between wholsesome exertions and fatal excess; in order that physical education and sport may become mighty factors in the retaining and promoting of national physical power.

The second speaker Prof. Dr. F. A. Schmidt, then spoke on the subject of “The proper means of conducting physical exercises during school age and the period of transition from 14—17.” He expressed the opinion, that the determinations of the sport-laboratory could^ only have a limited bearing upon the solving of a number of important questions, which concerned physical education by means of gymnastics and play in the school and continuation school.

The laboratory investigations of competing athletes and gymnasts^ he stated, dealt entirely with matured, healthy and physically especially well endowed young men, who in addition to their profes-

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 410 —

sional pursuits, voluntarily carried on those various sports. The school youth, however, is obliged to exercise and play,, and has the kind and amount of exercise prescribed. The children, he argued, were in the midst of growth, and in many instances were afflicted with physical defects such as anemia, weak musculature and impressionable skeleton, due to rachitis, resulting in scoliosis, scropula and mal nutrition. To this must be added the influence of the school life and conditions. These factors must be kept in mind in the planning of a system of bodily exercises for-school use, if the result is.to be a healthy, joyful, deedworthy generation.

School gymnastics, Dr. Schmidt insisted, should not be shaped according to the pattern of sport, that is aim toward extraordinary accomplishments of individuals, but should aim toward a mean, which might be reached by all. This hygienic character becomes most important with the youth after school age. Think of the sharp contrast between the unrestraint of school life and the restraint of the daily re-occurring sameness of professional work, this at the most critical period of the boys development. It is the period of greatest growth. The heart volume is practically doubled; the lungs experience vital changes; in brief, the foundation is laid in this period for efficiency in the broadest sense. In spite of school gymnastics, Dr. Schmidt claims, anemia and scoliosis are on the increase during the school age. Fitness for military service is decreasing. Many important questions are awaiting scientific decision. Which are the best hours in the day for school gymnastics; of what shall it consist in order to preserve mental alertness for the following period on the one hand and on the other arrest the constant increase of faulty carriage, increase lung capacity and girth of chest and stimulate growth in general? The hygienic demand for the so-called play afternoon to be devoted to exercise in the open is still awaiting scientific proof. All this Dr. Schmidt insists can not be accomplished in a sport laboratory, but must be ascertained by extensive observations in many communities, and no persons are better qualified to make these observations, than the school physician and the director of physical education. The speaker finally advocated the creation of a commission to work out methods of investigation, formulate proper questionaires and then finally work over the collected material with the aid of science*

Geh. Rat, Rolfs of Munich spoke of the advisability of a national Olympia. He declared himself of the opinion, that such a festival would carry with it far greater significance ,in the development of physical training for the German people, than the now existing international Olympiads.

In the international Olympiads the German games were absent and only one-sided games sueh as footraces etc. tvere in prominence.

Gymnastics, too, are shown in these games to ill-advantage, in as-mucli as only championship performances are internationally produced. Sport and gymnastics must work hand in hand. The striking contrasts, the speaker claimed, consist only of the extremes in both.

Prof. Nicolai of Berlin had for his topic: "Sport and heart/’ He agreed with Dr. Grober that the heart grew larger with increased

Digitized by C^ooQle
—411-----

muscular activity and also that an enlarged heart was not necessarily a diseased heart. He admitted that the limit was very easily overstepped and that enlargement of heart might then also mean impaired function. Professional bicycle riding must without doubt be considered the one sport which causes more damage to the heart than any other. To this may be added, however, the present fashion of record breaking in all sporting events.

Nicolai then laid down the following definite claims:

1.	Every exercise is excessive and harmful, from which the performer does not regain a normal pulse rate after 15 minutes.

2.	No one should over-ex;ert himself to such an extent as to make mouth breathing necessary (nasal abnormalities are here to be taken into consideration).

3.	Never should any exercise be carried to the extent of facial pallor (that is, show heart insufficiency).

In the discussion which followed an interesting fact was reported, namely, that motoring, practically a passive pleasure, resulted in albuminuria and also that blood had been found in the urin. This was said to be due to the constant jarring.

The sessions on the third day were presided over by Dr. F. A. Schmidt. Dr. Ivrieg spoke on “The relation of woman to gymnastics and sport.” He called attention to the fact that the last days prior to menstruation needed more precaution than the menstrual period itself. Such exercises as hanging, swinging and exercises on the giant stride should be avoided, because of the centrifugal force of the blood toward the abdomen created by these exercises.

He suggested, furthermore, the discarding of breathing exercises in connection with arm exercises, a step which Dr. Schmidt discouraged very emphatically. The latter considered the applied breathing a de-. cided acquisition in gymnastic exercises. The closing words of Dr. Schmidt at the conclusion of the congregs were:	May	the	deeds	be

commensurate with the hopes manifested here.

Horaal School of Physical Education.

Two years’ course in preparation for teachers of Physical Training. Large and modern gymnasium. Wellequipped laboratories of Anatomy, Biology, Zoology, and Physiology in connection with School of Medicine. Model School for Practice teaching. Best instructors and lecturers. Send for catalog and full information.

RUSSELL H. CONWELL, President.

TEW RLE UNIVERSITY Philadelphia, Pa*

Digitized by v^ooQle
Published Monthly,

Mind snd body. ^

Price, 91.00 perYetr. Foreign 91.26.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO. Itdl^aukee, Wlnoonnlaa.

^ Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, W in Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND C0M|HENTS.

—WE REGRET TO SAY that it has been impossible for Hr. Emanuel Haug of the DeWitt Clinton High School, New York to on-tinue his work as a department editor of Mind and Body. Increased work in the day and night schools of New York has caused Mr. Haug to resign from the post that he so well filled. Both he and our readers will, we feel certain, be satisfied with the gentleman who has consented to become his successor and edit the Department of Athletic News. It is MR. J. LEONARD MASON, formerly of the University of Pennsylvania and now director of the Gymnasium and Baths of Brookline, Mass. He will assume his duties next month. Our readers will please send to Mr. Mason athletic notes which are of more than local interest.

—WITH THE MARCH ISSUE Mind and Body enters its 20th year. Acceding to many expressed wishes the .publishers have decided to establish another department. This will be called “Playgrounds and Gymnasiums.” It is with some sense of gratification that we announce that MR. ERNST HERMANN, Supervisor of Playgrounds, West Newton, Mass, has decided to accept the position as editor of this department. Mr. Hermann's great experience in recreation work of all character will enable him to keep our readers posted on all the developments of playground, gymnasium and recreation work in America and Europe. Contributions of practical work should be sent directly to Mr. Hermann.

f

j—JAMES THORPE IS 4. ■ PROFESSIONAL. Bold headlines in theviolumns of all papers called attention to the discovery that the great American athlete, the !toost wonderful developed man on the team that represented the United States at the Olympic Games at Stockholm last summer was no amateur athlete. Here is Thorpe's letter admitting that he played summer base ball.

Department of the Interior,

United States Indian Service, v	Carlisle, Pa., Jan. 26, 1913.

James E. Sullivan, New York, N. Y.

Dear Sir:—When the interview with Mr. Clancy stating that I had played base ball on the Winston-Salem team was shown me I told Mr. Warner that it was not true, and, in *fact, I did not play on tha.t team. But so much has been said in the papers since then that I went to the school authorities this morning and tqld them just what there was in the stories.	>	*

Digitized by kjOOQle
— 413 —

I played base ball at Rocky Mti. and at Fayetteville, N. C., in the summer of 1909 and 1910 under my own name. On the same teams I played with were several college men from the North who were earning money by ball playing during their vacations and who were regarded as amateurs at home.

I did not play for the money there was in it because my property brings me in enough to live on, but because I liked to play ball. I was not very wise to the ways of the world and did not realize that this was wrong, and it would make me a professional in track sports, although I learned from the other players that it would be better for me not to let anytme know that I was playing, and for that reason I never told anyone at the school about it until to-day.

In the fall of 1911 I applied for readmission to this school and came back to continue my studies and takd part in the school sports, and, of course, I wanted to get on the Olympic team and take the trip to Stockholm. I had Mr. Warner send in my application for registering in the A. A. U. after I had answered the questions and signed it, and I received my card allowing me to compete in the winter meets and other track sports.

I never realized until now what a big mistake I made by keeping it a secret about my ball playing and I am sorry I did. I hope that I will be partly excused by the fact that I was simply an Indian schoolboy and did not know all about such things. In fact, I did not know that I was doing wrong because I was doing what I knew several other college men had done, except that they did not use their own names.

I have always liked sport and only played or ran races for the fun of the thing and never to earn money. I have received offers amounting to thousands of dollars since my victories last summer, but I have turned them all down because I did not care to make money from my athletic skill.

I am very sorry, Mr. Sullivan, to have it all spoiled in this way and I hope the Amateur Athletic Union and the people will not be too hard in judging me.

Yours truly,

(Signed) JAMES THORPE.

The rules of the Amateur Athletic Union state definitely that a person who accepts pay for playing ball, for teaching any kind of sport, a teacher of gymnastics, etc. thereby becomes a, prof essional and can not compete in games and sports played under the sanction of the A. A. U. Thorpe competed under these rules and he must abide by the decision of the recognized authorities.

But is the law which makes one a professional for what Thorpe did just, is it reasonable? Any one who reads Thorpe’s letter must be convinced that at heart he is an amateur. He played for the fun of it. Every one connected with competitive sports knows many persons, whose amateur standing is never questioned, who do not play, or run or jump for the fun of it, but because of the medal, the gold watch, the expenseless trip, etc. If, as the former president of the Athletic Research Society, Mr. Hetherington, said the ^spirit” which actuates a man to enter a competition should decide who is or who is not an amateur, who will question Thorpe’s standing? Why should a law stand which declares him professional because he played base ball during the summer? Had he past his summer as a waiter at a hotel, had he pushed a roller-chair at a summer resort, had he been a coal-heaver, had he attended the cattle in a cattle ship bound for Europe, in fact had he done any one of the dozens of other things

Digitized by Google
— 414 —

done regularly every summer by collegians he would not have sacrificed his amateur standing (at least not here in the United States). But because he, and many others, employ their skill and get paid for playing ball, for teaching swimming, for teaching boys how to run and jump in the playgrounds or how to row, etc. they are declared professionals. Why this distinction? They surely do not acquire more skill because they are paid for their services than they would if they did these things without pay. And is this mental or moral standard any better because they associate with professional waiters, bartenders, sailors, etc. than if they associate with other ball players, many of whom are collegians, with teachers, with the parents of the pupil they instruct?

Isn't it time that we abolish a law, brought to us from abroad, which is based on the assumption that because a man is paid for doing something he is not in the same class with a person who is not paid? Shall the receiving of money be the. criticism according to which a man's standing as an amateur shall be decided. Is a man a professional who in his free time teaches games or swimming, plays ball and gets paid for it, while another man (having a rich father) can devote his whole time to perfecting himself in any one particular sport and who, because he does not get paid for playing, is proclaimed an amateur? If the “spirit” is to decide, which of the two is the professional?

Is a law which in European countries may be regarded as correct, and which recognizes classes, i. e. those who must work with their hands for a living, and those who must not, is such a law a good one for the enormously expanding athletic life of our country? We are not afraid of the answer when the subject is once well understood. It never would make a professional of James Thorpe.

—NEWARK is hustling to make the next convention a great success. Its Physical Education Society has sent to all members of the national association a sheet of handsome gummed seals accompanied by the following letter:

“The Newark Physical Training1 Society tqkes great pleasure in sending you a few of the letter seals now being used to advertise the annual convention of the American Physical Training Association which is to be held in Newark next March from the twenty-sixth to the twenty-ninth inclusive. Please help attract public attention to the convention by making use of the seals.

The local society extends to you a cordial invitation to be present at the coming convention, promising you a unique program with special features for observation. We are making every effort to have this meeting of the physical educators of the United States and Canada mark an era of greater progress than has ever before been made m our chosen field. Will you help by being present?”

Yours very truly,

RANDALL D. WARDEN, President.

---1—*--

w ASK POE A SAMPLE COPY for youreelf or for your friend*.

Digitized by Tooele
— 415 —

Program of the Convention of the American Physical Education Association, March 26 to 28, 1913, Newark, 9. J.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 26th—9 A. M. to 3 P.M.

The public schools and playgrounds of the city of Newark will receive visitors. A schedule with addresses of schools will be provided.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 26th—8:30 P. M.

Central Commercial and Manual Training High Schools. General Meeting:

1.	Address of Welcome by the Mayor of Newark, Jacob Haus-sling.

2. Address of Welcome by the City Superintendent of Schools, Dr. Addison B. Poland.

3.	Address—Subject and Speaker to be announced.

4.	Presidential Address—R. Tait McKenzie, M. D.

5.	Dance and Reception.

THURSDAY, MARCH 27th—9 A. M.

The Public School Physical Training Society, at the Central Commercial and Manual Training High School.

Delegates who do not wish to attend the meeting of the Public School Physical Training Society will be taken in groups to schools to see classroom work in gymnastics, the posture test and methods of supervision.

THURSDAY, MARCH 27th—12 noon.

Luncheon at the Washington Restaurant (subject to change).

Brief speeches (two minutes, by official delegates from societies and sections).

THURSDAY, MARCH 27th—1:30 P. M.

Meeting of the Therapeutic Section Central Commercial and Manual Training High School.

Delegates who do not wish to attend the meeting of the Therapeutic Section will be taken in groups to visit schools,—classes for - defectives, deaf and dumb, ungraded schools, roof playgrounds, organized mass play in gymnasiums, open air, organized recesses, assembly drills, floordrills.

THE OLYMPfC GAMES IN STOCKHOLM.

By FRODE SADOLIK, M. D. Translated by Carl L. Schrader.

„01ympiska Spelen” in Stockholm are now a link in the chain of the non-genuine Olympiads. The genuine Olympiads are held jin Athens. We may justly consider all the modern Olympic Games as non-genuine, fcince they oannot claim to be the heirs of the olfl. The original Olympic Games were a sort of feast of judgment for'every new generation of the Helenic youth. They were the festive proof and ex-

Digitized by v^,ooQle
— 416 —

hibition of the results -of a? uniform and balanced education as carried on in the various provinces of Greece. The Greeks elected only few competitive exercises, most prominent among them being the running. These exercises were thought to be best fitted to manifest the bodily perfection, which, after all, was then the aim of training. Victory in those games of old was looked upon by the Athenians as the expression of bodily perfection and in the victor they saw the ideal of the youth capable of bearing and handling the armors of war.

The old Olympiads were then as they are now, both festival and battle, but they were at the same time a reviewing of-the youth, the physical condition of which was highly valued by the nation as its greatest asset.

What, compared with this is the significance, when a great Australian or an American with stooped shoulders or—if we should be lucky—a Dane, jumps higher than all others, being as he is peculiarly gifted for this performance by nature, and in addition has practiced only this one sport? It certainly has no relation to the physical status of the people it represents.

The early Norsemen had an ideal of manhood like that of the Greeks, which arrived above all else toward a complete education of the boys. Included in this ideal of mankind were experience in the handling of weapons as well as forms of sport. Not a single performance, but a complete development was the aim. There are many legends which1 give evidence that beauty of stature and carriage occupied a prominent place. Here again it was bodily perfection which was the goal in the many competitive games. The North more than most other countries is heir to sport, not, however, of the Olympiad type. It is a question whether Sweden, which manifested its athletic prowess so gallantly at these Olympic Games acted wisely in building the stadium and carrying on the Olympic Games, thereby merely imitating the South. National traditions were certainly not thereby observed, nor were they given a new impetus. A different and less significant motive was followed, an international fashion, a fashion which already seems to have reached its zenith. This because these gigantic meets, like the world's fairs give no result adequate to the great preparations involved. It is an unalterable fact, that there are limitious in time and space for what man may observe, grasp and acquire, and when these limitations are overstepped, then the grandeur in number or extent is not only no longer augmented, but it is decreased. We do not get a true comparison between the numerous and apparent external values and the real intimate value which is gained. The impressions become superficial, less coiu^retten^iv^. Still another danger lurks in such gigantic undertakings. When we must attract 25,000 people, most of whom have never indulged in any form of sport, then there is great temptation to cater to the taste of these people, even though their taste be bad. We then lekn very closely toward the Circus Maximus of the old Borne; an arena with a conglamorate of exciting performances, and in the stands a lazy mass seeking this performance only to satisfy a craving and follow fashion.

These exaggerated large meets, especially thosfc of international

Digitized by C^ooQle

/

/

f
— 417 —

character carry with them the danger that the spectator attends lesp because of the sport itself, but more because of the general intensity ahd excitement which prevails at such functions. Thus the incline is constructed down which we descend toward horse races, wheel races and the games of hazard. The Olympic Games in Stockholm were above this danger. This because of the impressive and well-planned dedicatory exercises which were pregnant with sentiment of the dominant sense of appreciation the Swede holds for manly sport and culture.

The quiet, but steady influence which the gymnastics of Ling has exercised upon the Swedish people was everywhere in evidence. Finally it was the pride of national achievement of the Kingdom which gave to the days of friendly combat a peculiar fire and enthusiasm, a fire which was more than merely a straw fire kindled by .momentary emotion. The stadium with its international * sensation and its mass of spectators can hardly be conceived as the birthplace of sport in Sweden. Sport will be fostered in the future like in the past in the many earnest and scattered organizations of sport. A city like Stockholm can afford to retain such a structure for future festival performances and games. For gymnastic performances the stadium - is less suited because of the great distance between spectator and performer. Large groups, such as the Swedes and Danes had detailed, can, however, kindle a fire of enthusiasm at all times. What a marvelous mass effect it was! Such an impression can only be possible when the mass is composed of excellent individual material. These large delegations were only guests at the games. They, nevertheless, are the ones who came nearer to the Greek ideal, because they practice forms of bodily exercise which aim toward manhood as a whole, instead of one sided accomplishment!

In the size of these teams may be found the best expression of the idea that the entire youth shall partake in order that the whole nation may be raised to a high level. That was the powerful motive of the s^ortioving people of old, and it can become a ten-fold stronger motive for the present where the people are no longer divided into free men and slaves.

A Further Report on Athletics end Health in the Navy.

In his annual report as chief of the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery to the Secretary of the Navy for the fiscal year 1912, which has just been issued, the Surgeon-General has collected the statistics of the subsequent health of 580 non-athletic midshipmen who were in the Naval Academy during the twenty years from 1892 to 1911 inclusive. These statistics were gathered for the purpose of comparison with a corresponding set secured last year with regard to the subsequent health of 622 men who had represented the Naval Academy in the crew, on the football team and in other forms of strenuous athletic contest for the same period. We reviewed the report of the Surgeon-General last year, and our comment that it was a severe ar-

Digitized by CjOOQle
418

raignment of the .effect of strenuous athletics in our schools and universities aroused considerable discussion in school and athletic circles. Owing to the fact that he is able to obtain definite data as to the subsequent health of the great majority of the naval cadets, the Surgeon-General of the Navy is probably in a better position to come to a correct conclusion in the matter than any one else who has so far studied the subject.

The commonly accepted opinion has been that athletics make for the health of the student body. In recent years comparisons have been made more than once, especially by university directors of athletics, between the health* of graduates who as students had worn the university “letter” on their sweaters as a reward for having been successful , in some intercollegiate contest, and the health of those students who had not taken part in athletics to the same extent. It is almost needless to say that in these comparisons the subsequent health of the first group proved much better; but there are many sources of error in any such comparison. The second group is much larger, and those in the first group are what insurance actuaries call “selected lives.” They are those who have fine physical constitutions, who have no physical defect, either congenital or acquired, and whose expectancy of life is much longer and of health much better. Among those who did not take part in competitive athletics at the universities are to he found many natural weaklings, many whq have vicious habits of various kinds and many whose general habits of life, especially afc regards air and exercise, are not conducive to good health. A comparison between the same two groups at the Naval Academy, however, is much fairer; indeed, scarcely any objection can be urged against it. Every one of the cadets has an excellent physical constitution to begin with and no defect of any importance, or his application would be rejected.

Any comparison between the two groups in this matter should of course result in favor of the athletes, for they are not only picked men, but as the Surgeon-General says, twice selected picked men. They are the men who, it would reasonably be supposed, would be best able to resist the real effects of overtraining and overstraining and who should, other conditions being equal, possess a comparatively greater expectation of health and longevity. After a careful collation of the data, however, this has not proved to be the case. It has been found that from those diseases to which athletics have a possible or probable causative’relation there has been but one death among non-athletes as compared with six for the athletic group. Of the men still in the service whose records show abnormal physieial conditions, 187 are nonathletes as against 198 athletes.

As noted in the previous report, probably the most striking arraignment of the ill effects of strenuous competitive athletics is to be found in the degenerative diseases of the heart, arteries and kidneys which in recent years in spite of all our advance in sanitation hav^e greatly increased, though the contagious diseases have been reduced in a remarkable way. The Surgeon-General says:

“The following conditions or disabilities show an excess amount-
— 419 —

ing to 50 per cent, or more among the athletes: arteriosclerosis, valvular, disease of the heart, cardiac irregularity, cardiac dilatation, cardiac . hypertrophy, gastric disturbances, albuminuria, general poor health, obesity and tuberculosis, and various traumatic lesions as well. It seems reasonable to ‘suppose that the disabilities among the athletic class are largely due to spectacular athleticism and would not have been acquired had . the overstraining and overtraining not been indulged in*”

With these data before them it will be rather difficult for university faculties to justify the tolerance and encouragement which they now give to intercollegiate contests and, the training for them. They hurt scholarship, which has always been admitted, but there seems no room for doubt that they also hurt health. Their alleged hygienic value was the chief* excuse for their being.—Ed. Journ. Am. Med. Assoc. Jan. 11, 1913.	'

SWIMMING INSTRUCTION.

By LENA HOERNIG, M. D., Kansas City, Mo.

It is with much interest that I have been following the articles on swimming in the last issues of “Mind and Body.” So just a few words more. The best stroke for beginners is the one that has the following requisites: 1) it must adapt itself to mass instruction in land drill. 2) It must exercise alike both sides of the body. 3) It must have its main propelling force with the large muscle groups of the lower extremities. 4) It must be one that will prove valuable in endurance swimming. The breast stroke contains these requisites.

With the awakening of general interest in swimming in the United States the problem to be met is mass instruction, especially of children. The methods that have been successful in European schools are the ones, without doubt, best adapted to American needs. The method of teaching the breast stroke differs but slightly with various teachers.. The emphasis is to be laid on a strong leg action followed by a long rest period in which the body glides forward in the water. Any swimming stroke that offers a good rest period will be valuable in long distance swimming.

If four counts are given to the breast stroke the pupil understands the movements more readily. In gymnastic exercises one count is usually given to each movement. The kick of the breast stroke will then be analyzed as follows:

Starting position: Body prone, legs extended, arms extended in line of direction.

Count 1. Legs rest. Arms move outward.

Count 2. Knees are bent and thighs rotated outward. Elbows are bent, close to body.

Count 3. Knees extended. Elbows are extended and arms, move forward in line of direction.

Count 4. Legs are adducted, arms rest.

During the last few summers great interest has been awakened jh

Digitized by v^.ooQle
— 420 —

our city in the side stroke as taught by Mr. P. P. Cavill. Mr. Cavill is a member of the well known Australian family of swimmers, and a brother of Dick Cavill. Mr. CavilFs father introduced the scissors side stroke, and it was perfected by the sons. This stroke has so many points of excellence that no swimmer onght to be without the ability to Use it. It affords'a good means to progress in the art of swimming after the breast stroke has been well learned. The scissors leg stroke differs from the leg work of the breast stroke. In the latter the thighs are rotated, abducted, and adducted, in the former there

Starting position: Body on right side, lower extremities extended. Right arm extended in line of direction, left arm at side parallel to thighs, chest high, head low and turned to left. Lumbar spine straight and rigid.

Count 1. The left or upper leg is brought forward from the hip joint (flexed), knee rigid. The right or under leg is moved backward from the hip joint (extended), knee bent to about 90°. Both ankles are flexed. The arms are brought toward each other; the hands pass each other close to the body, and are turned to offer the most or least resistance to the water as required.

Fig. 2. Position preparatory to the kick (first count).

Count 2. The lower limbs are brought together forcibly to starting position, ankles extended. The arms return to starting position.

Count 3. The body glides forward in starting position.

In the side stroke the head is low in the water, not necessarily submerged. The arms move under the water. The emphasis Mr. Cavill lays upon the position of the lumbar spine, the movement from the Kip j6ints, the rigidity of the left knee, and the flexion and extension of the ankles adds much to the beauty and power of this sttoke. The breast stroke well done appears graceful and easy, but the Cavill’ side stroke even more so, because of the long narrow line in gliding,, and the elimination to a greater extent of sharp angles. From experience and observation I believe it to be a close rival with the breast stroke in long distance swimming. The disadvantage of the

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 421 —

stroke is that it is usually practiced only on the right side, and long continue4 one sided practice is detrimental even to the adult body, ^ith considerable practice, however, the stroke can be learned on the left side with equal skill and perfection. So much pleasure is derived from the ability to do the stroke well on both sides, that it is well worth while for every swimmer to acquire this method. The side stroke has been advocated as a beginner’s stroke. It lacks two of the above mentioned requisites, however. It does not adapt itself well to land drijl, and before it can be used both on right and left sides much more time and patience is required than in learning the simple movements of the breast stroke.

NOMENCLATURE OF APPARATUS EXERCISES.

Compiled by E^IIL RATH, Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind. ACTIVITIES PECULIAR TO CERTAIN APPARATUS.

(Concluded.)

The circles. (Umschwuenge.)

The circles on the horizontal bar are generally named according to the part of the body forming the pivot for the circle. They will be described as beginning from a definite position above the bar necessary for the ensuing circle. The parts not active are to be kept in the fundamental position as much as the exercise permits. This should be notably observed of the head and chest.

The single knee-circle backward. (Knieumschwung.) From a seat on thigh, upper grip, the entire body is forcibly thrown back-upward, so that the bar strikes the knee-socket. The pendant leg, which is perfectly rigid, is simultaneously swung in the same direction. The force with which the knee-socket strikes the bar changes the direction of the swing to downward, to which that x>f the leg is added, and the body describes a circle about the bar. The head, trunk and leg are kept in a straight line during the circling. It is performed between (inner) and outside of (outer) the hands.

The double knee-circle backward. It is performed with both legs between and outside of the hands and resembles the single knee-circle in execution. The body must be forcibly tossed backward to acquire sufficient centrifugal force for the circle.

The single knee-circle forward. It starts from the same position as the backward circle, but with under grip. A raising movement which brings the knee-socket to the bar precedes the vigorous forward and downward swing of the trunk aided by the swing of -the pendant leg. In both circles (forward and backward) there should be a tendency to swing in as large a circle as possible; i. e. an effort to get away from the bar.

The double knee-circle forward will need no explanation. TJie raising movement and the forward swung are performed in the two positions, i. e. with both legs between or outside of arms.

The seat circles. (Sitzumschwung.) They begin from the balance support (legs between or outside of knees) and are performed backward with upper and forward with under grip. In execution t}iey closely

Digitized by v^.ooQle
— 422 —

resemble the knee circles. In both the forward and backward circle the hips are drawn backward beyond the arms before starting. The arms should be kept straight and the hips well bent, so 'that the legs do not touch the bar. The body is vigorously swung in the direction indicated. As it completes the circle the hands quickly regrasp to maintain a secure support and prepare for an additional circle if necessary.

The crotch-circles. (Muehlenumschwung.) They aTe executed forward (under grip,) backward (upper grip,) and sideward (outer grip) and begin from a position on the bar in which the chest is well arched, the head held high, the extended legs astride with feet an ordinary stride's length apart, and the bar passing under the crotch. The body is forcibly swung in the direction indicated.	,	,.

The forward and backward circle is easiest if preceded *by a slight raising of the body so that the bar will pass under the forward thigh. The position of the body does not change during circling.

Toe-circle. (Ristumschwung.) From a support frontways with under grip the body is swung backward and upward, bringing th,e upper part of the instep of both feet between the hands against the bar. The knees are slightly bent and forward above the bar. The body encircles the bar in this position, grasping the bar with the toes. In the' backward circle the feet are generally outside of the hands (straddle) with knees extended. The toe-circle forward (upper grip) is usually performed with the feet between the hands. These circles are very difficult.

The heel-circle. (Fersenumschwung.) From a support rearways with under grip raise the knees upward and bring the heels against the bar, so that the bar passes just above them. The body then encircles the bar in this position. It is generally qnly performed forward.

The foot-circle. (Sohlenumschwung.) This exercise is similar to the toe-circle, but the bar passes under the sole of the foot, and the knees are always extended. There are four popular forms of execution: backward with upper grip with the extended closed legs between or the extended straddled legs outside of the hands; forward with under grip and similar positions of the legs.

The hip-circle. (Felgumschwung.) Backward. From a support frontways, upper grip, swing the extended body backward into the free support. As it strikes the bar upon the hips the .circle around the bar follows. With the descending movement upon the bar, the trunk is dropped backward and the feet swing forward assisting the circling. It should be performed with straight hips, though they are usually bent in beginners.

The free-hip-circle backward resembles the previous exercise, but the hips do not touch the bar. The body is kept arched as it circles the bar. Just at completion of the circle the hands regrasp and a snap from head and chest throws the body into a free support prepared for another circle.

The hip-circle forward. It is performed from the support frontways with upper, ihixed and under grip, and is easiest executed by slightly raising the body so that the bar crosses in front of about the center

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 423 —

of the thighs. From here the body, with hips slightly bent, swings forward, encircles the bar, and rises on the other side 'mainly upon the hips. Just at completion of the circle the hands .regrasp by reaching as far as possible over the bar. When the circle has been learned it may easily be continued by pivoting about the bar upon the hips.

Giant-circle. (Riesenf elgumschwung.) From a support frontways^ upper grip, swing the straight body vigorously backward and upward into* the handstand for a preliminary starting position. lYom this position, the arms, trunk, hips and legs fully extended, the body encircles the bar, beginning toward the side of the support. A vigorous snap brings the body beyond the horizontal and again into the handstand. This is termed the giant-circle backward (or giant-circle with upper grip):	The

giant-circle forward is similarly performed, but in the opposite direction and with under grip, the snap occurring on the other side of the bar.

THE CLIMBING POLES (ROPES).

It is to be noted that a climbing movement upward, the body moving as a unit, is always toward the ceiling, and downward toward the floor, whether the body is in the inverted position or not. Many of the activities common to the hang and support are, of course, also possible on the poles. The following are peculiar to it:

The climbing position left. The pole is grasped with an outer grip, about head high or higher, the right (or left) hand uppermost.. The right shin is placed against the near side of the pole in such a manner that the pole passes on the inside of the almost horizontal knee on a line continuous with the posterior surface of the lower leg, and on the outside of the foot at about its middle. Knee and foot are on opposite sides. This position clenches the pole. The left leg is placed around the far side of the pole so that it passes along the outside of the heel and the inside of the knee. This position also clenches the pole. The legs are pressed firmly together so that the pole will be doubly clenched,

i.	e. by the left and right leg. The trunk does not touch the pole. The arms may be bent or straight, preferably bent. Right is the reverse of this position.

It may be assumed on one (left or right) of the double poles with the following grips:

1.	Outer grip on both poles.

2.	Outer grip on the opposite pole from the climbing position.

Furthermore, it may also be assumed in the inverted position in a

similar manner on a single of on one of the double poles/

Climbing upward and downward in the ordinary or inverted position is performed with:

1.	A follow-grasp.

2.	An over-grasp.

3.	A simultaneous grasp.

The follow-grasp. The uppermost hand grasps as high as possible and the one beneath follows, bringing the hands again close together and in the same relation to each other. The body is then drawn upward by raising the knees and bending the arms.	:>

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 424 —

The over-grasp. The hand beneath begins and grasps above the one uppermost. The body follows and the movement is repeated.

The simultaneous grasp. Both hands move simultaneously upward, the body is raised as before and the movement repeated.

These movements are reversed in the downward climbing. The body may also descend in the inverted climbing position on the rope, without the use of the hand; i. e. arms in the side position.

Climb-traveling. It consists of climbing upward or downward on a number of poles about three feet apart. After grasping upward (or downward) on the neighboring pole with one hand the leg hold is transferred to the grasped pole with the knees well raised and the other hand follows. This is continued. When moving downward the knees are not raised so high.

A change of the climbing position is performed by reversing the leg hold on the pole or rope, either while in the hang or by an intermediate jump.

On the double poles the following positions of the legs may also be assumed:

1.	Climbing position with the knees inside, the feet outside, and the shins against the poles.

2.	A climbing position with the knees outside, the feet inside, and the shins against the poles.

Upward and downward climbing with the various grips is practiced in these positions on the poles.

Iln the free hand-hang on the single or double poles or ropes traveling and hand-jumping is practiced as described under handspring-ing, activities common to hang and support.

THp GIANT STRIDE. (CIRCLE SPYING.)

On the circle swing a number of exercises performed in ordinary running and jumping may be executed with some form of grip on the ladder or rope. They may begin from two formations:

1.	The flank circle formation ivith left or right side toward the center. Jn tjiis formation the inner hand usually grasps one of the higher rounds with upper grip and the outer hand the next (or second, or third) round below with undergrip. The inner arm may also assume an upper arm or an elbow hahg.

2.	The front circle formation in which the grip may consist of an upper grip on any designated round, or an outer grip on the ropes (if the circle swing consists of ladders).

From the flank circle formation:	Running (forward or backward)

with various exercises of the legs during the run (see Free Exercises). The rope must be kept taunt by trying to run somewhat outward from the circle. When sufficient speed has been acquired the feet may be kept off the .floor by assuming various positions of the legs, producing a period of flight.

Whole turns outward and inward around the length axis are also practiced during the run. The run continues immediately upon completing the turn.

Vaulting over a rope (from the forward run). The participants

Digitized by t^ooQle
— 425 —

form directly in front of the rope stretched across the circle from standards which are placed at safe distances and then start running one after the other, leaping over the rope by taking off with one foot and pulling up on the ladder (or ropes). Considerable height may be vaulted in this manner. This may also be performed on the rings, poles, or ropes from a straight run instead of a circle run.

The short swing with a double touch-off may also be executed on this apparatus either as a fore- and backswing, or as a circle swing of the legs. The latter may also be done during flight, i. e. without touching the floor with the feet. A whole turn outward and inward may be added to these short swings.

From the front circle formation:	The running exercises (see Free

Exercises), the period of flight with leg positions, the short circle swing, and the whole turns outward and inward may be performed from this formation.

The Bell. An outer grip on the ropes of two neighboring ladders, or ropes is assumed (or upper grip on a high round), and after a vigorous run to one side, the legs are raised backward extending the entire body. Some one must give the signal upon which to raise the legs. Leg positions may be added during the flight.

THE BALANCE-BOARDS AND LADDERS.

On the balance-boards the exercises under “Free Exercises in Walking” which are adaptable as balancing exercises are to be performed. They will not need to be described again. Likewise the balancing exercises under “Free Exercises in Standing.”

The terms “ascend” and “descend” are used to bring the body into some definite stand upon the board and from it on to the floor. The common forms are:

To ascend with a common step.

To ascend with a closing step; to ascend with a jump; descend in n, similar manner. Exercises are begun from either a side or a cross stand.

On the oblique and vertical ladder the same forms of “ascending” -and “descending” are used, by stepping from round to round, with .grips either upon the rounds or beams. On the oblique ladder they are performed on the upper and lower side of the ladder. Ascending in the squat stand may also be mentioned.

Where the gymnasium ladder, (ladder with center board*) is present, many valuable activities described under “Free Exercises of the Second Order,” in lying and sitting, may be repeated.

It is needless to say that a great number of the activities described under various headings are also performable on the ladder.

In compiling this nomenclature, particularly the terminology of the apparatus exercises, it was intended to offer a basis for constructive work, very little having been done so far along this line. The terms employed are chiefly literal translations of the German names of exercises, and where this could not be fluently used another word

* See Mind and Body, October and November, 1912.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 426 —

describing as near as possible the chief characteristic of the exercise was substituted. It was found rather difficult to successfully anglicize a branch of gymnastics which is so distinctly German and peculiar as the apparatus exercises.

Suggestions from whatsoever source are welcome and will receive consideration. It is hoped that teachers of physical training, particularly those engaged with men’s classes, will interest themselves in the construction of a suitable nomenclature for apparatus work.

EXTRACTS FROM MEDICAL JOURNALS AND PHYSIOLOGIC AND HYGIENIC NOTES OF INTEREST

By DM. FEED. KEOGH, M. D.

v	(Continued.)

—Some New Evidence on the Tobacco Question.—The consideration of tobacco and its dangers has heretofore been largely based on the amount of nieotin contained in the smoke. The list of the alleged toxic components is not exhausted, however, with the mention of the familiar volatile alkaloid. Other known products of the combustion of the tobacco remain to share a possible responsibility for any untoward symptoms which may be charged to smoking.

So far the burden of the blame for the ill effects of smoking would appear to rest on nieotin. This being admitted, the injury possible from tobacco would be to a large extent in proportion to the susceptibility of the individual, the amount of nieotin in the smoke from the particular ■ variety of tobacco, the method and extent of indulgence and the practice of inhaling the smoke.

Investigations made by the London Lancet would indicate that the ordinary cheap cigarette contains the least nieotin in the smoke and the pipe the most, the cigar occupying an intermediate position with regard to the amount of nieotin contained. Some reformers, notably Miss Lucy Page Gaston, founder and secretary of the Anti-cigarette League, have maintained that the cigarette habit presented peculiar and distinctive features not to be accounted for on the' theory that the cigarette was merely a small and mild cigar. If the observations from which this deduction is drawn are correct, they throw doubt on the theory that nieotin is the most harmful factor in tobacco smoke,, and furnish a problem for scientific investigation, just as clinical observations of disease not explained by previous scientific theories demand investigation by laboratory workers.

Further investigations by the Lancet indicate that the most injurious forms of smoking are not those in which the narcotic nieotin prevails but those in which there is a larger proportion of the irritant aldehyds, particularly the aldehyd furfural, a substance to which many attribute the injurious effects of cheap liquors and which is commonly distinctive of the smoke from the cheap Virginia cigarette. The Lancet calls attention to the fact that furfural is about fifty times as poisonous as ordinary alcohol and concludes that there is a probability that the least harmful tobacco will turn out to be that which yields a mini-

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 427 —

mum of furfural and other aldehyds in the smoke. Although the a-mount of nicotin present in the cheaper grades of cigarettes is practically negligible, the amount of furfural appears to be sufficient in itself to account for the bad effects attributed to cigarette-smoking. The smoke of a single Virginia cigarette, according to the Lancet experiments, may contain as much furfural as is present in 2 ounces of whisky. It would be premature, especially since furfural is practically absent from the smoke of Turkish cigarettes, to assert now that this substance is accountable for all of the ill effects of excessive cigarettesmoking, but it is at least significant that it is always present in considerable proportions in the smoke of the cheap and popular Virginia cigarette, of which carbon monoxid is another poisonous constituent.

The use of tobacco in its various forms is so general that the subject is of almost universal interest. The smoker may not be willing to give up his indulgence, while educators and all who have anything to do with the young, whether by example or by precept, will appreciate scientific facts with which to back up wise deductions from experience.—Journal A. M. A. Nov. 16, 1912.

—Professor von Pirquet on Diseases of Childhood in School.—The well-known specialist for diseases of children recently read before the Society for Hygiene of the Schools an interesting paper dealing with the diseases of school children. He finds that school diseases can be classified under one of the following heads: infectuous diseases, disturbances of development of the body and degeneration. The surroundings are frequently responsibl for disturbance of development. Well-fed children grow more rapidly and better than underfed children. Instruction in hygienic principles is of the utmost importance. The chief object of the Society for Hygiene of the School must be to make public the results of the united experiences of parents, teachers and school physicians in order that a healthy and strong generation of children may grow up to be healthy citizens.—From a Vienna Letter to the Journal of the Am. Med. Assoc. Dec. 14, 1912.

—Fresh Air Cures in Public Parks.—Aron pleads to have a sheltered part of public parks set apart for convalescents and chronically 6ick persons, where they can spend the day in comfortable reclining chairs. The expense of the chairs would be slight, while the advantages for convalescents would be incalulable.—Dr. E. Aron, Berliner Klinische Wochenschrift, Oct. 14, 1912.

—The following abstract is taken from a paper read at the meeting of the Pennsylvania State Medical Association, Sept. 1912, by Dr. Deforest P. Willard, Philadelphia, on “The Treatment of Flat-Foot: A Plea Against the Missuse of the Insole.”

About one-fourth of the deformities of the body are due to weakness of the tarsal arch. For the support of the tarsal arch we have to depend on the sling-like action of the muscles of the leg, the principal of which are the tibials on the inner side and the ’peroneals on the outer side. Any weakness of the inner muscles or over-action of the

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 428 —

outer muscles will cause the foot to evert when the body weight is placed on it, thus throwing a strain on the plantar fascia and the ligaments of the tarsal joints; these gradually give way and the normal arch diappears. In the treatment, especially of the pronated type, there are four indications which must be complied with, namely, to strengthen the weakened muscles, to allow the foot to assume its normal position, to relieve the strain on these muscles by throwing the line of weight-bearing to the outside of the foot, and to support the arch until the muscles are ready to take up their full work. To accomplish this we may use muscular exercises to strengthen the weakened muscles and to stretch the contracted ones, massage and passive motion, hot-air treatment, hot and cold water douches. The second essential is a proper shoe to give support to the foot. The use of arch-supports is the commonest form of treatment and the easiest to prescribe, while at the same , time it does the most harm. At the best such a plate will be only a temporary support, to the arch and in no way disposes of the causative factors of the condition.

—How to Keep Sick.—“Education by Negation” is the method employed by the Chicago Health Department in its “Advice as to How to Keep Sick.” The rules follow:

Keep the windows closed all the time, especially when you sleep— fresh air would keep you healthy.

Keep the sunshine out of your home—germs don’t like sunshine.

Never take a deep breath—that would give your lungs some needed exercise, and, besides, you might rip a button off your vest.

Don’t disturb the flies—you’ll miss a lot of filth if you do.

Never take a bath—soap and water are enemies of disease.

Keep a dirty house—dirt and disease go hand in hand.

What’s the use of being healthy anyway?

—Dr. E. L. Melius, Baltimore, has an interesting articles in the Am. Journ. of Anatomy, Phila., Nov. 15, 1912 on The Development of Cerebral Cortex.—It is the belief of Melius that all mental development has an anatomic basis. In a comparative study of the cellular structure of the so-called “Broca’s area” in the brains of three individuals there was found a very apprepiable difference in the thickness of the cortical layers in favor of the left hemisphere. It was almost impossible to say just where this difference lies. The counting of cells in a cortical area is extremely difficult, although by no means impossible. In many instances the count varies so considerably in contiguous areas of the same convolution, due sometimes to the presence of blood-vessels and the doubtful nature of many of the cells, that it is difficult to arrive at satisfactory conclusions. As a rule, however, it appears that the deeper cortex has the greater number of cells. One would naturally suppose that a cortex increased in depth by increased functional activity would be due either to increase in the volume of the cells or separation of the cells by reason of an increase in the outgrowing or ingrowing processes, or both together. Prom careful and prolonged study of the motor area in the human cortex Melius is

Digitized by Google
— 429 —

convinced that there are great variations in different individuals in the development of the largest elements, the so-called Betz cells.

—Effects of Cold Air on Blood-Pressures of Children.—The blood-pressure in children having tuberculosis is persistently low, as has been found to be the case in adults. When a patient is transferred to the open air there is a gradual increase of blood-pressure within one or two hours. If the patient is kept constantly in the open air the pressure is raised to well within the normal limits and sustained at that point as long as the patient remains in the open air. The more advanced the case, the lower the pressure indoors, and the higher the rise when put in the open air. After several days in the open air the blood-pressure does not fall as much when placed in ward as it did previous.to outdoor treatment.—Dr. B. R. Hoobler, New York, in Am. Journ. of Diseases of Children, Chicago, Nov. 12, IV. No. 5.

—Science an Iconoclast.—We recently commented on the part imagination has played in scientific advancement. Instances were quoted in which the metaphors of early writers have become established as facts by science. Sometimes the foreshadowing may seem almost prophetic; no doubt it is often mere accident. Science hews to the line no matter where the chips may fall. Often an idol of the earlier epochs of thought is shattered. Thus we sought to avoid “colds” by avoiding all contact with cool fresh air. Now, he who seeks to avoid infection of the respiratory tract wears light clothing and breathes air fresh from the open. A generation ago calomel was given to stir up the liver and increase the flow of bile. Now pharmacologists agree that whatever virtues calomel may possess it is not a cholagogue. When we were boys candy and sweets were withheld from us as things productive of many serious derangements. Now pediatricians allow plenty of sweets as an essential part of the diet for children. Not long ago we were taught to avoid drinking water with meals, as the excess of fluid diluted the digestive juices and hindered digestion. Now it > seems to have been demonstrated that water taken with meals aids digestion and facilitates absorption. And so it goes.—Journ. A. M. A.

—Ambition is^ a dynamic force which, coupled with energy and clean living, will bring success to any man.

—No. subject in current medical literature received as much favorable comment during the past summer as prophylactic immunization with typhoid vaccine. The practical application of this method for preventing the development of typhoid fever in exposed individuals is now generally recognized. Just how long such an immunity will last has not been definitely determined, but careful observations indicate it will give protection against typhoid infection for at least one year where a complete course of three inoculations with the regular dose of killed organisms at from seven to ten-day intervals is given. In all probability the immunity will last considerably longer.—The Bacterial Therapist.

Digitized by LaOOQLe
— 430 —

I

—Advanced Kequirements in Pennsylvania.—Dr. J. M. Baldy, president of the Bureau of Medical Education and Licensure of Pennsylvania, reports that at a meeting held at Harrisburg, Nov. 1 ,1912, .it was voted that after Jan. 1, 1914, the bureau would require for admission to medical colleges, in addition to a standard four-year high school course or its equivalent, not less than one year of college credits in chemistry, biology, physics and a modern language other than English, or the equivalent thereof as determined by the Bureau of Professional Education; and for examination for license to practice medicine in the state of Pennsylvania, a year of service as intern in an approved hospital, or a year of approved postgraduate instruction, and that the necessary amendments to the medical practice act be secured at the coming session of the legislature. If this legislation is secured Pennsylvania will be the first to require that every applicant for a license to practice medicine within its borders must have held an internship in a hospital. Pennsylvania, therefore, has the opportunity to be the first state to demand this most desirable qualification for licensure.—Journ. A. M. A.

—Overwork as a Cause of Neurasthenia.—Talking of the causes of neurasthenia. Dr. Savill says:	“The	firjst	of	these	is	fatigue or

overwork, and that you are no doubt familiar with in every-day practice. Just as a faradic battery will become weaker and weaker if it is used and will be restored by rest and warmth; so will the nervous system become weaker and weaker if it is overworked, that is, if there is prolonged forced functioning.”—Thomas D. Savill in Clin. Journ.

—Harmful Dusts.—Another curious effect of dust has been observed in a form of temporary deafness among the workers in jute, from which twine and bags are made. The fine dust of the jute fiber, mingled with the natural “wax” of the ears, packs into hard cakes against the tympanum.—W. G. Thompson in Journ. Maine Med Assn.

—Jails Versus Schools.—A recent issue of Public Health, the bulletin of the Michigan State Board of Health, contains a striking example of the ridiculous limitations often placed on public health work. The board condemned the Ingham county jail because some cells were below the ground-level and not in sanitary condition. The county was compelled to provide a place for its prisoners that was sanitary. In District 6, Lansing Township, Ingham County, there is a schoolhouse which has a basement room lighted and ventilated by five small windows. Into this room were crowded fifty-five small children. The conditions as to light and ventilation were as bad in the schoolroom as in the jail cell. Yet the State Board of Health has no power to order the school board to provide sanitary schoolrooms, nor, apparently, has any other'body. These facts are shown on the front page of the bulletin in an impressive cartoon bearing the suggestive question, ‘Tf the state can protect criminals, why can’t it protect schoolchildren?” Why, indeed? It is gratifying to know that the local school board is doing everything in its power to improve the situation. But

Digitized by t^ooQle
— 431 —

the fact remains that under the present law in Michigan, all plans for jails are subject to the approval of the State Board of Health, while schoolhouses may be built and are built without, any sanitary supervision whatever. Similar conditions are all too common in other states.—Joum. A. M. A. Dec. 7, 1912.

—Walking, if properly and regularly followed would become not only a restorer of health to many who at the present time are on the road to disease, but also a source of pleasure. Let the arms swing if you feel like it, and the limbs, too; open the nostrils and fill the lungs, and the movements will send a gentle electric vibration through the entire body, the result of which is the awakening of new life. Never take the lazy gait, as it soon makes one tired, and produces langour. A little perspiration on the “home stretch” may prove to be a blessing jiot only in carrying effete matter from the body, but in bringing an increased supply of oxygen into the blood, and putting the blush of health on the cheek. Perhaps the best time to walk is in the early morning. The air is then free from dust and smoke which rises later in the day. At this time, also, the mind is liable to be free from worry and anxiety, hence in the best condition to drink in the blessings of freshness for us on every hand.—“Health”—London.

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

The past two months have been exceptionally busy ones for the students of the Normal College. A few changes were made in the curriculum at the beginning of the second term. Basketball is one of the highly organized team games that is taken up in this lerm.

A number of basketball teams have been formed among both women and men and a series of games arranged, the object being to teach In a thorough manner the theory and practice of coaching and playing the game. Much interest is being maintained in the outcome of the indoor baseball series between the seniors and freshmen. Of the five games played, the seniors have won three and the freshmen two. The conference meetings held once a month are giving an opportunity to the students of addressing an audience and gaining self-confidence which will be very valuable in after-life. Many interesting topics pertaining to the work have been discussed.

The social committee has been active and has arranged several very enjoyable dances. One especially—the Farmers’ Dance—was a decided success. The girls in their aprons and sunbonnets and the boys in overalls made it - seem like a real old-fashioned country frolic.

On Thanksgiving eve the Board of Trustees gave a Thanksgiving dinner at the German House to the students. The members of the board, together with their wives and all the students were present, eighty-five covers being laid. Mr. Franklin Vonnegut, President of the Board, was a very efficient toast-master getting prompt responses from all on whom he called. The dinner will be long remembered by the students and it is their sincere wish that a re-union of this character shall become an annual affair.

The Board of Examiners made its annual visit to the Normal College, Nov. 29 and 30, and expressed itself well pleased with the work a<*-complished by the students. Mr. Wittich’s paper on “The Relation "of Educational Gymnastics to Exhibitions” and Dr. Enoch’s paper bn, “The

\

Digitized by Google
Breast Stroke in Swimming” created interesting discussions and were thoroughly appreciated, as also was Mr. Stecher’s talk on “Efficiency.” Mr. Gilden Neeb, G. G. 1912—now located in Kansas City, Mo., recently sent the seniors a donation with which to have a class entertainment. As a result of his thoughtfulness the members of the class spent a very pleasant evening

The ladies, not to be outdone have arranged for monthly entertainments among themselves and from all reports have just as good a time as the men.

ALEX. A. HARWICK, Recorder

CURT NORMAL SCHOOL Of DANCING

Founded by Mr. Melvin B. Gilbert of Boston in 1893.

Second Season in New York June and July 1913

Complete courses for teachers in the theory and practice of dancing. The course includes Elementary Principles of Dancing, Directed Practice, Technical Training, Methods of Teaching, Folk Dancing, Russian Ballet Dancing, Aesthetic Dancing, Social Dancing including all the ne'wer dances, Original Composition, Music in relation to Dancing, History of Dancing.

The Folk Dancing Department is under the personal supervision of Miss ELIZABETH BURCHEXAL, leader of the Folk Dancing movement in America.

For circulars giving further information send toMiss SUSAN HOFFMAN GILMAN, Principal of the Gilbert Normal School of Dancing, 21 East 44th St., New York City.

ENJOY A BTiAT, VACATION

BY ATTENDING THE

DENVER TTJRXTFEST

NEXT SUMMER.

Automobiling, camping, fishing, hunting and mountain climbing are only a few of the outdoor sports to be enjoyed in Colorado during the summer months; the days are full of pleasure .and the nights are cool and made for restful sleep. TRAVEL TO COLORADO IN COMFORT AND ENJOY YOUR TRIP FROM THE START BY GOING VIA

UNION PACIFIC

Standard Road of the West

PROTECTED BY AUTOMATIC ELECTRIC BLOCK SAFETY SIGNALS.

EXCELLENT DIlTIlTa- C.A.2&S OZfcT .A-XjXj TRAINS

The Union Pacific is the great highway over which, for two generations, the east has gone west and the west has gone east.

For Colorado literature and information relative to fares, routes, reservations, etc*, call on or address

W. G. NEIMYER,

General Agent, CHICAGO, ILL*

v/*'

' * I*

Digitized by

Google