. library

university of Mo

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 28________DECEMBER,	Ittl_________No. 3»

NMbM By THE MIND AND BODY PUBU8H1N0 COMPANY, New Vim, MM*

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public School*, Salt Lak* City, Utah EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D.	M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Sargent School, Cambridge, Mam WM. A. 8TECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, PhiL, Pa.

Edtorial communication* am to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second date matter October Jj, 1916, at the poetoffiee at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March j> 1879.

		
	Qriginal articles and reprint^	

THE JUDGING AND VALUE OF GYMNASTIC EXERCISES ON

APPARATUS*

BY THEODORE A. GROSS, CHICAGO.

Judging the value of gymnastic exercises on a basis that will accurately register in points their true worth without leaving all to the opinion of the judge is a matter that must be regulated in order to give mater assurance to the gymnast in competition that his exercise has been accurately valued.

The present method of judging the value of an exercise on parallel, horizontal bars, horse and rings leaves too much to the opinion of the

NOTE: About a year ago Mr. Gross presented to the technical committee of the American Gymnastic Union, his ideas for a new procedure in the judging of apparatus work. His ideas were thought to be distinctly worth while, and he was requested to submit them in writing so that they might be published and thus lead to a discussion of their value by all men and women who delight in performing exercises upon apparatus. Mr. Gross’s plan is an extension or elaboration of the plan by which diving is judged and valued. The difference that will naturally present itself immediately to all competitors is the fact that in diving one hasn’t much time to execute a difficult combination; a dive usually being one complete movement. There can, therefore, be little difference

Digitized by U.ooQLe
802

judge whose estimate of the value is based usually upon his particular experience and his personal proficiency as a performer on the apparatus involved.

By this method an exercise will appear to be more difficult to one than to another judge according to his own experience in performing the same exercise. The exercise is therefore, given its value without any definite or measured basis. The judge must also observe three different

elements of the exercise i. difficulty, form and combination-----all at the

same time. This is exceedingly difficult to do without a great deal of inaccuracy in judgment.

Another disadvantage of the present system is limiting the value to ten points for a perfect performance making it also necessary to place a similar limit on track and field sports so as to maintain a balance in value between the two forms of competition, a restriction that has a tendency to hold back or retard the development of skill and endurance, especially in field and track work as there is little desire for a contestant to proceed after he has attained his ten point limit.

Again the value given an exercise often is influenced according to whether the preceeding performance was good or poor, a fair performance appearing a great deal better when following a poorly executed one. Vice versa, it also often happens that a perfect performance resulting in the highest score is obtained by contestants early in the competition, when succeeding contestants also showing a perfect performance, but doing a much more difficult exercise can not obtain any more points, which of course is unfair.

The method herein suggested is intended to eliminate as much of the uncertainty and inaccuracy of judgment as possible, and to remove entirely the limit of points that can be made in gymnastic exercises or field and track events. This is done by placing definite values on each part of an exercise and by adding the values of the parts shown as the true value of the entire exercise, and by placing the responsibility for judging the difficulty, the combination and the form upon separate judges.

The plan is to give each of the different parts of a combination a specific value. For example on the parallel bars, hand stand has a value one point; upper arm stand one half point; kip or upstart one point; etc. All of the distinct parts of a combination shall have a basic value of one-half, one or two points as the case may be, and allow an additional % — yi — yi — ori point for the different varieties of hand stands.

of opinion as to what has been shown. The judging in this case consists simply of a valuation of the form in which a dive has been performed and adding to this its difficulty. In a third grade exercise upon any piece of apparatus, however, a combination may be presented that has innumerable parts, each part being different from any other. This wonderful combination, then, often is shown with great rapidity. Under Mr. Gross’s plan some method would have to be perfected that gave a judge the opportunity immediately to check the exercise shown, as there would be little time to record this in writing even in abbreviations. We take great pleasure in presenting this thought to our readers and hope that the plan will be tried out in many places. Should any reader care to have their comments printed we shall be glad to do so.—The Edit6r.
803

turns, kips, etc., according to their increased difficulty or for having been' executed from a more difficult starting position. Then elimate, except as to form, all feints or intermediate swings as these are merely assisting or connecting movements between the various distinctive parts of a combination.

Thus an ordinary hand stand has a basic value of one point; when executed from a difficult starting position add one-half point. An additional yi point to be given for each one quarter turn while in the hand

stand.

FOR EXAMPLE.

Hand stand from swing start................................i	point

Hand stand from support start......................... i-yi	points

Hand stand from support with yi turn .....................2	points

The same with the various forms of kips and other exercises.

Kip from ordinary swing upper or lower....................1	point

Kip from stationary support upper or lower ............i-}i	points

Kip from stationary support drop or back .................2	points

Long Kip .................................................2	points

The first repetition of any part of a combination to receive one-half value. The second repetition, one-fourth value. Further repetitions, no value, these being considered assisting or connecting movements. This is done so as to avoid a constantly increasing value of a combination by a series of repetitions such as hand stands, giant swings, etc.

By this method after all of the various parts of a combination have been given basic values, the values are added, the sum designating the value of the entire combination, one judge, perhaps better called a checker, observes the different exercises and their value. Another person judges the form on a basis of 5 points for perfection. This added to the value of the exercise designated by the checker gives the true value in points for the entire combination.

EXAMPLE—PARALLEL BARS.

Exercise: Jump to upper arm hang, immediate front rise with rear swing to hand stand, back roll to free support with drop kip to hand stand, lower to dip swing forward with one half turn left to free support, lower to long kip with double rear vault left to stand.

Value:	Front rise yi point. Hand stand 1 point Roll to support

1 point, drop kip 2 points. Hand Stand (repetition) 1 point. Dip swing half turn 1 point. Long kip, 2 points. Double rear vault, 2 points.

Total....................................................10-yi points

Form......................................................4-Vi points

Total value of combination........................................ ij	points

Notice: . The second hand stand is given a value of 1 point. As a repetition it has a value of one-half point, but being executed immediately from a drop kip (difficult starting position) it gains in value one-half point thereby making its true value one point in the combination.

DEDUCTIONS OR PENALTIES.

Unnecessary intermediate swings are to be considered as additional assistance or second trials for the part and shall reduce the value of the

Digitized by LjOOQle
part by yi> #. in the above exercise if the front rise is not attained without an intermediate swing the value is reduced to yi point. If the first hand stand is not attained by the first rear swing the value is one-half point. If the second hand stand is attained immediately from the drop kip it gains one-half point in value because done from a difficult starting position, making its value i-yi points, but either it or the first hand srtand loses yi point in value because it is a repetition of a former part.

Failure to obtain any part of a combination on the first attempt reduces its value yi and failure on the second attempt reduces it another half or yi of the whole value, the yi of the value thus remaining is given when the part is ultimately attained. If the part is not attained at all the whole value of the part is lost and the attempt considered as unnecessary or intermediate swings for the following parts, thereby reducing their value.

In the above exercise if the hand stand from the drop kip is not attained after repeated efforts and the contestant abandons his attempt and continues into the next part (kip swing forward with one-half turn left or right to free support, value one point) it shall be considered an intermediate swing and reduce the value of the following part by one-half, so that a break down in a combination not only loses the value of the part and reduces the value of the following part, but is^also]fpenalized in the form and beauty of execution.

The big problem in this method is to obtain the proper relative values for the various parts and the building of a code of abbreviations so that the exercise may be quickly recorded by the judge or checker. The following are suggested as a preliminary step with the hope that experienced officials may develop them more accurately.

Name of Part	Abbreviation  PARALLEL BARS	Basic Value
Ordinary Hand Stand	0. H. S.	i point
Hand stand with turns	H. S. M T.	yi pt. each yi turn
Difficult hand stand	D. H. S.	yi pt. add. for dif. pos.
Ordinary kip	O. K.	i point
Kip from free support	S. K.	yi pt. add. for dif. po*.
Drop kip	D. K.	i -yi pts.
Back kip	B. K.	2 points
Long kip	L. K.	2 points
Free support turns	s. yiT.	% pt. for each yi turn
Free support flips and saults	S. F.	2 points
Ordinary rolls front or back	O. Rol.	yi point
Ordinary rise front or back	0. Rise	yi point
Roll to support	S. Rol.	i point
Rise to support	S. Ris.	i point
Straddle turns.	St. T.	yi pt. for each yi turn
Levers or scales	Lev.	i point
Vault. Ordinary front or rear	0. V.	I point
Double front or rear	D. V.	2 points
HORIZONTAL BAR		
Ordinary kip	0. K.	i point
Drop kip	D. K.	i-yi points
Back kip	B. K.	2 points

Digitized by <^.ooQle
Uprise kip	U. Ris.	i-K points
Uprise with turns	R. Ris. T.	yi pt. add. for each yi t.
Turns in swing	Sw. yiT.	yi point
Turns in support	Sw. S. X T.	yi pt. add for each \i t.
Circles knee	Kn. Cir.	yi point 1 point
Circles Foot	Ft. Cir.	
Cirde Hip	H. Cir.	1 point
Swing giant front or back	G. S.	2 points
Swings giant with turns	G. s. y T.	add yi pt. for ea yi t.
Squats from swing	Sw. Sq.	i-yi pt.
Squats from support	Sp. Sq.	2. points
Dislocations	Dis.	2 points
Levers or Scales	Lev.	2 points
Ordinary vaults front or rear	O. V.	1 point
with turns	v. yi T.	ii Pl* for ea yi tun*
with flips or saults	V. F.	2 points
with squats	Sq.  SIDE HORSE	2 points
Ordinary leg circles i leg	i L. Cir.	1 point
Ordinary hip cirdes 2 legs Same starting or finishing in	2 L. Cir.	2 points
stationary free support	S. L. Cir.	add. yi pt.
Support turns	s. yi T.	Vi pt. for ea. yi turn
Squats	Sq.	1 point
Squats with turns	Sq. yi T.	yi pt. for ea. yi turn
Scissors	Scrs.	1 point
Ordinary Vaults	0. V.	I point
Ordinary vaults with turns	v. yi T.  LONO HORSE.	yi pt. for ea. yi turn
Ordinary Vaults	0. V.	1 point
with turns	v. yi T.	yi pt. for ea. yi turn
with flips or saults	V. F.	2 points
with squats	V. Sq.  RINGS.	2 points
Ordinary Kip	O. K.	1 point
Drop kip	D. K.	i-yi point
Back kip	B. K.	2 points
Uprise kip	U. Ris.	1 yi point
Ordinary hangs	O. H.	M point
Difficult hangs	D. H.	M pt. for ea. yi turn
Turns in swing	Sw. yi T.	l/i point
Support turns	s. yiT.	yi pt. for ea. yi turn
Dislocations	Dis.	2 points
Release grip and regrasps	R. G.	yi to I add. pt. to value of exercise preceeding
Ordinary dismounts	O. D.	yi point
with turns	D. yi T.	yi pt. for ea. yi turn
with flips or saults	F. D.	2 points
No attempt is made here	to designate all of the^numerous possible	
parts of a combination or their relative values		as this part of the scheme
can be worked out with more	accuracy by a	committee of experienced

Digitized by ^ooQle
806

teachers, if the idea is feasible. The purpose of the suggestion is to place the idea before those interested for experimentation, in the hope that it will develop a more accurate method of judging the point value of apparatus exercises.

The advantagesjof the method are these. It makes it unnecessary to place a limit on either gymnastic or on field and track work; it gives each contestant full value for difficulty regardless of who preceded or followed him. It will encourage more difficult combinations. It will enable a contestant to estimate the value of his exercise in advance just as he can estimate the value of his jump or shot put. Last, but not least, it will be as free from guess work and inaccuracies as is possible to make it.

The writer who is a member of the Turnverein Vorwaerts of Chicago would be pleased to have the teachers of gymnastics thruout the country consider this "suggestion, try it out and advise whether the idea is feasible at all or what changes are necessary to make the plan practical.

Address Theodore A. Gross, 1835 West Lake Street, Chicago.

AN IMPORTANT FACTOR IN OCULAR HYGIENE:	GLASS.

BY LAWRENCE AUGUSTUS AVERILL,

Editor oj The American journal oj School Hygiene.

To the layman the most striking evidence of the importance of glare as a factor in human vision is doubtless the alarming number of automobile accidents in which glaring headlights have been responsible for dazzling the eyes of the operative so that he was totally at a loss to distinguish objects in the path of his own machine. So widespread indeed has this evil become that practically every state in the union has taken positive steps to reduce the dangers from glaring headlights to a minimum. Whether, however, these dangers can be wholly eliminated by specially ribbed and focused lenses is extremely doubtful. Until the time comes when our highways are lighted from overhead units there will doubtless continue to be numerous accidents at night time.

There are, however, other aspects of glare of extreme importance both physiologically and hygienically, and these are of vital concern to everyone. Old and young alike, whether out-of-doors or in-doors, in the daytime or at night, are subjected to more or less glare. This paper will enumerate certain of the evils resulting from such exposure of the very sensitive ocular mechanism to light of too great intensity, and suggest certain hygienic precautions which all of us should take if we are to maintain the efficiency of vision at a reasonably high point.

How indefatigably active the pupillary muscles of an individual must be in the course of the day in order to protect properly the sensitive areas of the human eye we perhaps do not appreciate. Obviously there are large differences in the amount of light present during any one day as well as between very bright and very dark days, and the speed with which the eyes are able to adapt themselves to these sudden changes in

Reprint from The American Journal of School Hygiene.

Digitized by Google
S*7

the amount of illumination is truly astonishing. Cohn (a), for example, found in his photometric measurements on a single summer day the number of meter candles varying from 4,519 to 76,560* while on a single winter day he noted the enormous variation of from 579 meter candles to 9,863.

Gstettner (5) reports observing in the lapse of a few seconds differences up to 250 meter candles on a desk in the middle of a schoolroom at noon. All this simply means that the human eyes, which are continually at the mercy of such sharp variations in luminosity must be protected by means of the pupillary mechanism against the entry of too much light. Let but so common an occurrence as a tiny cloud pass across the face of the sun, and the pupillary sphincters relax slightly to allow a greater amount of light to enter. Let now the sun suddenly break out through the cloud, and forthwith the reverse pupillary action must take place in order that too much light may be prevented from impinging upon the sensitive retina. In passing from a dark into a lighted room one experiences this phenomenon at its maximum. The quantity of light passing through the pupils is regulated almost instantaneously by the iris which initiates the contracting of the pupil in the bright light into which the eye is suddenly	come.	This,	however, is a temporary	reaction, for

with the progress of	adaptation in	the retina the pupil again	dilates. For

some seconds after exposure to the brightness one is uncomfortably aware of the glare from it, the explanation of course being that the eye which the moment before was “dark adapted" is only slowly becoming "light adapted."

Kerr (8) ascribes to glare the chief importance among all ocular conditions, and considers it the chief ocular evil in the life of the school pupil. He points out that in order that the contrasts in the image may be sharp and clear, there must be rapid removal of the products of metabolism, and unless	this is	done	after-images may result.	Improperly

focussed light falling	on the	retina	as a haze may also mar the necessary

contrasts. Malnutrition or interference with the retinal circulation causes after-images from the sluggish removal of the waste products in the retina. This glare from the persistence of after-images is one of the earliest signs of migraine. In toxic or exhausted conditions, muscae volitantes, the shadows of little cells and obscurities in the vitreous which are usually unnoticed, set up after-images which may become positively disagreeable. Another very common condition in which excessive glare is set up may be experienced when the rays of bright or even dull light are reflected upon the upper instead of the lower halves of the retina. In our upright position the upper halves of the retina are lighted habitually by the relatively dark images of the foreground, while the lower halves are accustomed to the brighter reflections from the sky. “The myriad sparkle of the summer sea, sunshine on the dusty road, or snow upon the mountains may thus become intolerable. The wanderer notices no glare until he lies down on his back, but even a gray sky may set up glare when its image falls on other than the usual lower half of the retina.”

The same author states that the effect produced on the retina by every image should be a transient one, except that in cases of considerable brightness intrinsic in the sources of light, the image is likely to be of some duration. In rare cases of highly intense visual stimuli there may

Digitized by t^ooQle
808

•ccur permanent organic changes, as, for example, sometimes happens ia the case of amateur observers watching the sunspots or eclipses without taking proper pains to protect their eyes from the brightness of the luminous surface. These functional disturbances may last for hours, or even days, and occasionally result in scotoma. Still another common cause of glare is unfocussed light arising from shiny surfaces and reflecting images into the eye.

Ferree (3), after citing the fact that the problem of the earlier lighting engineers was to get the maximum output of light for a given expenditure of energy, rather than to discover the relationship of lighting systems to the economy of the eye, asserts that the real test of a lighting system should be how little loss of efficiency the eye suffers over a considerable period of unbroken work, plus the maximum of comfort. In order to investigate this factor in various lighting systems, Ferree, working with the American Medical Association, (1911), set about originating tests that would show reasonable constancy of visual efficiency under a favorable lighting system—or, in other words, to determine what lighting systems are best for the efficiency and comfort of the eye. While we are not concerned here with the tests actually evolved by Ferree, his findings are important. He mentions the following three aspects of lighting that sustain an important relation to eye-comfort and efficiency: (1) the distribution of surface brightness in the field of vision; (2) intensity; and (3) quality of the illumination. In the first of these, distribution, he finds proper illumination of a room by daylight to be the most satisfactory conditions from all points of view. Of the three systems of artificial lighting, the indirect illumination is best, being more approximately like daylight than any other. The loss of efficiency during a three-hour period of work was only slightly greater under this system for all observers than for a similar period by daylight for the same foot candles of illumination. The greatest loss of efficiency in the observers was suffered under the direct system of illumination, while the loss incurred under the semi-indirect was nearly as great. In general, there is slight difference in efficiency and eye comfort under the daylight and indirect methods, while both methods are far superior to the direct and the semi-indirect.

In the second aspect of lighting, intensity, Ferree finds that while a very wide range of intensity is permissible, for daylight and the indirect type of system, for the semi-indirect system, the eye falls off heavily in efficiency for all intensities outside a narrow range on either side of 1.7 foot-candles, measured at the level of the eye at the point of work, with the receiving surface of the photometer in the horizontal plane. For the direct system, however, no intensity can be found for which the eye does not lose a very great deal in efficiency as the result of work. Compared with Ferree's findings, the intensity recommended by the Illuminating Engineering Society (Primer, 1912) for semi-indirect lighting ranges from

2-3 to 7-10 foot-candles, with 5-foot candles taken as the median of value. This is approximately three times the intensity of illumination recommended by Ferree. The explanation offered by Ferree is, and probably truly, that for a short period of work an intensity of 1.7 foot-candles docs not give the maximum of vision. At an intensity, however, which does give maximum acuity for the momentary judgment, the eye runs down rapidly in efficiency over a considerable period of dose application.
809

The eye breaks down less rapidly under sustained effort when the intensity of the illumination is much lower than the standard recommended by the Society.

In the third aspect, quality, this author finds that, while more experimentation is needed, the work that has been done shows that clear white light affords a greater acuity of seeing than do lights of any of the colors projected through tinted globes.

• Ferree’s general conclusion is that if the light is well distributed in the. field of vision, and if there are no extremes of surface brightness, the eye is practically independent of intensity—of course within reasonable limits. But for the kind of distribution effects we are getting from the large majority of our lighting systems, unquestionably too much light is being used for the welfare and comfort of the eye. If the source of light is to be in the field of vision at all, it should be as nearly as possible at the level of the eye, in order that the irritating effects commonly produced by the source of light falling on the upper or lower halves of the retina may be removed.

Luckiesh (9) points out, however, that the removal of the light sources from the field of vision is only half what must be done in order td:safeguard the pupils’ eyes from discomfort and injury. It is of equal importance that the surface polish of walls, blackboards, desk-tops, and paper be eliminated. Undoubtedly, the chief among these offenders is the glossy paper, so frequently still made use of by text-book makers, which acts as a mirror to reflect brightness from the lighting units directly or obliquely across the field of vision. At the Dundee meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, in 1912, a paper for school books was recommended that should be absolutely without gloss. A white paper, or one slightly toned towards cream color, was proposed as the most satisfactory shade. Luckiesh mentions the fact that from glazed paper there is always an imperfect image of the lighting unit superimposed constantly upon the bright background, which is very disagreeable to the eyes. Beside this image of the units, the brightness of the paper itself, due to the diffusely reflected light, varies inversely as the square of the distance of the paper from the light source. Thus, while the amount of annoyance produced by paper held close to the light source is slight, it becomes tantalizing when the source and the paper are considerably removed from one another—a condition which necessarily obtains more or less in the schoolroom. Obviously, what makes it possible for words to be perceived sharply on paper is the degree of contrast between the black ofj the print and the white background; and any factor which tends to disturb this contrast is objectionable. “Assume that the ratio of brightness of the black characters—due to diffusely reflected light—to that of the white background is 4 to 100. This might be called the contrast ratio due to diffusely reflected light. If the paper and ink are somewhat glossy, they will also reflect light directly as a mirror does. Assume that each directly reflects the image of the light source, with a degree of brightness that results in a contrast ratio, due to reflection alone, of 200 in the units of brightness as the first ratio. These brightnesses, due to regular and diffuse reflection, are, of course, superimposed with the resultant contrast ratio of 4—200 to 100—200, or 204 to 300.” Here the contrast ratio has been reduced from 1 to 25 to approximately 2 to 3.'

Digitized by Tooele
810

Of course, as Luckiesh points out, it is conceivable that, due to the pressure of the type during printing, the contrast ratio may be actually reversed and the black characters become actually brighter than the paper. But the eye, being focussed for the printed matter, is bothered by the reflected image of the light source which spreads itself out over the retina, thus forming a veil which reduces the contrast. Under such conditions, the contrast may actually be reduced to zero. One can easily establish this principle to his own satisfaction by attempting to read in a sun-lit window from a book in which a highly polished or coated finish is used. It will be found that only after the book has been turned so that the page lies in a plane which is perpendicular to the line of vision can the words be read, and then with considerable strain and discomfort.

The same author refers to a committee appointed by the Illuminating Engineering Society for the purpose of studying glare from reflected surfaces. This committee is quoted as already having conferred with several publishers of school books and with many school officials in large cities— but with rather unsatisfactory results. But few of the school officials have reported, while the publishers, admitting the undesirable ness of glazed papers, usually claim it is impossible to obtain an unglazed paper which will reproduce half-tones satisfactorily and still fulfill the requisites of cheapness and durability. More recently, however, with the growth of-more refined printing processes, it has seemed that very excellent halftone results may be had on paper that is entirely unglazed. What is needed, however, is a concerted demand on the part of all school authorities for such paper. With a few conspicuous exceptions, there has beeti little effort made to impress publishers with the importance of this matter, although there are at the present time in this country several large and wellknown educational publishing houses which have appreciated the importance of this matter and have led the way in printing text books for schools on unglazed paper.

A.	v. Feuss (io) is in substantial agreement with Ferree in the evils of too strong light. In the case of protracted work under such conditions, he finds, hyperesthesia of the retina may frequently follow. Snow-blindness, so-called, in consequence of looking for some time upon the dazzling snow, is an illustration with which persons in temperate zones are well familiar. Mountaineers and arctic explorers are especially liable to ocular injury, the excessive amount of ultra-violet rays burning the conjunctiva and in extreme cases the cornea. Posey (11) recommends for protection against snow and ice glare the common open spectacle frame fitted with large smoked or tinted glasses, and reports that all more or less hermetically fitting goggles for the exclusion of side light have beefi found by travelers to be superfluous and serve only to moisten the glasses. Motorists who have worn such goggles can bear witness to the truth of the latter statement. Glasses tinted yellow-green, according to this investigator, absorb the ultra-violets rays, and at the same time have but little coloring effect upon the landscape seen through them. There are also some cases on record of amateur sun-observers who, failing to equip themselves with proper lenses, have suffered either temporary or permanent blind areas in the retina which the glare from the sun has inflicted. fw one such case, Dr. Paul Roemer, chief of the Greifswald University Eye Clinic, was actually able to see by means of the ophthalmoscope a pec-

Digitized by i^ooQle
811

sistent destruction in the region of macula lutea. Still other illustration* of injury to the ocular mechanisms by work in too strong light may be seen m eye-twitchings, epiphora, hyperaemia of conjunctiva and in the lid margins.

Alger (i) supports Ferree in charging that people very often insist on needlessly bright illumination of their homes and workrooms simply because they have accustomed themselves to it and have in consequence so blunted their retinal sensitivity that a reasonably bright light appears altogether inadequate for them. Both Alger and other investigators, however, hasten to point out that light that is actually too dim is just as harmful to eyes which must see in it as is light which is too strong.

In artificial lighting, sharp contrasts between cither lighting units and their backgrounds or light and dark objectives should be reduced to the minimum. A gas-mantle, as Ives (7) points out, may be viewed against the bright sky in the daytime with no discomfort whatever, whereas the same mantle, seen against the darkness of night time may be all but unendurable. In this connection the effects of the motion-picture are specially deserving of note. Unquestionably the least strain is imposed upon the eye mechanism by attendance at the moving picture theatre in the evening. At such a time the sharp contrast between the ' bright out-of-doors and the dim theatre is absent, and the adjustment which the eyes are compelled to make upon entering the theatre is obviously much less in amount. In passing from the natural light of the street, however, into the semi-darkness of the theatre during the daylight hours, one is immediately aware of the extraordinary strain placed upon the eyes.

In order, therefore, to reduce to a minimum the amount of adjustment required of the eye muscles, it is important that the theatre, instead of being in almost complete darkness, save at the screen, be as light as possible without lessening too appreciably the sharpness of the shadows upon the screen. In the event of the room being too light, the eyes will be forced to use more energy in fixating the images on the screen before them. The indirect system of lighting is to be recommended for the general illumination of the house as interfering least with the satisfactory perception of the pictures. Considering the millions of pairs of eyes that are daily riveted upon the screen for a period of from two to . four hours, it is particularly important that theatre managers should be compelled by law everywhere to maintain their equipment in the best possible condition in order that the eye mechanisms may suffer the minimum of fatigue in the ocular ordeal of the screen.

Ives (7) notes that good artificial lighting is not a question of the kind of illuminant, but rather of how the illuminant is used, the whole problem of artificial lighting being, according to him, but a matter of the proper disposition of the light with respect first, to the objects to be lighted and, second, with respect to the people who are to see these objects. The most fundamental principle of good artificial lighting is that the light must shine on the object and not in the eyes of the observer. An unshielded light should then, according to this cardinal hygienic - principle, never be visible. It must, however, be shielded in such a way that the maximum of its brightness shall fall upon the object of interest, whether that object be the printed page, or the sewing, or the lathe.
812

Lamp-shades on electric reading lamps are often particularly disagreeable and fatiguing to the eyes because of the wavering shadows cast by ornamental fringes and tassels depending from the lower rim of the shade. Reading over a polished table top which throws back the glare of the lighting unit into the eyes is also a practice to be condemned, as is likewise that of reading with the lamp directly before one.

The same writer makes an excellent distinction between directed and diffused lighting, the former being thrown sharply and directly upon some local objective such as a type-setting case, sewing, etc., leaving the remainder of the room in sharply defined shadow; the latter being distributed evenly and softly over a non-localized area with attending absence of contrasting illuminated and shadowed spots. Diffusion is ordinarily obtained either through frosted or opal bulbs or globes or through redirection of the light rays upon a white surface, such as the wall or ceiling, which then becomes the light source.

Conclusions.

The following conclusions and recommendations concerning glare arc important:

1.	The phenomenon of glare is of extreme importance, both physiologically and hygienically and deserves to be better understood as of vital concern to the efficiency of the human eye.

2.	A tremendous amount of muscular adjustment and readjustment is demanded of the eyes in order that ordinary changes in the brightness of illumination about one may not injure the sensitive areas of the retina.

3.	Persistence of after-images, due to such physiological maladjustments as slow removal of metabolic products, malnutrition, interference with retinal circulation, etc., is a common cause of glare.

4.	Visual stimuli of a high degree of intensity may be instrumental in permanently injuring or even blinding the eye not properly protected.

5.	Unfocussed light is a common cause of glare; particularly is this true in schoolrooms.

6.	The indirect method of illumination most closely approximates natural illumination in quality, and so is least apt to cause glare.

7.	There is grave danger in many of our lighting systems that too much light is used for the best economy of vision.

8.	All light sources should be removed from the field of vision or else properly shaded.

9.	Surface polish of walls, blackboards, desk-tops, paper, etc., should be eliminated from every schoolroom.

10.	In all forms of artificial lighting sharp contrasts between both lighting units and their backgrounds and between light and dark objectives should be so far as possible ruled out.

Bibliography.

1.	Alger, Ellice M. The relation of illumination to ocular hygiene. Translations, Fourth Internatl. Cong, on Sch. Hyg. Vol. 5.

2.	Cohn, H. Wie Tagesbeleuchtung in den Klassenzimmern pruefcn? Allgem. Mediz. Central-Zeitung, 1901.

3.	Ferree, C. E. The Efficiency of the eye under different systems •f lighting. Translations, Fourth Internatl. Cong, on Sch. Hyg. Vol. 5.

4.	Furber, Wm. C. Daylight illumination of rooms and buildings

Digitized by v^.ooQle
818

from an architectural standpoint. In Posey’s "Hygiene of the Eye.” Chap. 8.

5.	Gstettner, M. The lighting of schoolrooms, etc. Transactions Fourth Internatl. Cong, on Sch. Hyg. Vol. 5.

6.	Illuminating Engineers’ Society. 1912 Primer.

7.	Ives, Herbert E. Artificial lighting. In Posey's "Hygiene of the Eye." Chap. 7.

8.	Kerr, James. Glare and the student’s life. Am. Jour. Schl Hyg. Vol. 2, 1918.

9.	Luckiesh, M. Glare from paper. Transactions, Fourth Internatl. Cong, on Sch. Hyg. Vol. 5.

10.	v. Reuss, A. Beitraege zur Kenntnis des Jugendlichen Auges. Graefes Archiv. XXII

11.	Posey, Wm. C. Hygiene of the Eye. Phila. Lippencott, 1918.

J44 P • 111.	_____________________

PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN HIGH SCHOOLS OF MILWAUKEE.

BY GEORGE WITTICH.

UNDERLYING PRINCIPLES.

/. Physical:

1.	All-round and symmetrical development of the musculature with emphasis on good posture and general co-ordination.

2.	Improving heart and lung power as well as capacity and mobility of chest.

3.	Developing resoluteness and accuracy of action, self-confidence and calm judgment. Determination.

P 4. Simple tests at the end of each semester or school year to ascertain the results of the instructions and improvement of individuals and classes.

II.	Hygienic:

1.	Inspection by sight. Measurements.

2.	Correcting postural abnormalities.

3.	Calling attention to the benefits as well as the dangers of the practice of the various forms of exercises.

4.	Hints and talks bearing on health-habits and personal hygiene.

III.	Exercises designed to bring about the results named under I are:

1.	Correct marching, combination free exercises with and without wands and clubs progressively applied, calisthenics designed to correct faulty posture, balance exercises.

Elementary exercises on apparatus, giving some preference to exercises in hang and the development of the flexors of the arms. Corrective exercises on poles, rings, ladders and horizontal bars, such as bending of arms in hang-lying with elbows drawn back at sides, in hand-hang, traveling sideward in span, and backward in cross-hang, also, pushing between shoulder blades of pupils hanging from rings or two poles.

Shot-put, hurling the ball or discus and throwing the javelin left and right. Sprinting.

2.	Forms of exercises requiring rhythmical action of the larger*

Digitized by Google
814

muscle groups, such as running, skipping, dancing, and running with and without a ball. Breathing exercises.

3.	Exercises on apparatus that seem somewhat dangerous, such as the knee-dismount from the horse, all vaulting exercises over buck, horse, parallel and horizontal, bars high, far and deep jumping, pole vault, tumbling, combative games, sprinting and climbing.

4.	Testing is the means by which we determine the quality of our teaching and the amount of this teaching that has been retained or acquired by our pupils.

Tests must be simple and effective and must not consume much rime. With the aid of trained leaders several groups of pupils can be tested at one time.

In-door athletic and gymnastic meets and out-of-door athletic competition are a means of arousing enthusiasm—but they must not occur too often.

It is advisable to keep records of the results of tests for the sake of comparison. Pupils may be assigned to do the work.

IV.

1-2. Inspection and measurements are of doubtful value if not thoroughly conducted and if sufficient time and adequate help are not available. Time has been set aside for this work only in the Trade School for Girls; the results obtained in that school are encouraging. In all high schools individual attention is at present impossible owing to inadequate help. Under the present conditions we can take at the beginning of each semester only the girth of chest measurement, height and weight. Corrective forms of exercises in calisthenics and on apparatus as class work should be included in every lesson. At opportune times advice and practical illustrations should be given to individuals, in need of such supplementary work.

The Health Department of Milwaukee has undertaken to examine heart, lungs, sight and hearing of our pupils. This fact relieves us of this dtity and responsibility. In order to facilitate the work of the school physician it may be well to examine the so-called “Physical Cards” of the incoming freshmen at the beginning of each semester and turn over to the physician for inspection all those freshmen who are marked abnormal in one respect or an ther.	^

day's order in physical training for the boys and girls or OUR

HIGH SCHOOLS.

1st Lesson:

a.	Running. Girls vigorous dancing in alternation with running. Five minutes.

b.	Free exercises, short period. Five Minutes to Eight Minutes.

c.	Exercises on apparatus in hanging, supporting and vaulting.. Fifteen - twenty minutes.

2nd Lesson:

a.	Running and dancing. Five minutes.

b.	Free exercises with and without wands and clubs. 10 minutes.

c.	Track and field work, jumping, vaulting, putting and throwing, or a vigorous game. 20 minutes.

jrd Lesson: Same as Lesson I.

Digitized by Google
816

ph Lesson:

a.	Running and dancing. 5 minutes.

b.	Free exercises with and without wands and dubs. 10 minutes.

c.	Games, Boys occasionally combative exercises in the form of wrestling with and without wands. 20 minutes.

$th Lesson: Same as Lesson 1.

Remark: A short and snappy game may be interspersed whenever the time permits it.

General Remarks:

Whenever possible the pupils should be given a few minutes of free use of the gymnasium and apparatus prior to the lesson. The gymnasium should, however, not be monopolized during this period by a few pupils tossing and catching a basketball or by any other group of players. Leaders or corporals should enforce practice that is orderly and free from danger. Free periods of this kind are an incentive to better efforts and will cause pupils to get ready for the gym work quickly.

The same physical exercises will suffice for the lessons of one day if adapted to the ability and experience of the pupils of the various dasses. Placing or adjusting the apparatus ready for use prior to the first lesson, or having pupils of the first morning dass do so, and leaving them in this position Jor the rest oj the day, will help to save time and work.

Pupils must be taught to handle apparatus carefully. Mats must at all times be carried, and throwing of wands, dumbbells and dubs into the receptacles must not be tolerated. Well prepared remarks on this subject, at opportune moments will have a wholesome civic influence on our pupils.

Playing of games, exercising on apparatus and dancing after school should be encouraged.

The Lesson:

a.	Running and dancing, should always make up the first unit of a lesson. Tactic exercises, ranging from those of the single rank to exercises of the dosed column and divided order may be developed in the course of the year.

Using portable apparatus, jumping apparatus as obstacles in running offers amusement to the pupils without lessoning the wholesome effect of the exercises.

The dancing of girls should not be confined to the exercises of the rank and of the column of couples; exercises in open order and in circle formation should be given a prominent place, preferably as intermediate exercises. The fundamental forms of dancing (gallop, polka, and rocking step) with and without suitable arms, trunk and head exercises, should be taught in the first semester. Supplementary forms may be added if the time permits. In order to save time, particularly in Lessons 1, 3 and 5, the first two units may frequently be combined by interspersing free exercises (calisthenics) between the marching, running and dancing in single rank. This method will on such days eliminate the open order formation.

b.	The second unit of each lesson consists of free exercises with or without hand apparatus but always including corrective forms. Exercises with hand apparatus should be taken alternately with single free exercises. Each type of work should, however, be taken several lessons in succes-
$16

8ion, for the purpose of developing a series of exercises (subject or theme.)

In wand and club exercises, forms which correspond to the shape* xA the apparatus, such as striking combined with suitable leg, trunk and neck exercises, should not be neglected.

Mixed classes, that have pupils of various degrees of experience; may be divided for exercises with the club. Free exercises with and without hand apparatus should always be taken in the principal directions, forward, sideward and backward, the backward circling with the dub is particularly valuable.

c.	The third unit of each lesson is made up of exercises on apparatus suitable for hanging, supporting and vaulting, as well as track and field work and games.

The members of each school class should be kept together for physical training, if possible. In this case dass work on apparatus is the preferable method of teaching freshmen.

In the higher classes, when the difference in the physical ability of the members becomes more evident, team or squad work may be introduced. A squad should not have more than eight members. Squad work necessitates competent leaders, and such leaders should be trained. To be a team-leader must be an honor. Endeavor to create this spirit. In the teaching of girls particular attention must be given to those forms of exercises that will strengthen the abdominal walls. Good form in all the work must be at all times demanded. Careful analysis of exercises and proper progression will enable the teacher to obtain this end.

Class Aims for Girls.

1.	To stand and walk correctly; to run three mintues; to execute by direction the common marching tactics and essential free exercises with and without the wand and club, as well as the principal dancing steps with combinations.

2.	To jump moderately deep, high and far with good form, the latter from stand; to hurdle over the 20 inch hurdle.

3.	To bend arms when hanging by the hands and standing on toes 4 to 6 times.

4.	To execute in good form squat vault, knee dismount, and front vault on horse placed sidewise.

5.	To climb the pole, rope and rope-ladder.

6.	To balance on a narrow surface and to swing on the see-saw ladder with and without variations.

7.	To throw the basketball and the hurl ball accurately left and right, from overhead and backward.

$. To play games well and with enthusiasm.

9.	To give to physically abnormal children as much comfort and correction through advice, illustration and practical demonstration as is possible in our limited time.

10.	To convey to our pupils through opportune remarks and occasional discussions teachings of civic and hygienic value.

For Boys:

1.	To stand and walk correctly; to run five minutes; to execute by direction the common exercises in marching and the most essential free exercises with and without the wand and dub.

2.	To jump deep, high and far, to vault with pole, hopstep and
817

jump, hurdle and put the shot correctly and with good form; the latter right and left.

Beginners:

a.	To chin themselves, knee swing-up forward and swing-up backward on horizontal bar reach-high.

b.	To climb with and without use of legs.

c.	Simple vaults over buck and horse placed side and lengthwise, over low horizontal bar and over parallel bars from stand, seat and support.

d.	As 7 Class Aims for Girls.

e.	As 8 Class Aims for Girls.

f.	As 9 Class Aims for Girls

g.	As io Class Aims for Girls.

Advanced Pupils:

a.	Horizontal bar jump high: Knee and mill swing-up, up-swing backward and forward and kipp from swinging in hang.

b.	Parallel bars:	Vaults with and without turns from side and cross

stand, from swing in support and from kipp from upper arm hang. Swinging one leg over end of bars forward and backward, rolling forward and backward; shoulderstand.

c.	Horse sidewise: Vaults with and without turns from running start stand, support and free support. Circling of one or both legs, with and without turns to seat or support. Head and hand spring.

d.	Horset lengthwise:	Rear,	side	and front vaults; fencer's vault and

straddle vault (one leg) to cross stand sideways. Straddle vault and squat vault forward. Roll forward.

e.	Hand climbing on poles and ropes.

f.	Same as 8 Class Aims for Girls.

g.	Same as 9 Class Aims for Girls.

h.	Same as 10 Class Aims for Girls.

NATIONAL FESTIVAL OF THE AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

List of winners in the different events.

Chicago, June 29—30, July 1—2. 1921.

* NOTE: Following the request of many subscribers to have the lists of winners at the Chicago festival in a convenient form we herewith print them as corrected by the national secretary.

Women’s Competition (Octathlon).

Points

1.	Adeline Gehrig, New York Tumverein..................................73.81

2.	Frita SoQberger, St. Louis Turnverein...............................71.88

8. Roberta Ranek, Philadelphia Tumgemeinde.............................71.70

4. Vera Sehuhneyer, Social Tumverein, Indianapolis.................... 71.42

5.. Ida Leinert, Brooklyn, E. D., Tumverein............................71.20

8. Elsie Hampel, New York Tumverein....................................70.91

7.	Lulu Fromm, Brooklyn, E. D., Tumverein.........>....................70.31

8.	Florence. Paeasler, Philadelphia Tumgemeinde....................... 70.18

Digitized by CjOOQle
Points

9.	Bertha Christophel, Deutschamerikanischer Tumverein, New York....70.04

10.	Evelyn Cornell, Social Tumverein, Indianapolis....................69.83

11.	Esther Hoebner, Dayton Turngemeinde...............................69.50

12.	Lillie Schneidenbach, Chicago Turngemeinde........................69.10

13.	Anna Steffen, New York Tumverein..................................68.97

14.	Ethel Wonner, Social Tumverein, Portland, Ore.....................68.37

16.	Adele Hampel, New York Tumverein..................................68.35

16.	Lottie Weinert, Deutschamerikanischer Tumverein, New York.........68.30

17.	Gertrude Artelt, Philadelphia Turngemeinde........................68.17

18.	Jeannette Koch, Southwest Tumverein, St. Louis....................68.03

19.	Marie Simon, Vorwaerts Tumverein, Baltimore ......................67.76

20.	Anna Meiners, Brooklyn, E. D., Tumverein..........................67.67

21.	Mae Krebs, Southwest Tumverein, St. Louis, Mo.....................67.48

22.	Sophie Nason, North Cincinnati Gymnasium..........................67.25

23.	Alice Flienke, New York Tumverein.................................67.00

24.	Anna Kaplan, Vorwaerts Tumverein, Chicago.........................66.83

26.	Grace Kreit, Social Tumverein, Detroit............................66.67

26.	Gertrude Duehring, Chicago Turngemeinde...........................66.65

27.	Olivia Mewes, Southwest Tumverein, St. Louis......................66.25

28.	Ernestine Troemmel, Madison Tumverein.............................66.00

29.	May S. Lukert, Philadelphia Turngemeinde..........................65.46

80.	Iona M. Busch, Philadelphia Turngemeinde........................  64.80

81.	Marion Herbster, Philadelphia Turngemeinde........................64.42

82.	Marie Ludascher, Philadelphia Turngemeinde........................64.00

83.	Marie Feldotto, Southwest Tumverein, St. Louis...................63.93

84.	Gretchen Meyei, South Side Turners, Indianapolis.................63.75

85.	Elsie Tischner, Brooklyn, E. D., Tumverein.......................63.67

86.	Lillian Bertelsbeck, Social Turaveiein, Cleveland................63.50

87.	Margarette Reinecke, Eiche Tumverein, Chicago....................63.46

88.	Gladys Goldstaub, Social Tumverein, Portland, Ore................63.30

89.	Emma Braun, Brooklyn, E. D., Tumverein...........................63.18

40.	Elsa Schwarz, Social Tumverein, Indianapolis.....................63.15

41.	Clara Gawer, Social Tumverein, Portland, Ore.....................63.08

42.	Minna Reichelt, Philadelphia Turngemeinde........................62.86

43.	Minnie Kubnick, Bahn Frei Tumverein, Milwaukee...................62.76

44.	Amanda Bullerjahn, Milwaukee Tumverein...........................62.78

45.	Eva Rusenberg, Brooklyn, E. D., Tumverein........................62.40

46.	Amanda Artman, Sheboygan Tumverein...............................62.36

47.	Alma D. Herkert, Philadelphia Turngemeinde.......................62.01

48.	Alice Huth, Lincoln Tumverein, Chicago...........................62.00

49.	Marie Williams, Central Athletic Association, Pittsburgh.........61.91

50.	Emma Sollberger, St. Louis Tumverein............................61 .58

51.	Mary McGettigan, Philadelphia Turngemeinde.......................61.43

Viola Traute, Sheboygan Tumverein..................................61.48

52.	Harriet Kubnick, Bahn Frei Tumverein, Milwaukee...................6141

63. Helen Damkoehler, Milwaukee Tumverein..............................61.26

54.	Anna Furkert, Bahn Frei Tumverein, Milwaukee......................51.25

55.	Lillian Meyer, Brooklyn, E. D. Tumverein..........................61.IT

66. Minerva Stern, Philadelphia Turngemeinde...........................61.16

57. Mable McHugh, Social Tumverein, Indianapolis.......................61.01
819

Points

68.	Winifred Fahs, Aurora Tumverein, Chicago...................60.87

69.	Olga Hammann, Milwaukee, Turnverein........................60.73

60.	Gretchen Stuart, Social Turnverein Chicago.................60.72

61.	Hazel Juhl, Schweizer Turnverein, Chicago..................60.68

62.	Olga Prosko, Social Turnverein, Portland, Ore..............60.66

68. Clara Rose, Brooklyn, E. D. Turnverein......................60.66

64. Renilda Reise, Olympic Turnverein, St. Louis................60.42

66. LouiseYorkey, Philadelphia Turngemeinde.....................60.13

Alvina Liebmann, Vorwaerts Turnverein, Baltimore.............60.13

66. Gertrude Tegetmeier, Mt. Vernon Turnverein..................60.00

SOCIETY COMPETITION

SOCIETY COMPETITION 32. Tournament of the American Gymnastic Union.

First Group—Societies of 400 Members and Over.

Concordia (Wmnastic Society, St. Louis, Mo. ...	9.76	IS5	56	11	T51	3			185.76	1
Turngemeinde, Philadelphia, Pa		9.80	77	14	11	3		5	2	121.80	2
Turngemeinde, Chicago, 111. ... *		9.50	17	8	11				11	56.50	3
Germania Tumverein, Los Angeles, Cal		8.55	21	10	.,			i	,,	40.66	4
Tower Grove Gymnastic Soc. St. Louis, Mo.	9.05	13		11	1			5	39.06	5
Tumverein, Milwaukee, Wis		9.25	10	*4	7		5	3	,,	38.25	6
Social Tumverein, Detroit, Mich		7.75	18	..	7				3	36.75	7
Turngemeinde, Louisville, Ky. ...	7.50	17		11					36.60	8
North Cincinnati Gymnasium, Cincinnati, O. ..	8.85	10		11				4	33.86	9
Syracuse, N. Y., Tumverein		8.95	12		10					30.95	10
Lawrence, Mass., Tumverein .. ....	8.60	5	6	9					28.60	11
Turngemeinde, Davenport, Iowa 		7.35		7	9				4	27.36	12
Buffalo, N. Y., Turnverein 		8.20	io	7						26.20	13
Brooklyn, E. D., Tumverein, Brooklyn, N. Y.	8.05	7		9					24.06	14
Passaic, N. J., Tumverein		9.30	10	3						22.30	16
Social Tumverein, Portland, Ore.	9.60	3		7					19.60	16
McKeesport, Pa., Turnverein 		7.90			9.		1			17.90	17
St. Louis Tumverein		8.00								9.00	18

Second Group—Societies with Membership from 220 to 400.

Aiew York Tumverein		<T3ff	44	3	11				67.30	"T
Lincoln Tumverein, Chicago, III		9.30	32	2	7	1	3 S	\ . .	57.30	2
Social Tumverein, Indianapolis, Ind		8.80	24	1	13			3	49.80	3
Social Tumverein, Cleveland, Ohio		7.80	17	9		5			38.80	4
Southwest Gymnastic Socity, St. Louis, Mo		8.50	15		9	3			35.50	5
Vorwaerts Tumverein, Brooklyn, N. Y		9.00	15		9		i		34.00	6
Social Tumverein, Chicago, 111		7.80	8		9		3	3	30.80	7
Central Athletic Association, Pittsburgh, Pa. ...	8.55	10			1	51		29.55	8
North St. Louis Turnverein		9.50	18				. 1	l ;;	28.50	9
Social Turnverein, Kansas City, Mo		9.30	10		8			i	28.30	10
Schenectady, N. Y., Tumverein		8.80	10	2	7				1 27.80	11
Turngemeinde, Dayton, Ohio	 		9.30	7	2	9				27.30	12
Northwest Davenport Tumverein		7.50	3	4					14.50	13
Germania Turn vert in Vorwaerts, Cleveland	6.50		3			’I		9.50	14
Central Turaverem, Braddock, Pa.		6.70					.1		6.90	15

Digitized by (^.ooQle
Third Group—Societies with Membership from ISO to 220.

Name of Soceity	*1  ll  ■8  8«  is  f-b	Decathlon	Pentathlon	Model Exercises RpIrv Rare	I -  ! Bf  > 9  \i	Volley Ball	Special Athletics 1	3  £  S,  i	t
Elche Turnverein, Chicago, 111		9.50	33	5	ni	5	6		68.56	1
Vorwaerts Turnverein, Chicago, 111		9.00	10	3	9	5		10	46.00	2
South Side Turners, Indianapolis, Ind		6.83	25	1	9:	1 .			43.83	3
Deutscher Arbeiterturnverein, Roxbury, Mass.	8.83	10	3	7!	I		3	34.83	4
Gymn. Assn, of the South Side, Milwaukee, Wis.	4.83	20	1	7				32.83	5
Rochester, N. Y. Turnverein		9.00	22			. 1			32.00	6
Central Turnverein, Chicago, 111		7.83	5		11	5	3		31.83	7
Mt. Vernon, N. Y., Turnverein		7.50	15		9				31.50	8
Vorwaerts Turnverein, Fort Wayne, Ind.	9.00	10		9				28.00	9
Olympic Turnverein, St. Louis, Mo. . 		8.00	10						18.00	10
Madison, Wis. Turnverein		7.83	10						17.83	11
St. Paul, Minn., Turnverein		6.33			7				13.33	12
Concordia-Germania Turnv., Moline, 111.	5.83			7			i	12.83	13
East Pittsburgh, Pa., Turnverein 		8.50							9.50	14
Denver Turnverein		9.50							9.50	14
Jeannette, Pa., Turnverein		5.17							5.17	15

Fourth Group—Societies with Membership of 150 or Undor.

Aurora Turnverein, Chicago, 111		7.67	5	1	T	3	5	1	3	32.67	1
Bahn Frei Turnverein, Milwaukee, Wis.		8.75	5		7	5	3	3		31.75	2
Birmingham Turnverein, Pittsburgh, Pa. 		9.29	7		11			.		27.29	3
Schweizer Turnverein, Chicago, 111		8.13	5		11				2	26.13	4
Schiller Turnverein, St. Louis, Mo		7.43	6	i	9					23.43	5
New Ulm, Minn., Turnverein		8.80			10					18.80	6
Deutschamerikanischer Turnverein, New York .	5.77		3	7					16.77	7
Highland, 111., Turnverein		7.70						5		12.70	
Columbia Turnverein, Philadelphia, Pa.	7.00	5							12.00	
Deutscher Turnverein, Grand Rapids, Mich		8.00								8.00	10
Leavenworth, Kansas, Turnverein		8.00								8.00	
Sheboygan, Wis., Turnverein		7.57								7.67	11

Decathlon and Pentathlon

e  Z	Name	Society	1  3  s  a  <	Track and Field	I  “IWI	1	a  0  • 3 a  1	1
1	Weissmueller, Jos.	Louisville Turngemeinde...	44.78	23.45	73.23	28		
2	Schoening, Edw.	Louisville Turngemeinde...	49.17	32.03	76.20	16		
15	Meyer, Reinhardt	Syracuse Turnverein 		48.26	26.30	74.56	26		
16	Krimmel, Paul	Syracuse Turnverein		56.14	37.94	90.92	1		
30	Kuehn, Rudolph	Lawrence, Mass., Turnv....	42.14	29.89	72.03	31	41.93	10
35	Dick, Otto, Jr.	Lawrence, Mass., Turnv. . ..					39.95	14
67	Wiemers, John	Milwaukee Turnverein ....					37.91	22
70	Mayer, Paul	Milwaukee Turnverein ....					35.28	34
95	Koumar, Chas.	Brooklyn, E. D. ,Turnverein	45.67	25.48	71.15	35		
96	Walter, Joseph	Brooklyn, E. D., Turnverein	41.68	33.75	76.33	19		
105	Pollitz, Harold	Davenport Turngemeinde					88.15	21

Digitized by
l(fr I Walkman, Grover 180 Soellner, Alfred

136	Wandeier, Max 186 Ludaacher, Wm.

137	Mais, John 188 Fleck, Chaa A.

130 Wolfram, Jos. L. 141 Mueller, Oscar 168 Helzel, Edward 164 Greenberg, Max 186 Siebert, Chas.

200	Heusler Fred

201	Jansen John

202	Hitch, Chas.

207 Altenbernd, Rudi 216 Hammett, Harvey 222 Peterson, Albert 226 Eckl, Otto

244 Kuaewitt, Martin 262 Thumser, Walter 299Neis, Adolph 801 Plag, Aug. H.

868 Steffen, Otto

879	Schuetze, Wm. L.

880	Guenther, Eugene 426 Rottmann, Kurt

426	Peitsch, Hugo

427	Bissinger, John 429 Richter, Carl 481 Zink, Adolph 468 Hartmann, Wm. 464 Hell, Edward 466 Huettenrsuch, C 478 Hein, Carl

484 Roth, Fred 486 Sollinger, Clifford 616 Seelos, George 681 Hoerschke, Wm. 588 Moll, Norman 642 Click, Wilbur

602	Wurth, Henry

603	Huber, Hermann 620 Meyer, Ralph 626 Hafi, Fred W.

645 Koeter, Jack

660	Mewes, Henry

661	Rodenheiser, Geo. 663 Graeb, Paul Max 701 Roob, Adolph 706 Thompson, Racine 746 Buase, Emanuel 764 Loetterle, Frank 776 Kraft, Jacob H.

778	Marks, Russel W.

779	Schwind, Fred 782 Arend, Christ

788 Christoffersen, Sig. 832 Mathei, W. 898Simmen, Oscar N. 904 Carlson, Frank 911 Kramer, Wm. J. 1004 De Buck, Charles

Bavenport Turngemeinde .

Passaic Turnverein........

Philadelphia Turngemeinde Philadelphia Turngemeinde. Philadelphia Turngemeinde. Philadelphia Turngemeinde. Philadelphia Turngemeinde. Philadelphia Turngemeinde.

Chicago Turngememde.......

Chicago Turngemeinde _____

Chicago Turngemeinde _____

Concordia Tv., St. Louis ... Concordia Tv., St. Louis ... Concordia Tv., St. Louis ... Concordia Tv., St. Louis ... Concordia Tv., St. Louis ... Concordia Tv., St. Louis ... Concordia Tv., St. Louis1... Concordia Tv., St. Louis ... Concordia Tv., St. Louis'... Tower Grove G. S., St. Louis Tower Grove G. S., St. Louis Buffalo, N. Y: Turnverein... Germania Tv., Los Angeles. Germania Tv., Los Angeles .

New York Turnverein.......

New York Turnverein]......

New York Turnverein.......

New York Turnverein.......

New York Turnverein ......

Social Turnverein, Chicago.. Social Turnverein, Chicago.. Social Turnverein, Chicago.. Social Tumv., Cleveland ... Social Tumv., Cleveland ... Social Tumv., Cleveland ... Lincoln Tumv., Chicago ... Lincoln Tumv., Chicago ...

Dayton Turngemeinde.......

Dayton Turngemeinde.......

' Schenectady Turnverein___

Schenectady Turnverein ... Northwest Davenport Tv... Social Tv., Indianapolis .... Social Tv., Indianapolis .... Southwest St. Louis Tumv.. Southwest St Louis Tumv.. Southwest St. Louis Tumv.. Eiche Turnverein, Chicago..

Eiche Tumv., Chicago......

So. Side Gym. Assn., Mil...

Rochester Turnverein .....

Vorwfirts Tumv., Chicago .. Vorwfirts Tumv., Chicago .. Vorwfirts Tumv., Chicago... Vorwaerts Tumv., Chicago . Vorwaerts Tumv., Chicago . D. Arbeiterturnv., Roxbury. Birmingham Tv:, Pittsburgh Deutscnamer. Tv., N. Y. ... Monongahela, Pa;Turaverein Schiller Tumv., St. Louis . ..

53.39

43.98

52.25

25.00

42.42

47.66

44.86

51.47

52.16

43.60

55.30 55.34 54.66 46.16

49.31 44.95 43.10

45.32 44.71

47.02

41.48

48.91

51.49

34.20

36.67

27.67 31.90 26.48

32.45

26.99

28.78

23.16

24.83

87.69

79.66

79.92

56.90

68.90

80.00

71.84

33.73

27.85

22.36

28.61

26.50

29.20

23.48

26.67

28.10

26.65

25.99

30.44

27.10

60.30 24.75

36.62

46.71

50.38

44.47

57.15

48.79

47.01

45.28

48.68

45.13

48.02

41.02 43.31

46.86

47.25

28.67

29.63

34.35

26.35

80.26

75.32

68.33

80.75

69.33

71.27

mm

40.96

14 44.61 12

36.15 28 35.5032 39.40 ] 38.95]

42

33.21

30.78

26.10

29.69

25.98

37.00

25.55

28.80

27.60

28.49

22.50

78.69

75.06

66.09

75.24

84.73

70.82

90.36

79.57

73.11

74.97

74.66

82.13

73.57

69.82

70.91

75.35

69.75

83.91 81.84 83.86 69.64 75.98 73.05 30 69.75 71.81 75.16

38.16 21

42.35

41.67

46.25

35.55

46.72

36.85

43.18

44.25

43.60

38.36

36.85

43.50

38.24

35.99

37.20

39.75

36.15

44.91

36.18

36.89

35.31

39.55

40i92

36.75

12

17

18

11

2

31

1

25

8

6

6

19

25

7

20

29

23

15

28

3

27

24

33

16

is

30
822

THE HEALTH LIFT AS I HAVE KNOWN IT

BY J. P. MCCASKEY, LANCASTER, PA.

My grandfather, a man of Scotch descent, had seven grandsons, each the oldest son, who bore his full name. I was one of them, and physically the weakest of them all. When my aunts—thoughtless mothers of live babes—would carelessly ask, “Margaret, what are you ever going to do with that boy?”—as my mother once told me they would sometimes do—my good mother’s heart was very sore, and it seemed to her almost better that I should die than grow up such a weakling. She little thought her child would live to be forty or eighty, and that by the time he was thirty he would be one of the strongest men in his locality, lifting a thousand pounds of cast iron almost daily, and thinking little of it as a feat of strength.

Her loving care by day and by night, and her constant prayer for her child—as I have always thought since I have been'thinking at all— were answered in health and vigor to the boy of so little promise in those early days.

But he had come of strong ancestry in a dozen lines and soon this began to manifest itself. At three or four years of age my health was good; at five I was at school by the woods; in the academy at eleven, wrestling, climbing, running, swimming, playing “shinny” and corner ball, then through secondary and high school, an average boy among boys. I tried clerking in a bank, the bank broke; then reading law, but money was scarce and in a few months I was teaching in the boys* high school of Lancaster. After two years in the school I resigned in 1857, meaning to go to California, but went into a printing office instead. At the end of that year my old position was vacant in the high school, and I was glad to go back to it, and complete my half century there as a teacher.

I	had been interested in music and athletics, but the latter took too much time in the gymnasium.

As the years passed, I read of Dr. George B. Winship, a graduate*of Harvard, who had done much in the gradual development of strength by lifting heavy weights. I had practiced with heavy bars of iron until I could carry a weight about equal to a barrel of flour. But that was not what I wanted, and I was feeling my way. So I went to Boston to se two things: The Bunker Hill Monument, and the apparatus of Dr. Win-ship.

I	soon found the Monument, but would have had no knowledge of the points of the compass, after so many turns on the way, if it had not been for the letters over the openings at the top—and these of course were in the wrong places. It was a day of unusual experiences, one of the most profitable of my life.

I	found Dr. Winship, a physician in regular practice, in his office

NOTE: Dr. J. P. McCaskey, who has made up every monthly issue of The Pcnnsylavnia School Journal for fifty-five years, and who has had uniformly good health during all these years, attributes this largely to the few minutes per day that he has given to his Health Lift during a large part of his busy life.

Digitized by Google
828

at Roxbury, one of the suburbs of Boston. He was courteous, answered my questions, showed me all his apparatus, and cut a miniature handle from a match,—which I carried for a long time, giving me the exact shape of the grip he had been using for some years. 1 saw the heavy dumb bell he used, nearly 200 pounds, the leather loop into which he put his little finger, and drew himself up until his chin was above the knuckle. We walked down the well-worn path through the weeds to the barn where I saw his weights and chains and collar of hickory wood with heavy pads of India rubber for the protection of the shoulders—and I had a broader view of what lifting means, and a much deeper interest in the subject.

“How far are you going in this?" I asked him, as we came back through the garden.

“I am going to lift three thousand pounds.”

“What's the use? You wouldn't advise me to try to do anything like that?”

“No, if you can lift 800 pounds, you will be strong enough to digest anything you care to eat. Keep at that and you'll be well. But I am going to show that the human body can be trained to stand^uuder a ton and a half.”

I saw him years after in his heavy weight gymnasium on Washington street in Boston, and asked him whether he had “made” his 3,000 pounds. He replied, “No, My heaviest lift was 2,850 pounds, and I will never again lift over 2,000.”

Within a year from that time he died of rheumatism of the heart. Like many another enthusiastic man he strained too hard, and too often.

With the Winship grip, do what I would—and I tried it out faithfully—I could not go above 500 to 600 pounds, and retain my hold. My fingers were not strong enough and did not give promise of growing much stronger.

In 1873 I stopped with an old friend in Chicago for three days on the way to Duluth and the trip down through the Great Lakes. He drove me all over that part of the city which three weeks later went down in the great fire. He told me of his recent ill health and how he had rallied through the Dr. Riley Health Lift, took me to see it and try it. Then I found just the handles I wanted to throw the weight off the fingers and into the palm of the hand. I saw at once the new device would enable me to hold every pound I could lift.

He got for me, from Dr. Riley, a pair of these handles. Thanks to Wm. A. Montgomery, then a lawyer of that great city, and long since gone beyond; a chum of happy school boy days, and one of the finest gentlemen I have ever known, for his little gift of priceless value. Why priceless? Because the most important work I have been permitted to do has, I think, been on The Pennsylvania School Journal. For fifty-five years I have made up The Journal month by month, twelve numbers to the year, six hundred and sixty in all from first to last, and my health has all the while been such that 1 could do this, and much other work besides, with comparative ease and enjoyment. Without the Lift and the tonstant reserve of strength which it has afforded I do not think I could have done it.

Digitized by L.ooQle
824

When I reached home I consulted a good foundryman, Mr. Wm. Diller, and we worked out a Lift which, I think, is even better than that of Dr. Riley. Instead of 600 pounds, we made it 1,200 pounds. We broke the long rods into two parts, set the handles into the long hooks that took the heavy screw eyes connecting with the cylinder of weights below the table, made up of twenty-one disks of cast iron weighing fifty pounds each. These are about twenty inches in diameter and an inch in thickness. Through the middle of this cylinder of disks is a square wrought iron post with holes corresponding to the slot holes in the underside of the disks. So we shifted the slide and changed the weight in a moment.

The' pull was always made at full breath, with even poise, every muscle of your five hundred at utmost tension. The exhilaration of the effort as you stand under the heavy weight is surprising—aye, glorious! For twenty-five or thirty years I was “good for” a thousand pounds. Since I have been lifting I have been in excellent health and always at work. It is now fifteen years since I have been on the lifting table, but my health has all the while been good. I know of no other kind of exercise that requires so little time and gives so good results.

For me there has been no exercise like lifting—careful, judicious lifting, at regular intervals, of solid iron, so arranged that at any moment I could have in my hands any weight desired that was within the limit of my strength—no springs, no guessing, but dead weight in sure figures. There is no physical asset like health, and with every muscle so developed by careful and frequent strain of tension as to have grown firm and hard and strong, health is assured to the average man. The Health Lift, judiciously used, means steady increase of strength, with less effort, in less time, with less risk of exhaustion, than any other form of athletic exercise known to me, and I have tried most of those in popular favor.

Not foot ball, nor base ball, nor corner ball, nor basket ball, nor any other kind of ball attractive and enjoyable as any of these may be; not rowing, nor swimming, nor running—all good when not overdone—can match my health lift for me. If I had life to live over again I would be glad to live it on the same lines of Church and Home and School; of literature and music, art and the drama. Health and strength I would try to assure by keeping my Health Lift near at hand in a favorite corner, its intrinsic value greater than that of the richest bank in the country.

For what is money when weighed against the blessing of health and vigor? How precious these things are we know only when they are lost.

A SIMPLE TIMING DEVICE

BV WILLIAM A. STECHER.

At the request of a number of readers of Mind and Body who saw the timing plan that was operated at the Chicago Turnfest we present the following:

Running 100 yards was one of the ten events that each man taking part in the decathlon had to perform. There were over eleven hundred men. The time at our disposal for running off a group of four events

Digitized by VjOOQle
825

was 3 hours. There could be no thought of preliminary, semi-final and final races, as the exact time of each participant had to be found in order to give him a definite number of points for his performance. It was impossible to have many tracks, as four events were going on at the same time. That is while one-fourth of the men were running, one-fourth were putting the shot, another fourth were throwing the hurl ball, while the last fourth were performing the hop, step and jump.

A method, therefore, had to be devised that would allow the timing of each man and that would be sure to give the results needed in

RELI.AY RACES, 32ND NATIONAL FESTIVAL A. G. U., CHICAGO, JUNE 2<} TO JULY 5, I92I.

CROSS LINES INDICATE ONE-FIFTH SECOND EACH.

the specified time. Several months preceding the festival Mr. Rath at the Normal College of the A. G. U. at Indianapolis and several other members of the technical committee made some experiments, and based upon the results obtained there it was decided to put ten cross lines on the ground before the finish, as follows:	The	five	lines nearest the finish

were placed 5 feet apart. That is the cross line nearest the finish was 295 feet from the start, the second was 290 feet, the third was 285 feet, the fourth was 280 feet and the fifth was 275 feet. The next five lines were 6 feet apart, that is 269, 263, 2^7, 2^1 and 245 feet from the start.

Beginning with the cross line nearest the finish these lines had stakes driven at the sides upon which were the numbers 1 to 10. Stationed at

Digitized by LjOOQle
826

the finish were 3 timers. Stationed along the sides were the judges. Definite judges picked the first man, another group picked the second man, another group the third.

When the first man crossed the finish a judge struck a sharp blow with a hammer upon a gong. The time of this man was determined by the 3 timers. When they heard the gong each group of judges saw where their man was at that moment. If he was on or beyond the cross line numbered 1, one-fifth of a second was added to the official time given the first man. If he had crossed the third line and had not reached the second, three-fifths of a second was added for his time. If he had crossed the eighth line, eight fifths were added, etc.

The plan worked smoothly and to every person's satisfaction, although at first many judges, as well as contestants, were certain that it would fail.

The last day of the festival the plan was operated with the relay teams, a picture of which we show. More crosslines were used here, as the differences in time with teams of six men, each running ico yards, were greater. On account of limited space these races were run as shuttle races (to and fro). Here also the time of each one of more than 60 teams was taken, and there were no protests.

Where there are many contestants and limited time the plan is a good one. For boys and for girls a few experiments will show how far on an average they run in one-fifth of a second, and how far, therefore, the cross lines should be from one another.

AN UNIQUE FIELD DAY

BY EDNAH FARRIER.

A unique sort of field day which was held recently by all the girls organizations of an eastern city is freighted with suggestions for girls' and boys’ athletics in smaller towns. The idea was conceived of patterning the day and its events after the ancient tournaments and jousts of King Arthur's time. The contests were known as “free and friendly jousts," and the tournament was presided over by the Archbishop of Fair Play. In his court were Sir Good-fellowship, Sir Friendly-feeling, Good Friar Get-together and many other knights and esquires. In the Court of Honor the knights were the representatives of the different girls* organizations, all in costume. There were also heralds, buglers and retainers.

The setting was ideal as the field day was held on the grounds of an institute the buildings of which are medieval in architecture and very beautiful. The field where the tournament took place was large enough so that it was possible to hold the entire day’s program in one large area. The Court of Honor was built around a tree commanding a view of the whole field and at the same time affording a shady and delightful spot.

A grand procession opened the tournament. This was led by the Archbishop of Fair Play and his acolytes followed by the entire assemblage of about 500 young girls and women. The representative of each organization marched in costume at the head of her group with pennants flying. The long procession marching around the field made

Digitized by CjOOQle
Courtesy of Community Service

THE DAYS OF MERR1E ENGLAND WERE REVIVED IN ARCHERY CONTESTS BETWEEN THE VARIOUS GIRLS CLl'BS.

A SCARLET-ROBED ANNOUNCER GAVE INFORMATION ABOUT EACH EVENT. THE TOURNAMENT INCLUDED ALL KINDS OK TESTS OF ATHLETIC PROWESS.

Digitized by U.ooQle
828

a wonderful sight each representative finally taking her place in the Court of Honor.

Each event was announced by a fanfare of trumpets and the contestants dashed on the field in true medieval fashion. Other events went on in various parts of the field at the same time. There were games and contests, strolling story-tellers in costume. The formal program consisted of interpretative and folk dancing by different groups. The Girl Scouts gave exhibitions of drill and signal service and the program ended with a beautiful ceremonial given by the Camp Fire Girls, and an enthusiastic community sing. Aside from the chances it offered to demonstrate good fellowship and fair play the day was replete not only with the spirit of older days but with the true community spirit of today.

HOW F&R TO 00 IN RECIRCULATING AIK

Data Showing Where Needed Savings Can be Made in Reducing Superfluous Ventilation.

BY CHARLES L. HUBBARD.

Suppose, in a large manufacturing establishment the owners had adopted the practice of furnishing a midday meal for their employees for a nominal sum, based upon the cost of food actually consumed, plus a small margin of profit. Let us assume, for purposes of illustration that in order to simplify matters and reduce the cost of service, the food was placed upon the belt of a mechanical conveyor passing through the serving room, and from this each person took a sufficient amount to supply his own needs, while any food remaining upon the conveyor at the end of its run was dumped into an incinerator or disposed of in some similar manner.

11 With an arrangement of this kind it is safe to say that if the management saw 25% to 50% of the food placed on the conveyor going to waste* very little time would elapse before the supply would be cut down to a point where it exceeded the requirements by only a slight margin.

Now a condition similar to the foregoing is constantly taking place in many large manufacturing plants without discovery, simply because the waste is not visible, as in the case just described. This condition is excessive ventilation, resulting in a continuous stream of pure, warm air passing outboard to the atmosphere, while fuel is being constantly fed into the heaters in large quantities to replace this waste.

There is no doubt that the number of under-ventilated industrial buildings throughout the country greatly exceeds those which are over ventilated, and, furthermore, lack of proper ventilation is harmful, while too much fresh air is harmless, except for the cost of fuel required to produce it. However, fan blast heating systems have been installed extensively in new buildings during recent years and there has been a more or less general impression that if a certain amount of fresh air is desirable, an abundance must be better and no doubt many systems have been installed and operated in accordance with this idea.

WHEN OVER-VENTILATION IS OF SLIGHT IMPORTANCE.

When there is an excess of exhaust steam which would otherwise go

Digitized by CjOOQle
829

to waste, over-ventilation is of slight importance, and also, in the past, when the cost of fuel was only a fraction of that at the present time, it was not necessary to gauge so carefully the volume of fresh air supplied to that actually required by the operatives.

POSSIBILITIES or SAVING rUEL THROUGH RECIRCULATION.

The purpose of the present article is to bring to the attention o heating and ventilating engineers and, through them, the attention of plant managers, to the possibilities of saving fuel through circulation, as a general proposition, and to show how the saving may be approximated in a given plant. Suggestions will also be included for such changes as are usually necessary, either in operation or installation, to bring about the desired results.

The first step is to impress upon the plant owner or manager the amount of fuel wasted from over-ventilation, in cases where the system is operating under conditions which are considered standard practice, both as regards comfort of the operatives and economy of operation. In order to bring this out more clearly, let us make a few calculations i n connection with two or three different types of buildings in which warm air is used for heating.

CONDITIONS IN A MEDIUM SIZED DWELLING.

Take, for example, a medium-size dwelling heated with a warm air-furnace. An average 8-room building of this type, of wooden construction, will have an estimated heat loss by leakage and transmission of about

100.000	B. T. U. per hour in zero weather. In the best modern practice of warm-air furnace heating, this will be warmed by introducing fresh outside air at a maximum temperature of about 130° F. in the coldest weather. The heat delivered to a building by a furnace may be considered as being made up of two parts, that required to raise the temperature of the outside air to 70°, the normal temperature of the room, and an additional amount sufficient to replace that lost by leakage and transmission.

If the air is delivered at a temperature of 130° when it is zero outside, then 70-130 of the heat given to the entering air may be considered as making up the first part mentioned above, leaving 60-130 available for purely warming purposes. From this it is evident that the total heat supplied to the entering air must be equal to 1 4- 60-130 = 2.1 times that lost by leakage and transmission.

Applying this to the case under consideration, we have a total of

100.000	x 2.1 = 210,000 B. T. U. per hour to be supplied by the furnace under maximum conditions, of which 110,000 B. T. U. are required for warming the outside air to the temperature of the room (ventilation) and 100,000 B. T. U. for offsetting the effects ot leakage and transmission, (heating).

TEN TIMES AS MUCH VENTILATION AS NECESSARY.

Let us next compute the air volume necessary to bring in this quantity of heat and see how it compares with that actually required for good ventilation. Air entering at 130° and cooling to 70° gives out (130—70

4-	55 =» 1.1 B. T. U. per cubic foot. Hence, to give out 100,000 B. T. U will require 100,000-1.1 = 90,000 cu. ft. of air per hour, in round numbers. As the standard commonly accepted for good ventilation is 1800 cu. ft. per occupant per hour, we should have, in the present case, an air supply

Digitized by v^ooQle
830

sufficient for 90,000-1800 = 50 people. The average number of occupants for a house of this size would probably not exceed five people, so that ten times as much ventilation is provided as is actually required.

AMOUNT OF COAL WASTED.

To go still further and find how much coal is wasted, let us assume a heating season of 220 days with an average outside temperature of

F., which is commonly taken for conditions in New England and similar locations. If 110,000 B. T. U. are required with a difference of 70° between the inside and outside temperature, then only one-half that, or

55,000	B. T. U. will be required for a difference of 350.

If we assume the house to be heated to 70° during 15 hours each day, then the heat units required per season for ventilation will be 15 x 220 x 55,000 = 181,500,000 B. T. U. Taking the thermal value of x lb. of coal as 13,000 B. T. U., and assuming an average furnace efficiency of 5°%> ^ will require 181,500,000- (13,000 x 0.05) = 27,920 lbs of coal, or practically 14 tons.

If the furnace, in this case, should be equipped with a return register, and the air be recirculated within the house, theoretically the above amount of coal would be saved annually, and, actually, an amount approaching this would be saved if it were customary to heat and ventilate the entire house for the period of time assumed. As regards the matter of ventilation, it is safe to assume one complete change of air per hour by leakage alone in the average well-built house which, in the present case, would amount to about 16,000 cu. ft. per hour, or enough for nine people on a basis of 188 cu. ft. each, which is more than enough for any family which would be likely to occupy a house of this size.—“Heating and Van-(Hating Magazine.”

A CHRISTMAS DREAM, A PANTOMIMIC PLAYLET

(Concluded from November)

(The following drill was part of the Christmas playlet by Jos. Weiss-mueller, published last month.)

12.	Herald: “If dreams could come true,

It would be very thrilling To be captain of soldiers With marching and drilling,

And the boy as he sleeps,

Can see plain as day,

Himself as a hero,

Whom all must obey.”

Tin Soldiers.

Music: Any good March.

A Marching drill for 16 boys, in ranks of four. See Fig. I.

.!Ar *tt hd M

1.	Ranks are numbered 1-2-3-4.

Boys are lined up in a flank line.

Digitized by Lj ooQle
831

Counts.

March forward 12 steps and face left, towards audience in 4

steps in place ....................................................

March 8 steps forward; this should bring them to middle of stage,

march 8 steps in place ............................................

2. Ranks No. 3 and No. 4 face right about on the 5th (See Fig. II.)

16-

16

4

11.

1. Ranks No. 2 and No. 3 execute a whole wheel left. Ranks No. 1 and No. 4 execute a whole wheel right. For the 1st 4 steps see Fig. Ill (a).

For the next 4 steps see Fig. Ill (b).

For the next 4 steps see Fig. Ill (c).



'rto

>%

V*





The next 4 steps bring them back in same position as Fig. II.5...	16

2. Ranks No. 1 and No. 2, No. 3 and No. 4 do a wheel left.... 8

Swing arms foreupward..............................................

Lower trunk forward 3-4, return 5-8 .................................. 8

16

3. Repeat (1) of part II .................................... 16

Repeat (2) of part II ....................................... 16

3*

4. Repeat ail twice more ..........................................£64

Completing a full wheel, 1. e.y coming back to starting^position. SeelFig. II.

III.

1. Ranks No. 2 and No. 3, march 8 steps in place................... [9



1

Digitized by OooQle
832

Ranks No. I and No. 4 do # wheel left, and take 4 steps forward, passing in'front of ranks 2 and 3, forming a star.....................

G_

,0

G

VirT:*0

1

Vl>/TF^3nE«)Gy

K

0





0

FjjETrt) *

2.	Do star wheel left................................................ 16

3.	Do full wheel right. Fig. VI ..................................... 16

4.	Each rank takes 4 steps forward. Fig. VII (a) ..................... 4

yi wheel right, see Fig. VII (b) ...................................... B

12

Each rank take 8 steps forward..........•.............................. •

yi wheel right......................................................... •

And four steps forward, back to original place ........................ 4

Repeat last 64 counts.

THE PSYCHOLOGICAL MOMENT IN PHYSICAL TRAINING

HENRY S. CURTIS, OBERLIN, OHIO.

There has never been a moment like the present in physical training, when the dreams of half a century seem immediately possible.

From the draft and the experience of the Army, and the demand that our young men shall be fit to serve, if the country needs them, there has come a great new interest in health and physical training. During the last four years twenty states have passed laws which have put physical training and health teaching definitely into the program of the public schools, and now there is an active interest in practically every state where no such step has thus far been taken.

The National Educational Association in its meeting at Salt Lake last summer, passed resolutions endorsing this campaign, and calling upon the National Government to furnish the funds.

The Republican Party has as one of the planks in its platform, the furnishing of physical training to every child in the public schools of America, and President Harding in several of his campaign speeches

Digitized by L.ooQle
888

referred to this measure with approval The Republican Party has such a majority in both the House and Senate that it can have no excuse for not carrying out its pledges to the people, and it seems fairly certaia that some measure providing aid from the National Treasury will be passed.

There stand at the present time upon the calendar of the House and the Senate, two bills, both of which may be considered as administration bills. One of these is the Smith-Towner bill creating a National Department of Education. In this bill there is provision of >20,000,000 for furnishing universal physical training. The other bill is the Fess-Capper bill, which would provide for 1921 >10,000,000 and after that >1.00 for each child in the public schools where the communities are furnishing direction and the necessary facilities for gymnastics, play and games.

With such large assistance from the National Government in the offing and with the precedent of the twenty states which have already made physical training compulsory, and the general feeling of the need of something of this sort, throughout the country, it should not be over difficult to get a satisfactory bill through any State Legislature.

If an effective system is to be established, however, sentiment must be created for it among the people throughout the country, though there never was a time before when the public was so ready, or when the response was likely to be so good. But the crux of the situation is the Normal schools. If play and physical training are to come into the pro* gram, all normal students and summer students must receive some training in the principles and objects involved, and in the games which must furnish the larger part of this training. A strong course with abundant opportunity to practice with the students in the training school should be introduced into each normal, with especially strong courses in all summer schools, that the older teachers may get the point of view, and at least some slight preparation to carry out the new requirements.

It is to be feared that the work in physical training that is now being given in normal schools is not of a sort to be a real preparation to the teachers to organize this work with their students, or to give them pleasure in the type of play which will be found on the school yards. For most of the normal schools are putting the play emphasis for women on basket ball, hockey and tennis, none of which are found on the yards of most elementary schools, and which are not suited to any except the strongest children in the seventh and eighth grades. For the men the emphasis is usually on baseball and football and gymnastics, for which there are no facilities at most elemenary schools.

LIVES SIX DAYS IN A SEALED GLASS CASE.

Teachers will be interested in a daring experiment which was recently carried out by a middle-aged British university professor, Joseph Barcroft, F. R. S., reader in physiology at Cambridge University. The test Was made in the interest of aviation and the question involved was whether it would be posible to calculate the quantity of oxygen necessary to an airman at high altitudes. To determine this, Professor Barcroft

Digitized by

Google
834

offered to permit himself to be sealed in an air-tight glass case for a period of six days.

The tase in which Professor Barcroft was shut up for six days was specially erected in a quiet room in the physiological laboratory. It was about 7 ft. high and about io ft. broad. The floor, walls and roofs were made of glass, hermetically sealed, and divided into two compartments— one fitted with a lounge chair and table and the other with a simple bed.

At the foot of the bed was a pedaling apparatus consisting of the frame of a bicycle, from which the front wheel had been removed, and a small black wheel with a frame attached, to enable Professor Barcroft to get some exercise and cause a certain amount of work to be done.

During his six days in this case Professor Barcroft spent his time in work relating to the experiments, in taking exercise on the bicycle and in sleeping. He was kept under observation day and night to insure his personal safety, college students and others taking it in turn to keep watch.

Nitrogen was continually introduced into the chamber and the air became gradually rarer in oxygen until it approximated that at an altitude of 16,000 ft., when Professor Barcroft, who has had experience of mountaineering, experienced considerable inconvenience from sickness and sleeplessness, arid also an indisposition to take any food.

At the close of the experiment some blood was taken from Professor Barcroft’s arm. The oxygen the blood contained was separated and it was found to agree with the expectation of the experiment.

Professor Barcroft confesses to having felt rather shaken up after his release from the glass case, but did not look much the worse for the experience.

The experiment is regarded in England as thoroughly successful and a scientific report of it will be laid before the next meeting of the British Association, in which Professor Barcroft is president of the physiological section.

YSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

strength tests.—E. G. Martin* of Stanford University, who has devised strength tests well suited to determining the extent of muscular impairment in persons, chiefly children, afflicted with infantile paralysis, has lately studied the performance of large numbers of workers, both male and female, under conditions in which something of the effect of external factors could be ascertained. The most obvious of such influences are climatic. It appears that certain days are more favorable to high output than others, and the influences that underlie the differences are such as to effect all workers in a single environment. Martins data suggest that the temperature at which work is carried on is important. There is evidence that persistent exposure to temperature above 30 C. (86 F.)is

* Martin, E. G.: Strength Tests in Industry, Pub. Health Rep. jf; 1895 {Aug. 13) 1920.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
835

unfavorable to strength. Relative humidities between 70 and 80 per cent appear to favor high strength showing. Other climatic influences have not been demonstrated to be operative. Hence they need not be taken into consideration at present in the application of the strength test as a criterion of health. Evidence has been collected to show that the impairment of physique due to exhaustion may be so severe as to require considerable time of rest for recovery to normal strength. There is evidence that the effects of fatigue are persistent, in that they tend to appear on the day following a day of fatigue. Severe fatigue is more likely to show this persistent effect than is mild fatigue. Days of poor physical condition are more likely to be followed by days of fatigue than are days of good condition, or days on which no demonstrable fatigue appear. Incidentally, Martin’s measurements support the thesis that with men, laborious operations tend to develop approximately equal strength among the workers; in other words, there is a “standard” strength for each job. Among women and men alike, demonstrable fatigue is more manifest in weaker workers than in stronger. The most pronounced indications of fatigue are presented in an operation requiring close concentration and carried on in a disagreeable environment.

Current Comment “The Journal Am. Med. Assoc.** Sept. 2$y 1920.

T H L E T I C

EMANUEL HAUG, New York City

■■■ - — — ... — ■ ■ ■'

CHICAGO TRIBUNE PUTS LID DOWN ON BIG LEAGUE NEWS

OF BASEBALL

Declaring that an active doubt existed as to the value of professional baseball in American life, the Chicago Tribune announced on its editorial page that it had curtailed its baseball reports in favor of other sports, particularly amateur games.

“The Tribune is down to about a half column now for games which the home teams play and to a bare statement of vital statistics regarding other clubs,” the announcement said. “That is enough.

“Two or three hours in a bail park do not take anything off the waist line of the spectators or add anything to chest measurement. Professional baseball is a stimulus for boys, but journalism has overfed it with space.

“Amateur sports seldom produce the ability of professional sports, but they produce good citizenry.”

ooLr match over 20 miles.—A cross-country golf match, unique in the annals of the game in South Wales, has just been completed, the players being Mr. D. Rupert Lewis and Mr. W. Raymond Thomas, both well-known figures on Welsh links, says the London Chronicle of November 7.

The course ran over twenty miles, from Radyr, near Cardiff, to Southerndown, on the Glamorgan coast. Doubt had been expressed

— ■■ ■ — A

Digitized by ^.ooQle
836

whether it could be covered in less than 1,200 strokes, one of the conditions being that the rules of golf were to be strictly observed. There were many wagers that at least 1,000 strokes would be necessary.

Messers. Lewis and Thomas won handsomely, doing the course, with alternate strokes, in 608.

Play started on Friday afternoon from the first tee at Radyr in a heavy rainstorm and against a strong wind. The play was comparatively brief, and there were only ninety-five shots. Saturday was a hard day's work. Up to lunch time they played 250 strokes, and when they knocked off they had played 372, and were in the neighborhood of Penlline Castle.

Starting at eight o'clock Sunday morning, they made very good progress, reaching Southerndown about 1:30.

There were, of course, a number of adventures, including visits to two woods and at least one morass.

At one time the players had to wade knee-deep in water to ford a river.

At another they were chased by a bull, and saved themselves by jumping a hedge.

Twenty balls were lost in the twenty miles, and the proper penalty was paid. The distance was covered in sixteen hours, including intervals for refreshments.

GOURDIN HARVARD'S PREMIER ATHLETE.

Negro Track Star Closes College Career With Best Record in Crimson

History.

Edward O. Gourdin, Harvard's negro athlete who set a new world broad jump record of 25 feet 3 inches has closed his college athletic career with an all around record of track and field proficiency surpassing that of any man who ever wore the crimson. His ability in events which he first tried as a freshman is shown in a list of the marks he has made in actual competition. They follow:

100-Yard Dash, 0:09 4-5; 220-Yard Dash, 0:22 1-5; 440-Yard Run, 0:52 1-5; Broad Jump, 25 feet 3 inches; High Jump, 5 feet 9 inches; Running Hop, Step and Jump, 45 feet 3 inches; Javelin Throw, 140 feet; Discus Throw, no feet.

Gourdin would be as much decorated as a hero of many wars if he chose to pin on his breast all the medals he has won in the four years. The Harvard athletic authorities have been unable to get medals struck off as fast as he has earned them. Five gold medals of special die are due him for his successive college record marks in the broad jump, culminating in the world’s record leap of recent date.

CLAIM MADE THAT HOLLAND WAS BIRTHPLACE OF GOLF.

Contrary to the general belief, the claim has recently been advanced that Holland, not Scotland, was the birthplace of golf. One of the most ancient and interesting of the pictures in which the game is portrayed was made at Bruges and is in the tailpiece of the “Book of Hours." The

Digitized by v^.ooQle
837

plilyers are three in number and have only one club apiece, the head of which is steel or steel-covered, and they play with a ball each. The feature which gives the picture a peculiar interest is that all others show the game on ice, the putting being at a stake, while in the “Book of Hours’* the players are putting at a hole in the turf, as in the modern game. It is uncertain at what date the game was introduced into Scotland, but in 1457 its popularity had become so great as to interfere with the more important pursuit of archery.

AMATEUR ATHLETIC UNION BEING PLANNED FOR CHINESE

SCHOOLS.

Those interested in school athletics in China have set in motion plans to organize a Chinese amateur athletic union, along the lines of the amateur athletic union of America. All of the leading educational institutions have been asked to send representatives to attend organization meetings.

While athletics have been growing steadily in popularity as a part of school life in China, up to the present there has been no parent governing body and no organization to which appeals might be made concerning rules and records. It is probable that a Chinese representative on the world Olympic committee will be named, in accordance with an invitation extended some time ago. Plans already are taking form to send a Chinese team to the next Olympic games.

Throughout the City of New York this winter an effort is to be made to interest children who are unfamiliar with such things as daily setting-up exercises or so-called health stunts known and practised among gymnasium groups in settlement clubs and at summer camps.

As a preliminary and for the purpose of familiarizing the various simple exercises it was planned to hold on Saturday, Oct. 8, at 2 P. M., a competition among New York’s youngsters. This will be New York’s first annual health stunt competition.

Through the co-operation of Thomas F. O’Connell, Supervisor of Recreation of the Park Department, Manhattan, and Dr. Leonhard F. Fuld, who is an enthusiastic advocate of well directed exercise as a means to sturdiness in boys and girls, qualifying tryouts for the competition will be held in many parts of Manhattan. One boy and one girl will be selected to represent each particular neighborhood playground. Proficiency in the qualifying exercises will be the test.

Ail the exercises have been prepared by Dr. Fuld. To some of the movements he has given fantastic names. All are easily understood and not difficult to acquire. Teachers of physical training and others having to do with helping out juveniles to become strong and healthy, would like to see a million boys and girls doing daily exercises. A good start will be made following the park competition.

Following are the so-called stunts which have been suggested.

HEALTH STUNTS.

To qualify only one trial allowed; failure in any stunt results in immediate disqualification.

Digitized by VvjOOQle
1.	Knee Salute—Grasp right ankle with left hand behind back and touch right knee to floor, returning to standing position without touching floor with any other part of body.

2.	Sit Up Stand Up—Lie on back fully extended. Placing hands on hips, rise to sitting position keeping hands on hips and, touching floor only with soles of feet, rise to standing position.

3.	Fish Hawk—Kneel on right knee, keeping left knee and both hands off ground. Swoop down and with teeth pick up handkerchief ip front of right knee.

4.	Jumping Jack—With hands on hips and standing on toes bend knees for a deep squat and rise as high as you can, alternately, six times.

5.	Bali Rolling—Sit on ground with knees up. Put arms underneath knees from inside and clasp hands in front of ankles. Sway the body until you lie on left thigh and left shoulder. Next lie on back. Next lie on right thigh and right shoulder. Next sit up. Continue the roll for two more revolutions.

6.	Top Spinning—Stand on your toes. Jump up in the air and do an about-face before landing on your toes. Jump up again and about-face twice while in the air.

7.	Somersault—Put your hands on the ground and place your head on the floor between them. Kick your heels over your head and lie on your back on the ground. Bending forward and grasping your ankles stand up.

8.	Mule Kick—From a deep squat with hands on ground in front of you, kick up with both feet together as high as you can three times.

COMPETITIVE STUNTS.

Open only to these completing all qualifying stunts. Judged for grace, distance, speed and general form. Poorest in each event disqualified for next stunt.

9.	Dog Trot—Travel on hands and toes with knees naturally bent.

10.	Crab Walk—Take deep squat, bend backward until hands touch floor and walk in this position.

11.	Crane Strut—Travel on hands and feet with knees unbent.

12.	Stump Walk—Travel on knees with each ankle grasped behind back in a hand.

In the Swedish newspaper “Folkets Dagblad” we read the following relative to the last Olympic Games held at Antwerp. “If the participants in the classic Olympics, the sons of old Hellas, could arise and view the proceedings of their modern prototypes at the Stadium in Antwerp they would return with sorrow to their shadow land. Scarcely a contest was held that did not lead to fights, wild demonstrations by mobs, protests against judges. In several cases participants had to be carried off the field bleeding, injured or fainting. Winning nations were defamed by the losers, national flags were torn to pieces because some unknown foreign rival came to the finish a fraction of a second before a native or a favorite.”

Digitized by <^,ooQLe
839

N OTES AND COMMENT

GERMAN CONGRESS ON MORAL EDUCATION.

BY THERESA BACH.

The first German congress of moral education, convened on March 30 in Leipzig, had a very definite aim, namely, to free the school from forma religious instruction by substituting moral lessons in its stead. Prof. Paul Barth, of Leipzig University, the promoter of the congress and its presiding officer, opened the first session with a paper entitled: “The Need for a Systematic Moral Instruction in the Public and Continuation Schools.”

Professor Barth’s main contention was to the effect that all denominational divergencies can be reduced to common moral principles which will not offend even the atheist. At present the only ties that bind society are based on moral ideas. Truthfulness, good-will toward allv and avoidance of violence are, for instance, moral virtues or qualities to which no one will hesitate to subscribe. The introduction of moral lessons will cause no offense to anybody and will thus meet with the approval of the general public.

RELATION BETWEEN DOGMA AND MORALITY.

Somewhat similar in character were the arguments advanced by Prof. Jonas Cohn, of Freiburg. In his discussion “On Moral Education and the Belief in God” the lecturer pointed out the relation between morality and belief. Prof. Cohn finds that both ideas form an integral element of our modern culture, yet from an educational point of view they should be kept apart. Moral lessons should not be based on religious beliefs, for if the latter are shattered the individual should still find strength in moral attributes.

Another interesting report on religious and moral instruction was presented by Dr. R. Penzig from Berlin-Chariottenburg. Dr. Penzig’s contention that religion, as a matter of belief, differs widely from morals, as a matter of training, led to the demand that instruction in the former subject be taken out from the school curriculum in favor of lessons in morals.

In his report on Moral Education and Community Work in the School Room, O. Erler, of Leipzig, contended that under present school conditions it is impossible to create a moral character owing to the school ratings that foster in the pupils merely selfish ambitions and interests. Systematic moral instruction, he said, may to a certain degree develop the moral sense and the moral will, but it will not produce a moral personality.

Moral education must be derived from the common work of all members of a class with the teacher as an active participant, continued Mr. Erler. This can be accomplished only in a “labor school.” Common practice is the only thing that stimulates moral activity and creates

Digitized by <^.ooQle
840

moral thoughts. In the labor school alone do teaching and practice go hand in hand. The purpose of such school is not to teach manual work, but to educate a child to become an active member of society. Not knowledge, but duty is its guiding principle. Work is the regulating agent of all its activities. Scholars experience the pains of toil, but also the pleasures derived from it. Not individual, but common efforts should be the aim of the school. Teacher and pupils become friends. The severest punishment is to be excluded from the common work. Moral instruction becomes thus part and parcel of the labor school activities.

DEMANDS INTRODUCTION OF MORAL TRAINING.

In conclusion the congress passed the following resolutions:

The first German congress of moral education with 850 participants held at Leipzig from March 30 till April 1, demands that the German governments introduce immediately the system of moral education and instruction according to article 148 of the German Constitution.

Irrespective of denominational gods all pupils in the various types of school must be trained to become moral personalities according to the principles of scientific ethics. This can be accomplished by habit, by personal and social exercise of the will, and by direct instruction in the moral way of thinking. For the purpose of ethical instruction, which from the lower classes up is to be related to current events and to th various class subjects, there is to be instituted in the higher grades a special course, the aim of which will be to systematize and to summarize the subject in a more intense way.

Apart from this, the general religious culture is to be transmitted to the children by a scientific and objective presentation of the history of religion.

The congress views the neutral secular school, built up according to the pedagogical principles and devoid of denominational and other tendencies, as the only type of school that is capable of furthering the urgently imperative spiritual and social unity of the German people.—Sehotl Life.

At the twenty-sixth annual convention of the Utah Educational Association held in Salt Lake City October 20-22, the Physical Educa-cation Department under the direction of the president, Mrs. Sophie Reed, Supervisor of Physical Education in the public schools of Ogden, had the following program:

Good Sportsmanship, Supt. W. K. Hopkins, Ogden.

Demonstration—Games for Pupils in Upper Grades of the Elementary Schools—Miss Olga Carlson, Utah Agricultural College.

The Better Teaching of Posture in the School Room, Dr. J. Leo Marshall, University of Utah.

Demonstration—Folk Dancing, Pupils of the Fifth and Sixth Grades -of the Liberty School, Salt Lake City.

Some Current Problems in Physical Education, Prof. J. R. Griffiths, University of Utah.

At the business meeting, Miss Carol Evans of the West High School, Salt Lake City was elected president for the coming year and Miss -Hattie Tipton of the Granite High School, Secretary.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
841

LOOKING FOR HEALTH IN CHILDREN.

Systematic medical examinations are made of the pupils of the public schools of Baltimore and of other Maryland cities by the Public Athletic League as far as the funds at its disposal will allow. If the examination fails to reveal any remediable defects, the child is awarded a “health first” button, signifying that he is in good physical condition. In addition, the following letter of commendation is sent to the child’s parents, complimenting them for their care and interest regarding their child’s health:

Dear---------:	May	we tell you how glad we are that your son------

has nothing we can find that needs a doctor’s care? We were delighted to be able to give him a “health first” button to show to you and his friends how well you have watched over his health. Usually, we have to ask the children’s folks to have some troubles fixed up rather than to have a chance to praise them for keeping their child well and for seeing that he misses none of the happiness that can come only from health.

We rejoice that your boy is one of the 20 per cent that are well and happy because of your watchfulness.

We hope to give him such a button every year he is under our teaching.

Yours, sincerely,

G.	L. Timanus, M. D., Medical Supervisor.

Edward Novak, M. D., Medical Examiner.

DISTINCTIONS FOR CHILDREN WITHOUT DEFECTS.

If the physician does discover one or more remediable defects, but not of a nature to exclude him from participation in athletic activities, he is awarded a green button, which certifies the physician’s permission to participate in general athletic activities. The parents are notified re- . garding these defects and urged to have them remedied. After a brief interval the visiting nurse visits the home of the child to learn if the defect has been corrected; and if not, to help make arrangements to have this work done.

The annual report of the medical department of the league for the school year 1919-20 shows that 12,504 boys' and girls were examined by the physicians of the league. Of this number, 8,jio were boys and 3,994 were girls. Twenty-four hundred and twenty-one (2,421) boys, or 28^ per cent, were awarded the “white button,” while only 499 girls, or 12 per cent, received a similar award.

The visit of the English hockey team should have a good effect upon increasing the vigor of much of the physical training work given to girls in the United States. Any one who was fortunate enough to witness one or more of the games played by the English visitors with picked teams -from our large eastern cities must have been impressed by the endurance, the speed, the skill, as well as the team work displayed by the team. During any one of the games the thought would often come to a critical spectator “what chance would the average American high school girl,

Digitized by LjOOQle
842

with four years of physical training back of her, have, if matched against the average English girl of like training?”

Judging by what usually is seen when viewing girls’ high school work we pay too much attention to marching and to free exercises and not enough to types of work that develop speed and endurance. May the time soon come when the value of physical training work will be viewed primarily as to its effect upon heart and lungs. We have the feeling that one of the effects of the wonderful and strenuous games played by our visitors will be a thorough revision of the work in physical training where, in our schools, there are wide awake teachers.

A CIRCULAR OF INFORMATION.

Issued by the Board of Public Education, Division of Physical Education,

Philadelphia.

To the Principal:

Your attention is directed to the following brief statement which is sent for your information and guidance concerning

I. SCOPE OF DUTIES OF SUPERVISORS.

The supervisors of physical education shall visit the schools in accordance with instructions from the Director of Physical Education to give assistance in connection with the following divisions of the work:

1.	Interpretation of the Course of Study in Physical Education

(a)	Regular prescribed work.

(b)	Special work.

(c)	Corrective work, in co-operation with the school doctor and nurse.

(d)	Special class work (special assignments).

2.	Guidance of Classroom Teachers and Departmental Teachers of Physical Education.

By means of:

(a)	Presentation of new work.

(b)	Demonstration of proper methods.

(c)	Observation of lessons taught by the classroom teacher.

(d)	Meetings and conferences.

3.	Supplementary Phases of Physical Education Work.

(a)	Physical efficiency tests.

(b)	Organization of athletic associations.

(c)	Recess and after-school activities.

(d)	Field days and exhibitions.

4.	Attention to Health Requirements and Regulations.

(a)	Seating, lighting, ventilation, heating.

(b)	Cleanliness of school buildings and grounds.

(c)	Personal cleanliness of pupils.

5.	Community Interests Relating to Health.

(a)	Development of interest in health work.

(b)	Promotion of health programs.

II. BLANK. FORMS AND EQUIPMENT.

I. Blank Forms for use in physical education work (see Circular of Information concerning Blank Forms dated September 1, 1920) should 4>e included by the principals when they make out their regular requisi-

Digitized by

Google
843

.tioos for blank forms in March and November. It is important chat this direction be observed in order that the schools shall always have on hand an adequate supply of these blanks.

2. Equipment for physical education work is also to be requisitioned by the principal and includes such items as balls, chinning bars, paint for yard and apparatus, repair to apparatus.

Edwin C. Broome, Superintendent of Schools. William A. Stecher, Director of Physical Education.

October I, 1921.

WANTED—Old books on Physical Training, Gymnastics, Plays, Games and related subjects. Address giving details and price, F. A. Finkeldey, Camden, N. J.

WANTED—A copy of March 1919, Mind and Body (Vol. 25, No. 275.)

Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minn.

KEYNOTE OF TRUE PROFESSIONALISM.

The enrollment of teachers in the summer schools and summer sessions of 1921 was larger than ever before. Complete figures are not as yet available, but conservative estimates indicate that at least twenty per cent of all of the teachers of the Nation were registered in summer courses. This does not tell the whole story, however, for large numbers of teachers seek leaves of absence during the school year in order to pursue advanced studies while even larger numbers enroll in the extension courses of neighboring normal schools and colleges, attending classes in late afternoon or on Saturday throughout the year.

The development of a permanent and stable teaching profession, then, is proceeding not only upon the principle that a recognized professional status means a throughgoing professional equipment, but also upon the principle that true professional growth must be continuous. Very rapidly a tradition is being established that cannot fail to have a far-reaching and most salutary influence upon American education—the accepted belief that the teacher must always be a learner.

It may be sufficient for other professions that the prospective worker be thought of as “completing” his professional education before he begins his practice, although we doubt whether this view is today accepted even in medicine, law, and engineering. Certainly for teaching, the conception of a “finished” preparation is already thoroughly discredited. “Pre-service” training is indeed recognized as more important than ever before. Throughout the country the normal schools are becoming teachers* colleges, and their requirements of admission and residence are being rapidly advanced. But this will not mean that the significance of “in-service” education will be lessened in any measure. The two policies are in no sense opposed. Even today it is the teachers with the best preliminary preparation who, with the best results, take advantage of the opportunities for further growth.

Thousands of the students enrolled in the summer sessions and in

Digitized by Google
844

the extension courses are in middle life; hundreds of them are gray-haired men and women. Not a few of them would be competent to change places with their ablest instructors—and sometimes they do! But the finest thing about it all is the willingness and the zeal with which these men and women assume the student-attitude. It is this that most clearly exemplifies the spirit that is coming to characterize the teaching profession. What may it not mean to the future of American education—and to the future of American life?—Journal, National Education Association.

Gymnasium and playgrount^

FRED FOERTSCH, Pittsburg, Pa. JL/

INDIAN CLUB DRILL FOR LADIES.

BY OTTO ECKL, CONCORDIA GYMNASTIC SOCIETY, ST. LOUIS.

NOTE: These three exercises were some of the model numbers shown at the National Festival of the American GymnasticUnion,* Chicago, June, 1921.

GROUP I.

Exercise /.

Count

1-i* double arm circle outward.................................... 1

Abbreviations used: 1-1—complete circle; 1-2— half circle; 3-4— three quarters circle; 3-8—three eights circle.

Upper double hand circle outward.................................. 2

1-i double arm circle outward .................................... 3

Double hand circle behind shoulders.............................   4

Step left sideward and straighten arms obliquely sideward upward 5

Close the right foot to the left and cross the clubs overhead..	6

Step left sideward and 1-1 double arm circle outward to position,

arms upward........................................................... 7

. Close the right foot to the left and bend arms to starting position 8

Repeat, taking closing steps right sideward.....................9-16

Repeat all ....................................................17-32

Exercise 2.

1-1 double arm circle to the left ................................ 1

Double hand circle behind the shoulders........................... 2

i-2 double arm circle to the left ...............................  3

1-1 forearm (double) circle left.................................. 4

Lunge left sideward and double arm circle to the left to position left arm obliquely side-upward to the left and right opposite (5-8 arm

circle with the left and 1 1-8 with the right arm).................... 5

Change knee bending and swing the right arm downward and up to the left (1-2 arm circle to right with right arm) turning trunk slightly to left................................................. 6

Digitized by CjOOQle
*45

Change knee bending and 7-8 double arm circle left of position,

arms upward ......................................................... 7

Close the right foot to the left and bend the arms to starting position ............................................................... 9

Repeat right, left, right .....................................9-3*

Exercise j.

1-2 double arm circle inward .................................... 1

1-1 double forearm circle inward, to position arms up ........... 2

Upper double hand circle inward.................................. 3

3-4 double arm circle inward to position arms sideward .......... 4

Step left forward and tilt the clubs on forearm.................. 5

Raise the right leg backward and the arms obliquely sideward upward, extending the clubs ............................................ 6

Step right backward and 1 1-8 double arm circle inward to position arms upward ..................................................... 7

Close the left foot backward to the right and bend arms to starting position ......................................................... •

Repeat right, left, right .....................................9-32

Exercise 4.

1-1 double arm circle outward ................................... 1

Double hand circle behind shoulders ............................. 2

Straighten the left arm obliquely sideward upward and 7-8 arm circle right with the right arm to position both arms obliquely sideward upward left ................................................ 3

3-8 double arm circle left (swinging both arms downward).......	4

Double forearm circle left to position both arms obliquely side-

upward to right ..................................................... 5

3-4 arm circle with the left arm to the right (inward) to position

both arms obliquely sideupward ...................................... 6

1 1-8 double arm circle inward to position arms upward........... 7

Bend arms to starting position .................................. 9

Repeat right, left, right .....................................9-32

GROUP II.

Exercise /.

Waltz step left to left side with turn left and 7-8 double arm circle left (double arm circle is in reality to right after the turn is made, but the movement begins left) to position arms obliquely side-

upward left ........................................................ 1

Complete the waltz turn stepping sideward right, turning backward left and 3-4 double arm circle left (circle is really right after

the turn has been made) ..........................................   2

Slide hop left sideward with 5-8 double arm circle left to position right sideward ................................................. 3

Place the right foot backinward and bend the left knee (courtesy)

and tip the clubs on the forearm.................................... 4

Slide hop left sideward with 7-8 double arm circle left to position arms obliquely sideupward	left ................................. 5

Pas de bourree change (step right foot in rear of left, step left sideward and then step right in front of left) with a 3-4 arm circle left with the right arm to position both arms obliquely sideupward. .	6

Digitized by Google
846

Pirouette left (cross step turn) with a 7-8 arm circle right ^of the

right arm to position clubs crossed over head........................... 7

Jete assemble (leap left sideward on the left foot and immediately close up with the right to position) with a quick straightening of both arms obliquely sideupward and bending to starting position ....	8

Exercise 2.

Waltz step obliquely forward left beginning left and double hand

circle forward outside the hand ........................................ 1

Step swing right forward with double arm circle forward passing

on the left side of the body (turning the body slightly left)........... 2

Balance hop left forward swinging the arms downward and backward (on either side of the body), trunk bent slightly forward ....	3

Swing hop right backward straightening the trunk and swing both

arms forward upward with crossing the clubs over head................... 4

Pirouette left with lowering the arms sideward and tipping the

clubs on the forearm.................................................... 5

Pirouette left again and raise the arms upward with crossing the

clubs over head ........................................................ 6

Slide hop left sideward (raising right leg sideward) with 1-1

double arm circle outward to position arms upward....................... 7

Close the right foot to the left and bend the arms to starting

position ............................................................... 8

Exercise J.

- Step left forward with raising right leg slightly backward, and 7-8 double arm circle outward to position clubs crossed over the head 1 Cut forward with the right leg and circle left leg sideward and

backward with 7-8 double arm circle inward ............................. 2

Cross the left foot in rear and close to the right foot and pirouette backward on both toes, executing 1-1 turn left and finishing with weight on right foot left foot pointed forward, with crossing the clubs

over head .............................................................. 3

Hop on the right foot circling the left leg sideward and backward and placing the left foot in rear of right and bending right knee (courtesy) with lowering both arms left sideward and tipping the

clubs on the forearm ................................................... 4

Face left and waltz step forward left with double hand circle

forward outside the hands .............................................. 5

Step swing right forward swinging the arms downward and backward .................................................................... 6

Pirouette left, swinging the arms forward upward and crossing

clubs over head ........................................................ 7

Jete assemble left as Count 8 of Exercise 1 ........................ 8

Exercise 4.

Balance hop forward left with swinging the arms downward and

backward with trunk inclined	forward .................................. 1

Step right backward and swing the left leg backward and hop

swinging the arms obliquely forward	upward.............................. 2

Face left and closing step left sideward and 3-4 double arm

circle left to position arms obliquely sideupward right ................ 3

Face left and step swing left forward with turn left the right leg remaining backward and raised. The arms make a 7-8 circle for-
847

ward upward arms passing on the left side of the body to position

chibs crossed over head ...........................................     4

Step right sideward and 5-8 double arm circle inward to position arms sideward.....................................1................ 5

Place the left foot backinward and bend right knee (courtesy)

tipping the clubs on the forearm ...................................... 6

Slide hop left sideward with 3-4 double arm circle outward to position arms upward ..................................................... 7

Close the right foot to the left and bend the arms to starting

position .............................................................. 8

NOTE:	Each	exercise	is	to be executed twice to each side.

GROUP III.

Exercise /.

Step left sideward	and 1-1 double arm circle outward.............. 1

Close right foot to	the left and double hand circle behind shoulders 2

Step left sideward and 3-4 double arm circle outward to position

clubs crossed in front of	chest........................................ 3

Close right foot to	the left and tilt clubs on the forearm......... 4

Place the left foot	sideward and carry arms sideward .............. 5

Bend trunk left sideward and cross clubs overhead ................. 6

Straighten the trunk and 1-1 double arm circle outward to position arms upward ....................................................... 7

Close left foot to right and bend arms to starting position....	8

Repeat right, left, right .......................................9-32

Exercise 2.

Step left sideward and 1-2 double arm circle left.................. 1

Close the right foot to the left and 1-1 double forearm circle left

to position both arms obliquely sideward upward to the left............ 2

1-2 arm circle to the left with the right arm (inward) to position left arm obliquely sideward upward to the left and right opposite, and

lunge left sideward.................................................... 3

1-2 arm circle right with right arm (downward and upward to

to the left) and turn trunk left ...................................... 4

Change knee bending and tilt the clubs on the forearm.............. 5

Outer double hand circle forward .................................. 6

Turn trunk forward and 7-8 double arm circle left to position

arms upward ........................................................... 7

Close the right foot to the left and bend arms to starting position ................................................................... 8

Repeat right, left, right .......................................9-32

Exercise 3.

Place the left foot backward and 1-1 double arm circle inward ..	1

1-1 upper double hand circle inward................................ 2

i-2 double arm circle inward ...................................... J

1-1 forearm circle inward to position, arms sideward............... 4

Lunge left forward and double horizontal hand circle above the

forearm to position arms forward ...................................... 5

Lower trunk forward and swing arms downward and backward ..	6

Straighten the trunk and swing the left leg forward and the arms

forward upward .......................................................  7

Close left foot to the right and bend arms to starting position ...	8

Digitized by


Repeat right, left, right .....

Exercise 4.

Repeat Exercise 4 of Group I.

EXERCISES WITH BOWLING BALL WITH ATTACHED

HANDLE.

Senior Men’s Class of the South West Gymnastic Society, St. Louis, Mo.

BY M. ORUEB, ST. LOUIS.

A Juggling* Drill.

Apparatus: A Bowling Ball with’handle attached.

Exercise /.

Formation:	Front	line

a)	Jump to stride stand and grasp ball in right hand.

b)	Swing shoulder high and down between legs.

c)	Lunge right forward and swing right arm upward. Ball behind hand.

d)	Swing down between legs.

e)	Swing right arm upward and lunge right forward. Ball in front of hand.

0	Swing down	and	with	twirl	change	to	left	hand.

g)	As (c) left.

h)	As (d) left.

i)	As (e) left.

j)	Swing down	and	with	twirl	change	to	left	hand.

k)	Swing both arms upward and lunge right forward.

e) Swing arm upward, ball behind hand. Place ball on shoulder and jump to close stand.

Exercise 2.

Formation: Two oblique lines facing partner.

a)	As exercise I. but in part (e) No. 1 helps hold number l’s ball and in (i) No. 2 helps hold number i*s ball.

Exercise 3.

Formation:	Column of couples.

a)	Do all except (1) of exercise No. I.

b)	All except 1st couple lay away ball.

c)	First couple do left, right and pass ball back to 2nd couple.

d)	Second couple as (c).

e)	Third couple as (c) but pass ball forward to second couple.

f)	Second couple as (e).

g)	All grasp balls, swing upward and with jump face about.

h)	Repeat a, b, c, d, e and f in reverse order.

i)	Do (k) of 1st exercise.

Exercise 4.

Formation:	Column of couples, facing partners.

a)	Do all of first exercise except (1).

b)	Change to left and right hand.

c)	Swing upward ball behind hand.

d)	Swing down ai\d throw ball to partner.

Digitized by Google
849

t) Repeat (d).

f) Do (1) of ist exercise.

Exercise j.

Formation: Circle face outward.

a)	Do all except (1) of ist exercise.

b)	Number 2’s lay away ball.

c)	Do left and right, and pass to right. Two times around.

d)	All grasp ball-do (1) of ist exercise and march off.

MARCHING AND FOIL DRILL.

ARRANGED BY OSCAR F. FAGER, ROCK SPRING TURNVEREIN, ST. LOUIS, MO.

Performed by 16 members of the Ladies Class.

Music: “The Whip” by Abe Holzmann.

Uniform:	Black	blouse	and	bloomers,	sleeveless	white	fencing jacket

and glove, foil carried at right side.

Formation:	Front	line	of 16, counted off in two’s, fours, eights and

sixteens.

Marching.

Counts

The line forward 16 steps and about face......................... 16

No. i Forward 16 steps and about face and repeat.	16

3*

No. a Forward 8 steps and about face and repeat 3 times.......	32

Line K wheel left and about face 4 times......................... 64

4—4 wheel in two’s................................................ 8

4—4 wheel in fours .............................................. 16

4—4 wheel in eights.............................................. 32

In two’s encircle each other...................................... 8

Total ..........................................................  64

Line forward 8 steps (No. 2 turn left about on the last count) ...	8

All forward 4 steps............................................... 4

No. 1 }4 turn left in 4 counts; No. 24 steps forward and about face 4

16

All forward 12 steps and about face in 4 counts.................. 16

All forward 12 steps and about face in 4 counts.................. 16

All forward 8 steps forming a line................................ 8

All mark time No. 1 yi turn left on the counts 5—6—7—8............ 8

16

The line of 16 is now facing front.

line of 16 wheel left around center. No. 9 to 16 turn about

on first count ...................................................^.	8

Ranks of fours, wheel around center (towards front) and mark

time 4 counts ........................................................ 8

©pen ranks (of fours) from the center, outward, marching side-

Digitized by Google
860

ward, distance 4 large steps between members........................ 8

All mark time .................................................. 8

3*

We now have a column of 4 ranks in open order facing front.

Foil exercises to follow immediately.

Left hand on hip—Foil vertically at right side.

Exercise /.

yi left. Foil pointing low....................................... a

Point of foil placed under knuckles of left hand, left arm extended downward ...................................................... a

Raise both arms forward upward foil over head horizontally ....	2

On guard (left arm curved) ...................................... 2

Lunge forward arms extended ..................................... 4

Resume guard .................................................... 2

Fundamental position ............................................ 2

16

Exercise 2.

Same movements as in Exercise	1 ............................. 1—8

Parry Second ..................................................9-12

Resume guard and fundamental position ....................... 13-16

16

Exercise 3.

Same movements as Exercise 1	.............................. 1—8

Lunge forward (deep) fingers of left hand touching floor, foil points

obliquely upward ..............................................9-12

Resume guard and fundamental	position ........................13-16

16

Exercise 4.

Same movement as Exercise 1 .................................. 1—8

Parry cross point (right foot over left) .....................9-12

Resume guard and fundamental position .......................13-16

16

Exercise 5.

yi left (2 counts.) On Guard (2 counts) ...................... 1—4

Advance ...................................................... 5—8

Lunge ........................................................9-12

Parry second ................................................I3“1^

Lunge (deep) ................................................17-20

Parry cross point ...........................................21-24

Retreat .................................................... 25-28

Fundamental position.........................................29-32

3*

Marching.

Close ranks to center (sideward)................................ 8

Rank yi wheel left around center (4) and mark time (4 counts)..	8

Digitized by v^ooQle
851

Ranks of (16) yi wheel right around center (No. i to 8 turn

about on first count and again about face on last count) .............. 8

Forming a cross as follows:

First rank (No. i to 4) yi turn left forward 4 steps and yi turn

right ..............................................................

Second rank (No. 5 to 8) yi wheel left and mark time...........

Third rank (No. 9 to 12) yi turn right and angle march right

and yi turn left ...................................................

Fourth rank (No. 13 to 16) yi wheel left around the center.....	8

32

A cross is now formed all standing with left shoulder toward

center.

4-4 wheel left in a cross and about face on the last count....	16

4-4 wheel right in a cross and about face on the last count....	16

3*

The outer couples yi wheel around center........................... 2

March forward 3 steps with closing step ......................... 3-6

Part with one step outward and face each other .................. 7-8

Cross foils and 4-4 Millwheel right .............................9-16

4-4 Millwheel left .............................................17-24

Couples close (facing cross) ...................................25-26

March forward 3 steps and close heels ..........................27-30

Couples wheel around center.....................................31-32

Meantime the cross of 8 members execute the following:

4-4 wheel left in a cross ......................................... 8

The inner members encircle their outer partners, passing in front and rear, holding foil horizontal over head in 8 counts (twice). The outer members 4-4 turn left in place (two counts to each yi turn)

twice.................................................................. 16

4-4 wheel left in a cross ......................................... 8

3*

Ranks of fours 4-4 wheel around the outer flanker and about face

on last count.......................................................... 16

Ranks of fours wheel around the outer flanker and about face on

last count ...........................................................  16

The outer couples yi wheel around center......................... 1-2

March forward 3 steps and close heels ........................... 3-6

Part with one step outer and face each other .................... 7-8

March forward passing each other with 4 steps turn about and

cross foils, form arch and hold ......................................9-20

Pass each other	changing places ................................21-24

Couples close and return with the next 8 counts forming the large

cross (see 1 to 8 counts) ...........................................25-32

Meanwhile the cross of 8 members execute the following:

4-4 wheel lef t	in	a	cross ........................................ 8

The outer members turn outward and march forward and under arch, turn about and return under arch and reform the cross.

Digitized by LjOOQle
852

The inner four cross foils in center left arm side, foil in right hand. 4-4 wheel left in a cross and about face (changing foil from one

hand to the other) ............................................... 16

Now the cross of 8 members 4-4 wheel left ..................... 8

3*

All face center of cross and the 4 leaders counter march right (8 counts) then angle march left gradually forming a large circle with

about 4 steps distance between members................................. 32

The members in this large circle are counted off in ones and

twos (couples).......................................................

Couples face each other crossing foils and yi Millwheel right ....	8

No. Two’s remain standing facing center of circle. No. One's inarch towards center of circles with 4 steps, turn about facing No.

Two’s .................................................................. 8

Couples cross foils and 4-4 millwheel right and mark time --------- 16

Thus 2 circles are formed No. i*s are in the inner circle and No.

Two’s in the outer circle	-----

3*

Without pause follow up with the foil exercises.

All No. One’s commence with the 1st foil exercise.

All No. Two’s execute the 2nd foil exercise............................ 16

Now reverse order No. 1 commencing with the 2nd foil exercise.

No. 2 with the 1st foil exercise ........................................... 16

3*

All No. 1 will now start with the 3rd foil exercise.

All No. Two’s will now start with the 4th foil exercise.

Now reverse order ................................................ 3a

All One’s commence with the 5th foil exercise.

All Two’s with the following change.

yi left (2 counts) on guard...................................... 3-4

Retreat ......................................................    5-*

Parry second ...................................................9-1 a

Lunge (deep)....................................................21-24

Advance ........................................................25-28

Fundamental pass ...............................................29-32

All No. One’s march to their former places in the outer circle forming one large circle, left shoulder to center. All march in a circle then the 4 leaders angle march toward center forming a cross,

then reforming to a front line of 16.............................. 3a

All backward march 8 counts and mark time...................... 8

All forward march 4 steps and about face.

All forward march 4 steps and about face.

All forward march 2 steps and about face.

All forward march 1 step and close heels and salute........... 32

Turn towards leader and march off.

768

Digitized by Google