MIND AND BODY

Vol. 24.	DECEMBER, 1917 No.	264

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

~	EDITORIAL	COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM< A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 45 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14. 1916, at the post office at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS j

Q	'	■■■■	'■	■■	    ■	  ■■■■0

THE ESTHETICS OF MOTION

WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO

THE PSYCHOLOGY OF GRACE *

(Second Paper)

Conclusion of the Translation of Souriau’s VEstheiique du Mouvement, with

Summary by GEORGE H. BROWNE

Headmaster, The Browne & Nichols School, Cambridge, Massachusetts.

For a movement to create the impression of physical ease, many conditions are requisite, of different degrees of importance: The most important of all is conformity with our natural ways of doing things; which goes to show that if the value of beauty is in itself, grace is entirely relative. We may rnNroPMiTv observe very accurately the motions of an animal '•	ITY	or	a	man,	and judge whether they are adapted

to their end; but we can not judge the feelings of another except by analogy with our own feelings; in imagination we put ourselves in the other’s place and attribute to him the feelings that we should have in similar circumstances. To what illusions this transference of personality exposes us is obvious. I observe a peasant woman sitting on a wagon seat, her back straight.

TO OUR INDIVIDUAL HABITS

Digitized by C-ooQle
342

her basket on her knees; she will stay in that position until her journey’s end—for hours. She gives me sensations of cramp, stiffness, constraint; I suffer for her. But she experiences no embarrassment of that kind; she feels no need of relaxing, and consequently does not suffer from her stiffness—she’s all right! My thinking the turtle’s.gait too slow, too fatiguing, is mere illusion. As a matter of fact, it costs him. no more effort to walk than it does the hare to run. A left-handed player throws a ball with his left hand as easily as a ‘right-hander With his right; but the right-hander, seeing a ball thrown with the left hand, thinks the action ungraceful because, if he had to throw with his left hand, he would find it awkward arid fatiguing. Hence the prejudice which asumes that left-handers are less adroit than right-handers. The movements of a snake leave nothing to be desired physically to produce the appearance of grace; most of the definitions of grace, as to attitudes, movements, lines, would apply to the snake better than to any other animal. And yet, one would have to be pretty philosophical to get much pleasure in observing his evolutions. We not only feel a natural repugnance, an instinctive apprehension, but we can not even in imagination sympathize with such •attitudes, such movements—they are incompatible with our make up. We can comprehend what it might be to be a bird, an ant, or even a lizard; but to be a snake, to have neither arms nor legs, to get ahead by wriggling, to screw in a spiral, to crawl on yourself—the mere suggestion puts the imagination on the rack— “think on’t again, I dare not.”

When we watch an athlete doirig some feat, what do we look at first to judge of the effort he is making, of his strength and vigor?

His face. If he does his stunt without knitting his brow, without growing red in the face, without his veins swelling, he will give us the impression of ease in the employment of his strength. People who show these signs of muscular effort more than others, always seem less graceful in the physical exercises in which they indulge. Those who grow red iri the face at the slightest effort, no matter what their agility or their strength, can never give the impression of perfect ease. The true athlete, then, ought to have a colorless complexion. The conventional white paint Of clowns, originally devised to make them more comical, secures an unintended effect—it renders them more graceful; for on their blank faces, traces of effort are no longer visible; as they perform feats of incredible agility, their, grotesque mask remains impassive—almost indifferent to what is being done by the rest of the body. I recall once being present at a day-light rehearsal of a circus when, naturally, the clowns were without their make-up. It was a disillusioriment—no longer those elastic; bounding, fantastic creatures, as they appeared in the glare of the lights; but common-place young men of ordinary enough type, working conscientiously to perform feats evidently of great difficulty!

2. ABSENCE OF VISIBLE EFFORT

Digitized by

Google
343

■ Not only by the eye, but also by the ear, we judge of the ease with which a movement is executed and of the effort which it requires. We are in the habit of judging of the ' •	_ violence of a shock by the noise which accompanies

ArNftKr	it- Every big loud noise gives the idea of a

of noise	big moving mass suddenly arrested, of a great

active force suddenly stopped. External sounds that accompany movements ought, then, to be taken into account in the estimation of the effort. Useful in certain cases for marking a motor rhythm (like the tic-tac of a pendulum), or to give the impression of power (like the splash of a boat cleaving the waves), they are always incompatible with grace, properly so-called. Sometimes they will increase the apparent difficulty of

a.movement (flapping of the wings of a big bird taking flight); sometimes they will give the impression of heaviness (horses careering on the stage). On the other hand, silent movements seem to do their work all by themselves (jumps on a thick carpet, the tread of felines, the flight of .owls). To this absence of noise the play of light owes its appearance of fantastic lightness, like the moonlight on the sea, the aurora-borealis, the reflection on the ceiling from a vase of water. [I wish I might have formulated this psychological defense when I was taken to task for marking down the grace of some Ottawa skaters, once, for crunching the ice.]

We are in the habit of roughly estimating at a glance the volume and the density of bodies. The effort necessary to move or lift an object being obviously proportionate to its '	weight, the movements of an object or of an

4* ArP^R„J animal very big and very heavy appear to us lightness rather fatiguing. That’s the reason why, in general, little animals seem to us more graceful in their movements than big ones. But it seems to me that in the estimate of the weight of things which we ordinarily make, we consider rather their density than their mass. A cloud seems to us light; the rain that falls from it, heavy. We ask a child which is heavier, a pound of lead or a pound of feathers; and he gravely reflects on the problem—which goes to show that for him the weight of some things is rather a question of density than of mass. These elementary notions necessarily have an influence on our esthetic judgements.

In this way I should explain the fact that animals with a smooth skin like snakes and frogs, with shells like turtles, with hard and polished wing-cases like June-bugs, seem to us at first sight heavier than others; and that furry, hairy, feathery animals seem lighter. This outer covering does increase the actual weight a little; but tho’ it adds much more to the apparent volume, really makes it seem less heavy. When we see a bird flying, we are not surprised that it can sustain itself in the air so easily; to our eyes, which judge things only superficially, it seems all feathers—almost lighter than air. But tumble it to earth with a shot, we are surprised at the heaviness of its fall, and of its real weight.

The shapes of animals are not less to be taken into account.

Digitized by kjOOQle
344

5. MAXIMUM OF STABILITY IN THE POINT OF SUPFORT

The big belly of the cow, or the hipopotamus, the head of the assr the hump of the camel, the beak of the toucan, add appreciatively to the weight, because to our eyes they are all a dead weight that can’t help retarding the free movement of the creature that possesses them. Whereas, the development of their motor apparatus, tho’ excessive, contributes to giving them an appearance of lightness.

For a movement to be easy and to appear graceful, the point of support must be solid, and look so. There is nothing so ungraceful as walking in the mud, in the snow, in the sand, or over spongy ground; you can't help feeling that part of your strength has been spent in making the foot-prints. The very fact that visible traces are left, makes the movement less easy. When the point of support is sliding or unsteady, the appearance will be still worse, because then the loss of power will be more directly perceptible. It makes one tired to see a man trying to walk on glare crust or climbing a sand dune, a boatman rowing against the current, a squirrel in a whirling cage, or a horse in a treadmill,—the appearance corresponds exactly with the reality, the expression of effort with the waste of energy. On the other hand, and for the same reason, jumping from a springboard or a tight-rope, is graceful, because the elasticity of the point of support is felt to add to the impulse. The most fugitive point of support is surely the air. The flight of a bird is really a continual fall counteracted by a continual effort to rise. It would seem that of all movements this ought to be about the least graceful. Why isn’t it? Well, not flying ourselves, we have no common measure to judge of the effort required to fly; and since the movement of the air fanned by the wing is invisible, our eye sees only the work done: we simply note that the bird goes very fast, and we conclude that he must go with ease.

Finally, it is necessary that the apparent resistance be reduced to a minimum. A boat which makes the water spout in front of it or draws a mass after it in its wake, seems to move with difficulty. The trick of the paper hoops which circus riders burst in their flight is not graceful; there is no real resistance to speak of, but there is an apparent obstacle, and that is enough to spoil the looks.

Here comes a difficulty peculiar to swimming and flying, An animal that moves in a uniform and homogeneous element like water or air, finds resistance in it at the same time that he finds his fulcrum; and if the feeble density or the mobility of the element in which he has to put himself in motion, is favorable in one sense, it is unfavorable in another. . What ought to be the effect of this kind of physical contradiction on the appearance of the movement? Sometimes the idea of unstable fulcrum prevails,, sometimes that of resistance ahead—the first, when it is a question of slow movement; the second, when of rapid. At the moment.

6. MINIMUM OF

APPARENT

RESISTANCE

Digitized by

Google
346

when a bird takes flight, his loud flappings producing only a moderate movement, we are aware of the force lost; but once his momentum 'is established, each flap of the wing carrying him farther away, he seems to find in the air a more solid fulcrum. This is true, anyway; for thanks to his progression, his wings find all the time new beds of motionless air, the inertia of which furnishes him the resistance which he needs for his fulcrum (cf. the instantaneous photographs of birds in flight). At the same time, the resistance ahead, which was almost nothing at first, acquires an appreciable force. Since it increases approximately according to the square of the velocity; and, accustomed as we are to observe it when we set ourselves in motion, it seems to us that the bird must make an effort to cleave the air, to struggle against the wind. (So of a steamboat starting from the wharf, or a swimmer.) In short, the moment when the movement seems easiest will be when the velocity will have attained an average rate, because then the mobility of the fulcrum will have become insensible, and the resistance ahead will be no longer strong. Again, we see that it is at mean velocities that movement acquires its greatest esthetic value. Here as elsewhere, beauty is above all a question of the right mean.

THE MORAL EASE OF MOVEMENT.

The difference between mechanical beauty and grace will appear more clearly when we take into account the second condition, the moral element. The more regular a movement is, the more rigorously adapted to its end, and the more economical, the more beautiful it is (according to physics and mechanics); but to produce the expression of grace, the rhythm must not be too monotonous, the object not too apparent, and the economy not too strict.

A rhythmic movement too regular has the disadvantage of appearing absolutely mechanical. Cf. the effect of the regular movements of idiots, the involuntary move-ments of nervous people,—twitchings, twist-

i.	FREEDOM jngSj tappings, etc., the more irritating when OF rhythm accompanied by noise. We are pained, because we instinctively feel that these reflex movements must be tiresome to the people who make them. But, all physical sympathy aside, and even when the person who makes' these absolutely regular rhythmic movements seems to take pleasure in them, the sight is unpleasant to us because it does not give us the impression of moral ease... The cavalcade on the Parthenon frieze gives the impression of an easy movement because the attitudes of the horses, tho perhaps a little monotonous, are not identical. Grace is not sacrificed to decorative effect. In the Italian ballets given at the Eden-Theatre, in Paris, the effects of repetition are overdone. A hundred dancing girls canting their heads to one side, bending and raising their arms, all at once, have rather the air of well articulated dolls than of dancing women— a very pretty feat from the point of view of training and discipline, but a great mistake from an esthetic point of view. In the great

Google
346

majority of physical exercises in which we indulge, especially games, we have a noticeable tendency to vary the natural rhythm of our movements for the sole pleasure of varying them. We are following not only the law of least effort, but the law of activity. We like to put our energy, our initiative to the proof; we react against the automatism that usurps us. Feeling that there is something-mechanical in movements too regular, we free ourselves from their rhythm just to avoid having the appearance of machines. Movements, then, really have grace only when we feel that their rhythm is taken up voluntarily, when we are free to throw it over whenever we like, and when there is ample field for individual whim and fancy—like a convenient rule which is not to be too rigidly obeyed: for next to the pleasure of observing a rule is the more agreeable pleasure of breaking it. (Applied to music and poetry.)

Finality is a law as tyrannical as rhythm; for it, too, constrains our movements to follow a predetermined order. Only by not conforming too rigorously can we give the impression of grace. Almost always the ac-LniinDnc! tivity of sport is more graceful than the activity OF purpose Qf labor. The laborer is serious. That the activity of work often has more beauty and always more dignity than the activity of play, I freely admit; but that it has more grace, I am loth to grant. Why shouldn’t the movements that we make for the mere pleasure of moving give the impression of greater ease than those whose object is the very opposite of mere pleasure.* The same exercise will give us an expression of ease or effort according as we see it as a distraction or a task. The expenditure of energy may be exactly the same—the sole difference of intention, of sentiment, suffices to affect the impression made upon the spectator. And this liberty of purpose applies to the movements of animals, also; and by analogy or metaphor even to inanimate things. The swingings of a branch in the wind, tho in themselves as much enforced as the swinging of a pendulum, seem more free because we cannot anticipate them so precisely, and therefore they seem more graceful... In general, every body that moves in a straight line, like an arrow in flight, a rolling stone, or a torrent sweeping down a mountain, seems to have an object and to be bent on attaining it; on the other hand, an uncertain or sinuous movement, as of a feather floating on the water, an autumn leaf falling, a brook meandering through a meadow, gives an impression of fancy, of caprice, of liberty, and consequently of grace.

♦ Souriau does not imply that work does not give pleasure; but, like Joseph Lee, (Play in Education), believes that not until work becomes a kind of play can the impression of enjoyment or of ease and grace be given. “True work is the highest form of play; but it is always the play element in work that is moat important."—(p. 52). "I enjoyed a very pleasant game of golf yesterday afternoon with my brother and his son Arthur" says Ed. Howe, quoted in The Independent, Oct. 18; "we pitched green alfalfa on a wagon and hauled it to the pigs. Then we took a drink of spring water and felt greatly refreshed after the exercise." If this "remarkable remark0 is only a humorous version of an oft-repeated insistence that the same exercise ought to be as profitable in feeding the pigs as in playing golf, it is, quite aside from the question of ease or pleasure, very poor psychology.
347

Not only ought we to sacrifice, if need be, economy to grace, but it is well, from time to time, to sacrifice it visibly. Beauty is made of luxury, .and whatever aims at economy is the veiy antipodes of art. Do, your best 3	economizing	your strength, but don’t show

OF effort that you . are economizing., Why are certain attitudes, very comfortable in themselves, most ungraceful? Just because they are too comfortable! It’s the same with movements—too obvious economy robs them of their grace. A certain prodigality in the expenditure of force is at times useful for allaying the suspicion of parsimony. In all the arts which can give us the impression of graceful movements, even in the most indirect way, you will find that little shows of force, some little bravado of difficulty overcome, will by an actual intensification of effort dispel the impression of effort. (Cf. the gratuitous variations and flourishes which opera-singers, violinists, pianists, drum-majors, bandieristi, and even poets, sometimes indulge in, to display their perfect ease and command.)

ART AND GRACE.

What we have just said leads us to think that true grace should not be found accidentally in nature, in some way or other, but should be intentionally sought. Made of appearances, it presupposes some concern for looks and some anticipatory considerations really artistic.

‘Grace’, says Schiller, ‘is a beauty which is not given by nature, but is produced by the subject himself.’ Nothing truer. Undoubtedly grace presupposes some natural gifts: a supple, alert, vigorous body; a plastic beauty, so that the exhibition made of the person not only excites no ridicule, but presents an attractive appearance; and, finally, an instinctive sense for rhythm and harmony. With this endowment, one may easily become graceful; without it, do what one may, one can never succeed in being graceful. All the rest is our own work, the product of our own activity; and I may add a product conscious, intentional, artistic, at least in the higher forms of grace. To be truly graceful, we must be conscious, if not of making positively graceful movements, at least of avoiding awkward and affected ones; we must keep a kind of watch over our positions and motions; we must strive for perfection in action, a little for its effect on those who are looking at us, but more for our own self-satisfaction, and, what is still more important, for the love of art.

This seems, it is true, to contradict a generally admitted principle; namely, that naturalness is the essential condition of grace. The most elegant movement in the world, if I feel that it is made with a consciousness of its elegance, ceases to please me—it is no longer liberty of movement, no longer perfect ease; there is in it, if not a physical effort, at least a moral constraint, which cannot fail to produce an unfavorable impression oh the spectator. Besides, does not'*experience warn us that the more We seek grace.
348

the faster it flies; and that the less we concern ourselves with our movements, the more natural grace they will have?

In general, every motion useless in itself is fatal from the point of view of grace. Your eyes light upon a little girl playing with her companions—she runs, jumps, dances with the utmost grace in the world. But she catches sight of you looking at her. She immediately assumes affected attitudes, poses for grace—the charm is broken! You admire, at the circus, a performer’s wonderful feats on the flying trapeze—he leaps into the air, seizes the bar in his flight, regains his equilibrium! So long as he thinks only of showing off his skill, he gives the impression of perfect ease in every movement; but see him, at the end of his performance, bid farewell to the applauding spectators—he takes a few mincing steps across the arena, places his hand on his heart, and bows. All the while, he is striving to be graceful, but all the grace is gone!

Yes, it is true, to attain grace, you must not be too much preoccupied with it. The affectation noticeable in those who wish to appear graceful, arises from the fact that their preoccupation is something novel or exceptional. They suddenly take it into their heads to give us an exhibition of supreme elegance, of perfect distinction. That is going at the business too quickly—they are not yet ready for the task. It must not be forgotten, however, that there is a kind of ‘mutual education society’ for grace— a mother, for example, will give good advice to her daughter; her friends will take it upon themselves to correct, with a smile, her faults of taste.

In the acquisition of grace, whether simply a question of motions of the body, or of that much more complex grace—of manners— there is a time of transition, a thankless age, when one loses the natural graces before attaining acquired grace. When you begin to do things voluntarily and on principle, you do them worse, at first. The grace you hope to get spoils the grace you have! When you begin to think about them, spontaneous movements become constrained; the attention which is given either paralyzes or exaggerates them. But they recover their grace, and even acquire a superior grace when they become so habitual that they are produced by simple reflex action. Then you will not have to be concerned with the position of your hands or feet, or the movement of your little finger; and the result will be a feeling of ease in your whole body.

This [kinesthetic] automatism is the indispensable condition of progress. In fact, the perfect harmony of movements requires the co-operation of a great many contributing movements. The attention being naturally limited in range, it can keep watch over only some of them, leaving the others to take their natural course. (That’s the way to do, Franklin recommended, you know, to arrive at moral perfection.) We endeavor, then, to train our muscles successively for the desired movement. When each of them has acquired its routine, and can function instinctively, we have only to signify to the body to execute this or that movement, to have it immediately obey. . .

Digitized by DOQle
It is important not to forget, even in those movements that have become natural by force of habit, that something is left for the will to do. When “spontaneous,” “unconscious” actions are mentioned, the words must not be taken too literally Even if it is not necessary to pay special attention to the details of our movements in order to acquire ease, it does not follow that we can leave our members to function solely by virtue of pure automatism. Acquired grace is not mechanical grace. The will always has to come in to keep the body awake, alert, ready to obey the slightest command. It must maintain harmony between divers forces which would soon become conflicting if left to themselves; it must speed up or slow down their action according to circumstances. In an orchestra, when each musician knows his part well, the leader has less to do; and for this very reason, he can serve to better advantage: he can direct the movements, watch the entrances, indicate the shades of stress and tempo, centralize all the partial movements to make them co-operate in the movement of the whole. The higher grace always has something intentional in it. From beginning to end, it remains a product of art.

But at least, we shall be told, this art must give us the illusion of nature in doing its best to conceal its art... The more I reflect on this theory, the more it seems to me a mere phrase, corresponding to no real exigency of our taste. Why should the thought that the beauty of a work is due to the intention of the author have power to lessen its merits in my eyes? On the contrary, it ought to enhance them. I hear a nightingale singing in a clear night. Ought I, so as not to spoil my pleasure, think there’s nothing intentional either in the hour or the song; that the bird is singing simply because the brightness of the moon keeps her awake; and that the nature of her song is determined solely by a law of least effort, a mechanism, a chance,—what you will, provided it be not choice. Evidently not... The idea that the grace of movements is absolutely natural, i. e., that taste or choice counts for nothing— that it is all chance or all automatic—would prevent my admiring it. I don’t want it to have an air too much tried for, too obviously prepared; but it still must seem to me intentional.

I	would go a step farther. To my mind, a bit of coquetry would not be amiss. I can’t for the life of me see why this art should affect disinterestedness and try to please us without having the appearance of being interested in our opinion. In fact, complete disinterestedness is impossible... It is very difficult to believe in the naive, spontaneous, unconscious development of grace; on the other hand, everything tends to show that it is derived from the instinct of coquetry. And what’s the harm? It would not show a very commendable disposition to find fault with beauty for putting herself out a little for us, for being willing to make some advances to us, and for showing some interest in our good opinion. Is the desire to please no longer a charm? Why, then, should we care to have grace without it?

Digitized by v^ooQle
350

THE EXPRESSION OF FEELING

The will, however, never absolutely determines either my actions or my positions. I wish to turn my head: but at what angle or at what speed? I never should have thought of that. If I do think of it, it will always be in a very Vague way. The most reisolute will in the world always has something irresolute in it; it directs movement only at large, neglecting always every little detail' of execution; it might be said to determine only to what general category a premeditated movement belongs. Whence, then, comes the increase of determination necessary for the eventual production of the movement? From causes which are strangers to the will—from the spontaneous contraction of the muscles, from simple reflex actions [kinesthetic reactions]..:

It is thus that our feelings determine oUr actions and our attitudes. The attitudes truly expressive are those which do not aim to express anything, but are Unconsciously determined by an emotion profoundly felt.' Take the most simple example in the world—that of reaching out and taking a cup. Suppose it taken by Alexander in the presence of his physician, Philip; by Socrates ready to drink the hemlock; by Faust in despair at the hollowness of life; by a child resigned to drinking a glass of Sedlitz water. The intention will be the same in all; in all, the hand Will reach out toward the cup. But what differences in the action, according to the feelings which inspire it! In the first case, it will show firmness, loyalty, with a touch of defiance and bravado; in the next, disdain, indifference, with a trace of irony; here, despair, the sheer frenzy of suicide; there, resignation and defiance. Substitute for the action a phrase; e. g., “Oh, well! die if I must!” and note the inflection according to the situation. The words will be the same in each case—but how the tone will vary!* These particular shades of action and attitude, which have completed the determination of the desired movement, comprise what Schiller so aptly calls the tone of the movement.

When we see a person acting under the influence of any emotion, our attention may be especially directed to three things:

1.	The movements themselves; 2. The emotion they feel the effects of; 3. The relation between these movements and the emotion.

1.	Certain feelings have the effect of exciting nervous and muscular activity, others of depressing it. The first are expressed for the most part in movements, the second in attitudes. compare the expression of good spirits, which is an exciting sentiment, with that of sadness, which is a depressant. The happy man can hardly keep still; he is all on the go; he chats vivaciously: the sad man voluntarily remains seated and silent. Active or

* Acting upon a suggestion from my friend Robert Frost, the New England poet; I’dnce counted the O’s in Hamlet, which I happened to be reading with a class. They varied in length from the merest (inaudible) gasp to over one fifth of a blank verse line; and I couldn’t reduce the whole number (over a hundred) into fewer than forty groups of similar meaning! Some of them naturally compelled a gesture. But I cannot guarantee to pronounce O by itself forty different ways! Like movements and lines, sounds get their characteristic tone from the whole of which each is a part.—G. H. B.

Digitized by v^oocle
351

passive, all feelings are compatible with grace, but only on condition that they are moderate enough not to stir us out of our self-possession; if they take on an excessive intensity, all grace is destroyed.

2.	In some cases, the effect produced by the sentiment expressed will only serve to add to the effect produced by the movements themselves. E. g., if a smile is gracious, it serves not only to animate the face, but also to awaken in the observer feelings of cheerfulness and good will analogous to those which it expresses. In other cases, there will be a conflict, The expression of physical pain is never graceful,, no matter how beautiful the attitudes may be by which it is expressed, because the sympathy we feel for the suffering comes strongly to the front and dispels, by contrast, the kind of physical sympathy [empathy] which makes us take pleasure in the rhythmic play of the muscles and the ease of their contractions. Mental anxiety, however, may still allow the impression of grace to be given, as coquettes well know, because then the conflict is not so very immediate; but still the inward disturbance, if prolonged at all, must be light.

‘When we see a movement executed under our very, eyes,’ remarks M. Guyau, ‘we synpathize with the body and the limbs which execute it; but we sympathize still more with the will which moves the body and limbs; the force of that will can attract us. more than the facile play of the organs; the object pursued by it can attract us more than a movement without an object; finally, there comes a time when the limbs, reduced to the role of mere instruments, stretched and bent like a bow about to shoot the arrow, sometimes broken even in their effort, count for nothing. It was no use for the messenger of Marathon, as represented in Greek sculpture, to be covered with sweat and to show in his features the very exhaustion of his strength, the beginning of agony— he had the laurel branch, which he waved above his head, to transfigure him and make him glorious. This man, broken but triumphant, is a symbol of human labor, of that supreme beauty made not of parsimony but of prodigality, not of ease but of effort,— a beauty in which the movement is no longer the sign or the measure of the force spent, but the expression of the will and the means of estimating his inner strength.’ A truer thought cannot be expressed with more eloquence.

3.	Finally, in expressive movements, we can admire even the quality of the expression; i. e., the manner in which the body adapts itself to the emotion felt. There are some organisms, a trifle coarse, perhaps, that moderate feelings are powerless to rouse, and that have to be shaken by violent passions to become expressive; and there are delicate organisms that respond to all the passions, and are made to quiver all over by the slightest emotion. It is therefore a veritable esthetic pleasure just to see how the most fugitive shades of sentiment are reflected in those mobile and transparent faces. Every particularly expressive movement, for the very reason that it is expressive, whatever the value of the sentiment expressed, has its own beauty, and a high one; tor what

Digitized by kjOOQle
362

it transfers to our eyes is not merely the life of matter and motion, but the life of the soul....

THE GRACE OF LINES

The grace of lines will find its only satisfactory explanation in the idea of motion, which is inseparable from the idea of line. A line by definition is a trajectory, a passage from one point to another. In considering lines from this point of view, we find ourselves on familiar ground. All that we have said of the esthetics of motion in general may be applied to^the esthetics of lines. The graceful lines will be those which are traced by a movement supple, easy, and free; they must have a purpose, but they must not seem too much bent on attaining it; they must have a direction, but also a certain variety. ‘This condition,’ says Leon Dumont with justice, ‘excludes from grace all direction in straight lines, at least when they are prolonged too far; or to speak more exactly, it excludes every prolongation of the same lines, even curved; for regularity in curved lines is no more attractive than in straight lines. It often happens that a series of curves is reckoned a single curve; and this confusion gives rise to the saying that curved lines are more susceptible of grace than straight lines.’ Hence the charm of farciful lires, accolades, braces, foliage, interfacings, and arabesques, in which, as Lamennais so aptly says, ‘the eye is lost in the pursuit of a symmetry which it thinks each moment to seize, but which escapes him in a perpetual and graceful movement.’

But what is more important here, in lines as well as in movements, in general, is not so much grace as beauty. A line will be beautiful when its trajectory is justified, when the transition from one point to another is effected in a curve of least effort. Suppose it is a question of joining two vertical lines: the most esthetic curve will be the one that will allow us to pass from one to the other without abrupt changes in speed or direction, without jerks, without useless turns. On this score, then, it might be said that the straight line, being the most economical of all, ought to be the most beautiful of all. In general, I should be inclined to be of that opinion. If the serpentine is the line of grace, the straight line is the line of beauty [mechanical beauty, not esthetic]. It is the line which by its predominance will give some style to a simple piece of furniture as to the most imposing building. The ‘marvelous curves of the Parthenon,’ of which so much has been said, had for their object only to prevent the optical illusion which would have distorted the lines of the building, and to give them the appearance of perfect straightness. [See below.] The straight line is the rule, curves are the exception. They will be used only to join, or to vary from time to time the hardness of the straight lines. Such is their function in Gothic architecture of the best epoch. [!] From the time when they were increased for mere pleasure and became dominant, as in the flamboyant Gothic, they mark a decadence in art.

But I would not abandon myself to sentimental reasons which would have us attribute to one line or the other, absolutely, a character of beauty. The esthetic value of a line cannot be estimated

Digitized by Google
353

when it is considered only by itself; it must be viewed in the whole of which it is a part, in the object whose form it determines. A line is not beautiful in itself. It is beautiful or not, according as it is well or ill adapted to its purpose. We ought to admire it only so far as it is justified by local convenience. If, in general, curves drawn by hand or, as it is said, by sentiment, produce a more pleasing effect than those traced by a compass, it is only because they are better adapted to their particular end; are, I should willingly admit, more intelligent. A building will have good lines if all the lines indicate good construction.

And so the conclusion of this study brings us back to the essential principle which we established at first; and which we should like to see established in all discussions on art and taste; viz., that real beauty is in the inteligent adaptation of things to their end".— 1889.

[Real mechanical beauty! That’s almost exactly what Spence, Winckelmann, and other XVIII Century estheticians said also of' grace—“the proper relation of the acting person to the action.!’ In the XIX Century, Schopenhauer thought grace “the perfect ease and obvious appropriateness of all the person’s movements and positions;” and Emerson associated beauty and grace not only with efficiency, but also with truth, goodness, and other moral qualities. In XX Century esthetics, the word “beautiful” implies “the satisfaction derived from the contemplation not of things but of aspects; and an aspect consists of sensations grouped together into relations by our active, our remembering, our foreseeing perception.” (V. Lee). “True or false is a judgement of existence; it refers to things; but aspects are what they are, and do not necessarily imply anything beyond their own peculiarities.” (“The Beautiful,” 1913, p. 19). The main fact of XX Century psychological esthetics is this:	“The	satisfaction	or the dissatis-

faction which we get from shapes is satsifaction or dissatisfaction in what are, directly or indirectly, activities of our own.” (ib., p. 30). The perception of shape, therefore, “depends primarily upon movements which we make, and the measurements and comparisons which we institute.” (p. 35).

In her earlier book, “Beauty and Ugliness,” (1912, p. 18,) Vernon Lee makes the following quotation from the book we have been translating:	“To	imagine things as they are for themselves,”

writes M. Souriau, a most suggestive psychologist, whose esthetics would have been extraordinarily valuable if only, he had added a knowledge of contemporary German thought to his own investigations on the subject, “is tantamount to imagining what they would be if they had an obscure consciousness of their own existence. Now, we have only one way of thus imagining things from inside, and that is, to put ourselves inside them.”

“We say, for instance,” she continues in a suggestive passage that is worth quoting in full, “that hills roll and mountains rise, although we know as a geological fact that what they really do is to suffer denudation above and thickening below. Also that arches spring, cupolas soar, belfries point, although the material

Digitized by U^ooQLe
364

buildings merely obey the laws of gravitation. Nay, we attribute movement to motionless lines and surfaces; they move, spread out, flow, bend, twist, etc. They do, to quote M. Souriau’s ingenious formula, what we should feel ourselves doing if we were inside them. For we are inside them; we have “felt ourselves,” projected our own experience, into them... This phenomenon of esthetic Einfuehlung, or, Empathy, is therefore analogous to that of moral sympathy. Just as when we “put ourselves in the place” of a fellow-creature, we are, in fact, attributing to him the feelings we should have in similar circumstances; so, in looking at a Doric column, for instance, and its entablature, we are attributing to . the lines and surfaces, to the spatial forms, those dynamic experiences which we should have were we to put our bodies into similar conditions. When we attribute to the Doric column a condition akin to our own in keeping erect and defying the force of gravitation, there is the revival in our mind of a little drama which we have experienced many millions of times, and which has become registered in our memory, eyen like that less common drama of hope, disappointment, and anguish which has been revived in the case of our neighbor’s grief and attributed to him. When we project into the soul of our bereaved neighbor such feelings as we have ourselves experienced on similar occasions; when we interpret the forms of architecture in terms of our own muscular pressures and strains, we are in both cases, however seemingly indifferent, producing in ourselves that particular dynamical experience which we attribute to the persons we have sympathized with, to the form “into which we have felt ourselves.” The projection of our experience into the non-ego involves the more or less vivid revival of that experience in ourselves; and that revival, according to its degree of vividness, is subejct to the same accompaniment of satisfaction or dissatisfaction as the original experience. So, when this attribution of our modes of life to visible shapes and this revival of past experience is such as to be favorable to our , existence and in so far pleasurable, we welcome the form thus animated by ourselves as ‘beautiful;’ and when all these processes of attribution and revival of our dynamic experiences are, on the contrary, unfavorable to us, we avoid that form as ‘ugly.’ ”

All this is more easily appreciated from the point of view of grace, for then we are observing not merely lines and shapes, but palpable movements. We have already seen that these “dynamic experiences,” however, do not necessarily involve locomotion, voluntary or involuntary,—often they are only muscular tightenings or organic sensations (altered breathing or heart-beat, perhaps slight movements of the eyes, etc.), mostly involuntary, and usually unconscious; but only in terms df activity like this can , our “feelings” and many phases of our experience now be scientifically, explained. Mere sensation can not explain esthetic feelings. .Pleasurable feelings are said to be due to a congruity or co-operation of these motor tendencies; disagreeable feelings to incongruity or conflict in our natural motor Responses. The impressions which make up the experience, of a straight line, for instance, per-
355

mit a simple adjustment, involve no inner conflict, and are therefore pleasurable; the irregularity of a broken line, on the other hand, makes us restless, disturbs us, irritates us, and therefore produces a disagreeable feeling. According to present-day esthetics, a curved line is therefore more agreeable than either, because “a regular curve has not merely unity and regularity, but a certain variety which makes the total experience richer in character than does the rigid uniformity of a straight line.” The reason why the Greeks thickened the Doric column in the middle with the beautiful curved entasis was not to secure the “appearance of perfect straightness,” for straightness would really intensify the esthetic impression of weakness just where the column ought to look strongest, but, by re-inforcing the supporting column at the critical point, to give the observer a pleasurable feeling of satisfaction, instead of distress and conflict, when he sees the lines and recognizes the adequacy of the column to do the work expected of it; for any feeling of inadequacy, or lack of balance or symmetry, is attended by an uncomfortable experience and by a spontaneous bodily effort to assist or to correct.

The illusions of weight, referred to by M. Souriau, are better explained by the activity of these muscular tensions. “There can be no doubt,” says a XX Century psychologist, “that whenever one looks at a small object, he prepares to lift it. The preparation consists in an incipient act, and this act is the physiological parallel of an important phase of the observer’s mental process of recognition,”—as of the adequacy of the column, or the perceptual estimation ®f the weight of a book on the desk. “The tension of the muscles often becomes so intense in watching another person at work that the observer becomes conscious of the tension as a distinct fact in experience. In looking at inanimate objects, the tension is not so great; but our perception of the column, for instance, involves an active sympathy (empathy) which is as important in determining the total character of the mental process as is the complex of sensory impressions.”

My own experience in judging skating competitions is in complete accord with this; my empathetic participation in the action frequently is so intense that awkward movements or unexpected inefficiencies in the contestants almost give me physical pain; if seated, I often find myself on the very edge of my chair; if on my skates, I can hardly keep still; and sometimes I have to exert strong will, not always successfully, to keep from making-some audible or active demonstration. I doubt if the winners in the Robinson Cup competition for the Pair-Skating Championship of The Skating Club of Boston got much more esthetic pleasure out of their actual performance, last March, than I did in following “empathetically” their brilliant program. In spite of the multifarious liabilities to optical illusion, to see clearly with the physical eye only the positions and movements submitted for your judgement on a particular occasion, and not, after careless, hurried, or partial observation, to see with the “mind's eye” what you have often seen before or what you expect to see; to judge fairly of the

Google
356

‘‘harmonious composition,” “variety,” and “difficulty” of original, five-minute, free- or pair-skating programs as they fly by you for the first and only time, and have discrimination enough to differentiate the comparative grace of numerous competitors, “empathetically” or otherwise, is to subject the powers of perception of movement to one of the severest trials imaginable. Souriau’s Part IV gives little aid here.

The performer as perceiver too, however, may profit by the French psychologist’s observations. He has reminded us how familiarity with the laws of attitude, movement, and rhythm, and with the various methods of terrestrial, aquatic, and aerial locomotion may not only serve to improve our own methods of locomotion, but also to provide us with more stable principles of esthetic judgement. He has demonstrated that tho’ the appearance of ease is a fundamental of grace, the most graceful movements are neither those that require least effort (H. Spencer) nor those that tire the least. Grace is more than mechanical beauty. To create the impression of physical ease, movements should conform to our individual habits, be made without visible effort, without noise, with apparent lightness, with a maximum of stability, and a minimum of apparent resistance; in addition, there ought to be some obvious variety in the rhythm, obvious freedom in the purpose, and a certain prodigality in the effort—too obvious economy robs movements of their grace. “It is often said that to be graceful, movements ought above all else to be natural; but the perfectly natural can be attained only with the aid of art. It is impossible that there should not be in grace a bit of coquetry; and this coquetry even gives it one more charm.” For Souriau’s “muscular synergy” and “putting ourselves inside things,” XX Century science has substituted “kinesthesia” and “Empathy”; and the way to grace is now clearer than the average will or patience to take it.

G.	H. B.]

GENERAL PEDAGORY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

By EMIL RATH, Indianapolis, Indiana.

The Terminology and the Command.

(Continued.)

The terminology of the various branches of physical education is treated as part of their special pedagogy and will here be considered only to the extent in which it occurs in the command and in reference to it.

The absolute necessity of uniform terminology in order that an interchange of opinions may take place among those engaged in physical education, that instruction may be given to many and the worthy productions be preserved, is so evident that discussion concerning this is unnecessary.	'

Terminology of any subject grows and develops as the subject matter is enlarged. The English terpiinology of most branches

Digitized by

Google
357

of physical education is still far from uniform and is in need of elaboration.

The most essential terms in physical education nomenclature are of the following type:—1) such terms as will fairly accurately name certain positions the body and parts of it assume during exercise; 2) terms for the various activities of the different parts of the body or of the body as a whole; 3) terms which will define precisely the many directions used in physical education when moving the body as a unit or parts of it, and 4) the names of the apparatus and their different parts.

The best and most suitable terms are those which are short, descriptive or suggestive and easily understood. They are often difficult to find but generally develop with the increased use of particular positions or activities for which they are intended. At first different terms appear but finally the most suitable one survives.

A practical terminology is both labor and time saving in its use in recording exercises for future purposes, for publication and. in formulating the command.

The form of the command employed by the instructor depends on the object he has in view. Generally two forms are used, the sentence form and the noun (or verbal noun) form.

The sentence form is used for the analytical presentation (see Forms of Presentation) of exercises, i. e., for the teaching of new exercises, and is the only form which should, if at all possible, be used for this. It clearly defines each movement of an exercise to be performed and signals the pupils when it is to be made. It is response work and has for its object among other things (see Modes of Execution) the learning of the component movements, of a complex exercise giving the pupils a clear and concise conception of each detail of the exercise. There are, of course, some activities which can not be analyzed and must be learned as a group unit of movements. If the sentence form is to be used for rhythmic execution the command begin follows the analytical presentation.

Examples of the sentence form are:

1)	Turn trunk left and (bend) arms upward - one (or bend). Bend trunk forward and (straighten) arms forward - two (or straighten). Return movements - three (or arms bend); four (or arms downward straighten). In complex free exercises the activity of the last named part is usually used as a command of execution, sometimes that activity upon which the most emphasis is to be placed, and most commonly of all, numerals. If the separate movements of this exercise are known the entire exercise may be announced and each part taken on the call of the numeral, or it may be given as follows: trunk turning left with arm bending upward; trunk bending forward with arm straightening forward and return - one, two, three, four. The last form is, however, most frequently used for exercises so well known that they may at once be performed in rhythm.

2)	Analytical presentation of the balance step. Step left
358

obliquely fore-outward - one (or step.) Close right instep to left heel and (raise) heels - two (or raise). Lower heels - three (or heels, lower). In using the noun form for this exercise the command would be: the balance step-one, two, three, which, however, can only be used if the exercise is already well known.

3)	Analytical presentation of the lying support: - Bend knees deep and (place) hands on floor-one (or place). (Straighten) legs backward to lying support frontways - two (or straighten). Return movements - three (or to squat stand, jump); four (or to a stand, straighten). ForJfuture repetitions: lying support frontways (noun form) in four counts, one, two, three, four, should suffice.

4)	Analytical presentation of the front vault mount and dismount right, from the side stand frontways - Jump with a quarter turn left and backswing of the body to a riding seat - jump. Legswing forward and backswing of the body to a free support and jump off to right - swing. Better examples might be given by selecting exercises performed in the hang, support, lying hang, lying support, etc., inasmuch as they are closely related to free exercises. Typical fundamental apparatus exercises are generally presented synthetically, not admitting of analysis. Frequent carefully executed demonstrations take their place. Demonstrations must, of course, not be neglected in the analytical presentation.

5)	Analytical presentation of the stand jump: Raise heels-one. Bend knees - two. Jump in place - three. Straighten knees - four. Lower heels - five. In noun form: The stand jump in place - one, two, three, four, five.

The noun form is used for analytical presentation of exercises previously taught and for synthetical presentation of a known exercise. Its use for analyzing purposes has been illustrated in the above examples. The following examples will suffice to illustrate the synthetical application of it:

1)	Arm swing fore - upward and downward - swing, one -

two.

2)	Two polka hops and two balance hops forward - hop, one and two, etc., to eight.

3)	Parallel bars: Support swinging forward and backward to lying support frontways and front vault dismount - run. If this is done in class work the pupils are kept together by counting for the various activities or by using words suitable to the activity.

For rhythmical execution a similar procedure is used. The exercise is named and then followed by, in time - begin (or start), march, jump, swing, etc., adapted to the activity. The word "begin” (or start) is most commonly used.

The structure of the command. We have frequently seen from the above examples that a command consists of two parts and a pause. The first essential in conducting formal work is to tell the pupils what they are to do. This is done by the first part or the command of explanation. After an appropriate pause, the performance of what is to be done follows upon the command of

Digitized by v^ooQle
359

cation. We thus need an explanatory command, a pause, and an executory command to do an exercise either upon response or in rhythm.

The explanatory command should give the pupils a clear conception of what is wanted and possess the characteristics of well selected terminology previously mentioned.

The pause is adapted to the complexity of an exercise being short in such as are quickly understood and proportionally longer in those more involved.

The executory command is adapted in tone to the nature of the activity and should always be accurately timed as to the moment of its delivery.

This does not always depend upon the complexity of the exercise, for the pause is often increased because the class is to perform a certain activity just as it reaches some definite place on the floor or field when moving from place, or after every member of the class has assumed some definite position. Such and similar situations demand well timed executory commands.

When applying the structure of the command to free exercises one usually names the lower extremities first beginning with the feet unless turns occur in which case they are mentioned first. The parts used are then named proceeding upward as trunk, arms and head. The general form is 1) activity, 2) part, repeated (if many parts are used), 3) direction, indicating left or right, or obliquely, if these, enter into the structure, before the principal directions are named, and finally 4) a numeral as command of execution. If the verb of the activity (or of the activity of the last named part if the exercise is complex) is used, it need not be named in the explanatory command. (See examples above).

One must bear in mind that with such terms as stride, step and lunge, the part of the body used is included in the term.

In tactics the name of the exercise is generally given first (as angle, or quarter wheel) followed by the direction (as left obliquely forward, or right) which is then followed by the executory command, march, or run, as the case may be.

In dancing one proceeds as in free exercises if the step is presented analytically. If synthetically, the names of the steps and number of them are given followed by the direction and “begin” as executory command.

In apparatus work the following sequence in the arrangement of the command is used:

1)	From stand, side or cross, frontways, rearways, sideways, left or right with

2)	Grip.

3)	Activity to

4)	Position on apparatus and

5)	Grip (if not given under 2).

6)	Activity to next position on apparatus (as often as needed)

or

7)	Activity to position on the floor.

Refer to above examples for illustrations of these principles.

Digitized by Google
360

When combinations or complex exercises of any of the above named branches are taught slight changes of only a part of the combinations or exercises do not demand the complete restatement of the whole command. Here one merely calls attention to the change as, the same exercise but polka hops in place of swing hops; or, same combination, but rear vault dismount in place of front vault dismount; or, the same, but arms upward instead of sideward.

Voice qualifications. A modulated, correctly pitched and well controlled voice is a great help in conducting work and obtaining results .and should therefore be striven for. Carrying power is particularly desirable. The commands should be clearly and distinctly enunciated so as to be easily understood, and the tone adapted to the nature of the activity, to the size of the class and of the room or space in which the class maneuvers.

In adapting the voice to the nature of the activity one must distinguish between the movements performed by sudden jerky muscular contractions much like throwing movements, as arm extensions, and those which require a slow or moderately slow, but forceful, vigorous and complete muscular contraction as arm stretchings and postural exercises. The former requires a snappy, explosive-like command of execution while the command for the latter is drawn out, but forceful, suggesting throrough contraction.

Between these two extremes lie many activities which do no. involve either the one or the other type of muscular contractions and for which a more moderate tone of voice may be employed.

It would be a waste of energy to use a loud tone of voice if one has but to manage a small number of pupils; on the other hand a conversational tone would not reach the various members of a class of forty or more. Here too, as well as in the above, the instructor should learn to adapt his voice to the size of the class and thus save his voice. The same is true in teaching in small or large gymnasiums and fields. The voice may be saved by correct adaptation and good control. Frequently one’s voice need not be much above a conversational tone. In all these applications of the voice the correct pitch should be found.

Correct emphasis on certain parts of the descriptive command enables the pupils to more readily grasp the desired exercise. Thus directions and degrees need to be emphasized if they change frequently. If an activity has been frequently performed forward and is to be changed to sideward, or if it is possible of performance in two directions as left and right, these words should receive emphasis. E. g., form in front of left, with emphasis on left to distinguish it from right. Likewise if various degrees of execution are possible in the exercise, as quarter (emphasis) wheel left, to distinguish it from half or three-quarter wheel.

(To be continued.)
361

PHYSICAL EFFICIENCY TESTS AS A PRACTICAL METHOD OF POPULARIZING PHYSICAL EDUCATION AT THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA *

P. L. KLEEBERGER, Berkeley, Cal.

It is not necessary for me to philosophize here as to the importance of physical activity as a factor in any comprehensive system of education, nor to point out the fact that one of our chief problems as physical educators is to help determine $nd to help enforce methods of education by which the intellect may be properly trained without a co-ordinate depletion of the physical powers. Nor is it necessary for me to explain the statements that the physical vigor of a nation resides not in a few highly trained athletic individuals, but in the health, physical versatility and stamina of the masses, and that whatever makes for health and physical vigor also makes for moral rectitude and intellectual efficiency. It is unnecessary to elaborate upon the findings of such committees as the one headed by Irving Fisher, of Yale, which demonstrated beyond all doubt that the most important and far reaching phase of National Conservation, from the standpoint of happiness as well as of economic prosperity, is the conservation of national vitality.

I	think we are all of one mind in the above matters and fully in accord with the Marquis de Polignac in his conclusion that in physical exercise we have a powerful instrument at our disposal, by the proper use of which we may greatly increase personal, and therefore, national health, happiness and efficiency.

You undoubtedly all know of the activities of the Marquis de Polignac and Lieutenant Hebert in promoting the renaissance of athletics in France and of the subsequent development of the College of Athletes at Rheims by de Polignac. You will remember that the original aim was to develop athletic champions, who should compete in the Olympic games, and uphold the honor of France; but that shortly these leaders realized that there was a work of much greater magnitude and importance before them, if done properly, would have the greatest possible influence for good on the national vigor of France, and would incidentally serve the purpose of discovering and developing athletic champions. This problem of ensuring proper physical education to all the people of France was undertaken with great vigor, the Marquis first establishing his famous College of Athletes at Rheims for the training of physical instructors and later making visits to this and other countries, for an investigation of the methods of physical education followed in various parts of the world. Lieutenant Hebert, Physical Director of the French Naval Acadeipy, was finally selected to head the College of Athletes, and his ‘‘Natural Method”, as he terms it, of Physical Education was introduced by liational legislation as a part of ,t}ie qurricplum of the schools of France.	,

I	am speaking' of all tjiis as I a,m specially mterestediq Jlebert’s scheme;	H'ebeftV	“Natural	Method”,	js	>lipqsi	iden-

*-Rekd atj the ^©nvpittQn, of the American /Physipal Education 'AesooiRtioo1, tPitt&hirg, Pa.,

f L*'* * > ■> ' > '	;	'	.	•"	•.	!.♦*<*/	•

Digitized by kjOOQle
362

tical in its fundamental conceptions with the method followed at the University of California, although it is quite different in the details of the development of these fundamental conceptions. In each case, individuals are scored and classified through the use of physical efficiency tests, which are based on the assumption that physical education must strive to develop not only organic vigor, strength, symmetry, and endurance, but also the greatest possible skill in the performance of normal, every day physical activities, - -those activities which may be reasonably demanded of any active, courageous individual during either the hours of work or the hours of play.

Thus the California method classified the men through physical efficiency tests of running, leaping, falling, and lifting of the body weight, of hand vaulting, (as over a fence or onto the back of a horse), of swimming, (alone, or supporting a companion), and of fighting, as with the fists in boxing, or with a cane, as in fencing, or with rough and tumble tactics, as in Jiu Jitsu and wrestling. Men are graded in these tests on the same basis as in their other university work, and are distributed in the various activities administered by the department with reference to the findings of these tests.

In the first place, on entering the University, all men are carefully examined physically by the medical examiners at the University Infirmary, which is a very important and extensive department of the University organization, as you will readily see from the following figures, if you will allow me to digress for a moment.

It is imperative that you should understand that the health of all students is given careful attention before the tests are applied. The Infirmary is under the direction of a specialist in socialized and preventive medicine, who gives his entire time to this work. It maintains a staff of four women physicians, five men physicians, two dentists and ten nurses. About 1600 entrants are given medical physical examination each year. About four thousand students, or 79 per cent of the entire student body in 1914-1915, were treated in the dispensary on an average of eight times each, making a total of about 31,687 personal treatments given during the year. In addition to the dispensary service, 669 students, —13.6 per cent of the student body, — were given service as house or bed patients, remaining in the hospital an average of 5.3 days each. There were 437 smallpox vaccinations and 123 typhoid inoculations administered during the same year.

All men needing medical attention of any sort are referred immediately to this department, — the Department of Physical Education, administering only first aid treatments in cases of injury. In organizing the work of the Department of Physical education the men are divided into two groups, — these groups determined by the findings of the medical examinations. The men showing organic weakness, deformity, crippling, etc., are classed as “specials” and are barred from the physical efficiency tests. These men make up about 4 per cent of the entering classes, and are given special attention through a system of individual supervision in the performance of special assigned exercises calculated to correct their specific

Digitized by

Google
363

defects. Photographs are taken of all men entering the University. This is done in the front, side and rear views, and advice is then given each individual for the correction of the defects in posture and development, which are thus so clearly visualized for him.

The tests previously outlined are divided into three groups, to-facilitate 'the administration of the plan. The running, jumping, vaulting, falling and body lifting elements are grouped as one test, — the first test given, — which is known as the “Agility Test”; the swimming, diving and life saving trials are known as the “Swimming Test”; and the boxing, wrestling, jiu jitsu, and fencing elements constitute the combat, or “Defense Test”.

If a man fails in his first test, that of agility, he is assigned to the activity which will develop ability along the line of his deficiency. Thus a freshman who is below par in running and jumping, but strong in the other elements of the agility test, is given a test between track and gymnastic class work. If, on the other hand, the man on trial is good in running and jumping, but fails in the agility test because he is weak in the arms, clumsy in his falling, and unable to hand-vault a common obstacle, he is held in the gymnasium, where the work is planned to overcome these faults, as well as to develop in him the organic strength and muscular vigor the lack of which he himself now realizes. The men who fail in the agility test are the men who show plainly the need of fundamental development, such as is most easily accomplished, where large groups are involved, through the more formal types of vigorous gymnastic drill. This group of men averaged about 28 per cent of the entering class during the year 1916-1917.

On the other hand, if a Freshman passes the agility test, he is then questioned as to his ability along lines of combat and swimming, it being explained clearly that it will be necessary for him to pass tests in these two activities if he wishes to have free choice of sports during his sophomore year. In case he expresses a doubt of his proficiency in either of these sports, he is advised to enroll in the one most in question that he may pass the subsequent tests, when they are given, with as high a score as possible. He is privileged, however, to elect any sport he pleases, from golf to foot-ball, during the remainder of this first half year.

At the beginning of the second half year, all men are again enrolled in the gymnasium classes for a period of three weeks of drill, during which time those who feel ready for the combat test are examined as to their ability in self-defense. If the applicant fails in the combat test, he then has a choice of activities limited to boxing, wrestling, and the other phases of combat work, or an alternative of remaining in the classes emphasizing formal gymnastics for the purposes of general development. If, on the other hand, he passes his defense test, (and about 60 per cent of the freshmen do, as a man haying any doubt at the beginning, generally sets about it .. seriously to prepare for the ordeal), — he is then free to elect any 1 sport he wishes until April 1st, at which time he is called upon to ■report and either pass the swimming test or enroll for that work

Digitized by

Google
364

until he can pass it. About 70 per cent of the men pass this test at the first trial.

In this way the men are prompted to enter the various sports which ensure a broad physical efficiency, on their own volition, and with a definite aim in view, namely that of meeting at least the definite minimum standard of proficiency laid down, and if possible, of making a creditable record. This method of attack results in a more sincere type of work, a greater breadth of development, and an active interest in systematic physical exertion on the part of the men. The sophomore or freshman who has accomplished all of his physical efficiency tests successfully passes from the “novice division” to the “athletic division” and is free to elect any sport he may desire.

Men who pass all phases of their physical efficiency test with a grade of “1”, and have represented the University on at least one Varsity squad, and who have a reputation as first class sportsmen, are eligible to the “Honor Division.” No man has attained this distinction as yet,-the above method having been in force only two years,—but several are now approaching it; and I feel sure that in the course of a year or two at the most we shall have a number of such super men - all round athletes in the true sense of the word.

Physical Efficiency Test.

Honor Division: 1. Health:

Sound heart and lungs.

Satisfactory nerve and blood conditions.

Normal conformation and carriage.

A clean bill of health.

2.	Agility:

Ability to hand vault an obstacle the height of eyes. Ability to run and jump obstacles the height of nipples. Ability to broad jump eighteen feet.

Ability to run one hundred yards in eleven seconds.

3.	Defense:

Ability in the execution of at least eight wrestling maneuvers.

Knowledge of the fundamentals of boxing , or fencing, and ability to demonstrate the same in actual combat.

4.	Swimming:	.

Ability to swim a quarter of a mile.

Ability to swim twenty yards supporting a helpless companion.

Ability to dive from the height of ten feet and bring a helpless or struggling swimmer,to the surface and break holds. . Knowledge of five strokes and ability . to swjm twenty-' five yards in fifteen secqnds,	:	.	,	,

Knowledge of “First Aid”^ methods in rqsiisc^tjion. ; . ,.

5.	Co-ojfetation and Sportsmanship.:,	.	,	,,	,

Varsity squad in at least one athletic sport A reputation for sportsmanship and courtesy.

Google
365

Note: One additional second of time in the one hundred yard run, six inches height credit in the vault, and eight inches credit on the broad jump are permitted each man, for every twenty pounds carried above the weight of one hundred sixty pounds.

Athletic Division:

1.	Health:

The same requirements as are found under the heading,

'	Honor	Division.

2.	Agility:

Ability to hand-vault obstacles shoulder high.

Ability to lift body weight three times (chin the bar). Ability to dive head. first to the ground while running, and roll to the feet.

Ability to broad-jump a distance of fourteen feet.

Ability to run one hundred yards in thirteen seconds.

3.	Defense:

Ability to demonstrate knowledge of four wrestling maneuvers, or,

Ability to demonstrate knowledge of boxing, or,

Ability to demonstrate knowledge of jiu-jitsu, or.

Ability to demonstrate knowledge of fencing,

Willingness to play the game.

4.	Swimming:

Ability to swim fifty yards.

Ability to swim five yards supporting a helpless companion. Ability to dive from a height of five feet.

Knowledge of “First Aid” methods in resuscitation.

Note: One additional second of time in the one hundred yard run, six inches credit in height on the fence vault, a credit of one body lift, and eight inches credit in the broad jump, are permitted each man for, every twenty pounds weight above one hundred and sixty pounds. Tptal exemption in the body lift and dive requirements is granted to men weighing over two hundred and thirty pounds. Novice Division:

A man is known as a novice until he has passed his “agility test”, at which time he is entered as “provisional” in the “athletic division”. After passing all phases of , the Physical Efficiency Test he automatically receives ■ „ standing in the athletic division.	'

Physical Efficiency Test Card.

Name .............................  Weight	Height	Number

T^atp	Date	1	Dsite	^

AGILITY " Grade	SWIMMING Grade DEFENSE Grade ’”’

Run (100yds.) ........ Distance .    Ability .......... ....... ....

Jump (Broad).......Strokes	.	Aggressiveness l.:.—L.

Vault (Hand) . ....... Speed   ............ Sportsmanship :...„—

Pull-up .............. Dive ...........*........... 1	,	i

Dive and Roll  ....... Rescue ...........^	‘	11

Assignment	Assignment	Assignment

Remarks	Remarks	•	Remarks

Digitized by
366

Physical Efficiency Test Card.

(Reverse Side)

System of Grading

AGILITY

Grade

100 yds.—13 secs......... 3

100 yds.—12 secs......... 2

100 yds.—11 secs......... 1

Broad Jump 14 ft.... .... 3

Broad Jump 16 ft......... 2

Broad Jump 18 ft......... 1

Vault—Nipples ..........  3

Vault-Shoulders.......... 2

Vault—Eyes.............   1

Pull-up—3 times.......... 3

Pull-up— 7 times......... 2

Pull-up—12 times_______  1

Dive and Roll—3 ft....... 3

Dive and Roll—6 ft....... 2

Dive and Roll—9 ft. ...   1

SWIMMING

Grade.

50 yards............ :....... 3

100 yards.................     2

220 yards ................     1

One Stroke (good form) ....... 3

Three Strokes (good form) .... 2

Five Strokes (good form) ..... 1

Speed: 25 yds.—25 secs.....:.. 3

25 yds.—20 secs.....	2

25 yds.—15 secs. ..... 1

Dive: Height of 10 ft. ....... 3

3	types (Straight, Swan,

Jacknife, Back, etc.)....... 2

6	types (4 prescribed)

(2^elective) ........ 1

Rescue: Distance 2 yds........ 3

Distance 5 yds....... 2

Distance 20 yds. .... 1

(3 methods)

Note:	Grading	is	based	upon	knowledge	and	skill	as	shown	with reference to position, balance

and proper use of both hands in hitting and blocking, and upon a friendly and considerate spirit of give and take.

At this point I should like to make it clear that the enrollment of a man in any sport does not mean that his formal muscular training is at an end. The importance of developmental drill is emphasized.

In fact, the formal class drills,---drills specific to the sports in

question — are demanded by the instructors in all. the sports before undertaking the competitive phases of the class work each day. These drills are most exacting, and it is common to find men returning to the gy mnastic classes, or putting in extra time with the weights, dumbbells, etc., realizing, through actual experience, that they lack sufficient foundation strength to make a creditable showing in. the particular sports of their choice. Thus the cart is placed before the horse that he may see the reason for his efforts.

The Department of Physical Education for men has a corps of two instructors and eight special assistants.,; Th$se men have conducted, during the past year, regular class instruction in fifteen different types of work, meeting 173 classes; each week, said classes ranging over a schedule permitting of a choice.dfhours, by those who have reached the status of the “athletic-division,?’- from 8:00 \ ; A, M. to 6:00 B. M., four and onehalf days of each week, as pef the >:.■ tabulation on opposite page. - -	•	.

Digitized by VjOOQle
o

o

n

SCHEDULE OF CLASSES DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION UNIVERSITY OF

CALIFORNIA.

	MONDAY		TUESDAY		WEDNESDAY		THURSDAY		FRIDAY	
8 A-rM.	6 B&D	Tennis See. 1	6 B&D	Tennis Sec. 2			6 B&D	Tennis Sec. 2	6 B&D	Tennis Sec. 1
9 A. M.	6 B&D	Tennis Sec. 3	6 B&D	Tennis Sec. 4			6 B&D	Tennis Sec. 4	6 B&D	Tennis Sec. 3
10 A- M.	1 B&D	Gym. Sec. 1	1 B&D	Gym. Sec. 2			1 B&D	Gym. Sec. 2	1 B&D	Gym.Sec. 1
10 A. M.	6 B&D	Gen. Rec. Sec. 5	6 B&D	Gen. Rec. Sec. 6	6 B&D	Gen. Rec. Sec. 5	6 B&D	Gen. Rec. Sec. 6		
10 A. M.	7 B&D	Boxing Sec. 1	7 B&D	Boxing Sec. 2			7 B&D	Boxing Sec. 2		
10 A. M.	8 B&D	Wrest Sec. 1	8 B&D	Wrest Sec. 2	8 B&D	Wrest Se 1	8 B&D	Wrest Sec. 2	7 B&D	Boxing Sec. 1
11 A. M.	- "t-		5 B&D	BsktballSec. 1			5 B&D	Bsktball Sec. 1		
11 A. M.	6 B&D	Gen. Rec. Sec. 7	6 B&D	Gen. Rec. Sec. 8	6 B&D	Gen. Rec. See. 7	6 B&D	Gen. Rec. Sec. 8		
11 A. M.	7 B&D	Boxing Sec. 3	7 B&D	Boxing Sec. 4	7 B&D	Boxing Sec. 3	7 B&D	Boxing Sec. 4		
11 A. M.	8 B&D	Wrest Sec. 3	8 B&D	Wrest Sec. 4	8 B&D	Wrest Sec. 3	8 B&D	Wrest Sec. 4		
2 P. M.	1 B&D	Gym. Sec. 3	1 B&D	Gym. Sec. 4			1 B&D	Gym. Sec. 4		
2 P. M.	2 B&D	Cor. Gym. Sec. 1	2 B&D	Cor. Gym. Sec. 2			2 B&D	Cor. Gym. Sec. 2	1 B&D	Gym. Sec. 3
2 P. M.	7 B&D	Boxing Sec. 5	7 B&D	Boxing Sec. 6			7 B&D	Boxing Sec. 6	2 B&D	Cor. Gym. Sec. 1
2 P. M.	8 B&D	Wrest Sec. 5	8 B&D	Wrest Sec. 6			8 B&D	Wrest Sec. 6	7 B&D	Boxing Sec. 5
2 P. M.	10 B&D	Swim Sec. 1	10 B&D	Swim Sec. 2			10 B&D	Swim. Sec. 2	8 B&D	Wrest Sec. 5
2 P. M.			6 B&D	Gen. Rec. Sec. 9			6 B&D	Gen. Rec. Sec. 9	10 B&D	Swim. Sec. 1
2 P. M.			5 B&D	Bsktball Sec. 2			'5 B&D	Bsktball Sec. 2		
3 P. M.	1 B&D	Gym-Sec. 5	1 B&D	Gym. Sec. 6			1 B&D	Gym. Sec. 6		
3 P. M.	3 B&D	Track Sec. 1	3 B&D	Track Sec. 2			3 B&D	Track Sec. 2	1 B&D	Gym Sec. 5
3 P. M-	4 B&D	Baseball Sec. 1	4 B&D	Baseball Sec. 2			4 B&D	Baseball Sec. 2	3 B&D	Track Sec. 1
3 P. M.	5 B&D	Bktbali Sec. 3	5 B&D	Bktbali Sec. 4			5 B&D	Bsktball Sec. 4	4 B&D	Baseball Sec. 1
8 P. M	6 B&D	Gen. Rec. Sec. 10	6 B&D	Gen. Rec. Sec. 11			6 B&D	Gen. Rec. Sec. 11	5 B&D	Bsktball Sec. 3
3 P. M.	7 B&D	Boxing Sec. 7	7 B&D	Boxing Sec. 8			7 B&D	Boxing Sec. 8	6 B&D	Gen. Rec. Sec. 11
3 P. M.	8 B&D	Wrest Sec. 7	8 B&D	Wrest Sec. 8			8 B&D	Wrest Sec. 8	7 B&D	Boxing Sec. 7
3 T. M.	10 B&D	Swim Sec. 3	10 B&D	Swim Sec. 4			10 B&D	Swim..Sec. 4	8 B&D	Wrest Sec. 7
4 P. M.	1 B&D	Gym. Sec. 7	1 B&D	Gym. Sec. 8			1 B&D	Gym. Sec. 8	10 B&D	Swim Sec. 3
4 P. M.	3 B&D	Track Sec. 3	3 B&D	Track Sec. 4			3 B&D	Track Sec. 4	1 B&D	Gym. Sec. 7
4 P. M.	4 B&D	Baseball Sec. 3	4 B&D	Baseball Sec. 4			4 B&D	Baseball Sec. 4	3 B&D	Track Sec. 3
4 P. M.	5 B&D	Bktbali Sec. 5	5 B&D	Bktbali Sec. 6			5 B&D	Bsktball Sec. 6	4 B&D	Baseball Sec. 3
4 P. M.	6 B&D	Gen Rec Sec. 12	6 B&D	Gen. Rec. Sec. 13			6 B&D	Gen. Rec. Sec. 13	5 B&D	Bsktball Sec. 5
4 P. M.	7 B&D	Boxing Sec. 9	7 B&D	Boxing Sec. 10			7 B&D	Boxing Sec. 10	6 B&D	Gen .Rec. Sec. 12
4 P. M.	8 B&D	Wrest Sec. 9	8 B&D	Wrest Sec. 10			8 B&D	Wrest Sec. 10	7 B&D	Boxing Sec. 9
4 P. M.	10 B&D	Swim Sec. 5	10 B&D	Swim Sec. 6			10 B&D	Swim. Sec. 6	8 B&D	Wrest Sec. 9
5 P. M.	3 B&D	Track Sec. 5	3 B&D	Track Sec. 6			3 B&D	Track Sec. 6	10 B&D	Swim. Sec. 5
5 P. M.	4 B&D	Baseball Sec. 5	4 B&D	Baseball Sec. 6			4 B&D	Baseball Sec. 6	3 B&D	Track Sec. 5
5 P. M.	5 B&D	Bktbali Sec. 7	5 B&D	Bktbali Sec. 8			5 B&D	Bsktball Sec. 8	4 B&D	Baseball Sec. 5
5 P. M.			6 B&D	Gen. Rec. Sec. 15			6 B&D	Gen. Rec. Sec. 14	5 B&D	Bsktball Sec. 7
5 P. M.	111B	Adv Gym	111B	Adv. Gym.			111B	Adv. Gym		
5 P. M.	112B	Adv Boxing	112B	Adv.Boxing			112B	Adv. Boxing	111B	Adv. Gym.
5 P. M.	112B	Adv. Wrest	112B	Adv. Wrest			112B	Adv. Wrest	112B	Adv. Boxing
5 ?. M.			9 B&D	Fencing			9 B&D	Fencing	112B	Adv. Wrest

There are seventy four sections, making a total of one hundred fifty four hours per week of some form of active gymnasium work.
368

There are nine different instructors giving the work in sixteen different types of activities offered.

The department has two chief aims in organizing its work on the basis which I have been explaining. The first and most evident one is that of making each man thoroughly efficient physically in the every day activities of work and play. As in the education of the intellect the importance of developing something more practical than pure and high class mental gymnastics is being recognized, it logically follows that a man who is to be classed as physically educated must have something more than an artificial gymnastic, or a highly specialized education. He must possess the physical abilities which will prove serviceable to the average active red-blooded man. A man must be agile to ensure safety and also to ensure skill in, and thus enjoyment of, physical exertion. He must be able to swim and save himself and, if necessary, be able to save a companion as well. He must be able and willing to fight if the occasion demands it — his assurance and ability to keep going under punishment will stand him in good stead in any walk of life, even though he is never forced to resort to his fists.

Thus a practical sort of efficiency is held up as the ideal toward which every man should strive, and it is very interesting to see the men react to this method of approach. There is a very marked pride taken in the scores received in the various tests, and practically every man demands his three trials before he is willing to accept a low grading.

The physical efficiency score of every man is posted on the gymnasium bulletin board in the following form, and men who have passed with low grading are frequently asking for re-examinations that they may improve their records:

Tabulation of Individual Records in Physical Tests as Posted on the Department Bulletin Boards.

AGILITY TEST	SWIMMING	TEST	DEFENSE

	Vlt P-UJmp			Div Run		Dis Str Spd Dvg				Res	Abl	Agr Apt	
Anewalt, H. P. *19 Novice	3	1	4	3	3	2	2	1	2	2	3	3	3
Angell, N. *20 Provisional	2	1	2	2	3						2	3	3
Angell, H. P. ’19 Athletic	3	2	3	2	2	2	2	2	2	2	3	3	3
Annett, J. P. *18 Special Appeidorn, H. H. *18 Athletic	3	3	2	2	2	3	3	3	2	3	3	3	3
A pie, B. *20 Provisional	2	2	2	3	3								
Arey, H. E. *19 Novice Armstrong, J. I. *18 Special Armstrong, R. S. *19 Athletic	3	1	3	3	2						3	2	2
	2	2	1	1	1	2	1	1	2	1	2	1	1
Araheim, R. L. Novice	3	4	4	3	3	3	4		3	4			

An appeal is thus made to the imagination and interest of the young man, which assures not only the accomplishment in large part of the first and apparent purpose, but also tends to promote the success of the second, arid possibly the more important aim. I refer now to the effort to develop in each individual a liking for physical exertion, a joy in exercise, the establishment of an athletic \ "habit or hobby, a state of mind which will prompt zestful participation throughout life in some form of physical activity. Such an

Digitized by v^ooQle
369

obsession, if we may call it that, is a valuable and attractive sort of general health insurance and a guarantee to the average individual that he will maintain throughout a longer life, a greater efficiency in the continual use of his higher mental and moral, as well as physical equipment.

The following tabulation shows results of the above method of. organization in stimulating interest in the various types of systematic athletic endeavor, both among the lower class men, who are taking the required work, and among the upper class men, who frequent the gymnasium on their own initiative.

These tabulations are the quarterly reports of activities participated in during the two months preceding the date given. Considering the report of November 1st as typical of all four, it should be noted that in. this tabulation — the sum of columns 2 and 4 — some 401 men, juniors and seniors, were taking advantage of the instruction given by the department entirely on their own initiative, which number is greater by 60 per cent than the number of men served under varsity athletics during the same period of time. The varsity men, however, it must be remembered, expended an average of two to three hours per day six days each week in their athletic work, as against an average of one to two hours, two to four days a week for the above mentioned group of 401 men.

The number 1087, column 5, is somewhat misleading because the intramural sports, as is almost universally the case, represent largely a spasmodic participation in sports. The physiological and the hygienic values of intramural sports, as they are generally organized, are greatly over-rated, since such activities generally consist in the running through of a meet, a tournament, or a series involving only a short period of training, or no training at all. Thus it too often means one day of over exertion, or a short season of intermittent over-exertions, since a majority of the original entrants are often eliminated after the first or second contest. It seems that, if intramural sports are to be anything more than a diversion and a source of social interest, they must be under definite direction and so carefully organized that individuals, instead of being constantly shelved may continue from one sport to another or from one series, to another, and thus all be engaged systematically over long enough periods of time to gain real physical training and avoid physical straining.

I	would like to add just one more point in explaining the present organization of the work in this department, namely, that underlying the entire administration of the above plan is the firm conviction that Physical Education must provide the chief laboratory for moral education, and that any type of Physical Education will prove a menace if it fails to produce, as a continual by-product, the qualities of honesty, loyalty and courage.

I

Digitized by ^.ooQle
370

REPORT OF ATHLETIC ACTIVITY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA. NOVEMBER 1st, 1916.

. Enrollment in the Department of Physical Education.

Activity

1	Gymnastics ......................

2	Corrective gymnastics............

3	Track ...........................

4. Football ..... ..................

4. Baseball ........................

4	Soccer ..........................

•5 Basketball ......................

45 Tennis	\

■6 Crew	I

€ Recreation	f..................

6 Golf	)

T Boxing ........ ..................

8	Wrestling........................

8	Jin Jitsu........................

9	Fencing...................

10	Swimming........................

106	Athletic Supervision Lecture ..

107	Practical Conduct of Playgrounds ....

110	Practice Teaching..............

111	Advanced Gymnastics ...........

112	Advanced Boxing and Wrestling..

Total...............................   1443

(1)	(2)	(3)	(4)
For Credit	For Credit	Total	Without Cre
Required	Elective		'f Elective
323		323	3
52		52	1
187	40	227	20
107	27	134	
39		39	6  1 ( ?
104	14	118	i 20
186	29	215	v ,  8
173	78	251	12
94	3	97 ^	12
8	8	8	8
	2	2	12
178	5	1&3	25
	8	8	
	20	20	
	5	5	
	2	2	10
	23	23	*
...1443	264	1707	137

Participation in Intramural	Training	for	Intercollegiate

Sports.	(5)	Activities.	(6)
Baseball	470	Football - Varsity 54	
Football	90	Football - Freshmen 51	105
Tennis	54	Soccer	31
Track	433	Track	115
Swimming	40	Total	,251
	1087		

It was announced last month that there would be no reprints made for the present of the Heinze book on Fencing. Immediately after this announcement was printed, we received an order for a considerable number and decided to make the reprints as soon as it is possible to have the work revised and made ready. Announcement will be made later of the completion of the work so that all who wish to send in their orders may do so, and be sure of sending in the correct address. Do not order now, as there is always a possibility of a change in your address and this will cause unnecessary correspondence to correct. A notice will be inserted in Mind & Body just before we print and that will be ample time for you to send in your orders.

Digitized by AjOOQle
371

THE ECONOMICAL PURCHASE AND USE OF SOFT COAL FOR HEATING HOMES

i _______-	i.	'	.	.	i

A timely circular on the purchase and use of soft coal for house' heating purposes has recently been compiled by the engineering Experiment Station of the University of Illinois. Among other thing the more important factors involved in the installation of a satisfactory and economical house heating system are dismissed,/ and the most economical methods of firing soft coal and operating a house heating plant gre presented. For the Convenience of the householder who desires to place his house heating system in proper condition to derive the benefits of great economy from its operation^ the most vital installation and operating requirements are summarized.

The order ip which the several phases of the subject are discussed corresponds with,that in which the householder normally considers them. In the early summer he looks over his heating system to. see that it is in proper condition for the next heating season.. Next he purchases his coal; finally he is concerned with the problem of operating the system in a manner which will producet the best results.

The information contained in the circular was compiled under the direction, of a committee of which A. C. Willard, assistant professor of Heating and Ventilation at the university, was chairman.

After discussing the requirements to be met by a satisfactory house heating installation, the circular takes up the arrangement of heaters for burning soft coal. Soft coals, it is stated, which swell when heated and also coke, which is more bulky than coal, require larger fire boxes to permit a sufficient amount of fuel to be fired to last between reasonable firing periods. Fire pots for soft coal, in many types of heaters, especially warm air furnaces, are slotted or have a special air supply ring at the surface of the fire to introduce heated air, and thus to provide for more nearly complete combustion of the gases which come from such coal.

Down draft, cast iron and steel heating boilers are now manufactured, and used in large residences and apartment houses for burning soft coal without smoke, or with reduced quantities of smoke. In these boilers air is supplied from above to the fuel, which is burned on a grate composed of hollow bars or tubes containing water. This grate is so placed, just above the ordinary direct draft grate, that the volatile gases from the freshly fired fuel on the upper grate down over the hot surface of thinner well-coked fire which is kept brightly burning on the lower grate. The fire on this secondary or-lower grate fire acts in the presence of sufficient air, to ignite and burn the volatile, smoke-producing gases and sooty products which would otherwise pass through the flues of the boiler and up the chimney unbumed. In this way, not only are the actual smoke-forming products consumed when the furnace is under proper regulation, but all the other burnable gases are completely consumed in the boiler itself, so that more heat per pound of fuel is made available for heating the building. .	1.	’

Digitized by

Google
372

The circular has some good hints on chimney construction. The use of fire clay flue lining throughout the length of the chimney is recommended, both on account of tightness in connection with air leakage but also as reducing the risk of fire in the chimney.

Covering for warm air pipes, as well as for steam and hot water piping is recommended. For air, a 3-ply asbestos paper covering, at least 1-4 inch and preferably 1-2 inch in thickness is desirable.

Recirculation of air in warm kir furnace systems is endorsed by the committee. ' The recirculating duct, taking air from the front hall, instead of from out-of-doors, must be large and practically equal in size to the combined area of the warm air leaders coming from the furnace.

For supplying the necessary amount of moisture to the air, it is recommended that warm-air furnace systems be equipped with an evaporating tank or pan placed above the dome and just beneath the bonnet of the furnace where “it will receive heat enough to evaporate sufficient water effectively to humidify the air going to the rooms.” An automatic ball-cock or feed-valve should be arranged in an external float-tank to keep the evaporating pan constantly supplied with water. A hand-control valve is needed on the line supplying the evaporator, and an overflow should be run from the float-tank. In very cold weather, with the furnace running at full capacity, the hand-control valve must be partially closed at times; otherwise too much water vapor will be sent into the house and the windows will become covered with frost. “The average water pan placed near the bottom of the jacket of warm-air furnaces,” says the report “is ineffective as a means of humidifying the air in a house.”

As regards the equipment of steam and hot water heating plants with humidifying apparatus, it is stated that a satisfactory humidifying system is a more expensive item than in warm-air furnace heating. Water pans on radiators are not generally capable of supplying sufficient vapor to be of any real value. This deficiency is especially true in the case of hot-water systems, in which the radiator temperatures are lower than in a steam system. With a steam plant special valves or cocks may be connected into the steam pipes or radiators and may be used to “bleed” or supply steam direct from the system to the air of the room. This can be accomplished quietly, and if the valves are regulated in accordance with fluctuations in the outside temperature so as not to admit an excess of vapor, frosting of the windows can be prevented and a proper air condition maintained.

There is no simple and effective way of humidifying the air with a hot-water system. Recourse may be had to a large pan of water kept simmering on the kitchen stove with doors between rooms left open as a partial solution of the problem.

Among factors to be considered in the purchase of coal, attention is called to the fact that many users of large amounts of fuel buy their coal on the heat unit basis. It is pointed out that the case with the householder is slightly different from that of the large user. While the heat value of a coal is still the most important

Digitized by Google
373

thing to be considered, other characteristics and factors have a relatively greater bearing upon the problem of the householder than upon that of the large user. The value of a fuel in a house heater is not dependent entirely upon its B. T. U.* value, but to a considerable extent upon the skill of the fireman, the design of the furnace, the method of firing, and the several properties of the coal. For example, careful firing and attention will yield as good results with an 11,000 B. T. U. coal as indifferent methods of firing will produce with a 12,000 B. T. U. coal. Widely different varieties of coal should not be compared solely on the basis of their heating value. The greater convenience in handling and firing, lack of smoke and dirt, and the method of burning are all qualities which distinguish, for instance, the eastern coals from the Illinois coals and make them more desirable. How great a difference in price the house holder is justified in paying for these advantages is, of course, a matter for the individual to decide for himself.

With reference to the selection of different Illinois coals, the

B.	T. U. value and the percentage of ash furnish a general guide to their respective values. The ash content directly affects the B. T. U. value, so that the relative value may be expressed with fair accuracy by the B. T. U. value alone, although the efficiency of any coal drops off more rapidly than its B. T. U. value when the ash content exceeds ten or fifteen per cent.

In order to enable the small consumer to judge as to the relative values of coals offered at different prices a chart has been prepared to show the theoretical value of coals of different heating or B. T. U. values at various prices per ton. A close approximation of the percentage of actual heat producing material in Illinois coal may be obtained by dividing the B. T. U. value of the coal by 155. Thus a 12,000 B. T. U. coal contains 12,000 divided by 155, or 77 per cent of heat producing material.

The householder should remember that the B. T. U. value, as shown by the test of a selected lump or properly taken mine sample does not necessarily coincide with the B. T. U. value of the coal as delivered. Ordinarily, the heat value of well-prepared coal purchased from reputable dealers does not vary more than 4 per cent or five per cent from the analysis of the mine sample. Advertised values, based on “selected” samples may, however, prove misleading. Unscrupulous dealers sometimes take advantage of the house holder’s lack of technical knowledge and deliver poorly-prepared or improperly sized coal which may be greatly deficient in heating value. The precautions which a house holder may take against such a risk are: (a) buy from dealers who are known to be reputable and responsible, (6) examine the coal to see that it is free of impurities and properly sized, (c) in an extreme case, in which the quality of the coal seems to have been grossly misrepresented, have a sample taken and analyzed by a qualified fuel chemist who understands the correct method of sampling.

In order to operate any system of heater drafts successfully, especially with Illinois soft coal with which the circular is chiefly concerned, certain fundamental facts must be understood.

* British Thermal Units.

Digitized by

Google
Digitized by

O :

O

eg

rT

Feedton/r'wrfh be//cock

Overflow

.erfderppe Warm air

Aio/e Tins damper seou/d never be open	M

wbe/fchwck damper is open %

.—TYPICAL WARM-AIR FURNACE, SHOWING DOORS AND DAMPERS FOR ppoppd

JE^GULATION,	K
375

Due to the suction or draft action produced by a good chimney" there is a constant tendehcy for air to enter any opening into the ash pit, c9mbustion chamber, or smoke pipe of a house heater. It is, therefore, necessary to have all such openings controlled by tight-fitting dampers.

Air must be supplied in varying quantities, ranging through wide limits, in order to bum the fuel economically. With Illinois-coal this variation in amount of air required is large and requires-careful attention. It is greatest soon after firing, from which time it should be gradually decreased until the next charge is fired.

Air may be supplied either above (through fire door, see cut, or through special slots or ports) or below (through ash pit door) the burning fuel bed, and sometimes both above and below the bed. Immediately after firing soft coal, when most air is needed, some air must enter above the fuel bed in order to bum the large amount of volatile matter given off from the fresh or “green” fuel charge and to provide sufficient oxygen to insure the burning of the combustible carbon gases given off from the fuel bed. Failure to supply air for this purpose will result in a considerable loss or waste of heat. As (soon as this gaseous matter is burned off the fresh fuel will have become more or less bright on the top by this time) the over-draft through the fire door should be partly closed and the ash-pit damper left partly open. In mild weather, both the ash-pit damper and the overdraft should be closed to prevent the coked fuel now left in the fire from burning out too quickly.

In case the fire must be checked still further, as is true for most of the heating season the check damper (see cut) in the smoke pipe must be opened in order to decrease the draft or suction action of the chimney by admitting cold air directly into the flue. This is-the case when the fire is to be carried overnight without burning out, but there should be no attempt to “hold” a fire in this way unless there is a good bed of fairly well coked fuel already in the fire pot. A fresh fuel charge must always be allowed to bum up somewhat, with overdrafts at fire level open, before attempting to carry it for a considerable period with an open check damper.

In order to promote economy, fire at fairly regular intervals, and put on comparitively small charges of coal frequently rather than large charges at much longer intervals. It is recognized that infrequent firing of large quantities of coal may be the more convenient method, but such convenience can, with the ordinary heater, be obtained only at the sacrifice of economy. Large charges of coal and infrequent firing will increase the chimney losses due to the production of unbumed gases just after firing.

Employ the coking method of firing so far as possible, that is, spread the fresh coal upon a portion of the fire bed only, leaving a portion of the fire glowing brightly so that the gases which arise from the freshly-fired coal may be quickly ignited. As soon as the fresh coal has been coked, it should be spread out over the entire fuel bed. It will then bum as a bright fire without further smoke.

Those heaters which have fire pots sufficiently large to permit the effective use of the coking method of firing by depositing consid-

Digitized by

Google
376

•	erable quantities of coal on one part of the fire bed while the other is glowing and carrying on the combustion can be most economically

•	employed for house heating. Many house heaters have fire pots which are too small to make possible the use of the coking method and its economy.

Keep a fairly thick fire bed, with the surface of the fire well up in the heater. This keeps the fire in the best condition to radiate heat to the heat-absorbing surfaces and prevents the loss of coal to the ash-pit. More ashes can, of course, be carried in the lower part

•	of the fuel bed (see cut) during mild than during cold weather. Do not poke or stir the fire as this is likely to produce clinkers and to cause greater losses both to the ash-pit and to the chimney. For the same reason excessive shaking should be avoided. If clinkers are produced, they should be removed with as little disturbance of the fire-bed as possible. Keep the ashes away from the under side of the grate. Their presence may prevent the inflow of sufficient air, or may deflect the air admitted through a part of the fire-bed only. Thus condition not only interferes with the proper combustion of the coal but may also result in burned out grates.

The heater, while • in service should be kept in good repair throughout. Soot and ashes in the flues or gas passages prevent the heat from passing to the water, steam or air which is to be heated. Flues should be thoroughly cleaned at regular intervals. Some heaters should be cleaned every day, while in general a cleaning about once a week is sufficient. Soot and ashes upon the heating surfaces not only prevent the passage of heat, but may so clog the flues as to interfere with the draft action and thus make satisfactory operation of the heater impossible.

While tests have shown that the actual heat value contained in smoky discharges from the chimney is not very much greater than that contained in discharges which are not smoky, the presence of smoke usually indicates careless methods of firing or improper regulation of dampers with their attendant losses and wastes. If your .chimney smokes continually, or too freely, you may be sure that unnecessary losses are taking place.

• —Heating and Ventilating

Climate and Human Life.—Medical climatology, which deals with the hygienic effects primarily associated with the geographic location of a region or attributable to it, is still far from being anything like an exact science. Many of the health-controlling factors formerly ascribed to the residence of persons or races in special parts of the earth are now known to be incident to causes other than those dependent on what may properly be called climate. Thus the once magnified dangers of the tropical climate have been minimized in many respects by the recognition of their dependence on remediable conditions. The meteorologic difficulties and the upsets in the heat regulation and comfort of the individual have been largely overcome by the introduction •of suitable modes of clothing, by appropriate distribution of the periods of rest and work, and by other personal adjustments. The

Digitized by Tooele
377

menace of tropical diseases has been met by the measures of sanitary science and preventive medicine. The beneficent effects of such innovations have become apparent in the more favorable mortality statistics of places in which the hygiene of today has-found a footing.

Nevertheless there is a widespread conviction that human efficiency is best exemplified in the more temperate zones and that a deadening lethargy is the ultimate consequence of prolonged residence in the hot countries. In view of this there is a peculiar' interest in the recent studies of Ellsworth Huntington* directed to a more exact determination of climatic optima for man. He has selected for his preliminary investigation the relation of temperature to the death rate, the amount of work done by piece workers in factories, and the strength of persons as measured by the dynamometer.

Obviously there are many interfering variables which may upset the validity of statistics of particular regions. Local differences arise from humidity, epidemics, the seasons at which vacations are-taken so that the data for population become less accurate, and other minor causes. Despite this, however, the averages of optimum temperature on the basis of the death rate in four groups, namely, northern, central and southern cities of the United States, and six foreign countries differ surprisingly little, the range being only from 62.7 to 65.8 F. This seems to indicate, according to Hunting-ton’s interpretation, that whether we are dealing with northwestern Europe, the northern, central or southern United States, or an Asiatic country such as Japan, deaths are least numerous at about the same temperature. When allowance is made for the effect of summer vacations in the American cities, it appears that the optimum is probably about 63 F. Since we are dealing with the mean temperature of day and night, such an optimum means that man is physically at his best when the temperature rises to about 70 at noon, but not when it stays all day at that level.

Likewise the factory work of thousands of persons, as shown by Huntington’s statistics, points to the same temperature as the best for human activity. Tests of the strength of individuals suggest a slightly lower optimum, at about 60, but the number of cases is small. The investigations of Rosenau and Thompson also indicate an optimum at 62 or 63. Since Finns, Japanese, Germans and Americans all show essentially the same response, Huntington adds, it seems probable that the optimum temperature for physical activity among people in all sorts of climates does not vary far from 63 F. Even a long residence in a given climate apparently has little effect in causing people to become adjusted to their environment. The Finn still seems to find his climate always too cool, while the Cuban finds his too warm.

1. Huntington, Ellsworth: Temperature Optima for Human Energy, Proc.-Nat. Acad. Sc., 1917, 3, 127.

Digitized by CjOOQle
378

, ini .ii i ■—1—	O

FREE EXERCISES FOR MEN’S CLASSES.*

By EUGENE HOFMEISTER, Buffalo, N. Y.

c)

■d)

a)

b)

c)

-d)

-a)

b)

c)

d)

a)

b)

c)

'Music: “The Winning Fight” by Abe Holzmann.

Explanations: The music embraces the entire march with the exception of the 3 measures proceeding and the 12 measures following the Trio. It is played through once for each group, counting two beats to a measure.

For explanation of terminology refer to “Physical Education.” Vol. II-Emil Rath.

GROUP I. Exercise I.

a)	Place left foot forward and swing arms fore-upward.... 1— 4

b)	’ Layout left backward and swing arms fore-downward and backward............................   :....	5—	8

Straighten right knee close left heel to right, bend knees deep and swing arms fore-upward and sideward

palms up..........:................  ,..........   9—12

Straighten knees and lower arms..................13—16

Repeat all right, left and right.

Exercise II.

Place left foot sideward and bend aims upward..^. 1— 4

1-4 turn left, fall out left forward and straighten

right arm upward and left back-downward.......... 5— 8

1-4 turn right on left heel, raise right leg sideward: swing right arm downward and side-upward and

swing left arm side-upward. ..................... 9—12

Close right heel to left and lower arms side-downward ....................................13—16

Repeat all right, left and right.

Exercise HI.

Place left foot backward, bend upper trunk backward and raise arms sideward, palms up...........

Lunge left forward outward, bend trunk forward and

raise arms upward, fingers touching the floor...

Straighten left knee, raise right leg backward and

swing arms fore-downward and backward............ 9—12

1-8 turn right, close right heel to left and lower arms

to starting position..............................13—16

Repeat all right, left and right.

Exercise IV.

Place left foot sideward, bend right knee and bend

arms to strike from head  :...................... 1— 4

Fallout left backward and strike arms obliquely

side-downward ................................... 5— 8

Straighten left knee, raise left leg forward and swing arms side-upward and forward.................... 9—12

1— 4

5— 8

♦ Submitted for the Brooklyn Turnfest.

Digitized by

Google
d) Close left heel to right and lower arms.....................13—16

Repeat all right, left and right. . .

GROUP II. Exercise I.

a)	Lunge left forward and raise arms sideward palms

up	 —.....................  ......:_1— 4

b)	Layout left backward, swing arms upward and fore-

downward placing hands dn floor.:..'...    ............. 5— 8

(In this exercise the right knee is bent as deeply as possible' and the left foot is placed backward as far

as possible.)

c)	Straighten the right leg backward to support lying

position ............:.................  :.........9—12

d) Jump to fundamental position.......................13—16

Repeat right, left and right.

a) Layout left sideward, bend left arm to strike from

head and place right arm behind back, hand clenched to fist ...•;.......:............................. 1— 4

b)	Fallout left sideward, change arm positions bending

right arm to strike from head and left behind back.. 5— 8

c)	1-4 turn left straighten left knee, raise right leg back-

ward; lower trunk forward and straighten arms sideward ......................................... 9—12

d)	1-4 turn right on left heel, close right heel to left and

lower arms..........................................13—16

Repeat all right, left and right.

Exercise III.

a)	1-4 turn left lunge left forward and swing arms fore-

■ upward............................................ 1— 4

b)	1-4 turn right, change knee bending and 3-4 double

arm circle left, to right lateral position........ 5— 8

c)	Straighten right knee, raise left leg side-ward, bend

trunk right, place right hand on hip and 3-4 aim circle left inward (left arm, trunk and left leg are in a straight line and horizontal)............ 9—12

d)	Close left heel to right, straighten trunk and right

arm andswing left arm side-downward.................13—16

Repeat all right, left and right.

Exercise IV.

a)	1-8 turn left, place left foot backward bend right knee; bend left arm to strike from head (the fore arm is placed in front of the forehead and is horizontal)

. and raise right arm backward..................... 1— 4

b)	1-8 turn left, lunge left forward, kneel right; bend

right arm to strike from head and swing left arm downward and backward  ........................ 5— 8

c)	1-4 turn right, straighten right leg sideward, bend trunk left, place left hand,on floor and swing right arm downward and sideward' (trunk and right leg in

a straight line.)................................ 9—12

d)	Straighten left knee, close left foot to right and

lower arms to fundamental position...............  13—16

Same right, left and right.

Digitized by

Google


380



ATHLETIC NOTES

o	i	■ ■ i ■	o

By E. HAUG, Dewitt Clinton High School, New York City.

Mr. James Ten Eyck, coach of the Syracuse crews recently completed a pleasure jaunt of 150 miles in a rowboat from New York to Albany. Although over 60 years of age he merely undertook the expedition for the love of rowing. He used a craft built somewhat after the pattern of the lifeboats used at the beaches, although it was considerably lighter.

Boxing will be encouraged among soldiers under training in the various army crops is the terse announcement that comes from the commission on training camp activities at Washington.

Some of the men who have already been appointed instructors in the army camps are Benny Leonard, Kid McCoy, Battling Levinsky, Johnny Schiff, Richie Mitchell and Packy McFarland. These and other athletic trainers of American troops are teaching the men in the army that initiative and daring must be tempered with caution and self-control. Boxing contests will be used as an object lesson to illustrate this.

Plans of Instruction.

Exhibition matches are to be strictly secondary. The training will be principally shadow boxing. Matches will take possibly ten minutes of the hour’s training. Classes will be from 75 to 100 men.

The plan of instruction is based on a scheme worked out by Sergt. Billy Armstrong, of the Canadian army. This scheme was found to be not only practicable, but highly successful. The men are placed in lines of files, three or four paces apart, facing the instructor’s platform. The motions taught are very nearly the same motion used in actual bayonet fighting.

In addition to the regular lessons in boxing, the recruits will be shown the relation between boxing and bayonet fighting by motion pictures, in which the fundamental movements in the two methods of fighting will be displayed.

On the Screen.

A film has been made showing Kid McCoy, Jim Corbett, Johnny Kilbane and Leonard going through these blows, slowly for educational purposes and more rapidly for match work.

Through Dr. Joseph E. Raycroft, of Princeton, the commission has arranged for professional boxers to teach men in the training camps who will in turn instruct other groups. Thus every soldier in training will receive some certain amount of training, which will teach them confidence, aggressiveness, shiftiness on their feet and the boxer’s co-ordination of eye and hand.

This is expected to make the men better bayonet fighters, which is the real purpose of the army’s boxing training.—Eve. Mail,	N.	Y.

Digitized by CaOOQle
381

NEW MARK FOR DE PALMA.

Ralph De Palma, the 1917 motor racing champion, added another world’s speed record to his already long list on the Sheeps-head Bay Speedway New York, Nov. 2, at a trial officially supervised by the American Automobile Association. De Palma drove his aviation-motored Packard ten miles in 5:17 :41.

The time made by De Palma, in addition to lowering the world’s class record for cars of 231 to 300 cubic inches, broke the European record of 51:9 :78 for all classes held on the Brooklands, England, course by Driver Hormstedt in a Benz. The motor of De Palma’s car was designed by Major J. G. Vincent, U. S. A., and is the original engine from which the now famous Liberty motor was evolved Tby a board of engineers, headed by Major Vincent.

The ten mile National A. A. W. Running championship was recently won by Villar Kyronen of the Milrose A. C. in 53 min. 41 sec. at Macomb’s Dam Park New York City.

Wm. Plant of the Long Isalnd A. C. won the seven mile A. A. W. Walking championship in 53 min. 4 2-5 sec. There were seven starters.

GIRL SWIMS GOLDEN GATE.

For the first time in the swimming history of the Pacific Coast a woman swam a round trip course across the Golden Gate, San Francisco on Nov. 7. She was Miss Hazel Cunningham, an eighteen-year-old nurse. Her time was one hour, thirty-five minutes and twenty-five seconds. The course each way was seven-eighths of a mile. The swim was unofficial but had the sanction of the Pacific Coast Athletic Association.

The Junior Cross-Country Championship under the auspices of the A. A. U. was won Nov. 10, by G. T. Nightingale, New Hampshire State College, in the remarkable time of 33 min. 26 sec. The distance was 6 miles over the famous Van Cortlandt Course, New York City. The greatest interest in the competition of the seventeen teams was taken in the performance of the representatives of the newly formed army teams. Four teams from the. service competed.

STADIUM AT WISCONSIN.

A new stadium was dedicated recently by the University of Wisonsin at Madison, Wis. The occasion was the Wisconsin-Minnesota football fray. : The new athletic plant will be one of the best equipped in. the Middle West when it is completed, seating ten thousand persons.	■

Work on the stadium was begun March .16, 1916. To date, the total- expenditure for construction has been $30,765. The

Digitized by

Google
382

original appropriation made by the Wisconsin State Legislature Oct. 27, 1915, for building this stand was $20,000. The alumni of the University of Wisconsin gave $2,079, and,a new appropriation of $10,000 was made by the Legislature July 2, 1917.

The entire stadium is made of concrete and steel, and extends the length of the playing field. A hill formed a natural foundation for the structure, yet considerable grading was necessary before actual construction of the stand could be started. Further work on the stadium will be done from time to time, as the Legislature makes new appropriations for its construction.

MILITARY TRAINING NOT A SUCCESSFUL SUBSTITUTE FOR ESTABLISHED SCHOOL SYSTEMS.

A report prepared for the Department of the Interior at the direction of P. P. Claxton, United States Commissioner of Education, states that in no country in the world do educators regard military instruction in the schools as “a successful substitute for the well-established systems of physical training and character building.” The report was written by W. S. Jesien, a member of the Bureau of Education, “to meet the demand for information as to what provision is made in the several countries of the world for military teaching for boys,” Its conclusions are based on a survey of conditions in the British Empire, France, Germany, Austria-Hungary, Switzerland, Sweden, Norway, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Russia, the Netherlands, Greece, Japan; Mexico, Argentina, and Bolivia.

“Military instruction of the exact nature and to the same extent as that given to soldiers is not found in the schools of any country of Europe except the special military schools,” the report says in part. “Such training is confined everywhere to the period of active service, and no attempt has ever been made to impose upon the school the task of producing fully trained soldiers. In many countries having universal military service the public schools provide for training boys in such elements of military science as can be conveniently combined with their physical training and at the same tirtie prepare them for the active service awaiting every young man.”

Of the attitude among educators in general toward military instruction, Mr. Jesien writes that “they generally view it as an anomaly in the school system, justified only by the exigencies of national defense. The enthusiastic support they lend this work,” the report goes on, “comes more from patriotic than from pedagogic motives. Occasionally, however, the beneficial effects of military training upon the moral and physical sides of boys’ education are emphasized. Very marked results of this nature have been observed in Australia which should have more than passing mention.

“In France, where, military training is. a component part of the prescribed program of public primary schools,, it is not approved by leading educators as a method of physical, training, but it is recognized and commended as preparatory training for .military
383

service, intended to raise the efficiency of the French Army. The-programs of public schools in France, include gymnastics and moral instruction, the former as a means of-building up the physique of the boys and the latter of developing their character. It is generally recognized that these two objects of education cannot be perfectly attained by any system of military training.”

Mr. Jesien calls attention to the fact that it is a feature of all! militaristic movements affecting schools that they appear “where-ever and whenever special need is felt for raising the standard of military preparedness of the nation.” In France, he writes, this movement made itself felt after the disastrous war of 1870 and also when the period of military service was reduced in 1905.

“In Austria,” he writes, “intensive military work in schools was launched after a similar reduction of the term of service. In Switzerland and Australia it accompanied the introduction of an abbreviated system of universal military service. During the period from 1908 to 1914, when apprehension of the oncoming European conflict was keen among the nations of the Continent,, the training of school youths in warlike exercises was greatly extended. In Germany, according to the Koerperliche Erziehung, schoolboys were attracted in this period to numerous civilian rifle clubs and semi-military organizations.

“In a certain sense all work of a military nature performed by schoolboys, whether compulsory or voluntary, whether promoted by the State or by private agencies, and whether in the nature of extensive military training or of simple close order drill, is worthy of note in the present consideration. The differences that appear between the countries here treated are chiefly those of degree of universality and thoroughness of the training. Australia and Switzerland have the best organized systems of preparatory military training; in both these countries this work is regarded as a part of the regular military training provided for the army, the school simply relieving the military establishment of a part of its-task, and shortening thereby the term of training in the active service.

“In other countries, like Great Britain, the work appears in an unorganized, sporadic, and limited form, or in conjunction with training for other purposes. Between the two extremes represented by Switzerland and England there are several intermediary forms, such as (a) prescribed military drill, but in a limited extent, or

(b)	thorough military training, but conducted by outside agencies and therefore not obligatory, or (c) prescribed military training limited to certain schools, etc.”

The following outline of systems prevailing in the various countries is contained in the report :

England—Strictly voluntary work carried on by private agencies.

Australia—Military instruction compulsory for all boys from 12 to 18 years of age.

New Zealand—Military instruction compulsory for boys over 14 years of age.

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
384

Canada—Military instruction carried on in voluntary cadet 'Corps.

France—Prescribed military instruction without arms, and rifle practice in the elementary and higher elementary schools. Rifle practice limited to boys over 10 years of age. Specially trained instructors. Strong organizations carry on the work of military preparedness among older boys.

Germany—Voluntary organizations of older public school pupils and students of secondary schools. Training without arms. Decrees issued during the war provide for preparatory military training of all boys over 16 years of age.

Austria—Voluntary organizations for military training of pupils of secondary schools, under Government protectorate. Optional rifle practice in the last two years of secondary schools.

Hungary—Military training obligatory in the last three years of certain gymnasia designated by the Government. Voluntary rifle clubs in secondary schools. Military drill in primary schools.

Switzerland—Instruction in military gymnastics in elementary schools obligatory throughout the school age. Conducted by specially trained instructors. Voluntary rifle practice and military drill both with and without arm3.

Sweden—Compulsory rifle practice in public secondary schools for boys from 15 to 18 years of age. Given by special instructors.

Norway—Voluntary rifle practice.

Italy—Military training given as obligatory subject in “national colleges.’' Private agencies provide for simple military drill for younger boys.

Spain—No distinct military training is given. Some simple drill is included in the program of physical training.

Portugal—No military training is given in schools. The subject of “physical culture,” which is taught generally, includes simple drill without arms. Boy Scout organizations are numerous.

Russia—Prescribed military gymnastics in elementary and secondary schools.

Netherlands—Military training given in voluntary organizations for boys over 15 years of age.

Greece—Very intensive military instruction is given in gymnasia, under the patronage of the King. Simple drill obtains in . all public schools in connection with physical training.

Japan—Military gymnastics obligatory in elementary, second-. ary, and normal schools.

Mexico—Obligatory military drill with arms in all primary . and secondary schools. Regulated by State laws.

Argentina—Obligatory military training in the last two years . of secondary schools. Specially trained instructors.

Bolivia—Simple drill in connection with gymnastics.

Digitized by Google
I	NOTES	AND	COMMENTS	|

o—-I. I -1.	- II .11	I	o

NEW PUBLIC HEALTH CHARTS' AVAILABLE FOR'.

TEACHERS.

Education in personal hygiene by means which respond in1 every way to the needs of this ideographic age is offered in the new series of health charts just issued from the American Museum of Natural History, New York City, as originally prepared under-the direction of Dr. C. E. A. Winslow, Curator of its Department of Public Health.

These charts are especially adaptable for schools where it may not be possible or desirable to use educational films, and may be easily transported.

The teachers of the public schools of the metropolis are so-fortunate as to be able to obtain the loan of them without any expense.

The Departments of Public Health and Public Education of the Museum five years ago prepared three series of public health charts for the use of schools of New York City. Each consisted of a folio of wall charts illustrated from original photographs and devoted to the following subjects:	“The	Spread and Prevention

of Communicable Disease,” “Insects as Carriers of Disease,” and: “Bacteria and Their Work in the World.”

The demand for these in the schools was many times greater than the supply, and doubtless many teachers were discouraged in their efforts to obtain them. As a step toward meeting this demand the Museum has just issued a new edition of the set entitled, “The Spread and Prevention of Communicable Disease,”" in sufficient number, the institution hopes, to supply all the schools of the city.

On each is a large engraving delineating by scenes from life the mistakes of diet and bodily care which lead to human ills.

The charts are 22x28 inches each and each set consists of 15 charts on heavy paper, bound at top and bottom with tin, and suited in every way for hanging on the wall. Although each chart is clearly labeled the sets are accompanied by a booklet containing information which may be of service to teachers in talks on that important subject of physical well-being.

The delivery and collection of the charts are being attended to by the Muesum. As with the circulating collection of natural history specimens, the loan period is three weeks.

Owing to the numerous requests from educational institutions outside of the city arrangements have been made to offer a limited number of sets for the nominal price of $6.00 each, express charges extra.

Educators both in New York, and in other parts of the country,.

Digitized by kjOOQle
386

•who desire further information regarding the new edition may •obtain it by addressing George H. Sherwood, Curator Department of Public Education, American Museum of Natural History, New York City.

The Capitol District Physical Directors’ Society is composed of all persons living in or near the Capitol District of New YQrk State who are interested in the advancement of general physical training. This Society has been in existance for several years. The officers and Executive Committee for 1917-1918 are as follows:

President, Laurence S. Hill, Director of Physical Training Albany Public Schools.

Vice-Pres., A. T. Brown, Physical Director, Morris Memorial, Chatam, N. Y.

Secretary, Caroline C. Johnson, Physical Director for Girls, High School, Albany, N. Y.

Treasurer, Anna M.< O’Keeffe, Ass’t, Physical Director for Girls, High School, Albany, N. Y.

William Stark, Supervisor of Physical Training, County Schools Schenectady, N. Y.

Jeanne M. Gray, Director of Physical Training, State College for Teachers, Albany, N. Y.

Daniel Kelly, Assistant State Inspector of Physical Training, for Private and Parochial Schools.

At the first meeting of the Society in September, there were about 150, people present. Mr. Daniel Chase and Mr. William Geer, of the New York State Military Training Commission presented working plans of the Welsh-Slater Physical Training Law. This was followed by a general discussion of the difficulties involved in its operation.

At the second meeting of the Society the Executive Committee outlined the work for the coming year. It was planned to have progressive lessons in military tactics, general gymnastics, dancing, games, etc., and to have at least one prominent physical educator address the Society.

Program of the First Meeting of Capitol District Physical Directors Society Saturday Sept. 29, at 9:30 A. M., at the Albany High School.

Military tactics Typical setting-up drill Organization of boys and girls’ clubs.

Directed play.

' Program of the Second Meeting Capitol District Physical Directors’ Society October 20, 1917—Albany High School—9:30

A.	M.

9:30—10:00—Military Tactics................Guerdon	Messer

• New York State Military Training Commission

.10:00—10:30—Dance-Espana (review).........Lawrence	S.	Hill

Phys. Director of Public Schools Albany.

Digitized by CjOOQle
387

10:30—11:00—Gymnastic Drill..................Daniel Chase

New York State Military Training Commission

11:00—11:30—School room Games________________William Stark

County Schools, Schenectady 11:30-—12 ;00—Organization of Squads, for Group Work . .	Leaders:	Mr. Maroney—Apparatus

Miss O’Keeffee—Apparatus Miss Clohessy—Games Mrs. Bromley—Athletics Girls Mr. Dickenson—Athletics Boys 12:00— 1:Q0—Lunch

1:00— 1:30—Danish Folk Dance—.The Hatter................

...... , .	Miss	Elizabeth	Burchenal

New York State Military Training Commission

1:30— 2:0B—Playground Games.......	W.	C. Batchelor

Phys. Dir. Renssalaer Polytechnic Institute

University of California, Berkeley, California.

September 25, 1917.

The Physical Education Department of the University of California had what was generally considered its most successful season. Over three thousand of the four thousand students registered in the Summer Session were enrolled in one or more of the courses in the Department.

Among its faculty were to be found the names of Dr. James Huff McCurdy, Mr. George Edward Dickey, Mr. Edward B. De-Groot, Professor Clark W. Hetherington, Professor C. C. Mauthe, Madame Ney’sa Mathe Wihr, Miss Mabel W. Lane, Miss Cadwell, Mr. Cozens, Mr. Trieb, and of twenty-three others of like significance in the physical education field.

. . The courses offered covered the field of gymnastics, athletics, playground work, boy scouting, dancing, and the work of the Campfire Girls and general theory.

The general recreation of the Summer School students was also promoted through a social hour each day for games and instruction in social dancing, through Friday evening dances and through weekly tramping parties through the hills or a boat excursion on the San Francisco Bay.

A HEATING SYSTEM OF KOREA.

A novel heating system called ondol has been devised by the Japanese living in Korea so that they may withstand the rigorous winter climate of, that peninsula. In this arrangement the whole floor serves as a stove. The floor is first made with a layer of mud which is intersected by three or four flues which radiate from the fire-place and converge into the chimney on the other side of the room., Large slabs of stone are laid over the mud floor, the joints being made air-tight with clay. A layer of clay is then added on top of the stone and finally the whole is covered with thick oiled paper.

Digitized by LjOOQLe
388

The fireplace is outside of the wall and the smoke and heat pass through the flues in the floor to the opposite side of the house. In this way the whole room is effectively warmed. It is said that no stove is needed in such a room even on exceedingly cold day. —From BvUetin 39 0/ the Japan Society.

The Physical Training Round Table of the Kansas State Teachers’ Association met in the city auditorium of Topeka, November 8th.

The theme for this year was “Military Training in the Public Schools”. It was to have been discussed from the standpoint of a military official by Major General Leonard Wood; from a college view point by Professor Briggs of Kansas University and from a public school view point, by Leslie Lasey of Independence. At the last moment General Wood was called from the state.

In general the speakers gave out these ideas:

Training for all under 18 years of age—call it pre-military or anything you like—with the following aims:

1.	Make 95 per cent of our boys physically fit.

2.	Develop character.

3.	Create a desire for military training.

For all over 18, a compulsory military training, not for public schools alone but make it universal.

Lora M. Lock.

Secretary.

BOOK REVIEWS

“Physical Training for Special Classes” by Elizabeth O’Neill. 61 pages, 5 1-2 by 8 1-2 inches. Published by the Board of Public Education of Philadelphia, Pa.

In this manual Miss O’Neill, assistant to the director of physical education in the schools of Philadelphia, has gathered much helpful material for the teachers of children of slow mentality. A statement relative to the booklet says:

“The manual contains material which will be found helpful for both the physical and mental growth of the child. It is advisable to give as much time as possible for the promotion of the physical growth since little can be accomplished with the mental growth if the physical is neglected.

Physical work for the special class pupil cannot be standardized so completely as that for the pupil of regular classes. Each special class has problems so different from those of other classes that the work must be planned by each teacher for her own class, employing the suggestions as outlined for regular classes in Handbook No. 1 for grades 1, 2 and 3 as a general guide. The work, however, should be modified to suit the particular conditions.”

The booklet should be of great value to all teachers of special classes as it is filled with games, plays and other exercises with suggestions for their adaptation to special class work.

Digitized by LjOOQle