MIND AND BODY

MAY, 1913.

▼ol. 20.

No 219

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D.	M. £ERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Haivard University. Cambridge, Mask.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa#

Cditonal communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business' letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing < 0., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

THE EFFECT OF SCHOOL LIFE ON THE PHYSICAL $HILD»

By THEODORE TOEPEL, M. D., Atlanta, Ga.

As an introduction to my paper it may be interesting to refer to the physiological development of the normal child, limiting myself as much as possible to the school age.

Weight. According, to Bowdith, observations were made upon children of American parentage in the public schools of Boston upon 4,327 boys and 3,681 girls. The. slowest gain in weight was found to be from the sixth to the eighth year, when it is about four pounds a year. From the eighth to the eleventh year it- rises to about 6ix pounds a year. Up to the eleventh year the two sexes gain in about the same ratio. From the eleventh to the thirteenth year the girls gain much more rapidly, passing the boys for the first time and maintaining this lead until the fifteenth year, where again the boys pass them, '

Height. From the sixth to the eleventh year the increase in height is quite uniform in both sexes, it being between two aqd three inches a year. After the eleventh year in girls and the twelfth in boys, the growth is much more rapidly. In height the girls exceed the boys at the twelfth and thirteenth year for the only time in their growth.	,

Increase in girth is much less rapid than in length, until about fourteen. We find in the study of the child in the grammar grades, that is, from eleven to fourteen years of age that the short and small trunk with the relatively long legs is a source of weakness at this time. The vital organs in the trunk have not kept pace with the legs in their rate of growth. Hence there is a rise in the amount of sickness throughout this period.

Increase in the growth of the lungs is usually rapid in the boys between the ages of six to ten, but slackens during the next three years. There is nearly always a marked acceleration of growth at fourteen and again at sixteen. There is little difference between the *

* Read at the Convention of the American Physical Education Association, Newark, N. J.,^ March, 1913.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 90 —

sexes until the ninth or tenth year. In the boy the capacity doubles between ten and sixteen, in the girl it is far less and usually irregular. Between five and ten the girl h$s nine-tenths, of the relative vital capacity of the boy. Between eleven and fourteen she usually falls behind rapidly. This is the period when she needs a large supply of oxygen in the. blood. During puberty, and probably before also. Bright pupils have a constant and marked superiority in this respect' The importance of well oxygenated blood for vigor and efficiency of the brain, as well as for the general health, cannot be over-estimated. Physical training has its good effects on the vital capacity of the boy as well as on the girl. Gilbert (Besearches on Mental and Physical Development of School Children) observed that dull pupils have a smaller lung capacity than bright ones at all ages during the puberal period. Increased vital capacity proves beneficial to the menial as. well as to the physical well-being of many weak and backward boys £$d girls at that period. These findings are corroberated by the results obtained in the open-air schools'of Chicago, «Table No. 1, 367 children. Improved 90 per cent., Not improved 10 per cent. Discharged to regular day school 15 per cent., Discharged to sanatorium 2 per cent. Table No. 2, Weight with feeding 285 children, Gained 90 per cent. Same 3 per cent.. Lost 6 per cent. Table No. 3, Scholarship 195 children, Gained 67 per cent. Same 23 per cent., Lost 7 per cent.

Metabolism. During childhood the largest part of the food consumed is used in the repair of the tissues, the formation of new cells and the enlargement of those already formed. Prof. Atwater tells us that the boy of fifteen or sixteen requires ninety per cent, of the food ration of the adult engaged in moderate muscular work, the girl of the same age requires about eighty per cent. Boys at twelve and girls at thirteen or fourteen require seventy per cent. The child from six to nine requires about fifty per cent. The young child requires about twice as much food for each pound of weight as the adult. Growth is a very expensive process and demands the combustion of a large amount of nutriment, more than is consumed by active muscular exercise. Most of our diseases are due in last analysis to malnutrition or to lack of assimilation. It is true indeed that “the digestive system, rather than the brain, is the foundation of all greatness/’ It has been convincingly demonstrated by the best authorities that a long noon recess with ample time for a warm lunch and rest and out door exercise helps metabolism and the quality of work all around. The single session lasting continuously for many hours and postponing, if not destroying, the noon day meal, is anything but hygienic. On account of climatic conditions we in Atlanta have found it impracticable to have the long noon recess during which the child may go home to a warm meal, but we do allow 30 minutes, of recess, during which time in a large number of our schools the neighborhood mother clubs have instituted one cent warm lunches composed of ivholesome, nourishing food. This plan has become very popular and is being copied by other Southern cities.

Neuro-muscular system. The relation between the muscular and nervous system is exceedingly close. Every change or current in the

Digitized by CjOOQle
— »1 —

nervous system expresses itself through some change in the muscles; and every movement of our muscles reacts upon our nervous system. In passing it is interesting to note that in the new bom babies the muscles form about one-fourth of the weight, and that between birth and maturity they increase about thirty-seven fold.

Growth of the Brain. According to Vierordt the brain forms 12.29 per cent, of the weight of the body at birth, in the adult, 2.15. per cent. It doubles its weight during the first eight or nine months, and trebles it by the end of the third year, at the end of the seventh year its weight is not very much less than at ‘maturity.

Everywhere * in the nervous system we find steadily increasing complexity. First come the simplest reflexes, then the more complex. The sensory centers mature separately, then the motor; then these become connective with one another. Thus the best and most efficient brain is not necessarily the largest and heaviest, but the one in which the largest possible number of the very best connections have been made in childhood.

With these facts at hand it is forcibly impressed upon those who mould the lives of children that the most earnest and careful thought must be exercised when their conventional school life is planned for them. > At present an ordinary school program looks pretty full. We have a long record of break downs and nervous collapses, temporary disablements and some lasting injuries. We are confronted with the question:	“How	can	this	difficulty	be	adjusted?” In the first place,

by eliminating unessential details from the curriculum, then by proper distribution of the work so that the different parts may be introduced at times when there is the least friction and resistance in the assimi-, lating process within the brain, when there is an awakening interest. Groszmann in his splendid work “The Career of the Child” says: '“That reading and writing are identical with ‘learning* in the minds of still too many is obvious when one studies the outline of the curriculum of the lower grades. Children of six or seven years of age are far sighted, and the fine adjustment to the requirements of the printed page are directly injurious. Then there is the evident lack of muscular control in eye and hand at this stage in both reading and writing. Even the body posture is an element in this adjustment, and if the child is forced at an early age to assume strained position for the purpose of those finer specializations of movements as required by reading and writing in books, he may suffer in consequence. It is a notable fact that visual defects increase in number and percentage in the child’s progress from the lower to higher grades in school.” We all know that lateral curvature of the spine and round shoulders are of frequent occurepce in the school child, many of these cases are prob-. ably caused, due to the relative plasticity of the bone and periods of rapid growth, accompanied by lax muscular tone, but we cannot deny the fact that faulty attitudes in sitting, favored by improper school furniture, furnishes a large percent of these bone deformities. Figures show conclusively that lateral curvature and round shoulders are a constantly increasing affection during school life. It is, therefore, obviously important that school children he furnished seats and desks which favor proper attitudes in sitting and writing.
The pernicious over-burdening of pupils with home lessons should be wholly eliminated from the child's school life, at least from all primary grades, and when we cease to crowd large numbers in classes and no teacher is required to ever have more than 40 pupils, the plan of abolishing all home lessons in grammar schools will be possible. That this requirement of home work lessens the child's opportunity for free play and rest is obvious, and teachers should be cautious and reasonable in this matter. .

School physicians are coming to our aid in remedying what seems the sins of the school toward the physical child. The fact that there is a close relation between body and mind is now generally recognized and is being more and more understood and scientifically determined. In the words of Bain, “The organ of mind is not the brain by itself; it is the brain, nerves, muscles, organs of sense and viscera." It is encouraging to note the universal adoption of the regularly appointed school physician who assists the teacher in recognizing diseases common to children, though a simple diagnosis of common children troubles should also be made by the class teacher herself. It is now well known among educators that mental and moral disorders and defects are often only symptoms or defects of disease. A recent report of medical inspection of Atlanta Schools is as follows:	Out	of	45

white schools, number of children examined, 13,944; number normal, 8,563; number defective, 5,411; per cent, defective, 32.2; number and nature of defects, malnutrition, 548; anaemia-, 332; pediculosis, 371; eye defects, 616; enlarged glands, 1,105; defective teeth, 3,501; tonsils, 1,420; nasal breathing defect, 876; skin diseases, 78; heart, 113; lungs, 94; nervous, 29; ears, 24; bone, 18; no vaccination scar? 970; exclusions: for parasites on head, 275; chicken pox, 3; temperature, 101—103.5; sore throats, 20; lungs, 13; infectious skin diseases, 11; pink eye diseases, 9. This report shows that in comparison the physical conditions of school children in Atlanta, Georgia, is on the average of other cities and still it is alarming. It shows again that the child at school is more susceptible to disease than at home. Though I believe the average child is better off at school than at home, yet the school must fit the child in course, methods, training and instruction. Let us not forget that in assigning work our question should always be: ‘‘What and how much will best promote growth? not, How much can the child endure? Power and character should be the ultimate aim ih the individual."

With the necessity of careful control in infectious diseases and even the employment of rigid measures on the part of school authorities it is often found that parents, and at times even their family physicians are disinclined to submit to the inconvenience which is caused by quarantine precaution. Careful and conscientious watching is also required in other troubles which often produce serious effects on the mental, moral and physical condition of pupils. They are, as pur report shows, mainly defects of eyes, ears, nose and throat. Impaired hearing is also very often responsible for much seeming in-, efficiency in the school room. This is frequently caused by adenoid vegetations in the nasal-pharingeal passages.

Digitized by LaOOQle
Key in “Schulhygienische Untersuchungen” admits and emphasizes the responsibility of school life with its confinement and over pressure for the high rate of sickness among the pupils. But he argues with good reason, for the connection of the course of the curve of morbidity with pubertal development. The curve rises until thirteen or fourteen, which is the period of most rapid increase of height. As soon as the more rapid increase of weight begins there is an increase of power of resistance, and the rate of morbidity sinks.

Much has been accomplished by the authorities who are shaping the principles of education and yet at its foundation, with the child as its basis, much more can be done by which the child must triumphantly survive. Permit me to suggest in conclusion what I would term a few remedies for conditions now existing in the child’s school life which, above all, would promote its physical welfare.

A course of study, elastic and rational, in form, which follows natural lines of growth is the only one by which wholesome work is accomplished. That is “a detailed cast iron prescription” must make room for the course of study which has the character of an outline tp be filled in, carefully planned to balance the pupil’s power of application. As the hours of the day have different energy values, the work for forenoon and afternoon must differ in character. The length of instruction periods should be adjusted according to fatigue values of studies and a very clear conception as to where stimulation and#exer-cise are needed is essential in planning a child’s work. Recesses must be so distributed as to afford the greatest relief and recreation at the proper juncture.

One of the healthiest indications of bringing the child back to nature is the institution of school excursions popularly known as “Wanderlust” under the direction of class teachers and physical directors. These excursions are arranged for the purpose of studying the country, plant and mineral life and of ministering to healthful exercise.

A general appeal should be made to school authorities to recognize the great value of this feature of school life and an agitation for its universal adoption should be started.

In this gathering it is hardly necessary to dwell upon the fact that the advantageously located school building, equipped and arranged on modern lines embraces a very important factor in the child’s school life.

WE OFFER $1.00 FOR ONE COPY OF NUMBER 72, VOLUMNE 7, OF “MIND AND BODY.”

Wanted

By the PHILADELPHIA TURNGEMEINDE a Competent Teacher in Swimming, to take charge of its NATATORIUM. None but a first class teacher need to apply. Address

G. A. Wiedemann, 1705 N. Broad St.,

Philadelphia, Pa.

Digitized by Google
— 94 —

A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC

UNION.

By HENRY METZNER.

(Translated from the German by Theo. Stempfel, Jn)

German-American gymnastics, as embodied in the North American Gymnastic Union, -date back to the middle of the last century, the history of the Union embracing over sixty years of tireless activity. Since the days of its beginning, when the ambitious and inspired young men, imbued with the spirit of progress and freedom, transplanted the ideals of Jahn to American soil, this organization has cleared its own path and, in spite of numerous internal and external conflicts, has never lost sight of the ultimate goal.

The impetuosity of the early days has made way for the thoughtful deliberation of later years, to which the Turnerbund owes its flourishing Normal College, its many successful turning schools, its influence upon the public school system throughout the land, as well as the spirit of unity and brotherhood, which inspires the individual members.

THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE TURNERBUND.

The first gymnastic societies in the United States were organized toward the close of the year 1848. Until the middle of the fifties all of these societies owed their flourishing state to the many German immigrants, who came to this country when the revolutionary movement in Germany in 1848-1849 was suppressed. For all those who had been friendly to the cause of the people were forced to flee from their native land in order to escape persecution and the pressure of the reaction. Among the thousands of political refugees that fled to American soil, there were many who had been members of a Turn-verein, who prized the cause of turning, and who were eager to establish it in their new'home.

Although there was no legislative barrier to the founding of these organizations, the influence of the Emow-Nothing party, narrow minded, puritanical and opposed to everything foreign, was used against these societies. These men wdio had sacrificed all for their ideals, and had ' come to this country as political refugees, were not received with open arms, but were regarded by many with mistrust and suspicion. It was not easy for them to overcome these barriers and to establish gymnastic societies. V:	'	~	’	''	;

The oldest Turnverein in the United States which flourishes to the present day, is the Cincinnati Turngemeinde, founded November 21, 1848, at the instigation of .Friedrich Hecker. The New York Turngemeinde was also organized in 1848. The Philadelphia Turngemeinde, w’hich today is considered one of the strongest societies in the Bund, was founded May 15, 1849. Internal dissensions arose, and the dissatisfied members established the Sociale Turngemeinde in November of that year. A third society, the Socialer Turnverein, was organized at almost the same time. Several.months after the gymnastic festival of the Bund, in 1854, these three societies combined to

Digitized by Google
— 95 —

organize the Socialdemokratische Turngemeinde. A society with a similar name was founded in Baltimore in 1849. Very little is known of the Socialistischer Turnverein of Brooklyn, established in 1850 and dissolved during the civil war. On June 6, 1850, the Socialistischer Turnverein of New York was founded.

These six societies had barely gained a foothold when they established a Turnerbund. The Socialistischer Turnverein of New York gave the first impetus to this end in its resolution of July 15, 1850, urging a closer union of all the societies in order to insure their own existence, to protect the common interests and to give a basis for mutual co-operation. A plan of organization presented by the representatives of the New York and Brooklyn societies was accepted, and it was further resolved to invite representatives of all the societies to a convention (Tagsatzung), which was finally held in the home of the Philadelphia Turngemeinde on the 4th and 5th of October, 1850. Many differences of opinion came to light at this first meeting, particularly on political questions, for one party wished to make the promotion of Socialism* one of the main functions of the organization. The other faction advocated that the Turnverein should confine itself soiely to physical training. On one point, however, all were agreed, that the Turnerbund should manifest a tendency toward freethought in the broadest sense.

The first year of the gymnastic union did not pass as smoothly as had been hoped. The societies had not come to realize their duties toward the central organization and barely heeded the proclamation of the provisional central executive committee. The Philadelphia Turngemeinde invited all the societies to take part in a general gymnastic festival v to be held in that city September 29 and 30, 1851, and the executive committee took advantage of this opportunity to call together a second convention.

The Turnfest and the convention proved to be complete successes, according to the first number of the Turnzeitung, the official organ of the Bund. At the convention the following societies were represented: New York, Boston, Cincinnati, Brooklyn, Utica, Philadelphia and Newark. The Indianapolis Turngemeinde, as well as the Rochester Turnverein, had signified their intention of joining the Turnerbund. After a heated debate it was finally decided to name the organization Socialistischer Turnerbund. The most important resolution was undoubtedly that which called for the establishment of a newspaper which was to be the official organ of the union, and was to be kept free of all personal polemics and of any tendency toward partisanship. The societies were reminded of their duty to maintain the practice of military drill.

When the Turnerbund had finally been assured of a permanent organization, the practice of the German system of physical training wais gradually taken up by all the large cities in the land. Even in the South, although the Germans were not so numerous as they were farther north in the East and in the West, and although the Turnerbund was' not in accord with the South on the question of slavery, many gymnastic societies were organized. These societies had become the gathering places for the Germans. Vehement opposition toward

Digitized by Goodie
96

these so-called "aliens” was gradually evinced by the fanatic party press, and from the pulpit they were scored for their un-Christian conduct and attitude. As a result of this many-sided opposition, the Tum-vereine gathered strength and gradually gained influence and the respect of fair-minded citizens.

It is characteristic of those days that the revolutionary, tendency which had driven these men from their fatherland was still maintained. Political refugees received their support; an agitation was on foot to encourage their erstwhile brothers to renewed revolutionary demon-- tefrations; the resolution by which the societies were urged to continue the practice of arms was prompted by a desire to return to Germany at the first sign of an outbreak, and to take an active part in the uprising of the people.

The Turnzeitung of November 15, 1851, showed that 22 societies had been organized in the United States, of which 11 had joined the Turnerbund, and that the total membership of these Turnvereine a -mounted to 1,672. Much space in’this paper was devoted to the practice of physical training and to illustrated articles on this subject. The larger societies established'turning schools, and the first attempts were made to initiate boys and girls in this new practice.

Physical training bore the stamp of Jahn’s time. There were no professional teachers of physical trainings and classes were conducted by those best qualified. The gymnastic apparatus was of primitive awkward construction in comparison with that of today.

In the year 1852 two gymnastic festivals were held, one in Baltimore and one in Cincinnati. Thirty societies were represented at the convention held in conjunction with the Tumfest in Cincinnati. A resolution was passed at this meeting by which each gymnastic -society was forced to subscribe for as many copies of the Turnzeitung as it had niembers. This resolution later became the bone of bitter contention.	-

The book on gymnastics which was published in 1853 under the title "Das Turnen,” did not meet with the popular success which had been expected for it. It had been written by Eduard Mueller with the hope that it would help the smaller gymnastic societies in the practice of physical training, but it contained so many technicalities of language that it proved of no value to those who were acquainted with the terms applied to the many physical 'exercises.

Gymnastic festivals were held in Louisville and in New York in the year 1853, and in September of the same year a convention was called at' Cleveland. At this time the Turnerbund was divided into five districts, according to locality. An executive committee was placed at the head of each district, and these in turn made their reports to the central organization. *

At the convention in Cleveland it had been resolved to urge the establishment of non-sectarian German schools. Many societies sought to realize this ambition and either organized Schulvfereine (school societies) or lent their financial support to those which were already in existence. Many a German-American school of that time owed its success to the energy and efforts of the Turnvereine, which thus honored German traditions.
— 97 —

The otherwise extremely successful Turnfest in Philadelphia, 1854, at which calisthenics and apparatus turning by divisions were first introduced, was attended with unpleasant disturbances. The town rowdies and loafers gathered at the outskirts of the festival grounds on Lemon Hill, and sought in various ways to disturb the gymnasts. The jeering and hooting grew to such volume that the Turners saw themselves forced to reply with physical violence, whereupon a hand to hand battle ensued in which many were seriously wounded. Eleven of the Turners were indicted by the grand jury, but towards the end of January, 1855, after repeated postponements, the case was finally dropped.

The convention in Pittsburgh, September 11 and 12, 1854, is comparatively uninteresting. Although the Bund embraced 62 societies, the report was somewhat unfavorable, particularly as to finances, as these had been woefully mismanaged. It was resolved that not more than one society in any one city could belong to the Turnerbund, but that this Tumverein could establish branch societies if it so desired. The Turnzeitung became the subject of heated debates. It was decided to issue it once a week in larger form and in smaller type in order to make room for a discussion of political questions. Philadelphia was again selected as the executive center. It was decided to give the Turnfest in Cincinnati, and Buffalo was chosen for the convention.

The ensuing year was not fraught with many encouraging results. The heated arguments between the North and the South over the slavery question had a depressing influence on the social life of the Tumvereine. The Turnzeitung ignored its actual purpose, that of furthering and encouraging the practice of physical training, and manifested a lively interest in the burning political questions of the day. And this is only a reflection of the attitude of the societies themselves, for they lost interest in their gymnastic activities, and devoted themselves to politics.

Members of the Know-Nothing party showed a malicious enmity toward the German citziens, and their frequent attacks finally forced the Turners to resort to arms in self-defense. Especially, in Cincinnati and Columbus was this the case. At a city election in Cincinnati a veritable riot ensued which resulted in blood-shed. At a Turnfest in Columbus the city rowdies found occasion to vent their ire on the “white jackets,” as the Turners were jeeringly dubbed, and the riot which followed assumed the aspect of a battle. One of the attacking party was killed and nineteen Turners were arrested on the charge of assault with intent to kill. After a successful plea on the part of the lawyer of the defense they were finally acquitted.

By reason of the agitation of the American party against all foreigners and by their own use of the mother tongue, the German element at that time was separated almost entirely from social intercourse with the rest of the population. This increased the range of activities within the Turning societies and everything was done to make the social life there as interesting and as many-sided as possible.

A plan for the establishment of a Turner settlement originated
— 98 —

in Cincinnati in March of the year 1855. It was proposed that each settler should buy stock to the extent of fifteen dollars. The total amount thus realized was to be invested in a large plot of land. Upon this a city was to be laid out, and each investor was to be guaranteed a home or a farm. Only members of the Tumerbund were to be invited to share in this co-operatiye plan, and at the following convention in Buffalo it was to be decided whether the Tumerbund should have permanent charge of this undertaking. As a result the Turner settlement of New Ulm, Minnesota, was founded and its history is of great •importance in the annals of the Tumerbund.

The convention in Buffalo, 1855, marks a turning-point in the history of the North American Gymnastic Union. By taking a decided stand against slavery, the organization entered into the field of practical politics. The internal dissensions which came to the surface more and more, threatened the unity of the Bund and introduced a spirit of discord among its members.

The platform which was voted on and accepted by the representatives of forty-seven societies after a Jieated debate embodied the following principles:

‘ “The Turners will vote for no man who is a member of the Know-Nothing party, or who is* identified with any Nativistic corporation or party or does not declare himself openly as opposed to any organization of this nature.

“The Turners are opposed to slavery, and regard this institution as unworthy of a republic and not in accord with the principles of freedom.

“The Turners are opposed to all prohibition laws as undemocratic in theory and not feasible in practice.”

Towards the last of October, 1855, the newly-elected executive committee took office in Cincinnati. This body was confronted with many difficulties. The treasury was at low ebb. There were many unpaid subscriptions to the Turnzeitung and the Tumerbund was finally forced to overlook the resolution passed in 1852. A dispute which a-tose over the division of the Tumerbund into districts caused further difficulty. The year closed with the Turnfest in Cincinnati, where, on account of the finances, no prizes for the literary works submitted could be awarded.

The membership of the Bund was comparatively small in proportion to the total population of the states, but, even though it may prove difficult to produce tangible results, the fact remains that they played a prominent part in the politics of the day. The attitude and the spirited agitation of the Turners induced many of the early German immigrants who had become identified with the Democratic party to change their minds, and to fall in line with the Unionists. The Turners not only manifested the courage of their convictions in debate, in the press and in public discussions, but they braved personal danger for the anti-slavery cause whenever the opportunity presented itself. Such was the case in Boston and Cincinnati when Wendell Phillips, the celebrated abolitionist orator, was defended by the Turners against the furious attacks of hostile mobs: again, in New York, when the Turners responded to a call to police a Fremont demonstration.

Digitized by Google
— 99 —

The affairs of the Gymnastic Union were not as flourishing as they had been in the past. The practice of gymnastics was gradually neglected, and the interest of the Turners was absorbed by politics. The older Turners began to withdraw entirely from the gymnasiums, and the young men, who otherwise would have filled up the membership of the societies, were not available for this purpose, for the immigrants of this time had not the same interest in the ideals of the Turners.

The new executive committee, which met in Cincinnati, was confronted with a large indebtedness, and the organization was threatened with a calamitous future. A number of the southern societies resigned from the Bund because of the newly-adopted anti-slavery paragraph in the platform. The uncompromising attitude of the Tumzeitung toward these societies complicated the situation further, and the Bund tvas split into two parties. The convention, which was held in Washington, promised reconciliation, but the executive committee suddenly transferred the meeting to Pittsburgh.

The motive w'hich prompted this change became an object of suspicion, and as a result two conventions were held, one in Washington and the other in Pittsburgh. Thus the situation became still further complicated. Attempts to reconcile the two factions failed. At the convention in Pittsburgh it was resolved to establish a school for gymnastic teachers, trade schools for the members of the Bund, and gymnastic schools for boys and girls. Each of these factions issued a proclamation declaring that they alone deserved recognition as the official gymnastic union.

The year 1856 is of importance, in that it marks one of the most brutal attacks made by the Nativistic rowdies on the Turners. In May of that year, 160 members of the Cincinnati Turngemeinde, together with Turners from Newport and Covington, held a gymnastic festival on the Kentucky side of the Ohio river. The disturbances which had begun in the afternoon came to a climax upon the return march of the gymnasts from the festival grounds, and in the street fights which followed a great number of participants were seriously wounded. The Turners fought their way through the mob and sought refuge in the Newport gymnasium, where they were in a position of 'defense throughout the night. On the following day 107 Turners were arrested. The bond of each was fixed at $1,000, the entire sum, $107, 000, being furnished by two citizens of Newport. Later on, after investigation, all were dismissed save nine, who were kept in confinement, and finally, after a long trial, were given their freedom.

Two gymnastic festivals were held in September of the year 1857, the one in Milwaukee and the other in New York, and both were eminently successful. ,

Repeated attempts at reuniting the two factions of the Bund failed, so in September of the year 1857, the one branch held its convention in Detroit, and the other in Paterson, N. J. The disappointment of the various societies at the utter failure to bring about a reconciliation resulted in the gradual elimination of both factions, as the quarrel had now assumed a personal nature, and dealt with mere formalities rather than with vital principles. This elimination was hastened when the

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 100 —

executive committee of Cincinnati issued a proclamation urging the various societies to remove such members who did not declare themselves in entire accord with the platform of the Bund. A great many of the societies ignored this proclamation entirely; some repudiated it, and in many cities it resulted in the founding of independent organizations.

The report of the executive committee of the western faction, which held its convention in Indianapolis in September, 1857, showed ■that 20 societies had been disbanded; that 15 had resigned, and that-13 had joined the union. The treasury was at low ebb and the outlook for the future did not seem promising. Only 13 societies were represented at the convention of the eastern faction, and the report of the executive committee indicated a decrease in membership.

The executive committee of the year 1858, which had its headquarters in Dubuque, made active efforts to put the resolutions of previous conventions into practice. Public speakers were engaged to undertake lecture tours and to direct the interest of the societies into intellectual channels. The larger societies were urged to establish -schools for the development of class leaders.

The impetus toward effecting negotiations between the rival factions was given by the executive committee in Washington, and it was finally decided to have a joint session at a gymnastic festival to be held at Baltimore in August, 1859, when the conditions under which the reconciliation could be effected were to be discussed. Representatives of the opposing factions met in Baltimore, and an agreement was drawn up which was to serve as a basis for this consolidation. The final step to reunite the Turnerbund was made by the Williamsburg Tumverein at an extra session, which was convened in that city November 13, 1859.

The small attendance at the gymnastic festival at St. Louis, 1860, was undoubtedly due to the critical political situation in the country. The coming presidential election promised to be a turning-point in the history of the nation. In several proclamations the executive committee urged the members of the Turnerbund to support Lincoln.

The ominous reports which emanated from the South in the midst of the jubilation and the excitement which followed the election of Lincoln, boded ill for the peace of the nation. The Confederate States were mustering their troops in Virginia, and were menacing the national capital. To the northern friends of the rebellion, this appeared as an opportune moment for action. This feeling vented itself in the now famous Baltimore riot, which raged around the Turners of that city. For, after the fall of Fort Sumter, the state flag of Maryland had been hoisted upon all public buildings. The Union flag remained on only one building, the unpretentious hall of the Baltimore Tumverein. On April 19th a large mob gathered in front of the building, and under threat of destroying the hall, demanded that the Union flag should be replaced by the state flag. To this the Turners defiantly replied that they would rather blow up their own building than defame it by hoisting the rebel standard.

On April 20, the Turner Hall, though valiantly defended by the
— 101 —

Tumeis, was captured by the rebel mob and every movable bit of property and all the gymnastic apparatus was thrown upon the street. The neighboring office of the official organ of the gymnastic union and the printing establishment of the German paper Wecker met a similar fate, both buildings being razed to the ground. Many Turners were forced to flee the city in order to save their lives.

Before the Turners could realize what had happened, and before they could entrust the affairs of the Bund to new hands, war was declared and their activity was diverted to the field of battle.

(To be cdntinued.)

SWIMMING.

By HAKRY R. ALLEN, Philadelphia.

The season is now approaching when greater interest in swimming is aroused. Perhaps a brief word on the discussion of the past year in these columns would be appropriate at this time.

It is well to consider first, just why the art of swimming should be possessed by all. Psychologists tell us that it affects character by developing courage, self-reliance and preparedness. Physiologists speak of the very beneficial effect upon the nervous and circulatory systems when the body is immersed in cold water. Swimming must necessarily do this. Many teachers of physical education have noted the splendid effect of the so-called breast stroke upon the development of the large groups of muscles of the , back and legs as well as those of the thorax. These points alone, ought to convince the most sceptical that swimming is a necessary accomplishment, to say nothing of the swimmer’s ability," on occasion to save his own life or that of others.

Germany first incorporated swimming instruction in the curriculum of its schools, and, because such large numbers were required to learn, swimming instructors soon came to rejalize that mass-instructioii must be substituted for individual instruction. Various methods and devices were tried, until nearly all agreed that land movements taught in the school or gymnasium supplemented by the use of a device called the swimming buck, made the best preparation for instruction in the water. Quick results were obtained when this preliminary instruction had been thorough.

The discussion has brought out the fact that the breast stroke as an elementary stroke has stood the test of time. It may not bring such a quick result, but when taught and learned properly the result will be lasting. It lends itself readily to land drill and mass-instruction. The leg movement is the most important part of the stroke and when thoroughly mastered, it supplies the swimmer with the strongest propelling power possible, with, the smallest amount of muscular effort.

The advocates of the dog paddle stroke have made one or two points prominent in their arguments, namely; quick results and immediate confidence. Assuming that the results from this form of teaching are accurate, the question arises, will these results endure? Will

Digitized by
— 102 —

this method stand the test of time? So far at least most of these pupils remain dog paddle swimmers always and, as a rule, are never able to swim anything but a short distance.

The breast stroke has two advantages in its favor. It requires a very small amount of muscular effort and that makes it very valuable 1 as a resting stroke when swimming a long distance. When practiced without the use of the hands the swimmer will acquire the best stroke for saving life that has yet been devised. One of its disadvantages, however, is, that the swimmer loses his sense of direction and secondly the stroke does not lend itself readily to mass-instruction.

The side stroke is valuable as a long distance stroke, but should be taught only after the pupils have acquired the breast stroke.

The crawl stroke should be classed as a racing stroke only. The resulting strain on the swimmer makes this stroke suitable for short distances and not for a distance requiring endurance.

If . there are any facilities for swimming in your city and there seems to be a demand for swimming instruction, it would be a good plan to induce the land movements of the breast stroke in the gymnastic lessons of the last half of the fourth school grade, during the month of May and first part of June. If possible, interest the Board of Education in the work and get them to establish one swimming center either at a public bath or a bathing beach. Urge the children to enroll in the swimming classes and then teach them the breast stroke. If the work is properly managed the results will justify the expense and tjie effort involved.

The use of a public swimming pool suggests how. it may be kept clean and not become a spreader of disease. There should be running water in the pool while it is in use.

At least once a week the water should be drawn off and the sides and bottom of the basin scrubbed and cleaned. The frequent addition of a disinfectant to the pool water is the best means of ridding it of disease germs. Experiments, conducted by a number of organizations controlling public pools, have demonstrated that chloride of lime is the best agent found, so far. The size of the pool, the number of bathers and the quality of the water from the inflow pipe will determine how often this should be added. The best mode of adding it to the pool is to disolve one pound of chloride of lime in five gallons of water and sprinkle this over the surface of the pool with an ordinary sprinkling can.

If those in charge, insist on every bather taking a thorough shower-bath before entering the pool and they add the above mentioned disinfectant from time to time, public pools will not act as foci of infection.

The Board of Education of Des Moines, la. has ordered that all the windows and doors in all school rooms be opened at least four times each school day, and that the janitors open windows and doors after four o’clock to change completely the air in the buildings.—Journ. of the Outdoor Life.

Digitized by ViOOQle
— 103 —

CONVENTION OF THE A. P. E. A.

The 20th annual convention of the American- Physical Education Association was held at Newark, N. J., March 26th to 29th, inclusive. On the evening of March 26th it was generally regretted that Major General Dr. Leonard Wood, Chief of Staff, U. S. Army was prevented,, on account of the flood in the middle west, from coming to the con-^ vention to make the chief address ofjhe evening. Dr. R. Tait Me Kenzie of the University of Pennsylvania, President* of the Association, spoke at length on what constituted the ideal man. He told of the warrior’s type of ancient Greece and the careful study that must he given in the application of physical training to the particular needs of the individual. Besides this address the Mayor of Newark and the President of the Board of Education spoke encouragingly to the members of the convention.

Among the other most important addresses delivered during the convention was that of Mr. Calvin N. Kendall, commissioner of education of the State of New Jersey. He, spoke on "Physical Training an Essential in Modern Education.” The speaker said "It is principally in five directions that your work will aid in the education and the bringing the child to adolescence.

First of all Ton create an interest in the child for the school. If you arouse the interest of the child you get what the teacher needs most, the spirit of the pupil as well as its body. It is such work as you are interested in which make the school popular.

Secondly, our physical education gives the child that sort of training which will instill the desire to spend its leisure hour properly. And when these children have grown up they will still have some interests aside from their business in their hours of relaxtion.

Third, physical culture creates good conditions for teachers. The \ physical training teacher who rises to his opportunity will see that schools are sanitary, in short he will be a promoter of the good health of the children.

Another result, one which we have somewhat tardy in recognizing, is that the progress of the child depends largely upon its physical well-being and its power of concentration. It is the child whose blood is red whose lungs are good who will do the best wrork in school.

We finally have discovered the relation between muscular and mental training. In closing, let me quote Colonel Parker, whom some of you no doubt knew, who said: “Play is God’s method of teaching a child how to-work; and, furthermore let me cite Stanley Hall, wrho said: ‘A child without a playground is like a man without a job!”

In the absence of Mr. Sullivan Dr. Paul C. Phillips of Amherst College showed the moving pictures of the Olympic games at Stockholm, Sweden.

Among the other addresses made during the convention are those of Dr. Sargent, Dr. Seaver, Dr. Crampton, Dr. Arnold and Mr. Carl Schrader that were of particular interest. Dr. Sargent said “the real test of efficiency must combine endurance with strength. Very often men who are physically strong are lacking in endurance and are, there-

Digitized by

Google
— 104-

fore, not efficient.” Dr. Seaver especially pointed out that the teacher of physical education must also be a competent hygienist.

Dr. Crampton’s address on blood-pressure created much interest.

All in all the convention was a grand success largely due to the efforts of Mr. Randall D. Warden and his splendid corps of assistants. These were 3 exhibitions beside all the other features of the program. Much high class dancing was shown, which pleased the audience exceedingly. One of the finest numbers on the various programs, however, was the wand drill by the boys of the Newark Parental School directed by Mr. Morris Sachs.

Among those represented outside of the cities of the last were Atlanta, Ga., Pittsburgh, Pa., Cleveland, 0., Cincinnati, 0., and Buffalo, N. Y.

On account of the flood prevaling at the time, of the convention in the middle west, Mr. A. E. Kindervater, President of the Public School Physical Training Society was prevented from attending the convention and had to return to St. Louis, Mo. after getting as far as Washington* Ind.

Many of the delegates visited the schools of Newark and were training.	  _

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

Golden Jubilee of the New York District N. A. G. U., April 13th at the Hippodrome.

The New 'York District of the Nordamerikanischer Turne^bund, (North American Gymnastic Union,) a body numbering in its memberships thousands of the German-American citizens of New York and including practically all of the German gymnastic and athletic organizations of New York, began the celebration of the fiftieth year of its organization with an elaborate programme of gymnastics and music in the Hippodrome. Mayor Gaynor, who was one of many men well known in public life of the city present, said from the stage that last night’s celebration was a spectacle never surpassed on the Hippodrome stage, and added that he could wish nothing better for the men, women, and children of this country, of other than German ancestry, than that they follow the example of the German-Americans of the North American Gymnastic Union and establish similar organizations from one end of the Nation to the other.

The programme which was long and entertaining and inspiring in proportion, was participated in by 1,200 gymnasts ranging in age from 8 to 70 years. Among the older men were a number of civil war veterans who fought under Sigel and Schurz, and who,. despite their years are still able to exercise with the grace and agility of men a score or more years their juniors.

It would not only be a difficult matter, but one of possible injustice to give to any one number on the long programme the credit of having been better than any other. The celebration began with a rendition of the Coronation March by Otto Thomas’s orchestra, and was followed by the tableau “Homage to Father Jahn,” a spectacle in

Digitized by LaOOQle
— 105 —

which all of the 1,200 gymnasts took part. Then followed calisthenics and pole climbing by 200 little boys, and that in turn by a beautiful exhibition of dancing by as many little girls. *	-

Three hundred boys, ranging in age from 8 to 15 years, next gave a great exhibition of dumbbell exercises, keeping time to inspiring march music, after which 300 girls of about the same age created-enthusiasm with a graceful and artistic dance called “The Dance of the Song Birds.” This dance was rendered under changing lights of all colors, while from all parts of the stage came the music of the mocking bird’s song, played by musicians hidden in the wings.

The first part of the programme with the exception of the tableau, was one in which only the juvenile members of the union appeared. The second part-was that of the older members, and their performances were no less interesting. The men did the giant swing, a dozen swinging around the horizontal bars at the same time. They gave an exhibition of wand exercises, followed that with Indian club work, and ended their part of the show with a series of pyramid formations that few professionals could excell.' As for the young women, they did Indian club work that was on a par with that of the men, while the “Aesthetic Dance,” in which more than 300 of them appeared in 6ailor waists and knickerbockers, came as near as any of the acts to being the hit of the evening.

Mayor Gaynor made his speech immediately after the applause that followed “The Dance of the Song Birds” ceased. He was escorted to the stage by Herman Bidder and Heinrich Abeles, the latter the head of the Hew York District of the North American Gymnastic Union.

“After seeing what I have seen to-night,” said Mayor Gaynor, “I must say that I am prouder than ever before of being the father of the city. I can imagine how proud are the fathers and mothers of the boys and girls who have taken part in this wonderful exhibition, and, proud as they must be, they are no prouder than I am of being the father of all you put together.

“This vast hall has seen many great spectacles, but I venture to say that this one to-night is the greatest ever witnessed on the stage. When I came here I had no idea I was going to see what I have seen. I was not prepared to see the magnificent tableau that began the celebration, the wonderful work of the boys and the splendid charm of the little girls. I never saw anything mo^e wonderful in my life.

“The object of this organization is, as I understand it, to give that peculiar exercise to boys and girls that will give them healthy bodies, and in the end make of them good citizens, good men and good women. Its object is both moral and physical. I hope that the lesson you teach i§ one that will be copied by all of our people from one end of our land to the other.”-—New York Times.

On sending 35 cents {stamps) we will mail a copy of BALLIN’S “PHYSICAL TRAINING IN THE SCHOOLROOM”; catalog price. $1.00. This stock, slightly damaged, is limited.

Address “Mind and Body.’1 Herold Bldjj., Milwaukee, Wis.
— 106 —

Normal Collage of the N. A. 6. U., Indianapolis, Ind.

The greatest flood that ever visited this section of the country cut Indianapolis off from all outside communication for three days. College was closed on the 26th of March, there being no city water as the power plant was flooded. Street car traffic was tied up for nearly a week. As spring vacation started March 29th, school was not resumed until April 7th. Many of the students were not able to reach their homes on account of crippled train service, and those that did experienced considerable difficulty in reaching their destinations. Those living in Cincinnati were on the road twelve hours, whereas it ordinarily takes about three hours for the trip.

The students remaining in the city during vacation, rendered valuable service to the Belief Committee for the flood sufferers, giving several days of their time to this work.

Beginning with the second term, the members of the senior class were given opportunity of instructing the afternoon classes of the So-zialer Turnverein.

The Annual of the 1913 class has gone to press and will be ready for distribution the latter part of May. It promises in every way to be a credit to the class and to the College. The senior class desire to thank the Alumni for their prompt response in subscribing for this publication.

With interest the students are watching the growth of the library of the Normal College, to which during the last year 275 volumes have been added. Quite a number of books are donated by friends and patrons of the College. One of the larger donations during the year was that of the entire private library of the late Dean of the department of anatomy, physiology, and hygiene, Dr. Kobert Fischer. Other books presented were: " Heinrich Metzner, A Brief History of the North American Gymnastic Union; Dr. Bud. Gasch, Jahrbuch der Turnkunst for 1907, 1910, 1911, 1912, and 1913; all donated by the Executive Committee of the North American Gymnastic Union. Er-gaenzungsband zu Meyers Konservationslexikon, donated by Jacob Metzger. Handbuch der deutschen Turnerschaft, donated by the author, Prof. Dr. Hugo Buehl. Die Deutschen im Amerikanischen Biirgerkriege, donated by the author, Wilhelm Kaufmann. Dr. Wilms, Friedrich Ludwig Jahn, by Robert E. Kaestner. Friedrich Miinchs Gesammelte Schriften, by Hugo Miinch. The Neurone T'nths of the Cerebro-Spinal Nervous System, donated by the author, Dr. Jewett V. Beed. Ernst Schur, Der Modeme Tanz, and Beports on Ventilation by Dr. M. H. Gordon and Wm. N. Shaw, donated by W. A. Stecher. Georg Hirth, Das gesamte Turnwesen; Dr. Franz Passow, Tumziel (1818); L. Bornemann, Lehrbuch der Gymnastik (1814); A. Raven-stein, Die Turnkunst, and Turnbiichlein; J. L. D’Alfonce, Instructions in Gymnastics (New York, 1851); Dr. Karl Wassmaimsdorff’s book on J. C. F. GutsMu'ths; F. L. Jahn, Schwanentfede; .Dr. W. F. Klumpp, Das Turnen; F. Siegmund, Das Jahndenkmal; Dr. M. Roth, Movements according to Ling's System; Dr. E. M. Hartwell, Physical Training in American Colleges; all donated by Heinrich Metzner. A.
—107 —

Lang, Turntafeln, by J. Zink. Ernst Klotz, Der Sinn in der Gym-nastik und der Unsinn im Sport; Prof: Dr. Karl Brunner, Friedrich Ludwig Jahn; both by Albrecht Kipp.

ALEX A: HARWICK, Recorder.

The Summer Session of the Nonnal College of the North American Gymnastic Union will again be held at Indianapolis, Ind., this year, beginning Thursday, July 10th, and closing Wednesday, August

6th. The subjects offered, are:	   "	^

Theory and Practice, of German Educational Gymnastics; Classic and Esthetic Dancing; Folk Dancing; Fencing; Playgrounds, Plays and Games; Song Games; Anatomy; Human Physiology; Physiology and Hygiene of Sex; Physiology of Exercise; First Aid to the Injured; English Literature; Principles of Education.

The students will be divided into first and second year classes. Of the above subjects, Anatomy will be given to first year students only, and Physiology of Exercise to Second year students only. The two classes will receive separate instruction in Practice of Educational Gymnastics, Classic and Esthetic Dancing, and Fencing.

The following are members of the faculty:

Bmil Rath, G. G.t Dean of the Department of the Theory and Practice of Physical Education of the Normal College, Director of Bummer Session and Instructor in Educational Gymnastics and Dancing.

Wm. A. Stecber, B- S. G., Director of Physical Education, Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa., Member of the Board of Recreation of Philadelphia., Lecturer on Playgroumd Administration and Equipment, Instructor in Plays and Games.

John B. Morris, M. D., Professor of Anatomy, Normal College, and School of Medicine of the Indiana University, Lecturer on Descriptive Anatomy.

Jewett V. Reed, M. D., Professor of Physiology, Normal College, and School of Medicine of the Indiana University, Lecturer on Human Physiology.

Arthur B. Gaedel, M* “D., Becturer on Physiology of Exercise.

Carl B. Sputb, M. D.. Lecturer on First Aid to the Injured.

Edgar F. Kiser. M. D., Lecturer on Physiology and Hygiene of Sex for Men

Amelia-Keller, M. D., Lecturer on Physiology and Hygiene, of Sex for, Women

E. R.Rayv A* M., Supervising Principal,Indianapolis Public Schools, Professor of Psychology and Education of the Normal College, Lecturer on Principles of Education.

Wm. N. Otto, A. M., Professor of English, Sbortridge High School* Indianapolis., Lecturer on English Literature.

Louis De Vries, A. M;, Professor of German, Manual Training High School, Indianapolis., Lecturer on German Literature.

Dancing! - Sutninei* School.

M r. 0. <3k MemLennan*

(Of London and Edinburgh,)

Apnopnces his return to .America for the summer,—when he. will offer a

COMPLETE COURSE OF TRAINING FOR DANCING TEACHERS

and others, — on the methods of the greatest European Artists* BALLET, AESTHETIC, NATIONAL & FOLK DANCING,also FENCING Particulars from	MR*	PANZER,

Gymnasium, Carnegie Hail, New York City.

Digitized by tjOOQle
V If	“	-	■ **mm Publmbcd

mSP ftND BODY. FREIDENKBR PUBLISHING CO.

Prim, «1.M htImi. Foniga $1.M.	UUwkMkm,	-WlaexHuOxu

mr Addros* all buiisieM letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STBCHER, 73 W. Johnson St., Gennantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Oftce as Second Class Matter.

Notes and Comments,

—AN ENCOURAGING- SIGN of the changed attitude of college-men towards athletics is found in the article on Summer Baseball by M. D. L. Reeves printed elsewhere, and also in the following article by Malcolui K. Gordon printed in the Yale Alumni News.

“College athletics, according to the generally accepted term, refer to those gigantic spectacular attractions where a few athletes perform before the eyes of thousands of good American citizens who would have us beliieve that our country is athletic because we are willing to build:a great stadium and pay high prices for seats therein. Certainly our college athletics are carried too far when, as has been the case for jh^ny years, only a Small fraction of the student body ‘has the chance to play naturally in games that require grounds and buildings. If we allow that athletics are to be encouraged for the physical benefit of the college in general then these great contests between colleges accomplish but little, because the few men who represent the college are necessarily the most physically perfect ahd need this development

least of all men. (.............................................. *

-“Again, college athletics have gone too far* .when we consider the notoriety given to athletes in the daily press. The commercialism which has been built up within and without our colleges, the money made by:the college athletic associations, directly and indirectly from the muscular prowess of a few athletes, together with* the agreements with the venders of athletic goods whereby both parties again make profits, these and similar conditions where commercialism has overshadowed, not only' sportsmanship,' Jrat even the amateur standard of your college athletes, are the pernicious elements./that have pit our college aithletics in a,-bad, light.. .When a college -reduces athletics to a business proposition and then makes enormous sums thereby, certainly to any true sportsman and amateur athletics have gone to excess in that particular.' :	• '

'* r "Athletics ihd gport in ohrcollfegbs are, I am s6hy to say, Vastly different terms. Athletics ure work: sport is play, and sport ceases to be play when it becomes a business. College athletics are a business, a great paying business,! too, supported by the masses' who get little or no actual physical benefit from them. All energies ate directed in lines that will produce one wining crew or team, which monopolizes the limited facilities for -sport.” •

Digitized by LjOOQle
— It*

THE SUMMER BASEBALL EVIL.

By D. L. HEroVEfl,

Sporting Editor “Public Ledger,” Philadelphia.

The Thorpe case—probably without parallel in interest in this country by reason of the fame and athletic ability of the man and the fact that a general demand has b$en made for a different basis of distinction between an amateur and professional—will not down. In daily and weekly papers, periodical and magazine, columns have been devoted to the man and the subject his case brought to public attention. “Summer baseball” was the means which made Thorpe a professional in the eyes of the Amateur Athletic Union of America; it is the same “summer baseball” that has worried college authorities for years, and it is “summer baseball” that is now engaging the attention of the National Collegiate Association, of which Dr. Le Baron Briggs, of Harvard, is president. To solve the problem of students playing baseball for money is the most Important question before that body today, and in an attempt to find some solution, Doctor Briggs has sent out a circular note to the 108 universities and colleges composing the organization, asking for some'action on the subject. The activity of the association at this particular time has been prompted by the Thorpe case. A committee of three college professors has been appointed to investigate the problem, to report their recommendations at the next meeting, at which it is expected some radical action will be taken to prevent “summer baseball.” Doctor Briggs’ circular note in part follows:	“It	would	appear that the next important duty of

' the association is to exert its influence in the direction of improving the game of baseball as played by college men. In the judgment of many> college baseball is attended by certain sharp practices and deviations from true sportsmanship which have been borrowed, along with the finer technical points of the game, from professional players.”

There are two views to be taken of this very vexatious question, the ultra ethical and the extremely practical. In this country all questions involving amateurism in athletics are hardly of two generations’ standing. The line between an amateur and professional, so finely and often subtly drawn, is made on different theories in a country where society is democratic and in those where it is aristocratic. It must not only be clear, but also it must conform to the opinions of many persons who have no inherited prejudices in favor of amateur players as opposed to the professional. So far as it carries any implication of moral or social superiority or inferiority, if is abhorrent to a democrat cy. just as the idea that a student working his way through college is menial has disappeared in'America, so also has the idea that a man-who supports his family by baseball playing is to be shunned and to be looked down upon. The one and only distinction that can be maintained between the amateur and professional is the singleness of aim of the one who plays for the pure sport of the game and the ulterior, purpose of gain of the other:•""The professional’s standing among his friends and the community, and the respect for him among all classes,
depend upon other things than his profession. In a democracy like ours the gentleman is distinguished by his aims and purposes and not in pretense to beings what he is not. It is this fundamental fact, this state of mind, that college men must insist on and maintain if they are to keep amateur sport clean.

The fact is constantly being brought to the attention of college men and the general public that athletics and athletes are byproducts of an educational institution. Just as soon as any considerable number of graduates of a college come to look upon the byproducts as the principal cause of its existence or distinction, just that soon does such a college lose caste in the educational world and is in danger of losing its reputation as an exponent of sane and proper education. Every educational institution, from the prep school to the largest university, has a certain number of such graduates, but we conceive this number diminishes as they approach the time when they will have boys in college themselves. It is true that athletics attracts many students who appreciate and make good use of their college opportunities, and there is hardly a varsity team in the country which does not furnish ample proof of this fact. But the boy who enters college solely for its athletics and gives his time grudgingly to his studies that he may attain just the requisite academic standing is an undesirable anomaly. Yet our colleges are being injured by the recruiting of boys who are matriculated simply because they are athletes, and who otherwise would not enter college at all. The boy may be a sound and thoroughly clean individual, with ability and disposition to become a useful and perhaps leading citizen, but if proselyting brings him to a college where he can earn a sweater on which he is entitled to wear a precious athletic insignia, we believe this type of under-graduate an evil to the college which he enters.

We cheerfully concede that the practical way of solving the baseball problem among the colleges is vastly easier than holding to the well-nigh impossible ethical standard. But the practical way is not without its sound argument and has many advocates even among college men of high and authoritative standing. Delving deep in an analysis of ; the subject it seems an anomaly that Thorpe should have been declared a professional in all sports because he received money for playing “summer baseball,” while Percy Haughton, perhaps the highest salaried football coach in America, is considered a simon pure amateur racquet player, Bringing the question nearer home, we submit that no one questions the amateur standing of George H. Brooke* recently selected football coach of the University of Pennsylvania, a-mong racquet players. Mr. Brooke is one of the best amateur racquet players in America, yet he is a professional in- a, football: sense, Yet if the A. A. U. exercised any control over the game of amateur racquets in this* country it would declare Messrs. Brooke and Haughton professionals in* all forms of sport. Therefore* the question of distinction between amateur and professional in all sports over which the A. A. U; excises control is one'of arbitrary dictum , by that: body.

Digitized by Google
— Ill —

At present the National Collegiate Association and the Amateur Athletic Union oppose “summer baseball/5 although there are many colleges members of the first-named organization which do not enforce the rule against it. It might be well for athletics in general if the A. A. U. would end the controversy now, rather than wait for a few years to act on the question, as we believe that public sentiment will eventually force that organization to revise its code in order to permit a student to play “summer baseball55 and still retain his amateur standing in other sports. It should recognize baseball as a trade or business, not as a sport. Professional baseball is no longer a sport in the strict sense of the term. It is a business with promoters, who have thousands of dollars invested in it, and a trade with thousands of players who engage in it. The players are skilled workmen. A man may be a skilled carpenter, accountant or lawyer, and still- be considered an amateur in track and field sports. Melville Sheppard, Matthew McGrath, Martin Sheridan and many others are skilled in their particular lines of vocation, yet the A. A. U. recognizes them as simon pure athletes. Why not the baseball player? It certainly seems an injustice to a young man to declare him a professional and bar him from ajnateur track and field competition because he possesses sufficient skill on the diamond to earn a little money. Students certainly seem justified in paying for their college education by receiving money for playing baseball when, perhaps, they would be deprived of such opportunities if they were unable to obtain the necessary means by such skill, and on the other hand it appears manifestly unfair to regard them as professionals for receiving money for such a commendable purpose. A ruling by the colleges and the A. A. U. to permit “summer baseball55 would do much to purify amateur athletics. It would eliminate by one stroke all double dealing, cheating, lying, hypocrisy and other acts unbecoming to the amateur.

The course that the National Collegiate Association takes on the subject of “summer baseball55 will be watched with unusual interest not only by colleges not members of that body, the Amateur Athletic Union, but also the general public. The object of the committee will be to have_ the organization either take drastic measures to prevent students from playing for money or permit them to do so. No matter which policy is adopted, there is sure to be much opposition. Many of the colleges connected with the association permit students to play for money during the summer. At a conference of colleges in Western Pennsylvania it was voted that “no record be required from candidates for their athletic history from June 15 to Septeihbeir 15,75 This gives the students the right to play for money during the summer on teams which come under organized baseball. It allows them to play with hotel teams at summer resorts or with so-called semi-professional teams. In the South many colleges permit their students to play for money, and the representatives of these institutions say that the plan is one of common sense, and has produced no bad results among the students. Professor W. C. Riddick, of the North Carolina College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts, has championed
— 112 —

the cause of the student who wants to play for money, and he is in favor of the College Athletic Association giving its official approval of the practice. The sentiment among the colleges of the South and West is,strongly in favor of permitting students to play for money, while among the larger colleges of the East, with few exceptions, there is strong opposition to this professionalism. The colleges in the Missouri conference a few years ago took up this much-discussed question, and, after trying to stamp out the practice, gave it up and came to the conclusion that it was impossible to try to stop students from playing for money.

A year ago the Collegiate Association went on record as being opposed to the practice, but no really active campaign has ever been conducted by the body against the so-called playing for money. With Dean Briggs, of Harvard, exhibiting a live interest in the matter, the question will probably be brought to an issue during the coming year, and, if the new leader’s influence counts for much, the Collegiate Athletic Association will take decidedly radical measures to try to prevent what it considers to be the most dangerous feature of college sports. Dean Briggs says that the association, of the college student with the professional players tends to have a demoralizing effect and also brings objectional professional tactics into the college game. Many believe that the influence of the association is so far-reaching that it will eventually succeed in stamping out the professional feature of college baseball, while others say that colleges will always allow their policies to fit local conditions, and that a sweeping rule agaffist the practice will be ineffective.

The Demand for Physical Directors is Greater Today Than Ever

THE PHYSICAL CULTURE TRAINING SCHOOL, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, will have a SPFCIAL SUMMER SCHOOL BEGINNING JULY 1st.

$iatn a pvaftmmien that is not over-crowded.

avB	of	the	smaller	cities	that	would gladly pay a grade

teacher an additional salary for supervising the physical work.

IPPhtt comttine this with your regular teaching work, and earn more money ? Classes will be conducted in all branches in which we will accept beginners, also those who have had some experience. We will also offer additional material for broadening the scope of work for teachers seeking advanced instruction.

Normal Course requires for admission 15 units from an accredited High School or Academy. We accept students in the general course without fifteen units.

The fielS is open to both men and women.

The Boards of Education all over the country are in want of Physical Directors. — We own our quarter-of-a-million dollar building.

Attend a recognized school. Address

Secretary, Box 42, 42nd Street and Grand Blvd. Chicago, Illinois. SUMMER SCHOOL (June 27 to Aug. I) IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Mr*. ROBERT L. PARSONS, Dir.

Normal course in Physical Training for Physical Directors and Playground Workers.

Classes will be conducted in Folk Dancing, Aesthetic Dancing, Public School Gymnastics, and Playground Courses. These courses are especially pointed for beginners who wish fundamental instruction. Secondly, for those with some experience in teaching who desire additional instruction. Third, teachers can acquire additional material for broadening the scope of their work in the way of drills, etc. Fourth, teachers seeking advanced instructions in theory aind practice who cannot give the time during'the regular school year. Credit for the summer work will be given on the regular course of the school to those seeking a diploma. For particulars address CHICAGO SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION & EXPRESSION, Box P, 430 S. Wabash Ave., Chicago, 111.

Digitized by Google
—113 —

Physiology and Hygiene.

By D. M. FERD. KROGtf, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

—The Role of Prevention.—In the future of medicine, the mere Temoval of disease must play more and more a subordinate part. Most disease can be prevented. Above all therapeutics stands sanitation. It is possible to remove causes of disease long before any disease begins. It is possible to heal our patients long before they are sick. Our knowledge in many fields is now adequate for this result. No one can be attacked by an infectious disease unless we have somehow or other permitted the infection.—David Starr Jordan, Science.

—Slowness of Thought.—In the course of a paper recently read the author said that conscious judgment was a very slow process. Every single mental process took at least one-tenth of a second and comparative processes must take so many tenths of a second. The quickness of thought was measured in multiples of that unit, not in sub-multiples. A cyclist called upon to steer between two vehicles without skidding on a greasy roadway had no time to do that sort of thing. In such matters it was the unconscious parts of our mind which acted. In all cases of skill, deliberate judgment, as a rule was out of place. There was no time for a cyclist to put the pros and cons before himself, he would be run over while doing so. There was no time for the tennis-player to perform an act of deliberate conceptual judgment when the ball was coming towards him, but at the same time there w$s a process of perpetual judgment based upon the practical judgment of the past.—“Health,” London.

—Dr. H. D. Chapin in the New York Medical Journal of Febr. 8th, 1913 says that fats and carbohydrates serve two distinct purposes in nutrition which are equally important: They furnish energy which, when expended, liberates heat, and they also supply water to the cells in such a manner that it dilutes the cell contents and reduces their osmotic pressure so as to produce an automatic flow of nutriment to them from the more concentrated blood as soon as it is needed. Fats are more effective' producers' of metabolic water than carbohydrates. Metabolic water produced from fats weighs more than the original fat and results from a combination of the hydrogen of the fat with oxygen from the blood. Metabolic water derived from carbohydrates is a residual product obtained by splitting the carbohydrate, and weighs about two-thirds as much as the original carbohydrate. In milk, the natural food of rapidly growing young animals, which require much metabolic water to promote cell nutrition, fat supplies the greater part of the metabolic water. In hen’s eggs it supplies practically all of it. The amount of heat or the number of calories excreted is a measure of the food that is being burned, but does not show how much is needed for growth. The energy or caloric need of the body does not depend upon its size or weight, but upon its activity. The number of calories a food will yield is not an indication of its nutritive value. The caloric requirements of the body \o maintain it intact depend upon the amount

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 114 —

of energy expended. The number of calories the food, which is to supply these requirements should yield, depends on its caloric value after deducting the number of calories needed for its digestion and assimilation. The amount of energy needed for digesting a food depends largely on its physical condition.—Journ. Am. Med. Assoc.

—Training.—It is a well established fact that pugilists, pedestrians and others who perform in public feats requiring great strength and endurance undergo beforehand severe training to develop their powers to the utmost. The rules laid down by their trainers are very strict and are rigidly enforced. The following are a few in regard to diet:— Little salt. No coarse vegetables. No pork or veal. Two meals a day, breakfast at eight and dinner at two. If supper is allowed at all it must be a very light	and simple	one, several hours	before bedtime,	and

is not recommended.	It is reckoned much against	a man’s wind to g;o

to bed with a full stomach. No fat meat is ever given, and no butter or cheese, which are	considered	indigestible. Pies	and pastry are	not

allowed. Meat must	always be	taken fresh, and	not seasoned.	Salt

meats are not allowed. Puddings and hard dumplings are considered unfit to be eaten. The trainers say, aPeople may as well take earthen-ware into their stomachs.”—“Health,” London.

—Public Health Lectures.—A series of lectures is being given by dhe Public Health Education Committee of the Medical Society of the County of New York with the co-operation of the New York Academy * of Medicine and American Medical Association, having for its design an educational campaign which is being carried forward with the. hope of lessening suffering and saving life. The lectures began January 8th and are given on alternate Wednesday evenings and Thursday afternoons. The general subject of the course is the'prevention of disease and the special subjects of lectures are, the growing child; household sanitation; diseases of exposure; deafness; surgical emergencies; care of convalescent and chronic invalids; industrial hygiene; the mental growth of the child; relation of the food to development; common skin conditions; advances in modern medicine and common contagious diseases. These lectures are open to the public and no cards of admission are required.

—Influence of School Life on Fitness for Military Service.—At the joint session of the German Association for Public Hygiene and the Berlin Society for School H}^giene, the question was discussed as to the influence of the upper school grades on military efficiency. As a basis for their argument, surgeon-major Professor Schwiening and Dr. Nicholai referred to an investigation of records of 52,650 volunteers for one year in the period of 1904-06. Among these recruits, half of whom received their education in high schools and colleges, there were 65 per cent, eligible against 35 per cent, unfit. The most unfavorable conditions were found among the students from the gymnasiums and realgymnasiums, and these are followed by the realschulen, seminars " and agricultural colleges. It is evident that fitness for military service

Digitized by
— 115 —

decreases as the years spent in school increase; on the other hand, the unfavorable influence of the school grows less evident the longer the interval between leaving the school and entering the army.

So far as the special cause for the unfitness is concerned, 33 per cent, of the unfit suffered from general physical debility. Diseases of the heart, lungs and nerves were more frequent among those unfit for military sendee than among those who are fit, while among the latter severe diseases of bones and joints, hernia and flat-foot are more prevalent. Here again the unfavorable conditions increase with the number of the years spent in school. However, it is to be considered that students attending gymnasiums come mostly from families which have for many years been identified with sedentary pursuits.

While the schools are not altogether to blame for these unfavorable conditions, improvements are necessary in order to secure a better physical development. In addition to gymnastic work, games and other physical exercises in the Open air should be considered, but these should not degenerate into competitive athletics with its overtraining and its attempts to beat the record. If pupils begin to practice such games already in the school, they will continue them after leaving school and thus the injurious influences of professional training will be avoided.

—From Berlin Letter to the Joura. A. M. A., Dec. 27, M2.

—Radical Tuberculosis Measure in x^tlapta.—One of the most radical ordinances on tuberculosis passed by any city in the United States has recently been adopted by the city of Atlanta, Ga. While the ordinance is so worded that it applies to any person afflicted with, tuberculosis, it is primarily designed to provide for compulsory removal, segregation, and detention of colored servants and others, who by their habits may endanger the lives of others. The ordinance provides for a certificate of examination to be given to persons who are found to be free from tuberculosis, and f6r a fine and imprisonment penalty for fraudulent use of such certificates. The full text of the resolution of the Board of Health leading to the adoption of the ordinance and the ordinance itself are given herewith:

“An Ordinance to Protect the People of Atlanta from the Dangers of Infection with Tuberculosis when this Disease Exists in Washerwomen, Cooks, Servants, or other Employees.

“Whereas, -there exists in the City of Atlanta numerous persons affected with tuberculosis who are not observing proper precautions to prevent the spread of the disease to other persons, and such individuals are a menace to the public health, therefore, the Board of Health hereby declares tuberculosis to be a contagious and infectuous disease, and the /Mayor and General Council are respectfully requested to pass the following ordinance.

“Be it ordained by the Mayor and General Council of the City, of Atlanta that persons infected with tuberculosis must comply with the rules laid down by the Board of Health to prevent the spread of the disease to other people.

“The Board of Health of the City of xitlanta shall have full power and authority to send to the hospital, or quarantine, established or

Digitized by e^ooQle
— 116 —

designated for the purpose, any person or persons in the City of Atlanta who may be infected with tuberculosis, when in the judgment of the said Board of Health, or such agents in charge of tuberculosis work, such. isolation is necessary for the protection of the public.

“Said Board of Health shall also have authority to subject all persons who may be suspected of spreading the contagium of infection of tuberculosis, to an examination by the Superintendent of the City Tuberculosis Hospital (known as Battle Hill Sanatorium), or his assistants, or physicians designated for such duty by the Board of Health.

“After proper examination, if such person or persons shall be found to be free from any evidence of infection with tuberculosis, they sliall be supplied with a certificate to this effect signed by the City Physician making such examination.

“Any person found using a certificate fraudulently or with intent to deceive, shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $100.00 on conviction in the Recorder’s Court, or be imprisoned not exceeding 30 days, or both in the discretion of the Court.”—Joum. of the Outdoor Life.

—Re-education of the Muscles by Dr. G. Boeri is the title of an article published in the Reforma Medica, Naples, Dec. 7, 1912. Boeri thinks that this name for Frenkel’s method of training tabetics to walk anew is by no means comprehensive enough as the motor functioning is such a complex mechanism of physical and psychic factors, stimulations and inhibitions. He insists that this system of re-education should not be confined to treatment of tabes alone but should be regarded as a general principle in treatment of various affections, as it is based on physiology and on the intimate relations between the movements of the muscles and the psychic functioning. The principle should not he restricted to the humble task of re-educating the periheral tools of locomotion but should be applied to the highest spheres of psychic activity in the brain cortex; here it blends with psychotherapy, which may be called the re-education of the ideas. Considering that some muscular contraction corresponds to every idea, that the mental image of the movement precedes the movement and that the translation of the mental image into the effective movement is prevented by inhibiting forces, we can readily see the importance of paying special attention to these inhibiting forces in the process of re-education. The principle of re-education is being applied now not only to the gait but to the speech, hearing and thought, and even to the vegetative processes, alimentation, digestion, micturition, respiration ^and the heart action, to the extent that the latter processes can be influenced by the action of the muscles above them which are under /the control of the will, the abdominal muscles acting on the bladder, the heart influenced by respiration, massage, etc. Lagrance has called attention particularly to the possibility of re-educating the heart. Boeri urges bringing under the influence of the will power in this way numerous vital processes which are generally left entirely to themselves from birth to death, such as the functioning of the liv&r, the heart, the respiration, which we all now leave in their primitive untrained, natural state throughout life.
— 117 —

He regards it as within our power to enhance the functional dignity of the vegetative processes and gradually improve these functions and transmit them on a higher plane to posterity. The tendency of physiologic education is to train our movements until they become automatic and thus we spare will power and force in them, while re-education, on the other hand, seeks to revive the volitional and conscious mechanism of the movements.—Journ. A. M. A., 1-18-’13.

Athletics and Sports.

J. LEONARD MASON, City Hall, Newark, N. J.

A resolution urging the people of the State to demand abolition of all interscholastic athletics was adopted April 18th, as a compromise measure after an all-day session of the Colorado High School and College Conference, with more than 200 educators present.

The sentiment of the entire conference was against baseball, football, basketball and all other athletic games. The committee in whose hands plans for elimination of high school athletics had been placed became so divided before the close of the session that the compromise measure was substituted in place of one directly abolishing athletics.

Harry J. Hebner is national A. A. U. champion 100-yard* swimmer and also 150-yard back-stroke champion. Hebner took both titles April 4th in the Illinois Athletic Club tank.

The 100 yards was won in 55 2-5 seconds, Perry McGillivray was second and A. C. Raitbel third. All were of the I. A. C. Hebner won the 150 yards back-stroke in 2 minutes 16 4-5 seconds. M. L. Mott was second and Robert E. Thompson third.

Charles Borstrum, of the University of Southern California Pre-vparatory School, broke the world’s interscholastic record for the pole vault April 4th, clearing the bar at 12 feet 6 1-16 inches. He was a competitor in the Pacific Coast interscholastic track meet.

The former mark was 12 feet 1 inch, made originally by Roy Mercer, of Mercersburg Academy, Maryland, at the Princeton interscholastic meet in 1909, and tied in 1911 by Eugene Schobinger, of Harvard School; Chicago.

, The greatest regatta ever held on the Great Lakes is the aim of the Interlake Yachting Association for the 1913 regatta, which will be held at Put-in-Bay, O., from July 20th io August 31st, in conjunction with the Perry Centennial celebration.

A $20,000 prize list has been announced for the events, in which both fresh and salt water yachts and speed boats will participate. Sail yacht week opens the carnival, followed by a week devoted to powerboat contests for the United States championships.

Aviation week is devoted to hydro-aeroplanes, aeroplanes and flying boat competition. In the closing week the United States Naval Militia Regatta Association oarsmen will compete with Great Lakes

Digitized by Google
— 118 —

naval militiamen and military academy crews. Other water sports are scheduled for the closing week.

Paul Krimmelf New York Turnverein, was the winner- of the all-around gymnastic championship of the Metropolitan District, April 3rd in the New York Turnverein, with a total of 336 points, as the result of his showing in four events—parallel bars, side and long horse, and v horizontal bar. Joseph Laporte, Swiss Turnverein of Hudson County, finished second, and Frank Loetterie, New York. Turnverein, third, with 266 and 263, respectively.

There was a good entry of Swiss performers, but it was agreed that there was too much sameness to their work to earn recognition over that of the New York Turners, whose combinations were varied.

The international aspect in sports, spreading with each successive year, is unusually dominant in the tentative arrangements of the big sporting events for the Summer. The program, now nearly completed, calls for international contests in which Americans will participate in about a dozen branches of sport.

The list ranges from chess to yachting. As friendly invaders of the American sporting arena Chinese baseball players are coming from the orient, cricket players and tennis experts from far-off Australia, golf champions and polo challengers from England, yachtsmen from Germany, athletes from Cambridge and Oxford universities, and auto-mobilists and aviators from France, as well as the usual influx of foreign competitors in minor lines of sport.

The tide of Americans to other shores is lesser than the incoming one, but it includes as its unusual features a proposed tour of baseball players and visits of American golfers to both England and France.

Dates for most of the summer’s sporting fixtures, both at home and abroad, have now been set, and from a summary of those available here, it is evident thp sport-loving public is to have an unusual variety of events to follow.

In yachting the Germans renew the “sonder” or special class races with the Americans, paying a visit of nearly three weeks to these shores in August. The races will be held as usual off Marbelhead, Mass., the trials being set for August 16th to 23rd and the finals beginning September 1st. American yachtsmen are also being urgently invited to enter the international class races at Havre, France, in July.

The golfing season will see the first team match between American and French golfers near Paris in the latter part of June, following the British open tournament in which a number of Americans will also participate at Moylake, June 19 to 24. The national championships have been arranged for Brookline, Mass, (open), and for Garden City, Long Island (amateur), the latter during the week of September 1st, and the former from September 18th to 20th. The women's national tournev will he held at Wilmington, Del., October i5tli to 18th,-

News that the Australian candidates for Davis cup honors in ten-

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 119 —

nis will come here to meet the Americans in trials, May 28th to 30th, assures an interesting international contest in this sport. The national championships in tennis will probably be held at Newport, R. I., beginning August 18 th.

After two years’ interval the Hurlingham Club, of England, is to send another polo team here in quest of the international cup, the visitors probably being here for more than a month. The tournament will be held at Meadowbrook, Long Island, June 14th to 18. The national championships will be decided at Narragansett Pier in August.

Several foreign automobile racers are already tentatively entered for the international 500-mile race on the Indianapolis Speedway on Decoration Day. Two other big automobile events for the year will be held at Savannah, the Vanderbilt cup race on November 24th, and the grand prize on November 27th.

An event much anticipated among college athletes will be the visit of the Oxford-Cambridge athletic team to America, probably in the latter part of June for a meeting with the Harvard-Yale team. The usual intercollegiate championships have been set for May 30—31 at Boston, and the Pennsylvania relay carnival for Philadelphia, April 26th, with an unusually large number of dual track and field meets among the college teams.

Rowing has no international aspect, unless it may be the appearance of Canadian oarsmen in some events in this country. The national regatta for amateurs will be held at Boston, August 8th and 9th, and the American Henley at Philadelphia probably May 31st. The intercollegiate regatta at Poughkeepsie, June 21st, and Harvard-Yale at New London, June 20th.

The intercollegiate cable chess match has been arranged for April 12th, when players from Cambridge and Oxford university will match wits with a team yet to be chosen here.

Following the annual climax to the sporting season in this country, which comes with the world series baseball during the second week of October, the New York Nationals and the Chicago Americans will start on a world tour, which will carry them through almost to the commencement of another season at home in active practice.

100 Meter Dash—Won by Ralph Craig (U. S.). Time 10 4-5 sec.

200 Meter Dash—Won by Ralph Craig (U. S.). Time, 21 7-10 sec.

400 Meter Run—Won by C. R. Riedpar (U. S ). Time 48 1-5 sec*

800 Meter Run—Won by J. E. Meredith (U. S.). Time 1 min. 51 9-16 sec.

1500 Meter Run—Won by A. N. S. Jackson (England). Time 3 min. 56 4-5 sec. 5000 Meter Run—Won by H. Kolehmainen ( Finland). Time 14 min. 56 3-5 sec.

10.000	Meter Run-Won by H. Kolehmainen (Finland). Time 31 min. 20 sec. Marathon Run—Won by K. K. McArthur (South Africa). Time, 2 hrs. 36 min. 110 Meter Hurdle-Won bv F. W. Kelley (TJ. S.). Time 15 1-10 sec.

10.000	Meter Walk—Won bv G. Goulding (Canada). Time, 46 min. 28 2-5 sec. 400 Meter Relay—Won by England. Time, 42 4-10 sec.

1600 Meter Relay—Won by United States. Time 8 min. 16 3-5. sec.

3000 Meter Relay—Won by United States. No time given.

8000 Meter Cross Country Team Run—Won by Sweden. (H. Kolehmainen first.

TRACK AND FIELD RECORDS OF 1912 OLYMPIAD. TRACK EVENTS
ALL-AROUND CHAMPIONSHIP.

Pentathlon (five events)—Won by Jas. Thorpe (U. S.).

Decathlon (ten events)—Won by jas. Thorpe (U. S.).

FIELD EVENTS.

Running High Jump—Won by A. W. Richard (U. S.) Height 6 ft. 3 3-4 in. Standing Broad Jump—Won bv Tsiclitrias (Greece). Distance, 11 ft. 7-10 in. 16-ib. Shot Put-Won by P. McDonald (U. S.). 50.32 ft.

Javelin Throw (best hand)—Won by E. Lemming (Sweden). Distance. 198.4 ft. javelin Throw (both hands)—Won by J.J. Saaristo (Finland). Distance 358‘ 11 in Shot Put (both hands)—Won bv Ralph Rose (U. S.l. Distance, 90 it. 5 1-2 in. Pole Vault-Won by H. S. Babcock <U. S.) Height 12 ft. 11 1-2 in.

Running Broad Jump-Won by A. L. Gutterson (U. S.). Distance, 24 ft. 11 in. Discus (best hand)-Won by A. R. Taipale (Finland). Distance, 148 ft.l 1-2 in. Discus(bothhands)—Won by A.R Taipale (Finland). Distance 271 ft. 9 3-4 in. Standing High Jump—Won by Platt Adams (U. S.). 5 ft. 4 in.

Hammer Throw—Won by M. J. McGrash (U. S.). Distance, 180 ft. 5 in.

Hop Step and Jump-Won by Lindblom (Sweden). Distance, 48 ft. 5 1-10 in. * U. S. team disqualified in 400 Meter Relay.

SCORE.

TRACK AND FIELD EYENTS	ALL	CONTESTS

United States...	...85	United States...	...128	Canada 			13 '
Finland 		...27	Sweden		...104	Australia			13
Sweden 		...24	Great Britain ..	.... 66	Belgium			11
Great Britain...	...14	Finland		... 46	Norwav			10
Canada			... 7	Germany		... 34	Hungarv				 8
South Afrika		... 5	France		... 23-	Russia			 5
France		... 4	South Africa		... 16	Greece				 4
Germ an v		... 4	Denmark		... 14	Austria 			 4
Greece 		... 4	Italy		... 13	Holland			 2

Norway ........ 2

Hungary........ 1

Italy.......... 1	___________

WHAT AILS THE BOXING RULES?* .

By CHAS. PLUMMER, M. D., University Club, Salt Lake City, Utah.

(Conclusion.)

Let us now take up a discussion of the rules that are most important for consideration in this article and particularly concern the welfare of the sport, with the protection of the athlete and the public to a like degree.

The English rules say the ring shall not be “less than 12 feet or more than 20 feet square.” The rule governing this point in the A. A. U. rules say, “not less than 16 feet or more than 24 feet square.”

In the rule giving weight limitations’ the English allow a few more pounds in the bantam, feather and light weight classes, as follows:— A. A. U., bantam weight 105 lbs., English, 112 lbs.; A. Ai U., feather weight, 115 lbs., English, 126 lbs.; A. A. U., light weight, 135 lbs., and English, 140 lbs. We permit a class called the welter weight at 145 lbs., that the English rules do not recognize.

The matter of “seconds” allowed each man in the contests is also a subject for dispute, for the English rules allow but one “second,” and the A. A. U. rules allow two “seconds.”

The number of rounds permitted in championship and other com-

*Read before the Utah Physical Training Society.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 121 —

petitions is three in both sets of rules, and the interval between rounds, one minute, is likewise the same. But the English rules make no mention of preliminaries and “finals,” simply stating that, “The duration of the first two rounds shall be 3 minutes each, and of the third, 4 minutes.” The A. A. IJ. rules say, “The duration of rounds in the trial bout shall be limited to 3 minutes each. In the “finals” the first two rounds “will be 3 minutes each and final round 4 minutes.”

The duties of the referee are about the same, and he is the 6ole arbiter of the methods pursued by each boxer, passes upon fouls and improper tactics, and has absolute power of disqualification for the infringement of any rules, or for disobedience to any of his commands.

In both sets of rules the decision is given to that one who shows the best style in boxing and who gains the greatest number of points. These points are given for attack and defense based upon the following considerations as copied from the A. A. U. rules:—“For attack, direct cl£an hits with the knuckles of either hand, on any part of the front or sides of the head; or above the belt; defense, guarding, slipping, ducking, counter-hitting or getting away. Where points are otherwise equal, consideration to be given to the man who does most of the leading off.”

The question of the powers of the referee in these contests as carried on under these rules, is one that often causes great disagreement. For instance, the English rules consider “holding” a disqualifying act. They also disqualify for “intentionally falling without receiving a blow.” And they also empower the referee “to stop a round if in his opinion a man is outclassed or unfit to continue, and that man shall be deemed to have lost the bout.” None of these three items mentioned above are taken into consideration in the A. A. tT. rules.

It is in the above-mentioned places in the rules that there are material differences, and these variations give occasion to suggest the alteration of the rules in order to conduct the sport along lines of greater satisfaction, and to make additions that will safeguard the competitors in contests as well as prove to the public the cleanliness of the sport.

Hence, it is believed that the following observations and suggestions along these lines will prove beneficial to all those who are interested in sport for sport’s sake. In the first place allow me to say a few words relative to an amateur and to the question of amateur standing.

Primarily, an amateur is one who engages in sport purely for the love of it, and he must not seek any financial gain or support in this indulgence for physical supremacy. But because there are so many persons engaging in all kinds of sports and because so many are always looking for an opportunity to commercialize their skill, it has become necessary to formulate an amateur definition that attempts, at least, to cover all the peculiarities of the individuals participating in athletic contests. Men have always tried to evade both the spirit and the letter of the definition, and they always will try to do so; but while a few have succeeded for a little time, a great many others have been caught red-handed in their questionable procedures. So, just as sure as any

Digitized by L,ooQle
— 132 —

young, man so far forgets his pledge that he accepts pecuniary emolument in consideration for his athletic ability, his disobedience will be found out and he will some day suffer the humility of being denied permission to compete with his fellows in such contests. And that is a position that is not to be courted in the athletic world, I assure you.

As to the question of the size of the “squared circle,” for my part I do not believe it is wise to permit of the use of a ring less in size than 16 feet square. This will permit of the free movement of both contestants, .by allowing one or the other to break ground more advantageously, both in offensive and defensive work. It also furnishes better protection to fbe less scientific one of the contestants—and this is an item of consideration that cannot be overlooked. Why? Because it. is impossible to have two men come together in each bout of each class where both possess the same degree of skill and a like amount of experience. And as this should not be a game of slaughter, a ring of good size, say from 16 to 20 feet square, is the one we would advocate for adoption in all sparring contests.

A great deal of annoyance and confusion is occasioned by permitting too many so-called “seconds” in or about the ring; and often a competitor will lose a bout because of the over zealous coaching of these ardent advisers. As noted above the English conduct their amateur engagements with only one “second” allowed in the ring with the principal at any time. The more assistants there are around a combatant in an amateur set-to, the more the affair smacks of professionalism, the very feature we desire most to eliminate. Consequently, I am inclined to the belief that one man is sufficient to render all the aid that may be required as long as the number of rounds remains the same as at the present time,—so my vote is for the English way.

Ever since the days in England when British noblemen became such ardent patrons of the sport and encouraged and backed men to take part in physical combat for large sums of money, there has been an element of business about the game that has attracted a great many followers that are responsible for the degraded position which the sport now occupies. So, it is no longer a manly art as it is now conducted;, it is merely si brutal contest of human beings for physical supremacy with a financial consideration as the chief object of attainment, wherein, I am sorry to say, the better man does not always win. When amateurs copy the methods of the professional ring they not only bring the sport into disrepute, but place themselves in questionable positions,, which a discriminating public is not slow to recognize.

There is a great deal to be said in regard to the number of rounds-that 'are allowed in amateur competitions. It is a fact that defies contradiction, that the less the number of rounds prescribed for either ah amateur or a professional bout, the more liable the men are to be injured because of poor condition (or in no condition at all) to undergo* the demands of a scientific performance. Men will not train conscientiously for bouts ranging from three to six rounds, unless a rigid supervision of all aspirants in the game is begun and carried out to the demands of a consistent and intelligent management. Almost anyone who knows anything about sparring may enter a three to six round affair,.

Digitized by Google
— 123 —

ancl, protected by the rules in force today, he may cover up to save himself, or “stall” a little, and thus wait for an opportune moment to land a knock-out punch. Good judges of physical condition and ability to perform properly will tell you that it takes from four to 6ix rounds for man to get set and well to work, to be able to find themselves, so to speak, and that any route as'short as three rounds is absolutely no criterion upon which to base an accurate judgment of any man’s capabilities. A contestant who knows he has to go at least six rounds, if he be honest with himself and the sport, begins his activities with greater care, takes more time in delivering his blows and judges his distance better. When he knows that it is to end at most ' in three rounds, only nine minutes of sparring, he imagines he has no time to stand up and box skillfully, so he rushes in with a swing, misjudges his distance, uses up a lot of energy, gets excited because he missed, and, throwing caution to the'winds, he leaves an opening wherein the landing of a chance blow by a cooler or more experienced boxer drops him out of the encounter. Thus a man’s fitness, and his skill in attack and defense, as well as his foot-work, style and staying qualities, may be much more accurately judged in the longer and more carefully prepared engagement. Consequently it is my firm belief that contestants should be obliged to prepare for the bout of at least six rounds and in this wise attempt, at least, to eliminate the element of chance from the consideration.

The position of referee is one that is of the greatest consideration, for he occupies a place in the action that is all important. The part he plays requires £t peculiar grasp of the situation, with the exercise of rare judgment under all circumstances. He must have an intimate acquaintance with the art of boxing; he must know the rules in order to make an intelligent application of them at all times and often under most distressing situations; he must be able to tell quickly whether or not a blow is landed in a proper place in order to have it count for points; he must be keen enough to recognize what is called “stalling,” and at the same time have the courage of his convictions to disqualify for it-; but, above and beyond all else, he should be capable of accurately judging condition so as to stop a contest at the psychological moment and save one or the other from injury.

It must be understood that this is a fair, stand-up sport in which both men should be required to be in action all of the time/ That is, the man who “stalls,” or hangs on to save himself, or to tire his opponent, is not fulfilling the requirements of the rules and should be disqualified. The A. A. U. rules should empower a referee to stop a contest the moment it is apparent that it is a one-sided affair, or it becomes in any way brutal or it is evident that one of the competitors is out-classed or in danger of receiving injuries that might be either temporary or permanent, if the bout were allowed to continue.

I also believe that the referee should have the power to deny the right of an entrant to claim a prize, when that person has won a final without a contest, as when there is but one other in the class in which he appeared.

A man should be obliged.to show his superiority by sparring and

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 124 —

it is for, sparring alone that the. prizes are awarded. Opponents box for points that are given for a performance of stated values, as indicated above. And still, I think there is just as much real science shown by the man who skillfully counters and parries the attack of his opponent, as is shown by-the man who leads off, from the offensive- attitude, in an endeavor to win because he started his blows first. But, please understand me, that I am heartily in favor of the rule that gives the man who leads off the advantage, for if it were otherwise, each would wait for the other and there would be no blows struck in any encounter.

There aught also to be a provision inserted into the rules compelling each participant in a boxing bout to withstand a thorough physical examination at the hands of a physician who is engaged to examine all those who take part in such affairs. And this examining physician should not be allowed to undertake this peculiar task just beause he is a man in good standing in his profession and in the community in which he lives, for he should have other qualifications that will enable him to give correct and honest estimates of physical fitness, that is acquired only by an intimate association with a)l varieties of athletics as well with that which constitutes good physical condition.

There should be a place in the entery blanks of all participants that states specifically that he is physically fit to spar at least six rounds and that he affirms before witnesses that he has trained conscientiously, and that he has absolutely refrained from the use of alcohol in any form as well as from tobacco, for a certain period at least, previous to the competition in which he engages to take part. He must also aver that he has committed no other indiscretions that would be liable to unfit him for such a physical struggle. It is not at all necessary to enlarge upon such precautions, here, for any person who is honest and intelligent knows that such demands are requisite to the maintenance of a high standard of physical fitness as well as the popularity of the sport.

Another exaction of the rules should be that no matter what occasion might arise in any tournament over which the proper officials have authority, no inexperienced boxer should be pitted against an opponent who is older, who is much heavier or who has had veiy much experience in ring work. A more proper classification would be according to age, weight, size, skill and experience in order to relieve the game of much of the odium now cast upon it, and it would in this wise attract many more participants where they believed they had an equal chance with every competitor in their respective classes.

The differences in these weight clauses in the two sets of rules provokes much wrangling and is the cause of poor matching, thereby working many hardships on the various performers. This is most noticeable when open championships are held and boxers are obliged to travel to places where they must compete under the rules of a country that is not controlled by the rules under which they have been taught to spar.

It is the opinion of real boxers (not sluggers) and devotees of the aport that there should be no hitting in the clinches. A clean, open

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 125 —

break is urged and its adoption at once recommended and the sooner it is demanded by all officials backed by an earnest public, the better it will be for the game, ^in that it will remove the temptation to “slug” instead of to spar. A rational stand taken on these measures and recommendations and the hedging about of boxing by restrictions, that, to those directly and indirectly interested, is bound to save a valuable sport and do that for which it was primarily intended, namely, the perfection of a more harmonious physical and mental development.

Finally, in making a resume of what seems to me necessary alterations and additions to the rules in boxing, I would recommend the following:—

1.	That no ring should be constructed for use in A. A. U. contests that is less than 16 feet square, nor more than 20 feet square.

2.	For the benefit of all competitors the classifications should be made from other considerations than mere weight, namely, from age, weight, skill and ring experience.

3.	I would allow but one “second” to each contestant, instead of two.

4.	Under the most careful supervision I would offer six rounds for the “finals” and four rounds for the preliminaries.

5.	.Give the referee the power to disqualify for “stalling;” for holding or hanging on to avoid punishment; for hitting in the clinches; for using the so-called “kidney-punch;” and to stop a bout as soon as a contestant becomes unable to protect himself. If a clean break were inaugurated that alone would eliminate the “kidney-punch.”

6.	To require of each competitor that he undergo a thorough physical examination as prescribed above. Also that each entrant furnish satisfactory evidence of consistent, conscientious training to this examiner.

7.	That additional rules be inserted into the body of rules of the A. A. U. to properly cover the changes demanded for the best interests of the sport.

8.	To all athletes let me urge that you maintain your amateur standing at all hazards; and that you always meet your opponents in any character of athletic activity, only under the clean, gentlemanly construction of the amateur definition.

9.	That a new entry blank be drawn up that will conform to the necessities that are demanded in the new era of sport that is upon us.

• 1	»	  r—	t

Book Review.

Books reviewed in this column, as well as all books on physical training and related subjects, may be had of Mind and Body, Herold Bldg.,^Milwaukee, Wis. Send for classified catalogue of books.

✓	—“A GUIDE TO TRACK AND FIELD WORK, CONTESTS

AND KINDRED ACTIVITIES” prepared under direction of William A. Stecher, Director of Physical Education, Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa. 6 by 9 inches, 48 pages. Published by John J. MeVey, 1229 Arch Street, Philadelphia, Pa. Mailing price, 50 cents.

This pamphlet, with its appropriate illustrations, will be a great help to the average class-room teacher as well as to the teacher of

Digitized by GooQle
— 126 —

physical training who is looking for a guide for athletic activities. PART I treats Of -the theory underlying competitive activities, the physical qualifications that all competitors should have, the effects of competition, who would compete, etc. PART II speaks of the management of contests, the duties of all officials. In PART III the different events generally used in competitive work are discussed; the correct way in which activities should be undertaken; the rules governing each event; while PART IV, as an appendix, speaks of exhibitions, field days, swimming, etc.

The fact that the pamphlet brings into one booklet not only the events and rules, but also the theory underlying the events most used in every day school life makes it valuable to all teachers,

—“ANLEITUNG FUER BALLSPIELE” (Guide for Ballgames) by F. Reinberg. 1?2 pages, 5 by 7 inches. Published by B. G. Teubner, Leipzig. Price, 1 Mark 50 Pfennig.

This is one of the little books of rules published by the National Playground Association of Germany. It is profusely illustrated and contains the rules for Schlagball (batball) without a pitcher, Faustball (Volleyball) and Tamburinball. The latter gfime is a highly organized j team game for girls which from the southern part of Germany has | rapidly spread all over the country. The booklet is recommended to all teachers.

—"JAHRBUCH DER TURNKUNST” (Yearbook of Gymnastics) by Dr. Rudolf Gasch. 276 pages, 5y2 by 8 inches. Published by Emil Stock, Zwenkau—Leipzig, Germany.

This yearbook has become practically an encyclopaedia of German gymnastics. With its 272 illustrations and its wealth of material it lays before the reader the inner workings of that greatest organized body of gymnasts of our age. The German Turnerschaft has over a miliion members in its 10265 societies. In the yearbook Dr. Gasch chronicles the important happenings of this immense body in a manner that must be a source of great satisfaction to the small army of men who unselfishly work for the advancement of a great cause. The book is warmlv recommended to all who need inspiration.

GILBERT NORMAL SCHOOL 01 DANCING

Founded by Mr. Melvin B. Gilbert of Boston in 1893.

Second Season in New York June and July 1913

Complete courses for teachers in the theory and practice of dancing. The course includes Elementary Principles of Dancing, Directed Practice, Technical Training, Methods of Teaching, Folk Dancing, Russian Ballet Pancing, Aesthetic Bancing, Social Dancing including all the newer dances, Original Composition, Music in relation to Dancing, History of Dancing.

The Folk Dancing Department is under the personal supervision of Miss ELIZABETH BURCHENAL, leader of the Folk Dancing movement in America.

For circulars giving further iiiformation send toMiss SUSAN HOFFMAN GILMAN, Principal of the Gilbert Normal School of Dancing,

21 East 44th St., New York City.

Digitized by

Google