MIND AND BODY

tol. 20,

DECEMBER, 1913.

No. 224

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis. Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mas*.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa,

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis. Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

—The Athletic Research Society will have its yearly meeting irt New York City during the holiday week. In this issue we print re^ ports of two committees that should be of more than ordinary ii'K ferest to our readers because the recommendations they contain wilt underlie much of this year’s discussions. We would like to calf especial attention to the new definition of an amateur athlete with its; emphasis upon motive and attitude rather than upon skill. The* paragraph relating to “a non-competing amateur athlete” is a welcome departure from the old conception of professionalism that should receive the heartiest indorsement.

—The October 18th issue of the Survey has the following:—

“In Wisconsin a country pastor, who was once a half-back orf the Wisconsin team, until recently had a football team among his-young men, and no one rooted louder on game days than he, in spite' of the earnest prayers of some of his elders that ‘their pastor be aC more spiritual man/ In the village of Redwood Falls, Minn., a church has three boys’ clubs which are Sunday school classes on' Sunday and baseball, hockey and skeeing teams through the week. One of these clubs numbers twentv-four and is led by the proprietor of the motion-picture show of the village. These classes have monthly socials and weekly club meetings. They are recreation organizations where the boys are learning the principles of co-operation, fair play, and sportsmanship.

It is the unanimous testimony of these churches that are trying to furnish uncommercialized recreation to their communities that the results have been gratifying to the communities and to the' churches. It enlivens the people, and a lively church was never' built among a sluggish people. It makes a point of contact with the outsider—the tenant farmer and the stranger. It gets the people into the habit of coming to church for something besides funer-

NOTES AND COMMENTS

Digitized by

Google
— 322 —

als, preaching services, and temperance orations. Best of all it meets a need of the people.,,

Question:—Are you conducting your gymnasium, playground, school, etc., that it meets the need of the community, or are you simply teaching during a few hours because vou are being paid for it?

—No city can be called really well governed which does not supply clean and well paved streets and a good police department and good methods of transportation.

After all, however, these things are incidental to the main purpose for which people go to live in cities. They do not go there to build streets, or to arrest one another, or merely to travel back and forth. They travel back and forth, they establish a police force, they build and keep streets in repair for the purpose of furthering their real ends of work, self-protection, education, self-development, diversion, social life.

Sometimes such things as playgrounds, parks, recreation piers, museums and libraries, school lunches, municipal theatres, municipal markets, model tenements, social centers, have been discussed as if they were frills and furbelows. As a matter of fact they come very close to the real objects for which cities exist.

Great are the advantages produced by cities. The great civilizations of the past have expressed themselves in cities: Babylon, Jerusalem, Athens, Rome, Venice—the very name of each of these cities is emblematic of some phase of human advancement. We do not think of their streets, or their police, or their means of transportation. We think rather of their literature, or their commercial triumphs, or their religious ideals, or their schools of learning, or their treasures of art. These are the things for which cities exist. —The Outlook.

—An old book on hygiene says, “Dress is intended for the purposes of health, decency and personal adornment.” Admitting that the end of decency is well conserved bv our clothing, and that the individuals themselves will attend to the personal adornment, there is left only the consideration of the item of health at this time.

Most important and worthy of first consideration is the underwear. This, of course, should be of wool, for this material has proved to be the slowest conductor of heat from the body, an excellent absorber of moisture, permeable to air to a large degree and does not retain odors and organic matter. Besides bein^ of wool the underwear should at all times be quite loose, so as to allow a layer of air next to the body and permit the free circulation of the blood. Cotton is the poorest material for underwear, with linen only slightly better, and silk is next in quality to wool.

Digitized by
— 323 —

With a proper supply of underwear the outer garments are a secondary consideration, provided, of course, that they should always be comfortable in size and neat in appearance.

The principal thing making for health is a realization of the proper relation between the indoor and outdoor clothing of the schoolboy. While his underwear should be of wool, it should not be of heavy weight or of great thickness. The providing of such very heavy underwear by well meaning mothers often does more harm than good. It must be remembered that the boy sits most of his time in a warm school room heated to a uniform temperature of from 66 to 68 degrees. Wearing the very heavy underwear he is in a constant state of excessive lx)dily warmth, and when he puts on an ordinary overcoat and goes out into the winter air, there is not sufficient difference between his indoor and outdoor dress to counteract the difference in temperatures, and the result is a bad cold, often lasting all winter, and frequently leading to worse troubles. If the underwear be of light weight wool, however, the normal bodily temperature of about 99 degrees will be readily maintained when indoors, and provision for the outdoor temperature should be made by supplying the boy with a very heavy and warm overcoat.

Any kind of waterproof clothing should be worn as little as possible, as it effectually prevents the necessary access of air to the surface of the skin.

The protection of the feet often receives entirely too little attention. Care in providing shoes that fit well often prevent future deformities, and seeing that the shoes are free from holes in sole and top will prevent cold and damp feet, the cause of many dangerous troubles. The toes should be allowed plenty of room and the soles should be flexible and heels low. Bovs are naturally fond of rubber boots and if able to secure a pair will don them at the slightest excuse. In wet weather they are an excellent protection, but if worn all day in the school room cause overheating and perspiration of the feet and legs, frequently giving rise to bad colds, thus undoing all the good they did in protection outside. Rubber overshoes should also be removed while in school.

NORMAL COLLEGE N. A. G. U., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

—Field and track work has been discontinued until the spring term, and advanced apparatus work for efficiency substituted. The men have, however, taken up soccer football, to be continued as long as the weather permits.

The women of the Normal College have organized the Sigma Phi Sorority, the purpose of which is to promote physical training and the welfare of all women engaged in the profession. It is the desire of the women to make this organization one of national character with a chapter in every school of physical training.

Digitized by G-ooQle
— 324 —

The second tramp of the year was taken Tuesday, November 4th, when the men covered about ten miles and the women eight. These tramps give the students an opportunity to get out in the open and are enjoyed by all.

A farmer’s dance was given by the Students Alliance Saturday evening, Nov. ist. Everyone wore a costume in keeping with the occasion causing much good natured fun during the evening.

—Swimming has taken such a hold of our boys and girls that the following rules relating to the Badge-test held by the Public Athletic League of Baltimore, Md., should be of value:

BOYS.

BRONZE BADGE.

1.	Swim io yards, any stroke for form or style and make 60 points of a possible ioo points for perfection.

2.	Dive into water and receive for form of same 6o points out of ioo for perfection.

3.	Swim 25 yards in 23 seconds.

SILVER BADGE.

1.	Do a back stroke for form and make 60 points out of a possible 100 for perfection.

2.	Do a front and back dive and receive for form of same 80 points out of a possible 100.

3.	Swim 200 yards in 3 minutes and 45 seconds.

GOLD BADGE.

1.	Do front and back dives, front jack and back jack and get 300 out of a possible 400 points.

2. Swim 100 yards in 1 minute and 30 seconds.

3. Swim 300 yards in 5 minutes and 15 seconds.

GIRLS.

BRONZE BADGE.

1.	Swim 10 yards with any stroke for form or style and make 50 points out of 100 points for perfection.

2.	Dive into water and receive for form of same 50 points out of 100 points for perfection.

3.	Swim 25 yards in 28 seconds.

SILVER BADGE.

1.	Swim the back stroke 10 yards for form and receive 50 points out of 100 points for perfection.

2.	Do a front dive and receive 75 points out of 100 points for perfection.

3.	Swim 100 yards in 2 minutes and 15 seconds.

GOLD BADGE.

t. Do front and back dives and receive 60 points out of 100 points, j

2.	Swim 50 yards in 60 seconds.

3.	Swim 150 yards in 3 minutes and 30 seconds.

Digitized by Google
— 325 —

THE MODERN TREND OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION *

By CA&L 5$IEGLERf ]£. D., B. S. G., Supervisor of Fbygic^J, Training and Bygiene, Cincinnati Public Schools! '

“It is not a soul, it is not a J>ocJy that we are training up,

but a man, and we ought nojt to divide him.”

This quotation, written 150 years ago by Montaigne, should ever be the watchword of ^J1 educators. We must always remember that we cannot train the mind and neglect the body, neither should we attempt to develop the body at the expense of the mind, but we must train both mind and body, so as to produce a whole man. That is the idea underlying modern physical education.

In order to understand this rnodern view of physical education, one must be somewhat conversant with the origin and growth of the whole movement, especially as if applies to this country.

We will not hark back to the time of the ancient Greeks, nor even to the renaissance of physical education, except to point out the fact that it was Friedrich Ludwig Jahn, the originator of modern gymnastics, who made tfye cenjtenni.al celebration now going op in Germany possible. It was he who preached to a decadenjt people the doctrine^ of physical regeneratiQn; who pointed out to the youth of the fatherland the fact that if Germany would be free, if the Germans would shake off th/e hated yoke of Frepch oppression, they must make themselves physically fft for the impending struggle; and it was he who instructed the young men in the rudiments of gymnastics, so that when the firne came, they were physically prepared to take up arms in behalf of their country.

In the United States there have been many men who preached physical efficiency. It would take too long fo enumerate them or to discuss their fads and foibles, although the latter would b,e exceedingly interesting.

I	cannot refrain from mentioning at least one of the e^irly attempts at systematic physical training, because it is of especial interest to u$. In the year 1857 A. J. Rickoff, the Superintendent of schools in this city, in his annual report says: ‘The enterprise and liberality of individual trustees has resulted in the placing of a few parallel bars, horizontal ladders, and circular swings upon the playgrounds of four of our school-houses.” Further, he recommends that, “provision be at once made for instructing the teachers employed in the schools in such a system of gymnastics as shall be adapted to the several grades in the schools, from the first to the sixth.” In i860 Louis Graeser was elected Supervisor of Gymnastics and continued in office until 1873. You see by this, that even fifty years ago Cincinnati was an educational leader.

•Read at the Cincinnati Schoolmasters’ Club October 11th, 1913.

Digitized by O-ooQle
— 326 —

Most of the early advocates of gymnastics had but a single aim: namely, to develop great strength. No doubt some of you can recall the series of heavy dumbbells, ranging from 15 to 150 pounds, that were to be found in every gymnasium thirty or forty years ago; Indian clubs, weighing five, ten and fifteen pounds were considered a necessity, and the person who could not swing them for at least five minutes was considered of no account. Feats of strength, such as lifting great weights, breaking chains, pushing up large dumbbells innumerable times were the order of the day.

The instructors were recruited largely from the ranks of the circus performers, professional wrestlers and prize fighters. Even to this day, men of this type are filling, or better, trying to fill, responsible positions under the hio-h sounding title, “Professor of Physical Culture.”

That these men did some good there is no doubt, but they also did a great deal of harm. Many of their pupils were permanently injured, and not a few are filling premature graves.

To this day, the word “gymnasium” brings to thousands of minds visions of broken arms and dislocated limbs, and chills run up and down their spines as they recall the thrillers witnessed at the last circus or vaudeville which they attended.

Today conditions are entirely changed. Instead of great strength, health is the first consideration; instead of big bunches of muscle, we seek symmetrical and harmonious development, good posture, easy and graceful movements, which give evidence of nervous control and co-ordination; these are preferred to the stiff, awkward movements of the muscle-bound gymnast. Apollo rather than Hercules is the modern ideal.

So complete is the change that even the old names are no longer considered adequate. Gymnastics is not inclusive enough; Physical Culture has fallen into disrepute; Physical Training is rapidly losing favor; Physical Education, because of its inclusiveness, is now given the preference.

% This very properly brings up the questions:	What is the mean-

ing of this new name? What does it include in its meaning?

Heretofore, we have thought of education simply as a mental process; as the act of acquiring knowledge. This knowledge is mostly of external things and is acquired by a study of books; and the person who has command of language, mathematics, history, etc., is said to be educated. But this education has seldom been applied to the individual—has not given him a knowledge of himself. Herbert Spencer said: “Many a man who is versed in Latin and Greek does not know where his Eustachian tubes are.” Now, it may not be essential that a man know that he has Eustachian tubes, but if he does know it, he will probably also know that the closure of them will produce deafness, and he will most likely refer to a physician
— 327 —

the child who is hard of hearing, or consult one himself if he finds he is growing prematurely deaf.

This then, is what Physical Education seeks to do: To impart such knowledge as will enable each individual to know himself; to teach him what a wonderful machine the human body is. Having learned that, he must and will learn to take care of it; to take care of it by natural methods and not resort to all sorts of drugs and nostrums to stimulate what should be natural functions.

Therefore, Physical Education means:	i.	A comprehensive

knowledge of the human body and its functions; 2. How to keep the body in the best possible condition and in the highest state of efficiency; and 7. How to use that body to the best advantage of the individual himself and for the good of the community in which he lives.

This implies: 1. A study of Personal Hygiene and Sanitation. This must include Diet. Ventilation, Rest, Clothing, Cleanliness, both of person and surroundings. 2. Regulated Motor Activities. Under this head are included all the recognized forms of exercise known as Gymnastics; Folk and other forms of Dancing; Athletics and Games, including all forms from the Ring and Song Games of the Kindergarten to Tennis and Golf, but more especially the Competitive and Team Games to be played after the tenth or twelfth year; Boxing and Wrestling; Fencing and Shooting: Riding, Swimming and Rowing; in fact all the forms of physical activity suited to the age and conditions of the individual.

Such exercises will promote health by stimulating the heart and lungs, by improving digestion and assimilation, and by increasing excretion and elimination of waste.

There must also be certain forms of exercise that will produce grace and harmony of motion, that require co-ordination and nervous control. There must be corrective exercises that will overcome the effects of occupational or habit defects; exercises that will develop symmetrically all the muscles of the body, thus producing good posture, correct poise and graceful carriage, as well as stamina and endurance. Lastlv, we must have exercises that develop character, honor, courage, determination,—and all other attributes of good man and womanhood.

Thus, we will educate a whole man,—Physically, Morally and Intellectually, and not divide him as has been the custom.

Having shown you what Physical Education is or should be, let us see what the conditions are in our schools and what we can do to bring them nearer to the ideal.

When Gymnastics was reintroduced into the curriculum of our schools twenty-one years ago, and your humble servant was called to the Supervisorship, a member of the Board of Education asked: “Do you think that the ten minutes per dav set aside for this work

Digitized by UooQle
— 32$ —

will be sufficient to 4q any good?” My answer w^s: “Nq. If I thought that we would go on doing that forever, I wqu14 ac-cetp the position. I consider this but an entering wedge, f expect to see the .time when at least half an hour per day will be devoted to physical exercise; when every school will have a gymnasium for indoor work in winter and ample play-ground space for all outdoor activities in pleasant weather; when each school will have a Physical Director and when gymnastics will be as much a part of the curriculum as Arithmetic now is.”

We have not quite reached the goal, but we are on the way* Instead of four assistants, which at first comprised the Department, there are now twenty-eight, including the swimming teachers. The time allowance has been increased fifty per cent; there are thirty-four gymnasiums in the sixty-four school buildings; several school grounds have been enlarged and some of those in the suburbs approach closely the norm set by the N. E. A. namely, 270 square feet per pupil. In addition, we have what I did not dare hope for; i. e., swimming pools, of which we now have four in the high and three in the elementary schools. Two schools now planned or building will have a pool each and it is unlikely that any school will be built •in the future without this necessary adjunct. I am, therefore, optimistic enough to believe that the hope expressed will come true.

This will mean that* some of you must change your idea of time values; that we must cut off a few minutes from the so-called solid subjects; that we must readjust the schedule. This will be for the good of the pupils, because a better nhysical basis will mean a better mental attitude.

It will also mean that you must accord to the subject of Hygiene the attention which it merits. Here, too, some may h^ve to experience a change of heart. The old Physiology is a .thing of the past, never to be resurrected. The present method does not teach the number and names of the bones, but how to make them strong and healthy; does not tax the pupil’s mind with the names of the nerves, but teaches the importance of the nervous system and its care; concerns itself less with the process of digestion than with the foods that are to be digested. So here, also, there must be a change of alignment; there must be still further pruning of the time from the traditional subjects to make room for this new course and give to it the proper amount of time. Though we are now doing much for the physical welfare of the children, we are not doing enough, and all this work in school must be augmented by volunteer work out of school hours. This volunteer work must consist of Athletics for boys and girls, organized walks, field excursions, tramps of several days’ duration, organized games in the school yard or a nearby play-ground, not only for a few weeks at a time, but all summer and, surely, all winter. (Soccer football is an ideal winter game.)

Digitized by Google
— 329 —

The Boy Scouts and the Camp Fire Girls are doing a good work as regards “Hikes,” but it is not sufficient. Not only are there not enough members, but they do not go as often as they might. Cincinnati and the adjacent territory lends itself wonderfully to short trips of a few miles. The scenery is beautiful and well worth seeing and it is a pity that not more people take advantage of the opportunity to get out into the open. Cannot we teach the young people to appreciate what their elders are missing?

It has frequently been said in these meetings that Cincinnati was to be congratulated upon the fact that it has so many men in the schools, proportionately more than any other city. Should not that fact have a bearing upon the athletics for boys in our schools? There should not be a single school in the city without its athletic association, without its walking club, without its school, class and interschool athletics. Will you do your share to make it so ?

I	appeal to you collectively and individually to help us carry forward this new work in education, not only for the honor and glory of our beloved city, but for the good of mankind. Let us give? our children not only knowledge, but also the vitality and vigor to put it to good use. More than two thousand years ago, Juvenal said: “It were well that a sound mind dwelt in a sound body/' Every boy and girl in our schools should conform to that standard.

HYGIENIC COSTUME FOR HIGH SCHOOL GIRLS.

By LEONHARD FELIX FULD, LL. M., Ph. D., Examiner, Municipal Civil Service Commission. New York City.

I.	Cleanliness. The cardinal principles of a hygienic costumC for high school girls are cleanliness, comfort, simplicity, and moderation in style. Cleanliness is an instinctive virtue of the American girl. Reference to it need be made by the teacher only when adverse home conditions render it difficult for the girl to gratify her instinctive love of cleanliness of person and cleanliness of costume. The subject should be handled carefully and considerately by the teacher who should avoid wounding the feelings of the pupil and should also refrain from casting additional burdens upon the pupil’s mother who is seeking to give her daughter the advantages of a high school education under conditions of hardship to herself. Every high school should contain facilities for bathing and every high school curriculum should make provision for giving to the girls instruction in the cleaning of clothing of all kinds.

II.	Comfort. Comfort can be obtained by the high school girl only when her costume is properly designed, carefully fitted and so

♦Read at the International Congress on School Hygiene, Buffalo', N. Y., August, 1913.

Digitized by
— 330-

ad justed that there is no danger of its coming apart. Although the proper design of the costume would be assured by providing for a school uniform the American girl’s love of individuality rebels against such a provision. Systematic instruction in the elements of proper design from a hygienic point of view should be given in the school room, special emphasis being given to the neck, the waist and the feet. In particular, teachers should call attention to the virtues of neatness which will insure the careful fitting of all clothes and their proper adjustment. Neatness of costume is frequently an index of orderliness of thought which is a valuable aid to success in

III.	Simplicity and Moderation. Under the complex conditions of modern civilization simplicity and moderation are virtues which have been largely lost. The beauty of simplicity seems not to be appreciated and the attention which every normal girl craves is not obtained by the virtue of simplicity nor by the wearer of a costume which shows moderation in style. The increasing demand for police regulation of the subject shows the need for improvement but lacks an appreciation of the proper method of attack. Education is a more effective weapon against the evils of dress than repression. Instruction in the methods of making simple garments more beautiful will quickly cause such prettv simple clothing to supplant the more expensive and elaborate clothing and the curriculum of every high school should make provision not only for instruction in the necessitv for moderation in the style of clothing but also in the reasons which render it undesirable that girls wear clothing lacking this essential.

IV.	Present Day Gymnastic Costume. These principles of the hygienic costume 'are applicable both to the costumes of the classroom and to the costume of the gymnasium. In the case of the classroom costume it is desirable to stimulate the girl’s individual ideas of suitable clothing by instruction in the hygiene of the classroom costume: in the case of the gymnastic costume on the other hand, it is desirable to prescribe a school uniform. The defects of the present day gymnastic costume for girls from a hygienic point of view may be summarized as follows: the wearer of a two-piece suit is always conscious of the possibility of its separating into its component elements. The presence of irritating serge or of moisture absorbing flannel at the neck is neither comfortable nor hygienic. A costume requiring adjustment at the neck, at the waist and at the knee after each vigorous exercise robs the pupil of that mental repose which it is desirable a girl should possess, in order that she may receive the maximum l>enefit from the time spent by her in the o^rni-nasium. The multinlicity of belts at the waist constituting at times more than a dozen thicknesses of material is not to be recommended. And finally a costume which is cleaned only once a year, if at all,

life.
— 331 —

and which is at times worn as an undergarment when not worn as a gymnastic costume, deserves the severest condemnation not only from those interested in hygiene but from all interested in decency.

V.	Model Gymnastic Costume. The gymnastic costume of which a model is being exhibited at this congress remedies all of the defects of the present day gymnastic costume for high school girls. It is a one-piece costume without a belt and without a waist. The suit is a one-piece slip coming over the shoulders with two shoulder straps and buttoning down the front under one of several large box plaits. A loose girdle is fastened at the back of the waist and drops low in front. At the neck a guimpe of some thin, soft, washable material is worn insuring a cool and comfortable feeling and absolute cleanliness at those points which are not generally covered by underclothing. Knee length closed tights are worn under the bloomers ; an undervest or combination undergarment may also be worn. In this way every portion of the costume which comes into direct contact with the body is of washable material and is cleaned at frequent intervals. In place of torturing round garters at the knees, a stocking girdle is provided which is worn not on the iliac crests, but crosses the sacrum in the back and slants down just on top of the trochanter, buckling over the pubic bones. This costume embodies the cardinal principles of cleanliness, comfort, simplicity and moderation in style. If the entire costume is manufactured of washable material it may be used as a classroom costume in addition to being a gymnastic costume by the addition of a short skirt in the classroom. Variations in the style of the guimpe and in the design of the costume itself will allow ample opportunity for the display of the girl’s individuality.

NOTE:—Interested readers can obtain from Dr. Fuld by correspondence such additional information as they may desire.—Ed.

JOTTINGS FROM DIFFERENT ADDRESSES DELIVERED AT THE INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS ON SCHOOL HYGIENE, BUFFALO, AUGUST 1913.

By WILLIAM A. STECHER.

Teachers should aim to secure for their pupils habits of normal association, first by positive work designed to foster these habits, and secondly, by a firm-stand against all abnormal habits.

While muscular activity is good, educative muscular activity, (motor training of all kinds) during which the educational end is prominently kept in view is better.

In order to lessen the nervous strain placed upon the pupils by the modem school we need more recesses per day and a better distribution of the time assigned for such purposes.

In rating the effect of mental and physical work, pace is fully

Digitized by
— 332 —

as important a factor in causing fatigue as is duration. If the pace is too fast harm usually results.

If one school subject immediately follows another much of the work done is never assimilated. Time is needed for the permanent retention of facts, for the assimilation of stimuli. It appears that from 5 to io minutes are needed for the mind to organize new facts and correlate them with facts already possessed. (Here is the place for recreative rhythmic gymnastics, but not for response-work.)

The light in dark rooms can be improved by putting prismatic glass in the upper sashes and reflect the light against a White ceiling. The dark side of a room also can be made lighter by having white writing-boards on that side. Excessive light is as fatiguing to the eyes as is insufficient light. The eye can readily accommodate itself to great extremes of illumination. In school life the greatest danger from eye strain comes from the fact that many children who sit in dark parts of the room, and whose eyes have accommodated themselves to this light, often must look upon brilliantly lighted black-board surfaces. This causes eye-strain. Light reflected from highly polished desks or other furniture is often a cause of eve-strain. Shades in school-rooms should never be permanently fixed. They should be of such character that they easily may be moved up or down as the constantly changing position of the sun may demand.

The discussions as to the best system of heating and ventilating brought out the fact that there is a growing conviction among heating engineers as well as among school men that there should be a complete separation of the two systems. Direct heating of the rooms by means of steam or hot water nines, and added to this an adequate sunnly of fresh air warmed to the temperature of the room appears to be the goal modern engineers are striving for. This would allow any room that is overheated to be cooled or ventilated by opening the windows.

Compulsory education means physical as well as mental training. Health is the foundation unon which our future is based. The greater the economic struggle the greater value has health. In forming a curriculum the time necessary to safeguard health should first be considered, then the hours for mental education. These latter hours will then determine how much of the so-called essentials shall be taught.

In using exercise to further sleep it never must be forgotten that exercise must not be of such character that it leads to nervousness. Sleep should be quiet. It must not be preceded bv hours of intensive study. If it is the nervous system suffers.

Digitized by Google
— 333 — .

During the years of puberty (14-16 years) weak children should be shielded from excessive physical and mental work.

If a girl (or boy) cannot master her home study by nine o’clock this is a certain $ign that a nervous breakdown will follow (even in the high school period) if the amount of work is not decreased.

Night work for children is prohibited in factories, why not in homes where it often is found in the form of excessive home study. Mental labor is more detrimental to the nerves than physical work.

THE HYGIENIC AND PEDAGOGICAL IMPORTANCE OF PLAY DURING SCHOOL.

Address Before the «Fourth International Congress on School Hygiene, Buffalo, August, 1913. By ERNST HERMANN, Supt. of Playgrounds, Newton, Mass., Director Physical Education, Cambridge and Boston.

From whatever point of view we study the value of play as a part of every child’s school education we will find that it is of such great importance both pedagogically and hvp-ienically, that we cannot any longer look upon it only as a valuable substitute for the spanking rod or a kindness and special concession on the part of the teach- • er who finds herself at the end of her powers for keeping up interest and deportment. Nor do we meet the needs of our high school pupils by a tolerance of athletics as a kind of moral anema for congested scholarly ambitions.

The nearest approach to a real understanding of the pedagogical value of play we find in Froebel’s methods. But unfortunatelv his kindergarten system is very badlv applied to present day needs of the 20th century child and the present physical and mental make up of children. As Froebel’s methods are being taught todav in the school rooms they are used about two years too early. The Monte-sory method is pedagogically as well as hygienically much nearer the actual needs of the average American city child of 3, 4 and 5 years of age. But both these methods will not meet the physiological needs of the children unless more out door free play with proper equipment is added.

Our one morning and one afternoon recess and our artificial system of school room gymnastics, relief drills, breathing movements, fancy calisthenics, corridor promenading, change from so-called purely intellectual to semi-intellectual or manual training lessons are absolutely insufficient for the daily physiological needs of children. Two or three physical training lessons a week are sufficient for the development of special skill and the acquisition of knowledge of good poise, forms of exercises, and for training in military discipline and for the training of perfect and instant reactions. Such lessons should be classed with all other pedagogical means and must be subject to the same recreational variations.

But all these things do not insure the best possible functioning

Digitized by Google
— 334 —

of the child's whole physical system. Without the perfect functioning of all the vital parts of the mechanism good and really efficient mental processes are impossible. If under these conditions forced pedagogical means are now employed to secure attention and deportment, the child's powers of concentration and attention, discrimination and logic, interest and enthusiasm, are systematically weakened, and, in a few years deteriorate beyond recovery. The prolonged forcing of mental processes is always in itself a serious offence in education. With children not in perfect condition, due to slower circulation of blood and lymph and respiration with increased presence of waste products of metabolism, due to the growing process plus sedentary work, such working means a constant nerve waste which must finally result in breakdown.

It is hardly necessary for me to point out to this audience our rapidly increasing knowledge of the real function of the lymphatic system, nor do I need to emphasize here the fact that the lymphatic system does depend upon the muscular system for its proper functioning even more than the blood system.

From birth on the child unconsciously shows us the way nature proceeds. It is alternately active and at rest, apparently busy at all times. Yet there is alternation of activity and repose. Always it grows in spurts. A period of growth is followed by a period of settling down. Nature in all its processes proceeds rhythmetically. To force (not necessarily by physical means) a young child of 4 years to a continuous mile-walk will very seriously affect his neuromuscular system, since his powers of endurance are not yet mature enough for such exertions. Prolonged severe exertion will result in a stunted growth of the physical body. How much more dangerous are our present day school methods of long continued and forced attention under lowered physiological efficiency?

My first contention therefore is this :

The periods of forced attention under sedentary indoor conditions must be shortened.

With children of 4 and 5 years, 15 minute periods of directed and spontaneous activities should alternate.

Six, seven and eight year old children should have half hour periods. The periods should alternate indoors and outdoors.

From there on throughout the rest of the grammar grades the child should have at least twenty minutes in every sixty minutes devoted to wholesome outdoor physical recreation.

Germany made a step in the right direction when five years ago they ordered a fifteen minutes' outdoor recess in every sixty minutes of school, instead of the up to that time optional 10 or 15 minutes recess in every hour. They proved the value of 5 extra minutes in the physiological economy of growing children.

I do not care how much we alter the study plan in our primary
— 335 —

and grammar schools in order to lessen physiological strain. My twenty years of experience as director of physical training has showii me the utter inadequacy of such relief measures as drills and breathing movements. (Again I fail to see the need here of quoting from my experience the fact that present day schooling does interfere with* perfect physical growth. This congress will get the figures from special investigators who can quote convincing figures. My experience comes from many years of school work and the actual examinations of tens of thousands of children of all grades of public as well as private schools.)

Nothing can possibly be as beneficial as an outdoor period of 15 to 20 minutes every hour with the opportunity for actual relaxation, perfect change of environment, and its vigorous and spontaneous physical actions and the mental tonic which comes from wholesome children’s play.

I am first and last a firm believer in the efficacy of systematic physical training throughout all our grades. But in the schools I would treat this subject like any other pedagogical subject. But to insure daily and hourly physiological efficiency in the schools I found nothing as effective as out-door play recesses.

Our high school plan of daily seven hour session with 5 minutes between periods and one half hour recess for lunch and relaxation is to my mind the greatest and most deplorable folly in American school hygiene. In these schools4 we deal mainly with adolescence or post adolescence when heart and lungs have their most rapid growth. If we want to make real progress in the fight against consumption and against the increasing nervous disorders the question of high school hours should receive our very serious consideration. I do not know of any more important phase except may be that of the adolescent factory and shop worker. Unrelieved sedentary work during adolescence means undersized lungs and undeveloped hearts. Beside this question the matter of school luncheons falls into insignificance, especially since the two session plan would solve the matter of luncheons bv giving the home a chance to provide breakfast and luncheons at reasonable hours.

The hygienic importance of play as a part of our school education is however overshadowed by its great and ever increasing ped-agogical value.

We can only realize this if we study the environment and the conditions of the children below seven years. Every one here will admit that the first seven to nine years of a child’s life are of the utmost importance as brain making years. The physical growth of the brain is practically completed at 9 years. The development and the modification of the motor areas of the brain during these years determine to a very large extent the future mental capacity and characteristics of the child. If the motor life of the child is a lim-

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 336 —

ited one during the first years of its existence his capacity for future mental training will be limited. To quote Dr. Stanley Hall,

“The motor areas are closely related and largely identical with the psychic, and muscle culture develops brain centres as nothing else yet demonstrable does. Muscles are the vehicles of habituation, imitation, obedience, and of character and of manners and customes. For the young • motor education is cardinal and has now come into due recognition. All education is incomplete without a motor side.”

Herein lies the whole foundation of our education. But this foundation is practically laid before the children come to school. For twenty years I have observed our pedagogues putting into our schools one new thing after another in an effort to make our school education more effective. All kinds of physical and manual training has been added and still we hear that our children are not well versed in the three R’s, and that our schools are overloaded with fads and fancies. Why is it that our children do seem to lose interest after a few years of schooling? Why is it that even in our upper grammar grades practically one half of our pupils need an intellectual forcing process? Why do we have so many young precocious children who soon fall below the average?

The reason lies in the poor, motor-life of the child before it comes to school and consequently in a too early application to purely mental training when it enters school.

The kindergarten and the primary schooling is today in the greatest need of our profoundest attention. If we can correct this we can do away with many of the so-called fads and fancies during later school years.

In my opinion no other age of childhood is more largely handicapped than the pre-school age. The home environment of a child up to 7 years of age is our greatest drawback today.

Ash barrel backyards and cloth-line rear porches are the training grounds of young America. The streets are now unsafe. The houses are over stocked with ready made furniture. Stairs, alley-ways and narrow sidewalks are all that is left. Even in the better homes the child has no room to play. Creeping among fancy furniture and bric-a-brac, dressed up like dolls, hours a day in perambulators and not even a mother’s lap for first leg-work are possible.

Where do our boys get their opportunities for chores and occupation play? The father is never home and the old-fashioned doing of things in the home and for the home have disappeared. Everything is ready made.

Even if a young child does now get valuable sense stimulations from his environment, where is the chance for him to react upon

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— 337 —

them with his muscles ? There is no educational value in sense stimulation without motor reactions. How then can he have a well developed motor brain when he comes to us in the schools. Is it wise under these conditions to submit him at once to intellectual training? Is it wise to submit him to long periods of sedentary training? Is it wise to demand application and concentration?

Would it not be better to give him for several years more art environment where spontaneous application is possible, where his motor brain will have time to mature and where his social instincts can be cultivated by means of free and wholesome mingling with other children. Let us postpone our intellectual education a number of years and let us start a few years earlier to provide for him a playground where his imagination may be stimulated and where his spontaneous enthusiasm may find wholesome and diversified motor outlets.

My second contention therefore is, that we must cut off at least two years of our primary school desk education and substitute fof these playrooms and playyards, and that we must get hold of the children at least 2 years earlier than we do by providing baby playgrounds in every primary school district.

By playgrounds I do not mean only a ball field or a place filled with swings and other apparatus, but a place where the child can get in touch with “mother” earth, a place resembling an old fashioned backyard and garden and farm, a place full of opportunities for doing things, for caring for things, for testing latent powers of muscular control. A place filled with opportunities for occupation play and for imitation of everything that moves and acts.

(To be concluded.)	jj

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE APPOINTED BY THE ATHLETIC RESEARCH SOCIETY ON THE DEFINITION OF AN AMATEUR.

The task assigned to this committee was a very difficult one, and although this report is brief it represents considerable time and thought on the part of the members of the committee.

The work of the committee has been based largely upon previous studies and reports bearing on this question, particularly the report of the committee on an Amateur Law, read at the Intercollegiate Athletic Association Convention, New York, December 28, 1909.

At the very outset it was recognized that the definition must be' a general one which would be international in scope and cover the! conditions met with in all of the varied institutions and organiza!-tions interested in promoting Amateur Athletics upon the highest educational and moral plane.

It was also recognized that the definition should be based upon

Google
— 338 —

the motive or mental attitude, and upon conduct as an index of motive, rather than upon the skill or experience of the competitor, or a detailed study of technical violations.

After careful consideration the committee recommends the adoption of the following as the definition of an Amateur Athlete:

“An Amateur Athlete is one who participates in competitive physical sports only for the direct pleasure of the game.”

Explanation of the definition:

1.	It includes only those who actually participate. Others may be amateur in spirit but not until they enter competitive events is it necessary to consider their standing.

2.	The participation must be of a competitive character. No rules or regulations should be construed to prevent any individuals or groups from engaging in social or friendly games or sports.

3.	The term “Athlete” is used to designate one who participates in physical sport. This is to distinguish the athlete from one who engages in other games and sports in which the physical ability of the competitor is not the prime factor, e. g., checkers, yachting, etc.

4.	The force of the entire definition hinges upon the phrase “only for the direct pleasure of the pame.” This aims to determine the amateur standing of an individual according to whether he is playing for the love of the game or from some other motive.

5.	The pleasure may be through the physical, mental, moral or social benefits, but it should be the direct result of the actual participation and not because of indirect pleasure resulting from indirect benefits, such as material or economic advantages, etc.

The following is recommended for adoption as the definition of a professional:

“A professional Athlete is one who participates in competitive physical sports from motives of material or economic gain, or who competes under an assumed name, or with or against a professional for a prize or a share of admission fees.”

APPLICATION OF THE DEFINITION OF AN AMATEUR ATHLETE.

The adoption of the definition should be with a thorough understanding of its practical application to specific problems and it is recommended that the following rulings be accepted as the interpretation when applied to particular violations.

* Violations which make one a professional, and for which there js no reinstatement (see note)

(a)	Competing under salary, or for a fee. (b) Competing for a cash prize, (c) Competing under an assumed name, (d) Competing in activities in which one is a professional teacher, (e) Competing against a professional, (f) Wilful misrepresentation of facts regarding eligibility, ability or performance. (g) Disposing of prizes for gain, (h) Accepting or offering inducements or premi-
— 339 —

urns, other than legitimate amateur sanctioned prizes, (i) Accepting or offering share of gate receipts.	Accepting or	offering

excessive reimbursements for expenses as competitor or official, (k) Officiating or promoting competitive physical sports for personal gain. (1) Officiating or promoting professional contests.

The foregoing interpretations have to do only with the amateur standing of an individual. This must not be confused with the question of eligibility. Amateurism is the one essential that is common to all amateur athletic contests, but it may be only one of a number of elements essential to eligibility. Others may have to do with sex, age, membership, experience, ability, scholarship, etc.

While institutions or organizations may determine their own technical regulations and conditions of eligibility, they must all unite upon a common amateur definition together with its interpretation. In this way only is it possible to unify and standardize amateur sport on a national basis.

The committee recognizes that some of these rulings set a higher standard than may be attained at once in some institutions, and yet, we believe it is wise to recommend these for a national basis toward which all may wrork so that in a few years every recognized institution and organization will be actually living up to the letter and spirit of the definition of an amateur together with its interpretation.

If the standard is set low enough to allow the present practices of all institutions to continue it would only serve to lower the plane on which athletics are now conducted in many institutions and organizations. On the other hand, if a high standard is adopted as one that is practical and attainable, it will serve as an incentive to better conditions to all who subscribe to it.

In ruling upon any individual case, allowance should be made for youthful and unintentional infractions.

In justice to the rapidly increasing number of men who, because of their interest in athletics from an educational standpoint, devote all or a part of their time as Physical Directors, School Teachers, Coaches, Playground Directors, Church and Settlement Work-eis, etc., the committee recommends the adoption of the following definition:

“A Non-competing Amateur Athlete is one who has maintained his standing as an amateur in all other respects, except that he has been engaged as an instructor or official in amateur athletics.”

The committee is not agreed as to the wisdom of providing for the reinstatement of such non-competing amateurs, but suggests the following for consideration:

A non-competing amateur athlete may be reinstated after a period of one (or two) years has (or have) elapsed since he last taught. The application for reinstatement must be accompanied

Digitized by O-ooQle
— 340 —

with an affidavit to the effect that the applicant has maintained his standing as an amateur athlete in all other respects except that he has been engaged as an instructor in amateur athletics, and that he has not taught during the past one (or two) years, and that he does not expect to teach athletics again. A non-competing amateur shall be reinstated once only.

While we unanimously recommend the adoption of the definition of a non-competing amateur, we appreciate that there are two sides to the'question of reinstatement.

Naturally one of the first questions arising in the minds of those who study this report is, “Can the Amateur definition be applied? Is it practical ?” We believe it can be applied provided the conditions essential to the successful application of any such law prevail. Education, Organization, Co-operation and Leadership are necessary.

Through the Athletic Research Society and kindred organizations the broadest education must be given to the real functions and value of athletics.

The National Federated Committee, representing the various national institutions interested in athletics, must perfect its organization so that it will be a vital factor in standardizing and unifying ideals and regulations.

These national institutions must promote vigorously the adoption of policies and methods in harmony with the National Federated Committee.

State, District, County and City Federations should be promoted and organized, bringing together the different clubs and organizations which are conducting athletics on the principles laid down in the National Athletic Platform.

There is no place for the irresponsible club or the unattached athlete in organized athletics. Every boy and every man should be vouched for by, and held responsible to, a recognized organization. This may mean the school, church, playground, college, Y. M. C. A., settlement, etc.

Only in this way can the Amateur definition be applied. Each institution must adopt it and make it national. Each organization or unit in these national institutions will then adopt it.

It will thus become the basis of determining the amateur standing in all federations.

More important than the usual form of registration would be the declaration of amateurism on the part of each individual at the time when he first enters competitive athletics. We therefore recommend in conclusion, that the following statement be considered and given wide circulation as a form of Amateur declaration.

DEFINITION OF AN AMATEUR ATHLETE.

An amateur athlete is one who participates in competitive physical sports only for the direct pleasure of the game.
— 341 —

THE SPIRIT OF AMATEURISM.

The spirit of amateurism carries with it all that is included in the definition of an amateur athlete and much more.

The spirit of amateurism stands for a high sense of honor, honesty, fair play, courtesy and temperate living on the part of the participants, hosts or guests, officials and spectators. It stoops to no petty technicalities to twist or avoid the rules or to take an unfair advantage of opponents.

It implies a recognition of the marked influence of athletics in developing organic vigor, physical fitness, intellectual efficiency, moral qualities and social habits. It seeks to increase their value by exalting the standards of all sports.

It is opposed to all practices whic?h are harmful to individuals or upon amateur athletics in general, such ?ls, playing for money or gain of any kind, betting, selling prizes, proselyting, overspecializing of “star performers” to the exclusion of the “rank and file,” etc.

It recognizes the need for wise organization and supervision of athletics and co-operates in making these efficient.

AMATEUR DECLARATION.

I have read the definition of an Amateur Athlete and declare myself as such. I have also read the “Spirit of Amateurism” and am in hearty sympathy with it and hereby pledge myself to its support.

Date............... ..	Signed............................

Certified by....................

Position........................ Organization...................

Respectfully submitted,

John Brown, Jr., M.D., Chairman R. Tait McKenzie, M.D.

William H. Ball, M.P.E.

A. E. Metzdorf, M.P.E.

To Members of the National Federated Committee of the Athletic Research Society:

At the meeting of the National Federated Committee of the Athletic Research Society held in December 1912, a committee was appointed to work out a plan for district federations throughout the country, the function of which should be to bring together into a co-operating organization, representatives of educational, social, religious, and other agencies which have to do with the promotion of play activities of men and boys, and have a natural relationship in a given community or district. These local district federations would work out suitable plans of athletic administration in harmony with the fundamental principles of the amateur platform and amateur definition of the Athletic Research Society.

The committee believes that for the present it should encourage

Digitized by LiOOQle
— 342 —

the organization of such federations and promote them where leadership is resident.

. We recommend the adoption of this report of which the suggested plan of organization of local federations is a part. We call your attention also to the report of the committee on “The Definition of an Amateur/' Furthermore, we recommend that these two reports be published.

We desire your careful study of these reports and your definite suggestions at an early date.

Respectfully,

George J. Fisher, M.D., Chairman Joseph E. Raycroft, M.D.

Lee F. Hanmer

Committee.

A DETAILED PLAN FOR THE ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF DISTRICT ATHLETIC FEDERATIONS.

The following plan strongly recommended by the committee, has two marked characteristics:—

1.	It aims to secure for the competitive games and play of the youth of the country the high standard of sportsmanship which is expressed in the following extracts from the report of the special committee on “The Definition of an Amateur Athlete.”

“An amateur athlete is one who participates in competitive physical sports only for the direct pleasure of the game.

“The Spirit of Amateurism carries with it all that is included in the definition of an amateur athlete and much more.

“The Spirit of Amateurism stands for a high sense of honor, honesty, fair play, courtesy and temperate living on the part of participants,—hosts or guests—officials and spectators. It stoops to no petty technicalities to twist or avoid the rules or to take an unfair advantage of opponents.

“It implies a recognition of the marked influence of athletics in developing organic vigor, physical fitness, intellectual efficiency, moral qualities and social habits. It seeks to increase their value by exalting the standards of all sports.

“It is opposed to all practices which are harmful to individuals or upon amateur athletics in general, such as; playing for money or gain of any kind’, betting, selling prizes, proselyting, over-specialization or “star performers” to the exclusion of the “rank and file,” etc.

“It recognizes the need for wise organization and supervision of athletics and co-operates in making these efficient.”

2.	It aims to promote the widest possible participation in amateur competition which shall be graded so as to meet the needs and capacities of all ages.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 343 —

The following definitions of terms used in this constitution will prevent misunderstanding of the text:—

Individual—A person registered in an organization.

Organization—A single educational institution: Y. M. C. A., playground, etc.—a unit.

Group or member—Two or more organizations of same kind in a given section of the country.

Federation—Two or more groups joined in a federation, each represented by two delegates. A Federation in its simplest form might consist merely of two organizations.

SUGGESTION FOR CONSTITUTION.

Article I. Name.

This body shall be known as The Amateur Athletic Federation

of........................................

Article II. Objects.

1.	To unite for the purpose of conducting athletic competitions, in the spirit of the amateur definition, groups of organizations of a permanent character having to do with amateur athletics.

2.	To place athletic competition upon a physiological basis, i.

e., to arrange competitions among groups that vary in age, weight, etc., as well as among the organizations constituting the groups united in the federation.

3.	To unify methods, rules, regulations, and standards wherever possible and consistent with efficiency.

4.	To place the competitive play activities within the reach of everyone.

5.	To give moral support to the various groups in the federation in the administration of rules, and to assist them to attain their ideals and to maintain standards.

Article III. Membership.

1.	Membership in the federation may consist of groups composed of:—

(a)	Education institutions, i. e., universities, colleges, and high schools, (b) Turners, (c) Young Men’s Christian Associations, (d) Playgrounds, (e) Churches, i. e., Sunday Schools, Bible Classes, etc. (f) And such other groups or organizations as may be elected to membership.

Note. It should be noted that membership is by groups of organizations and not bv individuals. In localities where there is only one organization of each kind a federation may be formed among them.

2.	Each member—whether group of organizations or single organization as provided above—in the federation shall be represented by two delegates, who shall collectively have one vote.

3.	Such delegates shall be appointed annually by each group member in the federation.

Digitized by Google
— 344 —

Article IV. Government.

1.	For the direction #and control of the federation the following officers shall be elected annually:

(a)	President. (b) Vice-President. (c) Secretary, (d) Treasurer.

2.	Additional officers may be appointed when deemed advisable.

Article V. Amendments.

1.	Amendments must be sent in writing to the secretary at any regular or special meeting.

2.	The secretary shall inform all members at least three days before action is taken of the nature of the amendment.

3.	No amendments to this constitution shall be adopted, except on two-thirds vote of the members voting and present at the meeting.

Article VI. Quorum.

Representatives of a majority of the group members in the federation shall constitute a quorum at any meeting.

!	SUGGESTIONS	FOR	BY-LAWS.

There should be an executive committee composed of the officers of the federation and one representative elected from each of the groups, in the federation, not already represented by one of the officers.

2.	The duties of the executive committee should be:

(a)	To pass upon applications for membership in the federation.

(b)	To receive and act upon all questions involving inter-group competitions among the members of the federation.

(c)	To pass upon the amateur status of individual members of the organizations in the federation, but only upon request of members of the federation.

(d)	To pass upon the amateur status of the organizations in the federation.

(e)	To explain, define and interpret any provision of the constitution or any by-laws or rule.

Note. According to this section a federation deals with groups and not with individuals, except at the request of the groups.

3.	The federation should prescrilie rules for the admission of members.

4.	The following are suggestions for rules governing the competitions :

(a)	Each group in the federation must have registration of some kind, which shall vouch for the amateur standing and determine the eligibility of its members.

(b)	The groups that are members of the federation shall have the privilege of competing with each other in any form of athletics

Digitized by Google
— 345 —

conducted by said members. The athletes representing such members, must, however, be registered with and in good standing in their respective group.

(c)	Where possible a list of eligible competitors should be filed with the federation. In any case a list of the eligible competitors for any particular contest signed by a responsible individual connected with each group represented by the competitors must be presented at each contest.

(d)	No group in the federation shall place upon its eligibility list any athlete who has during the period of his registration competed for another group unless that group has disbanded or upon the written agreement of the two groups involved.

(e)	The units in the federation should confine their competition within the membership of the federation, except by special permission of the executive committee.

5* Suggestions for government within the groups constituting the federation.

(a)	Each group a member of the federation has the right to adopt for the promotion of its own interests, a constitution and bylaws provided they contain nothing that is contrary to the aims and spirit of amateur athletics.

(b) Each group in the federation shall regulate and conduct its own affairs, suspend and expel its members, and reinstate its members, except those who have been penalized for professionalism.

(c)	Power to reinstate after suspension or expulsion for professionalism shall be vested in the executive committee only.

(d)	Each group in the federation shall be responsible for the amateur standing and conduct o‘f its athletes.

Note. This section provides for individuality by permitting each group to put into its own constitution and by-laws such provisions as meet best the needs and aims of that particular group so long as these do not violate fundamentals as formulated in the “Definition of an Amateur.,, Furthermore, it makes each organization responsible for its own athletic life and activities, uses the machinery already in existence, and helps to make that machinery more more effective.

6.	Suggestions for rules governing the suspension of individuals or groups in the federation:

(a)	Any penalty imposed by any group in the federation upon its members, shall be honored by every member of the federation.

(b)	Any violation of the constitution or by-laws of the federation or a decision of the executive committee by any member of the federation shall render such member liable to suspension by the executive committee until the next meeting of the federation and to expulsion by two-thirds vote of all the members voting at such meeting.

Digitized by L.ooQle
— 346 —

Note. Provision (a) of this section is the keystone to every successful federation scheme. Without this provision no successful federation is possible.

7.	Each federation should make rules concerning fees, meetings, order of business, etc.

8.	Objects to be accomplished by a federation:

(a)	Unite on a common basis of amateurism and fair play, the various groups or organizations in the community.

(b)	Make the existing machinery more efficient by unifying rules and methods of effort among the members of the federation.

(c)	Unite for the promotion of the best things in athletics, all organizations that in any way contribute either to the physical, moral, or mental life of men and boys.

(d)	Discourage “pot hunting” by unattached athletes, and encourage all who wish to compete on an amateur basis to become affiliated with some group in the federation.

(e)	Regulate the amount of competition any particular athlete (especially the growing boy) may undertake and place the competitive activities upon a sane and physiological basis by various methods of grading.

THE EFFICIENCY OF THE EYE UNDER DIFFERENT SYSTEMS OF LIGHTING.

By C. E. FERREE, Ph. D., Director Psychological Laboratory, Bryn Mawr College.

(Conclusion.)

It is not our purpose, however, to contend that distribution is the only factor of importance in the illumination of a room. We have chosen to begin our work with types based on distribution only because it has seemed to us, both from our own work and from a survey of the work done by others, that distribution or diffuseness of light is the most important factor we have yet to deal with in our search for the conditions that give minimum loss of efficiency and maximum comfort in seeing. The quality of light and its intensity at the source are already pretty well taken care of, apparently better taken care of, at least in general practice relative to their importance to the eye, than is distribution. A systematic study of factors, however, can not stop with an investigation of the effect of distribution alone. The intensity and quality of light must also be taken into account. For example, one of the most persistent questions asked by the illuminating engineer is, “How much light should be used *

* Read at the International Congress on School Hygiene, Buffalo, N. Y.. August, 1913.

Digitized by
— 347 —

with a given lighting system to give the best results for seeing?” We have undertaken, therefore, to determine the most favorable range of intensity for the four types of distribution mentioned above. Charts have been constructed showing the effect on the efficiency of the eye, of three or four hours of work under different intensities of light for the direct and semi-indirect systems; and rough comparisons have been made for the indirect system and for daylight. Detailed tests will be made for these latter two systems early next year. Our results show, in general, that a very wide range of intensity is permissible for daylight and the indirect system. For the semi-indirect system the eye falls off heavily in efficiency for all intensities with the exception of a narrow range on either side of 1.7 foot-candles, measured at the level of the eye at the point of work. Thus it seems that distribution is fundamental. That is, if the light is well distributed and diffuse as it is in case of daylight and the indirect systems of artificial lighting, the ability of the eye to hold its efficiency is, within limits, independent of intensity. In short, the retina is itself highly accommodative or adaptive to intensity, and if the light is properly distributed in the field of vision, the conditions are not present which cause strain and consequent loss of efficiency in the adjustment of the eye.

Details of the conditions of installation and of the methods of working can not be given here. It will be sufficient to state that the work was done in the same room, with the same fixtures and in general with the same conditions of installation and methods of working as were used in the tests for distribution. Nor can a full statement of results be made. Time will be taken, however, for a more detailed examination of the results obtained for the direct and semi-indirect systems. For the semi-indirect systems our test showed that the intensity most favorable to the eye was secured when the photometric reading with the receiving surface of the photometer in the horizontal plane showed 1.696 foot-candles of light at point of work, 1.123 foot-candles in the 450 position, and .404 foot-candles in the vertical position. At this intensity of illumination the semi-indirect system, so far as its effect on the eve’s loss of efficiency is concerned, compares very well with the indirect system at such ranges of intensity as we have employed. At intensities appreciablv higher than this most favorable value, or lower, the loss of efficiency is very great. At the intensity commonly recommended in lighting practice, the semi-indirect system is almost, if not quite, as damaging to the eye as the direct system. The intensitv recommended by the Illuminating Enginering Society, for example, in its primer issued in 1912 ranges from 2-3 to 7-10 foot-candles depending on the kind of work. Five foot-candles is taken as a medium value. This medium value, it will be noted, is over four times the amount we have found to give the least loss of efficiency for the type and in-

Digitized by Google
— 348 —

stallation of semi-indirect system we have used. The intensity we have found to give the least loss of efficiency for this type of lighting does not, however, give maximum acuity of vision as determined by the momentary judgment. At an intensity that does give maximum acuity for the momentary judgment the eye runs down rapidly in efficiency. That is, in this type of lighting, one or the other of these features must be sacrificed. High acuity and little loss of efficiency can not be had at the same intensity. This can be had only under the indirect system or under daylight. However, the amount of light we find to give the least loss of efficiency seems to be sufficient for most of the work ordinarily done in the home or office. It is not enough, though, for drafting or work requiring great clearness of detail.

In case of the direct system, we were able to improve the conditions, so far as loss of efficiency is concerned, by reducing the intensity; but the system never proved so favorable in this regard as even the semi-indirect system. In the tests made under the direct system care was taken to have the fixtures exactly in the same position in the room in every case as they were for the semi-indirect system. The most favorable intensity was secured bv an installation that gave 1.003 foot-candles in the horizontal; .789 in the 45° position; and .337 in the vertical. At this intensity, however, the loss in the efficiency of the eye for three hours of work was almost four and one-half times as great as for a wide range of intensities for either the indirect system or daylight.

The effect of variations of intensity for these two systems of lighting will be shown also by means of a set of charts representing the loss of efficiency as the result of a period of work. Three hours was selected as the period of work in each of these cases. Very briefly stated, the procedure was as follows. The most favorable intensity was determined and variations were made on either side of this intensity until it was certain that the characteristic effect of increase and decrease of illumination was obtained. In all cases clear tungsten lamps were used. Chart III shows the loss typical for the semi-indirect system. Seven variations of intensity were used. Charts IV and V show the results for the direct system. The fixtures for our direct system were constructed to hold two lamps each, or sixteen in all. By using sixteen lamps, however, we could not get as great a reduction of intensity as was desired. Two series of experiments were run, therefore, one for a total of eight lamps, the other for sixteen. Chart IV shows the results for the eight lamp system, and Chart V for the sixteen lamp system. The most favorable intensity, it will be noted, was secured with the eight lamp system with a total wattage of 200, 40 less than the smallest total of wattage that could have been secured with the 16 lamp system.

Digitized by C.ooQle
CHART III.

INTENSITY SERIES.

Lighting System : Semi-indirect (8 Units). Watts. Volts.	Foot-candles.

		Horizontal	. 45°	Vertical.
A=200	110	1.285	.951	.369
B=200	113	1.398	1.048	.391
C=320	110	1.696	1.123	.404
D=320	113	1.789	1.2	.46
E=480	110	3 01	2.066	.814
F=800	110	4.42	3.025	1.319
X=760	110	3.24	2.1	.865

Digitized by Google
CHART IV. INTENSITY SERIES. Lighting System : Direct (8 lamps). Watts. Volts.	Foot-candles.

		Horizontal.	45°	Vertical.
A=120	no	.409	.313	.145
B=200	110	1.003	.769	.337
C=320	110	1.245	.068	.386
D=480	110	2.06	1.424	.682

Digitized by ^ooQle
CHART V.

INTENSITY SERIES. Lighting System : Direct (16 lamps). Watts. Volts.	Foot-candles.

		Horizontal	. 45°	Vertical.
A=240	110	.709	.561	.193
B=365	110	1.359	1.099	.395
C=400	110	1.517	1.245	.557
X=886	110	2.845	2.0	.867

A

B

C

X

0 12

																													
																													
																													
																													
																													
																													
																													
				X,																									
					S																								
				\																									
					's	v	k	k																					
						\	v	N	k	s																			
							S	V																					
									\			k	N,																
										\			k	k															
											\		X		\														
												\				w	N												
													\			s	k		s										
														\			V			S									
															\				V	S	N	K							
																\				N	V3	s.	k						
																	\				~N,	A	S	s					
																		\						k	N	N			
																			\					s	s	\	1		
																				\						V	is	\	s
																					N						is	s	X
																						\						s	
																							s						
																								\	.				
																									\	Nj			
																										VJ			
																											\	s	\
																													
																													
																													
																													
																													-
																													
																													
																													

Digitized by
— 352 —

The effect of quality of light on the eye has been the subject of much discussion and of much misunderstanding. There seems to be a feeling even among lighting engineers and ophthalmologists that colored light gives better results for seeing that white light. Some, for example, hold that the kerosene flame furnishes the ideal source of light and that its virtues are due largely to the yellow quality of the light it gives off. While the writer has not as yet begun a systematic study of the effect of quality of light, and while he is, therefore, not as yet willing to commit himself on this point, he will say that when intensity and distribution are equalized, an installation of clear carbon lamps, which gives a light comparatively rich in yellow and red, causes the eye to fall off more in efficiency as the result of 3 to 4 hours of work than an installation of clear tungsten lamps, the light from which is more nearly white. In short, the question whether or not white or colored light is better for the eye can not be answered until definite tests are made of this point alone under conditions in which all other factors are rendered constant. The effects of the kerosene flame, for example, as compared with other sources of illumination, must be tested under a system of installation that gives the same intensity at the source and, as nearly as possible, the same distribution in the field of vision as is given by other illuminants. This has not been done at all. Our judgment of the comparative merits of the color quality of the light given by it have been based on the roughest kinds of impression, obtained under conditions of installation in which there has been no attempt at control of the other factors that influence the effect of light on the eye. The work that has been done up to this time on the relation of quality of light to seeing has been confined to visual acuity as determined by the momentary judgment, and even this work which alone can give no safe grounds at all for drawing general conclusions as to the effect of light on the welfare of the eye, shows, whenever the comparison has been made, that clear white light gives a greater acuity of seeing than lights of any of the colors. If, as has been maintained by some on the grounds of their working experience, the kerosene flame is easier on the eye than the more modern sources of illumination, the writer would be inclined, more especially in view of his results on the effect of differences in intensity on the efficiency of the eye, to ascribe the benefit, whatever there may be, to the low intrinsic brilliancy of the kerosene flame. For it may safely be said that for the kind of distribution we are getting from the large majority of our lighting systems, unquestionably, too much light is being used for the welfare and comfort of the eye. Added to this is the effect of the position of the light in relation to the eye. The kerosene lamp may be placed at the back or side of the person using it and, if in the field of vision, it is usually at or near the level of the eye. In the two former
— 353 —

^cnses indirect lighting is given, and in the latter case the lamp occupies the most favorable position possible for direct lighting. That* is, if the source of light is to be in the field of vision at all, it should be as nearly as possible at the level of the eye. This is because of the greater tendency of a light source to produce discomfort and loss of efficiency when its image falls on the upper and lower halves • of the retina than when it falls in the horizontal meridian. These facts have been clearly brought out in our work on the effect of position of light in the field of vision.

In addition to studying the conditions that give us maximum efficiency, it is important to determine the lighting conditions and 'eve factors that cause discomfort. In fact, *it might almost be said that our problem in lighting at present is not so much how to see T*etter as it is how to see with more comfort and with less damage to the general health on account of eye strain. Any comparative study of the conditions producing discomfort necessitates a method •of estimating discomfort. As stated earlier in the paper, our method -of estimating discomfort is entirely distinct and separate from our method of studying efficiency. Time can not be taken here to go into details of either the method or of the result of this study. It will be sufficient to say that the effect of distribution of light in the field of vision, intensity, and quality are also being studied in their relation to the comfort as well as the efficiency of the eye.

In conclusion, the writer wishes to point out that no one of the factors he has mentioned can safely be omitted in the search for the most favorable conditions of lighting. Nor can one be investigated and a correlation between it and the others be taken for granted. We have been content, heretofore, to base our conclusions with Tegard to the relation of a lighting system to seeing on the conventional visual acuity test. While this test may tell us something about the general level or scale of efficiency of the fresh eye, it can tell us nothing of loss of efficiency because the muscles of the eye, although they may have fallen off enormously in efficiency, can under the spur of the will be whipped up to their normal power long enough to make the judgment required by the test. Moreover, it tells us nothing of the conditions that produce discomfort. In short, the general level or scale of efficiency of the fresh eye, loss of efficiency as the result of work, and the tendency to produce discomfort constitute three separably determinable moments, no one of which should be neglected in installing a lighting system.

NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS.

We kindly request our subscribers when reporting changes of address to give both the old and new one.
— 354 —

DEDICATION OF THE STADIUM IN BERLIN AND THE KAISER REGATTA.

Translated by C. L. SCHRADER.

The 25th anniversary of the reign of the German emperor was fittingly initiated by the dedication of the stadium, the home of the next Olympic games. It was homage to gymnastics and sport before the highest representatives of the land. It might well be termed a review of the many organizations which center their attention upon the bodily welfare of youth. The dedication of the stadium was an occasion of historical significance. With the many varied exercises it opened officially the stadium, it gave evidence of the keen interest the emperor has for the physical welfare of the youth, it gave to the public a panoramic picture of the many sides of games, turnen and sport, it made possible the homage of 30,00a German men, women, boys and girls from every state of the wide land and it proved that the national committee succeeded to unite all German organizations for bodily training to harmonious work.

The German stadium surpasses in size as well as in equipment all previous similar undertakings. It is double as large as the stadium in Athens. The surface in the oval is 254 M. x 82 M. The seating capacity is 30,000. On the northern side is the swimming basin 120 M. in length. Neither the London nor the Stockholm stadiums are as large nor as complete as this newest creation. Especially remarkable is the utilization of the natural conditions of the ground. The builder, March, who recently died, excavated the inside of the Grunewald race course and constructed the arena and the seats so that they are beneath the level of the Grunewald.

In order that one may gain a conception of the stadium dedication, it will be well to glance over the delegations present and the membership they represented:

Organization	Total Membership	Participating1  Delegates
Deutsche Turnerschaft			1,250,000	10,000
Deutsche Lawn Tennis Spieler		22,000	350*
Deutsche Swimmers			58,000	8CX>
Deutsche Heavy Athletics		6,000	IOO
Deutsche Wheelmen		50,000	2,OCO
Deutsche Football		162,000	4,000
Deutsche Light Athletics		131,000	3,000
Deutsche Skating		20,000	IOO
Deutsche Academic Organization			1,000
Junior Organizations, Boy Scouts, etc.	.	9,000

When all had passed the review boxes in which the emperor and other dignitaries were seated, the activities began. Two companies of infantry in heavy marching order showed applied gvmnastics in
— 355 —

rank formation. They took obstacles, jumped into depths of 2.50 M., climbed a wall 2 M. high, then over a wall 4 M in height and finally over hurdles 1 M. high. It was a wonderful obstacle race in perfect execution. Then followed 800 young women with clubswinging, apparatus work and games. The academic gymnastic clubs showed exercises on parallel bars and played a game of hurl ball. At the conclusion of this 2,000 junior members (under 18) rushed on the field and ran exhibition races. Then followed in succession bicycle races, relay races and heavy athletics. Of fascinating beauty were the wonderful dives by the swimmers. The conclusion was a descriptive picture of German gymnastics. 700 men and women executed free exercises, 100 sections of eight each exhibited on apparatus, 400 men and boys played German games and 100 men of the royal physical training school executed dumb-bell exercises with unusual excellence. The emperor remained throughout the entire performance and was loud in his praises. On the afternoon of the same day the regatta took place, which was ushered in by a parade of 600 boats (4 oared). This mass demonstration gave a vivid picture of the remarkable development of rowing, the chief promoter of which is the German emperor. In 1888 there was rowing in 8 schools, in 1913 in 300 schools; in 1888 there were 3,600 who rowed, in 1913 50,000. What a remarkable progress these figures represent! May these festive days mark the beginning for a still wider expansion of body care and body training for the welfare of the entire people as well as the individual.

DIE DEUTSCHE TURNERSCHAFT UND DER DEUTSCHE

GEDANKE.

Leipzig has just enacted a folk festival which in beauty, popular conception and patriotic fervor stands unparallelled in history. That this “Turnfest” with its 80,000 participants would surpass alf its prerunners was generally expected, also that the municipality would spare no efforts in the festive preparation for its guest, and' that the local organizations would give creditable account of themselves in the competitions. But our expectations were greatly surpassed. Everywhere was the evidence that those in charge had been embued with the fact of being entrusted with an important patriotic-task, of which they acquitted themselves in a truly masterly way.

* Dr. Siebert spent a year in this country as exchange professor at Yale and was also commissioned to report to Germany on the conditions of physical education and playgrounds in this country.

AN IMPRESSION OF THE LEIPZIG TURNFEST.

By ALBERT SIEBERT,* Berlin. Translated by CAR>L L. SCHRADER.

Digitized by
— 356 —

They succeeded in unrolling before our eyes a tremendous picture of the constructive national activity of the Deutsche Turnerschaft. When I journeyed toward Leipzig, I still had in my mind the deep impression which the celebration of the dedicatory exercises of the Berlin stadium made upon me. I feel it my duty to say that the Leipzig festival offered still more in beauty and in its mighty mass activities. In comparison with the London Olympic games, the big American athletic festivals and the former German festivals, the Leipzig festival was without doubt the greatest of them all. The

40.000	men in parade, the 17,000 in mass exercises before an audience of more than 100,000, all of this impressed one with the grandeur and significance of the occasion.

Here a whole nation was engaged in joyful activity, observing excellent demeanor and under free willed subordination. We all were under the spell of a national festival halo. To every lover of mankind it must be a delight to witness, how more than a million men are actively engaged in this huge organization, the Deutsche Turnerschaft, in a conscious endeavor to strengthen themselves in national thought and to keep themselves in good physical condition. The unity of an empire does not depend merely upon the mechanical organization, not only upon the extent of discipline, or the exactness of an army, but it depends as much upon the conscious, unfaltering will of that nation to retain such unity and power even under adverse conditions.

A great factor in the education of this popular unity and feeling of national unity is the Deutsche Turnerschaft, and was also this great festival. The climax of the festival was the mass demonstration of free exercises. The festival grounds covered an area of

470.000	square met. 79,000 of which were enclosed by bleachers. More than 100,000 spectators witnessed these mass exercises and were jubilant in the applause. In the background the men assembled “behind a group of flags, 400 in number, and each flag more than fifty years old. Now an overwhelming spectacle unfolds itself before the multitude of people. To the sound of music this forest of flags, unfurled by the wind, begins to move. The eyes of the spectators have hardly been satisfied, when row after row separates itself from this huge mass of white attired gymnasts and marches to the front. Wave-like the rows rolled on and on. It was in a double sense a picture of the Turnerschaft. These rows, each containing one hundred men, gave evidence of the discipline and self-composure developed by gymnastics. The individual groups, in which four each marched with their arms chain-locked, suggested the prevalent comradship and goodfellowship. After the ranks had been properly dressed, they opened order in ever so many rays over the entire field. The exercises were shown with faultless precision. Any artist would have been delighted with these beautiful effects of
— 357 —

color and form, of the beauty of bodies in harmonic motion. An. outburst of spontaneous enthusiasm followed this great spectacle, which reached the climax when the masses withdrew from the field singing the national hymn.

While this picture unfolded itself before a multitude of people,, it was the privilege of only few to attend the breakfast of the executive committee of the Tumerschaft. This occasion, like the others,, manifested the immensity and national significance of the organization. More than that, it showed conclusively that “Turnen” has become a cultural power, which the German people have given to the world. All the various representatives from near and far, from the home organization to S. W. Africa expressed in some way the wonderful innate power to unify this huge organization. Thus this festival portrayed the labor, the thought and significance of the Deutsche Turnerschaft, it showed what gave the organization its strength and also what makes the organization valuable to the nation ; the patriotic consciousness of the German thought.

PLAYGROUNDS AND GYMNASIUMS.

By ALEXANDER A. HARWICH, Board of Education, Reading, Pa.

THE PLAYGROUND.

By ELMER L. SCOTT, Dallas, Texas.

In every neighborhood there is the timid girl and the diffident boy, both of whom are slow to seek companionship and fear rebuff. There is a chance that each one of these has some talent, and, strange as it may sound, very frequently out of timidity has come leadership just as quickly as the shell of diffidence has been removed, and this is more likely to happen on the playground in recreation than in any other way.

Not only is the timid youth accustomed by his work on the playgrounds to open association, but this very spirit of physical activity creates for him a broader sympathy with the success of other youths with whom he .might never be brought in contact otherwise, or even if brought in contact might have no recognition himself. The social standing of the youth is better, his appreciation of other people is increased, and the understanding that other people have of him is expanded, and all are benefitted by knowing each other better.

The boy or girl in a neighborhood who grows up with the theory and practice of every fellow for himself and without the principle of giving aid and receivin''* help is losing one of the underiving principles of neighborhood unity. The school playground irr the organization of games gives early lessons in commercial organization and in business unity. I zv words, it teaches team workr

Digitized by C.OOQLe
— 358 —

each individual playing his part in order that the entire team may win its game.

Especially is it true with those who are less fortunate in home surroundings where there is a deadly monotony of restricted living which is bound to affect the social qualities of the youth, but in a degree is going to have an effect on the citizenship of the same youth when he grows up. His understandings of things are liable to be stunted. His ignorance of the fact that opportunity is constantly outside of each one's door is liable to continue. His narrow viewpoint of life loses for him the desire for achievement which is necessary in order to add hopefulness to those who are fighting the battle of life. Anything sensible and decent that will break into this deadly monotony and take what thoughts the youth has out of the slough of despond and put them for a while each day into a busy, rapid-flowing stream of activity is a worthy means to a worthy end, and this is a part employed by the school playgrounds.

Without visible direction and the positive inculcation of what is right and what is wrong, there is a natural tendency with the boy and the girl to figure that if there is an end to be attained it doesn't make so much difference whether the means adopted are honest or not, so long as the end is attained. The school playground, under wise direction, and that is the only way in which we can discuss such a recreation center, becomes a training school for honest effort. In other words, the properly directed school playground derides dishonesty, makes the dishonest player a pariah. In the beginning, perhaps, the boy who is inclined to cheat in play may avoid cheating because of shame, but ultimately he learns the principle, deep-seated, that the only way to win that which has honor to it is to win honestly, and the liar and the cheat and the sneak is absolutely unworthy and beneath contempt.

The creation of the spirit of manliness in the boy and the spirit of true womanhood in the girl are intangible benefits, unnoticec^ perhaps, by the nondiscerning, but as sure of growth as the rising of the sun in the heavens.

Perhaps the most wonderful effect of the school playground is that which is felt in the very fiber of the youth who attend these playgrounds with regularity, and that is the influence of beautiful character and sterling qualities of the playground directors and those with whom thev come in contact. It is a strange truth, so little understood by the general run of nondiscerning ones, but a wonderful truth, nevertheless, namelv, that the powerful sermons of unknown preachers have little effect in reaching beneath the sur-* face of the youth. The daily close personal contact with those who live wise and kindly lives, whose strength of character is evidenced daily, and who quietly and without ostentation are shedding abroad
— 359 —

an influence of a worthy life like the softening rays of an August moon, dealing so kindly with an unattractive landscape—this very intimacy is deep, far-reaching and everlasting in its effects. Were I to undertake to name the one best thing of all that has been accomplished during the summer of 1913 with the hundreds of young boys and girls who have attended with reasonable regularity the ■school playgrounds promoted by the Dallas Playgrounds Association I would say that it is the beautiful influence of the splendid men and -women who have so devotedly lived with these boys and girls and ishown them new viewpoints of life and taught them new spiritual truths in living pictures of truth and honor and healthy happiness.

SIDE BALL.

By CAR,L O. HIERHOLZER, Manual Training High School, Brooklyn, N. Y.

The following game is not offered as something new in the way of games, but is submitted as being an excellent game adapted to large numbers. It has stood the test of time (the writer learned it as a boy in the classes of Mr. Richard Pertuch of the Philadelphia Turngemeinde) and it has been found successful in at least two gymnasiums in the high schools of Greater New York. A number of variations are possible and sometimes necessary, depending on the age of the pupils. For instance, a neutral zone from 6 to 10 feet wide in front of each line is necessary for very large boys, otherwise they will rush the ball through the opposing line instead of kicking it.

Divide the class into two sides and arrange them according to height on two lines drawn across the gymnasium floor from 30 to 60 feet apart, depending on the kicking ability of the pupils. The game is played in this manner: the two shortest (or tallest) pupils from each line come to the centre of the playing field where the ball js put in play. The idea is to kick the ball that it passes between the legs of the players of the opposing line. This counts one point. However, should the ball be kicked over the heads of the opposing line, a point is awarded to that side over whose head the ball was kicked. Touching the ball with the hands or arms is a foul and gives a point to the opponents.

When the ball is within kicking distance of the line it may be kicked by players in the line, but stepping out of line is a foul and gives a point to the opponents.

When a point is scored in any manner, the players in the field go to the end of their line and the next two players from each side take their places in the field and play until a point is again scored. The game is over when every player has had a turn in the field. Should the score be a tie, play is resumed until an additional point

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— 360 —

is won. The line must adjust itself each time two new players step out. For small classes the line-up is as in Fig. I. For large classes the lines may be extended half way along each side of the gymnasium in the direction of the opponents' line as in Fig. II.

+		1  +
+		+
+		+
+		+
+	+ +	+
	o	
+	+ +	+
+		+
+		+
+		+
+		+

FIG. I.



FIG. II.

When the pupils have learned the game the following may be added. Station a tall player from each side behind the line of the opponents. If he can catch the ball on the fly each time it is kicked over the heads of the line behind which he is standing he saves a point for his side.

In Newark, N. J., more than one thousand playground children participated in the Hallowe’en celebration. On each of the playgrounds prizes were awarded to the ones who wore the prettiest most comical and most original costumes. Commissioner Bernard

Digitized by

Google
— 361 —

J. Owens and Milton Lowy and Secretary J. Leonard Mason took part in the exercises.

This seems to us an excellent plan for keeping the children off the streets on a night when rowdyism is too often unchecked.

—The Department of Superintendence, Physical Training Division, of the Philadelphia public schools have gotten out their twelfth “Wanderlust” announcement for Saturday afternoon walks -around Philadelphia. There are nineteen walks scheduled from Nov. ist to Feb. 28, 1914.

—These walks, the announcement states, are arranged for the -general public. There are no fees, dues, nor other requirements.' Everyone is welcome, on one walk or all. All that is necessary is "to be at the starting place at the time appointed. The only cost is that of carfare. The walks are all about five miles, and often in-'dude some points of interest, although no special eTort is made by the leaders toward that aim. No fast walking is done, as new people come each week, and might not be able to keep up. The whole :aim of the walks is to get people out into the open, to learn how even -a simple exercise like walking can mean strength and health for those who seek it, and pleasure for all. Interested readers should -send for a copy of this announcement.

WALK.

Nearly everyone with any money or who has any hope of getting some, dreams of what that money will brin^ back in the shape of dividends. But in the case of monev, in many, many instances it never comes around. Here's something that does come around, though, and stay by you if you will it, and that is Health. So get Health—Walk!

Walk.

One of the greatest friends of Health in this world is Walking. It warms the Blood and shakes up your whole Body machinery.

Walk.

Walking not only improves and invigorates the Body but it sweeps out and stirs to action the Brain. The best sort of “Vacation” is the Walking vacation, in the morning or at the close of work. There is a freedom and independence about Walking that comes over the Walker that is insoiring. By breathing in the fresh „ air and meditating upon the wonders and glories of Nature, the little worries and annoyances of life look infinitesimal indeed.

Walk.

But as you start for your Walk, leave every unpleasant thought behind. Start your walk in smiles and under the halo of cheer.

Walk.

The iate Mayor Gaynor, of New York City, once wrote: “As

Digitized by Google
— 362 —

a Judge I framed my decisions and opinions in my mind while-Walking.” While Walking, especially alone, you have not only the greatest environment in the world but there is no one to interrupt you. If they do, by sprucing up you can Walk away from them. Everyone should Walk several miles a day, especially Women, for they are more shut in than Men. And besides their delicate nerv-^ ous machinery demands it.

Walk.

Walk to work. Walk home. Walk into the country. Walk into the woods. Walk in the healing Sun. Walk regularly. Give Germs the slip.

Walk.

—The Commissioner of Public Schools of Rhode Island has issued, through the Department of Education, some circulars in regard to civic work done by children in the schools. The Cumberland Civic Guards were organized three years ago and each child takes the following pledge:	“I	promise to do all I can to promote

cleanliness, beauty and order in our town.” Civic Guards are being" formed in other school districts of the state. These organizations can do much to foster a spirit of civic pride in the young people.

—The Committee on Athletics of the Physical Directors’ Society of the Y. M. C. A. recommends that the Athletic League adopt and publish the following rules, in order that there may be more uniformity in the rules for athletic events in indoor competition.

Additions to Rule 22, Sections 6‘, 7, 8, 9 and 10, namely:—

Section 6—Standing Broad Jump.

Section 7—Three Standing Broad Jumps.

Section 8—Running Hop, Step and Jump.

Section 9—Two Standing Broad Jumps.

Section 10—Standing Hop, Step and Jump.

When the above events are conducted indoors the take-off shall be from the high edge of a regulation beat board, which shall not exceed five inches in height from the floor—said take-off to be securely fastened to the floor. The alight shall be upon a regular two-inch gymnasium mat covered with a strip of rubber carpet two feet wide and of sufficient length to extend beyond the possible jump of the best contestant—the near end of the rubber strip to be fastened to the take-off board. (Note) a most satisfactory way to fasten the take-off board to.the floor is to have four steel pins drop through holes in each corner of the board and into four sockets in the floor. The rubber strips can be fastened bv the pins used in fastening this board passing through the rubber carpet.

Rule 22, Section 4. Running Broad Jump. When this event is conducted indoors the same take-off shall be used as for the Standing Broad Jump.

Digitized by C.ooQle
— 363 —

A JAPANESE FAN DANCE.

By ANNABEL, BRADSTREET, Denison University. Granville, O.

Song:—“A Japanese Maiden”—Alice Riley and Jessie Gaynoiv Publ., Clayton F. Summy Co., 220 Wabash Ave., Chicago.

Formation :—Double line, in couples.

Soloist:—Stands facing dancers and enacts the dance in pantomime as she sings, while the dance is proceeding.

, For 16 couples.

Costume:—Japanese kimonas, two red fans and pink paper chrysanthemums in hair.

Position:—Fans at chest, elbows shoulder high.

INTRODUCTION.

Couples enter with dainty running steps, fans crossed in front,, body inclined forward; led by soloist; play introduction till ready; chord for “open order”; soloist faces dancers.

PART I (1ST VERSE)

Fig. I a Arms “reach,” inside toe point forward..............  1

b Arms drawn to “intermediate” (outside arms up, inside arms down), body inclined inward, inside foot

point diagonally forward............................ 1

c	Repeat a........................................     1

d	Position ..........................................  I

Repeat, beginning outside.........................   4

Repeat, beginning inside...........................  4

Repeat, beginning outside.....................   .___4	•

16

Fig. II Columns face each other, fans “position”; advancing forward till right elbows touch, circle right and back

into place......................................    12

Step right and courtesy......................... ...	2

Step left and courtesy.............................. 2

16

Fig. Ill Face forward.

a Arms in 5th position, bend body forward and back to

upright ........................................     4

b Arms in 5th, bend body backward and look up at

fans, back to upright............................... 4

„ c	Repeat a...........................................  4

d	Repeat b, and “position”............................ 4

16

(This should be a continuous swaying movement.)

Fig. IV a With 8 small running steps, right column advances

forward, left column moves backward. ............... 4

b Both columns take five quick jumping steps about, on place, turning to outside...........................   4

Digitized by
— 364 —

c Move back in place, right column going back, left

column forward ................................   ............	4

d Repeat b.;..........................................   4

16

Tig. V Chorus: all sing. Fans “position.”

a Columns move sideward away from partners, 8 “tango” steps............................................    4

b Bend body toward outside............................   2

Bend body toward inside...........................     2

c Columns move toward each other......................   4

d Repeat b; (end glancing at partner and hold)__________4

16

INTERLUDE.

Columns counter-march to outside and then up the center in

■partners through 32 counts of “introduction.”

PART II (2ND VERSE) . .

Tig. I a Outside fan behind head, inside arm forward and bent

upward, looking down at fan..........................   4

b Inside fan behind head, outside arm forward and bent

upward, looking down at fan............................ 4

c Repeat a.............................................   4

d Repeat b..............................................  4

16

Fig. II a Inside foot point forward, 8 quick taps, arms “intermediate” and beating time with fans-.............................  4

b Jump about on place, five jumping steps, twining inward ..................................................   4

c Repeat a, starting	outside	foot.....................   4

d Repeat b, starting	outside	foot......................  4

16

Tig. Ill Stand on knees, fans in front of eyes.

Bend body toward outside, peeping around fans and

back to position......................................  4

Bend toward inside and position.....................    4

Repeat outside, inside (rise on last two counts)....	8

16

Fig. IV and V. Same as IV and V in Part I, all singing. Pass off stage by counter-march, led by soloist. Music: “introduction.”

—Experts Formulate Plans for Care of Feeble-Minded. A -conference of experts was held October 10, at the State Institute for Feeble-Minded Women, Vineland, to formulate sane and economical plans for the care of the feeble-minded, and to interest alienists and :psychologists in their training as well as in the diagnosis of their

Digitized by
— 365 —

cases. Dr. Madelein Hallowell, superintendent of the institution,, outlined an economical, human and safe system, by the gathering by the state of all its mental defectives into large institutions conducted on the unit plan, where women and children can mingle and lead some semblance of a normal life, the men being in the same institutions in separate buildings.—Journal A. M. A.

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE.

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

—Red Cross Seals. Money plus wise enthusiasm equals efficiency in the arithmetic of social reform. This is as axiomatic as the proposition that a straight line is the shortest distance between two points. It is unfortunate that so few social movements have-been able to develop a method which will at the same time obtain money for the support of their propaganda and also produce enthusiastic campaigns in which they are engaged.

Red Cross Christmas Seals have been unique in this respect in their relation to the anti-tuberculosis movement. They have not only produced large sums of money, more than a million dollars in the last four years, but have also carried the desired information to the people. They have been the means whereby ineffective or moribund organizations have been made strong and efficient. They have been the means by which previously unorganized states have been made examples of progress. They have stimulated and at the same time financed new activities in all parts of the field. As a producer of both funds and vitality in the anti-tuberculosis campaign, the Red Cross Christmas Seal is unrivalled. Beside it “Tag Days,” formal letters of appeal, special soliciting campaigns, and all other money raising plans dwindle into insignificance. In three or four weeks the Red Cross Seal campaign reaches millions with its direct personal message.

This affords a channel through which everyone can help in the campaign whether he be millionaire or office boy.—<eJournal of the Outdoor Life”

•—Two other important meetings were held at Buffalo, N. Y.,. at the time the 4th International Congress of School Hygiene convened. We refer to the fifth annual conference of the National Probation association and the tenth annual conference on the Education of Backward, Truant, Delinquent and Dependent Children.

A round-table discussion on defective delinquents, led by Dr. Hastings H. Hart, director of the Russell Sage foundation, was held at the meeting of the two organizations.

“Thus far,” said Dr. Hart, “nearly every state which has undertaken to deal with methods of extinguishing defective delinquency-

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 366 —

“has started at the wrong end. Our institutions for the feeble minded have been built as schools for little children of school age. We have gone on the theory that, by employing teachers of special skill and training, by adopting educational methods adapted to their peculiar needs, we may develop the latent faculties of these children to a point where they will become normal members of the community, capable of self-control and self-support.

“These hopes invariably have been disappointed. These little children have grown up in the institutions, and a portion of them have been sent out into the world, but they have either returned or liave become a burden upon the community. Many drift into reformatories and penal institutions. Dr. Henry H. Goddard of New Jersey tells us that he does not believe that any truly feeble-minded child was ever cured and the most competent authorities and the most competent authorities agree with him that it is useless to try to develop the latent mentality of feeble-minded children because it •does not exist.”

Conceding this view to be the correct one, Dr. Hart said that in order to put an end to the production of defective delinquents, it will be necessary to restrict the propagation of their kind.

Judge Harvey H. Baker of the Juvenile Court of Boston, emphasized the importance of proper discrimination by judges when complaints of truancy are made. “There are still many teachers and attendance officers,” said he, “who owing to overwork or lack of training ask leave to complain of children as truants when thev really should be handled in a very different way. The most important cases are those where the truancy is really due to disordered home conditions because in many such cases the removal of the one child merelv leaves a number of .others to grow up with the same slack habits/'

Permanent custodial care of the feeble-minded by the state was advocated at. the joint meeting of the probation conference and the conference on the education of backward, truant, delinquent and dependent children by Alexander Johnson, director of the state training school at Vineland, N. J., as the means of preventing the procreation of their kind.

Mr. Johnson told what New Jersey is doing for the custodial care and industrial training of children afflicted in this way. He showed stereopticon views of the different grades of feeble-minded children and charts tracing the disease from one generation to another. He insisted that the only way that the state can grapple with this problem is to provide permanent custodial care for these, unfortunates.

In the afternoon there was an address by Frank E. Wade of Buffalo on the Importance of Children's Courts. Mr. Wade declared that this court is fundamentally a new application of old legal prin-

Digitized by
— 367 —

<iples interpreted in the light of the modern spirit of social justice. "‘Its amazing growth/' said he. “bears witness to the readiness and -eagerness with which society grasps a great ideal when accompanied by a practical and workable plan."

—A paper read by Dr. T. Wood Clark of Utica, N. Y., on “The value of discipline in the care of the sick child," at a meeting of the Medical Society of the state of New York, held at Rochester April 30, 1913, brought out the following remarks by Mr. Herbert L. Weet, Superintendent of Schools at Rochester, N. Y.

Dr. Clark made a plea for self-control, and established this plea upon the only tenable basis, namely, the welfare of the child. The 'Convenience of the physician was of incidental concern. He had made it clear that a lack of control that may reasonably be expected •of the growing child endangers the physical welfare of the child.

There would be no difference of opinion here on the proposition that among all the elements which enter into efficient training no element surpasses in importance this same self-control. If the development of this power is of concern to the physician in safeguarding the physical welfare of the child it is of equal concern to the teacher and to the parent in safeguarding both the mental and the moral welfare of the child. More and more, modern elementary education is coming to recognize the fact that training in self-control and in other similar virtues and characteristics is the real objective in education.

It is a protest which has been increasingly made by students of •education for the past dozen years. It is becoming more and more -effective. It will not be wholly effective, however, so long, as communities insist upon judging the efficiency of a school solely by the ability of its pupils to pass examinations. The present knowledge of pupils is of value. It is only one of the elements, however, that -enter into the real education of the child.

The development of this spirit of self-control in the growing ■child represents a type problem which modern elementary education is facing.

The young child is prompted in its actions very largely by its instincts. In fact, it may truly be said that its early activities are mere expressions of instinctive tendencies. It is upon the expression of these instinctive tendencies that its very growth and development depend. Among the four most important of such instinctive tendencies are play, curiosity, imitation, and what has been called the repetitive instinct. By the exercise of these the child gradually adapts itself to the environment in which it is placed. Through play, which is as natural as eating to the normal child, the child gains muscular control and that co-ordination of mind and body which is so essential to its future welfare. Through the in-

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 368 —

stinctive tendency to repeat processes he is gradually reducing to the automatic those representative acts of life. In this way his conscious powers are left free for life’s larger problems which include reason, discrimination, judgment and other similar powers. Only as all these and other instinctive tendencies are allowed to express themselves can the child grow and develop. Inhibit them, suppress them, and the very development of the child is sacrificed. On th$ other hand, there are among these instinctive tendencies those which make neither for the future welfare of the child nor the future welfare of the society in which he may be placed. Such expressions-must be suporessed and not allowed to grow through exercise. Here, then, comes the first real problem which the intelligent teacher and parent must face. It concerns the ability to discriminate,, through an actual knowledge of the child, between those tendencies-which should be strengthened and encouraged because of their wholesome nature; and those tendencies which if allowed to grow and develop, would be unfortunate both for the child and society. Here,, again, the only approach is the welfare of the child. This is by no* means an easy approach to make. There is no doubt that Thomas-Edison through his inventive genius, which must have revealed itself through a strong instinctive tendency in his early years, was a* source of serious inconvenience to his teachers and his parents. Had! the expression of that instinctive tendency during the years when it was clamoring for expression been effectively suppressed and held iir check, however, we would never have known the Edison of today. Not the convenience of the parent or the teacher but the welfare of the child is the only approach to discipline.

It is apparent, then, that true discipline at its core involves the suppression or repression of the child when it is exercising those tendencies and those characteristics which are bound to operate against its own best welfare and the welfare of the society in which it may be placed. There is no more difficult nor fundamental problem which our elementary education of today is facing than the problem outlined in this brief statement. When, therefore. Dr. Clark is making a plea for the development of self-control in the growing child, he is making a plea for that which enhances not only the physical life of the child but the mental and moral as well.

The real goal, however, is the training of the child in self-ontrol and a host of other similar virtues and characteristics. More and more we must lift into the consciousness of our teachers the importance of this goal and the opportunity which every act of the schoolroom offers for that training which constitutes the very essence of education.—From New York State Journal of Medicine.

—Tuberculosis Among Schoolteachers. Over a period of years 52.4 per cent, of the deaths among schoolteachers, between the ages
3?J

of 25	3i4 ^ere 4ue to tuberculosis, while only 25.8 per cent, qf

The deaths ,pon^ all persons in Michigan, between the ages of 25 -and 34, were due fo this disease. Among schoolteachers of all ages 27.6 per cent, of the deaths were due to tuberculosis, while among ^all persons of all ages only 9.4 per cent, were due to this disease.— Bull. Mich. State Bd. Health.

—To lead people to believe that any room can be heated healthfully for any length of time by means of flueless gas- or oil-heaters is dangerous doctrine. An efficient gas- or oil-heater with a flue ■attachment is an admirable piece of household apparatus; a flueless heater—except for the most temporary of uses, and then used with :a full knowledge of the dangers involved—is an abomination.— Journal A. M. A.

—Progress of Hygiene in the German Army. For some time courses in cooking have been held in the Prussian army, attended by officers, medical officers and non-commissioned officers. They are given in Berlin and are intended to instruct in the proper inspection of raw material and the preparing of foods. In the garrisons special windows have been constructed for giving out the food from the company kitchens by which the cleanliness in the rooms has been markedly increased. Quite generally also a set of measures has been adopted to carry out the modern principles of sanitation. For instance, a special waiting-room for the relatives of sick soldiers has been instituted in the large hospitals, and, in addition, the now quite extended provision for medical treatment of the members of families* of the subordinate officers has had the result that special rooms for the dental polyclinic treatment of members of families and especially the wives of the non-commissioned officers have been established. Furthermore, the effort has been made to provide suitable opportunities for bathing in the garrisons and at the exercise fields for the troops where these are lacking.—From a Berlin Letter to the Journ.

A.	M. A.

—Blood-Flozu in Feet. The blood-flow in the feet is smaller per unit of volume of the part than in the hand, the ratio of foot flow to hand flow per 100 cubic centimeters of the part usually lying in normal persons between 1 to 3 and 1 to 2. In the supine position, with the legs hanging down, the flow in the feet seems to be somewhat greater than in the sitting position.—Dr. G. N. Stewart, Cleveland, O., in Journ. of Experimental Medicine, New York.

—Regeneration of Axis Cylinders in Vitro. It is shown for the first time that nerve fibers grow out from pieces of cerebellum • of young cats and guinea-pigs when cultivated in coagulated plasma.
— 370 —

The same phenomenon has been observed in cultures of spinal ganglia. The nerve fibers do not anastomose and they extend into the plasma unaccompanied by structures of any kind.—Dr. R. Inbe-brigtsen, N. Y., in Journ. of Experimental Medicine.

—Sterilization of Drinking-Water on Small Scale. Dr. H. Langer states that the taste of the water is not impaired by the method he describes and has found extremely effectual in sterilizing even highly contaminated drinking-water. He uses chlorinated lime (Chlorkalk) in the proportion of 0.5 gm. to the liter, mixed with an equal amount of common salt to prevent clumping. After ten minutes the taste of the chemicals is removed by neutralizing with sodium percarbonate. The resulting effervescence lasts for about five minutes during which the lime is transformed into an insoluble compound which can then be filtered out. Thus in less than half an hour the badly contaminated water is made palatable and safe to drink. The slight salty taste left he does not regard as disagreeable.—Journ. A. M. A. from Deutsche Medizinische Wochen-schrift, Sept. 18, 1913.

—Comment on Sex Hygiene. To the Editor:—Your summary of newspaper comments on the problem of instruction in sex hygiene (Medical Economics, Ahe Journal, Oct. 18, 1913, p. 1477), shows that we are one step ahead of the former generation —we recognize generally that it is a problem. It would be well, however, for the reformer, physician or layman, to recognize several other facts. In the first place, the greatest obstacle to the proper handling of the subject lies in the home. From my experience with large numbers of boys in private schools I know that the average boy of this type has, up to the age of 14 at least, no correct idea of sexual anatomy or physiology, while the public-school boy, though usually more wise, obtains his wisdom from a dangerous source. I have known many boys to whom another boy naked is a pleasing curiosity, while but very few know how animals propagate. This ignorance is of course due to the prudish reticence of the parents,, and the curse of it is that the child of to-day is no further advanced than were the children of former generations. To say then that this question should be left to the home is to drap the matter entirely. We cannot aid from the very source which is presenting the obstacle.

It is therefore clear that it is up to the schools as the only organized medium available. But it is also plain that to make a sudden jump from the reticence of the home on all matters pertaining to sex to a direct discussion of sex hygiene in the schools would be as dangerous to the child as it would be abhorrent to the parent. If we could only stop crying reform, stop the warring between the

Digitized by Google
371

sentiment surrounding innocence and the excitement over the moral results of ignorance, and treat the question from the point of view of educational science, the matter would be simple. Give the children more natural science taught by competent teachers—botany to the youngest, biology to the older ones, and anatomy and physiology to those of io or 12. The sexual side should not be emphasized but taken as a matter of course. With this foundation the teaching of sexual questions as such would cease to be a nightmare to parents or a side-show to children. Most important of all, we might reasonably hope that from such a course of study the parents of the next generation, who are the children of to-day, will treat the whole matter rationally, will make their children feel that the truths of sex are not an awful thing of mystery and shame that will be revealed some time in the dim future, but^ like the working of the bowels, are things of great interest and importance, though they are not to be discussed at the dinner-table.

I have known boys who were fortunate enough to be brought up in homes in which they received proper instruction and explanation, and their true modesty and frank understanding of things sexual were distinctly refreshing after the prudery and morbid curiosity which are perfectly natural in the ignorant child.—W. B. H., Boston^ Journ. A. M. A.

—Child Culture the Function of Organized Medicine. Dr. Henry B. Favill, Chicago:	Any improvement in the conditions

of future generations must be accompanied by an improvement in quality. The question is, How can the human stock be improved f The control of the unrestrained breeding of defectives is immediate and urgent. This, however, is only a small part of the problem. The real question is not how to prevent the bad, but how to develop' the good. The difficulty is that our knowledge of heredity is not as yet sufficient to enable us to control conditions. The most that can be accomplished at present is the creation of a public sense of conscience and responsibility, at the same time making every effort to increase scientific knowledge regarding the factors involved ia heredity and eugenics. This is a field in which physicians must be* able to qualify as experts. As a whole, the medical profession has-not hitherto risen to the situation. Legislation cannot proceed in advance of public opinion, and public opinion will not allow an invasion of private rights without overwhelmingly positive evidence being presented. This evidence must be secured and properly presented to the public by scientific physicians, if a public feeling of social responsibility is to be developed.

Child psychology and proper methods of pedagogy are also involved. Teachers cannot be expected to solve the problems involved without assistance from physicians. Parents are in need of assist-
— 372 —

ance from both physicians and teachers. We must make ourselves competent: advisers to the parent and the teacher in order to develop in each child the best of which it is capable.

Sanitary science can control mass conditions, but great progress in the physical welfare of the race will not be made until individuals are thoroughly trained in ideals as to health standards and their obligations to others. It is a deplorable fact that in medical schools in this country, instruction in personal hygiene is almost unknown, and instruction in psychology is unheard of. The only explanation of this defect is that the profession has not as yet realized its responsibility in these directions.—From Journ, A. M. A. Proceedings of Mississippi Valley Medical Association, Oct. 23-25, 1913.

NOTES FROM CINCINNATI, OHIO.

The annual athletic Badge Competition of the Cincinnati public schools has just been completed. The contest consists in individual and school competition. The pupils are divided according to age and size. Girls take part in three events, running, broad jumping and basket ball throwing. Boys have four events: running; hop, step and jump or three standing broad jumps; chinning and basket ball throw. Each pupil must make an average of 10 points for each •event, but not less than 7 points and not more than 12 points in any one event. The reward for qualification is a bronze button for juniors and a silver button for seniors. The reports show that in seven schools more than 20 per cent of all the pupils who are eligible, ■qualified. The schools receive a final test and the school making the highest percentage wins the championship trophy. The Westwood school with a final 24 per cent won the trophy this year. The writer shall give a complete report of the reauirements for the Badge Contest at some later time.

The Physical Education Society of Cincinnati held its November meeting Saturday, Nov. 15th. Invitations had been sent out to all public school teachers, and many took advantage of this opportunity, -disregarding the bad weather on that day. The most important part of the program was a lecture on sex hygiene by Dr. Martin Fischer of the University of Cincinnati, who presented this delicate subject -to a mixed audience in a very clever manner.

“The great functions of living matter,” Dr. Fischer said, “are: feeding, work and sex functions. Much is talked about the first two, but very little about the third. Discussions generally center around religion and morality instead of sane education. The bisexual act is not an evil in itself, but it may be an evil because of conditions under which it is performed.”

The lecturer gave statistics which appear to prove that 80 per cent of all young men are infected with one form, and that 9-30 per

Digitized by Google
— 373 —

cent of these get another form of venereal disease. 60-70 per cent of all operations on women are made necessary because of venereal diseases, which are carried to them by their husbands or male consorts. The rapid increase of the death rate among men at the age of 40 is supposed to be due to infection in early life which never has been cured.

A spirited discussion followed the lecture and many interesting points wrere brought out. The education of the child in sexual matters, it was said, should begin by the parents as early as possible. Next to the parents the physician should undertake to impart truthful knowledge of the sexual functions. And after the physician the teacher is most fitted for this task. Ignorance brought on by prudishness is responsible for the great amount of venereal disease in this country. One lady asked whether it would be proper to discuss sex hvp'iehe before women and men. The doctor said: “Surely, if if cannot be discussed before both sexes, then it is not worth discussing.

The rest of the program consisted of a report upon the Turnfest at Leipzig by Mr. Aug. Eckel. The practical demonstration to be given by members of the Physical Training Department had to be postponed until the January meeting.

In 23 gymnasiums of the Cincinnati public and high schools 54 evening and 4 afternoon sessions are held every week. In many gymnasiums 2 classes receive their lessons on one evening so that we have 78 classes in all, with an enrollment of approximately 4000. The Friday night class at one of our gymnasiums had an average attendance of 157 last month.

Adolph Picker.

ATHLETIC NOTES.

By E. HAUG, DeWitt Clinton High Scho0l, 59th St. and 10th Ave., New York City

—A new World’s record with the 12-lb. hammer was recently made by Pat Ryan of the Irish-American Athletic Club of New York City. He set the new mark at 213 feet gTA inches, thereby displacing John Flanagan’s former record of 207 feet inches made Oct. 24, 1910.

—The German Olympic Committee has announced that the principal events of the Olympic Games to be held in Berlin in 1916 will be decided between July 1 and 10. The June dates contemplated earlier were abandoned by the committee at the request of the United States, which objected because the college athletes from the States would be unable to attend at that time of the year. The football and hockey championships are to be contested on May 29 and June 5 respectively and the rowing on August 12. The dates for the sailing, golf, etc., have not yet been fixed.

Digitized by C.ooQLe
— 374 —

—Harmes Kolehmainen, the great Finn long distance runner, won the io-mile run for the American championship at South Field, Columbia University, New York, on Nov. I., covering the distance in 50 min. 51 3-5 sec. This breaks the former record of 52.34 4-5 made by Geo. Bonhag. Incidentally he has also created 26 new intermediate records during this race.

—With international play for the Davis tennis cup assured for this country in 1914 there is already considerable rivalry among Boston, New York, Philadelphia and Chicago for the matches next season.

The Longwood Cricket Club, near Boston, where the last challenge round for the cup was played in this country and which resulted in an English victory, is understood to be an active bidder for the matches of 1914. The Crescent Athletic Club of Brooklyn, where Davis cup matches were played in 1902, is again in the field for the big event next year, while Philadelphia and Chicago are eager for a chance to see the international preliminary or final matches.

Judging from present information the United States National Lawn Tennis Association will have at least seven challenges to consider at the annual meeting to be held within the next three months. England, Australasia, Canada, Belgium and Germany are all said to have announced, in an informal way, their determination to challenge. France, Mexico, Switzerland and South Africa are also possibilities. The attitude of the English tennis officials is pessimistic, so far as a winning outlook is concerned, but they have gone on record as saying that regardless of their forlorn chance they will send a team to this country next summer.

The trouble with English tennis at this time aopears to be the lack of youth and natural plaving ability among the leadine representatives of that country. A famous tennis authority in discussing the situation and outlook said recently:—“None of the present top rankers is a natural genius like Renshaw, Doherty or Pirn. Mr. Parke, like Mr. Ritchie and S. H. Smith in a previous decade, has reached his present position by exploitation of muscle and stamina, aided bv dogged will. Other exponents of a similar character are doubtless in the making, and when they arrive we shall hail them, as we do Mr. Parke and those who model their game on his lines, as international representatives. But if we are wise we shall continue to look for the talent which has the hall mark of youth and natural ability to commend it.”

—Japanese soldiers are nearly all gvmnasts and every barrack has a gymnasium. So well trained are they that in less than half a

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— 375 —

minute they can scale a wall 14 feet high by simply leaping on each others’ shoulders, one man sustaining two or three others.

—Prince Madikane Q. Cele, of Zululand, who has been studying athletics in this country recently remarked that “American college football is altogether too brutal.” He further said that he would introduce football in a milder form as well as basketball and baseball.

—Record College Football Scores. Parke H. Davis, Princeton’s member of the Rules Committee, who has probably the most complete set of records in the country of football scores, has given out the following list of college elevens scoring one hundred points or more in a single game:—

Princeton 140, Lafayette o; 1884. Yale 130, Wesleyan o; 1886. Princeton 115, Virginia o; 1890. Yale 113, Dartmouth o; 1884. Chicago 108, Monmouth o; 1903. Michigan 107, Iowa o; 1902. Yale 106, Wesleyan o; 1887. Gallaudet 103, Baltimore o; 1913. Harvard 102, Amherst o; 1888. Minnesota 102, Grinnell o; 1902. Amherst 100, Williston o; 1891.

BOOK REVIEW.

—“Gilbert Dances” by Melvin B. Gilbert. Volume 1, 134 pages 9 by 12 inches. Published by G. Schirmer, New York. Price paper $150, cloth $2.50.

The complete set of the Gilbert Dances embraces three parts. Part I contains the simple school dances, while volumes I and II contain the more difficult compositions of Mr. Gilbert and of some of his best pupils. Teachers of physical training and also teachers of dancing must be grateful to have these dances presented to them in their authentic form. By being handed from Mr. Gilbert to his pupils, and then by the pupils to others, who in turn taught them, Some of the dances have been much changed. The correct forms, as now published, will be appreciated, therefore, by many who were not fortunate enough to learn them under Mr. Gilbert.

—“Gymnastic Dancing ” by Emil Rath, Dean of the Normal College, N. A. G. U., Indianapolis, Ind. Published by the author. Price 75c.

Although prepared principally for students of the Normal College, this outline of dancing, which is in the loose leaf form with only one side printed leaving the other side free for notes, will be found exceedingly valuable for all teachers of physical education. There is no description of the steps, but the more difficult ones are developed by a series of preparatory exercises, eliminating the need

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 37tf —

of the description. The material is carefully graded for the elementary and high school grades, presented in various formations and in combination with tactic exercises. It contains also suggestions for the arrangement of combinations and methodical hints as to procedure. The outline is highly recommended and should be of great help to every teacher.

—“Y. M. C- A. Athletic League, Official Handbook, Spaulding's Library. Published by the American Sports Publishing Co.,. New York. Price io cents.

This handbook gives the new method of organization of the1 Athletic League of the Young Men's Christian Associations. Relationships have been entirely reversed. The new methods place the responsibility for management and amateur status upon the local organization in place of a national body. The book is a valuable* contribution to methods of athletic administration. The “Athletic Platform" as outlined in the by-laws is a statement of the recognition in games and athletics of a force of great moral and ethical value. In a statement of what the league does hot favor, we find that emphasis on prize winning, commercialism, excesses and a high degree of specialization are all tabooed. The “Amateur Definition"' is divided into a “positive" and a “negative" wherein the spirit of amateurism is emphasized rather than the mere letter. In addition to the latest athletic rules, the book contains methods for organizing and scoring various indoor tests; scoring tables for track and field events; rules for a number of games and sports; and an esoeciallv good set of Volley Ball rules. The whole makes a most valuable book for any one engaged in teaching and training men and boys. If a set of scoring tables adaptable to boys' groups were inserted they would be of considerable value.

Marching Calisthenics and Fancy Step

FOR THE

G&GYMNASIUM.^S©

BY

GERTRUDE WILLIAMS-LUNDGREtf,

Formerly Physical Director of Kansas State Agricultural College and or the-Young Womens Christian Association of Burlington, Iowa.

Graduate of the Burnham Normal School of Physical Education. PRICE, 50 CENTS,

FREIDENKER publishing go.,

c.	o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

Digitized by ^ooQle