Tol. 22.

MIND AND BODY

NOVEMBER, 1915.

No 243

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Education Director, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah.

EMIL RATH. Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa All Business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., Room 40, Hathaway Bldg., Milwaukee. Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS

Heat Transmitted Through Windows—A recent article in Concrete-Cement Age, in referring to metal window sash says:

'‘Metal sash, when properly fitted into the concrete, are practically dust and air-tight and in this respect possess an important advantage over the old style wooden windows. One manager found that by using these he saved enough on his fuel bill the first winter to warrant the additional investment involved.

“Large window area was formerly vheld objectionable on account of the supposedly greater difficulty of heating. With wood frames this objection is doubtless potent. This is because wood cannot be made air-tight. It is the heat loss around the frame rather than through the pane that is serious. Metal windows, if properly fitted, are practically leak-proof. Tests have shown that no more heat is transmitted through this type of window than through a 12-in. brick wall. Double-glazing of the sashes decreases this loss still further, and the maximum result is obtained by duplicating the sashes as well. This is expensive, yet probably preferable to sacrificing any appreciable portion of the wall space available for windows in order to effect a slight saving in heating cost .”

Commenting on the foregoing, Prof. William Kent has the following to sav, in Industrial Engineering:

“All of which is important, if true, but we doubt the reliability of the tests that are said to have shown that no more heat is transmitted through a single-glazed metal window than through a 12-in. brick wall. The figures commonly used by heating engineers and architects, based on Peclet’s experiments, are, when reduced to B.T. U. per square foot per hour per degree difference of temperature, 12-in. brick wall, 0.33; single window, 1.20; indicating that the window transmits between three and four times as much heat as a

Digitized by UooQle
810

brick wall 12 in. thick and of the same area as the window, and it is inconceivable that so careful an experimenter as Peclet would not take pains to prevent leakage of window frames when making experiments on glass surfaces.”

Military Drill. Reprints of the article appearing in this issue of Mind and Body will be made for all subscribers who will send in their order prior to November 15th. The price of the reprints will be as follows: 50 for 75c, 100 for $1.25, 200 for $2.00, 500 for $3.50. These reprints should be very effective in cities where the clamor for military drill is threatening legitimate gymnastic work. A few pamphlets sent to members of school boards, editors of local newspapers and to influential local men should be of great value. But, the order for such reprints must be sent in at once.

NOTES FROM NORMAL SCHOOLS.

At the La Crosse State Normal School 475 students are registered. The school of physical education has double the number of students it had last year. Dr. Carl B. Sputh, the director of the school of physical education, is assisted by Miss Leonora G. Thompson, Mr. Gustav Heineman, Miss Grace Hildreth and Miss Helma Bue.

The first social function of the year occurred when the seniors and juniors of the school of physical education entertained the freshmen at a reception and dance on Saturday, Sept. 18. The same week officers of the Physical Education Club were elected for the ensuing semester. The election resulted as follows: President, Walter Bright; Vice-Pres., Marguerite Bodenstein; Secretary and Treasurer, Arthur Holthaus; Recorder, Arthur Stum.

The first regular meeting of the club was held on Monday, Oct.

4.	Mr. Marcell La Fromboise opened with a word of welcome to the uniors and Miss Catherine Roherty responded. Miss Thompson held the club’s interest with a delightful narration of her stay in Paris. Mr. Heineman in his talk urged the club to have a definite and worthy aim in view and to always get behind and push for the club’s interests.

The foot-ball team is rounding into shape for the mid-season games. Dr. Sputh is coaching the team.

Arthur Strum, Recorder.

AMERICAN COLLEGE OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, CHICAGO, ILL.

The winter session opened September 14th, 1915, with fifty new students enrolled. The college has opened its dormitory for women

Digitized by Google
811

within a block and a half from the school Twelve of the seniors returned and welcomed the juniors by giving a roast at Jackson Park on the beach, Sept. 24th.

A chapter of the American National Red Cross Life Saving Corps is being started by Mr. Longfellow.

All of last year’s faculty have returned; and we all look forward to a pleasant and profitable school year.

Liberty C. Roessler, Recorder.

SUMMER SESSION.

AMERICAN COLLEGE OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, CHICAGO, ILL.

The summer course opened July 1st and closed August 5th. A very good course was offered to both physical directors and play leaders which was made most agreeable by the cool weather. Outings were planned to places of interest on Saturday afternoons and social dances held on Tuesday evenings. The summer cshool picnic took place July 30th at Jackson Park. The afternoon of August 5th a discussion on the work of the school was held followed by an informal pfbgram and refreshments:

Liberty C. Roessler, Recorder.

JAHN PHYSICAL TRAINING CLUB, CHICAGO.

The club had its first meeting of the present school year on Saturday, October 9th. Practical work will be taken up at our next meeting on October 23d. Our program includes all branches of physical education. Any member who excels in any particular line, or one who has hit upon something new or exceptionally interesting or practical, offers it to the club.

We have increased our membership to well over fifty. Our meetings are held on every second and fourth Saturday of the month at the Northside Turnerhall. Any teacher of physical education who happens to be in Chicago on those days is invited to spend an afternoon with us, we assure him a cordial welcome.

C. F. Weege, Sec’y.

Digitized by C.ooQle
812

MILITARY TRAINING.

By WILLIAM A. STEJCHER, Director Physical Education, Public Schools,

Philadelphia.

Military training for every school boy, yes, even for girls, is a cry that at present is heard from many sides. In order to understand what “military training” means we will see what the official United States Handbook dealing with this subject has to say. This book is called “Infantry Drill Regulations.” It treats of the aim of Military Training and of what this training consists. Under the head of “Drill” we find the following: “Success in battle is the ultimate aim of all military training.” “The drill regulations are furnished as a guide. They provide the principles for training and for increasing the probability of success in battle.”

Inquiring into the method by which this training is to be accomplished we read that the “Training of the Infantry should consist of systematic physical exercises to develop the general physique, and of actual marching to accustom men to the fatigue of bearing arms and equipment” .... “The physical exercises are to consist of ten minute periods of vigorous setting up exercises, to be given three times a day” ..... “One march should be made each day with full equipment, beginning with a march of 2 or 3 miles and gradually increasing the distance.” It will be seen that the minimum amount of time to be devoted to physical training in the army is 1 Vi hours a day.

The means employed for this training, enumerated in the book, are “common and quick marching, running, the manual of arms, loading and firing of rifles, digging trenches, scouting, tramping and camping.” In giving this training the soldier first is considered singly (School of the soldier), then in groups ranging from a squad (School of the squad) up to a brigade.

If we except the loading and firing of rifles no one can possibly take exception to any of the other forms of exercise employed in the army. The object of military training is to make of the recruit a more efficient individual, to give him more endurance, to increase his power of co-ordination, to make him respond promptly to commands, to make him agile and strong. Accompanying this development of a person with the view of making him capable of efficient action as an individual, there is the further training to develop team-spirit in him so that his squad, or company, or regiment will act as a unit when the situation demands concerted action. The aim of real military training is not to do some marching, and to perform the manual of arms; this can be learned in a short time. The aim is to train for efficiency. Now, this is exactly what all physical training that deserves the name expects to do by

Digitized by
813

means of school gymnastics and athletics. By means of gymnastics, physical training teachers are trying to give to the growing boy— and girl—opportunities to develop into a strong, healthy, efficient individual; one who has full control of a well developed body; one whose mind has been so disciplined that when unforseen obstacles arise he will be able to overcome these by the selection of proper means; who is able to suppress selfish action in the interest of the group.

The great military powers of the European continent many years ago recognized the value of physical training as a preparation for military efficiency.* This is why they place so much weight upon physical training. In order to get strong, efficient soldiers they do not introduce military training into the schools. Far from it. All they ask of the schools is that they send forth healthy boys (and girls). Military training with them is too specialized a subject to have anyone but army officers teach it. Anyone who has followed the great debates in Europe centering about the re-arrangement of time for school subjects will find that the army officers did all they could to give to the growing boys and girls the additional time and facilities needed for sound physical growth and development. Their influence was exerted for an increase of time for regulated gymnastics, play and athletics. Had they thought that the introduction of some form of military training was advisable they easily could have secured it.

What are the conditions here in the United States so far as physical training is concerned? If a city gives to the boys and girls in the elementary schools io to 15 minutes a day for physical training (much of which is done in a schoolroom between school benches) it believes it has done its duty so far as gymnastics is concerned. In the high schools the conditions are a little better, although most children never get to the high schools.

It also must not be forgotten that millions of the children in the elementary schools of the United States get no systematic physical training at all. Compared with the hour of gymnastics in the school curriculum of some cities, one finds that in the countries of Europe gymnastics is given much more time and attention. First of all, one finds that except in the country schools gymnastic exercises in Europe are entirely in the hands of special teachers of gymnastics. The least amount of time devoted to physical training is two hours per week. In most countries it is three hours per week. In many states an obligatory play afternoon of at least two hours that must be spent once a week upon the large playgrounds, is added to the

* It must not be overlooked that both at West Point and Annapolis our future officers of the army and navy have their military training augmented by extensive physical training.

Digitized by C.ooQLe
S14

three hours of gymnastics. Under such conditions one really can speak of physical education. What we have in the United States is only a beginning. With us real physical training has not been given a chance, so far, to show what it can do for the child physically, mentally and morally.

There is still another side of the question. This is: will military training give us that physical vigor and preparedness that most people anticipate? If school boards will not grant more time, will not build drill halls, will not furnish enough drill masters, also rifles, tents, and other camp utensils, we will find, after the first enthusiasm has died down, that instead of progressing we have gone backward in preparedness. Without the proper tools nothing of permanent value can be accomplished. And in military education the proper tools are very expensive.

What we really need is a recognition of the fact that in the modern city and town real physical education should be a more effective school subject than it now is. We need more of it. What zve need is one hour of directed physical training and play per school day. The direction of this work should be in the hands of trained specialists, not in the hands of the regular classroom teacher. We also need sufficient sheltered room to carry on our gymnastic work on days when it is impossible to be out in the open. All this is going to cost much more money than it has cost so far. People, however, will soon see that it is better to spend money to keep children healthy than to spend money to care for them after they are ill. They also will see that exercise selected according to age and sex will make them stronger and healthier, that strong, healthy children will be less liable to contract disease. It is a proven fact that money spent for good physical training is an investment yielding large returns in health as well as in mental activity.

This health-training already has begun in many school systems. It is something that can be correlated closely with the regular school subjects. All that is needed is to extend the work. Even if it is extended to mean one hour per day it will not cost anything like the introduction of effective military drill. If, then, the state should decide that every boy from his 18th to his 21st year must spend one month in camp every summer to learn the manual of arms, be given rifle practice, and take up other military duties under the direction of officers of the United States army, we would come close to real “preparedness.”

Sound physical growth must be at the foundation of all preparedness, be this for success in the pursuits of peace or for personal and national defence. And sound physical growth can be given to school children better and for much less expense by means of adequate physical training than through military training.

Digitized by Google
815

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

By H. ARMIN 8TECHER, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

ELEMENTARY TEAM AND GROUP TUMBLING.

By H. DARNELL BRITTIN, Lorain, Ohio.

Series 2, No. 3. Individual Figures over rolled up mat.

1—	Short run, forward roll, placing head and hands on floor mat

and rolling over rolled up mat.

2—	Short, jump over rolled up mat. In jumping, touch rolled up

mat with both feet.

3—	Short run, jump over rolled up mat with full turn. (Jump off

one foot, land on two.)

4—	Short run, jump to kneel position on rolled up mat, forward roll

off.

5—	Short run, jump over rolled up mat to a momentary hand stand,

snap down to stand.

6—	Short run, jump over rolled up mat to a momentary hand stand,

chest roll to stand.

7—	Short run, turn forward in air and land on rolled up mat in sit-

ting position. (Feet on floor mat.)

Elementary Tosses for two and three.

A—Top (smallest boy) M—Middle and B—Bottom.

1—	A-i In front of B facing same direction, half forward roll to

mat with legs flexed.

B-2 Grasp A’s hands and pull A to stand. A assist by "whipping” legs to mat.

2—	. Same as number one except M and B grasp A’s right and

left hand respectively and pull A to stand.

3—	A-i Facing M and B, half forward roll to mat with legs flexed.

Place hands on mat (head between hands, palms down, fingers pointing toward shoulders.)

M-B-2 Grasp A’s right and left leg respectively and pull A to stand, A assisting with half backward roll and pushing hard with hands.

4—	A-i Facing B, side stride position, bend well forward and place •

hands between legs.

B-2 Bend over A, grasp A’s hands and pull A around to stand.

A assisting with spring from floor and keeping legs well spread during the turn.

5—	Same as number 4, except that A faces same direction as B and turns in opposite direction.

Digitized by LaOOQle
316

6—	A-i Facing’ B, knee bend position, place head and hands on

mat. (Forming triangle.)

B->2 Bend forward, grasp A’s ankles and pull A to head stand. B~3 Grasp A under the shoulders and lift A to stand, A assist-ing by “whipping” feet to mat.

7—	Same as number 6, except M and B grasp A’s right and left shoulder and lift A to stand.

8—	A-1 Facing B, B side stride position with knees bent, arms

folded and held forward.

A-2 Jump to kneel on B’s shoulders and immediately spring to mat—(in back of B).

g—A-B-i Stand back to back, arms upward, grasp hands, thumbs in.

B-2 Bend forward and pull A over back to stand (facing B) A assisting by describing a backward roll on B’s back as B bends forward. Avoid a “head bump” B bend head to left and A place head on B’s right shoulder, ic—A-1 In front facing B (B side stride position) half forward roll* to mat holding “tuck.”

B-2 Bend forward, grasp A’s heels and swing A between legs (A still holding “tuck”). At the end of the backward swing A release “tuck” and come to stand. ii— Same as number io, except B faces opposite direction, bends forward and places arms between legs to grasp A’s heels. B swings A between his (B) legs and at end of swing A describes a half backward turn in the air before releasing “tuck” and coming to stand.

A HOME-MADE BASEMENT PLAYGROUND.

By JOHN H. CHASE, Youngstown, O.

The winter and the spring vacations are the hardest, time in the year for mothers to take care of the little folks under twelve years of age while they are not in school. The weather is apt to be cold and stormy, so that the children cannot be out door for long; it gets dark early, and during the long day the means for entertainment wane, and everybody is apt to get on everybody’s nerves.

Realizing this, I tried to build a cheap, rough-and-tumble playground for our little girl and her friends, one afternoon, and I thought others might be interested in the ease and slight expense with which it could be done, says the playgrounds superintendent.

Most basements have for their ceiling exposed sleepers or floor joists, and these are just the thing for hanging apparatus.

Little children most of all, like swings, sandgardens, and travelling rings. The latter are a long row of rings hung by ropes from

Digitized by LjOOQle
irst to the second, lets go of 1 down the line, and these for children under 1) of sash cord (size No. 9) •dinary clothes line but is ten ollar. A coil will be enough

5.	At the same time buy six ;izes larger. These will cost t these in the beams of the les to two feet apart and turn the swing at right angles to o that the rope cannot jump '	any	board	that	is around the

de, 14 inches long, and one eep the rope in place, or sim-,aw. This is perfectly good kinds of fun with only half :h fun that the children will is to build one or two more t 50 swoops and then let the swing will look weak, but it de it is incredulous, let him

den packing box around the two feet wide, four feet long rer all the cracks, and on one ■sToe mauc me uua umj unc iuui uttp. A building contractor will send a sack of beautiful, clean lake shore sand for only 25 cents (with perhaps a little extra for delivery), and this was enough for the whole garden. Now wet the sand so that it will hold its shape for caves, castles, and artificial lakes, and children up to n years old will enjoy it. Those of us who have been to Atlantic City, N. J., remember the wonderful shapes and figures made in the sand by even adult artists.

“Lastly the travelling rings. Go to the ten cent store, ask for strong wooden towel rings (which are about five inches across), hang these rings in a row about three feet apart with the screw hooks and sash cord that you already have, and, presto, the traveling rings are in your own home at the expenditure of 50 or 60 cents and your boy or girl will be the most popular child in the neighborhood.

“Thus a playground for the winter with three of the things that children like most, can be built for two or three dollars in our own homes. And anyone can make it with two hours work and a hammer and saw. It will look crude, but will be sturdy and strong, and it will satisfy the hearts of the children.

“If the swings are in the way of the laundress, just slip them

Digitized by Tooele
818

off the hooks when she is there, or put another hook about four feet in front of the swing, and catch the rope over this hook just below the seat. The whole swing will then be close up to the ceiling and out of the way.”

Traveling rings, serviceable for young children, can be put up in a cellar, or basement, or attic, that is only 8 feet high.

FLAG DRILL.

By ADA B. CROZIER, Baltimore, Md.

Music:—Lacis and Gracis.

A.	Formation:—Alternate files of boys and girls.

B.	Arms bent upward, flags vertical, starting position for all exercises.

C.	All exercise to be taken left and right in alternation.

group i.— (64 counts, 16 measures.)

COUNTS

Exercise I.—Straighten arms upward........................ 1— 4

Circle arms inward to sideward....................... 5— 8

Return .............................................. 9—13

Position .............................................13—16

Repeat three times...................................... 48

64

Exercise II.—iunge left sideward and straighten arms left obliquely sideward (right arm at right angle to body,

shoulder level) .................................... 1— 4

Swing right arm downward to right obliquely sideward.. 3— 8

Return ................................................ 8—12

Position ..............................................13—16

Repeat three	times....................................... 48

64

Exercise III.—Stride left sideward and straighten arms sideward ................................................. 1— 4

Turn trunk left move arms upward crossing flags overhead (arms almost straight, flags crossing at hands).— *— 8

Return .......................:........................ 8—12

Position ..............................................13—16

Repeat three times......................................... 48

64

Exercise IV.—Two files moving- toward each other start with the inner foot. Step sideward—i (complete transference of weight) ; cross other foot in rear—2: step

Digitized by Google
819

again—3; close feet—4............................. 1— 4

Four marching steps in place........................ 5— 8

Straightening inside arms obliquely sideward crossing flags on 5. Four marching steps forward with flags

still crossed .................................... 9—12

Four marching steps in place........................13—16

Bending arms on 16.

Start with outer foot. Step sideward—1; cross other foot in rear—2; step again—3; close feet—4; four marching steps in place straightening j both arms

obliquely sideward on ............................ 1— 8

Then four marching steps backward................... 9—12

Four marching steps in place..........................13—16

Note:—This exercise is taken on lines of a square, starting sideward toward each other then moving forward in a column of couples, then sideward away from each other, then back to starting

position. 32 counts—8 measures.

group 11.—(64 counts, 16 measures.)

Exercise I.—Raise heels and straighten arms upward......... 1— 4

Bend knees half deep and move arms sideward............ 5— 8

Return ................................................ 9—12

Position ..............................................13—16

Repeat three	times....................................... 48

64

Exercise II.—Lunge left obliquely forward outward and

straighten arms left obliquely forward upward....... 1— 4

Lower trunk forward, move arms sideward............. 5— 8

Return ............................................. 9—12

Position ...........................................13—16

Repeat three times...................................... 48

64

Exercise III.—Straighten arms sideward................... 1— 4

Bend trunk left, move upward then lower forward crossing arms at right angles in front of chest.... 5— 8

Return ............................................. 9—12

Position .....................................:.......13—16

Repeat three times...................................... 48

64

Exercise IV.—Same exercise as in group I.

GROUP III.

I.	Boys repeat whole of group II.

II.	Girls repeat whole of group I.

(Files are working in divided order.)

Digitized by C^ooQle
820

AiN ATHLETIC DANCE FOR MEN OR BOYS.

Arranged by G. G. LORENTZ, Instructor of Physical Education, Chicago Public

Schools.

Formation in Open ranks.

Music :—“Four Jacks,” by Abe Losch. This should be played in double quick time, counting two counts to each measure instead of

four. Play as written, trio for Steps IV and VIII.

part i.—(16 measures.)	measures

Swing-hop sideward left, arms sideward left................... i

Same right ................................................... i

Stamp-stride-jump two times in place, arms sideward........... 2

Repeat ................................................'..... 12

1 &

part n.—Sprint. (32 measures.)

On your marks! (Right foot leading, head up, relaxed posi-

tion, hands on floor, almost sitting on left heel)........... 1

Get Set! Raise hips putting part of body weight on hands, raise

rear knee about four inches from floor....................... 1

Go! Run six steps (on place or forward), arms bent to thrust.

Close heels with one quarter turn left on last count......... 2

Repeat three times in a square left............................. 12

Repeat all in a square right.................................... 16

i A1 -	32

part hi.—(16 measures.)

Hop on right foot and touch left foot on floor with knee raised sideward (ct. 1), Hop on right and kick left sideward

(ct. 2.) Repeat, (ct. 3-4). Hands on hips.................. 2

Three gallop-steps sideward left, jump and close feet together

on last count..........................................   2

Repeat to right............................................... 4

Repeat left and right........................‘................ 8

16

part iv.—Shot Put. (32 measures.)

Touch left foot sideward, weight on right foot, both hands at

right shoulder, elbows sideward............................ 2

Raise left foot sideward, bending right knee and body to right side, right hand remains on shoulder, left arm extended

sideward and obliquely fore-upward......................... 2

Hop left sideward on right foot with one half turn left, right arm extended fore-upward and left obliquely downward. (This is the put)............................................... 2

Digitized by C.ooQle
821

Position; facing with one quarter turn left from original posi-

tion ...................................................... 2

Repeat three times in a square left........................... 24

32

part v.— (12 measures.)

Balance-hop left with one quarter turn left, right arm raised

backward, left arm fore-upward............................. 1

Balance-hop right with one half turn to right, position of arms

reversed .................................................. 1

Triple balance-hop left making one complete turn to left, left

arm fore-upward, right backward..........................   2

Same to right with position of arms reversed................... 2

Squat on floor with hands between knees........................ 1

Extend legs backward (lying support frontways)................. 1

Lower body to floor by bending	arms........................... 1

Straighten arms, raising body.................................. x

Jump to squat position with hands on floor....................  1

Stand in position.............................................  1

12

part vi.—Broad Jump. (32 measures.)

Raise both arms forward, heels together, knees straight.......... 1

Move arms backward and bend knees. (Back straight).............	1

Move arms forward with a short jump (about 2 feet) forward,

knees remain bent............................................ I

Stand in position with one quarter turn left..................... 1

Repeat three times in a square left............................. 12

Repeat all in a square right...................................  16

part vn.— (16 measures.)

32

Balance-hop forward left, left arm fore-upward, right arm

raised slightly backward.................................... 1

Swing-hop backward right, left arm across in front of body....	1

Jump to cross-stand with left foot in rear, both arms crossed in front of body, (ct. 1), jump to side stride stand, both arms

sideward, (ct. 2) .......................................     1

Jump to position, arms at side................................... 1

Repeat to right side............................................. 4

Repeat left and right..........................................   8

16

Digitized

i by Google !
822

part viii.—Pole Vault. (32 measures.)

Step sideward right, arms bent to thrust, left palm upward, and

right downward. (Position of carrying pole)................. 2

Raise right foot backward with one quarter turn to left, weight of body over left foot bending slightly forward, both arms upward close together, right hand on top of left. (Position of sticking pole in ground and preparing to spring).... 2 Leap from left foot with one quarter turn to left and alight with right leg extended sideward, left knee deeply bent and supporting weight of body, left hand on floor, right arm extended side-upward. (Position after vault)....................... 2

Stand in position with one quarter turn right. (This is one-

quarter turn from original position)........................ 2

Repeat three times, turning once around to original position..	24

pose.—(32 measures.) Play the first page of music straight through.

32

PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR BUSY PEOPLE.

By LEONHARD FELIX FULD, LL. M., Ph. D., Assistant Chief Examiner, Municipal Civil Service Commission, New York.

V.---FOOD, SLEEP AND CLOTHING.

In studying your diet you should consider three points:	What

you eat, how much you eat, and how you eat it. A healthy person may eat any food he likes. Eat sparingly, however, of fried foods, pastry, meats, relishes and other foods which are hard to digest. Eat starchy, fat and oily foods if you wish to increase your weight and eat and drink sparingly if you wish to decrease your weight. As regards quantity of food, most of us eat too much; very few fail to eat enough. When more food is eaten than is necessary for the immediate use of the body the surplus is laid up in the form of fat for use in time of need. Every person should have a normal amount of this emergency food supply, but an excessive amount of fat is a burden.

Wa^er should be drunk plentifully between meals and sparingly at meals. A glass of water on retiring and on rising is extremely beneficial for the stomach and it is also helpful in relieving constipation. When you are dry and parched, rinse the mouth and take a swallow of cool water. After waiting five minutes rinse the mouth again and take two or three swallows of water. At such times it is not advisable to drink large quantities of water.

In studying the manner in which you eat your food, make certain in the first place that you masticate it thoroughly. This pre-

/

Digitized by

Google
823

supposes that your teeth are properly cared for, and in good condition. See to it that you aid your stomach in digesting what you eat. Adapt your food to the condition of your stomach and your bowels. Relieve conditions of constipation and diarrhoea promptly, by proper exercise, medication and diet.

In studying the subject of sleep with a view of applying the results of your study to your own needs the subject may be considered under three heads:	Amount of sleep, manner of sleeping and means

of inducing sleep. Eight hours’ sleep is considered the normal amount. Young men and women under twenty-one should endeavor to obtain nine hours’ sleep and those above twenty-one frequently find seven hours sufficient for their needs. Sleep lost on one day by reason of an unforeseen emergency should be made up on a succeeding night.

It is best to sleep on a hair mattress in a room the windows of which have been lowered from the top to admit fresh air. Everyone should strive to acquire the habit of breathing through the nose while sleeping and of sleeping while lying on the right side.

Brain workers who experience difficulty in falling asleep when retiring may overcome this difficulty by any action on their part which tends to withdraw the blood from the brain before going to

XFIG. 2)	(FIG.	1)

Digitized by CaOOQle
824

bed. Everyone should refrain from mental work requiring mental concentration or close application during the hour before retiring.

A hot foot bath before retiring will tend to draw the blood form the head to the feet. A hot drink before retiring will tend to draw the blood from the head to the stomach. Slow leg exercises such as rising on toes (fig. I.) or deep knee bending (fig. 2) will not only draw the blood from the head to the legs, but will also tend to stimulate the circulation in the legs so as to overcome any tendency to cold feet in bed, a condition which seriously interferes with sound and refreshing sleep.

Many persons frequently fail to give sufficient attention to the hygienic features of the clothing which they wear. This is generally due to thoughtlessness rather than to ignorance. Heavy underclothing which causes perspiration and an opening of the pores of the skin makes a person especially susceptible to catching cold when he comes into contact with the raw winter air. Underclothes of light wool or raw silk are preferable in winter as well as in summer and when necessary the body may be made comfortable in going to and from home by the addition of necessary wraps.

Special care should be exercised to make certain that no garment is too tight at the waist or at the chest. A convenient test is to insert the hand beneath the garment which is suspected of being too tight. If the pressure of the garment upon the hand during breathing causes a cutting or a binding sensation it is too tight for health. Care should also be exercised to have the shoes well-fitting and sufficiently large and comfortable and to keep the feet at all seasons dry and warm.

WHAT CAN BE ACCOMPLISHED DURING THE WINTER ON PLAYGROUNDS WITHOUT BUILDINGS.

By MINERVA STERN, Philadelphia.

A spacious playground without a building is ideal for children in the summer and fall seasons, but during the winter months teachers find it a problem to give the children the same activities that children on playgrounds with gymnasiums are enjoying. Still, to the energetic teacher possessing initiative and ability much can be accomplished. I shall endeavor to state just what is being done on one of the playgrounds without a building in Philadelphia.

The boys seem more easily interested than the girls, for the stormy weather does not keep a boy from kicking a soccer ball at any time, so while he is having healthy exercise he is perfectly happy and content.

Therefore we have organized soccer ball leagues for teams of

Digitized by C^ooQLe
825

boys of various ages, also basket and volley ball leagues. These games are kept up all winter with great enthusiasm, everyone striving for the championship team.

With girls there seems a deeper problem to solve, for girls are more susceptive to the cold weather, so I shall tell you what our girls are doing. We start our gymnastic classes about September 15th. During September and October these classes are held on the open ground, receiving lessons in marching, skipping, running, folk dancing, apparatus work and games.

You may wonder how we secure our apparatus, well this did require some consideration the first year, but we found means of supplying a substitute for apparatus. The children were asked to bring

old broom sticks. These were brought with great curiosity, for the children were eager to see how we could make apparatus out of old broom sticks. These sticks were used for horizontal bars in this way:

The cla^ was arranged in groups of threes of equal height, the broom sticks placed upon the shoulders of two of the girls, while the third girl jumps to a front support, side support front-ways. (See figure.) Upon count the girls change positions. After all three have had a turn, the first child again jumps into the position and adds a turn over the bar, or stick, thus various exercises are executed upoil our invented horizontal bar.

Digitized by 0.ooQle
826

Some days we take up very simple forms of tumbling for a change, or simple pyramid building. One hour two or three afternoons a week is given up to captain ball league, organized for girls in good standing among the grammar schools in the district.

In the evenings the older boys and girls play basket and volley ball; once a month a volley ball tournament is scheduled among the various teams on the playground, this creates great interest among the teams, and inspires the. players to practice regularly.

The benefit of the grammar school league is manifold. The playground teachers come in touch with children who perhaps have never visited the playground before. The boys and girls realize the playground has many interesting organizations for them as well as for the younger children.

The girl scout movement is encouraged on these grounds. A troop consisting of three large patrols of girls from ten to seventeen years of age may be seen in full scout uniforms every Tuesday evening at their meetings, or once a month as they start out for their hike. These hikes are carefully planned by their captain to have some educational value attached to them, as for instance, hiking through Fairmount Park to the Aquarium. There the superintendent in charge, after taking the troop through the aquarium, explain-^ ing the various fishes, gave them a half-hour lecture upon the characteristics of fish.

These activities combined with different active games of low organization occupy interest and benefit the children, and are most successfully carried on until winter, when we search around for buildings for our children.

Our gymnastic classes during September and October have just given the children an idea of gymnastic work done in a gymnasium, thus they are willing to walk twenty-eight squares, fourteen each way, to and from our playground to the nearest playground with a gymnasium, for an hour’s lesson. The boys and girls between the ages of ten and fourteen are taken by their teachers,—girls Fridays, boys Tuesdays—to and from the playground once a week, to use the gymnasium at some recreation center during the supper hour of that ground, in other words, from 6:15 to 7:15. The girls over fourteen are taken Thursdays, using the gymnasium from 8:15 until 9:30. The children enjoy this hike and attend regularly, rain or snow never keeps them home, especially the younger ones look forward all week to this night.

The girl scouts also had to have a place to hold their meetings during the winter months, so a class room in one of the public schools where night sessions were conducted was granted to the teacher. This meeting is combined with a sewing circle, organized to help the girls make little economics, helpful Christmas gifts, at the same time
827

teaching them the art of embroidery, knitting and sewing, while they are listening to an interesting story.

Social life has not been forgotten on our playground either. Every Hallowe’en we take one of our gymnastic nights, and instead of a lesson in gymnastics, we secure the gymnasium for an old-fashioned country party, all girls over ten years of age are invited to this event.

During the Christmas season we secure the auditorium for one night, and give our annual festival, which consists of a little play, tableau, drills, songs, dances, etc., followed by the appearance of Santa Claus with gifts of candy or toys for the children. The rehearsal for this event we held in the basement of one of the stores across the street from our ground, working on the principle that where there is a will one will always find a way.

In this way we find our playground aiming to give our children some of the many advantages enjoyed by children attending playgrounds with buildings. The children appreciate and enjoy the diversity of our winter work very much, and the teachers find themselves happy in their effort to make the children happy.

A BRIEF CONSIDERATION OF THE AIMS AND EFFECTS OF GYMNASTICS OR SYSTEMATIC PHYSICAL TRAINING.

By FRANK B. MCGOVERN, Physical Director, St. Viator College, Bourbonnais,

Illinois.

The general aim of gymnastics or systematic physical training is to develop the body “into a harmonious whole under the perfect control of the will.,, Gymnastics does not aim to produce great bulk or abnormal development of muscle, but rather to cause the muscles present to respond readily to volition. Another aim is to improve the physiological or functional activity of the body and to promote bodily health and general well-being. Still another aim is to counteract and correct tendencies toward poor development and deformities of various kinds, especially such tendencies as those resulting from the artificial life of civilization: for instance round shoulders, hollow or flat chest, abnormal curvature of the spine, flat feet, poor posture in general occupational deformities, etc., etc.

As I said before, gymnastics does not aim to develop great large bulky muscles but it does aim to develop coordination, which is control of bodily movements by the will, or as stated above, to cause the muscles to respond readily to volition. This is brought about by concentration of our mind on the movements being performed, as our ability to perform any movement depends on the degree of

Digitized by CjOOQle
828

mental concentration we give while performing the movement. Take a boy who throws a baseball or shoots a basketball for the first time; his movements are apt to be awkward. However, concentration and practice soon polish off the rough edges of awkwardness, and gradually the movement becomes easy, precise, smooth and graceful in execution. Again if the average person brings his four fingers together and then tries to seperate the first two from the last two, he will usually find it diffifficult to do at first; but after several efforts, wherein he more or less unconsciously concentrates his attention to his fingers, he acquires by practice the ability to seperate them easily.

Again the ability to do certain movements is lost through lack of practice. Take for example a person who has been sick in bed for six months and who attempts to get up and take a walk. He usually finds that if he can get up, he is unable to walk at first, but has to learn again. The same is true to a certain degree of the crack athlete who has been away from his specialty for a long time. On attempting to perform his specialty he finds that his movements have become more or less awkward, and that the exact precision of form has been lessened to a greater or lesser degree; dependant largely on the length of time he has been away from his specialty, on his general bodily condition, and on his natural powers of coordination. Gradually through concentration, repetition and practice he regains his former ability and ease of movement.

These sams ideas also apply to gymnastic movements. The muscles form, by far the great bulk of the body weight, and their function is to enable the body to perform its movements-. In order to gain the ability to get a wider use of our muscles by gymnastics, we design a great number of gymnastic movements, all of which have a definite purpose in view. At first these movements are very simple: gradually the difficulty of the exercises is increased. They are repeated a great many times, always with volition; the movements become smoother and more graceful, and little by little, better bodily control is gained which eventually becomes automatic. A well coordinated man shows this control in his every movement, in his walk, exercise, carriage, ordinary actions of life, and even in repose, simply because he has educated his body and brought it under control of his will.

Another aim of gymnastics is to improve the physiological or functional activity of the organs of the body, such as circulation, respiration, digestion, etc. Exercise in general increases the circulation and respiration, that is, the activities of the heart and lungs. Going a little farther, localized exercise increases the functional activity of the organs in the part localized. For instance, if we give abdominal exercises the functional activity of the stomach and its appendages is increased, with the result that the processes of dloes-

Digitized by CjOOQle
829

tion, absorption, and assimilation of nutritive materials are hastened, and the expulsion of waste matter from the intestines is quickened.

Still another aim of 'nminastics is to counteract and correct poor development. This may be termed the physical side of exercise. Here we are concerned chiefly with shape of the body; also with its weight, elasticity, size, and other properties common to matter, all of which apply to the human body. If any part is misshapen, it means too much bone with not enough muscle, or illshaped bones or parts, caused by too great a tension in a wrong direction of the muscles attached to these parts. Muscles have great powers of elasticity and contractility. Bones, especially in the young, are easily capable of being bent. Now, if we are to have correct development, we must have the proper tension of the muscles attached to the bony framework. If the muscular tension in any part becomes too great, a very strong pull is brought to bear on the bony structures to which the muscles exerting the pull are attached, and the result is that a deformity takes place in that part. Hence we have the proposition that “Abnormal muscular tension causes deformity.” Now working on the principle that the repeated application of a force will produce a permanent change in structure, we apply certain movements with this object in view, and eventually we can (to a greater or lesser degree, correct the malformity in question, the degree of correction depending very largely on the oft-repeated, proper application of the indicated movements, which corresponds to the principle previously stated.

Thus; when we see a boy who has a poorly developed chest and shoulders, we find on examination that his chest muscles have been contracted and shortened by some faulty posture, or too much exercise of the wrong kind, thereby causing the bones of the chest and shoulders to be pulled out of shape and thereby diminishing the breathing power. In this case by special exercises to stretch out the shortened chest muscles in order to make possible greater chest expansion, a strengthening of the muscles of the back, and by the constant repetition of deep breathing exercises to expand and raise the chest, the contracted muscles are gradually stretched out to normal, and the bones commence to assume their proper relationship and development gradually becomes better and better, always approaching the ideal. In such a case the inevitable result so far as the physical side is concerned is wonderful improvement, not to mention the improved physiological and psychological effects.

We can see, from these few brief and very general considerations, that gymnastics, that is a systematic system of physical training when properly organized and taught, brings into play the psychological, physiological and physical side of a man and creates a condition of health and well-being that surpasses anything we have in the
830

way of medicinal agents or any other means existing for the purpose of acquiring one of the greatest assets man can have, namely, Good Health in all that the word implies.

INTEREST IN SPORT AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION AS A PHASE OF WOMAN’S DEVELOPMENT *

By D. A. SARGENT, M. D., President Sargent School.

During the last thirty years a large part of my attention has been directed to the physical examination of both sexes, from all classes of society, and in looking over my records of the champion athletes, I have been surprised to find that so many of them attributed their vigor and prowess to the fine physique of their mothers. I have yet to see the man or woman who has risen to eminence in any walk of life who could not trace a large part of his or her inherent ability to superior physical stamina on one side or the other and where both paternal and maternal ancestors were above the average the children also were sure to be. If then we recognize the production of a superior physical type to be one of the high aims of a people an aim made significant by our campaign for “better badies” and by our international athletic contests, we must realize that the physical nature of girls, as well as of boys, should be carefully trained and developed.

Thoroughly imbued with this idea I have given a great deal of attention to the physical education of women, and sincerely believe that in this line of work, carried out in the noblest and grandest way we may look not only for the physical improvement of our people, but also for the solution of many of the social, moral and civic problems with which we are now perplexed.

Just as it required trying experience and strenuous effort to develop the courageous women of the past, so it will require equally hardy endeavor to develop the noble women of the future. The women of the past through their home industries and occupations kept in vital touch with social progress, which was, to a very great extent dependent upon their manual dexterity, their creative ability and their physical resistance. Thus they contributed directly and unsparingly their share in the upbuilding of our nation. Today, what shall be the factor which will develop in woman this sense of civic co-operation, this consciousness of the nation’s need of their service? And by what methods shall women be trained to fitly take their part in the broad duties of the larger home, the community?

There should be in girls’ sports and exercises something which

* From Proceedings of the Sargent Normal School Association.

Digitized’by C^ooQle
831

calls out the heroic attributes of their nature, as well as the picturesque; something that makes them courageous and daring, as well as skillful, strong, and enduring. For this reason there has been introduced into the gymnastic training of women features such as wall-scaling contests, in which young women, without ropes or help of any kind other than their own squad formation, scale a twelve foot perpendicular wall in less than thirty seconds; fire drills in which girls jump from a height of thirty feet into a life-saving net, or carry “overcome” victims down a ladder.

The impression has sometimes been gained that such unusual forms of exercise for girls were merely attempts to imitate man’s prowess, or were for spectacular effect only. Such is not the case, however, for the success of these contests, the eagerness with which these and other vigorous events are planned and practiced, show that they meet a true response, both physiologically and psychological, in the girls’ natures.

During the stirring controversies waged by the supporters and detractors of foojtball for college boys the reading public has had ample opportunity to become familiar with certain phrases and ideas which have formed the slogan of the “pros.” ideas which might be termed popularized anthropology since they embody enough of the natural history of man to show that some such strenuous sport is a necessary outlet for the college boys’ super-abundant energy, not so satisfactorily expended on mathematics or the classics.

It took educators and biologists some little time however, to realize that girls, also, had within them this dynamic force seeking more normal and healthy outlets than had been universally accorded to them in the past. Women themselves had been slow to realize this tremendous power and had constantly overestimated their weakness, so that it needed many years of encouragement and of feeling their way through the stages of musical calisthenics and bean-bag drills to convince them that they would not fall to pieces in more violent exercise.

It was only a few decades ago that Dr. Thomas, a specialist on the diseases of women, put forth his plea for the restoration of woman to her proper sphere of physical strength in these words : “Before any improvement is attained in this matter, its importance must be estimated by, and a desire for it cultivated in those whom it most concerns. Neither appreciation of nor desire for physical excellence sufficiently exists among the refined women of our day. Our young women are too willing to be delicate, fragile, and incapable of endurance. They dread, above all things, the glow and hue of health, and the rotundity and beauty of muscularity.” We can afford to smile at this picture for women have progressed far on the right line since then. And whence has this “appreciation of and

Digitized by
832

desire for” greater endurance arisen? To answer this would take us far afield into a study of the general change in woman’s position and education; into a consideration of the ebb and flow of certain fads and styles, and into a glimpse of the mutual estimation of the sexes.

But whatever the cause, who can doubt that the morbid emotionalism which fed on slate pencils and vinegar to produce a becoming pallor has given place—let us hope for all time—to an ideal of physical excellence, an ideal that is closely allied with educational aims and economic conditions as well as with sports and pleasures.

This physical emancipation is in no other way perhaps, so well fostered as by the numerous summer camps for girls which have gained such popularity and done such beneficient work. The very rapidity with which girls and women have seized upon new and fascinating opportunities to try out and develop their physical capabilities through gymnastics, athletics and camp sports on land and water, proves that these natural activities are destined to play an even greater part in woman’s general outlook on life than on her mere physique. For just as it is not merely the physical struggle which make boys’ sports commendable, but those qualities of pluck, perseverence, and co-operation engendered by the play, so we find these same mental and moral benefits springing from the games of basket-ball, soccer, hockey, etc., in which the girls participate vigorously at school and camp. In my opinion one of the best ways to improve the present status of women is to give their pent-up feelings, blind longings and obscure impulses a motor outlet through some form of more or less strenuous physical activity. Through these activities girls reach a better understanding of their own physical and mental natures than through the purely “feminine” occupations of embroidery and crocheting. If women realized that much of their desire for an active “man’s” life of business and pleasure is due to the physiological fact that they are victims of inherited and accumulated emotions, for which they of the wealthier leisure class have not found an adequate outlet, they would in many cases adopt different lines of conduct and in a healthier and heartier participation in physical occupation largely counteract tendencies toward emotionalism, self-consciousness and artificiality. It is not trite, it is only true to say that women with well-trained bodies will turn to the most normal activities.

And it is too much to hope that the habits of hygiene and simplicity of dress which gymnasium and camp compel; that the self-reliance and perseverance gained on apparatus and in sports will have a trulv profound and lasting influence on the physique and mental attributes of women? Can we not expect that they will carry over into their economic life, in the home or in other fields
833

of labor a scientific understanding of how to adapt their strength to their duties? The prominence of the health factor in industrial life reflects this awakened interest in hygienic living and the efficiency of the workers, both men and women, is increased by opportunities for games and exercises under good conditions.

One of the oldest forms of recreation, the dance, has gune through such diversified phases of good and evil that one hesitates to classify it. Yet undoubtedly to a large class of girls it is the least expensive, most natural and easily obtained form of exercise. That many cities are recognizing the commercial value of this fact is shown by the proposition that large municipal dance halls be carried on in the parks, under such supervision as will insure order and decency. The small sum of admission, less than could be charged by private concerns, would, it is estimated by one city, be sufficient to defray the expenses of the entire park system and leave a surplus for added improvements. Were such a scheme carried out, it would mean the elimination of the most objectionable moral features of this exercise, since only wholesome minded dances would be permitted in these halls, and danger from liquor and evil influences would not be tolerated.

These are a few of the considerations which lead us to claim that woman's interest in sport and vigorous exercise, this wider discovery and utilization of her physical power, when given an opportunity to be developed normally and healthfully, leads directly to an uplife in the moral, physical and social factors which make for progress.

THE SCHOOLHOUSE AS A CRIME CONTRIBUTOR.

EDWARD C. EDLJOTT, Fh. D., Professor of Education, University of Wisconsin.

(Bulletin of the American Academy of Medicine.)

Up to the present moment the relation of education and criminality has been narrowly interpreted, either in terms of intelligence as increased through instruction, or in terms of physical condition as improved through care and protection. To many of us engaged in the serious study of education as the greatest of the social constructive professions, it appears that another item must be considered along with instruction and hygiene before the influence of the school will be positive in producing individuals possessing permanent behaving tendencies of a noncriminal sort. Broadly speaking, this new item is adequate and proper material provision in the public school for responding to the normal demand for activity on the part of both children and adults. Until this is brought to pass the American school will be guilty a contributor toward delinquency. Our ethics and our medicine have been top individualistic. The

Digitized by Google
834

moralist and the hygienist, to make a bold assertion, have regarded the individual, particularly the child in the school, as something that could be made morally antiseptic as easily as he could be made physically antiseptic. Scanty isolated illustration must suffice.

Just now the subject of physical morality occupies a large place in current thought. We are becoming more and more concerned with the possibility of making an effective program of public instruction, inside and outside of the school, in the matter of sex hygiene. Of what avail is such a program so long as the one place in the schoolhouse where sex obtrudes itself represents too often conspicuous uncleanliness, sanitary incompetence, and evil suggestiveness. As long as the larger per cent of American schoolhouses have their present inadequate and uncleanly toilet provisions and arrangements shall we have a contagious center for immorality.

There is, the country over to-day, an insistent need for the empowering of State boards of health with efficient authority to clean *up, not only our dirty physical schools, but our dirty moral schools. This is easy to assert, but difficult of performance. A case in point is that of an eastern State where the conditions to which I have just referred are notoriously bad. The president of the State board of health told me a few days since, while discussing the possibility of a more effective enforcement of the law now giving that board the power to condemn schools with improper and unsanitary outhouses, that a proper enforcement of the law would mean its immediate repeal by the legislature. A study of the social and educational situation in that State convinces me that he was right. There is a vast difference between clean statutes and clean schools.

The American schoolhouse is primarily a contributor to our criminal account, because it fosters jqsf that kind of uncleanliness in which the seeds of criminality find a ready growth. A large part of the problem of social hygiene centers in one part of the American schoolhouses.

The child of the city to-day is the child of the streets. To keep the child off the streets is next to an impossibility. His presence there presents not only an educational problem, but a social issue of increasing magnitude. The crime-preventing schoolhouse must provide, within and without, for proper play space for the children of its neighborhood. This schoolhouse must constitute itself a center for the physical and social activities of children outside as well as inside the school if it would successfully counteract the destructive influences that now characterize the streets of the American city. The schoolhouse of the average American city can not be held guiltless so long as it fails to compete with the alley.

The schoolhouse that keeps bankers’ hours is only half a school. Within a few weeks the board of education of a middle western city

Digitized by ^.ooQle
835

ordered all-night lights placed at the darkened entrances of all public school buildings. The reasons therefore were obvious. A good police measure, but a doubtful educational policy. The light might better have been provided for the inside and not for the outside of the building. Until the American schoolhouse is constructed so as to make proper provision for the legitimate recreations and amusements of our civilization, your medical sociologist will have an increasing task before him. If we aj;e to fight the devil with fire it is not unlikely that the billiard table and the dancing floor will find a place in the completely equipped and socially enlarged American school building.

The school house that remains closed for one-third to one-fourth of the year certainly presents a defenseless social policy. For the city child a summer vacation represents a crisis in moral development. The criminal responsibility of the schoolhouse will not be removed until it undertakes to be in operation throughout the whole year and in a way that will meet the instinctive needs of children and communities.

The most characteristic American immorality is political immorality. The American schoolhouse must be constructed so as to enable its use as a common meeting place for the discussion of political problems and social issues. “Keeping schools out of politics” is a pernicious doctrine. If the American schoolhouse is to be the real temple of democracy it must be constructed and arranged so as not only to safeguard children from physical ills and to promote their best physical development, but also to serve as a shrine in which our people may protect themselves from the criminal furies of modern political life.

So	long as we regard the schoolhouse as an influence apart from normal daily life will it remain a factor in the development of the abnormal and the artificial. Our first school buildings were designed and arranged by theologians and pedagogues. Next came the architects and the engineers, who were followed by the physicians and the hygienists. To-morrow the ideals of the humanist will control, ideals that seek to combine the necessities of instruction and of art, of construction and of health, of activities and of morals. All— pedagogue, architect, engineer, physician—must unite to make the schoolhouse sterile of the germs of immorality and criminality.

THE EDUCATIONAL DEPARTMENT of the INTERNATIONAL harvester company of new jersey, Chicago, ill., loans charts, slides, and films for express charges only, without any view to profit. This material affords self help. Anybody can use it. Circuits are now being formed to reduce express charges. Write for plans.

Digitized by C^ooQle
836

COLD BATHS AND SLEEPING PORCHES.

By A. MORGAN MAC WHINNPE, M. D., Seattle. (New York Medical Journal.)

The morning cold bath was not only a fad, but became a rage for a number of years. It is still followed by many as a most admirable procedure for toning up the nervous system; and so is the morning glass of whisky. Cold plunges are very much in evidence, even at the present time, in athletic house swimming pools and baths. In England the cold bath is very much in vogue, almost to the stage of fanaticism. It is often related that so and so broke the ice daily, when necessary, in order to obtain his cold plunge. If it were possible to measure the shock to the human mechanism and the extra work thrust upon the individual, what a change of sentiment would immediately take place!

No thought is given to the fact that the human body is a piece of mechanism which will stand but a given amount of strain. No greater shock was ever transmitted to this mechanism than we see at the swimming pools at a temperature of 70° F. This temperature, in itself, if continued for too long a period, adds more work to the internal organs. But for this to be followed, as we ordinarily see, by a hot shower and then by a cold shower, is the most abominable practice imaginable.

It is not to be wondered at that we see so many nervous systems wrecked; it is from nothing more or less than overstimulation. True, many persons are able to withstand this for a while, but the over-stimulation is followed by depression, which must be counterbalanced by an overaction or regeneration through an increase of the physiological processes; metabolic changes of all the internal organs and their secretions follow. This, in turn, means a large consumption of food in order to take the place of the losses.

The physiological processes of the various organs are capable of doing a definite amount of work. Such work is governed by the amount, as well as the character of ingested material, and by the capabilities of these organs to produce the necessary conversion, or by their power and that of their secretions to convert this latent energy of fuel to usefulness.

Fresh air never harmed any individual when taken under proper conditions; and it is necessary for healthy existence. In this day we hear much about fresh air; this has resulted in the establishment of numerous sleeping porches, so called. Sleeping in the open air, under proper conditions, is to be commended; but under the conditions- we ordinarily see, it is to be severely condemned.

Upon investigating 100 sleeping porches in this vicinity, the

Digitized by Google
837

following conditions were found to exist: In 96 cases the sides of the sleeping balcony were partially protected from the wind and rain by a tarpaulin or some other material. Two had no protection whatever, and one was inclosed with glass windows which could be thrown open horizontally at night on retiring. This was the only one that could be closed in the daytime, and had hot-water radiators connecting with the boiler in the cellar that kept the bed and its covering as warm all day as the rest of the house. In 98 cases the bed, mattress, linen, and covers were exposed all day to the dampness of the atmosphere. Only 46 had tarpaulin to protect the bedcovers from the moisture. It is needless to say that this covering was insufficient for proper protection.

On interrogating the persons who occupied these sleeping porches the answer was that they found a considerable amount of dampness throughout the covers and mattress. A number found it necessary to warm the bed by hot flatirons; others used an electric pad. The nervous system should not be subjected to the shock which dampness produces, especially at night when we find our physical forces at their lowest ebb. The body must in all these cases furnish heat enough to warm and practically dry out the bed covers or linen before the individual is able to go comfortably to sleep. This again makes it necessary for all the physiological forces to work more than is natural at that time of night, in order both to dry out the bed clothing and to keep the body warm.

A chill is quite frequently the result, and it is some little time before normal equilibrium is established. This will not harm such individuals as are robust and able to overcome the shock; but there are those who are pale and anemic, and not so robust—persons whose physiological forces are not so easily aroused to excessive work, and are able to maintain only their daily physiological processes without being called upon for any additional strain in the form of drying beds, mattresses, and covers. When such people occupy sleeping porches as described, their physiological forces fail to exert themselves to do the additional things called for. The inevitable result is a lowering of the bodily resistance to the point where attack is easily made by the various diseases.

The suggestion offered for sleeping porches is that they be so arranged as to be completely protected from the weather. Doors should be large, so that the bed can be kept in the heated room during the entire day. When ready for the night, it should be wheeled to the sleeping porch, thus obviating the disadvantageous conditions previously described.

Digitized by Google
838

ATHLETIC NOTES

By E. HAUG, DeWItt Clinton High School Now York Olty.

A departure in the teaching system of the Department of Physical Education has been made this year at Columbia University, and a course in athletics has been added to the curriculum. It is in Jine with the general policy of American universities to discard the old theory of teaching calisthenics only, and, instead, to instruct the students not proficient enough for intercollegiate sports in athletic training.

Ten branches of sports will be taught in the new course. They are rowing, basketball, football, soccer, track, handball, gymnastics, swimming, and lifesaving, baseball, and boxing. Under the university regulations governing the return of football, Head Coach Nelson Metcalf is made a member of the instruction force of the Department of Physical Education. At Oberlin College he directed track activities, as well as football. Associated with him will be H. A. Weamans, a trained athletic director, and Vincent G. Sanborn, captain of the Columbia crew last year.

Several of the larger colleges are putting the athletics under university supervision, and at Princeton four of the coaches have already been made officers in the department of Physical Education. Two of the Columbia coaches are also university instructors, Mr. Metcalf and E. T. Kenedy of swimming.

Gil Anderson won the great 350-mile auto race for the Astor Cup at the Sheepshead Bay Speedway last month, driving a Stutz, an American built car. His time was 3 hours 24 minutes 42 seconds, a record for the distance. Tom Rooney, also driving a Stutz, finished second and Ed O’Donnell, driving an American Deusen-berg, was third.

Cornell's new athletic held was formally dedicated Oct. 9, the ceremony taking place before the Cornell-Williams football game. In honor of the occasion university classes were suspended from noon to 2 o’clock. There was a parade of trustees, faculty members and undergraduates from the Quadrangle to the field, where the exercises were staged.

George W. Bacon, who as Chairman of the Alumni Field Committee is given credit for much of what has been accomplished in giving Cornell such a splendid athletic equipment, delivered an address on behalf of the Alumni Field Committee, and Paul Schoel-kopf of Niagara Falls delivered the keys of the field to President Schurman.

Digitized by LaOOQle
839

Mr. Schoellkopf represented some twelve members of the Schoellkopf family, who contributed the money for the field in memory of the late Henry Schoellkopf, former star Cornell football player.

The football and track field comprise about six acres. The gridiron runs north and south and is flanked on the east side by a concrete stadium which seats 9,000 persons. Above the stadium are two parkways for automobiles. A quarter-mile track encircles the gridiron and a 220-yard straightaway is located directly in front of the stadium. On the north is a handsome memorial club house erected by a prominent alumnus as a memorial to Schoellkopf. To the south of the field is the; baseball level, on which at some future date a varsity baseball diamond will be laid out. Many Cornell alumni attended the dedication ceremonies.

BY INSIDE RIGHT.

Commercialism, which has been the deadly foe of American soccer football in the past, is again threatening the game. There are ugly rumors abroad concerning certain players registered by the

U.	S. F. A. who are attempting to make capital out of affiliations with more than one club.

The rules of the U. S. F. A. expressly state that a player, after being registered as a member of a certain club, will not be allowed to play in another league or for another club. Any infraction of this rule will result in immediate suspension.

The question has been brought up by the Manufacturers’ League of New Jersey whether registered members of U. S. F. A. teams should be allowed to play for their factory elevens on Saturday afternoons. Obviously any such action would be a direct breach of the accepted law.

If soccer is to gain a permanent foothold, in America, its affairs must be regulated by a central governing body, and the authority of this body must be universally recognized.

matty’s record best—pitched twenty-seven scoreless innings

AGAINST ATHLETICS IN I905.

Ten years have passed since the record for few runs scored in a world’s series was established, and it still holds good. In the season of 1905 the New York Giants and the Athletics of Philadelphia created a new record for tight-score games played in a world’s series. A total of 18 runs was scored by both teams, the Giants getting 15, and the Mack men had to be satisfied with 3 runs in five games, all jf which were made in one contest. The series just played was a tight-score series and is next to the one of 190=;. but for real close decisions the scores of the contest recently fought by the Boston Sox and

Digitized by LjOOQle
840

the Philadelphia National were the greatest ever. Twenty-two runs were scored, but they were divided up in a more even manner than those in the Giants-Athletics series. Boston made 12 and the Phillies 10.

Christy Mathewson still retains the honor of pitching the most wonderful and effective ball of all hurlers in any world's series. Many followers of the game fully expected that the great Alexander would shatter pitching records in the series just played, and many wue disappointed when the^big fellow failed to work up to expectations. It is an old story, and it will be told until some other hurler arises who will shade the phenominal pitching of the great Matty in that never-to-be-forgotten series of 1905. For all-around excellence and effectiveness the pitching by Mathewson against the Athletics that season has never been equaled, and remains as the best performance of all hurlers who strained nerve, brawn, and brain to win fame in these contests for the highest honors in baseball.

Mathewson blanked the Athletics for 27 innings—three full games—and the most wonderful thing about the achievement is the fact the hard hitters of C. Mack never had the remotest chance of getting a score. Several pitchers have accomplished the feat of winning all their games in a world's series, but none has approached Mathewson in point of skill and class. Radbourne, Keefe, Miner Brown, “Big Orvie" Overall, together with James and Rudoloh of last season's fame, have performed wonders in these blue-ribbon contests.

To Organizations of the World Promoting Athletics :—

The Amateur Athletic Federation of Cook Co., 111., has completed the gigantic task of arranging an “International'' Athletic Tournament embracing the United States, Canada and foreign countries including the Philippine Islands, China, Japan, South America, etc., etc., and is asking the co-operation of all organizations of the world promoting athletics, such as Grade and High Schools, Academies, Colleges, Playgrounds, Settlements, Sunday Schools, Turners, Young Men's Christian Associations, etc. The plan is to hold a contest in each city conducted under the same rules and regulations as herein prescribed.

The contest is open to members of organizations affiliated with any Federation in the world, or organizations which will, in entering members, sign and strictly observe the general athletic Federation standards of amateurism.

Each contest is to take place in the local gymnasium or on the ^grounds of the organization entering, and can be indulged in only by persons who are in good standing in such organization—and to be between its own individual members, (or local groups of organi-
841

zations if desirable), said contest to take place any time between December ist and 31st, 1915.

The object of this mammoth meet is purely to stimulate additional interest in wholesome athletics throughout the world and to unify action, standardize methods and create a closer relationship between organizations striving toward the same goal, i. e., the development of a vigorous and healthy youth and manhood, dominated by high motives. Many hundreds of organizations and many thousands of members must compete to insure the success of the meet.

A lively, whole-hearted interest is necessary to insure the success of any enterprise and inasmuch as your endeavors in this instance will have the effect of furthering a cause close to the heart of every person in the world of sports, the Committee promoting this International contest asks your sincere co-operation.

It is our earnest hope that you will help make this meet a success, realizing, as you will, that a duty devolves upon you to further this cause, as your organization is one of the beneficiaries of this movement.	Cordially,

G. M. Martin, Chairman,

Central Dept., Y. M. C. A.

EVENTS

There will be four grades or classes for competition.

Class A—Boys. Boys under 14 years of age compete. 1. Running high jump. 2. Standing hop, step and jump. 3. 3 lap potato race.

Class B—Juniors. Boys under 16 years of age compete. 1. Running high jump. 2. Standing hop, step and jump. 3. 12 lb. shot put. 4. 5 lap potato race.

Class C—Intermediates. Boys under 18 years of age compete. Events same as Class B.

Class D—Seniors. All 18 years and over compete. 1. Running high jump. 2. Standing hop, step and jump. 3. 12 lb. shot put. 4. 8 lap potato race.

AWARDS.

First:—Individual awards. Diplomas commemorative of the games, suitably engraved with the name and position, to be awarded the highest one hundred participants of the world meet in each class; the basis shall be the total number of points made by the contestant in all the events of his class.

Second:—Team awards. Suitable diplomas, including names of unit and participants, to be awarded to the ten highest units in each class, counting the total points of the first twenty participants in each class.

Third:—Organization or Unit awards. Suitable diplomas to

Digitized by C^ooQle
842

be awarded the ten highest units or organizations, counting the total number of points of all participants in all classes.

Note—The term unit or organization refers in all cases to a single organization, as a single school or college, social settlement, or play center, one branch of the Y. M. C. A. or Turners, etc.

All organizations interested in the above announcement will kindly communicate with the chairman.

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

By D. M. P. KROQH, M. D.v Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

EXTRACTS FROM ESSAYS.

By GEO. VAN NESS DEARBORN, M. D., Ph. D., Tuft’s Medical College, and Dr. Sargent’s Normal School for Physical Education, Cambridge, Mass.

By D. M. F. KROGH, M. D., Cleveland School, Newark, N. J.

Some of the paragraphs and sentences in various of the pamphlets sent to me by Dr. Dearborn are so interesting to us teachers of physical education, and up-to-date from a physiological and psychological point of view that I was prompted to make the following extracts in the belief that they should be read by all who have the future progress and welfare of mankind at heart. I feel sure that the vast majority of physical educators and other teachers, as well as sympathizers in the cause, and authorities in the management of education will find much food for reflection in the following: “The Nerve Mechanism of Voluntary Movements.”

“Many eminent educators already are aware of the fact that the mental powers are developed by a proper and widespread development of the bodily powers, yet just across the Charles you have a good illustration of the obvious truth that there are still plenty of classicists who will not admit for a minute that the all-around development of the bodily organism is of any use at all as a basis for the development of the mental powers and mental training.,,

“The human brain is the “magnum opus” of the evolution of the animal creation, and many millions of years certainly are represented in the thin cortex of the human brain and in the relations which it bears to the other parts of the body.”

“It is the business of the gray part of the spinal cord, particularly that probably of the posterior horns, to represent the coordination of the separate muscles. The brain, it is to be emphasized, on this basis knows nothing about the separate muscles but has to do only with the activities and the gross movements of the organism; its function is to let go, so to say, the eager impulsive bodily activi-

Digitized by Google
843

ties and to control the motor tendencies which have been already coordinated in the (afferent?) gray matter of the spinal cord.” “One reason why educators in genera], and even many of those who really have heard of the cortex of the brain and the Rolandic area, do not realize that the efficiency-development of the body has great influence upon the development and vigor of the mind, is that the little area of the cortex of the brain around the fissure of Rolando has been badly “overworked” If we were to read in books upon this subject, we would be apt to find it stated that voluntary movement “originates in the Rolandic area of the cortex of the brain”; now, such a statement as that was proper, of course, years ago, but at the present time we all must realize that such a notion is quite inadequate. If anyone is able to demonstrate or can even suppose how a number, however large, of nerve cells in an area of the brain, the Rolandic area for instance, can coordinate and control by itself so many sets of reactions and control the movements of the body represented, we would all be glad to have them so demonstrate their assertions. On the very face of it such an idea is absurd, for all a man’s movements are controlled by his ideas and habits, and how these all could be determined from an area of his cortex a few square centimeters in size far up on the brain lobes is an impossible'thing to clearly imagine.”

“In the case of complex movements it is necessary that the young child receive some sort of suggestion that he can do or make the movement required; without self-confidence complex voluntary movements are not possible in the developing organism.”

“A man’s disposition (whether nervous, or choleric, or gloomy, or sanguine) influences his voluntary mechanism, and all of these factors have neural relations not represented in the four or five million cells in and around the fissure of Rolando alone, but none the less represented elsewhere: as far as the matters of eating and sex are concerned down in the vegetative sympathetic system and its systems of nerve-impulses.”

“Ideas are not adequate alone to determine voluntary movements, but emotional feelings do greatly help to determine them.” “The spinal cord and the cerebellum represent muscle synergies in a mechanical way and the function of the brain is to functionally release these tendencies to action in many and enormously complicated ways. Our conclusion must be that the whole brain is concerned in every voluntary movement; we must not “overwork” the fissure of Rolando in connection with voluntary movement.

Now, then, for one or two practical applications of the discussion of voluntary movement. I am glad to differ in some respects with certain notions upon this matter. I re-propose the old maxim that every young child should have systematic training of some sort
844

or degree that is not inconsistent with pleasurable free play so long as it be perfectly consistent with hygiene. Every young child should have some sort of systematic training in the largest possible variety of movements and these made in the largest possible number of ways, in addition to free play. Every adolescent should have systematic training for the greatest possible precision of movements not inconsistent with a large variety of movements, and, of course, not at all inconsistent with hygienic principles. It is skill that counts; if a man is going to develop his power of earning his living he wants to develop skill of one kind or another and the only way in which he can develop this necessary skill is by voluntary training. Some have overdone it in asserting that there is no such thing as cross-training and that in training one function you do not train another.

In gymnasium training we must show the average youth his versatility and this is true of course as well upon the playground. Thereby we can develop self-confidence as a basis for a future vocation. To this end you must show them how many things they can do if they only try. There are a lot of men everywhere earning only six dollars a week who, if they were to only try, might be earning fifty dollars a week; the chief basis of this benefit is self-confidence which comes largely from a development of skill in all possible directions. It is only such internal and external training, motor training, that can make a youth wholly master of his mechanism of efficiency, this also serving for a development of his mind.”

“Still another application important to be brought out is in regard to the use of a larger variety of movements, especially of the voluntary kind. Use a larger variety of movements, movements involving all the senses and speech, and thus the students will get voluntary training and development—all its breadth of usefulness. See to it that every part and every aspect of the brain and of the general nervous system gets exercise.

“Every voluntary movement involves practically the whole brain, and thus the simpler mental processes at least are dependent continually upon movements made in the body. If it be impossible still to show just how this is brought about, it is certain none the less that the motor skill developed by systematic training serves as a basis for the development of the mental powers; it is certain that in the long run it does do so. This idea is one upon which some scholars need to get up to date: the human organism a million years ago or less developed as a motor mechanism and since that time mind and such knowledge as is involved in the higher mathematics, etc., have all been added to it. They are all dependent upon the organism as a motor mechanism and that in ways which the scientists of time to come will be able to point out to you in detail.”

“Physical educators can see better than before, perhaps, the
845

physiologic basis of self-control of every kind in voluntary movements under skilled personal control. Herein, as developer of efficient personality, physical education gets its sanction as the foundation of all education.”

* * *

The Sthenic (active) Index in Education. In this essay Dr. Dearborn analyses the ideal education of children into neuromuscular training; the accumulation of data; and the development of skill, cleverness, or aptness whether of the body predominantly or of the “mind.”

“We shall see how intimate is the association in the total mechanism of efficiency between the feelings, bed-rock of personality, and the inhibitory functions and powers that characterize man as a limitless and no longer brutal animal. This phase of education best represents the mind as a whole, for whereas the accumulation of ideas and their association is mostly cognition, and physical education predominantly volition, skill and cleverness are inherently dependent on both of these aspects of mind and moreover are conditioned far more than most teachers realize by the affective phases of life, dominantly pleasantness and unpleasantness.”

“As all men have some access to primary truth, so all have some art or power of communication in their head, but only in the artist does it descend into the hand. There is an inequality, whose laws we do not yet know, between two men and between two moments of the same man, in respect of this faculty. In common hours we have the same facts as in the uncommon or inspired, but they do not sit for their portraits; they are not detached but lie in a web. The thought of genius is spontaneous; but the power of picture or expression, in the most enriched and flowing nature, implies a mixture of will, a certain control over the spontaneous states, without which no production is possible. (Emerson.) One only need peruse any composition extending over a number of days (this present essay, for example) to see how conspicuous this daily difference is. As I look over the manuscript for revision I find in some days' work many more errors than in others.

To make concrete this principle that truly creative talent develops for the most part only when the total resultant of body-strains is right, one could cite universal experience in every individual, laboratory measurements, etc. One of the latest and most conclusive of these announcements is the research-report of W. F. Book on his work on the development of skill in the use of a typewriting machine:	It is not what the learner would like to do, but what his

mental and physical condition at the time of study or practice will let him do, that is important for determining his progress. The most economic learning would seem to demand that the learner work

Digitized by
846

only when he can enjoy it and succeed—and to wait until he can. The average psychologist, trainer, artist, craftsman and writer knows this already and acts by it, but this statement is explicit indeed and grounded in extensive, exact research already famous.”

“In the most general way the sthenic index for education is identical with that in “physical” education, taught in the physiology of exercise. Euphoria represents a high plane of metabolic efficiency, the intake of energy and its outgo being large,—the plane, for example, of the lumberman in the winter forests of Newfoundland. Malaise on the other hand is a low plane of efficiency, that for example of a sufferer from typhoid lying some weeks in bed, the intake of energy and its outgo then both being low. So far as metabolism is concerned both of these planes, may be normal, although one is far higher than the average, the other far lower. Trouble comes only when the intake-outgo balance is either way disturbed. On the high plane of efficiency success attends even the greatest efforts, but on the low plane is, to say at least, unusual. And here we come upon the difference between the metabolic planes proper and the euphoria-malaise planes. Both have sthenic indexes of their own, but, one case involves the energy of the whole body and especially of the body’s fifty per cent of muscle, while the other concerns probably for the most part only the readily fluctuating sthenic index of the nerve “centers.” One factor of this latter dynamic balance not possible in the other is dynamogeny: the emotional multiplication of energy-expense.”

“Loss of energy, then, and lowered vitality (accompanied with the consciousness of weakness that is always unpleasant), characterizes the loss of the internal secretions of the testicles and ovaries. This result is suggested certainly in the three chemic relationships just cited, namely with that of the thyroid, concerned with the nutrition of “the nerves,” of the alimentary canal determining nutrition in general, and of the adrenals, governors of vasomotion and thereby of blood-supply. In general, vigorous sexuality makes for euphoria not less than for the sthenic positive balance proper, while defective or outworn ovaries and testicles correlate feebleness, lack of energy, and a deep-reaching malaise; according to Freud, of course sexual conditions are dominant of the whole subconscious life. However the details be one day found to be, the fact is universally appreciated that the sexual products are the most powerful of ener-gisers, lending with strength the most substantial kind of happiness —the very pride of human life. Not only energy but bodily nutrition is closely concerned with the secretions, internal and external, of the sexual glands—as comparison of the average elderly maid and the average married woman of like age shows at a glance.” “Most conspicuous of these omitted determinants of feeling.

Digitized by Google
847

perhaps, are the important muscular activities on which probably the affective states inherently depend. Both smooth and cross-striated muscle take important part in the emotions. The external secretions, lachrymal, sexual, alimentary, etc., are certainly other factors in the agreeableness-disagreeableness balance that lies beneath the success of high efficiency effort.

One other dominant of the sthenic index must, however, be suggested and briefly argued, namely personal effort. Progress in efficiency depends more or less on the pleasantness of the work, on attention, on brain and muscle-nutrition, internal secretion, muscular adroitness, the heart-rate, the blood-pressure, the humidity, the sunlight, and on many other things. These constitute a physiological syndrome whose meaning in the personal life is success itself. We are now studying, then, what we may term the psychophysiology of effort. The source of the euphoric §thenic balance, that efficient balance that makes effort successful, is not wholly impossible of description. Unless our research-observations are mistaken, all successful progress-effort is inherently and most personally inhibitory of movement. Effort that succeeds in raising the standard of success comes only from an euphoric balance in the total organism (spontaneous or at times compelled), and has its immediate representation in the neuromuscular mechanism in an increase of tonus both in the active nerve-cells and in the active muscles and limbs, It is then perhaps a more or less local (and likewise more or less general) process of motor inhibition, expressed as a heightening of local kinesthesia and a surer, more conscious, more personal control ”

“The efficient balance, that is of actual energy, underlying successful effort is then probably in part central, in cord and brain (a matter of nutrition, etc., as already inadequately explained) and in part peripheral, the inherently inhibitory balance-action of opposed functional groups of muscles, with kinesthetic sensations as its essential consciousness. Only under euphoric conditions apparently is this effortful balance of energy effective in advancing skill.”

“It remains for us, to learn; if we can, the concomitants of the euphoric” (euphoria is defined in Dunglison’s Medical Dictionary as “a good state of health, malaise, as an indisposition”) aspect of the balance.

In the early part of this essay we have noted; or rather referred to the more particularly muscular part of reaction of pleasant emotions—general expansiveness and extensor activity. More appropriate to the present application are other bodily correlates, those namely of a nervous kind.”

“In so far as encouragement from success and discouragement from unsuccess affect the development of skill, suggestion with all its complexities and perplexities comes into the problem. In a sim-

Digitized by C^ooQLe
848

ilar way of course act external encouragement and discouragement from teachers, parents, and fellows. These alike are illustrations of the far-reaching movement of the feelings in education.On the other hand, of what avail is endeavor to the friendless lad or lass without self-respect or confidence in the outcome of the struggle? Not always, by any means, as we have heard, is the race to the swift or the battle to the strong—often indeed both go to the happy, lords of the world.

When will systematic pedagogy give the credit due to this primal phase of human, and other, life? Feeling as the fountainhead of the impulse to activity that makes and keeps us alive, merits far more attention than it has generally received in public instruction. One hears to be sure in such relation something, at last, of esthetics, but other aspects of the feeling-world are vastly more vital to the world’s multitude. Knowledge of the common and fundamental life-experiences is properly part of the birth-right of every human born and should constitute, early and late, part of his systematic nurture. Understanding of the relations between his feelings and his ideas and of the close alliance between his feelings and his will, now a part of neither secular nor religious instruction, should be part of every sdiool-year.

If a child understood his feelings (rather than felt them) better than he ordinarily does, he would be more sensitive to external and internal conditions of efficiency and therefore would the better adapt himself and be more successful, not only in the acquirement of psychophysiologic skill but in the skillful conduct of his whole life.

To return to our original motif of practical educational theory, we get down to the fundamental, do we not? when we affirm that with a much finer regard for the tones of feeling, school-children would not only less often be “attempting to put square pegs into round holes,” but they would less often, too, be trying to put the pegs into the holes on triangular days, for they would on such davs be allowed to listen to the call of the woods and the fields, and their hearts be glad.

* * *

Some Factors in the Development of Voluntary Movement in the Infant. “A voluntary action ordinarily is made under some degree or other of emotional strain, if it be only a feeling of interest. If you have no interest in making a certain movement, if it does not mean something to you, if it does not give you some sort of pleasure, you are not very likely to make it. This is the reason that we keep on making voluntary movements, because it gives us pleasure and satisfaction to do so. The centers which represent emotional expression are concerned with most voluntary movements, so you have

Digitized by CaOOQle
849

at the basis certainly some degree of emotional tone and often, of course, a very highly emotional strain.”

“Another practical corollary is the need of more intensive attention, resulting in more careful adaptation. Here is where you “run up against” one of the fads of the time, the fad of letting children run wholly wild in the playground instead of giving the older ones part of the time definite things to do. We know that-it does not work out well in practice, and in theory we are not at all sure of its status. It is skill that counts, and skill means a better and even better adjustment, the habit being learned best on the playground and in the gymnasium. The greater the variety of the movement and the greater the delicacy of the adjustment in older children, the more exercise the whole brain will get, and it is skill that counts!

If you trace out in some such way as this the neurology of a voluntary movement, you will find that practically every portion of the brain (and cord?) is concerned in it. I can only repeat in closing what I said at the first, that when anyone tells you that voluntary movements originate in the cortex around the Rolandic area, and thence pass down into the muscles, and says that that is the neurology of making a voluntary movement, you will know that he is years behind the times. A voluntary movement is always connected with a motive, and motives are complex. Physical directors are coming to a broader study of behavior, and every voluntary movement is a part, an element of behavior, and it involves therefore an enormously complicated system of brain-parts.”

Hygiene in our Schools.—Health instruction in the public schools and for the masses has assumed a great and growing importance. Educators and the public today realize truths about hygiene that they were either indifferent to or in absolute ignorance of a few years ago. And even now they are only half educated on the question. In public education formerly it was enough to provide a building and textbooks. The school building might be unsanitary and the textbooks full of disease germs, but nobody knew or cared. And instruction left out everything that related to the ^health and physical welfare of the children. There were no playgrounds, no gymnasiums, no medical supervision of the schools, no care against infectious and contagious disease; consumptives sat in classrooms and communicated tuberculosis to other children and the malady was spread in families.

Educators and health boards have gradually learned better and public education now is far advanced from these primitive conditions. But there is a vast amount of work yet to do in our schools.

Digitized by CjOOQle
850

The State Department of Public Instruction has issued a volume A 156 pages on the subject of school hygiene, and it is the most valuable publication of its kind ever issued in this State. The monograph should be carefully studied by every teacher and public school official.

In its foreword the volume explains that a new attitude is required. In place of the “mummified physiology” taught in the schools the children should be taught the practice of good health habits. There should be conduct as well as information. It is held to be a peculiar obligation upon the community to provide wholesome conditions for the school child and upon the teacher to be well prepared to give efficient training and instruction, so that the children may become stronger mentally and physically, acquire proper habits and “develop a sense of responsibility in these matters.”

On everything relating to the physical and moral welfare of the child this monograph is all embracing and complete, and it will be an invaluable guide for the future for the right training of the school children of our Etate.—Editorial, Nezvark, N. JEvening Star, Oct. 2, 1915.

Health first.—The margin of physical vigor in excess of bodily needs is the capital which the child has to invest in education. It is the first business of the school to see that this capital is as large as possible. The school, therefore, should give primary attention to the health of the children, not only for the sake of health itself, but also to the end that education may be more effective. *	*	*

It is self-evident that the mental development of the child cannot be secured through education unless it has sufficient physical vigor to perform the acts required by the educative process. Nature is concerned first of all in maintaining life, and demands that the energy of the child be directed primarily toward that end. The normal child is endowed with more energy or vigor than is required for nutrition and growth. For educational purposes, this “factor of safety” may be regarded as the margin to be utilized by the school for intellectual development.—“Public Health Nezvs ” State of New Jersey. Vol. I. No. 2.

Provision for Exceptional Children in Public Schools” prepared by Jas. H. Van Sickle, Lightner Witmer and Leonard P. Ayres, is the title of a pamphlet issued by the United States Bureau of Education, Bulletin No. 461.

According to this the proportion of school populations composed of exceptional children according to their mental abilities is classified as follows: Talented 4 per cent; bright, normal and slow 92 per cent and feeble-minded 4 per cent.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
851

The second, the September, issue of Vol. I. of “Public Health News” of the state of New Jersey is designated as a School Hygiene number. The following mottoes have been chosen for it: “The physical welfare of the child is coequal in its comprehensive humanity with its mental and moral health.” Dr. Roswell Park. “School hygiene is one of the great problems of mankind,” Hon. Wm. B. Wilson, Sec. of Commerce and Labor.

Teachers of fresh air .classes testify that their children can work with as much efficiency the last hour in the day as the first. This fact alone, aside from the more important consideration of the children’s health, should induce school officials to provide better air conditions for all children.

Fatigue and Efficiency.—On account of fatigue the human machine cannot work continuously without intervals of rest. Children will do better work in school, with less physical strain, when recitation periods, or other work periods, are succeeded by short periods of rest. A change from mental to physical activity may be the best way to rest. If the windows are thrown open and the room aired during the rest period, the results will be all the more satisfactory.

The temperature usually recommended for school rooms is from 68^ to yo° F. Experiments have shown that by humidifying the air with live steam, a temperature of 6o° to 6i° may be maintained with perfect comfort. Recent experiments conducted on a very elaborate scale indicate that a temperature above 70° is not only deleterious in its effects upon the body, but produces a disinclination to work.

It is the experie'nce of Bellevue Hospital in New York that children suffering from pneumonia had a mortality of 26 per cent in well ventilated wards, but that the mortality immediately fell to 12 per cent when the little patients were put out in fresh air.—Clippings from “Public Health News” state of New Jersey.

The Response of the Organism to Environment.—One of the most remarkable features of organic evolution is that it results in the adaptation of the organism to its environment, and for this adaptation mutation and hybridization utterly fail to account. Of course, the argument of natural selection is called in to get over this difficulty. Those organisms which happen to exhibit favorable mutations will survive and hand on their advantages to the next generation, and so on. It has frequently been pointed out that this is not sufficient. Mutations occur in all directions, and the chances of a favorable one arising are extremely remote. Something more is wanted, and this something, it appears to me, is to be found in the direct response of the organism to environmental stimuli at all stages of development, whereby individual adaptation is secured, and this

Digitized by CjOOQle
852

individual adaptation must rise again and again in each succeeding generation. Moreover, the adaptation must .	.	.	tend to be

progressive, for each successive generation builds on a foundation of accumulated experience and has a better start than its predecessors.—Arthur Dendy, Medical Journal of Australia.

Among the tissues and organs of the body, it is our privilege to inquire then what muscle (muscle-protoplasm unified largely by the nerves into a single and always vital mechanism) has to do with' mind.

Of the protoplasmic nature of muscle and its intimate structure it is important only to note that by its intricate chemical composition, and by its consequent elaborate metabolism, muscle is amply adequate as a correlate of the mental process. No other bodily tissue has more complexity either in its molecules, or in the arrangement of these molecules into cells and fibers. If subtlety of metabolism or intricacy of structure be criteria of a physical basis for consciousness, we can probably find in muscle the maximum of each. Under such conditions we might reasonably expect to find, furthermore, a unique variety of forms of energy, and among them, perhaps, several potential energies which might most closely represent the experience we know as mind.

Muscle surely partakes in that basal generalization that mind no less than life inheres only in unifications.

Long since, Sir Michael Foster, notable among physiologists for the breadth of his vision and the excellence of his judgment, called muscle “the master tissue of the body/’ How can_we continue to ignore all these myopsychic relations? The mere wires of an electric system are not its essential part.

The brain, probably the cerebellum, coordinates the movements and, in case of the voluntary muscles, directs them on the same basis that some of the glands provide them with metabolic enzymes, the intestines with food, the blood with copimissary and sewerage service, and the lungs with oxygen. But the muscles, like the glands, the intestines and the lungs, are living protoplasm and we have the right to suppose serve the brain no more than the brain serves them. Each is but a special differentiation of one living substance like the rest of material force and matter, containing no essential inherent tendency to centrality.

We may claim, without fear of dispute, that the muscles furnish their quota of the energy of the afferent aspects of the nervous system. It is the movement in and of the muscles, tendons and joints that starts the kinesthetic and other cenesthetic impulses toward the centers. It is the stupendous maze of the central nervous system.

Digitized by 0.ooQle
853

on the other hand, that coordinates these multitudes of influences pushing into the gray matter. Our problem resolves itself then into, a matter of definitions—as so often happens in science and philosophy.—Geo. Van Ness Dearborn, M. D.} Ph. D.

Destruction of Bacteria Through Action of Light.—Dr. C. B. Bazzoni summarizes his work as follows: The full radiation of certain sources containing waves below 250 microns in length will kill bacteria certainly and rapidly. Isolated ultraviolet rays of length 250 to 280 microns will not affect bacteria in one drop of water in | a four-hour exposure. Isolated ultraviolet rays as short as 220 to 250 microns will kill only after several hours exposure even when the isolated radiation is of the same intensity as that contained in the rapidly destructive full radiation. The destructive power increases rapidly with decrease in wava length. The final conclusion is that the destructive effect of ultraviolet light is in some measure dependent on its association with longer radiations.—Am. Journal of Public Health, Boston, Nov. 1914.

The Nature of the Nerve Impulse.—Many views have been advanced with regard to the nature of the conduction processes in nerves. Naturally so fundamental a phenomenon as the passage of an impulse along a nerve cannot fail to awaken speculation on the part of anyone who is accustomed to think critically about physiologic processes. With the accumulation of new facts bearing on the question old theories have been abandoned and new hypotheses in turn advanced. The mere review of some of these is of interest as an illustration of the way in which science sometimes progresses. Thus, it has been suggested that the whole nerve moved like a bell rope; that the nerve was a tube, and that a biting acid flowed along it; that the nerve contained an elastic fluid which was thrown into oscillations; that it conducted an electric current like a wire; that it was composed of definitely arranged electromotor molecules which exerted an electrodynamic effect on each other; that it was made up of chemical particles which, like the particles of powder in a fuse, underwent an explosive change, each in turn exciting its neighbor; that the irritant caused a chemical change, which produced such an alteration of the electrical condition as to excite the neighboring parts to chemical change and thereby to electrical change, and so alternating chemical and electrical changes progressed along the fiber in the form of a wave; finally, that the molecules of the nerve substance underwent a form of physical vibration analogues to that assumed for light. (1)

Even at present, students of the subject are still divided into two camps, one of which inclines to a physical theory of nerve con-

Digitized by CaOOQle
854

duction, the other to a metabolic or chemical theory. We know, at any rate, that there is no mechanical change in the nerve. If the nerve serves merely as a conducting medium in a purely physical sense, one would not expect much, if any, expenditure of energy in the process. The lack of any heat production in stimulated nerves(2) appears like decided evidence against the idea that irritability is primarily a chemical phenomenon. Heat changes are characteristic of metabolism. On the other hand, convincing evidence has gradually accumulated tending to show certain small chemical changes incident to the excitatory processes in nerves from the fact that, in the complete absence of oxygen, the nerve fibers lose their irritability, and that the latter may be restored by readmission of oxygen to the nerve.

By the use of an ingeniously contrived apparatus, the biometer, in which amounts of carbon dioxid as small as 0.000,000,1 gm. can be measured, Tashiro(3) has demonstrated in the laboratories of the University of Chicago not only that all living nerves give off carbon dioxid—a sign of chemical change—but also that their metabolism increases on stimulation. These facts have now been supplemented by Tashiro and Adams (4) in harmony with the argument that the primary basis of protoplasmic irrtiability must be a chemical one. Their new evidence shows that, in the absence of oxygen, nerves have a far lower output of carbon dioxid than in air, and that stimuli which more than double the output in air fail to give any increase in an atmosphere of hydrogen, that is, an oxvgen-free medium. Oxygen is therefore primarily concerned with the metabolism of nerves.

The foregoing facts are no proof that oxidative change or metabolism in the nerve is the forerunner or cause of its conductivity. They might, of course, express the effect of the change in the state of excitability. Whatever the future may finally say to the question whether nerve fibers can function independently of chemical changes, it now seems certain that active metabolism in the nerve fiber is a fact; and, quoting the Chicago investigators, the incorrect assumption of an absence of metabolism can no longer be used by the physical school to support their argument.	t

(1)	Lombard, W. P.: General Physiology of Muscle and Nerve, American Text-Book of Physiology, edited by Howell, 1896, p. 97.

(2.) Hill, A. V.: Jour. Physiol., 1912, xliii, 433.

(3.) Tashiro, S.: Am. Jour. Physiol., 1913, xxxii, 107; ibid., 1914, xxxiii, 38.

(4•) Tashiro, S., and Adams, H. S.: Carbon Dioxide Production from the Nerve Fiber in a Hydrogen Atmosphere, Am. Jour. Physiol., 1914, xxxiv, 405.

—Editorial, Journal Am. Med. Assoc.*
855

BOOK REVIEW.

Mass Athletics in Universities and Colleges, by Henry F. Kal-lenberg, M. D. 24 pages and 2 inserts, illustrated, 7J4 by 7/4 inches. Published by the Young Men’s Christian Association College, Chicago, 111.

Dr. Kallenberg believes that the regeneration of athletics must be from above downward. The booklet which deals purposely with only one phase of college physical activities, was written for three purposes:

1.	To call attention to the place of athletics in the program of education.

2.	To suggest methods by which wholesome athletics can be made to contribute to the life of the entire student body.

3.	To secure the co-operation of educational institutions to place athletics everywhere upon a sane basis.

Whether or not, writes the author, the booklet will fulfil its mission, remains to be seen. We do not claim to have said the final word on mass athletics. Our desire is not only to add fuel to the smouldering and almost universal feeling that the present athletic situation is undesirable but also to suggest methods by which present conditions can in a measure at least be improved.

The booklet can be recommended heartily to all who wish to interest the mass rather than a favored few in athletics. The booklet carries with it the conviction that all the methods suggested are not “theories,” but that they are the outcome of a ripe experience.

Educational Hygiene, edited by Louis W. Rapee, Ph. D., Professor of Education, State College, Pa. 650 pages, 5^4 by 8 inches. Published by Charles Scribner’s Sons, New York. Price, $2.25.

The book is a collection of thirty-three essays written by some of the best known writers on educational subjects pertaining to the hygiene of the child and its surroundings from its pre-school years to the university. With its many illustrations and charts the book will be welcomed by all who are1 interested in medical supervision, physical education, school sanitation, the teaching of hygiene, and the hygiene of instruction.

“	Exercise in Education and Medicine,” by R. Tait Me Kenzie,

M.	D. 485 pages 6J4 by 9^4 inches, 478 illustrations. Published by W. B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia. Price, $4.00 net.

Of this new edition the publishers say as follows: For this new edition the entire work has been subjected to a most searching revision. New matter to the extent of 175 pages has been added and 132 additional illustrations have been included. These additions

Digitized by CjOOQle
856

make the work express the very latest advances both in the developmental exercises and physical trainings of the school, gymnasium, field and playground, and the application of systematic exercises and athletics for the correction of deformities and certain functional derangements, such as scoliosis, flat-foot, constipation, obesity, etc.

There is little to add to the above. Me Kenzie’s book, which should be in the hands of every teacher is becoming an encyclopaedia of physical exercise on its applied side. That the author also is a keen observer of the broader aspect of the subject is shown by the seventeen chapters under the heading of Exercise in Education. Some time ago we called attention to a statement made by a gentleman from Holland as to the growth of various “systems” of exercise, and questioned the reliability of his observations. Our inference that the gentleman really did not know what was happening there is borne out by a statement we find on page 329 of Me Kenzie’s book which says: “The tendency in America is away from the Swedish day’s order, in which movements are grouped according to regions exercised, and toward, the German idea which places emphasis upon the object to be achieved.

Calisthenic Exercises, by Arthur W. Peel, Physical Director Railroad Y. M. C. A., New York. 139 pages, 5 by 7^ inches. Published by the “Association Press,” 124 East 28th St., New York City.

The book is a collection of 119 sets of free exercises, exercises with wands, iron dumb-bells, clubs, chest-weights, also stall-bar-movements, work on the mats and exercises with the medicine-ball. It should be of great use to the younger men in the profession that are seeking new sets of movements.

A Manual of Personal Hygiene, edited by Walter L. Pyle, M.

D.	343 pages, 6 by 8 inches; 138 illustrations. Cloth $1.50. Published by W. B. Saunders Co., Philadelphia.

This is the sixth, revised and enlarged edition of the well-known book on hygiene. Dr. Pyle’s work sets forth the best means of preventing disease—the best means to perfect health. It discusses in clear, simple language the care of the teeth, skin, complexion and hair, bathing, clothing, mouth breathing and its cure, catching cold; singing, care of the eyes, school hygiene, body posture, ventilation, heating, water supply, house-cleaning, etc. Dr. Wiley, has contributed a chapter on food adulteration. There are chapters on home gymnastics, first-aid measures, etc.

Digitized by Google