MIND AND BODY

Vol. 33	NOVEMBER, 1926	No.	353

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO, NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERDINAND KROGH, M. D. Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walnut Lane, Germantown, Phila. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm% Minnesota, under the Act of March j, 1879,

♦---------------------------------

Qriginal articles and reprint^

*----------------------------------

THE NEEDS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION

By Clark W. Hetherington.

Professions grow. This growth is related usually to a service in satisfying human needs. New demands on a profession and the inability of a profession to render a service create problems and needs for the profession.

Physical education considered as a profession that has a service to render has made great progress since the world war began. To date thirty-three states have passed laws requiring physical education in the public schools. Several great social movements are promoting its cause. The opportunities for service are great; the needs for the service are greater.

On the other hand, physical education is enormously handicapped by traditional conception of education, and by narrow prejudices about the "physical” and about “play” that are sub-

•Delivered at the annual convention of the National Education Association, Philadelphia. June 29, 1926.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
244

tie survivals in American social psychology of ancient and discredited philosophies; viz., asceticism with its exaltation of the mind and its contempt for the body; scholasticism with its exaltation of the intellect and its neglect of the emotions; and Puritanism with its exaltation of seriousness and its fear and ignorance of play. The “body,” the “emotions” and “play” give physical education its being.

These prejudices, strange as it may seem, are strongest among the so-called cultured classes.

The prejudices and their products in educational organization have made many educators antagonistic or indifferent towards physical education. They have confused public opinion. They have enabled selfish workers to twist popular movements to selfish ends. They have hampered and discouraged practical workers.

Physical education as a profession, both because of the new demands upon it and because of the prejudices that hamper it, has needs and problems to solve if it is to render its service.

These needs and problems are of four classes:

(1)	The need of an interpretation of physical education and a statement of its objectives;

(2)	The need of a scientifically formulated program of physical education that school men and the public may recognize as standard;

(3)	The need of a standard university professional education that will produce an adequate supply of competent leaders who can organize and conduct the program; and

(4)	The need of a promotional campaign to develop a supporting public opinion that will make it possible for professional workers to execute the program and achieve its objectives.

The first need of physical education is an interpretation of its nature and a formulation of its objectives. This need is the first essential if an intelligent professional service service is to be rendered and a supporting public opinion developed. We need to know the scientific basis for the functions of physical education, not merely its legal status. All the other needs of physical education depend on this fundamental starting point.

The main items in such an interpretation and statement of objectives may be suggested. Brevity compels a dogmatic presentation without reference to unsolved problems. Physical education is a part of education. It is a teaching profession and it has grown with the social need for an institutionally organized education, especially in the school. To interpret it, the first essential is to recognize that the conceptions of both education and physical education have changed with social progress.

Education as a whole has been completely revolutionized in fifty years. The original function of the school, as we know it today, was to give a narrow literacy and book cultural education. All the rest of education (life and the preparation for life) went on as a natural process in the home and community. Education in this larger sense was identical with life. But the

Digitized by k^ooQle
245

school, on account of the social changes due to the introduction of machinery into industiy since 1860, and the practical elimination of educative activities from the home, has been compelled to assume many new functions and to incorporate into the curriculum many new “subjects of study.” Hence a curriculum of “subjects of study” has evolved which is coihplex, unscientific, difficult to administer and economically wasteful. This unsatisfactory situation is compelling still further change in school organization.

The new significant tendency in organization is the unification of old artificially separated “subjects of study” into natural teaching and administrative divisions of activities which are similar to or identical with out-of-school natural life activities and which enable the school organization of activities or curriculum to carry over into the out-of-school life and control it. Note the tendencies to unification in the social science activities, the natural science activities, the manual activities, the musical activities, the linguistic-communicative activities and the big muscle activities. These are natural units of activities for teaching and educational administration. The school organization is drifting to this type of organization of a curriculum of activities and a total direction of child life.

Physical education through its basic activities, the big muscle activities, has become one of the fundamental teaching and administrative divisions or units in the newer school organization.

As a part of the larger change in education as a whole and because of the same social influences, physical education has had two histories. One is the history of “formal” activities or “gymnastic drills” in the schoolroom which are rapidly dwindling in influence because of exploded values; the other is the history of the natural play life of children and youth out of school, in the home and community environment.

The history of the play life shows two movements; first, the tendency, previous to 1906, to break down under the cramping influences of an adult organized industrial civilization, and then, after 1906, the reestablishment of the play life by an elaborate social propaganda. This propaganda was initiated and conducted by adults, especially thru the Playground and Recreation Association of America. It carried a new conception of an institutionally organized physical education, and it established a new technique in the practical conduct of physical education.

The new physical education is the racially old natural physical education through play but enormously elaborated and systematized to meet the educational needs of children and youth under present day conditions of living and an institutionally organized education. It is centered in the play activities of the play space, the playground, the athletic field, the track, the swimming pool, the dancing floor, the park, the road and the open fields. This is the activity content of the new program in physical education that is being assimilated into the school or-

Digitized by v^ooQle
246

ganization, and into other institutional organizations of education. For brevity we will refer only to the school organization.

Thus we conceive of physical education as one of the six fundamental teaching and administrative divisions or units of the total school organization of general education. We can hardly over-emphasize this conception. One of the items in this conception that needs great emphasis is that physical education •is not concerned with “exercise” in the adult sense except for adults; but with a primary division of fundamental educative activities.

With this larger conception of education and of physical education freed from the thought-twisting limitations of past school practices, the field is cleared for a statement of the objectives of physical education.

As physical education is a part of education, its objectives, like those of any teaching and administrative division of education can be stated or defined only as a part of the objectives of education as a whole; and the objectives of education as a whole must be defined in broad enough terms to include all the objectives of all the teaching and administrative units, else the statement is false or partial.

A review of the literature shows that the objectives of education are stated from four points of view, all of which are inter-related.

The first point of view in stating objectives is that of the organizing leadership of children or individuals in activities. All the objectives or values there are in education, whether in the school or out of the school, are resident in the activities and in the leadership of the activities. Hence, the first aim of physical education is to organize and lead children in one teaching and administrative unit of educative activities—the big muscle activities. Here, we deal directly with the individual’s own conscious active life.

As compared with other units of activities, the big muscle activities, especially during childhood and youth, are the most generally interesting to all children, the most time consuming, the most dominantly social and the most vigorous. These are the educational characteristics of physical education activities.

The second point of view in stating or defining objectives is that of development of the powers of the organism in educative activities. Educators and society as a whole are interested in the cumulative, remote or end results of educative activities in terms of the development of the personal powers of individuals and the adjustment of the developing powers to adult social ways of living. Development is primary. All the end results as objectives are resident or inherent in the development . changes in activities. All learned activities involve changes in - the organism and in the adjustment of the organism to the environment. The cumulative results of the changes give development. The four aspects in considering the changes and the results in development are:
247

(a)	The primary changed meaning of the situation and the cumulative interpretive or intellectual development:

(b)	The primary change in satisfaction or annoyance and the cumulative impulsive development (i. e. interests, drives, etc.):

(c)	The primary change in neural connections and muscular contractions and the cumulative development of the nervous system or menti-motor strengths and skills; and

(d)	The primary change in the nutritive function and the cumulative development of nutritive or organic power, symbolized by endurance.

These changes in the activities are the source of all learned activities and all required abilities. They are the source of all development of the organism as distinct from the growth due to heredity. The changes are inherent in the learning responses; the development is inherent in the repetition of the response or activities.

All the aspects of change take place in every teaching and administrative unit of educative activity but in different degrees. Hence the values and developmental objectives of any teaching and administrative unit of activities, as distinct from any other educative activity, are inherent in the nature of the activity and the capacities it exercises. For this reason the big muscle activities are superior to any other unit of educative activities,

(a)	in the development of general organic power or vitality and endurance;

(b)	in the development of the general integrating function of the nervous system, of general nervous power illustrated by menti-motor strength and skill including the well recognized habits of posture and carriage; and

(c)	in the development of the deeper and more powerful emotional mechanisms and thought porcesses in total-body overt responses to the material and human environment. The development of organic power, nervous power, emotional power, and habits and interests is the developmental source of health. The development of habits in the emotional mechanisms and thought processes in the intense social relationships of play is the basic laboratory source of character. The realization of these fundamental results are the special developmental objectives of physical education.

The third point of view in stating or defining objectives is that of social adjustment to the adult functions of life: i. e., the vocational, civic, cultural, recreative, domestic.

Adult adjustment to adult social ways of living in performing the functions of adult life arises from the specific development in the specific activities of adult life. The abilities, however, to enter into the specific activities of adult life are acquired slowly and they depend on development in the more general educative or developmental activities characteristic of child life. Adjustment depends on development.

Digitized by

Google
248

Each of the fundamental teaching and administrative units of educative activities makes its distinctive contribution to the development necessary for efficiency in the adult functions. This contribution is according to the powers developed by the unit of activities. Physical education through the development inherent in big muscle activities makes its fundamental contribution, but this contribution is the same as that listed under the developmental objectives, not in specific adult adjustments. All adult adjustment is built on the powers outlined under the developmental objectives. Time prevents the amplifications of this significant relationship.

The fourth point of view in defining objectives is that of standards or ideals. Standards as objectives are judgments of the quality of the activity, or of development or of adjustment or of the organism, derived from racial experience or science. Only two groups of standards as objectives can be considered here: viz., moral character and health.

Character is a system of action traits. The source of all the learned ways of acting or action traits is entirely in the developmental results of activities. "Without activity there can be no development of character. But the moral quality of the responses and of the traits exercised in the activity is determined chiefly by leadership. This leadership is either social example or a positive directing companionship or teaching.

Each unit of educative activity has inherent in its nature the exercise of certain tendencies, abilities or traits that, under a standardizing leadership, establishes standard character traits, as for example, interests. Further, each activity because of its nature has characteristic moral situations arise in the social relationships of the activity which furnish the leader the opportunity to guide moral judgments, attitudes and practices.

Physical education or the big muscle play activities have inherent in them the exercise of the deepest and most powerful character forming emotional tendencies in human nature and they furnish the richest source of fundamental moral situations in the social relationships of children and youth. Because of the universal interest in these big muscle play activities, their intensely social nature, the great amount of time they naturally consume, and their susceptibility to leadership, they are the fundamental laboratory activities of a school program in moral education. Moral education is one of the supreme objectives of physical education.

Health is a condition of the organism. It is idealized as positive good health. This is the social standard of health. It is the product of heredity, activity (or behavior), and the environment. The school in its educative or teaching function, is concerned with the individual's activity or behavior. It is also concerned with the protection of children from the results of the other two factors which will be considered later. The

Digitized by Google
249

health of the adult individual depends largely on his own conduct, and this conduct requires the establishment of health practices, impelling interest and judgment.

The difficulty with the school problem in teaching health (or “health education” properly defined) is that the most important health practices take place outside the school and away from the teacher's personal direction. Further, health practices are not generally interesting or satisfying in themselves and satisfaction is the primary guide to conduct. This reduces the school problem in teaching health to a central problem of developing interests in health that will carry over to out of school health situations. This interest requires a purpose. The purpose that is psychologically valid is found in the “keep fit” or “training” or conditioning ideal because of the relationship of condition to the enjoyment of activities, or the achievement of purposes in life activities. The primary purposes of children are resident in the developmental activities; the keep fit purposes are secondary and the drive in them is related to the primary purposes.

Physical education, because of the teaching and administrative unit of activities it directs, furnishes the broadest and deepest setting for an effective method in teaching health. It is the natural foundation for the building of interests in health. Other units of activities may supplement the building of interests and expand the information, but physical education is the natural correlating center for such efforts. The teaching of a habit-building, interest-driven, thought-controlled conduct is one of the chief objectives of physical education.

So far we have considered the objectives only in the educative function of the school or of any institutional organization of education. Traditionally, education has been concerned with the leadership and the results of activities; but when institutionally organized, as in the school, it must take over another of the two primary functions of parents and all adults in dealing with the immature, viz., the protective function.

The purposes or objectives of this protective function are to free children and youth from the handicapping influences of crippling injuries, an unhygienic environment, growth defects, infections and communicable diseases. This is the old function of the home and part of the function of public health protection. Such protection by the school is necessary if children are to grow and develop normally, and profit by the educational procedures of the school. Hence, education, in its institutional organization in the school, has been compelled in self-defense, to assume this protective attitude more and more.

The protective function is a moral and usually a legal responsibility of the school. It is a moral responsibility of every teacher in personal charge of children and usually an administratively assigned function in some degree of every teacher in the elementary schools.
250

As the protective function is a moral responsibility of every teacher, it is a responsibility of every teacher in physical education. Where educative activities are departmentally organized as in large elementary schools, in junior and senior high schools, and in normal schools and colleges, this protective function becomes a special responsibility of the specialized director of physical education. This is a natural division of administrative responsibilities because of the physical educator’s special responsibilities in achieving health objectives in the educative functions of the school. The objectives in the protective function become special objectives of physical education.

In the interpretation of education and the part of it called

Kcal education it is important to emphasize the distinction jen the educative and protective functions, otherwise there is disastrous confusion in the administrative organization of these functions in the school. The chief point is that the protective function is an administrative function not a teaching function. It has primarily no. necessary connection whatever with skill in teaching health. While some of the procedures in health protection may be used in the procedures in teaching health, the latter is a matter of skill in the educative function, not in the protective function. Health protection is purely an administrative function which is fulfilled by its organization as an administrative responsibility. Skill in this responsibility carries with it no skill in teaching.

This distinction is vitally important for the unique, fundamental educative functions of physical education because of the tendency to put medical men in charge of departments in schools, including health and physical education, who are by training totally incompetent to administer the educative functions of physical education. This tendency in administrative organization is the logical result of the vicious, though usually unconscious, traditional habit of thinking of children's big muscle activities in terms of “exercise” in the adult sense and therefore as a “health practice.” In this sense, children never “exercise” spontaneously. They play, and play is nature’s method of education. The educator is the expert ally of nature in the organization of play, not the pathologist. Further, health is a condition of the organism and an ideal, not an activity. “Health cannot be an administrative unit in the school organization, except for health protection, because it has no activity to administer. Health, as an ideal, sets standards for all life activities or right ways of carrying on the activities; it should saturate all activities. It is not a separate activity. Administration is resident in the teaching and administrative units of activities; the standards are a function of the leadership of the activities. To set up “health” as an administrative unit in education, including health protection and one unit of educative activities, is as ridiculous as to set up “morals” as an administrative unit based on moral protection and one unit of educative activities.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
251

To summarize this first need of physical education in an interpretation and statement of its objectives in relationship to education as a whole, two definitions may be presented. School education is, first, a leadership of individuals in activities which give development and adjustment according to standards, and, second, a protection of individuals from handicapping influences so growth, development and adjustment according to standards may proceed naturally and normally.

Physical education is that phase of education which is concerned, first, with the leadership of individuals in big muscle activities to gain the development and the adjustment inherent in the activities according to standards, and, second, with the protection of individuals from handicapping influences so that growth, development and adjustment through the general educative function of the school may proceed naturally and normally.

The second need of physical education in its professional service is a scientifically formulated program. The word program in this sense, refers to the organization of the professional procedures used in any service in achieving results with the individuals being served.

The program is naturally based directly on the objectives in the functions of physical education.	tmt

The functions and objectives of physical education give two broad divisions to its program; viz., (1) the educative program and (2) the protective program.

1.. The educative program because of the objectives it must realize has three natural sub-programs. These are, "a” the program in activities or the “curriculum” of activities; “b” the program in character education, and “c” the program in teaching health or “health education.”

a. The activity program is the basic program. There can be no education without activity. In the scientific formulation of this activity program several principles are of fundamental importance.

(1)	The activities must be selected according to their values. Such a selection by criteria of the developmental and adjusting values of the activities puts the emphasis on the natural development or play activities. While the program must retain the artificial or formal activities for use where such activities have a specific value, they are relegated, in a scientific process of evaluation, to a distinctly subordinate place.

(2)	The activities must be adapted to the age, sex and individual differences in mental tendencies and in motor and organic capacities and needs determined by tests. These principles give an age progression in activities by years with a differentiation in the activities for boys and for girls over ten years of age, and an individual progression according to motor ability. The principles require further an adaptation to organic capacity and to special individual handicaps.

(3)	The adapted and evaluated activities must be formulated for practical organization and leadership under school

Digitized by ^ boogie
252

conditions to meet the developmental needs for a large amount and a great variety of activity. This principle requires an organization to teach activities within school hours that will tend to go on by their inherent interest during out-of-school hours, and it requires an extension of the school organization into the out-of-school “leisure time.”

Such an activity program is a natural program that carries over into child life and on into later adult life. Its scientific validity is a guarantee that the developmental objectives of physical education may he achieved.

b.	The character education program is based on the activity program but has its own teaching procedure. Character, morals, and manners are developed in activities, and only in activities under a standardizing leadership. But an instructor may organize and teach the coordinations and the strategy in physical education activities perfectly, and not consciously prie the character and discipining responses in the activities. Such direction requires a knowledge of and skill in the special technique of leadership or teaching in the character training that is inherent in the activities and in the moral situations that arise

, in the social relationships in the activities.

Physical education must have a special program of teaching constructed by a scientific analysis of the character training and moral situations that arise in big muscle activities, and by a scientifically tested technique in the leadership of the responses in the activities and situations. Sportsmanship, the Golden Rule applied to the ethics of play, is the popular Rey word that suggests the nature of the program. The program is fundamental to all school efforts in moral education.

c.	The health teaching program also is based on the activity program. But an instructor may secure all the values for health in the development of organic, nervous and emotional powers and in activity interests, without establishing an effective and abiding self-directing interest in health practices. On this self-impelling interest the stability of health practices depends. Such an interest and self-directed practice require a special program of leadership and teaching procedures in which the physical educator must he as consciously skilled as in teaching the activities. Further, he must know the values of and methods in the other teaching units of activities. Because of the interest in the activities he directs, he is the correlating center in all school efforts to teach health.

The program must be constructed by a scientific analysis of the psychology of health practices and of conditioning the self. “Training” or “keeping-fit” are the popular notions of this program. This program must be formulated as the foundation of all school efforts in teaching health.

Digitized by Google
253

These three sub-programs of activities, character training and health teaching constitute the natural educative program due to the essential nature of the activities and the standardizing leadership of the activities in physical education as a teaching and administrative division of education as a whole.

(To Be Concluded in Next Issue.)

NOTES OF TRAVEL*

By A. Gertrude Jacob

2.	Some Aspects of Life in South Africa.

Those of us who live in a country where the white race predominates, would find it hard to uhderstand conditions where whites are outnumbered ten to one. Cape Town being a seaport has a mixed population of Europeans (whites) Kaffirs, Hottentots, Zulus, Malays, Coolies and half-breeds and it offers problems that probably would not be duplicated anywhere else in the world. The question of immorality and mixed marriages alone, is one that presents a well-nigh hopeless outlook. One day a man applied to the Training College for Teachers for the admission of four of his children. He was apparently pure white. His application was accepted. When the children arrived two were white and two quite black. All had to be refused as schools are entirely segregated.

Many of the darker races are savages beneath the skin. White women cannot go unescorted in the evenings, except on the principal streets of Cape Town. Even in the better residential sections of the suburbs it is not considered safe.

With the instinct of self-preservation still the dominant one with these races, they will desert even their own families in time of illness. Hence epidemics carry off colored people by the hundreds. During the “Flu” after the war, the small proportion of whites had to care for the sick. In S. A. the “Flu” was really the “Black Plague”. Bodies went quite black and people dropped dead on the streets. Housed, as the colored races are, in dirty, unsanitary, closely crowded quarters it is easy to believe that death could reap a rich harvest at any time. An effort is being made now to give reservations to the colored races and segregate them. From the session I attended of Parliament during the discussion of the “Color Bai Bill” I judged that feeling is intense between the Boers (Nationalist) and the English or South African parties. My sympathies were entirely with the English and agreeing with the impassioned appeal of Sir Patrick Duncan not to take away the right of the colored man to develop. The bill virtually aims to keep .the colored races down by prohibiting them from entering business competition with whites or holding responsible positions in the mines. As one diamond mine alone employs about 250,000 Kaffirs one senses the keen

’Continued from last month.

Digitized by CjOOQle
264

injustice of a bill aimed to protect selfish interests. Some cultured colored men were sitting in the back seats of the gallery, a delegation of three hundred native women had come to Cape Town to protest and had remained in prayer all night and a petition against the bill signed by the official representatives of practically all churches and missions except the Boers’ had been sent to the prime minister twice before the bill had come up. It was passed by the lower and thrown out by the upper house. For a third hearing the law required a joint session of assembly and senate. With the Boer party in control, however, its passage was practically assured. I left S. A. before final action was taken and up to date it has not been mentioned in the meager news received by wireless. In fact we are out of touch with S. A. for the Indian Ocean has little traffic. For fifteen days we have seen no sign of any kind of a vessel and only get news now from the direction of Australia.

The rate of infant mortality was seventy-two per thousand for whites, at the last published report and about three times that for colored races.

I got this direct from Dr. T. Shadick Higgins, the kindly chief of the Board of Health for Cape Town. He, with an utterly inadequate staff, is doing his best to remedy conditions.

Clinics for both colored and white are conducted for expectant mothers, needy ones are given a free dinner every day, baby health centers are well organized, infants food is put up in sanitary packages by trained nurses and handed out at regular intervals to the poor.

Cape Town has a cleansing station for verminous persons belonging to the City Council and next door to the Day Nursery. Cases of pediculosis receive a hot bath, while their clothing is being disinfected and hair treated. Schools are asked to refer cases to this station. The families concerned are visited by health visitors and advice given. A local school authority may direct its medical office to examine any child at‘any time and if found to be suffering from vermin, contagious disease or dirt the local authority has a right to send a written notice to the parent or guardian requiring him to have the person or clothing of the child cleansed within twenty-four hours and excepting of course in cases of contagious disease. If the {parent or guardian does not comply the medical officer has the right to convey the child to a cleaning station and detain him there until the cleansing is effected. Where a parent or guardian fails a second time to keep a child clean he is liable to a fine not exceeding $26.00 or in default of payment to imprisonment with or without hard labor for a period not exceeding fourteen days. Would that such drastic measures were carried out to the letter in all schools the world over!

There are but two physicians assigned for schools for Cape Province. Yet so organized is their work that practically all white children have a thorough examination at least once during their school career, whether attending free or pay schools.

Thru the efforts of the “Society for the Protection of Child Life” seventeen dentists give voluntary service in Cape Town itself.

Digitized by C^ooQle
266

Sanitary inspection is carried on under the Board of Health but with the irresponsible help employed by food purveyors, ideals are far from realized. One mother told me that it was not uncommon for a Kaffir to remove the caps from milk bottles, take a “swill” from several in turn and replace the covers. Also that uncovered meat wagons might often be seen with their contents exposed to sun and dust except as covered by the natives sitting on the carcases of meat going to the retail trade. Her neighbors thought her a “crank" for supervising her own kitchen arrangements and caring for her children.

After having lived seven years in S. A. she is thankfully going home to Australia with her husband and three children. They are a visible tribute to the care expended upon them. She said that it was no uncommon thing either for a baby to be apparently well and strong one day and dead the next. When possible, children are sent out of the country for purposes of health and education.

On the other hand in Cape Town itself I could see no reason, aside from the removable unsanitary conditions, for its not being a very healthy place. It has about 3000 hours of sunshine per year to its credit so that people may live out of doors. It is swept by breezes from the cold Atlantic or warmer Indian oceans and it has a back ground of mountains. People can live out of doors a great deal; fires are not used for heating purposes to any extent, and then only the open grates, and every room has its ventilator built into the solid wall. There is an abundance of fruit with its life giving vitamins though “njealies” or Indian com seems to be the staple food for the poorer classes. Bananas may be had as low as 20 to 50 for a quarter. Grapes delectable large, juicy, sweet grapes from which doubtless the better grade of raisins are dried at 8c a pound. Small raisins themselves at 4c a pound. Crystallized fruits were on sale everywhere. I never tasted anything in that line so good as the ripe figs crystallized without drying. These retailed for about 35c a pound.

America is regarded as the most progressive country in the world so far as health standards are concerned. So keen was the interest manifested that during my stay of thirteen days I gave seven health talks along the lines which have from time to time been published in “Mind & Body” and which will shortly appear in book form.

South Africa like England is noted for its sports. More attention is given to games in school than formal exercise. Basket ball, hockey, tennis, walking or swimming formed part of the daily routine of the girls at the Huguenot Seminary situated at Wellington about two hours from Capetown on the main line of railroad. This educational center was patterned after Mount Holyoke by Americans and in the college department I found that several of my countrywomen were on the faculty. The facilities for formal gymnastic work were meager but a representative of the Battle Creek School of Physical Education was in charge and was doing some good work along corrective lines.

To my mind a healthy compulsory outdoor life supplemented by remedial exercise for the physically unfit plus adequate instruction

Digitized by CjOOQle
256

upon how to care for the body in a practical way, gives better results than formal work in the gymnasium. In our big cities, however, with our over-crowded conditions, damp and often cold weather we could not hope to compete with sunny South Africa.

I understand that education in S. A. has developed very much since the war, under English influence. The Boers however, have never been reconciled and one of the conditions imposed by the treaty was that both languages should be used. Afrikanese so far as I could learn is a mixture of Dutch, English and some words from native tribes. This bi-lingual policy has a tendency to keep up feeling between the whites themselves, is a serious handicap in schools and since Afrikanese would not be understood outside of Africa seems a short-sighted policy altogether.

At the Training College teachers who wish to specialize in Physical Education may take a year after they have finished their training courses. I found the Ling system in use and again much stress on games even with small children.

In passing I might note that there is a uniform wage scale in some parts of South Africa and a liberal general scheme for “leaves of absences.” A three months’ leave may be had at the end of the first five consecutive years of work on full pay or six months on half pay—at the end of ten years one year off on full pay. Deduction for the pension fund amounts to about four per cent. Women may retire at fifty years of age and must do so at fifty-five but men are allowed five years more. Those who receive full pension retire on about 57 1-2 % of their salaries.	'

South Africa draws its best teachers largely from England and they like to go home for rest and study. In fact my general impression was that while the Boers were proud to be Afrikanese the English population was continually changing. That in itself hinders progress along any line. There may be some teachers who would be interested in these three games which were new to me.

1.	Number Relay.

Played by any number of students which may be evenly divided. Number each file after dividing the class. Place bean bags along floor or platform at one end of the gymnasium and have the class sit on floor at a distance from them. Leader standing by blackboard calls out a number—“four” for example. All fours jump up, run from the left, get bean bag, circle file from right, return left back to place right. The first one back has chalked up one point in favor of file. For variations hopping, skipping or jumping may be used. The score may be counted at the expiration of time limit.

2.	Moving Target.

Class in circle formation divided into two teams each occupying half the circle marked on floor. A basket ball is placed in the middle. Each player has a tennis ball and tries to send the basket ball out thru opposite side by striking it with the tennis ball. Every “out” counts one for the side getting it thru. Start the ball from the center after every “out.” This is excellent for keeping every play-
257

er going as each one has to catch a tennis ball in order to shoot again and it is lively enough to .be thoroughly enjoyed. Only tennis balls may touch the basket ball.

3.	Poisoned Well.

Players in circle formation around circle marked in chalk. At a signal each one tries to push or pull the other across the line into the poisoned well. Two girls may attack one. The last one left wins.

WHEREIN DOES SKILL IN SUPERVISION CONSIST?

By James G. Bliss, Ph. D., School of Education, New York University.

The primary duty of a supervisor is to make himself (or herself) pleasing, acceptable, and helpful to his teachers. To this end, all supervision should be so organized and administered as to involve very definite constructive criticism. Furthermore, for the teacher to be, or not to be conscious of the criticism, must be given serious consideration. We contend that the instructor should not be conscious of the supervisor’s criticism in so far as it tends to provoke a state of hesitancy and embarassment, and stifle the feeling of freedom, self expression, and other desirable traits. Therein, lies the skill in supervision. The writer will attempt to substantiate this claim by introducing the following points.

Democratic Spirit

To be, or not to be, democratic as a supervisor, is the question involved here. We believe that a democratic attitude on the part of the supervisor is a very definite point of skill, involving t!,e meeting of instructors as equals for the purpose of discussing the lesson, and not merely to pass judgment on it. Such an attitude produces at once an atmosphere of familiarity, and unquestionably tends very definitely toward the development of a spirit of freedom, equality, and self expression in the teachers, and hence in the pupils, and finally in society at large.

Contrast, for example, the supervisor who said, “Miss Smith, you are all wrong in this matter; discard your idea and use mine.” with the one who resorted to this method of approach, “Miss Smith, I regard your opinion in this matter as highly as I do my own, but what do you think about this idea?” In the first case, you have a very definite picture of the supervisor who assumes, “I am the authority on this matter—do as I say because I am right, otherwise 1 would not be your supervisor.” In the latter method of attack, t' e supervisor has adopted the judicious attitude of immediately i lacing the instructor on an equal footing with himself, and consequently at ease, and at once ready and eager for the discussion to follow. The point is simply that the point of view of the supervisor may, or may not, provoke hesitation and embarassment on the part of the teach-

Digitized by CaOOQle
258

er, with an ultimate stifling of freedom of expression and initiative, and finally produce a marked decrease in esprit de corps so vital in any school system.

Preparation for Meeting

Is preparation for the interview necessary on the part of the skilled supervisor? We maintain that it is, and further contend, that an interview without very definite previous preparation is worthless.

A five-minute interview is almost as bad as no interview, a few friendly words spoken and a slap on the back before hurriedly passing out of the room is no better. In neither case has there been any opportunity for scientific thinking and real help in the sense of fresh ideas. Interviews of this type are as a rule conducted according to picked formulae, or a set of stock questions, or a stock outline of points which the supervisor carries in his vest pocket. It is only necessary to point out here that such a method of procedure is purely mechanical, and under no circumstances, is it conducive to scientific thinking.

The skilled supervisor does not hesitate to work on the assumption that no recitation or lesson is perfect. With this basic thought in mind, he proceeds with a clear and concise method of study to analyse and diagnose the lesson from a constructive point of view. He must see straight here and not get values mixed. Principles and ideas are not sufficient, their validity and utility must also be given careful mental consideration. The test question to be applied is, “Where can the supervisor be of real help to the teacher—where can he help with a fresh idea?” The answer, of course, is that he must face the facts, decide upon the points, judge which ones are of most worth, and finally decide whether or not he has anything of real substance to say to the instructor. In this connection, the very best a supervisor has to give, should he given freely, and the skill involved therein is directly proportional to the degree in which real profit accrues from the preparation.

Art of Questioning

The significance of the wording of an issue cannot be too strongly emphasized. A poorly worded question is not conducive to scientific thinking, involves a loss of time, and fails to dig into the issue. On the other hand, a well worded or pointed question immediately focuses the discussion on a specific issue. A well worded question calls for clear thinking and sound reasoning and does not permit of any wandering from the subject, Again, a poorly worded question may force the point on the teacher. This, of course, is to be avoided.

The ability to put the question in such a manner as to make the instructor feel that an issue is being raised for discussion would be a wiser plan. To illustrate, a supervisor in the act of observing a fifth grade in supervised play was impressed by the excellent example of cooperation, leadership, and followership displayed on the psul; of the class in general. He wondered whether or not the teacher thought she had reached the objective in the development of these
259

desirable social traits, also as to her idea of individual instruction. He remarked upon the excellencies of the class and then put this question, “Miss Brown, what are your plans for the future in this matter?” The answer came promptly, "We have a lot ahead of us for the future—John, Tom, and Mary have developed a splendid attitude but Helen, Ben, and Peter need a lot of work.” Naturally, the supervisor got all that he was expecting. This teacher was looking forward to the future and thinking of individual instruction at the same time. She did not consider for a moment that the goal had been reached. The points in the mind of the supervisor were made very nicely without any crowding or forcing of the issue upon the instructor.

Minor Points .Of Skill

The power to sense all such things as inexperience, self consciousness, and other traits in teachers is a wonderful thing. Sympathetic supervision, especially in the case of young teachers, is highly desirable. The ability and the patience to help these teachers stand on their own feet, find their own thoughts, and inculcate independence on their part, is a very definite test of skill for any supervisor.

In the event of a conflict of opinion between an instructor and supervisor, the latter should have sufficient self control not to show displeasure even by facial expressions. To do so would tend to electrocute the feeling of freedom and self expression, and this must be preserved.

The meeting between the teacher and supervisor, or a group of teachers and supervisor, should be businesslike in every detail. The duty of the supervisor is to provide real professional leadership in such a meeting. He should have an outline of the issue to be discussed. It is his duty to keep things moving, to help frequently with a fresh idea, to hold to the main issue and vigorously discourage any digression from the point. The supervisor is the leader and the leader sets the standards. The meeting will be vigorous or anemic, expressive or repressive, satisfying or annoying, according to the standards.

CONSTIPATION

Constipation is not a matter of time elapsing between bowel movements. An individual may go to stool each day, or oftener, and still be seriously constipated.

Constipation is a disturbance of intestinal function characterized by insufficient or abnormally retarded elimination of intestinal contents.

Constipation is the failure of the intestines to discharge body waste and food residue from the entire digestive tract as soon as all the nutritive elements in the food have been absorbed.

The intestine is a flexible tube with muscular walls 32 fast long. This tubs is capable of varying degrees of distention.

Digitized by kjOOQle
260

The process of digestion begins in the mouth the moment food becomes mixed with saliva. In the stomach there are various other digestive fluids which further carry on the process of transforming food into a condition suitable for absorption through the stomach and intestinal walls into the blood. Absorption begins instantly, even in the mouth, just as soon as substances are in suitable condition to be absorbed, and continues, as digestion continues throughout the entire digestive tract, in the mouth, stomach, small intestines, and the lower large intestine. By the time food reaches the large intestine, which is the lower eight feet of the bowel, this process of digestion and absorption has been practically completed. What remains to enter the large intestine is the bulky indigestible parts of the food. Along the way various ducts empty into the intestine their quota of body waste which has been filtered from the blood and which mixes with food waste in the intestine itself.

With a little imagination the entire digestive tract may be compared to the water and sewerage system of a city. The pure, life-giving water enters the city through one large intake water main. In the city this water is drawn out at innumerable places for consumption, and the refuse water, together with the city waste, is collected into the sewer system, and finally is discharged from the city by one large sewer.

While the large intestine serves the purpose of a reservoir to make possible the periodic discharge of body sewage, it also retains the ability of the rest of the intestinal tract to absorb substances with which it is filled.

So long as intestinal activity is normal this faculty of absorption in the lower bowel serves the purpose of picking out, to be used, the last vestige of nutriment which the food contains. When, however, there is a disturbance, by whatever cause, of the normal flow of sewage, and the large bowel becomes distended with retained feces, there results an inevitable absorption of waste products. This sewage comprises not alone the food residue and the body waste which has been eliminated and discharged into the bowel to be carried out of the body, but also the poisons of putrifaction.

Normally, the liver, for instance, is easily capable of filtering out of the blood all of the body waste which it is the duty of the liver to handle. This task is done easily and efficiently, but the work of the liver ceases when it has discharged its load of waste into the bowel—the sewer. Since life is continuous, this work of the liver is continuous.

When, however, the sewer outlet becomes dammed up and the large intestine begins reabsorbing this body waste, which the liver had already disposed of, it throws it right back into the circulation to be again filtered out. This results in a double load for the_liver, and often is more than the liver

Digitized by
261

is capable of doing. In this instance the kidneys try to come to the rescue by filtering out of the blood some of this excess poison waste which the blood contains.

Neither the liver nor the kidneys can continue doing double duty without eventually being damaged.

In the meantime, if this obstruction at the sewer outlet continues, and these poisons must be repeatly absorbed and eliminated, the work cannot be thoroughly done by either liver or kidneys, and the whole system becomes saturated with poison which it cannot get rid of.

This poinsonous waste irritates all the nerve endings with which it comes in contact, with the result that a constipated person may suffer almost any and every form of ache and pain. The most frequent of these are headache, backache, so-called rheumatism, and nervous irritability. If continued, any one can see that finally the result could be most disastrous.

# With this explanation it is now easy to understand why it is possible for there to be a discharge of a small amount of feces from the lower end of the large bowl, perhaps each day, or even oftener, and yet there can remain in the upper part of the large bowel much distention. In other words, that which passes today should have passed two or three days previous, and that which should pass today is retained two or three days over time.

There are different causes of constipation. There may be some physical obstruction in the bowel which, by pressure, partially or completely closes this elastic tube. Such a condition can only be corrected by a competent physician or surgeon. Such conditions, however, cause such a small amount of the almost universal constipation that we will not dicuss them here, except to say they are problems for the doctor only to solve.

Nearly all constipation is useless and can be avoided or corrected. And that is what we want to discuss. The most common cause is nothing more nor less than habit.

If you are healthy and accustomed to eating dinner at 12 o’clock, you habitually get hungry when that time comes. When your work changes and you cannot eat dinner until 1 o’clock, you are miserable for the first few days from 12 until 1 o'clock. After a few days, however, the habit of eating at 1 o'clock is established, and you do not think of hunger until that time. The stomach quickly gets in the habit of calling for food at a certain time, while if there is no established time for eating there is no established time for getting hungry. By fixing a definite time for bowel movement, and giving nature an opportunity at that time, the habit is as quickly and as firmly established as for getting hungry.

The brain—the seat of the will—is the nerve center wnich controls the whole being. When a finger comes in contact with a pin or a hot surface, the sensory nerves running from the finger to the brain carry to the brain the sensation of pain.
202

The brain then instantly sends back over the motor nerve* running to the muscles of the finger the command to move, and the finger is jerked away from the offending object in order to avoid injury.

It is entirely possible for a person to have a splinter pulled out or a boil opened without making a movement. The sensory nerves carry the message of pain to the brain all right, but the brain—the will—realising that it is necessary to remove the splinter or open the boil, even if it does hurt, refuses tc send back by the motor nerves the command to move.

They tell us that the native Indians were well trained to suffer pain without showing it or flinching.

The application of this illustration is this: When there is a certain amount of accumulation in the large intestine the sensory nerves carry the sensation of bulk to the brain, and indicate the need fcr evacuation. This message may reach the brain at some inconvenient time, when we are busy or what not, and the brain—the will—refuses to send back through the motor nerves the command to move. The message to the brain continues for a certain time, and then, failing to get any response, ceases. The desire has passed. Later, after ' continued failure to get responses, nature does not send the message upon the accumulation of the usual bulk at the usual hour, but waits until there is an extra bulk.

Thus, the condition goes on from bad to worse, until there is neither desire nor inclination. The colon becomes enormously distended, its muscle walls paralyzed and the patient is seriously ill.

Sitting quetly at stool for ten minutes each day at a definite, specified time of day, without straining, but thinking and encouraging the brain to send motor messages, will correct nine-tenths of the constipation. Quite commonly some intestinal stimulant in the form of a laxative may be necessary at first, but only until the regular habit is formed.

Bulk plays a vital part in avoiding constipation, and fodder—“roughness”—is just as essential for human beings as it is for stock. What would happen to your cow if you fed her only meal or grain, with never any fodder or grass? Exactly the same thing happens to persons who eat only concentrated foods that contain little bulk or residue. This fact is emphasized by seeing the cattle in the pasture and the cat or dog. The cow in the pasture is a stranger to constipation, while the cat eating only meats and concentrated foods, knows nothing else.

“Patent,” extra bolted, flour is not only robbed of much of its essential food elements, but is also robbed of all of the bran. Whole wheat flour is a much more complete food, and at the same time is one of the very best laxatives. So, also, are all bulky vegetables, which, as a general rule, are necessary, if one wishes to be free of constipation.
263

Finally, we wish to repeat that the great majority of all constipation is habitual and can be corrected, by the individual himself, by conscientious attention to regular habits and by eating abundantly of vegetables which leave considerable residue, and drinking freely of liquids. On the other hand, we do not wish to be understood as saying that all constipation is purely functional nor that all habitual constipation can be easily corrected.

What seems at first impression to be a purely functional disorder or a “nervous” disturbance may sometimes be found to be a beginning arteriosclerosis, chronic nephritis, dementia praecox, or some other serious affection.

Be that as it may, regular habits and proper diet are always in order and should be carefully considered in every case. If they correct a habitual constipation, the end has been accom-

Efished. If there is some one of these other conditions at the ottom of the trouble, then the correcting of bad habits and faulty diet has gone a long way in the treatment of these other conditions.

There are those who maintain, with considerable justification, that constipation, with its resultant auto-intoxication, is a powerful factor and often the only factor causing some cases of chronic nephritis, arteriosclerosis, and various mental upsets.

There are doctors with a national and international reputation who in extreme cases have by surgery removed the colon, for the purpose of getting rid of this reservoir of infection, in mentally sick patients and in epileptics, with the result that such patients have receovered from such illness. This can only be explained on the ground that the constipation was the prinary cause of the disturbance, and that by removing the cause the resultant symptoms disappeared.

There is one fact upon which all physicians are agreed, and that is that many times more people are troubled with constipation than any other one disease. Correcting this trouble will prevent more headache, more hemorrhoids (piles), and more general complaints than by correcting any other one thing.

—North Carolina Health Bulletin.

THE LOUISVILLE TURNFEST

Every four or five years the American Turners appear before the public in the form of a national festival. During the festival all the forms of activities fostered by the individual societies of this organization are presented in a finished form. Beginning at seven o'clock in the morning and lasting until eleven o’clock at night one activity follows another with bewildering rapidity. As a rule many activities are going on at the same time on an enormous athletic field, or in several different parts of the city,

Digitized by

Google
264

so that an interested observer must choose~the activity that appeals to him most, and then see that he is at the place where this activity is being conducted. To master this amount of competitive and exhibition work over 200 judges were appointed, these men and women officiating at the place and the time that was designated in an intricate work plan covering 56 printed pages.

Many teachers of physical education got their first news of the fact that this great Turnfest had taken place at Louisville, Ky. in June through the moving pictures that showed parts of the great event. For five days over two thousand five hundred men and women from all parts of the United States took part in the greatest physical training event that this country has seen for years. Months ago Mind and Body called attention to the fact t' at if the advocates of rational physical training and of athletics for women and for men wanted to see a demonstration of value that they should not miss the Louisville Turnfest.

The “Model Exercises” presented at this festival were an outstanding feature that was greatly appreciated by the thousands of spectators and physical education experts. We are happy to state that descriptions of these wonderful compositions and drills will be printed in “Mind and Body” during the coming year.

In the following four pages we present numerous pictures of Turnfest events. For the pictures we are indebted to Dr. Robert Nohr, Sr. of Cincinnati.

Judging by the comments of competent observers who have been participants or judges at national festivals for more than thirty years, the Louisville festival ranks high among the successful national festivals of the Turners. There appears to be a distinctly visible upward trend in the quality of the work presented by the participating societies. What gave the Louisville festival an aspect that was unique was the free mingling on the athletic fields of the thousands of men and women participants, the evidences of good comradeship among the two sexes, and the absence of any incident that might be construed by the most cautious as being of a demoralizing character. The Turners have a right to be proud of the Louisville Turnfest. Its good effects will be felt in all parts of the country.

Digitized by CaOOQle
MODEL EXERCISES, LOUISVILLE TURNFEST

MODEL EXERCISES. LOUISVILLE TURNFEST
.—The Field on Churchill Downs. 2.—16 Volleyball Courts. 3.—The Electrical Timinf Device.

Digitized by

Google
269

PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIEN

D. M. F. KROGH, 1L D.

Physical Aptitudes. There is a growing tendency in this country to consider health one of the foremost objectives of education, taking its place with, or perhaps even surmounting, the consideration of mental development and social progress. It is not easy to define the end sought. To consider health in terms of mere freedom from disease falls far short of the ideals of the educational ambitions of the present day. A more adequate and satisfying definition of health pictures it as “the quality of life that renders the individual fit to live most and to serve best.”*

Physical competence plays an important part in the sort of health fitness that is here portrayed. Inevitably there is a demand for some mode of measurement that is applicable to educational schemes, so that the degree of attainment can be evaluated. This is true in the routine of school work where mental tests of one sort or another form part of the regimen. It is likewise expected nowadays with respect to the physical fitness of the adolescent. If it is true that the ideal method of testing intellectual achievement is not yet in sight, what shall be said regarding examinations in the field of physical competence?

Strength and endurance determined in combat or competitive sport are far from satisfactory measures of promising physique. A group of physiologists** at Guy’s Hospital in London have properly pointed out that physical fitness is relative and does not necessarily mean good physique; the efficient performance of work involves the interaction of all the systems of the body. The argument that the condition is so complex and the power of adjustment so great that no single measurement can be an infallible guide scarcely needs further emphasis. The British writers remind us that one man may be physically efficient for a definite piece of work under certain conditions, such as temperature and moisture of the air, which would not suit another equally healthy man. There is an individuality in all men, each having an optimum of speed and environment.

The difficulties in the way of attempting to bring about uniformity are seen in the actual tests made on students in London. Of the familiar procedures, vital capacity proved to be an unreliable index despite the claims of Dreyer and his followers. Efficient respiration, so the criticism reads, is not determ-

*1. Williams, J. F.; Personal Hygiene Applied, Phila. W. B. Saunders. Comp., 1925, p. 20.

*•2. Hambly, W. D.; Pembrey, M. S., and Warner, E. C.: The Physical Fitness of Men Assessed by Various Methods, Guy’s Hosp. Rep. 75s 388 (Oct.) 1926.

Digitized by t^oooLe
270

ined alone by the capacity or mobility of the chest and lungs: the process involves the coordination of pulmonary ventilation with the activity of the heart, the circulation and the oxygen capacity of the blood—factors that cannot be determined by the spirometer. Estimations of pulse pressure, of ability to hold the breath and of related performances have obvious limitations. Comparisons of the pulse rate at rest and after exercise seem to give the best single indication of physical fitness. The reasons are, perhaps, not far to seek. The circulatory pump, the heart, must be adjusted to the needs of the body. Its efficacy represents an adaptation of both nervous and muscular control to bodily needs; yet there are persons in whom the heart is far better developed than the skeletal muscles.

The conclusions of Hambly, Pembrey and Warner* * will provoke thoughtful consideration even if they do not invite approval. To them there appears to be no real test for physical fitness for every and any kind of occupation other than the old method of trial and error. A man in perfect health, they remark, may be fit for one form of muscular work rather than another, and his capacity, which is predetermined by his ancestry and development, can be rendered manifset only by the repeated performance of the work in question. If all of us thus need to be placed “on trial,” as happens so commonly to the rank and file of human kind, it will assuredly be helpful to discover an “aptitude test” for physical performance. The psychologists are leading the way toward a similar goal in the field of mental equipment.

Editorial in the Journal M. A. March 27, 1926.

Euthenics. It has been argued that “the accomplishment of a true eugenic program will be the crowning work of the health movement and the grandest service of science to the human race.” But present woes demand consideration while we are contemplating future joys. The consequences of innumerable past events press on us; we must try to offset the discomfort or damage of “the heavy hand of the past” and likewise of the ever present menaces of the present. Furthermore— and this is less often adequately emphasized—we must attempt to capitalize omnipresent advantageous possibilities for the future, when opportunity knocks at the door. In matters of health this is sometimes described as an interest in hygiene, the discipline that teaches how to create for ourselves healthful conditions of living. However, human welfare contrasted, perhaps, with mere bodily well being involves a larger objective than individual or public health. It is not merely concerned with curative and preventive medicine; there is the added duty of man to better his conditions by availing himself of added knowledge already at hand. With this in mind, Ellen H. Richards selected the expression “euthenics” to describe “the betterment of living conditions, through conscious en-
271

deavor, for the purpose of securing efficient human beings." As a recent writer has added, this does not refer to the efficiency of the factory, which makes a man into a machine to turn out a specific product in the shortest possible time, but the efficiency of the thoroughly sound, highly trained mind in the thoroughly sound, highly trained body, which can accomplish the routine tasks of every day with the minimum of time and effort, leaving over a great store of energy for the additional duties and pleasures of an abundant life.

The contemplation of these purposes through academic training is by no means new. For many years the so-called home economics movement in this country has been concerned with aspects of the inclusive problem of how to live. At first the more purely material aspects of the subject—problems of food, clothing and shelter—were most stressed, until the training has extended its ramifications into the curriculums for women in all the state universities. There are indications that even the more conservative colleges for women are contemplating the transfer of emphasis in part from the subject to the object of study. Thus, Vassar College has lately given recognition to eugenics as a field for major study*. Properly enough, this has not called for new subjects of instruction, but rather a selection of topics. With some motivation of interest in them physiology, psychology, economics, poltical science, and even botany and zoology may contribute to the end. It already appears that the most popular combination for a “euthenics major” is that dealing with child welfare, for which the most important courses are child hygiene, child psychology, chemistry of food and nutrition, heredity, charities and corrections, and the family. In every case the courses chosen must have a common focus and must be preceded by training in the elementary sciences, with special emphasis on the general principles of physiology, psychology and economics.

There is no unanimity of opinion with respect to the principles of education. The stress on “practical" or “applied” courses will be debated by many with the contention that apprenticeship in everyday life affords the best training in vocational directions. It is a fact, however, that the traditional curriculum for women is changing. The growing power of women in the field of child health, child protection and child education must be recognized. Eugenics is supplementing hygiene. Professor Cockerell** has recently made a plea for something more than mere direct utilitarian concern with the resources about us:

Is our great undertaking to include simply the sources of food or shelter or clothing? Or if we include the flowers, is

•Madeod, Annie Louise: Euthenics at Vassar, I Home Economics 18: 119 (March) 1926

*’Cockerell, T. D. A.: The Duty of Biology, Science 63:367 (April 9)
272

it only because they can be eaten by cows, or because innocent people will sometimes buy them, and so give them commercial status? I do not so understand it. We live in a great and wonderful environment, to which we may react in a thousand ways. Broadly speaking, happiness comes through the harmonious exercise of our faculties. To be blind where we might see, callous where we might feel, dumb where we might speak—these are the great futilities, in the presence of which material wealth is of small account. Thus we must hold that our resources are only limited to those things which we can appreciate with our senses, and get some good by so doing. Wealth of this kind is so abundant that there is more than enough for all. No one can use more thana small part of it, but many minds and hearts, with a cofllmon purpose, may approach a grand synthesis which some genius will clarify and define. This is the manner of intellectual progress.

Editorial: The Journal M. A. May 29, 1926.

The Physiology of “Second Wind”. The effects of exercises of endurance are in some ways comparable to the influence exerted by certain types of disease on the body. When carried to excess, the exercises are accompanied, as McKenzie* has described the outcome, by acute constitutional exhaustion, shown in breathlessness, from which recovery is rapid; by fatigue of the whole nuscular system, from which a rest of a day or two is necessary, and by the chronic or nerve fatigue known as “staleness” among trainers, from which recovery may be a matter of weeks or even months. If the exercise is sufficiently active, the amount of waste material suddenly thrown into the circulation is greater than can be eliminated by the lungs. The beathing becomes rapid and shallow, the pulse quick and fluttering, and the person feels a sense of constriction around the chest; his head swims and throbs, and his face takes on the anxious expression so eloquently telling of the thirst for air. It is a familiar experience, particularly in the running of a race, that after some time the runner may become less distressed than at an earlier period. He is now said to have his “second wind,” and can usually continue running with comparative comfort. Varied explanations have been offered for this phenomenon of relief, apparantly representing a better equilibrium between the production of waste and its elimination. Thus it is suggested that, as a result of the production of metabolites in the contracting muscles, their vessels may be more dilated, so that the flow of blood through them becomes easier. There is an improvement of the pulse rate and decrease in the respiratory distress. With the advent of “second wind,” the urgency of breathlessness fades. The characteristic look of distress disappears from

*McKenzie, R. T.: Exercise in Education and Medicine, Philadelphia, W. B. Saunders Company, 1909

Digitized by LaOOQle
273

the face, the head becomes clear, and the muscles perform with renewed vigor and elasticity. A runner can then continue his exercise until he feels the symptoms of general fatigue. In observations made in the Department of Physiology of the University of Pennsylvania, Berner, Garrett, Jones and Noer have noted that the subjective sensation of “second wind” unquestionably comes earlier, the warmer the room conditions and the heavier the work done. The subjective sensations are confirmed by records of the respiratory changes, which show similar effects. The increase in the volume of air breathed with exercise occurs more rapidly in a warm than in a cold room. Neither of these variations appears to be dependent on changes in deep body temperature in the trunk, since at this time the rectal temperature is scarcely altered. As it has been demonstrated that the temperature of the muscles in the limbs is considerably below that of the rectum, the most reasonable hypothesis seems to be that the rate at which the muscle develops its full power to remove lactic acid is determined by its temperature, and that the temperature of the muscle reaches its optimum earlier when the metabolism is high with heavy work, or when the surrounding air is warm. Heavy clothing often facilitates the onset of second wind in vigorous exercise; hence warm weather may not be unfavorable to it.	J.	A.	M.	A.	June,	1926.

o——	 -■■■	■	<»

News, notes and comments

, i	■	----- —H'

Correction for page 252, this issue:

Lines 6 and 7 of Paragraph b., Page 252 should read as follows; physical education activities perfectly, and not consciously direct the character and disciplining responses in the activities. Such

Last summer at Elkhart Lake summer session of the Normal College of the A. G. U. the class in Organization, Administration, and Supervision worked out a course based upon projects selected by the members of the class. This course now has been mimeographed and consists of 80 pages of material (for physical education projects (such as playdays, field days, pageants, etc), of schedules, forms, diagrams, etc. The book is costing each member of the class $2-50, postage prepaid, per copy. Twenty additional copies have been made that may be purchased by non-class members at the same price. Readers of Mind and Body that wish to have a copy should send their money at once to W. A. Stecher, Grant Building, 17th and Pine streets, Philadelphia. Attention is called to an announcement made three years ago (of a different mimeographed course) for which most orders had to be returned to the senders be-cuase they came too late.

Digitized by kjOOQle
274

BOOK REVIEWS

"Educational Story Plays and School Room Games” by

Emily W. Elmore and Marie S. Cams. Published by A. S. Barnes & Co., New York. 142 pages, price $2.00.

The reviewer has always been very strongly convinced that story plays afford poor material for the needs of physical education. The Story Plays in this book, although of a higher quality than is frequently offered, give him no reason to modify his conviction.

The second part of the book contains some sixty-five School Room Games for Grades I to VIII which should serve as useful material on those days when the teacher is forced to give the physical training lesson indoors on account of inclement weather.

G.	W. Mueller.

"Gymnastics in Education,” William J. Cromie, Lea and Febiger, Philadelphia and New York, 1925. Cloth bound, 217 pages. Price $3.75.

The author “addresses this volume to instructors in high, preparatory, normal and grammar schools and colleges, who, not working under any given system, find themselves called upon to give instruction in such work.”

The book offers material in Gymnastic Tactics, Gymnastic Free Work, Calisthenics, Wands, Indian Clubs, and Heavy Apparatus, in • addition to a classification of Games and Relay Races.	—G. W. Mueller.

"An Exhibition Handbook”—A. S. Barnes Company, 1926. Paper bound, 80 pages. Price $1.00.

Contains descriptions of fifteen special demonstration numbers given at the American Physical Education Association Convention, 1926, by the school children of Newark, N. J.

A great variety of exhibition material is offered in this handbook most of which calls for at least a medium degree of ability. The reviewer was fortunate enough to witness the actual performance of all the numbers and feels no hesitancy in recommending the book to all who are looking for new material of this kind.	—Grover W. Mueller.

"Graded Games for Rural Schools” by Alfred E. Ross. Published by A. S. Barnes and Company, 1926. 57 pp. Price $.80.

The author has selected and grouped eighty-nine outdoor and indoor games in such a way as will be helpful to rural school teachers in the solution of problems created by insufficient space, size of class, age and sex of pupils. The reviewer feels that Mr. Ross has been successful in what he set out to accomplish.

Grover W. Mueller.

Digitized by t^ooQle
275

FOREIGN ITEMS OF INTEREST

International Association for Woman Sports.

This association held a meeting at Gotenburg, Sweden on Aug. 27 and 28. To the seven nations that formed the association, i. e. England, France, Italy, Sweden, Switzerland, Tsche-co-Slovakia, and Lettland, the following countries were admitted Germany, Japan, Austria, Poland, Luxemburg and Litan.

Rules were changed as follows:

1) All measurements shall be in meters.

2)	The shot put shall be with a 4 kilogram iron shot.

3) The longest dash shall be 200 meters.

4)	Handball shall be added to the games.

New international records that were approved were:

100 meter dash, Miss Wittmann, Berlin, 12.3 seconds.

Discus throw, Miss Reuter, Frankford, 38.34 meters.

Shotput, Miss Hanptlein, Hanover, 11.49 meters.

Relay race 4 times 100 meters (shuttle) Sport club, Berlin, 50.4 seconds.

Relay race 10 times 100 meters (shuttle) Sport club, Char-lottenburg 2 Min. 12.8 seconds.

International Federation of Amateur Swimmers

In conjunction with the European swimming contest at Budapest, the international swimmers federation held a meeting, the object of which was to regulate championship meets.

It was resolved to hold such meets every four years, midway between the Olympic festivals, except the meet already scheduled in Italy for 1927. The four year period shall begin with 1930, when the meet will be held in Belgium, which that year will celebrate its 100th anniversary as an independent nation.

Germany’s Preparation for the Next Olympic Games.

For some time efforts have been made to have a limited number of young men, who might be considered “Olympic material” meet in Berlin for a short training period. Over 100 persons applied for permission to take part in this course which was held on the sports fields of the University of Physical Education at Berlin. Of these applicants, 60 were selected, the selection being based on the information obtained when the application was submitted by their schools. These 60 young hopefuls were given a good practical as well as theoretical foundation during the training period, which lasted from July 12 to the 24th. The course was given by the teachers of the university schools

Digitized by f^.ooQLe
276

free of charge, while the railroad fare, board and lodging were paid by private persons and by municipal bodies.

Ferdinand August Schmidt of Bonn, Germany, one of the honorary members of the American Physical Education Association, on June 19th celebrated the fiftieth anniversaiy of his graduation as a physician. Dr. Schmidt was the recipient of many honors on that day from the city, the university, the boys and girls of Bonn whose play life he inaugurated and from the Tumverein whose president he has teen for 43 years. We add our good wishes to the man whose physiological articles have done so much to advance common sense physical education, play and sport.

A law that just has teen sutmitted for adoption in the state of Prussia makes it obligatory for cities to include in the city plans open spaces for small parks, playgrounds and athletic fields. There is every reason to suppose that the law will be passed.

To increase the number of teachers of physical education the Prussian Minister for Education decreed on July 3rd that hereafter teachers of commercial education shall also be admitted to the state normal school to receive additional training as teachers of physical education, play and sport.

During the last year over 200 proficiency badges were distributed by the national committee for physical education in Germany. The tests leading to the granting of badges are similiar to the athletic ability tests in use in the United States.

In the following we give the names of the swimmers of the English channel, the date of their crossing and the time.

H M.

G.	Michel (September 19,	1926) ...................... 11	5

H.	Vierkotter (August 30,	1926)........................12	30

N. J. Derham (September 17, 1926)	 13	57

Miss Gertrude Ederle (August 6, 1926) .................14	39

Mrs. Corson (August 28, 1926)..........................15	28

E. Tiraboschi (August 12,	1923).. .....................16	33

C. Toth (September 9, 1923) ...........................16	54

Captain W. Webb (August 25, 1875) .....................21	45

T. W. Burgess (September 6, 1911) .....................22	35

H.	Sullivan (August 6, 1923) ..........................27	23

In these days of compulsory tatting for those who do not bathe voluntarily, it is well to recall that at no great distant time bathing was looked upon as a very questionable habit. The following instances will serve to illustrate this.

Digitized by UaOOQle
277

At a housing conference in London held recently, Beatrix Lyall quoted the following from a gossip sheet of the time of good Queen Elizabeth:

“The Queen hath built herself a bath, where she doth bathe herself once a month, whether she require it or no.”

Amazing at the first gasp to us, but on second thought not so very surprising when we consider that the first bathtub in the United States was built in Cincinnati in 1842. It was made of mahogany, lined with sheet lead, and was exhibited at a Christmas party. The next day the local papers denounced it as a “luxurious and undemocratic vanity”. Then the medical men took the matter up, and pronounced this bathtub a menace to health.

In 1843 Philadelphia undertook by ordinance to prohibit all bathing between November 1 and March 15. Two years later Boston made bathing unlawful except when prescrined by a physician, and in Virginia about this time bathtubs were taxed $30 a year.

In Europe modern plumbing has come into use much more slowly than in our country, although the English have long been familiar with the portable tub made of rubber cloth, suspended on a frame, and capable of being rolled upon one’s travels. Yet our late Ambassador to Great Britain, in one of his letters said of the English: “They don’t really like bathrooms yet. They prefer great tin tubs, and they use bowls and pitchers when a bathroom is next door.”

■ ■ — - ■ ■■ ■ --------------- ---------------- —...,

G YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN D

PASS FOOTBALL

By Nathan Tolman, Ogden, Utah.

This game is not original, but I have worked it out from suggestions received here and there for some five or six years. My classes prefer it to “Speed ball” or “Soccer”. It is a sort of combination of football and basketball. It has all the vigorous exercise of football and is a passing, running, kicking game, with "interference” playing a part. The name Pass Football is taken from a game which appeared in Mind and Body some six or seven years ago. The two games are somewhat similar, but I consider this one much better and more suited to advanced pupils. To me, as a teacher in the Central Junior High School of Ogden, Utah, it fills a long felt need for a fall sport, inexpensive, that can be played and enjoyed from the fifth grade to college. The only equipment necessary is a football.

Digitized by CaOOQle
278

The Field—Minimum dimensions 25 by 60 yards; ideal 50 by 100 yards. The goal posts should be 24 to 18 feet apart and placed in the center of the end lines, or goal lines.

For grades below the eighth, the cross bar should be 8 feet above the ground; above the eighth, 10 feet.

The Ball—Regulation football.

Players—Official number 11 on a side; but 5 to 20 may be used satisfactorily.

Duration of Game—It shall consist of four quarters 12 minutes long, with a 2 minute rest at the end of the first and third quarters and 10 minutes between halves.

Officials—A referee who follows the ball, assisted by an umpire who watches offside holding, etc. Officials’ rulings are final.

Scoring—A drop kick going over crossbar and between goal posts scores one (1) point, a touchdown five (5) points.

Out of bounds—Ball is out of bounds if it touches side lines or ground outside of side lines, or if a player with the ball in his

Eossession does either. The ball is returned from out of bounds y the team causing it to go out (except on a kick or on a pass when passing is the only method of advancing ball) by a pass to a team mate as in basketball.

Offside—A player is offside if he is in front of ball when his side kicks or if he is closer than 5 yards when opponents are kicking or punting. On the “kickoff,” to start game, and after a score is made, the receiving side must be closer than 10 yards.

Kicks and Punts are free, i. e., the kicker must not be molested while kicking.

The Game

The winner of the toss shall have choice of goals or kickoff. After a score is made the losing side shall choose to kickoff or receive. Goals shall be changed at the beginning of the second half. Game is begun by a kickoff from 10 yards back of the center of field. After any kick, the kicking side cannot play the ball until the other side has played it. If the ball is caught after a kick it is advanced by running or passing until the ball is intercepted, or a player is touched with the ball in his possession, or the ball is grounded; then it can be advanced only by passing without progress, as in basketball. If it is not caught, it is advanced the same as when a player is touched with the ball by the player recovering it or being touched. If a ball is grounded after a team has had to start passing only, it then must be kicked to opponents.

A drop kick for field goal may be attempted at any time or place by the man in possession of ball.

When ball is intercepted it is advanced, as after a kick is caught.

Digitized by kjOOQle
279

The ball may be passed in any direction.

On a try for field goal, if the ball clears the crossbar but is caught, it does not score, and it may be then run back, as on any part of the field after a “catch”. The same may be done with a punt caught behind the goal line.

If the ball is grounded after a team has had to begin passing onlp it must be kicked to opponents by the last possessor of the

SOCCER FOOTBALL FOR GIRLS

Henry S. Curtis.

Director Hygiene and Physical Education for Missouri.

Soccer is undoubtedly the most popular game in the world. It is the National game of fifty different countries and is estimated by English authorities to be played by fifty million people. As such, it has a place in the development of international understanding and good feeling. It is the basis on which the creed of the Sportsmanship Brotherhood is built.

Our theory has always been that girls should not play football. Undoubtedly so far as American Football is concerned, our point of view is correct. Physical training for girls should give grace, suppleness and agility, a symmetrical form and abounding vitality but it should not produce great masses of muscles or unusual physical strength. Girls must be more careful to avoid strains and injuries than boys. The great danger of American football is in the head-long tackle where contestants running in opposite directions may attain a combined speed at the moment of encounter of a hundred yards in five seconds or forty-five miles an hour. Girls must avoid the kind of injuries which come from the shock of the tackle and being thrown with force.

Soccer, however, is a very different game from American football in that there is no tackling. It is a very vigorous game, probably representing the best all around exercise of any game played. It should be adjusted to girls by limiting the size of the field, and by requiring girls rules. Girls should avoid brest-ing the ball as men do, but otherwise it does not represent any considerable danger. In men’s games, soccer is usually played with heavy shoes and shin guards. In the girls’ games tennis shoes are usually worn so that no serious injuries are caused even if shins are kicked.

The paramount need in the physical education of women is the development of the abdominal muscles. Soccer is the only game which has any particular value in this direction. As such it has a definite place in the training of girls.

As compared with hockey, soccer represents much the same type of exercise and training. But hockey is a very expensive game that can be played only on a rather large field that is in

Digitized by VjOOQle
280

nearly perfect condition and relatively free of interference. On the other hand the equipment for soccer costs very little and it can be played on almost any sort of a field of almost any size. It does not matter greatly even if other children run across the field.

Soccer also has the advantage that it may be begun at an early age. It is compulsory in the preparatory schools of England for boys from the time they are eight years old, and has always proven popular. The great difficulty in getting the game started in America is that there are so few competent coaches, and competition, thus far, has been so limited that it does not bring the glory that accrues to a winning team in football or basketball. It always takes time to get a new game started, and a good deal of official promotion is often required.

Soccer is compulsory in about half the high schools for girls in England. We have introduced it into our training schools in Missouri beginning with the fifth grade. It has proved more popular with the girls, than with the boys. We have had no reports of injuries.

Of course, it is possible to have injuries in soccer. It should not be played by girls as an inter-school game, but for the genuine sport and exercise for all, it has few rivals.

MODEL EXERCISES FOR A CLASS OF MEN AND WOMEN

Presented at the Louisville Turnfest by the Concordia Turnverein, St. Louis, Mo.

Arranged by Otto Eckl

. . J Tarantell Napolitana.

!lc: ( La Danza by Rossini. (Arr. by E. Ritter).

Played as follows

Forty nine bars of music precede the music that is used for this number; the last four measures of the music serve as introduction, that preceding being omitted. There are two counts to a measure and when more counts are given more measures are implied.

1..	Play introduction (as described above) .................4M

2..	A strain of sixteen measures.

3..	A strain of eight measures which is repeated.

5.	A strain of twenty measures.

6	A strain of sixteen measures.

7	. Then eight measures, the eighth measure being the first ending to this strain, repeat these eight measures but use the second instead of first ending making the part repeated eleven instead of eight measures.

Digitized by v^ooQle
281

8. Repeat all as listed above but omit the four measures introduction.

Starting formation: A front line of men on the L and one of women on the R of the field, each line counted off to 4s—the men from the R end and the women from the L end.

Introduction!

Stride sideward toward leader and raise corresponding arm sidew, turn head in same direction

(dressing line and taking distance)............ 2	M-	4	Cts

Return to position ...........................  2	M-	4	Cts

PART I

A Run 6 steps forward (toward each other) forming one line having evaded R, then 2 running

steps in place................................  4	M-	8	Cts

B Lunge L forward swinging arms foreupward Swing arms foredown and back

Repeat the arm swinging two more times	3	M-	6	Cts

C Face R about on L heel, closing R ft. to L and bend arms upward

Jump to straddle stand and straighten arms upward ......................................     1	M-	2	Cts

D Slow trunk lowering forward (finger tips should

touch floor) ..........................................2 M- 4	Cts

Return (in half the time) ............................ 1 M- 2	Cts

E Jump to position swinging arms foredownward Layout back R, swing arms obi. forward grasping inner hand of the two opposite .................1	M-	2	Cts

F Rise sharply to a balance stand frontways on L

foot and hold.........................................  7	Cts

Release hands and lunge R forward and place R hand round rear of corresponding number of opposite line (other hand at waist) ............  4	M-	8	Cts

G Straighten R knee and hop 8 times on R ft. in mill wheel R (finish in single line, men and women facing opposite) .............................  4	M	8	Cts

H All No. 1 step forward L, kneeling R hands on floor (on your mark) and hold Nos. 2, 2 running steps forward and assume the Discobolas position and hold Nos. 3, 4 running steps forward then place L foot in direction of run, facing R and assume shot put position and hold Nos. 4, 6 steps forward then step L forward and take attitude of one finishing

a race and hold............................... 4	M-	8	Cts

I All hold for...........................................4 M- 8	Cts

J All begin with L foot, Nos. 4 running in place,

the rest assemble forward in 8 running steps...4 M- 8 Cts

Digitized by v^ooQle
282 PART II

A All face L about and run 8 steps toward each

other forming single line facing opposite directions 4 M-8 Cts. B The four men on the R wheel L about the center with the four girls on the opposite side (1-2 wheel in sixteen running steps)

At the same time the four men on the L 1-2

wheel R with four girls on opposite side........8	M-16	Cts

C All 1-4 wheel L about the center in 8 running

steps ..........................................4	M- 8 Cts

Note: The 4 girls on the L of the girls line and the 4 boys on the L end of the boys line face about to do this, thereby all having their L shoulders toward center)

D Those who faced left about to perform previous wheel face L about again so boys and girls are again facing in opposite direction and all lunge forward L and repeat B, C, D, E, F, G, of No. 1 8 M-16 Cts E All 1-8 wheel L about center in 4 running steps

to following pose and hold .....................2	M- 4 Cts

F The inner one of each set of 4s face towards center, stepping on L foot, arms sideward, grasping hands, forming square (picturing again the finish of race.)

Second from center place L foot toward center and

assume attitude of shot putter

Third from center, the discus thrower, facing

center.

Outside one face center, placing L foot back and kneel left,

On your mark ...................................2	M- 4 Cts

PART III

All, in eight running steps, run to following

positions......................................4	M-	8	Cts

Is—4men—preferably the tallest, run toward the center forming a circle placing hands on each others shoulders, firmly grasping each other, on the 8th count jump to straddle stand with knees bent.

2s—4 girls—preferably the shortest ones, run in the spaces between the four men just outside the little circle formed; on the eighth count they jump with heels together, placing hands on the crossed arms in front of them.

3s—the remaining four men run to places directly behind 2s, jumping to stride stand, R forward on Ct. 8 placing hands firmly at waist of 2s.

4s—remaining girls, who run 8 steps directly behind Is.

Digitized by VjOOQLC
283

B	Is—hold position

2s—jump upward in the stride stand, standing on the thighs of Is and hold position with hands

on the arms in front of them......................... 4	Cts

3s—Lift 2s to the position described above, Ct 1 and hold Ct. 2; on count 3 with hands still at waist of 2s layout left backward and hold.

4s—layout left back on count 1 and hold ........2	M-	4	Cts

C 2s bend far backward, raising arms to fifth, Ct 5

and hold, supported at wrist by 3s..............2	M-	4	Cts

4s—balance stand right, supporting Is, Ct 5 and hold

D All hold...........................................2	M-	4	Cts

E 2s straighten trunk, placing hands on arms in

front; the rest hold............................1	M-	2	Cts

F 2s jump back to stand, Ct 7, assisted by 3s, who close L to R, Ct 8 4s close L ft to R Ct and hold 8

Is jump to position Ct. 8.......................1	M-	2	Cts

G In 8 running steps all move backward, the men forming in circle by grasping each other firmly at the shoulder and kneeling R on the 6th ct. and hold

The girls run just outside circle, between men, hands supporting on crossed arm, bending the knees deep on 6th ct and hold...................4	M-	8	Cts

PART IV

A

B

C

The girls slide forward to hand lying, suspended

from the men’s arms .............................1	M-	2	Cts

Return swing to starting position................1	M-	2	Cts

The men straighten R knee assuming lunge position Ct. 5 and hold;

The girls straighten R knee swinging L leg back to balance stand frontways supporting on men’s

arms, Ct. 5 and hold.............................2	M-	4	Cts

The men starting R foot, a three step turn R moving backward away from circle and place the L foot in back of the R, assuming the position of the discus thrower facing the center, 4 cts. and hold Cts.

At same time the girls, who are divided into Is and 2s, do the following: Is step L and R toward center of circle, Ct 1, and with arms sideward grasp> each other’s hands, forming a square in the attitude of finishing a race and hold.

2s face R placing L foot sideward toward center of circle, bending R knee in attitude of shot putter and hold.....................................4	M-	8	Cts

Digitized by

Google
284

D Men are counted off to Is and 2s.

Nos 1, men, face L and step R toward center of circle with arms extended forward Ct. 1 and hold Nos. 1, girls, face L releasing their hands and tour jete outward (flying turn L) into the arms of Nos. 1 men (the girls lie in the men’s arms, face down, body well arched, arms sideward, feet crossed; the men support the girls with L arm under knee R arm across chest.

Nos. 2 men place L foot toward center with R knee bent, body facing R, arms folded in front, elbows raised with an opening between arms and chest, ct 1 and hold.

Nos. 2 girls face R toward Nos. 2 men and take 3 running steps, starting L, and leap R with R knee thoroughly bent, the bent knee alighting in the folded arms of Nos. 2 men, in the position L leg extended high back, body well arched, R arm extended forward, L back, 4 cts and hold ... 4 M- 8 Cts

E Hold for 6 more cts...............................    3 M- 6	Cts

F The girls are lowered to a stand......................1 M- 2	Cts

G All run 6 steps, forming circle, facing inward with

hands grasped ................................3	M-	6	Cts

PART V

A Men run to center in 8 running steps Nos. 1 forming circle with grasping each other at shoulder jumping to straddle stand, on Ct 7 and hold Nos. 2, just outside circle between Nos. 1, placing hands on thighs of Nos. 1, and layout R back on Ct 8.

Girls, Nos. 1, a 3 step and knee swing hop L toward center, body bent forward and arms low to

side and back, on hop.................................. 4	Cts

Hop 4 times on L foot extending R leg back with

raising and arching body, arms fifth stretched....	4	Cts

Nos. 2, face L about and go away from circle and do same, but with body raised on knee swing hop, arms fifth and 1 hops with body lowered forward in balance stand, the arms sideward and slightly

back.............................................. 4	M-	8	Cts

B Two of Nos. 2, just opposite each other, hand stand Ct 1, and hold. The other two hand stand Ct. 5 and hold.

Girls. Nos. 1 step R back circling L arm thru first to fifth to second, 2 cts. Step L forward circling R arm—2 cts; lunge R back circling arms and trunk to R—4 cts finishing on R foot arms second.

Nos. 2. As 1 but the lunging and trunk circling

first, then stepping L forward and R back—8 cts 4 M -8 Cts

Digitized by

Google
285

C Men hold position 6 more cts. Handstands down

on Ct. 7 all position Ct. 8....................

Girls face L about and repeat A of this step, going forward to each other in a single circle—8 cts

facing in and out .............................4	M-	8	Cts

D All with eight running steps run into a star wheel L, as follows. Tallest 4 girls forming inside of wheel; tallest men next, etc. members should be

arms length distance from center ..............4	M-	8	Cts

E 1-4 star wheel L in 32 running steps ...........16	M	32	Cts

F The two men of each rank face and run toward each other with two running steps and lunge L forward hands on floor, 4 cts.

Outside girls run from rear between the two boys with L shoulders toward center of circle, 4 run-ing steps

Inside girl run directly in rear of other girl, 4 running steps

Men hand stand Ct. 5 and hold..................2	M-	4	Cts

G First girl catches man to R; rear girl man to L

and then supports both at knee, 4 cts .........2	M-	4	Cts

H First girl stands on necks of boys grasping ankles

Cts 1-4 and hold 5-12 .........................6	M-12	Cts

I First girl jumps to stand, Cts 5-6

Hand stands down, Cts 7-8 .....................2	M-	4	Cts

J In 8 running steps all run to position in column of fours in open order with alternate files of men and girls: jump to straddle stand on 8th count, arms down..........................................4	M-	8	Cts

PART VI

A With arms relaxed, swing arms vigorously to L with slight twisting of body to L. Ct. 1

Swing to R, to L, to R .............................2 M- 4	Cts

B Double arm circle R, 4 times  ........................2 M- 4	Cts

C Repeat A and B, finish eighth count, jumping with

heels together, arms upward....................4	M-	8	Cts

PART VII

A Men a slow bending of both knees with a downward pulling of the arms, with muscles tense, 4 cts.

Girls with L hand in third, capriol L forward (hopping R striking the free straight L leg fifth in front) 4 times moving L ob. backward to position behind men, 4 cts ......................2	M-	4	Cts

B Men slowly extend R leg sideward sliding foot on floor with a slow pushing movement of the arms sideward—4 cts Girls moving obi forward to other side of men, tour saute L, (step close and step L, hopping L, swinging R leg forward in direc-

Digitized by
286

tion of movement, 1-2 turn left in air alighting on L foot with R extended backward) finishing facing

men in attitude arms f fth..........................2 M- 4	Cts

C Men face sharply L facing girls swinging R arms upward and both arms fore downward and sideward, straightening L knee to balance stand frontways Count 1 and hold, Cts 2 and 3.

Girls lower trunk to balance stand, arms sideward and hold, cts 2 and 3.

Men face front with closing R foot to L and a

3-4 double arm circle outward to position arms upward, Ct 4. At same time girls raise trunk, place R foot forward, circle arms outward to position R hand in third .......................2	M-	4	Cts

D Reverse all of A, B and C, finishing facing front

in original position, arms upward ............6	M-12	Cts

PART VIII

A With a quick heel raising and lowering bend the arms to thrust, Ct 1.

Repeat the foot movement and thrust upward,

Ct2

Repeat, three more times, finishing eighth count jumping to side straddle stand, arms upward....4 M- 8 Cts B Bend forward, grasping ankles firmly quickly bending and straightening arms, pulling trunk toward legs (double hamstring stretching) Ct. 1 Repeat 6 more times.

Jump, heels together swinging arms foreupward

Ct 8	 4	M-	8	Cts

C Repeat A-B but finish in straddle stand, arms upward ............................................. 8	M-16	Cts

PART IX

A Men. bend trunk forward relaxed swinging arms foredown and back Ct. 1.

Arch trunk swinging arms foreupward Ct. 2 Relax and slap the floor, Ct 3.

Straighten trunk, swing arms foreupward, Ct. 4 Repeat those 4 cts.

Girls slow trunk lowering forward with arms upward, finger tips touching floor, 4 cts.

Then straighten slowly 4 cts..............    4	M-	8	Cts

B Men and girls reverse movement of A and on

Ct. 16 jump to position...................... 8	M-16	Cts

PART X

A With 8 running steps run to following positions:

1 Girl and 1 man to center of the column, girl in front of man, L shoulders to front.

5 men to a circle (around the couple mentioned

Digitized by Google
287

above) with hands grasped, arms extended, facing inward.

5 girls just outside- the circle, in the spaces be tween the men.

One couple to L and to R of circle, girl standing

in front of boy both facing circle ...............4	M-	8	Cts

B Circle of men, layout L back.

Circle of girls, kneel L arms in first body bent slightly forward.

The couples, men kneel on knee which is toward front; the girl places foot on knee of man, he grasping her firmly at the knee.

Center couple, man places hands at her waist,

die bends knees preparatory to jump upward .......2	M-	4	Cts

C Circle of men rise to balance stand frontways Circle of girls bend trunk backward, supporting on hands and arms of men Couples—girl rises to balance stand on knee of man.

Inner couple, she jumps upward, he throws her upward catching her at the small of her back on R hand over head, with his left he grasps her at her L knee, she raises her knee, turned outward with R foot at L shin, body is thoroughly arched

head back, arms fifth.............................2	M-	4	Cts

D All hold to end of music.

MAT EXERCISES AND STUNTS

Arranged by Mathias H. Macherey, Asst. Supervisor of Physical Education, Newark, N. J.

(Ed. Note. It is intended to publish in Mind and Body during the ensuing year graded courses in “Mat Exercises (tumbling) and Stunts” for BoyB and Girls.

The lessons have been arranged for grades, six, seven and eight of the elementary and Junior High Schools by Mathias H. Macherey, Supervisor of Physical Education of the Newark, N. J. Public Schools, where under the direction of Randall D. Warden this form of activity for several years has been an important part of the course of study.

Each grade has lessons for three sections, as each gymnasium class is supposed to be divided into three ability groups or sections, the organization of which is determined by the degree of vigor and skill each pupil pos-

The work for section one is held simple, but preparatory and developing in nature, as this section is made up of children who are slow, weak over fat and otherwise abnormal.

Section two, being formed of pupils of normal average physical charac* teristics is assigned exercises which are within their reach, yet taxing enough to call for full application of all their physical and mental qualities.

Digitized by L^ooQle
Section three, constituted predominantly of the vigorous, active, clever supernormal type of children, goes with greater abandon into the mastering of the work assigned to the previous classifications. In addition their course calls for exercises of increased difficulty, providing quick progression and a large variety of material.)

FIRST LESSON

GRADE 6	SECTION	ONE

1..	Stand on mat. Kick right foot backward, catch right instep with right hand, outergrasp. Raise left arm forward. In this position hop forward until off the mat. Opposite.

2..	Kneel. Walk forward while kneeling. Stand.

3..	Hands on hips. Trunk circling. Bend trunk forward, sideward, backward, forward and continue three times. Opposite.

4..	Bend knees, hands on hips. Jump forward, knees bent, to end of the mat.

5..	Hold right arm forward, shoulder high. Kick right leg forward to touch outstretched right hand. Opposite. With feet closed consecutive standing broad jumps off the mat.

GRADE 6	SECTION	TWO

1..	Kick right foot backward, catch right instep with right hand, outergrasp, raise left arm forward. Bend and stretch left knee. Position. Opposite.

2..	Roll forward to stand. Circle arms back upward and forward, downward, bend trunk forward, grasp ankles. Walk forward off the mat.

3..	Squatstand with knees closed, hands on floor outside of knees. Stretch knees without raising hands off the floor. Bend and stretch knees again. Stretchstand. With high kicks forward off the mat; alternate right and left.

4..	Hands on hips. Trunk circling right and left. Bend trunk forward, sideward, backward, forward and position. Opposite. Roll forward to stand.

5..	Kneel. Jump forward while kneeling. Kneejump.

GRADE 6	SECTION	THREE

1..	Kick right foot backward, catch right instep with right hand, outergrasp, raise left arm forward. Bend left knee more and more each lesson, so that finally the right knee may touch the floor. Stretch left knee. Position. Opposite. (This may be done en masse)

2..	Kneel, hands behind back, Bend trunk forward, touch mat with crown of the head. Return. Arms forward. Jump on knees. Swing arms backward and forward with knee jump to stand. With high kicks off the mat.

3..	Kneel. Arms diagonally side downward. Bend trunk backward as far as possible. Return. Fall forward to support lying position, knees off the mat. Jump feet forward to
289

straddlestand (raise hips, legs apart, Keep hands on mat). Swing arms fore-upward, stretch trunk. Bend trunk, touching floor with hands. Jump to position.

4..	Roll forward to stand. With feet closed, consecutive standing broad jumps off the mat.

FIRST LESSON GRADE 7	SECTION ONE

1..	Jump to straddle-stand, left hand on hip, right arm fore-upward. Bend trunk forward, slightly bend knees, swing rifflit arm down and backward between legs to touch floor with fingers, as far back as possible. Return. Repeat with knees entirely straight. Opposite.

2..	Kneel on right knee, stretch arms upward. Bend trunk backward, Return. Stand. Trunk circling. Opposite.

3 - Bend knees, hands on hips, hop forward three steps. Hands on mat, walk hands forward to support lying position. Walk off mat in this position.

4..	Roll over forward to stand. Bend trunk forward, extend arms backward. With stiff knees and bent trunk, walk off the mat.

GRADE 7	SECTION TWO

1„ Roll forward to kneel. With hands behind back bend trunk backward. Return. Bend trunk forward until crown of head touches mat. Place hands on mat. Raise knees off the mat, extend legs. Roll over forward to stand.

2..	Raise arms and right leg forward, bend left knee. Return. Change feet and arms. Repeat. With high kicks alternately right and left off the mat.

3..	Jump to far straddle stand with arm swinging fore-upward. Bend truck forward, hands grasp ankles. Stretch trunk and swing arms fore-upward. Repeat trunk bending. Place back of head on mat. Roll over forward to stand.

4..	With feet slightly apart. Swing arms fore upward and bend trunk backward. (First moderately, then increase the dis-ance more and more each week.) Bend trunk forward, place hands on mat. With stiff knees walk off on all fours.

GRADE 7	SECTION THREE

1..	Roll forward to sit. Quickly draw in feet, lean forward with upper body, push arms forward and stand (Without touching hands to mat if possible.)

2.. Roll forward to stand. Kneel. Prone lying, elbows resting on floor, chin resting on hands. Raise alternate leg backward and return. Change to support lying position. Jump feet to squatstand, hands on hips. In squatstand walk off the mat.

3..	Roll forward to sit. Lower backward to lying, swing legs foreupward to touch toes to mat beyond head. Return and stand without assistance of hands, as in 1.

4..	With feet slightly apart, swing arms fore-upward and bend trunk backward (First moderately, then increase the dis-
I

PUBLISHED IN OCTOBER

A Brie! History oi Physical Education

By EMMET A. RICE, A. M. Normal College American Gymnastic Union, <£Q AA Indianapolis. Profusely illustrated. 8vo, cloth.	Price $m.vA/

In this volume the History of Physical Education is treated—First as a great movement co-existent with civilization itself; Second, with those facts which explain a modern problem or add to the appreciation of a modern movement; Third, as the result of several years oi class work experience, and Fourth, as a text for the student, and not as a source of lectures for the instructor.

Every Instructor in the History of Physical Education should examine this book before deciding on a text.

IN PRESS

tabling, Pyramid Bnilding and Stnnts FORWoMENand

By BONNIE and DONNIE COTTERAL.

Instructors in Physical Education, St. Joseph, Mo., High Schools. 12 mo. Illustrated. Cloth. Price $1.60.

The second volume in “Athletics for Women” series. The contents: The Volume of Tumbling	Springs	Balancing

The Teaching of Tumbling	Stunts	Pyramids

Rolling	Single,	Couple	and	Exhibition	Pointers

Supporting the Body Inverted Group Stunts, Exhibition Program

MEASURING MOTOR ABILITY A £?Jor

By DAVID K. BRACE, Ph. D.

Professor of Physical Education, University of Texas. Illustrated. 8vo. Cloth. Price $2.00.

The lack of any scientific measurement of motor ability and the hope of helping to supply this need has led the author to attack the problem of developing the Scale of Motor Ability Tests presented in this book.

The statistical procedures used in developing and validating the Scale of Motor Ability Tests are necessarily included in a book of this nature. Certain achievement tests in athletic game skills are included for purposes of clarifying some of the applications of the motor ability tests.

It is hoped that this Scale of Motor Ability Tests may assist physical educators in the classification of their pupils, in furnishing a basis upon which to evaluate achievements, and in gaining a better understanding of the motor side of human reactions.

Summary of Contents. Introduction: 1. The Tests and the Subjects. 2. Administering the Tests. 3. Determining Validity. 4. Determining Reliability and Objectivity. 5. Scaling the Tests. 6. Some Applications of the Scale of Motor Ability Tests. 7. General Summary. 8. The Test Booklet.

Send for our new illustrated 64 page catalogue of books on every phase of Physical Education

A. S. BARNES & COMPANY, Publishers

7 WEST 45th ST., NEW YORK

,

Digitized by v^ooQle