MIND AND BODY

Yol. 14.

OCTOBER, 1907.

No. 162

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boron Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, iao Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

HEART EXERCISE AND ACUTE HEART DILATATION.

The Professional Standpoint of Dr. Med. I BEN, Flensburg, discussed by Prof. Dr. Med. F. A.

SCHMIDT, Bonn.

(Translated by CARL L. SCHRADER.)

On November 22, 1906, Dr. Iben, the school physician of Flens-burg, sent the following letter to the school board:

“Last Monday I listened with great interest to gymnasium inspector Moeller’s lecture. Not mentioning several less faulty statements, more of a theoretical character, I should like to call attention to one point in particular. Mr. Moeller made use of a chart showing in concise figures the weight increase of the heart and dwelt upon the fact that between the ages of 13 and 17 it grew most rapidly; that for this reason it needed considerable exercise, such as in running, etc. I desire to take a decided stand directly opposed to this view.

Just because the heart is still in the developmental stage, an unfinished instrument as it were, it should not be taxed by exercise. The danger of acute heart enlargement is great, an evil from which the child may suffer for the remainder o/ life.

I beg you to circulate this view, which is shared by the entire medical world, to the gymnasium instructors, thus to circumvent the risk which the following of the lecturer's advice might bring about.”

Upon request of some Flensburg teachers to express my view upon the contents of Iben's letter I submit the following:

Two things are essential for the complete development of any organ during the period of growth:	First,	the inborn tendency of growth or

normal development in the respective organ, and, secondly, the growth stimuli obtained by the means of the exercise of the organs.

This is particularly true of the organs of movement or locomotion. No structure of the body possesses such energy of growth as does the cross striped musculature. While, for instance, the entire body weight of a male is increased 21 times from birth to full manhood, the weight of the muscles increases 37 times (H. Yierordt), and even as many as 40 to 41 times.

To avoid being misunderstood I must add that I do not mean an excessive or athletic muscular development. Normal development is

Digitized by

Google
-194-



only possible when regular and general muscular exercise was performed during the period of growth. The young man who does not exercise his muscles and at no time exerts them, remains weak and narrow chested, his muscles remain small, lax and flabby even during the state of contraction. They are easily fatigued even from little muscular efforts, and refuse to respond normally to every greater demand.

What is true of the cross striped motor muscles is also true of the heart muscles. The heart, too, requires the growth stimulus to gain resistive power, to render itself strong so that it may not only sustain the strain of the every day work of the body, preserve the equilibrium between demand and response, but may also stand the strain of even an unusual demand without injury. How important this requirement is in case of sickness also when, as in pneumonia, every chance of recovery depends upon the resistive power of the heart, I will mention only casually. In my opinion Mr. Moeller demands with sound reasoning that it is important to stimulate the growth of the heart just at the time when growth is most marked, to render it strong and efficient. This stimulation may be brought about by such exercises as tend to increase the heart activity, and, sometimes, even tax it to the limit without causing any strain of the heart muscles. Exercises of speed and also of low degrees of endurance make up the most desirable group of exercises. Running in its various forms, marching, mountain climbing, swimming and especially those games whose chkf value, as far as heart and lungs are concerned, consists of running.

We know from abundant actual experience that the heart grows stronger and more serviceable through such exercises just as the skeletal muscles gain strength through muscular activity. Active children will run long distances, play hard for hours and run for 10, 12 or 15 minutes without any sign of over-exertion. Only the untrained lad, who from fear and lack of judgment has been restrained from attending the gymnasium and playground, will suffer discomfort when he undertakes to do like his mates; he may show breathlessness combined with unusually rapid, weak and sometimes even interrupted pulse. These, however, are conditions which soon will adjust themselves, once the youth is at rest again.

It is needless to say that exercises for speed must be adapted to the ability of the individual Every experienced teacher knows this demand and I feel confident it is known and observed by a man like Mr. Moeller who has been devoting his life to the welfare of youth. If Dr. Then shared Mr. Moeller's experience he would not have been tempted to emphasize this theoretical claim when he says:	’’The heart must not be

taxed in any way during the developmental stage or while it is an ‘‘unfinished instrument.'’

“Unfinished instrument!" How plausible that sounds at first! But upon closer consideration it is a qualification wholly misleading. A boy of 14 still grows: he is only finished when he is an adult. His heart then will be a different one:	larger,	stronger,	laboring	with	greater	effort.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-li-

beralise in tlie adult the arteries are comparatively smaller. Now to the boy a prematurely “finished” heart would be of poor service. On the contrary, it is this “unfinished instrument” that is easily adapted and fully capable to the boy’s needs. In many respects it is much more capable than that of the adult—and especially in those forms of exercises which we consider as so very essential for our growing youth. I suggest that Dr. Iben make the following test. Let him race up several flights of stairs with a 14 year old lad. I wager 100 to 1 the boy will arrive happy, breathing perhaps a little heavier; but my worthy colleague will have lost his breath entirely, be unable to speak and experience a decided palpitation although he commands a “finished” and the boy only an “unfinished instrument.” Perhaps he may then appreciate that the heart of an adolescent youth is much more capable of such test speeds than that of the finished adult.

What to the untrained adult is* an encumbrance does not pVovo so to the growing boy. A healthy heart is “finished” at all ages for such demands as the possessor may justly impose upon it. This is not only true of the heart but of all the other organs of the human body.

But let us return to our discussion. We found that the heart of the growing youth was much more capable of performing exercises of speed, which Dr. Iben pronounced dangerous, than is that of the finished adult. I am, therefore, emphatic in denying the claim that Mr. Moeller’s prescribed heart exercises endanger the heart to the extent of enlargement. Did Dr. Iben ever have a case of heart enlargement come under his observation whose origin could be traced to the gymnasium or playground? I doubt it; and I doubt it as a physician who in his 25 years of service in Turnvereine, as teacher of the state gymnastic courses, as leader and promoter of playground courses and finally as school physician has concerned himself continually and earnestly just with these very things

In all this experience I can not recall a single instance of such a

case.

I further take objection to the statement of Dr. Iben that his views are shared by the entire medical world.

Even if an extended endurance race, if a strenuous game, if a mountain climb or a swimming competition really does bring about an acute over-straining of the heart in a healthy young man, it does not necessarily follow that this always means an injury for life. I deny that the above ever occurs on our playgrounds, where the supervision is competent. I call attention to the splendid research of Prof. 8 A. Ilcnsehen of ITpsala (Skilauf und Skiwettlanf, einc Medizinische Sportstudie. Jena 1899). I cite further a w’ork which has just appeared:	„Feber

Traumatische Entstehungen Innerer Krankheiten“, Dr. Richard Stern,

2.	Auflage, Jena 1907.

On page 141 in the chapter on ,,Akute Uebcranstrengung des Jferzens“ wre read:	“In	healthy	individuals	these	conditions	disappear

rapidly with the discontinuaton of the exertion.” “Fomerlv we were inclined to recognize an acute dilatation with every strain of the heart.

Digitized by C^ooQle
—1D6—

Lately, however, and principally upon Roentgen examinations it has become doubtful whether a healthy heart can become dilated becaus? of a maximum effort. Many authors are now convinced that a heart that shows signs of dilatation because of exertion was originally diseased.”

The “entire medical world” evidently does not share the views of Dr. Iben. In that expression he may include only those physicians who are not familiar with the physiological effects of the various exer-coses. I do not intend this as a reproof. Actually the profuse medical literature, both domestic and foreign, which concerns itself with these matters exhibits a peculiar unfamiliarity with the gymnastic world which fact may be easily recognized in many works on hygiene and even school hygiene. It may furthermore be witnessed in that many really able physicians are still prone to furnishing excuses for absence from gymnastic exercises, which fact certainly brings no honor to the medical profession

Let us listen to still another colleague who has applied himself to this special subject for several years and has made numerous investigations and tests with athletes at work. He made extensive examinations at the recent Olympic games at Athens. This authority i§ Dr. Smith of Berlin, a specialist in heart diseases.

Dr. Smith writes in his report: “In examining the various kinds of eports I found that some showed more tendencies toward enlargement of the heart, than others.”

“In general it seems that those kinds of sport tend most toward overtaxing the working capacity of the heart in which the body as a whole is not moved by its own power, such as rowing, cycling, swimming and apparatus exercises, w’hen the weight of the body is more or less supported by a boat, a wheel, the water, or is carried by utilizing the stiffening of the body (gymnastics) and the muscle groups are thus exerted independently of lifting or moving the body wreight from place. Furthermore endurance performances (marching or running of from 50 to 100 km.) prove severely injurious to the heart unless an unusual fitness or careful training render the performance easier. It seemed here as though the automatism of the movement which put in its appearance comparatively earlier in the game quasi blunted the feeling of the prevalent injury. In all athletes of the kind named below’ it was found in preliminary examinations that w’hen they had practiced the sport for a long time the heart wfas enlarged before the contest, and dilated still more while in action during the contest. The best hearts w’ere found in those athletes who followed the lighter forms (running, jumping, throwTing, etc*.), and a beneficial influence of these exercises upon the heart could be traced. In a few’ instances it w’as found that inherited dilated hearts w ere reduced in a relatively short time by these exercises. While, for instance, the average heart projection in 200 athletes was 87.17 cm., that of the followers of light athletics was 69.8, that of gymnasts 87.6, of cyclists 89.5, fencers 98, weight lifters 98.3 and of swimmers 99.5 cm.”

Thus the exercises of running, jumping, throwing, i. e. those which

Digitized by Google
-197-

make up the essential part of our games, according to the above proof beneficially influence the healthy heart and are said even to be capable of reducing a dilated heart to the normal size. Now, these are exactly the exercises which Inspector Moeller recommended for the development of the heart during adolescence and over which Dr. Iben ordered the signal of ‘"Warning, danger of acute heart dilatation,” to be hoisted.

There is, however, a serious aspect to this question which induced me to go so minutely into this Flensburg controversy. Namely, Mr. Moellers views concerning heart exercises during growth—which is not s}rnony-mous with over-exertion of the heart by any means—ar«; also views held by physicians who have given serious thought to this great educational question. If it is Dr. Iben’s desire to correct ihtse men—well and good!—Let him set out and try it, but not with such absurd phrases as ""unfinished instrument,” etc. Instead, he should frankly state which exercises are advisable at the ages from 13 to 17, and which are not; he should state how many seconds or minutes an instructor may allow his pupils to run; he should state whether he wishes play abolished during these ages because of its frequent and prolonged running, etc. But he d6es not. He simply sends this meagre expression of opinion to the school board and politely begs to circulate this view, shared by the ""entire medical world,” to the gymnasium instructors, to prevent the great injury which must follow the procedure suggested by the inspector. Thus the fatherland is once more saved in a simplest way.

What is the school board and a body of teachers to do with such an ukase? Supposing we grant to Dr. Iben the authority which he usurps to himself and strengthens by calling the ""entire medical world” to his aid. Well, there is left only the choice of the alternative. All forms ot running and, consequently, most games would have to be prohibited for the youth. For how is the threatened board or are the teachers to learn the boundary of the legitimate, and where begins the danger of acute heart dilatation?

True, a ministerial edict, dating from April 1890, especially recommends running as a part of gymnastic training and states verbatim: “The form of running to be considered most is the running for endurance.”

But when a school physician, and behind him the ""entire medical world,” suggests to the public mind that great and lasting danger lurks in this procedure, will not the school board and with it the teaching profession act most safely when it closes up the playground rather than encur this great responsibility?

In this case, however, the promotor of such a change, at this moment Dr. Iben, heaps upon himself a far greater responsibility. He becomes responsible for the harm which results from curtailing the healthful, developing exercises of our growing youth. Here, indeed, lurks ' an injury which may last a life time.

Now, in order to return once more to the ""heart enlargement.”—
—198—

v. hen, I ask, Dr. Iben, is there real danger for dilatation?—Answer: Whenever a' heart which is rarely exercised and, therefore, limp and v'eak is further weakened by alcohol, and when the stomach is being saturated by a large quantity of fluids, as e. g. by the excessive consumption of beer! Where are these young gentlemen in Germany who were formerly well and hearty and who have contracted an enlarged heart on the playground?—But, alas! Legion is the number of tho«e in our father-land who, shunning every exerting activity and exercise, look for their recreation on the beer bench and unfit themselves for life because of the beer heart which they develop during the younger years. Here arise the greatest evils which undermine the strength, ability and health of our youth. He increases these dangers who by possibly well intended but ill grounded warning aims to keep away our youth from this wholesome and regulated form of recreation, of play, sport and gymnastics.

INTER HIGH SCHOOL ATHLETICS.

An address delivered by ARNOLD WERNER—SPANHOOFD, before the High School Teachers Association of the District of Columbia, May 1907.

Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen: In the letter requesting me to address this meeting on Inter High School Athletics, Miss Reed, our excellent chairman of the Program Committee, graciously intimated that she had heard I had a decided opinion on this subject. Now, when one har beemmade to feel as often as I have that one has no opinion at all on this matter, and that, even if possessing one, it was not worth anything, you will understand the extreme sense of gratification I had when suddenly my good-for-nothing opinion found this recognition, and to show my appreciation of the compliment implied I will accept all of the fifteen minutes that Miss Reed has kindly offered me, though I think it would not require more than two seconds in which to express myself on this subject more decidedly and forcibly than the members of this Association would care to hear.

Whatever my opinion may be worth, I am quite sure of one thing: that no one can justly deny me the right to an honest opinion on this subject of athletics, for I have been engaged in active athletics all my life. I can swim and row, I can ride anything that can be ridden; Kentucky thoroughbred, broncho, wheel or hobby. I also used to play ball, though I never played as if my life depended upon it; in fact, any kind of sport is welcome. I even enjoyed the athletic training of the German army, and did not run away from it, had my fling at fencing and duelling in German student life and spent many an afternoon and evening in the gymnasium teaching the hoys of St. Paul^ School, Concord, to perform stunts on the horizontal bar for their annual Easter exhibition. So you see, I could not possibly be prejudiced against athletics. I am too fond of them myself, and believe in them very strongly for girls as well as for boys.

But do not call me an athlete for that. I certainly am not one in the

Digitized by CjOOQle
-199-

American sense of the word. Just imagine! I never broke a single record, and I would not go across the street to break one if I had the chance. I love athletics ‘or their own sake, for their invigorating in-fmence on mind and body, and am as callous as a lobster to the great honor involved in record-breaking, nor do I like to make an exhibition of myself and to offer an opportunity for Tom, Dick and Harry to gamble on my stunts. Can I then aspire to the lofty title of an American Athlete? I am afraid that with such heretical views on the subject 1 should have been debarred from every athletic sport in this country, for Americans, as a rule, do not care for active athletics, they only talk about them. This statement may surprise some of you, in view of the fact that American athletes carried off so many prizes at the great Olympian games, The assertion seems rather startling, but the fact remains, or did you suppose that it makes you and me better athletes 1 ccause the American Jack Smith could throw the discus a few inches further than Tom Brown, of England? This would certainly be a very comfortable way of becoming an athlete, it is almost as good as the famous Nuremberg funnel.

Now, I presume, our women too are the greatest athletes in the* woTld. Well, why should it not affect them, the men certainly cannot claim all of the glory. But have you seen any change in them? Do they ever walk now when they have a chance to ride? Or do they take ten mile tramps like the English women merely for the love of walking? i have not noticed it, have you? Our women take up athletics now and then, to be sure, but only spasmodically, as a fad, never for the.love of the exercise. Where are the wheels that women used to ride a few years ago? You can buy them for one dollar a piece now, but nobody wants them even at this bargain-counter price. Roller skates slumbered like seventeen year locusts, now they are waking up again, and so it is with every other athletic sport. It is all a fad, nothing else. But for all that, the American woman does not pretend to be athletic, and that is more than can be said of the American man.

Now let us take a look at our American men. I have seen a good bit of this world, but nowhere have I found less active athletics among men and more talking and bragging about athletics than in this country, nowhere in the world have I seen such careless and criminal neglect of one of the most important factors in the education of the young as here. It is astounding how little attention is paid in our schools to a sound and systematic physical training of the growing youth, and yet it is of no less importance than spelling and arithmetic. What does it matter whether our boys and girls mispcll some outlandish words, if they be strong and healthy! A sound mind in a sound body, the mens sana in corpore sano of Juvenal is as true to-day as it was two thousand years ago. The mind will usually take care of itself if we supply the conditions upon which alone it can normally develop. Now, ladies and gentlemen, this is too serious a question to be delt with lightly, in Germany the entire physical development of the child is in the hands of
-200-

oxperienced, competent teachers. Do not confuse these men with our so-called coaches, trainers and crack base-ball players, it would be doing them an injustice. These teachers are as proficient in their department as we are in ours, and they know many things -of which our American athletes do not appear to have the faintest idea, for example,—that athletics are only a means to a higher end,—that they involve a harmonious development of all parts of the body alike, and that the development of one set of muscles at the expense of all the others is more injurious to health than no athletic exercise whatever.

What do we do?—We either neglect this important branch of our education entirely or leave it to the judgment of our children, and stimulate their interest by prizes and false glory. If a boy jumps a little higher than his fellow student, we make him feel that hp is a great hero who saves his country’s reputation; we see to it that he gets his name and picture in the paper; no wonder the boy believes that he really did something wonderful. Then we encourage him to beat the best jumper in some rival school, and tell - him that the honor and reputation of his school rests upon his shoulders. The boy will strain every nerve to beat his adversary, he will practice jumping from morning till night to succeed. Then later he will enter college athletics. Here again he will be urged onward; the reputation of his alma mater is at stake, he must win or die. Poor deluded fellow! But how in all the world could it ever occur to him that he is goaded on by an unscrupulous crowd of men who want to be amused and that he is only too often a 'victim to pecuniary speculation on the part of the college authorities? Lf he is successful he may finally enter the race for the world’s record. By the time he is in the prime of life, when the world might have derived some benefit from his existence, he will pay the penalty of broken health and not infrequently an untimely death. That is the kind of athlete we develop in this country, and we do it at the expense of a thousand boys and girls who are utterly neglected for the sake of this one record-breaker. Tims it is that the vast majority of our American children never experience the delights and benefits derived from real active athletics, they are either crowded by the fuss that is made over a record-breaker with whom they cannot compete, or they are literally kicked out of athletics, for the average American Sport does not waste any time on ideals, he is in it for business. But boys are boys, and they would not be boys if they did not take an interest in the manly art of athletics, hence there is nothing left for them but to sit on the fence, or the grand stand, and back their favorites. No, ladies and gentlemen, our American men are not athletic either. They may talk about athletics until the cows come home, but unfortunately that does not produce muscle. If you wish to convince yourself of this fact, go to any of our athletic meetings and you will always find about a dozen men in the field furnishing amusement for ten thousand on the grand stand. Why! I have attented one of the annual Turnfestivals at Frankfort in Germany where you could have seen 20. 000 active athletes in the field, while the grand stand was the

Digitized by ejOOQle
—201—

most inconspicuous feature of the whole affair. These men were in it for the genuine love of it, not for show or business. Would that w£ could have a similar distribution of athletics in this country! But this will never come to pass, as long we worship a fetish and distribute trophies in th( shape of tin cans, and other bric-a-brac instead of training all our young people alike to take real delight in healthy physical exercise. It is of no moment to me what the general rabble delights in, whether it be a slugging match or what not, let them have their pleasure, but our schools should not sanction or encourage such mistaken ideals.

Let me say here that it is not my purpose to cry out against athletic games and a reasonable amount of competition. On the contrary, I champion them; but I certainly do not approve of their abuses, which have a most pernicious effect on general athletics. Games are only a sort of recreation in the regular course of athletics, they create an interest in and a taste for physical exercise, but they certainly should not supercede gymnastics, for gymnastics are no play. Let the boys have their games, let them play baseball, even football, as long as they play for the sake of playing, it will not hurt them. But I assure you the average American boy is not fit to play competitive football, he breaks down under it. I have heard it said that football is distinctly a gentlemen’s game, since only gentlemen can play it. I do not doubt the truth of this statement, but I regret that we cannot recognize the gentlemen until the game is over. I have seen a great many enter a game of football as gentlemen end they were transformed into rowdies. Now, our boys certainly are not gentlemen, they are boys, very fine boys too, but gentlemen? No indeed. Only the other day one of our boys tried to enter competitive athletics by telling a lie about his age. I might possibly excuse this in a boy, but not in a gentleman. Our Eastern High School boys behaved like school boys two years ago, not like gentlemen. They made a grievous mistake, to be sure, but was it greater than ours? Did we not perhaps expect too much of them. I thought it poor taste at the time that some of onr teachers even sneered at those youngsters, imagining, I suppose, that such things could never have happened among the ‘gentlemen’ of their school. But it did happen. You will remember that our Western High School ‘gentlemen’ repeated the performance the very next year, and I should not be surprised, if Central should have*its turn next. Boys are boys in every school, and if you wish to be on the safe side with boys and do them the justice they deserve, you have to take them for what they really are— boys, not gentlemen. Such competitive athletic games, however, as are practiced in our schools are too strenuous for the average boy athlete. And the boy on the fence? Well, he fares even worse than the athlete, for unless a boy is a good athlete himself and can appreciate and enjoy the niceties of the game he is in danger of becoming a braggard or a gambler. We can pride ourselves on having produced both kinds. I can see only one remedy of the evil. Do away with the grand stand and send nil the boys into the field! This feat has been most successfully accomplished bv one of our great boarding schools, St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H. This school never competes with other schools, but all boys play.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
—202—

Of course, we cannot tell the hoys to play games if they do not care for it. We have to create a taste for athletic exercise first. Let me say here, and I say it with pleasure, that general athletics in our Washington schools are better than I have seen them elsewhere. Our cadets do admirable work, and the instruction in physical culture under the capable management of Miss Walton deserves high commendation. But this is hot enough. We need a gymnasium writh all the necessary apparatus, as running track, horizontal and parallel bars, trapeze, ladders, slanting poles, vaulting horses, rowing benches, etc., etc. We do not want a ptilacc but a useful working gymnasium, such as is owmed by every school in Germany. Then wre need good professional teachers of gymnastics who will give regular systematic instruction in free work as well as the proper use of this equipment to all boys and girls alike. Finally, last not least, let us never forget that the main purpose of gymnastics is “not to make gymnasts, prodigies of strength and agility, but simply to give power and suppleness to the muscles; to govern and facilitate the play of the bodily movements; to assure to laborers vigorous limbs, good corporal tools; to prepare for all men the elements a robust health and a long life; and, finally, to develop the physical energies, just as study develops the moral energies.”

If such a course be introduced into the regular curriculum of our high schools, it cannot fail to produce excellent results. Well organized athletics are most beneficial to everybody, it is the abuse of athletics that wrorks the mischief. And we abuse athletics in this country, degrade 4hem to he level of a prize-fight or faro game, mainly because the average American does not take active part in them, and knows too little about them.	#	  _	______

EATING WITHOUT HUNGER.

“A prolific cause of chronic indigestion is eating from habit, and simply because it is mealtime and others are eating. To eat when not hungry is to eat without relish, and foot taken without relish is worse than wasted. Without relish the salivary glands do not work, the gastric fluids are not freely secreted, and the best of foods will not be digested. Many perfectly harmless dishes are severely condemned for no other reason than that they were eaten perfunctorily and without relish and due insalivation.

“Hunger makes the plainest food enjoyable. It causes vigorous secretion and outpouring of all the digestive fluids—the sources of ptvalin, pepsin, trypsin, etc., without a plentiful supply of which no foods can be perfectly digested.

“Wait for an appetite if it takes a week. Fasting is one of the saving graces. It has a spiritual significance through its great physical and physiological importance. If breakfast is a bore or lunch a matter of indifference cut one or both of them out. Wait for distinct and unmistakable hunger—and then eat slowly. If you do this you need ask few questions as to the propriety and digestibility of wrhat you eat, and it need not be predigested !M

Digitized by CjOOQle
-203 -

THE INFLUENCE OF FLESH EATING ON ENDURANCE.

By IRVING FISHER, Professor of Political Economy at Yale University.

(Concluded.^

The case of S. A. W. is instructive, both as showing the importance ot the competitive factor and as showing the unimportance or comparative absence of the factor mentioned by Caspari, the desire to vindicate a cause. Mr. S. A. W. is a nurse at Battle Creek, possessing great sirength and endurance, but being one *of the first to be tested, and, hiving no previous records to break, he held his arms out only 9 minutes and 10 seconds. This was very far from his limit, for after it had been surpassed by some of his associates, he did it 32 minutes, which was at that time “the record.” In like manner, in deep knee bending his first test was only 147, but afterward, under the stimulus of competition, .he raised it to 2,400, and stated that if this record were ever broken, he wished to have the opportunity to try again.

In another case, that of the Yale student G. S. I)., there was no thought of “vegetarianism”; he had practically dropped meat out of his dietary from reasons of economy, and was much surprised after his test was over to hear the suggestion that his endurance might be due to this abstemiousness. In these cases, therefore, and in many others which might be cited, the stimulus was the stimulus of rivalry, not the desire to vindicate a theory.

The advantage of this factor of rivalry as between the flesh-eater* and the abstainers was distinctly on the side of the flesh-eaters; for their tests, with two exceptions, came after all the records of the abstainers had been completed, namely, February 28, April 4, May 9 to 31st. The two exceptions were of men tested on February 9th, and even these men bad a large number of previous cases to stimulate them, including that of the Yale abstaining athlete who had reached 160 minutes. It is also to be remembered that the Yale athletes were, as such, more accustomed to undergo physical torture for the sake of winning an athletic contest, than were their rivals at Battle Creek. Few, if any, of the latter, worked as hard as G. K. and F. 0., the baseball players; and C. S. M., the runner; J. M. T. and G. A., the crew men; and C. S. M., the wrestler, all of Yale.

It is, therefore, practically certain that as a whole the flesh-eaters worked nearer to their limits than the abstainers, and it is certain that a larger proportion of flesh-eaters actually reached their limit than of the abstainers. Of the 15 flesh-eaters who took the arm test, 3 reached their limit; of the 32 abstainers who took the same test, only 4 reached their bmit. Again, of the 9 flesh-eaters who took the deep knee bending test,

3	reached their limit; and of the 21 abstainers who took the deep knee bending test, none reached their limit. In the leg-raising test no one leached the absolute limit.

Except on the part of three or four of the Battle Creek men, there was little evidence of that fanatical desire to prove the superiority of vegetarianism on which Caspari commends in Germany. But in view of CasparFs warning, special pains were taken to stimulate the flesh-eaters to the utmost. This stimulation was brought about, in the case of Yale

Digitized by CjOOQle
—204—

students, by utilizing their college pride. They felt that their teats would go on record as tests of Yale athletes, and the “Yale spirit” r.ppcared to be as great a stimulus as any “vegetarian” spirit could possibly be.

An effort was made to bring individuals representing the two diets ia direct competition, although this was possible only in two cases. In one case a Yale long-distance runner and a Yale professor who had adopted the Chittenden diet mat in competition in the arm contest. The athlete was a high-proteid flesh-eater. In the course of a few minutes his arms began to tremble, and at the end of 8 minutes and 45 -econds they had gradually fallen, against his will and much to his mortification. The arms of his antagonist had not yet begun to tremble or even to give much pain in the deltoid, and he continued holding them out for 37 minutes. In another case, a physician from New Haven, who accompanied me on one of the trips to Battle Creek, was pitted against a physician of the Sanitarium. The New Haven physician was of a more athletic build than his antagonist and, in college, had been a football player. In physique and former training, in out-of-door life, in age and every other material respect except diet, he seemed to have the advantage. But in diet he was accustomed to eating meat three times a day, v.hereas his antagonist had abstained from meat for 20 years and was on a low-proteid basis (.105 grams of nitrogen per kilogram of body weight — the Chittenden standard). In order that the flesh-eater might have the greater stimulus, he started on his test one minute later than his opponent. He therefore realized that if he dropped his arms first he was beaten, whereas his opponent, had he dropped his arms first, still had a chance of winning. The flesh-eater certainly exercised strong will power, but at the end of 12 minutes he was unable to hold out longer. His opponent continued to 1? minutes, and had he made the same effort, \sould undoubtedly continued much longer.

Another evidence that the superiority of the flesh-abstainers was one of muscular endurance and not of grit was the fact that there was less pain felt by them in the arm-holding test. In the cases of all the flesh-eaters, the pain in the deltoid began very early, and this pain, when ir once began, remained, though with some fluctuations, to the end. Among the abstainers, on the other hand the case was different. The pain began later and fluctuated more widely. In only one case, that of Dr. H. C. W., did the pain begin early and continue without cessation to the end (80 minutes). Dr. C. E. S. felt almost no sensation of pain for a full hour. In the case of Dr. A. W. N., the pain began almost from the outset, but continued to go and come for the full time, namely, 2 hours and 50 minutes. Dr. E. J. W. felt very little pain for 2 hours and kept the arms up for 3 hours and 20 minutes. This time was chosen, not because it was the limit of endurance, but because it was a round number (2( 0 minutes). In fact, the arms were not trembling even at the end, although there was a great deal of pain and had been for the previous half hour.

In this connection it might be mentioned that a six-year-old son of

Digitized by

Google
-205-

one of the Battle Creek doctors, who heard of his father's test, tried holding his little arms out, and did not drop them until 43 minutes had elapsed. It would of course be absurd in this case to attribute to the child any effort to vindicate “vegetarianism:” It was only the pain which induced him to drop his arms, and undoubtedly it required a much less degree of pain to produce this effort than in the case of adults.

Still another evidence is found in a study of the after-effects. From arm-holding there were, curiously enough, very little after-effects, either in the case of the flesh-eaters or the abstainers. But deep knee bending left painful after-effects with all, though they were far more marked for the flesh-eaters than for the abstainers. Thus, among the latter, those who held two of the three highest records, 1800 and 2400, were not incapacitated. The former, who is a Yale athlete, took a run on the track of the gymnasium after his performance, and a long walk afterward; and tin latter, who is a nurse at the Sanitarium, continued his duties and lound little annoyance from stiffness or soreness. On the other hand, among the flesh-eaters, G. K. had reached his absolute limit at 254 times, and was unable to rise from the stooping posture the 255th time. He had to be carried downstairs after the test, and was incapacitated for several days. The same was true of C. S. M., who, in fact, was seriously alarmed about his condition for two weeks. He had fainted after 502 deep knee bendings. Again, W. J. IT., the long-distance runner, was so stiff and sore and inconvenienced that he and his trainers feared that he Mould not be able to compete in races for which he had been scheduled some weeks later. Fortunately these fears proved groundless.

Finally, satisfactory evidence that the difference in endurance between the groups mentioned was not due to a superiority in grit on the part of the abstainers is found in the fact that, even if we compare the flesh-eaters who actually reached their limit in the various tests with the abstainers who did not reach their limit, the latter group still show themselves superior. The results are given in the following tables:

SELECTED COMPARISONS. GIVING EVERY BENEFIT OF THE DOUBT TO THE FLESH-EATERS*

	ARM HOLDING		DEEP KNEE BENDING	
	No. of Persons	Average  Record	No. of Persons	Average  Record
Flesh-earters, athletes	4**	16 Minutes	5 a	567 Times
“ abstainers, “	17***	31	16 b	933 “
" “ sedentary	12+ ^	6a “	5 c	535

* Kvcry flesh-eater is included who continued to his limit of endurance and any others who would raise the average. Every abstainer is included who stopped short of his limit and any others who would lower the average.

•• Viz. W. j H , C. S. M., G. K , and R.

*•* Viz. a!! except C. C. R. t Viz. all except J. E. C.

a Viz. G. K., W. J. H., C. S. M., F. S. N , G. A. b Viz. all without exception, c Viz. all without exception.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-200 -

The conclusions from this table are:

(1)	. The average records of the flesh-eaters whose arms were held out until they dropped was only about half the average record of the abstaining athletes, and a quarter of the average record of the abstaining sedentary men, who stopped short of their limit, though the flesh-eaters were helped out by including others of their numbers who would raise their average and the abstainers were handicapped by including any who would lower theirs.

(2)	. Comparisons of the same nature for deep kneq bending show the flesh-eaters’ average to be less than two-thirds that of the abstainers of the same class, and only 7 per cent, above that of the sedentary class.

Allowing for the heavy handicaps placed on the winning side, it may be inferred without reasonable doubt that the flesh-eating group of athletes was very far inferior in endurance to the abstainers, even the sedentary group.

There still remains the question whether this difference in endurance v/as due to the dietetic factors mentioned, or to some other cause. In order to determine whether some other cause than diet could be responsible for so marked a difference in endurance, we may use the methol (if elimination.

In the first place, it is certain that the difference was not a matter of exercise. There can be no doubt, of course, that exercise is a most important factor in producing endurance. This is proved every year by those training for cndurauce contests. Evidence of the influence of exercise may be seen in the present tests. Thus the best record for holding the arms in the case of the flesh-eaters was that of a baseball player, whose right deltoid was exercised in playing ball. It was noticeable, in his case, that there was a great difference between the right and the left arm, the latter being the one which brought the test to an end, although it was undoubtedly stronger than the deltoid of sedentary persons.*

Again, the two highest records for the leg-raising were made by men .*rho had exercised the abdominal muscles systematically, one of them trainig for a Yale crew. His was the only case in which the highest record for any one of the three tests was held bv a flesh-eater.

But that exercise was not responsible in the present experiment, for the disparity in endurance is shown by the fact that even the sedentary abstainers surpassed the exercising flesh-eaters. The sedentary abstainers were in most cases physicians, and w ith few exceptions took very little exercise, but spent their entire day in their offices at the Sanitarium. This was the case even with Dr. J. F. B., who reached the record of 1225 in deep knee bending.

Again we cannot attribute the result to more sleep or leisure on the part of the abstainers. Here, too, the advantage was all on the side of the flesh-eaters, who, as students, had more freedom and as athletes wore making every effort to keep good hours and live hygienically for the

* There i> a sympathetic relation between corresponding muscles. A physiologist has told me of experiments he has tried on himself, which seem definitely to show that the exercise of the muscle on one side increases the endurance not only of that muscle but also of its unused -mate on the other side.

Digitized by Cjooole
-207-

irake of the contests for which many of them were training. Among the abstainers, at any rate the sedentary group, the opposite conditions prevailed. -Several of the physicians had night duty or for other reasons were on short sleep. In fact, it was because I had noticed their unusual capacity for long hours that the comparisons described in this article were undertaken. Similar comments had been made by other observers, including several physicians. For instance, a Yale instructor and physician, who had been accustomed for years to spend his summers at Chautauqua, and who had many in his classes from the Sanitarium, commented upon the fact that they had greater endurance than the rest of liis class. He stated that they did all the work which the others accomplished and usually two hours extra daily.

Again the difference in endurance is not attributable to a difference ir. physique. Here also the advantage was distinctly on the side of the flesh-eaters; in fact, the abstainers, as far as they consisted of men at the Sanitarium, were for the most part ex-invalids. Two had had years past tuberculosis of the lungs, one had a hip disease, another typhoid fever, etc. In respect to physical appearance they were in general inferior to their flesh-eating competitors at Yale.

Alcohol and tobacco could scarcely be the cause of the inferiority of the flesh-eaters, inasmuch as, being in training, they were for the time at least practically abstaining from their use.

The only other questionable factor is fresh air. In this respect there is less certain evidence, but as far as the use of fresh air is concerned, there can be little doubt that the flesh-eaters had here the advantage also; for the training of the Yale athletes usually involves outdoor runs, and in all cases it involves the exercise of the lungs in connection with other exercises; where the sedentary flesh-abstainers v~Te, as above stated, confined indoors for the entire day. With respect to the use of fresh air at night, it is quite possible that the advantage was on the side of the flesh-abstainers. This was certainly true in a few cases, especially among the abstaining athletes, one of whom slep^. in a tent at Hattie Creek.

It must not be forgotten that the 4 Yale abstainers showed just as great a superiority in endurance to the flesh-eaters as did the 28 abstain-ners at Battle Creek, although at least 2 of the 4 were, us far as known, onder the same conditions as to fresh air and other conditions of training. While, therefore, it is not possible to speak with absolute certainty as to the influence of fresh air upon the comparisons, there is no evidence to show that this factor favored the abstainers as \ whole, or, if it did favor this group, that it played so important a role as to explain, unaided, their great superiority in endurance.

It seems reasonable, therefore, to attribute the difference in endurance between the flesh-eaters and the abstainers entirely to the difference in their diet.

The question still remains, What were th* essential dietetic factors? It is well known that the Battle Creek subjrcts differ in their diet from other persons not only in their abstention from flesh, but also in their

Digitized by CaOOQle
-208-

abstention from tea, coffee, condiments—such as mustard, pepper, etc.— and in the fact that their proteid is on a considerably lower level. It is impossible, on the basis of the comparisons presented, to give a definite statement as to the relative importance of these various factors. The contrast in the groups in respect to the use of flesh, is closely associated with the contrast in respect to the amount of proteid. That the subjects from Battle Creek are lower in proteid will be seen from the following table, which gives the average daily nitrogen excreted per kilogram of body weight:

NITROGEN EXCRETED BY FLESH-ABSTAINERS.

	NITROGEN	ARM	DEEP KNEE
	PER KILO.	HOLDING	BENDING
J. E. G. Bat. Cr. E.J. W. “ “ J. F. B. “ "	.095	08 Minutes	
	.to	200 **	447 Times
	.105		1225 “
A. J. R. “ “	.105	17	2CO '*
H. O. “ “	.ti	*3 **	80O “
A. W. N. “ •«	.”5	170 "	
J. T. C. " "	•1'7	to “	401
C. H. “ “	. 120	*7 “	79* “
E. H. R. “ “	.122	*5 “	
J. F. M. “ “ S. E. B. “ “	.125  .1*5	5*  27	
S. A. O. “ “ C. E. S. “ "	•	*35  •	*4	e ••	2400 “
P. R. “ “	• *5	42	400 14

This table is interesting in several ways. It shows that the diet of the Battle Creek men was low in proteid as compared with the ordinary American diet, which metabolizes .18 to .24 grams per kilogram. Their great endurance, therefore, may possibly be explainable wholly on the ground of low-proteid and not on the ground of abstention from flesh foods per se. Practically speaking, however, a flesh-eater cannot maintain these low levels of proteid unless his consumption of flesh foods is at most very small. On the other hand, it is conceivable that the difference in endurance is due to the difference in the use of flesh foods per se. In this case the abstainers might have still more endurance if they consumed more vegetable proteid. Evidence based on other data than those here presented would seem to show that both low-proteid and flesh-abstention are favorable to endurance. But there is little evidence in the facts given in this article to enable us to disentangle the possible virtues of a low-proteid diet and of a non-flesh diet. Some slight evidence of the importance of low-proteid is found by dividing, in the above table, the records for each of the two tests into two equal groups, a low-proteid gioup and a high-proteid group. We find the following averages:

GROUP	ARM HOLDING *	DEEP KNEE BENDING
Low proteid	85	668
High proteid	4*	998

* Since, for this test, the number of men was odd, the middle man, C. H., was omitted; but his in either group would not materially affect the comparison.
-209-

No great dependence can be placed on these comparisons, because they are somewhat conflicting, because the possible unequal effect of competition has not been eliminated and because the two groups do not differ very markedly in proteid.

From the experiment as above described, we may now draw the following conclusions:

First: Of the three groups compared, the large flesh-eaters showed far less endurance than the abstainers, even when the latter w'ere leading a sedentary life. A fortiori, must the large flesh-eaters of the sedentary type be inferior in endurance to abstainers.

Second: In view of (1) the great extent of the superiority shown, (?) the heavy handicap imposed upon the abstainers, and (3) the absence of other known factors to account for their superiority, it is improbable that this superiority can be explained away by adventitious circumstances.

'Third:	It	is	possible	that	the	superiority	of	the	abstainers is due

to the absence of flesh foods or to the use of a smaller amount of proteid, or to both as well as to the abstention of tea, coffee and condiments.

No attempt has been been made to explain why the us^ of higli-proteid or flesh foods should diminish endurance. A number of theories have been proposed. Dr. Alexander H.aig of London has long maintained that abstainers have greater endurance than flesh-eaters, particularly if they abstain also from all other “uric acid producing foods” such as (he says) eggs, beans, peas, asparagus and mushrooms. His principal theory is that uric acid is the factor-in diet which induces fatigue. Many of his theories, both as to uric acid and as to the requirements of proteid, have been overthrown; but his claims for the advantages of a purin-free—or at any rate a fleshless—dietary have received much corroboration. The manner in which, according to Haig, uric acid interferes with endurance is by making the blood “collaemic” or viscous, whereby it becomes difficult for the heart to pump it through the capillaries. Hence the blood pressure increases. Observations actually show' that persons possessing great endurance often have low' blood pressure. This is true, for instance, among the subject; of the present experiment at Battle Creek.

A more general theory in favor of the low-proteid is that mentioned Lv Professor Chittenden in his Physiological Economy in Nutrition and concerns the metabolism of proteid. As is well known, fat and carbohydrate, w’hen consumed, give off merely carbonic acid gas and water, both of which are easily eliminated, the one being a gas and the other a liquid. Proteid, on the other hand, produces crytalline waste products, of which uric acid is one. The theory is that these midway products of metabolism in some manner produce fatigue. When the problem of the physiology of fatigue and its relations to food ingested is more fully solved, it will not only satisfy a legitimate scientific curiosity, but w'ill point unmistakably to the optimum diet under various conditions. In the meantime, it may be said that, whatever the explanation, there is strong evidence that a low-proteid, non-flesh, or nearly non-flesh, dietary is conducive to endurance.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-210-

The truth of this result has long been obscured, through two unfortunate circumstances. One is the vegetarian fanaticism mentioned by Caspari which has done much to defeat its own ends. From the premise - -often bolstered up by theological dogma—that flesh-eeting is wrong, the inference is diawn that it must be unhygienic. This reasoning is so utterly at variance with the methods of modem science as to stamp those who use it as victims of bigoted prejudice, and to prevent any genuine scientific investigation. At present the tendency of such investigations as those of Chittenden, Mendel, Folin, Metchnikoff, Caspari, Le Fevre, Fauvel and others have a distinct trend toward a fleshless dietary. And yet, such are the associations of the term “vegetarian,” that many are loth to grant even what is due to the tenets of “vegetarianism.” The proper scientific attitude is to study the question of meat-eating in precisely the same manner as one would study the question of bread-eating.

The second circumstance which has obscured the merits of a low-proteid and non-flesh diet is that many of those who have attempted experimentally to give up flesh foods have made themselves ill. The reason given for this effect was “deficiency of proteid," but, in view of the researches of Palow and other recent writers, we may be fairly certain that- such failures are usually due to the fact that meat is a highly peptogenic food. It follows that, when it is suddenly or forcibly cut out of one's diet, the stomach feels the lack of its assustomed stimulus. There seem to be practical advantages in the method of reaching a low-proteid diet adopted by Mr. Fletcher, consisting of thorough mastication. The experiment last year at Yale as well as other experiments have shown that adherence to this practice leads to a gradual reduction in proteid and flesh foods, without any unpleasant or dangerous self-denial on the part of the experimenter. It may well be that those who, in spite of thorough mastication, still have a craving for flesh foods have an actual physiological need which no other foods—at least in the list of foods employed by them—is able to satisfy. The question of the extent to which flesh foods may be used advantageously is still open, but there can now he little question, in view of the facts which have come to light during the last few years, that the ordinary consumption of those foods is excessive.—Yale Medical Journal.

—GROWTH IS PREDOMINANTLY A FUNCTION OF REST, says the World's Work. Work is chiefly an energy-expending and tearing-down process. Rest following work is chiefly a building-up and growing process. Work may furnish the conditions under which subsequent growth may occur, but in itself it is destructive. By work we do tilings in the world, hut we do not grow by work. Rest is not the only condition of growth, but it is one of the essential conditions.

The best work that most of us do is not begun in our offices or at our desks, but when wc are wandering in the woods or sitting quietly with undirected thoughts. From somewhere at such times there flash from our minds those ideas that direct and control our lives, visions of how to do that which previously seemed impossible, new aspirations, hopes and

Digitized by CjOOQle
-211 •

desires. Work is the process of realization. The careful balance and great ideas come largely during quiet, and without being sought. The man who never takes time to do nothing will hardly do great things. He will hardly have epoch-making ideas or stimulating ideas. Eest is not thus merely in order to recuperate for work. If so, we should rest only when fatigued. We need to do nothing at times when we are as well as possible, when our whole natures are ready for their finest product. We need occasionally to leave them undirected, in order that we may receive these messages from the unknown. We need to have the instrument working at its greatest perfection, be undirected and receptive. I am not advocating a mystic idea.

Rest is as important as work. Dreams must precede action. Concentrated art is not art, and the acquiring of facts is not growth.

THE STRONG MAN.

Men with muscles will not be altogether pleased after reading certain observations on “Physical Culture and its Pitfalls/’ by Staff-Surgeon A. Gaskell, which appear in a report issued by the Admiralty.

“What is strength?” he asks, “and how can one measure it?” He replies by differentiating between physical strength and constitutional strength. The former is the strength of large muscles, whereas constitutional strength is practically synonymous with health, and depends on the perfect working development of all parts of the body* especially the heart, and, least, of all, the muscles. A man with large muscles and a heart strained by the improper use of dumbbells is of but little use as regards endurance. Often the physically strong man stands the inroads of disease surprisingly badly.

Surgeon Haskell says he has known several glaring examples of men who, when stripped, were admired for their marvelous muscular development, but who were quite unable to apply their strength in any useful way. The thim wiry man may be able to do just as much in feats of physical strength as the man with large muscles.

”1 recall a perfect giant of muscular strength, who rowed for three years in the Cambridge boat, and very nearly died from an attack of influenza, while his sister, who was a woman of poor physique, passed through an attack uneventfully.

“How often, also, does one see the functional hearts in recruits that are trained on the straining system! How often, also, does the “strong" m|in show such signs of degeneration as baldness or premature gray hair, tortuous temporal arteries, and flaecid abdominal walls, with deposition of fat!

“Seldom does the 'strong' man reach a happy and healthy old age."

(Nothing new in the above; teachers of physical 'exercises have taught and preached on the lines advocated for many years in this country. As to boat racing, it is physical straining—not training. The real teacher never poses as a “strong man."— Kd.

Digitized by C^ooQle
Mind and body

ZVviJy I1ViU WVI, FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Svbttcrlptloa Price, 91.00 per Year.	Itdl^aukee,	Wiecoaudn.

9ST Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wit Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 120 Pomona St., Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

—WITH HIS TRANSLATION of Dr. F. A. Schmidt’s article on Heart Dilatation Mr. Carl Schrader deserves the thanks of onr leaders.. Dr. Schmidt has such sane views on gymnastics, sports and games that his articles are always of more than ordinary interest. In this instance in which he takes one of his colleagues to task for sending to the school board an official opinion contrary to the views expressed by Earl Moeller, Inspector of Gymnastics in Altona, Dr. Schmidt brings to our notice the results of the most recent researches into the causes and cures of heart dilatations. It is because this noted physiologist has been a “Turner” his whole life, and has been the speaker of the Bonn'er Tumverein for so many years that his opinion carries more weight than ti at of some “theorist” who knows the value of exercise merely from its theoretical side. We hope that this article may also be the means of convincing such teachers of their errors who still believe that correct and adequate gymnastic training can only be had in the gymnasium. “Inherited dilated hearts were found reduced in a short time after practicing running, jumping, throwing, etc., i. e. the lighter forms of track and field sports.”

THE NEW FOOT BALL RULES.

'From Spalding’s Official Foot Ball Guide.)

The actual matter of the rules has not been materially changed owing to the satisfaction that was found with the wholesome revision which took place in the rules of 1906. The particular detail of the few alterations follows later.

Meantime, it is worth while to look over the new arrangement and the headings, which will give a fair idea of the general plan.

First come the rules relating to the field and the ball. Then +hose relating to the number of players and substitutes, then the length of the game and scoring. Following these come definitions of all the terms used. This group of definitions is followed by rules relating to the kickoff and the position of players on scrimmage as well as kick-off, kick-out, punt-out and place-kick, also on free kicks. Then come sections covering, the putting of the ball in play and the detail of the game. Following these, unlawful interference with play, obstruction of opponents^ passing or throwing the hall, and on- and off-side. Then the rules relating to the

Digitized by e^ooQle
-213-

necessary gain on downs and distance of the kick, as well as a description of a try-at-goal.

The next two groups govern the conduct of players as well as the conduct of persons other than players. Following these come penalties and the duties of the officials, with brief of rules over which each has control. Appended to these are notes giving briefly the suggestions and interpretations placed on the rules.

The main alterations are as follows:	An increased length of the

game. Owing to the fact that it was found under the new rules the players were rather less exhausted than in the old game, it was determined to increase the playing time another ten minutes by adding five minutes to each half.

It was voted to continue the method of two umpires, but to define their duties more specifically, so that one would aid the referee in decisions down the field. This one is practically an assistant to the Referee and is called the Field Judge. The other, generally speaking, has control of the decisions that belong to the line-up.

The ten-yard rule is preserved exactly as before, that innovation having met with almost general approval in that it made far less effective anything like mass plays and forced the open play which everyone so much desired.

Forward passing lias been altered to a certain extent, making it less risky to use it on the first and second down. Instead of losing the ball in case the forward pass strides the ground before striking a player of either side, the same side retains possesion of the ball by losing fifteen yards in distance. When the forward pass is essayed on the third down, however, and it srikes the ground without striking a player, or is otherwise made Illegally, the ball must be surrendered to the other side exactly as formerly.

In order to cover a point on which there was some discussion last year, the following legislation was enacted:	That	a line man may carry

the ball, provided he does not leave his position in the line until the hall is put in play.

It was also determined that the forward pass or tripping or hurdling by the side that did not put the hall in play in a scrimmage, should he penalized fifteen yards.

In order to more clearly settle the point about the rights of a ."ide on a fair catch, it was enacted that a man should he regarded as having an opportunity to make a fair catch when it was possible for him to reach the ball before it should strike the groud.

In order to prevent signalling by one man and a catch and run by another, it was legislated that if one man of the side signals his intention of making a fair catch, and then another of his side, who did not signal, makes the catch, this player may not run with the hall nor is he entitled to the privileges coming from a fair catch, but the hall must be put down at the point where he caught it for a scrimmage by his side.

A1J questions of hurdling were put within the jurisdiction of the referee.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-214-

COMPANION EXERCISE WITH WOODEN RINGS.

By F. A. F1NKELDEY, Girard College, Philadelphia, Pa.

Each exercise should be executed 4 times; the exercises that can be performed to both sides may be executed alternately, or twice left and twice right.

The rings used are about 7 inches in diameter and about 1 inch thick. They can be bought of house furnishing or department stores.

GROUP I.

Starting Position: The pupils are arranged in couples standing behind one another, facing front, arms down at the sides, grasping the rings with both hands. The front boy of each couple is No. 1, the rear boy is No. 1. The couples shall stand at 3 steps distance from each other in each direction.

Exersise 1.

1—2. Raise arms sideward. (Fig. 1.)

3—4. No. 1. Deep knee bending, raise arms upward.

No. 2. Raise heels, move arms forward. (Fig. 2.) r>—(». Return to first position.

7—8. Return to starting position.

1—2. 3 -4.

.5—3. s.

1—2. 3—4. 5—3.

Exercise 2.

Raise arms sideward. (Fig. 1.)

No. 1. Lunge sideward left, raise arms obliquely sideward upward right.

Xn. 2. Lunge sideward right, raise arms obliquely sideward upward left. (Fig. 3.)

Return to first position.

Return to starting position.

Exercise 3.

Raise arm* sideward, tonehstep sideward left.

Cross step left, bend trunk sideward left. (Fig. 4.)

Return to first position.

Return to starting position.

Digitized by

Google
—2ir>—

GROUP IT.

Starting Position: In couples facing on another, arms down at the sides, both hands grasping the rings. (No. 1 turn left face, No. 2 steps in front of and faces No. 1. The side of the body is turned toward the front.)

Exercise 1. x—2. Raise amis sideward and stride.

No. 1 sideward right, No. 2 sideward left. (Fig. 5.) o —4. Turn the trunk—No. 1 right. No. 2 left—kneel on rear knee, raise arms in front overhead and lower arms in rear until the ring touches the floor. (Fig. (>.)

:>—6. Return to first position.

T—8. Return to starting position.

Digitized by CjOOQle
Exercise 2.

1—2. Raise arms sideward.

0—	4. Bend trunk backward, raise arms overhead. (Fig. 7.)

~r—6. Return to first position.

7—8. Return to starting position.

Exercise 3.

1-	—2. Bend arms, rings as high as shoulders. (Fig. 8.)

3—4. Lunge sideward, bend the trunk sideward, (No. 1 lunge a bend to the right. No. 2 lunge a bend to the left), and straighten arms sideward in line with the shoulders. (Fig. 9.)

—0. Return to first position.

7—8. Return to starting position.

GROUP III.

Starting Position: In couples, standing back to back. (Nos. 1 and 2 turn about face.) Arms down, both hands grasping rings (the side of the body is turned toward the front).

Exercise 1.

1—2. Raise arms sideward.

3—4. Lunge forward left (hold chest high) and lower arms downward.

(Fig. 10.)

.*>—f>. Return to first position.

7—8. Return to starting position.

Exercise 2.

1—2. Raise arms sideward.

:* -4. Lunge sideward left, raise arms obliquely sideward upward right. (Fig. 11.)

N. B. To show this exercise best, the photograph for Fig. 11 was not taken from the front, but from the side.)

3—G. Return to first position.

7—8. Return to stating position.

Digitized by
-217-

Exercise 3.

2—	2. Raise arms sideward.

3—	4. Lunge forward left, raise arms overhead. (Fig. 12.)

5—6. Return to first position.

?*—8. Return to starting position.

GROUP IV.

Starting Position: In ranks of threes, each hoy holding a ring in his left hand and grasping with his left hand the ring of the neighbor, arms down ; the boys are numbered 1—2—3 from right to left.

Exercise 1.

1--2. Raise arms forward, the ones stride backw. right, the threes stride backward left. (Fig. 13.)

3-—4. Twos raise heels, move arms sideward; ones and threes kneel on rear knee, and raLe their inner arms upward and move the outer arms sideward. (Fig. 14.)

5—6. Return to first position.

7—8. Return to starting position.

Exercise 2.

i—2. Ones and threes raise the outer arm sideward and the inner arm forward, and cross step with the outside leg. (No. 1 right, No. 3 left.) The twos stride backward left and raise arms forward.

3—4. Twos kneel left and move arms sideward; ones and threes lunge sideward outward, raise the outside arm to half circle everhend and move the inner arm sideward. (Fig. 15.)

5—6. Return to first position.

7—8. Return to starting position.

Exercise 3.

1—2. Raise arms forward. Ones and threes touchstep sideward with the outside leg.

3—4. Twros bend trunk backward and raise arms obliquely sidewrard upward; the ones and threes bend trunk sideward outward with
> Or

—2 IS

cross step with outside leg, and move the arms sideward in line with shoulders. (Fig. 16.) (In this picture No. 2 is not bending the trunk backward, and No. 1 and No. 3 are too close to Na. 2.)

5—6. Return to first position.

T—8. Return to starting position.

GROUP V.

Starling Position: In fives, standing in a circle, facing inward, arms down, all grasping rings.

Exercise 1.

1—2. Stride forward left raise arms forward. (Fig. 17.)

3 —4. Stride backward left, bend trunk forward (trunk straight) and swing arms down and backward (the arms will form a five ray star). (Fig. 18.)

—6. Return to first position.

i
'« CO

-219-

Exercise 2.

Stride backward left, raise arms backward. (Fig. 19.)

Kneel left and swing arms downward and overhead. (Fig. 20.) Return to first position.

Return to starting position.

Exercise 3.

1—2. Stride backward left and raise arms forward (like Fig. 17, except that the stride is backward).

;•—4. Stride forward left, bend trunk backward, raise arms overhead and lower them backward to the height of shoulders. (Fig. 21.) The arms will form a five ray star.

—6. Return to first position.

7—8. Return to starting position.

Digitized by
-220-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

(Continued. I

A class drill, squad work on the apparatns and closing with the game “Three Deep Tag.” As a preliminary a short run. Gymnastic tactics.

After taking wands, count off to fours in front formation, then fours % wheel 1.—1,4! Open order to the r. by marching forw.—5, 8!

WAND DRILL.

Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower! 1,2!

1. Toetouch forw. 1. and raise wand forw.—1!	Pos.—2!	Bendknee-

step backw. 1. and place wand behind shoulders—3! Pos.—1! Same r.—1, 4!

2.	Squat rest and place wand to vertical pos. on floor about arm's length in front of the feet—1! Raise 1. leg and 1. arm sidew.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

Wand in front of shoulders—raise!

3.	Bend trunk forw. and stretch arms downw.—1! Pos.—2! Lunge forw. 1. and stretch arms upw.—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4! Or alternate—1, 8! Wand—lower! *

4.	Stride pos. sidew. 1. aijd raise wand sidew. r.—1! y4 turn 1. on both heels, bend 1. knee, move wand downw., then upw. 1. (r. hand in front of 1. shoulder)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—1! Same r.—1, 4!

f». Bend trunk sidew, 1. and raise wand upw. r. (1. hand in front of r. shoulder)—1! Pos.—2! Lunge sidew. 1. and raise wTand sidew. upw. obi. to the 1. (r. hand in front of 1. shoulder)—3! Pos.—1! Same r. -1, 4!

Wand at r. shoulder—carry! 1,2!

Close order inward by inarching forw.—1, 4!

Class four steps forw.—1. 4! Fours V4 wheel 1.—5, 8! Repeat three times—9, 32!

Repeat marching order, but wheel to the r. instead of to the 1.— 1, 32! Repeat once.

Open order outward by marching forw.-l,4!

Wand forward to starting pos.—1—2!

Wand on shoulders—place !

f-. a) Raise 1. and r. leg backw. alt. and stretch arms upw.—1, 4!

b) Raise 1. and r. leg forw. alt. and stretch arms forw.—1, 4! Wand forw. to starting pos.—lower!

7.	Bend trunk backw. and raise wand upw.—1! Pos.—2! Lunge backw.

1.	and place wand obi. behind shoulders, 1. hand over ). shoulder, r. arm sidew. downw. obi.—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4!

3.	Stationary run with raising lower legs backw. alt. and holding the

Digitized by LaOOQLe
-221-

wand in the forw., overhead; sidew. 1. and r. pos. and reverse orde*, each about 6 or 8 counts.

9.	Raise wand overhead—1! Lower behind hips—2! As 1—3! Pos.— 4! Repeat 6 or 8 times.

10.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise wand overhead in four counts; exhale and lower wand forw. to starting pos. in one count. Repeat 5 or 6 times.

Wand at r. shoulder—carry!

Close order toward the 1. by marching forw., 1—4!

Fours Vi wheel r. by inarching backw.—1, 4!

Face toward the leader; march forw. and deposit the wand; then form squads for the apparatus work and march to assigned places.

First Division: Long horse.

Second Division: High horizontal ladder.

Third Division: Low horizontal bar.

Fourth Division: Long buck.

Change places.—Division 1 with 2, and 8 with 4.

First Division.—Long Horse (height of chest).

A short run precedes nil exercises.

1.	Front scissors mount [}/2 turn 1. or r.) to front leaning rest, hands on croup; straddle dismount forw.

2.	Front scissors and close legs to momentary free front rest and immediately straddle dismount forw.

3.	Rear vault swing r. over croup to front cross stand on board(^idrc.r.)

4.	Front vault 1. with y2 turn r. to cross stand on the r. side of the horse.

0.	Roll over forw. obi. toward the r. over the croup (the 1. shoulder resting on the croup in the roll over) to cross stand on the r. side of the horse.

f>. Turn over forw. to cross hand balance on the croup; *4 turn r., then dismout with farther turn r.

7. Turn over forw. with y4 turn r. to side hand balance; squat vault dismount forw.

5.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the second division on the high horizontal ladder

First Division.—High Horizontal Ladder.

In front cross stand —

1.	Jump to bent arm hang, hands in outside grasp on beams and travel

forw. to farther end; down.	,

2.	Same as ex. 1, but hands in ordinary grasp on the rounds.

3.	As ex. 1, but backw.

As ex. 2, but backw., hands in reverse grasp on the rounds.

Digitized by
a

-22 2 -

b. Jump to side bent arm hang, hands in outside grasp on the rounds and travel sidew. 1. with legs spread wide sidew.

6.	Jump to outside side bent arm hang, hands in ordinary grasp on the beam, travel sidew. 1. with knees raised forw.

~. As ex. 1, but with both legs raised forw.

8.	As ex. 1, with lower legs raised backw. and move both hands simultaneously.

9.	As ex. 1, with both knees raised forw., but travel backw. and move both hands simultaneously.

10.	As ex. 5, but move both hands simultaneously.

11.	An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Execulc exercises 5 and 6 sidew. r.

"	“	7,	8,	9	backw.

Second Division.—High Horizontal Ladder.

Repeat the exercises, for the most part of the first division, however, omit the leg exercise whenever too difficult.

Change place with the first division on the long horse.

Second Division.—Long Horse (height of chest).

A short run precedes all exercises.

1.	Stride jump 1. (toward the r.) over croup with *4 turn 1* t° front side rest; knee stand on croup; dismount forw.

2.	Stride jump 1. (toward the r.) over croup with y2 turn 1. to cross «eat on r. thigh; front vault dismount sidew. r.

3.	Stride jump 1. (toward the r.) over the croup with y2 turn h to cross stand on the r. side of the horse.

-. Front scissors mount (V2 turn 1. or r.) to front leaning rest; lower to straddle seat, then swing both legs backw., close them and immediately straddle dismount forw.

f>. As ex. 4, but instead of straddle dismount 4/4 turn over forw. with bent arms to back cross stand on the near end.

Rear vault 1. with 3/o turn r*

9.	An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Execute all movement* I. an ’ r whenever possible.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same exercises. The third to begin on the low horizontal bar and the fourth on the long buck.

Low Horizontal Bar (height of chest).

In front side stand —

1.	Jump to front rest, hands in ordinary grasp; swing off forw. (4/4 turn).

2.	Jump with y2 turn 1. to hack rest; swing off backw. (4/4 turn).

Jump to front rest, then underswing to back side stand.

Jump to front rest with reverse grasp; raise hips, spread legs wide and place insteps under the bar; circle forw. and down, (swing off).

Digitized by
-223-

5.	Front hang and raise both feet to bar; squat bac-kw. and extend both legs npw. to back hang; turn over backw. and down.

G. As ex. 5, to back hang; return in reverse order, underswing and down.

7.	Front hang and raise both feet to bar, then squat backw. 1. to knee hang; kneeswing up forw.; circle r. leg 1. to meet the r. in back rest; swing off backw. to front side stand.

8.	As ex. 7, to knee hang I.; kneeswing up backw.; screw dismount forw. with y± turn 1.

1*. Front hip circle backw. to front rest; dismount backw.

10.	As ex. 9, to front rest and underswing to back side stand on the farther side.

• Jl. An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Two members may practice simultaneously when possible, however, standing on opposite sides with proper distance apart.

Long Buck (height of chest to height of shoulder).

A short run precedes all exercises.

1.	Jump to momentary free front rest on the 1. arm only, spring off of 1. foot, swing the r. leg forw. obi. outw. and land forw. obi. on the r. side of buck to cross stand.

2.	As ex. 1, circle around the buck on the r. side to back cross stand (on farther side).

3.	As ex. 1, but with y2 turn 1. before landing.

4.	Jump to momentary free front rest with y{ turn 1. to front side stand on the r. side of the buck; straddle vault forw.

5.	As ex. 4, but to front side rest; straddle vault dismount forw.

6.	Jump with y2 turn 1. to cross seat on the r. thigh; front vault dismount sidew. r.

7.	Jump with % turn 1. to back side rest; y2 circle 1. with 1. leg (backw.) to side riding rest on the r. thigh; dismount sidew. 1.

8.	- Rear vault swing r. to straddle seat in front of hands; place hands in

front of thighs; raise both legs backw., close them and immediately straddle vault dismount forw.

C. Rear vault r.

10.	An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Execute all exercises 1. and r. whenever possible. If two bucks are available then let two practice at a time.

Remove all the apparatus from the floor and prepare for the game “Three Deep Tag.” Partners are to face each other and grasp hands. The runner, in order to escape, steps between a conple and the one he faces toward must run away and becomes the runner. The former than turns around and joins hands with partner. The one who is “It” as well as the runner keep on the outside the circle.

After conclusion of the game clap hands once and dismiss.

(To be continued )

Digitized by UooQle
-224-

EXHIBITION work.

Dumbbell Exercises for the 7th Grade of the Indianapolis

Public Schools.

(Continued.)

Two counts to each movement.

GROUP I.

Exercise 1. Raise arms forward (striking bells) and point step right forward 1—2.

Swing arms sideward and point step right.sideward 3—4. Swing arms forward (striking bells) and point step right forward 5—6.

Starting position 7—8. Left 9—1G. Repeat 17—32. Exercise 1. Raise sideward and bend arms, dumbbells over shoulders and step right forward 1—2.

Extend forearms sideward 3—4.

Bend arms 5—6.

Starting position 7—8. Left 9—16. Repeat 17—32. Exercise 3. Raise arms sideward and step right forward 1—2.

Raise arms upward (striking bells) and bend right knee 3—4. Lower arms sideward and straighten knee 5—6.

Starting position 7—8. Left 9—16. Repeat 17—32.

Exercise 4. Raise arms sidewr. upw. (striking bells) and knee bend 1—2 Swing arms sidew. downw. (striking bells behind hips) and straighten knees 3—4.

Raise arms sidew. upw\ (striking bells) and V? knee bend 5—6 Starting position 7—8. Repeat 9—32.

Sixteen counts rest.

GROUP II.

Exercise 1. Arms downwanl, trunk bending forward 1—2.

Swing arms -iiew’ard and straighten trunk 3—4.

Arms downv'ard and bend trunk forward 5—6.

Starting position 7—8. Repeat 9—32.

Exercise 2. Raise sidew. and bend arms, dumbbells over shoulders 1—2.

Extend arms sideward and bend trunk sideward right 3—4. Bend arms over shoulders and straighten trunk 5—6.

Starting position 7—8. Repeat 9—32.

Exercise 3. Raise arms sideward and turn trunk to the right 1—2.

Raise arms upward (striking hells) 3—4.

Lower arms sideward 5—6.

Starting position 7—8. Left 9—16. Repeat 17—32.

Exercise 4. Raise arms sideward upward (striking bells) 1—2.

Swing arms sideward downward and bend trunk forw. 3—4. Raise arms sideward upward (striking bells) and straighten trunk 5—6.

Starting position 7—8. Repeat 9—32.

Sixteen counts rest.

Digitized by C.ooQle
-225-

GROUP III.

Exercise 1. Arras downwaid and bend trunk forward 1—2.

Swing arms sideward, straighten trunk and lunge right forward 3—4.

Arras downward, bend trunk forward, return right leg (heels together) 5—6.

Starting position 7—8. Left 9—16. Repeat 17—32.

Exercise 2. Raise sideward and bend arms (bells over shoulders) and charge right sideward 1—2.

Extend forearms sideward and bend trunk right sidew. 3—1.

Bend arms and straighten trunk 5—6.

Starting position 7—8.	Left	9—16.	Repeat 17—32.

Exercise 3. Raise arms sideward, twist trunk to the right and charge right sideward 1—2.

Raise arms upward (striking bells) 3—1.

Lower arms sideward 5—6.

Starting position 7—8. Left 9—16. Repeat 17—32.

Exercise 4. Raise arms sideward upward (striking bells) and charge right forward 1—2.

Swing arms sideward downward, bend trunk forward 3—4.

Swing arms sideward upward (striking bells) and straighten trunk 5—6.

Starting position 7—8. Left 9—16. Repeat 17—32.

Eight counts rest.

Grouping eight counts.

Boys: Step left sideward stride stand and raise arms forward upward.

Girls: Step left forward and dumbbells over shoulders.

(To be concluded.)

PROGRESSIVE DODGE BALL.

By EMIL RATH, Pittsburg, Pa.

Progressive Dodge Ball is a game suitable for all pupils of gymnasium classes over ten years of age, and it is particularly enjoyed by the young men’s and women’s classes.

It requires dividing the class into three teams (by counting off to 3’s), the use of a basket ball, a score-board or score-card, and the dividing of the floor into three rectangular fields or territories by drawing two lines across it, making the center field somewhat larger than the two end or outer fields and furthermore a designated place near eacli field for the players that are ‘‘out.” (For this purpose the parallel bars serve very well.)

The teams may be designated “One,” “Two,” “Three,” or “Red,” “White” and “Blue.” The number of players on a team is unlimited, but is governed to some extent, however, by the size of the gymnasium. There may be from 5 to 20 players on each team.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-226-

Throe innings are played, each of five minutes duration (or longer, it desirable). Each inning begins on the signal from the teacher (blowing of a whistle) and ends with the call of time, when the teams change fields.

The three teams line up as shown up in the cut at the beginning of the game, and also at the beginning of the second and third innings, excepting that the teams will then have changed places:

The two outer teams always play against the team in the center A player hit by a flying ball is called “out.”

This gives the following possibilities:

A player on the center team may be hit by any player of the two outer teams.

A player on either of the two outer teams may be hit by a plaj'er on the center team, but it is not permissible for any player from either outer team to hit a player on the other

But a ball thrown by a player on either outer team, across the center teiritory, may be caught by a player on the other.

The teacher begins the game by blowing the whistle and at the same time tossing the ball to the players of the center team which in this case shall be “White,” and standing in the center of their territory. The two outer teams, “Bed” and “Blue,” are standing with one foot on the boundary lines of the center territory and at the sound of the whistle run as far to the rear of their respective fields as the gymnasium will permit, to avoid being hit. The player of “White” who has caught the ball tossed by the teacher, runs up to either the left or the right boundary line of his field and throws at one of the end teams (“Bed” or “Blue”); or he may pass it quickly to a player of his side standing near the boundary line, ready to throw, who then must throw.

The players of the center teams may dodge in any manner to avoid being hit, but are not allowed to hide behind any object. The player from “White” having thrown, a player from the side thrown at—let us assume it to be the “Red”—tries to catch the ball before it rebounds or to]is into the center territory. If successful, he passes the ball or runs with it up to the boundary line and thrown at the “White” who dodge and run to the opposite end of their field. If he fails to hit, one of the team at the other end—the “Blue’'—standing in readiness, catches the

Digitized by
ball and throws at the “White.” Thus the two end teams “Red” and •‘Blue” continue to play against “White” as long as they are in possession of the hall, and “White” keeps dodging and fleeing from one side of its territory to the other. Usually this does not last very long, for the ball happens frequently to bounce or roll into the center territory, when “White” again gets he ball and throws, as in the beginning, at either “Red” or “Blue.”

Thus the game continues, “Red” and “Blue” playing against “White.” Every time a player is hit “on a fly”—not on a bounce—the teacher blows the whistle and the hit player leaves the field for the previously determined place. The game need not stop for this reason unless a great number are playing and continuing might cause confusion. The inning is continued until time is called by the teacher.

At the conclusion of each inning the players hit of each team are counted and the number marked on the score-board or card, for instance, under first inning:

Inning	1.	2.	3.	Total.
Red	0			!
White	5			!  t
Blue	o			

The teams now change fields, from right to left, in the following manner:	“Blue”	moves to the center, “White” moves to the left, and

“Red” moves to the right field, and all the hit players return to their respective teams. The teams form in exactly the same way as at the beginning of the game, and the teacher again tosses the ball to he team in the center territory (“Blue”). The game continues as before, until time is called. The scores made are marked under the second inning, and the last change of fields takes place, so that in the three innings each team will have played in each field.

After the score of the third inning is marked, the scores of the three innings are added, and the team having the lowest score wins the game. When the number of players is equal on each team, the scoring may be done by counting the players left at the conclusion of each inning, in stead of the number hit. In this case the team scoring the highest number is the winner.

A player is not deemed “out” if hit only by a ball bouncing from the floor, a wall, an object, or from another player.

A player is not “out” if the thrower overstepped the line.

A player is “out” only if hit by a ball “on a direct fly,” thrown from behind the line.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—228—

The ball belongs to the team of a territory, 1) whenever it rolls or bounces into its territory; 2) when stopped on a bounce subsequent to a throw from an opposing team; 3) when in trying to catch a thrown ball a player succeeds with his hands over the boundary line, or when he drrps it beyond the line. (This occurs frequently when the two end teams have the ball.)

If the gymnasium is small the stopping of the ball with the sole of the foot ,in order to get possession, may be permitted without authorizing a being called “out for it”; but this takes considerable from the running and dodging of the game.

The game increases in interest as the rules become better known, and in time becomes very animating. It is a game in which all the players are occupied all the time, making it very valuable for the gymnasium.

DECALOGUE OF HYGIENE.

RULES, WHICH, IF FOLLOWED, INSURE GOOD HEALTH.

Dr. Decornet, of Fierte sur Aube, France, was announced as the winner of a prize offered by a well-known publishing house for the best ten maxims for preserving the health, which were to be published in the "Annual Almanac,” issued by the firm. These are the prize maxims:

(1)	General Hygiene.—Rise early; go to bed early, aud in the meantime keep yourself occupied.

(2)	Respiratory Hygiene.—Water and bread sustain life, but pure air and sunlight are indispensable for health.

(3)	Gastro-Intestinal Hygiene.—Frugality and sobriety are the best vital elixir for a long life.

(4)	Epidermal Hygiene.—Cleanliness preserves from rust; the best-kept machines last longest.

(5)	Hygiene of Sleep.—A suffiency of rest repairs and strengthens; too much sleep weakens and makes soft.

(6)	Hygiene of Clothing.—He is well clothed who keeps his body sufficiently warm, safe-guarding it from all abrupt changes of temperature, while at the same time maintaining perfect freedom of motion.

(7)	Dwelling Hygiene.—A house that is clean and cheerful makes a happy home.

(8)	Moral Hygiene.—The mind reposes and resumes its edge by means of relaxation and amusement, but excess opens the door to the passions, and these attract the vices.

(9)	Intellectual Hygiene.—Gayety conduces to love of life, and love of life is the half of health; on the other hand, sadness and gloom help on old age.

(10)	Professional Hygiene.—If it is your br&in that feeds you, don’t allow your arms and legs to become anchylosed. Do you dig for a livelihood, don’t omit to burnish your intellect and elevate your thoughts.

Digitized by

Google
-229-

INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS ON SCHOOL HYGIENE.

The Second International Congress on School Hygiene, convening in London August 3rd to 10th, gave notable evidence of the supreme importance of good health. About 2000 delegates and visitors from many countries attended, and nearly 250 papers and communication* were rehd or discussed. The work of the congress was considered under eleven sections, meeting concurrently in several halls. The subjects were:

1.	The Physiology and Psychology of Educational Methods and Work.

2.	Medical and Hygienic Inspection in Schools.

3.	The Hygiene of the Teaching Profession.

4.	Instruction in Hygiene for Teachers and Scholars.

5.	Physical Education and Training in Personal Hygiene.

6.	Out of School Hygiene; Holiday Camps and Schools; The Relation of Home

and School.

7.	Contagious Diseases, III Health and Other Conditions Affecting School

Attendance.

8.	Special Schools for Feeble Minded and Exceptional Children.

9.	Special Schools for Blind, Deat and Dumb Children.

10.	Hygiene of Residential Schools.

11.	The School Building and Its Equipment.

The fact that regular medical inspection of schools or school children, either as a state institution or under local organization has been established in France, Germany, Austria, Belgium, Norway, Switzerland, Russia, Servia, the United States, Japan, Egypt, the Argentine Republic, and Chile, was reported by Sir James Chrichton-Browne, and the holding of such a congress in London evidenced, he hoped, that “in this dilatory country” it would be adopted before long. The subjects discussed by the call for the congress on school hygiene varied widely from the Ringworm Question in Elementary Schools to A Comparison Between the Training Given by Classic and Modern Languages. The interest taken by the government of Great Britain as well as other countries was marked. King Edward, a patron of the congress, being unable to attend, he was represented at the opening session by the Earle of Crewe. Putting himself in the position of a taxpayer—“the forgotton man”—who has not had the opportunity to study it in all its ramifiactions the question of school hygiene, he emphasized the fact that unless the schools were able to prove that the money they were already spending was laid out to the greatest national advantage, and that they were not, by the neglect of all hygienic precautions, making themselves, to a certain extent, nurseries of paupers and criminals, they would have a bad case when they went to the taxpayer for more money. The test of efficiency to determine policy was the ideal presented by the congress. It was further admitted that the present system of overcrowding rooms, of “cramming as a means of cultivation,” and of insistence upon school attendance, in season, were very injurious to the health of children and pre-eminently wasteful. The comment of an eminent statistician and observer, Dr. Arthur Ncwsholme, that “with the ordinary ventilation, which is provided in

Digitized by i^ooQle
-230-

the majority of schools, the atmosphere in an ordinary school room is as much fouler than that of the average house of the poor, as is that of a church during a Sunday evening service than the air of a middle class house” might cause the hygienist as well as the taxpayer to consider the need of school hygiene. On account of the great danger from contagious diseases to young children and to the community, Dr. Newsholme advocated that children under live or even seven should not be permitted to attend the same school as older children, and stated that they would be as far advanced in a few years as children who started younger. He advocated the provision of creches if necessary as a better method of caring for very young children than sending them to school at three as is often done in England. Dr. Wm. Osier, chairman of the section on the medical and hygienic inspection of schools, considered the subject from two points of view. (1) the means whereby we may take stock of the children of the nation and (2) the means whereby we are to deal practically with conditions of ill health which hinder the normal physical and mental growth of children. He admitted the practical difficulties in the administration of such inspection, and put upon administrative authorities the responsibility of finding some way to have the work done by good men who should be suitably paid. Another speaker claimed that medical inspection in schools would interfere with the care of the family as a whole, particularly if children were not permitted to attend school till six or seven. Dr. W. Leslie McKenzie, medical member of the local government for Scotland, widened the scope of medical inspection of school children on the ground that it must take account of the primary factors: First, the sanitation of the environment, and second, the health of the individual as affected by environment and heredity. He would have the home as well as the school environment well known, and at least the occupation of the father, the number of rooms in the house and the number of occupants ascertained. His conception “that the school is a specialized organ of the home, and that school in education is a specialized function of the home” justifies such a plan. The opponents of his plan of inspection and examination objected to what they claimed would be only superficial examination, as the family physician would know each child and its family history better than any new physician even when aided bv the school teacher. Likewise the family phvscician could better see that needed treatment was secured for the child. Dr. Shirley Murphy, health officer of London, explained the method by which the difficulty of administration is being met in England by the constitution of the health authority as the education authority, and while admitting that the organization is not yet provided with the necessary machinery, affirmed that the guiding principle must be that the administration which is required to protect the health of the population at all ages must be the one to he concerned with the health of the child of school age whether in the school or in the home. In connection with the congress an exhibit of school building and furnishing apparatus was held, giving good object lessons. The congress marked a distinct advance in the study of the “nationalization of health.”

—‘’Charities.”

Digitized by CjOOQle
—231 —

BOOK REVIEW.

—AMOXG THE FLOOD of national, character and folk dances pouring in upon us at all appropriate and inappropriate times we do not find many that can stand the test of calm criticism by open-minded teachers. Too many savor of the stage, and others seem strongly out of place among us here in America. It is therefore with pleasure that we call the attention of our readers to a few collections that give the best of these dances from the mirth of Europe and Germany. Two of the books are published by the Flanagan Company of Chicago @ 75 cents, i. e. ‘Singing Games Old and New” and “Popular Folk Games and Dances,” both collected and arranged by Mari R. Hofer. The other is a very good litile book in German entitled „Tanzspiele und Singtaenze,” collected by Gertrud Meyer, price 45 cents. The three books have music and the text, md can be recommended to all teachers who wish to familiarize them-uelves with folk dances.

These books may be had from “Mind and Body,” Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

—EDUCATION BY PLAYS AND GAMES. By C. E. Johnson, Superintendent of Municipal Playgrounds. Pittsburg, Pa. 12 mo. Cloth. 234 pages. Illustrated. Mailing price, $1.00.

The study of which this book is a revision was begun at Clark University and published in the “Pedagogical Seminary” in 1894. Since then the writer has been in very intimate and almost constant touch with children. His interest in child play, awakened and kept alive by observation and personal relationship with children in clubs, play schools, the school playground, and the home circle, has been encouraged by numberless requests from teachers for the little study published ten years ago. Largely in response of these requests, this revision has been undertaken.

The volume falls into two divisions. In the first, a discussion of the meaning of play, of the relation of play and work, and of the history of play and its application to education, provides the point of view from which to work in using the Course of Plays and Games, which forms the second part.

These games, with descriptions for playing, have been selected from a thousand or more, and are carefully graded according to the different periods of the child’s development. At the beginning of each group a discussion of the characteristics of the period to which it belongs makes clear the relation of the games and plays to the development of the child. It must be recognized that while the variations of children’s games are well-nigh infinite, the essential features are few. Therefore, since most new games are found under examination to be merely modifications of old ones, the older games have been selected.

The aim of the whole study is, mainly, to suggest,—to provide a groundwork upon which each teacher may build to suit her peculiar needs. The book, published by Ginn & Co. of Boston, is recommended to our readers as it will help to promote a wider appreciation of play and its value in education, and thus add somewhat to the sum of happiness in the world.

Digitized by v^ooQle