PUBLISHED MONTHLY.—SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.00 PER YEAR.

Vol. ii.	MAY,	1904.	No.	123

Emtorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, Nerw Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Geneseo State Normal School, Geneseo, N. Y.

W. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Director, Muegge Institute, St Louis, Mo. DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760— 3rd St., Milwaukee. Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

THE MEDICAL ASPECT OF APPARATUS GYMNASTICS AND PARALLEL BAR EXERCISES IN PARTICULAR.

From a Lecture by Dr. med. OTZ of Muxten.

(Translated by CARL L SCHRADER.)

THE effects of the different bodily exercises upon our organs vary very decidedly. First it is the respiration which is being influenced and with it the closely related action of the heart and circulation. Then a direct influence is perceptible upon nutrition and change of tissue. Next the nervous system, including the brain, receives its share of benefit; and finally the musculature and the bony structure are stimulated to greater responsiveness and development.

The specific strength exercises, as practiced on the several apparatus, such as horizontal bars, parallel bars, etc., and which are to form the subject of this discussion, so far as they are taken during the developmental period between 9 and 20, have been the object of occasional attacks. Youthful age, uselessness, yea, even danger, have been mentioned as arguments against the value of these exercises. The school

Digitized by Google
authorities anticipating and fearing a reduction of the time allotted to scientific studies through the growing demand of physical training searched everywhere to prove at least the uselessness of these exercises. Whether the respective teachers had performed these exercises themselves while students or whether they only learned of them since their employment as teachers, was taken into consideration.

Physical training must not merely be a means to an end: to restore to some extent the physical health which has become impaired in school and social life; but must become an institution for both mind and body, a means for education and training, equal in importance to any other branch of the curriculum. A successful course of physical training manifests itself in an increased capacity for learning throughout school life. Those who have their senses of hearing and sight sharpened on the gymnasium floor will not be likely to let much go unnoticed in the classroom. The rapid execution of commands will enable the pupil to respond with equal readiness to questions, to write faster, in fact, to perform all his work with greater ease. Intention and decision to act will be more precise in the mental domain when the physical training demands precision. Order movements or rhythmical exercises of course do not suffice. But lead a child to play or, still better, to apparatus exercises and he will be right in his element. A formerly obstinate child grows pliable and happy on the gymnasium floor; a quiet or a sulky one becomes talkative and interested, an apathetic child undertaking. This leads us to the raison d’etre of physical training*

A teacher must aim to impart confidence and love of exercise to the child through care and love. Severity and military discipline utterly fail in this direction. Led with a certain sympathy a pupil will try any kind of exercises, especially those upon apparatus, where confidence in the teacher will overcome his fear, though the apparent danger may be only imaginary. The experience of properly qualified gymnasium directors has established the fact that pupils, girls included, manifest a decided preference for exercises upon the apparatus which require patience, endurance and courage. Continual playing and drill work grow tiresome and tend to lessen the interest as all one-sided work must do. Variety of exercise must, therefore, be aimed at in any method of physical training.

Besides pedagogical considerations and principles the different periods of life require careful attention since certain kinds of exercises are best suited for particular ages only. Between the ages of fi and 9 growth needs stimulation of the secondary organs, viz. circulation, breathing and metabolism. Upon the correct development of these organs and their functions depend physical energy and the power of resistance throughout life. The exercise most suitable at this age is found in play which exactly meets the demand of the youthful mind and body. Every form of exertion, even local, is to be avoided as is also the overtaxation of the nervous system by premature drill. Running, hopping and skipping, on the other hand, are highly stimulating to the growth and development of the spinal column. With the progress of its development the skeleton is being rendered more solid and strong and it permits of more vigorous muscular activity for purpose of skill.

Digitized by v^ooQle
—59—

Between the ages of 9 to 14 additional factors need observance, especially correctness of carriage and grace of motion. Here we record the beginning of exercises for skill and localized strength, exercises upon apparatus. Muscular exertion, however, is still to be avoided. These exercises should be the counterpart of those designed for developing the lower extremities as in running, jumping, etc. To the age of 20 when the physical development approaches its climax and growth ceases these exercises are accordingly to J>e increased.

All of these exercises are not only essential because of their physical influence, but because during the gradual progress from the simple exercise to the complex the individual has been endowed with mental qualities, as circumspection, fearlessness, presence of mind and courage. To the local strength exercises are now added the general strength exercises. Exercises of speed also increase numerically together with those of endurance. So much for the training during school life.

The physical exercises which are taken up in mature life up to about thirty years include mostly those of the highest skill. Hereafter a gradual descent takes place with increasing age.

Our attention is to remain centered upon the age between 9 to 20, and especially the apparatus exercises which are:	“Local strength

exercises from the resting and. hanging position on the parallel and horizontal bars, exercises of skill on the same apparatus, consisting of combined swinging exercises and bar vaulting/’ The efforts in these exercises may be increased to a maximum exertion of a limited muscle area, as that of arm and shoulder. Exercises affecting the muscles of the chest, shoulder and neck must not be carried to this extent, however. The results then present themselves as follows: Increase of power of the muscles involved, stimulation of nutrition and change of tissue. An all-around command over the musculature for mastering definitely prescribed examples of movements marks a high coordinative power, and lung, heart and circulation experience a moderate increase in action.

Temporary disturbances in the rhythmical breathing only occur during the acts of exertion. This fact needs 'Special attention since such disturbances can and ought to be avoided in weak and awkward children. This physiological disturbance is prevalent in all strength exercises where a maximum of work is performed by one or more muscles, especially those located in the arm and shoulder. We may depict the process as follows: Since the bony structure is the frame for the muscles and both form a combined whole, every muscle contraction sufficiently strong is transmitted to the immediate as well as to the more distant muscle groups and bones. If, for example, we exert the arm and shoulder muscles, those muscles which move neck and trunk, must needs fix their parts by rigid contraction. This working together we call coordination. It is caused by “reflex action of the nervous system.” Our localized strength or skill exercises are, therefore, a school of coordination for large and distant muscle areas of the skeleton, first of all, nerve gymnastics and secondarily, muscle gymnastics. By fixing neck and thorax the arm muscles can do their best work. Simultaneous with this fixation we usually indulge in a deep inspiration followed by a pause in breathing. A heavy pressure results

Digitized by Google
—60—

in the thoracic cavity, the ventricles empty taster and more completely and the coronary arteries close by this mechanism. Simultaneously the filling of the auricles is retarded and the venous flow is checked, as may be noticed in the swelling of the large veins of neck and temple and by the reddening of the face. After the act of exertion is past which in apparatus work is short but more prolonged in wrestling and lifting heavy weights, etc., the air which was withheld in the lungs and is now laden with carbonic acid is being expelled, and with the next deep inspiration the venous blood rushes into the auricles. At this stage the right heart with its thin walls undergoes a hyperextension.

We have, then, a number of disturbances in the breathing, in the circulation, in the nourishing of the heart and in the heart action. The teacher’s attention must reckon with these phenomena and their significance. In weaklings and awkward children he must try to prevent them by careful procedure. The degrees of skill in performing these ’ exercises determine the degrees of disturbance. The momentary fatigue is succeeded by a rapid recuperation in as much as the normal rhythm in breathing is restored automatically and in proportion to the pre-• ceding exertion. The mode of breathing during an exertion, too, may be such as to prevent any disturbance. For example: It would be wrong to breathe during an exercise in the bent-arm rest on the parallel bars just when the bending or dipping which is the moment of exertion is being performed. Right the contrary should be insisted on, namely to exhale, at this moment. In rowing, too, it is the correct mode of breathing which makes it a good and healthful sport.

In passing judgment upon the benefits to be derived from exercise we must not take into consideration their misuse since this is avoidable. We must also make provision that the construction of the apparatus is correct in every detail.

Exercises upon apparatus are a most happy addition to our present method of training. One must experience for himself the feeling of satisfaction which comes while swinging between the parallel bars in perfect form, supported on rigid arms. The tight grasp on the bars awakens the consciousness of the will power over the body and inspires one with courage. If these apparatus exercises are carried on under the guidance of a teacher, which is the case in the class exercises, we create a correct relation between the nervous system and the muscles, namely the superiority of the former over the latter.

It remains now to relate the necessity of gymnastics for girls from a physical point of view. This problem forms a part of the general question of woman’s emancipation which is in evidence in all civilized lands and has been partly solved in some. There never was a time when physical training as a whole did not have its opponents. So we find many to-day', very many indeed, opposing such training for the female sex.

The greatest objection is being raised to apparatus work, such as the above named. Now, why should girls not exercise on the parallel bars? First of all, the same laws prevail here as were quoted above. The parallel bars offer a wealth of exercise which cannot be substituted in any other form. The symmetric exercises on the double bar in hand

Digitized by t^ooQle
—61-

rest, swinging and vaulting have not their equal in any other manner. The construction ol a perfect piece of apparatus will permit of any necessary adjustment so that the individual dimensions can be accommodated. Then, too, the quality of exercises may be suited to correct under-developed parts, as for instance the shoulder girdle.

Frequently we are told that next to the growth in height nature particularly intended the development of the pelvic girdle particular to woman to fully perform the future functions; furthermore, that the shoulder girdle and the bones in general as well as the muscles of woman are less developed than in man which in itslf was to be taken as a sign that nature intended it thus.

Just grant nature here lull scope and let us turn our attention to the evil influences of our modern civilization. It should be no matter of controversy whether it is wise or otherwise to better develop the shoulder girdle io. Woman. The fact that our sisters in general are possessed of a weaker musculature does not prove that it must remain so. We have abundant instances of well developed shoulder girdles in toiling women of different social classes without seeing the functions of • their pelvic organs impaired. The way to accomplish this is to introduce the apparatus exercises as a permanent feature, but in such a way that every exercise be mastered before advancing to a new one. This necessitates a careful planning and grading of exercises, a some-; what more difficult problem since many exercises for boys must be omitted for girls. The best and most effective ones, however, can be retained, as for instance, exercises from hang, from support and swinging. All of these exercises stimulate in increasing degrees the willpower and call forth determination and courage. The nervous system, as stimulator and regulator of the organism, hereby exercises the co-ordinative part. A healthy nervous* system is the fruitful soil for the development of a morally tempered and intellectual life.

To educate woman to energy and determination of purpose will be a blessing to all mankind.

—The following circular has been sent to the phvsical directors of the Y. M. C. A.:

SEVENTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE OF PBNN’A. PHYSICAL DIRECTORS, PHILA., JUNE 6—11.

Dear Sir:—You are cordially invited to attend the Seventh Annual Conference of Pennsylvania Physical Directors to be held in Philadelphia the early part of June.

The attendance at the conference increases every year, and we hope to have a larger number of physical directors piesent this year than ever before.

The committee feels assured that the program to be arranged for this con- . ference will surpass that of any of the previous ones.

Every man is expected to wear his gymnasum suit and take an active part in the practical work, in the “gym” or outdoors.

Physical directors from many states have attended this conference and testify to its practicability and helpfulness.

Will consider it a favor if you will fill out the inclosed blank and suggest anything you would like to have come up at the conference, by doing so you will assist the committee in arranging the program.

Hoping you can be with us, and that I will hear from you at an earlj date, I remain	Yours	very	truly,

Harry C. Hoffmann, Sec’y Treas.

Y. M. C. A., Harrisburg, Pa.

Digitized by
JAPS ARE GREAT WRESTLERS.

JIU-JITSU HAS 300 MOVES THAT AN EXPERT MUST KNOW, AND HE CAN THEN DEFEAT ANY STRONG MAN IGNORANT OF THEM.

TANI, the Japanese wrestler, was in the midst of a bout with an alert, muscular young Englishman from the Mile End Road. The Englishman was doing very well and the audience at the Royal, Hol-bom, were enthusiastically on his side, urging him with shouts of encouragement, native to East End, to hold on like death.

The odds seemed to be in his favor. He was the bigger man of the two, and apparently the stronger. He had good, stout limbs, yet he was lithe and quick. It seemed absurd to set him against the short, slight, wiry Japanese, who looked even less than his eight stone ten.

And the Japanese was down on his back, and the Englishman held him with a grip of iron, and the Mile End Road thought he could do it for the five minutes that remained of the stipulated 15, and thus win the prize.

Suddenly there was a change. The Japanese wriggled out of trouble like a cat. He stepped around his opponent as lightly as if he were waltzing, seized a wrist, hitched the man down with a leg trip, and at once, sinking on his back at right angles to the Englishman, threw his leg across the man's neck and held him there like a log until Mile End Road tapped the mat in signal of defeat.

There were some murmurings among the audience. It looked suspiciously as if the Japanese had half strangled his opponent, and the Englishman's admission from the stage that he had nothing to complain of scarcely removed the impression. I went behind the scenes afterward and Tani showed me this particular fall.

‘•Well,” said he, “3’ou are in the street and you desire my life. You have a heavy dagger and I have none. You make a downward plunge —so; and see what happens.”

I	made the downward plunge in a double sense. Quick as lightning Tani had me by the wrist, his other hand pressed hard on m3' shoulder, the back of his leg pressing inward on the back of mine.

I went sprawling on my back, Tani slipped down on his and his leg was curled over my throat. But that was the least part of the operation, only designed to keep my head in position. Tani had retained his hold on my wrist and now held it with both hands. The slightest struggle on my part exerted a. pressure on the elbow which went near , to breaking the arm. With my disengaged hand I beat a violent tattoo on the mat to indicate that I was convinced.

“That's all very well with me, being no lion in strength,’’ 1 said. “But what would happen with Hackenschmidt ? You couldn't get his arm down for that lock.”

“This,” said the Japanese—and he quickly turned the arm the other way, fixing the lock of exquisite agony. “In fact,” he pursued, “the bigger the man the better I like him. It is his strength, not mine, that does the mischief. That stands to reason. If I put on a lock he cannot

Digitized by v^ooQle
break, the harder he may struggle against it the greater the damage he enjoys.”

To correctly appreciate jiu-jitsu, it is necessary to understand that it is more than a sport, designed to teach the student to meet every form of attaek that may be made upon him.

It was developed by men who had made a profound study of anatomy and the laws of leverage and force; and it was perfected by generation after generation of clever men. Every boy of the samurai or warrior class was taught it, and it was their favorite form of competitive sport.

There is one deadly grip which always offends English notions of fair play. That is what Apollo, Tani’s manager, christened the knockout blow.

Tani grips both sides of your collar, hands crossed, palms outward, puts one fopt on your thigh, and falls backward. You fall with him. Retaining his double grip on the collar and his leg on the thigh, he rolls over and you roll over with him. Then, like a cat, he is sitting astride your chest, and you are done.

This grip is generally regarded by British audiences as a strangle, and it has been known to provoke howls of protest. But it is not a strangle, as I can testify by personal experience. The pressure is ail at the sides and back of the neck, the windpipe not being touched.

Appollo tried it and found the sensation that of “floating among clouds in a perfectly happy state.” He wondered how it was done, and Tani could not explain.

Then he read that a Dutch physician, while sojourning among the Japanese, found that the native doctors, when performing slight operations, used no anaesthetics, but simply applied pressure to the carotid artery, by which means the patient was rendered unconscious.

That was the explanation of the Japanese knock-out grip. Pressure on the two carotid arteries arrested the flow of blood to the brain, and the victim, if he was too proud to give the signal, drifted out of conscious existence.

I asked Tani to show me his reply to a kick. He allowed me to kick him, but he caught the foot, twisted the toe around, and on the instant had me sprawling, on the mat, tied up in a contorted knot, from which I was uncommonly glad to be released.

One thing which I particularly noticed in these falls was that Tani left me to do the hard work. He cajoled me off my balance, I fell, as he wanted me to fall, and he then had me in a lock wherein, if I was anxious for a broken bone, the breaking had to come from me. He wrestles as if he were playing chess, and while you are still standing, he makes the hold which he exercises when you are thrown.

Apollo admits that after two years’ constant practice with Tani he began to “rather fancy himself” at the art. So one day he made a wager with Tani that he could withstand him for 15 minutes. And in exactly three minutes Apollo was beaten by a hold that he had never seen before. It is asserted that there are some 300 moves in the game with which a wrestler must be familiar before he is regarded as a master.

But, as Tani says, why use more variations than you need? “There

Digitized by Tooele
-64-

were two of us, and we used to show the art of defense against a street attack. My comrade, he attack-me, and I throw hiri out. But what use is that? We do it so quickly that the people think it is a made-up job, some juggling, or something, and they only laugh. It is the same when two Japanese wrestle on the stage. If you do not know the fine points of the game, how can you see they are good ?

“And so it is better for me to wrestle with your Englishmen, so that you can see how wc combat their attacks. And how I should love to try it on one of your biggest champions! But they want me to play their game, which I do not know : and if it is a game merely of strength, how shall a man of nine stone beat a man of fourteen ?”—Londx Express.

OUR NATIONAL GAME AS A FACTOR IN EDUCATION.

By ARTHUR J. ARNOLD.

BASE BALL! The great, national game of the American people!

Which one of the many outdoor sports so well known to us can be compared with it? It is the greatest joy of the small boy; a source of honor to the young man of the high school or university; the bread Of life to the professional. And it serves all purposes admirably, not only to the player, but to the spectator as well, for no other game is so fascinating and so wholesome at the same time. No matter where you may go- at this time of the year you will see boys of all ages playing base ball. Almost every vacant lot has its quota of embryo players. You see the joyous little fellow of five or six playing with an old yarn or cord ball, or you may see the older brother, who fields his position with all the ease and grace of the professional. If you wait until a little later in the season you may, some fine day, go out to Fairview Park and watch the doctors play the lawyers. Notice how they seem to enjoy the game and you cannot fail to realize that it is the one that suits all ages; which all enjoy with equal pleasure. This is the reason why it has such a hold on the hearts of the American people.

And this very American game is so well known to each and every one of us that we seldom give a thought to the good resulting from it. or to the lasting part which it plays in the education of the American youth. The fact that the game is so interesting is always uppermost in our minds; we are so susceptible to its excitement that we fail to realize what good it really brings to us.

The first thing the little chap of six or seven, who wishes to follow in the footsteps of his elder brothers on the ball field, learns is to obey. He knows that the older boys unerstand more about the game than he does. So when they tell him to do this or that he obeys their instructions to the letter. Until he attains his full size he will always play, more or less, with older and better players than himself. He values the instruction which they give him and almost consciously learns to obev them. He learns to obey without realizing the fact, but he learns it all the same. As he grows into manhood he will continue to follow the advice of those who know better than he himself does, not only in base ball, but also in whatever business he may pursue.

Control of his temper is an essential requirement of a ball player.

Digitized by CjOOQle
Realizing this, he strives to avoid any display of temper, especially during a game. Instead of getting angry and indulging in unkind remarks should one of his team make $n error, he is always ready to stand by him with his “All right, old boy! That was not your fault,” or some other saying which will cause his unfortunate colleague to resolve then and there that he will not make such an other misplay. Should he get angry, he knows that he will be the target of cutting remarks of the opposing team, to avoid which he must retain his temper at all times.

And self-reliance, one of the most important and lasting benefits to the boy who has played ball ever since he was able to throw one, must not be forgotten. Practice brings self-reliance. The more he plays and the older he grows the more confidence he has in himself. And as he acquires this reliance in himself, this confidence that he can hit or catch the ball at all times, a resulting benefit comes with it. When he goes to the bat with the chances decidedly against him and some one yells, “Hit it, old boy!” he answers in his mind, “I will!” This perseverance, this “I will,” will stay with him throughout his life. No matter what business he may take up, no matter what profession he may pursue, nothing will prove more valuable to him than his “I will” in connection with the self-relianee which he has in himself. He will always be ready. when an opportunity' comes.

And so we might go on naming the various benefits which he receives and acquires. But of all others what one can be compared to that most important of all, a healthy body? The fresh air, the exercise, the enjoyment which comes from playing ball, all combine to give the player the best of health. We cannot expect the boy accustomed to indoor life, who is constantly complaining of headaches and sicknesses of all descriptions, to be very healthy in manhood. Can we then expect the same work, the same success, from him as from the man who has had the benefit of fresh air and pleasant exercise during his entire boyhood and youth? If he be a lawyer, can we expect him to. carry on a trial, which may last for two or three months as do some of them, with the same zeal, with the same power and ability as does his opponent who does not know what sickness is and who is just as fresh and anxious at the end of those several months of hard work as at the beginning? If he be a physician, can we expect him to stand the continuous work, which he may' sometimes be called upon to do in the case of the general prevalence of some dangerous disease, as well as does that physician who has always the best health ? If he be an engineer, whether mechanical, mining or otherwise, can we expect the same work, the same results, from him as from his brother engineer who possesses the healthiest of bodies, and who.is capable of performing his work, whether it be in the shops or id' the mines, day after day and year after year with the same energy and ability? He may have the confidence in himself, but his “I can” is lacking.

With good health, with confidence and reliance in himself and the will to do a thing, with control of temper, with the power to make and carry" out immediate decisions, what cannot be expected from the youth who has all these qualifications of a successful business man? And every one of them can be learned from the great American game

Digitized by CjOOQle
which we all love. Since all real education of the American youth must tend toward producing these traits of character which contribute so materially to a successful life, the game which gives so much enjoyment at the same time that it is bestowing these benefits on the player will always be a most important factor in his education.

RABBITS.

A SOUTH-AFRICAN GYMNASTIC GAME.

SEVERAL hundred Boers have been camping for some time at the armory alongside of our institute. At the World’ Fair they will show scenes of the English-Boer war. Not having much to do at present, they have lots of spare time during which they practice all kinds of running and jumping, and also quite a number of ball and other games. A game which they call “Hasi”—Rabbits, I have never seen before nor have J read a description of it. As it is a fine running game of the “tag” order by means of which they not only had lots of enjoyment but also kept themselves warm during the cold days we have had this spring in St. Louis I will describe it for the benefit of others looking for serviceable games. The playground is an oblong about 20 by 90 feet divided into 14 equally large fields, see diagram. The two playing teams consist each of 9 men, one of which is captain, the one team being guards (hunters) and the other runners (rabbits). The object of the game is for one of the rabbits to pass all the hunters and, after having reached the other end, to again return to the starting place without being tagged. At the start the guards are stationed in their respective lines in the center of the field. During the game they must stay on their own lines, but are allowed to run from side to side; the captain, however, can run in any line (either lengthwise or across). After placing all his men, the captain calls “ready” or “rabbits.” The game is‘then started by one or more of the rabbits crossing over into one of the upper fields without being tagged by a guard. Thus, as the opportunity offers itself, he crosses over and moves forward evading the hunters (guards) who try to tag him. The others follow. Should a rabbit be tagged he is “dead.” These dead rabbits bring about a change of sides, those being rabbits becoming hunters, and vice versa. Should a rabbit succeed in getting across the 8th line he starts back, and now the hunters must watch the rabbits coming from both ends. If a rabbit succeeds in getting to the rear and back again to thr starting point, he cries “Hasi” —“Rabbit,” which signifies a game won for his side, upon which all the runners again start a new game. When more than 18 men play they lay out two grounds adjoining one another, or add more fields to the end of the one. The game is a very lively one and I find that our scholars, adults as well as children, like to play it. My iinformants tell me that the game is played very much in South Africa.

Wm. A. Stecher.

St. Louis, April, 1904.

9	1
	2
	3
	4
	5
	6
	7

8

Digitized by
-67-

SUICIDE IN CHILDHOOD.

IT is contended by some that suicide is a symptom of mental aberration, but while such a view is not in strict accordance with the facts, it will be found that, apart from those unequivocally insane, the suicide is one who hds been ill or has suffered loss or disappointment or ill treatment, real or fancied. Statistics show that suicide is increasing in frequency, and the reasons therefor are too obvious. In the intense stragRfe for existence, in the eager contest for power, in the mad race for place and position, some must inevitably meet defeat and disappointment, and some must be left behind ; and it is among these that is recruited a large part of the army of those that seek refuge and oblivion in self-destruction. The burden naturally falls most heavily on those that have reached maturity, but children do not entirely escape, and it will perhaps be a matter of surprise to many to learn the frequency with which suicide occurs among the young. Thus Dr. Erno Deutsch*) of Budapest has collected from various Continental sources 200 cases of suicide in children, and he refers to 49 additional cases collected by Siegert and to fifty collected by Ferriani.

The causes that lead up to'the commission of the aci are divisible into the general, pre-disposing and the special, exciting. Lack of religious spirit has been assigned as a pre-disposing cause, but suicide is scarcely known among non-religious savages. It has been stated that suicide is more common in proportion to the degree of culture of a community, but this is notably not true of England. There Is, however, a danger in the burden of excessive school work, so generally imposed on children at the present day, with its competitions and examinations, and its inevitable failures and disappointments. Dis turbing political conditions and states of war are of influence only so far as they have an effect on the family. Poverty is a most important factor, the children being overwhelmed by the difficult and often unsuccessful struggle for existence on the part of the parents. Physicians and jurists have been inclined to look on the suicide as an abnormal individual, mentally deficient, and this has been found to be so actually in not a small number of instances. As in adults, the vast majority of suicides in children—up to four-fifths—occur in males. The largest number is observed between the ages of 11 and 15 years, and here, again, there is evidence of the important etiologic influence exerted by school work, suicide in children being most frequent toward the close of the school term.

The exciting causes may be single or multiple. Among the most important of these are punishment and fear of punishment, school matters, psychosis, domestic difficulties and vicious habits. The mode of death depends somewhat on the social position of the parents. Drowning is most common, then hanging, shooting and jumping from windows.

In view of the fact in the case it would seem that the remedy to be applied, in order to diminish the frequency of suicide among adults and children alike, consists in a return to a simpler and less strenuous mode of life, so that mental and physical strain shall be lessened and the measure of individual and communal contentment increased.

*) Deutsches Archiv fuer Kinderheilkunde, 38, B, i, ii, H., p. 27.

Digitized by CaOOQle
A/\i»D and body. ^

Sabseription Price, $1.00 per Year.

Published Monthly.

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

^.Cll'waL'aJEM, Wlaconeln.

* Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold £ldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

«	Entered	at	the	Milwaukee	Post Office as Second Class Matter.

DR. GULICK’S NEW BOOK.

IN his “Physical Education by Muscular Exercise” Dr. Gulick has offered us a work of such extraordinary value that we feel justified in giving it special consideration.

Although intended for the physician in order to initiate him theoretical^ in the science of physical education, its history, aims and limitations and also in its various systems, it is, nevertheless, of extraordinary importance also to our own profession.

Dr. Gulick has collected a vast amoi^nt of observations, interesting per se and scientific to boot.

Although the pamphlet contains only 63 pages, it touches upon nearly everything pertaining to the subject in a general way.

His criticisms on the different systems show that the doctor is familiar with them and that his intention was to be fair to each ot them. If exceptions might be taken to one or the other of his conclusions we must remember that true criticism can never please all, nor be indisputably correct in every particular.

We feel as though Dr. Gulick in his new work had actually* filled a long felt want and hope that not only every physician but also every person interested in physical culture will read this little book. We would then be assured that in the future there will be a correct conception of physical culture on the part of those who ought to know what it really means and who are its true representatives.

The work is written in such easy language that even a layman can understand it.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—One of the members of our editorial committee, Prof. C. L. Schrader, has sent us a report of the Annual Carnival of Gymnastics held at the Geneseo. N. Y.. Normal School. The press comments thereon are of an extremely flattering character.

—The new pamphlet on the Natatorium Department of the Muegge Institute of St. Louis, which is under the management of Messrs. A. Muegge and Wm. Stecher, gives proof of the rapid progress of the institution.

—The Deartment of Physical Culture of the Louisiana Purchase Expotion in St. Louis has sent us a voluminous program of the Olympic Games to be held there this summer.

—We are in possesssion of the latest announcement of The New York Normal School of Physical Education, which is conducted at Dr. Savage’s Physical Development Institnte in New York City.

Digitized by Google
—69—

AMERICAN SCHObL CHILDREN.

IN a lecture to Philadelphia teachers on school hygiene Dr. S. Weir Mitchell opened a series of similar discourses which have been planned by the department of health and board of education of that city.

Entering upon his lecture, he said that his subject was nervous diseases in school children, but it could hardly be expected that he would give to his hearers in one evening a thorough and practical knowledge where even his own profession still found itself deficient.

“I wonder,M said Dr. Mitchell, “if teachers ever know quite what is in their power, how immense is their responsibility. I look back with disgust and a certain pity for myself upon my own school life. I wish, indeed, that it had been passed in the public schools where there was some chance of my being understood by my teachers. As a boy I never was understood by them; never until I went to the University of Pennsylvania did I find any who understood me.

“The salvation of the work of the teacher from becoming merely a paid task will be your attitude toward it. If you love to teach, if it interests you, if you are all the time thinking how to make the best educational schedule, then you are the right kind of teacher and it is worth while for us to turn aside and try to help you.”

The doetor dwelt upon the necessity of individualizing the conceptions formed of the pupils, according to their characters, dispositions and mental traits. If some of the greater poets, such as Shelley and Keats, had in their young days fallen into the hands of feeling and sympathetic mentors, who had understood them, they might have been enabled to lead happier if not more delightfully productive lives.

Dr. Mitchell told his hearers that they must take into account the environment of the child’s life to determine the true condition of mentality.

“There must be,” he said, “in every large group of children, especially notable at the age of adolescence, some who become gradually inert, dull or less capable than formerly.

“Any such children ought to excite your kindly attention. Before you conclude such defects to be essentially or primarily of the mind organs alone be sure, through the help of some physician, that it is not the eyes, throat or digestion, or evil habits that are responsible for them. If these children must be relegated to the merely slow-minded or mildly eccentric there should be for them in each large school district classes. Examinations for some children are terrible tests and for manv are the cause of bringing out defects and maturing mischief. If we could do without examinations altogether it would be hygienically a distinct gain.

“The question of dverworking tempts us, but knowledge warns me to be careful how I decide. Some fifteen years ago a great deal too much was exacted in the girls’ high school. How it is now I do not know. I know, however, that in our university fifteen or seventeen hours a week of lectures and studies suffices the average man. This is perfectly ridiculous and a pure farce. In the special schools, medicine, law, etc., it takes from fifty to sixty hours of work a week, and they hardly get through at that.”

The doctor briefly described the nervous disorders which may mani- #

Digitized by LjOOQLe
-70-

fest themselves in children in the schoolroom and said how to deal with them. Among these were St. Vitus dance, hysteria, epilepsy, headaches proceeding from the optic nerve and vertigo.

NERVOUSNESS IN CITY CHILDREN.

IN the January number of the Archives of Paediatrics there is the following editorial: One of the most prominent features of medical practice in large cities, and especially among the children of the better-to-do classes, is the increasingly frequent occurrence of nervous conditions of various kinds among growing children. These conditions not only produce symptoms in themselves, but lead to the exaggeration of the symptoms of other ailments, and frequently make diagnosis more difficult than it would otherwise be, because of the atypical symptoms they introduce. Even slight febrile conditions in nervous children give rise to a severe rigor, to mental symptoms bordering on delirium and to functional disturbances, especially in the gastro-intestinal tract, the kidneys and the skin, which are unwarrantably severe. As a matter of fact, the height of the fever itself depends not a little on the child’s nervous condition and the resistive vitality that enables it to withstand thermic conditions. Small disturbances of heat equilibrium produce a distinct rise of temperature that may persist for several days.

It is very evident that this supersensitiveness of the nervous system is due to unnatural conditions in child life. If there is anything that is typical of the young animal and the young child, it is the restlessness that characterizes them, so that normally only a small portion of their waking state is passed in rest. This is, of course, an inconvenient thing in modern city life. Children cannot be allowed to run around the house. In apartments they must be kept quiet, or the complaint of neighbors will make life intolerable for the rest of the family, and at most a few hours a day of outdoor air and play can be secured for them. Only too often this so-called playing outdoors is rather a solemn walk to the park with a nurse who has instructions that the children must not be allowed to associate freely with other children, lest they should be exposed to some contagion.

There is no doubt that a prominent, though often unrecognized, factor in the production of the nervousness of city children is the present system of teaching in the public, and consequently also in other schools, which assumes that education is proportional to the amount of information, useful and otherwise, which can be crammed into children. In order to secure a cooperation of the children in this mistaken notion, competitions and examinations are devised that to a sensative, ambitious child become eventually a positive nightmare of anxiety. The child’s vital force during its developmental period is too precious to be wasted in this wav. If to adults it may be said with perfect truth at times of strain, “You have not brain enough to run your business and your nervous system,” surely the same must be said to growing school children whose nervous systems are accomplishing the feat of their lives in directing the evolution of cells all over the body. Physicians are the •only ones who seem properly to realize this, and their voices must be

Digitized by v^ooQle
—71—

raised in protest and their intervention must protect those who early exhibit signs of nervousness.

Nervous disorders must be prevented rather than cured. As far as possible the artificiality of city life must give way, for the children at least, to a return to nature-spontaneous play in the open air, plain living and long hours of sleep after healthy fatigue. Parental attempts at the encouragement of precocious solemnity in children, by display and imitation to their elders, must be firmly discountenanced. There is in the bringing up of children the one opportunity for the present-day physician to assume the important role of domestic confidant and advisor so long and so satisfactorily held by the old-time family physician. For the sake of the rising generation there is here a place to be filled that must not be neglected, or it will prove a costly oversight.

MEDICAL SUPERVISION OF SCHOOLS IN BERLIN

AND PARIS.

GERMAN papers report that a congress for hygiene and physiological v pedagogy* was recently held at Paris. As a result Progres Medical has drawn a comparison between the work of the school physicians in the German and the French capital, which is substantially in favor of the German method The expert writing the article cautions especially against the inclination of France to overdo such efforts, which may lead to giving the physician a too far-reaching influence and the possibility of meddling with the manner of school instruction and in more intimate relations.

He first reviews the rules for medical supervision over the public schools of Berlin.

Every school physician has supervision over four schools, and his duties are to examine twice a year all the pupils who enter the school with reference to the senses, the spinal column, the development of the limbs, etc.; to make examination of those pupils who would be subject to receive instruction on account of stuttering of some other additional instruction ; to make a quarterly inspection of the school rooms with reference to their sanitary condition; also of the health of the pupils and the presence of contagious diseases.

These examinations may take place oftener if requested by the school board.

In addition the state district physician has to inspect the local schools at least once every five years with reference to their architecture; he has also to prescribe the necessary measures in case of a threatened epidemic.

The principal of the school is held to send those pupils to the school physician whose state of health during the intervals of the official visits creates suspicion. It is especially pointed out that the school physician, according to the German rules, is not to give the sick pupil orders or prescribe for him or her. but the parents are simply notified of the facts and receive written advice.

It is furthermore particularv important that the school physicians

Digitized by CjOOQle
-72-

meet together in certain intervals, three or four times during a year. These measures are held by the French physician to be models for a reform of conditions in Paris. It appears to him indispensable, and it certainly does seem proper to have the pupils entering school examined separately by the school physician, as thereby it is possible to call the attention of the teachers from the beginning to the physical condition of the school children. The Paris rules go further, inasmuch as the school physicians are obliged to inspect their schools at least twice a month instead of only twice every half year.

The careful execution of the medical examinations of the hygienic conditions of the school is the most important part of the duties of the school physicians.

Aside of this the medical treatment of the pupils must, as far as possible, be left to the home physicians, who usually have known the children for a longer time than the school physicians, and therefore are better judges of the condition of their health.

In doubtful cases the advice of a specialist shall be sought rather than to demand of the school physician a far-reaching special knowl-, edge, which might result in making a medical experimental station of the school.

In addition, the French physician proposes that the school physician should be entitled to view the condition of the dwellings of sick school children, and also to give advice concerning the architecture of schools and the division of the school hours.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION LAW OF OHIO.*)

(Words in italics indicate the desired amendments.)

Section 4020—17. Physical training shall be included in the branches to be regularly taught in city school districts, and in all educational institutions supported wholly, or in part, bv money received from the state; and it shall be the duty of boards of education of city school districts, and boards of such educational institutions, to make provisions in the schools and institutions under their jurisdiction for physical training, and to adopt such methods as shall adapt the same to the capacity of the pupils in the various grades therein ; and other boards may make such provisions. Normal Schools shall provide, and shall require, a thorough course in physical education.

ALSO

make provision for the examination of teachers. Page 57 (Harrison bill), line 1411, adding words in italics:

“Provided that city boards of school examiners shall include physical education, and provided said boards of examiners may, in their discretion, etc.”

*) Thsse amendments arc offered in the physical education law in Ohio’s new school code.

—A Unique Festival was given by the Indianapolis, Ind., Turnverein, Monday, April 4. It was named “Germanic Spring Festival.” Historical anti mythological scenes and dances were parts of the program.

Digitized by Google
ATHLETICS IN THE ARMY.

A. R. CHAFEE, Lieutenant-General, U. S. A.

A soldier should be physically prepared as well as mentally educated to perform his duties. A regular course of physical culture, now recognized as highly beneficial to men in any walk of life, is of still greater importance to the soldier, on whose physical constitution depends the success of acampaign. Military training is wasted if it cannot be present at the fight; a good sound physique will take it there; to acquire this necessitates a well-arranged course of calisthenics and athletic instruction, intelligently applied. Athletics should be a feature of the military training of a soldier, and persuasive policy to induce him to participate in athletics has no place in the relations of officers and men, and should give way to orders providing proper instruction.

Athletics will make the service more attractive to the men, will increase the number of re-enlistments, and will make the army more efficient.—Outing.

PHYSICAL CULTURE VERSUS-------------------

Physical culture is not apanacea for all ills. It cannot undo mistakes or recreate new material when the old has been used up by excesses.

Physical culture is not the greatest need of the world’s populace. Many other things are of much greater importance and are not comparable with what is termed physical culture.

Physical culture often might mean simply the taking care or oversight over the body, without an hour of gymnasium work or a moment’s attention being paid to exercises or anything of the sort. Gymnasium work, athletics and games, arc not always necessities. Often they are mere luxuries and sometimes are known to cause harm.

Gymnasium work cannot overcome the harm done the body because of a strenuous life in the business world. Men come to the physical director worn down to the bone or so nervous that they are started at their own footsteps, with eyes denoting depression, face haggard, and want to know if they can be cured, built up, and often with the selfish desire only of being able to do more business, getting more money, etc.

What such a man needs, first of all, is about eight weeks of quiet rest, as complete a rest as is possible; then, after getting better, to go into the “gym,, for a few hours a week, using the gymnasium as a means for recreation, relaxation and toning up the system.

Never make the mistake so many do and think that the gymnasium is for sick men. It is not a hospital, nor does it take the place of a physician, but it will help to keep a well man healthy and strong, And enable a man to fight the battle of life more successfully.

—Onother Affair of extraordinary dimensions was the Grand Gymnastic Carnival of the Marion, 0,, Y. M. C. A.

Digitized by Google
CAMBRIDGE AND THE BARE LEG ISSUE.

While President Eliot of Harvard University is being praised for the noble work he has done during the seventy years of his busy life, the maidens—more especially the old ones—of Cambridge are raising pitiful protests against the practice which has grown up among Harvard students of running bare-legged through the streets of Boston’s classic suburb. Whoever has seen collegians in a track race knows how aggressively bare the college sprinter’s legs generally are. And, to tell the honest truth, few college sprinters have legs that are beautiful or in the least inspiring—when bare. Generally they are scraggy, twisted, tough-looking things that are in no wise calculated to fill an oldish “maiden lady” with ennobling thoughts concerning the sublimity of man.

It appears that it has become the practice of the Harvard students who expect to establish records as members of this season’s track team to take daily rufis in droves through the most fashionable residence streets of Cambridge. Some of them wear sweaters and long trousers, but the majority of them, it is claimed, are clothed only in shirts that have large, disreputable-looking holes where the sleeves ought to be and “running pants” that might at least be an inch or two larger without interfering with the movements of the wearer.

Of course, the power of the law would at once be invoked if young women were to run through public streets in such—, but it is absurd to even think of the possibilty of such a scandalous thing. Why, then, ask the ladies of Cambridge, should college men—future senators, cabinet officers and presidents—be permitted to trot around almost naked before young girls and their sisters, their cousins and their mothers and their aunties?

In a ballroom a lady may exhibit more of her spine than it would be modest of her to display in the street, and it may be permissible, on the other hand, for a college athlete to wear fewer clothes while developing his wind and muscles than he would be expected to have on at a dinner. Yet it might be well if there could be a certain amount of conservatism on each side. Let us hope that Harvard and the ladies of Cambridge may be able to effect a reasonable compromise.

cji $uU in a C£ht«<* gtijop and a boy running wild in his enthusiasm on an C?* athletic field for lack of intelligent direction are both out of place. The ball will paw and toss his head, and the boy of spirit is bound to take to games and sports. The beast out of his element is sure to smash something, and the fine young human animal, out of bounds and without advice, will almost certainly go wild, overexercise, strain himself and injure, perhaps irreparably, the body, the most wonderful mechanism on earth.

So wise men believe in leading a bull to pasture and in guiding a boy through athletic games so that he may get the most out of exercise without impairing his health. This belief has resulted in the plan to secure for the high school boys of Boston two instructors, who shall supervise the athletic games so that the boys may learn the proper way to prepare for their games and to compete with each other on the field. The matter has been brought to the attention of the Boston school committee. As the plan has been approved by the sub-committee on hygiene and the sub-committe on high schools, it will probably be carried into effect if the school committee can find in its lean purse money enough for the salaries of the proposed instructors.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-75-

EXERCISE FOR SPORT.

A recent article in “Health,” describing the athletic career of Ellery H. Clark, the Boston lawyer, who defeated Adam Gunn in the all-around athletic championship at Staten Island last summer, gives point to the idea of exercising for amusement and recreation. Mr, Clark is a successful practicing attorney and an author of reputation, who believes in keeping up the habits of his college days for their value in his present life.

Here is what he says: “I have never exercised in the hope of capturing medals and cups, or to build up a lot of showy, beefy muscles. My first object was to attain a method of keeping up my health and strength by a system of exercises, and I have only practiced athletic sports as a diversion and for amusement. The various games I have competed in have entertained me immensely, and that is why I have entered them, and besides, I have managed to make them all contribute their share to increase my Working power in my profession.” This is, a sane and helpful relation toward athletics and sports and one which every business man would do well to hold. Men are constantly breaking down in the business world because of the lack of exercise which relaxes the mind and strengthens the body. An hour a day, or even two or three times a week in active out-of-door exercise, or if this is not convenient, in gymnasium work of a recieative character, would immensely increase the usefulness of hundreds of men in this city in their business and professional careers.

Such outdoor games as tennis, baseball, polo, hockey, and such indoor games as basketball, handball, baseball, etc., are useful in that they take a man’s mind from his business by absorbing, for the time being, the attention of all his faculties, and at the same time they teach alertness, accuracy and quickness of action and observation, enduranee and self-control, thus recreating and reviving in the man who leads the artificial life of the city the power of useful work, while giving to him plenty of real sport.

ACTS INIMICAL TO MANLINESS.

inimical to the growth of American manliness both in “Deca-^ dence of Home Life” and in athletics, were discussed by Alfred E. Stearns, principal of Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass., in an address delivered to the Education Conference which is one of the features in connection with the celebration of Dr. H. F. Fisk’s 30 years’ residence at Northwestern University academy. Three hundred delegates from various parts of the country were present.

After touching oh the incapacity of the nurses, tutors, and private schools properly to molcTa child’s life, and concurring in recent pessimistic views of the race suicide proposition, Mr. Stearns said of school and college athletics:

‘‘Sly and underhand practices are encouraged -just so far as detection does not ensue. To the average schoolboy the college athlete is a hero, and this man, I regret to say, often spends his time in teaching this deceit to lads of the preparatory schools. I have seen many an athletic coach devoting hours to teaching young followers how they may cleverly disobey rules of the game without risk of detection, and I think I am safe in saying that the majority of coaches are given to this practice. I have heard boys complain that they were advised that a little profanity would tend to disconcert their opponents.”

Mr. Stearns expressed himself as heartily in favor of athletics honestly pursued, even at the expense of physical injuries, or an occasional death. It was the moral effect of dishonest practices that he deplored.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
—76—

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne Public School*.

(Continued. ^

Across DRILL, division work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Three Deep Tag.” As a preliminary figure marching. After receiving wands, form ranks of fours or sixes by turning 1. face from a flank line and march down the center to location for the drill. Turn 1. (or r.) About face. Open order sidew. by facing outw. upon the first step and after two steps in successive order the rows to follow to full distance and turn front upon the last count.

WAND DRILL.

Wand'forw. to starting pos.—lower!

1.	Toe-touch forw. 1. and raise wand forw.—1! Move 1. foot sidew. (in toe-touch) and place wand around 1. hip (wand to point forw, obi. to the 1.)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4 ! Same r., 1—4! Alternately 1-8!

Wand in front of shoulders—raise!

2.	a) Bend r. knee, raise 1. leg forw. and extend arms forw.—1! Posl —2! Same r., 3! Pos.—4!

b)	Bend r. knee, raise 1. leg sidew. and extend arms upw.—1 ! Pos! —2! Same r.—3! Pos.—4! Wand—lower!

3.	Raise 1. leg backw. and wand overh.—1! Move I. leg forw. and lower wand forw. to vertical pos., 1. hand above—2! As 1—31 Pos.—4! Same r., 1—4! Alternately, 1—8!

4.	a) Bend knees and raise wand in front of shoulders—1! Extend knees, bend trunk forw. and extend arms forw.—2! As 1—3!! Pos.—4!

b) As a—1! Extend knees, bend trunk backw. and extend arras upw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4!

5.	Raise 1. leg inw. (cross in front of r.) and raise wand sidew. r.—1 Move 1. leg sidew. 1. and wand to diagonal pos. sidew. 1. (1. arm sidew. and r. arm upw.)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.f 1—t! Alternately, 1—8!

In place—rest! Or some variety of gymnastic tactics.

6.	Stride pos. backw. 1. and raise wand forw.—1! Beud 1. knee, move wand on 1. arm and raise the latter forw. upw. obi. (the r. forearm behind the head)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r., 1—4! Alternately, 1—8!

7.	Straddle jump sidew. (outw.) and raise wand overh.—1! Pos—*2!

Repeat in lively rhythm ten or twelve times.

8.	Stride pos. sidew. 1. and raise wand sidew. 1.—1! Bend 1. knee, bend trunk sidew. r. and bend 1. arm over r. in front of shoulders -2! As 1-3! Pos.—4! Same r., 1-4! Alternately, 1-8!

9.	Lunge backw. 1. and raise wand to vertical pos. on 1. hip (1. hand on 1. hip and r. arm bent overh. 1—1! Pos.—2! Same r.—3, 4!

10.	Raise wand overh. and lower behind hips—1 ! Pos.—2! Repeat slowly 0 or 8 times.

Digitized by uooQle
11.	Breathing exercise! Inhale deeply and raise wand in front of shoulders (elbows point outw. and raise shoulders as high as possible) in four counts; exhale and lower wand in one count. Repeat 6 or 8 times.

Wand at r. shoulder—carry!

Close ranks toward the center by marching forw.; ranks M wheel 1. or r. to a front line, turn 1. or r. face, march forw. and deposit wands. Then march to assigned places for the apparatus work.

First Division: High horizontal bar and broad	buck.

Second	“	Broad buck and high horizontal	bar.

Third	44	Low parallel bars and oblique ladder.

Fourth	41	Oblique ladder and low parallel	bars.

Change places. Division 1 with 2. and 3 with 4.

1.	jump to hang, ordinary grasp; swing and pull up at backw. swing to straight arm rest, front circle backw. to straight arm hang, swing forw. ,ankles to bar, kip to straight arm rest, underswing, and down.

2.	As ex. 1, but instead of the kip squat backw. and rear circle upw. over bar, holding both legs at r. angle; drop backw., squat forw., underswing, and down.

3.	Jump to hang, ordinary grasp and immediately front circle backw. to straight arm hang, swing forw., and Vi turn 1. (both hands turning from ordinary to the same on the farther side simultaneously), swing forw. ankles to bar, kip to straight arm rest arid flank vault r. or 1.

4.	Jump to straight arm hang, ordinary grasp; raise both legs upw. (ankles to bar); front circle backw. (pull up over bar) to straight arm rest; lower backw. and raise both legs forw. to r. angle; again raise both legs upw. (ankles to bar); squat backw. and extend legs upw. to back hang; lower slowly to rear lever; then to legs downw.; % turn forw., squat forw. and extend legs upw., then lower forw. slowly to hang, and down.

5.	Jump to straight arm hang, forearms crossed to combined grasp (1. hand ordinary on near side and r. hand reverse grasp on the farther side and outside of 1. hand); % turn 1. and pull up to rear rest (the 1. hand to be transferred to reversed grasp on 1. side to complete the pull-up backw.); change grasp to ordinary; lower backw. slowly to back hang and farther to rear lever; then to back hang, legs downw.; % turn 1., release grasp of r. hand and regrasp bar after the turn.

6.	An exercise free for all.

Change place with the second division on the broad buck.

First Eivision —Broad Buck (shoulder height).

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Straddle vault forw.

2.	44	“	44	with	V\	turn 1. Same r.

3	“	“	“ i/2 “ 1. “ r.

4.	Squat	“	41	Same with V2 turn 1., then r.

Digitized by booQ le
-78-

5.	Flank	vault	1.	Same	r.

6.	Front	“	1.	“	r.

7.	Rear	“	1.	44	r.

8.	Same as ex. 6, with Vi turn r. Same opposite.

9.	Jump to head balance; then turn over forw. to rear stand.

10.	44	44	hand	“	4 *	4 4	4 4	4 4 44 4 4 4 4

11	«	“	“ squat vault 4 4	4 4	4 4

12.	An exeercise free for all.

Second Division.—Broad Buck.

Same as the first Division.

Change place with the first division on the high horizontal bar.

Second Division.—High Horizontal Bar.

1.	Jump to hang, ordinary grasp; swing, ankles to bar and kip to straight arm rest; Vt circle 1. with both legs to rear rest; drop backw., squat forw., underswing, and down.

2.	Jump to hang, combined grasp (1. reversed and r. ordinary); swing, at backw. swing Vi turn r.; raise ankles to bar (the r. hand to be transferred during the Vi .turn), kip to straight arm front rest; front circle forw. (once around the bar); underswing, and down.

3.	Jump to hang, ordinary grasp; swing dnd pull up at backw. swing to front rest; front circle backw. to hang, swing forw., ankles to bar, and kip to straight arm rest; flank vault 1. or r.

4.	Jump to hang, ordinary grasp; raise both legs upw., front circle backw. (pull up over bar) to front rest; Vi circle r. with 1. leg, then V2 circle 1. with r. leg to rear rest and reverse grasp; lower forw slowly to back hang; 14 turn forw., squat forw. and extend legs upw.; lower forw, slowly to hang, and down.

5.	Jump to arm hang, ordinary grasp; pull up to dip rest 1., then r.( and extend both arms to front rest; front circle forw. to front hang (legs upw.); lower ankles to * bar; squat backw. and extend legs upw.; then rear circle forw. (pull up over bar) to rear rest; ^turn

1.	to front rest; lower backw. with legs raised forw. to r. angle, lower to hang, and down.

6.	An exercise free for all.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same movements. The third division to begin on the low parallel bars and the fourth on the oblique ladder, under side.

Low Parallel Bars.

In front cross-stand.

1.	Jump to straight arm rest and % circle r. with 1. leg over 1. bar and lower to front stand, then rear vault r. over r. bar.

2.	As first part of ex. 1, to riding seat on r. bar in front of r. hand (the r. leg to swing up between the bars and circle over r. bar I; rear vault r. with Vi turn r.

3.	Jump to straight arm rest and 14 circle r. with 1. leg, swing backw.. then forw. to rear vault r. over r. bar with 14 turn 1.

4.	As, ex. 3, with 1. leg, intermediate swing; at backw. swing circle

1.	with r. leg over r. bar, swing backw.. then forw. to rear vault I. with Vi turn r.

Digitized by Google
-79-

5.	As ex. 4, but instead of rear vault turn oyer forw. to shoulder balancer.; roll over forw. on r. bar to outside cross-seat; *4 turn

1.	to front leaning rest and flank vault 1.

6.	An exercise free for all.

Note—Repeat all movements pn opposite side.

Oblique Ladder (Under Side).

Jump to leaning hang, hands in outside grasp on beams and feet resting against a round below.

1.	In leaning hang, bend and extend arms three to five times, down.

Feet against third or fourth round of lower end and hands in ordinary grasp about second, third round above the feet.

2.	Bend and extend knees 3 to 5 times; down.

3.	Pos. same as in ex. 2, but lower extended 1. (r.) leg alternately as the opposite knee bends (the extended leg to be parallel with the ladder); down.

4.	Same as ex. 3, with releasing grasp of 1. hand when 1. leg is lowered and Va. turn 1. and return. Same opposite; down.

Pos. as in ex. 1.

5.	Travel to upper end of ladder and return; down.

6.	Travel to upper end of ladder, then lower to hang and travel downw. by the hands.

7.	As ex. 5, at upper end climb around to upper side and lower to front leaning rest (hands in ordinary grasp on the same round and feet resting on beams); travel-downw., moving hands alternately.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and form one large or two smaller circles for the game “Three Deep Tag.”

After conclusion of the game, clap hands once and dismiss.

CTo be continued.)

SLUGGING HAS HURT FOOTBALL.

From “Boston Herald.,r

the most objectionable feature of football is the slugging that now and then crops out in a big game. It was this slugging that led to the breaking off of athletic relations between Harvard and Yale in 1894 after the great battle at Springfield, which was more of a man to man combat than a game of football.

In recent years this slugging spirit has become very much in evidence and it is claimed on very good authority that there is premeditation in putting players out of commission. Dartmouth and Princeton are not liable to meet next season on account of what happened to the colored Dartmouth player at Princeton last fall. Another case in point was the encounter between Capt. De Witt of Princeton and Glass of Yale in 1902. In that game, it will be remembered, De Witt kicked a goal from almost the middle ©1 the field a few minutes after the play began, and it looked as if be might continue kicking goals throughout the entire game, but something happened to De Witt aud he was obliged to retire thoroughly worn out in the second half. It was not the game that tired the Princeton strong man, but the pummelling that he received from Glass.

The Princeton man himself is reported as saying “that he never received such a hammering in all his life and he stood up under it as long he could.”

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
-80-

No t withstanding the treatment he received, De Witt had nothing but the kindest words to say about Glass, whom he regarded as the greatest guard that ever played on a football team. De Witt seemed to think that slugging was a part of the game and he simply gave his opponent credit for being the better man. “We are the best of friends,” said De Witt, “and it was all a part of the game.”

There is a very strong feeling against slugging and the sooner this feature of football is obliterated the better it will be for the game. The advocates of clean football point with pride to the style of game played by the light-weight Carlisle Indian school eleven. This team, under Glenn Warner’s coaching, had a very successful season and they accomplished their work, not by slugging oj unfair tactics, but instead learned the game and played it as they were taught, executing their attack with remarkable precision and unanimity, with the whole team taking an important part in every play.

The Indians demonstrated that skill in football can be made to be of great value, and they rely more upon their ability to act quickly and do the right thing at the right time rather than in overpowering an opponent by superior weight or strength.

Warner never teaches, his men to slug, because it is his pet idea, that a man cannot slug and play football at the same time.

The writer recently had a talk with T. Truxton Hare, who was one of the greatest guards in the country in his days, when he was playing for the University of Pennsylvania. Hare always played a remarkably clean game of football. On account of his great strength it would have been an easy matter for him to overcome an opponent by slugging, had he adopted that kind of game.

Speaking of slugging, Mr. Hare said:	•

“I do not think it is anything to a man’s credit to injure or incapacitate his opponent by slugging. It certainly is not football and it takes all the pleasure out of a game. Personally I would rather try my skill and knowledge of how to play my position against the skill and knowledge of my opponent, and if I got the better of a man under these circumstances, I always felt that I was playing a better game of football.

“I am afraid that some of the big teams pay more attention to slugging than they should and I regret to have to acknowledge this condition of affairs. Football is a great game if it can be played and developed to a high degree of perfection without bringing in any objectionable features. It is all right to legislate and make rules punishing players who resort to slugging, but it is a very difficult matter for the officials to catch the offenders in the act.

“The real remedy lies with the players themselves and the coaches, and I think a great improvement could be made by the coaches paying more attention to building up individual and team play and thereby making the game one more of skill than of mere strength.

“There is a spirit abroad nowadays of doing up the best man on the opposing team, and any attempt, at unfair play is a great injury to the game. There is plenty in football to make a contest interesting to the spectators and a pleasure to the men who engage in it without resorting to slugging, and, after all, a clean, well-played game of football is the best kind of contest. Then there is no unpleasant aftermath and it is always a source of gratification to see a team win or lose oh its merits.”

THE QUEST FOR HEALTH.

—A Good Bicycle is worth a hundred times its weight in patent medicines. The average man has few diseases which a bicycle cannot heal. For every one injured in bicycle riding thousands are made healthier and happier.

George Henry Fox, A. M., M. D. Clinical Professor Diseases of the Skin, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University.

—Bicycling has done more for the physical benefit of woman than all other exercises put together, and I cordially recommend it.

Robert Reyburn, A. XL, M. D. Dean, Medical Dept. Howard University. Surgeon in attendance upon Prest. Garfield.

Digitized by v^ooQle
NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

matHHUIIffllHBIH*

NEW HAVEN

NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS

(Anderson Normal School of Gymnastics)

E. H. ARNOLD, M. D.a DIRECTOR.

OBers

A	Two Years’ Course of Prepa-

ration for Teachers of Gymnastics,

A Post Graduate Course in Massage and Medical Gymnastics.

A Summer Course in German Gymnastics, Fencing, Gilbert Dancing, etc.

or Catalogues, Terms, etc., apply to

E. H. ARNOLD,

307 Yoxk St.,

New Haven, Conn.

Normal School of Symnastics

i	688-668	BROADWAY

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN

geo. wittich, Director

• END rOR CATALOG

Anyone sending a sketch and description mny quickly ascertain our opinion free whether an Invention is probably patentable. Communion-] tlons strictly confidential. Handbook on Patents sent free. Oldest agency for securing patents.

Patents taken through Munn & Co. receive special notice, without charge. In tho

Scientific American.

A handsomely illustrated weekly. Largest circulation of any scientific journal. Terms, $3 a I year; four months, $ L Sold by ail newsdealers.

fillNIiS Co New York

I Rrnnoh Office. 625 F 8t* Washington, D. C.

ATHLETIC GROUPINGS

TAKEN FROM LIFE.

Arranged and Grouped by ROBERT NOHR, M. D.

AAAAA

€)6XSXS®®®<S®CS)®®They comprise the following positions:

1.	Greeting.

2.	Putting the shot.

3.	The Dash-start.

. 4. The Dash-finish.

5.	Wrestling.

6.	Sparring—The Attack.

Price, postpaid, 25 cents.

Address

7.	Sparring—The Knockout.

8.	The Victor.

9.	Rugby Foot Ball (Start or lining up).

10.	“	”	“	“	Rush and tackle.

11.	“	“	“	The Touch-down.

12.	13 and 14 positions in wrestling taken from Catch-as-catch-ean style.

FREIDENKER PUBL. CO.,

c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

Digitized by Google
Gymnasium

Outfitters,' *• * ■

Ml

c3-3r32Ci.ri-a.StiC

Apparatus.

X_iOG3s:exs.

^5la37-grxouLri.d.

-A.ppaxatuLS. 33oTTrHri.gr -A-lle3rs. -A-xxtlxxopoxxxetxlc -A-ppaxat-cis.

WRITE FOR CATALOG’S.

NARRA6ANSETT MACHINE CO.,

________PROVIDENCE,	R,	L,	U.	S.	A.

•THE

New York Normal School of Gymnastics

AT THE

Dr. Savage Physical Development Institute, Ltd,

308-310 West 59th St., New York City.

A two years' course in physical training designed to give a thorough and practical preparation for men and women desiring to become teachers. Teaching scholarships awarded to 2nd year pupils each year.

For circulars address ___________________________W.	L.	SAVAGE,	A.	M.,	M.	D., President

Summer Training in Gymnastics.

The Chautauqua School of Physical Education

Opens its Term of Six Weeks on July	1904.

The Work of the School includes

A Normal Course of Three Terms,

A Course in Medical Gymnastics,

A Course Tn Athletics,

Courses in Almost Every Approved Form of Exersise,

Send for a circular to

JAY W. SEAVER, M. I)., Yale University, New Haven, Conn.

Digitized by

Google