Vol. 13.

FEBRUARY, 1907.

No. 156

DEVOTE© TO | , a PHYSICAL

Sa EDUCATION^

SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.00 PER YEAR.

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 1347 Colwyn St , Philadelphia, Pa.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

MASS ENCAMPMENTS AT GYMNASTIC FESTIVALS.

By CAPTAIN M. B. STEWART, U. S. Army.

EVERY step in the direction of what we are pleased to terra progress and culture leads us steadily and surely from the mode of life for which we have a right to believe nature intended us, and serves to make the manner of our * existence more and more artificial. The transition from the simplicity of our grandfathers, a space of time ridiculously short when measured by the historian’s standard, to the extravagant luxury and artificiality of our present state, has indeed been startling. What would have been regarded as a miracle yesterday is today a necessity. So bewildering has been our rapid development that we have reached a stage in our existence where, while we question the possibility of future progress, we are yet always ready to accept with the utmost sang-froid anything which even we, with our greatly dilated imaginations, could not have conceived of a short time ago. It seems that our generation has set itself the task of proving that there is nothing new under the sun.

To those who have given the matter of evolution, if that term may be ylastic enough to cover the progress of the human race as it is understood today, serious consideration, the question of compensation

Digitized by Google
is of greatest importance. In other words, what will he the cost of all this culture with its attendant artificiality and degeneration? how, and by whom will the score be paid? Evolution is a shrewd bargain driver. The history of the human race bears witness to the fact that never yet has evolution given something for nothing. The expense lias, to be sure, not always been apparent, nor has the payment been urged with unseeming haste, yet we are all aware that we cannot default and that, sooner or later, the bill will be paid in full. The study of the laws of nature does not leave us long in doubt as to the identity of the debtor. The nature of the debt you gentlemen have discovered long ago and, as you have made it your vocation to prepare the debtor to meet the demand for payment when it is made upon him. you are in a far better position than I am to judge what the expense is likely to be.

The conclusion, then, that the artificiality of our present mode of existence is chiefly at the expense of our physical well-being is not new, and to be ranked with those who hold this view does not necessarily stamp the holder a reactionist nor yet a blind follower of Rousseau’s views. Between Rousseau and the extreme-np-to-date-don’t-mind-the-expense progressionist there is room for what we term the rationalist, him who is always ready to assist in the elevation of his fellows, but only to the extent of their actual and lasting benefit. To this class belongs the great organization you gentlemen represent.

It seems particularly fitting, therefore, that you should be interested in inducing our urban population occasionally to commune with dame Nature, to experience the benefit of living in the open, and to feel the delight of leading a rational life. From what, with you, in the beginning, was merely an expedient, a hygienic principle has been evolved among you, for, as I understand it, your first camps were erected as a matter of convenience rather than for any other purpose. In the end this sufficed to awaken the desire for outdoor life which is inborn in every man. Having the desire awakened is one thing; to know how to direct it so that the most good should result, is another, and it is to this, the educational side of the subject, that careful attention must lie given. How little our general population knows of country life, to say nothing of the primitiveness of camp life, is borne out hy statistics. A little over one hundred years ago only four per cent, of the population of our country lived in cities and towns. Today the urban population represents sixtv percent. The devitalizing effect of a city needs not be brought out here. You appreciate that better than I do, and you are probably also more forcibly impressed with the statement that a city’s population would burn itself out physically in three generations if it were cut off from the influx of fresh blood from the country.

The subject of mass camps, I have been informed, should, in this connection, be treated from the standpoint of expediency and education. Before entering upon the subject in detail, however, I shall add one digression to those already committed in order to impress upon you the necessity of making the educational side of these encampments as prominent as possible. We of the service have of late years had abundant opportunity to witness the almost absolute helplessness of

Digitized by CaOOQle


our young men when thrown upon their own resourses in the field. Totally ignorant of everything pertaining to life in the open, incapable of utilizing the agencies and material with which nature endowed man in order that he might care for himself, it is not at all surprising that the death rate in volunteer camps during the Spanish-American war assumed the proportions that it did. Nor was the needless loss of life aU. The pension rolls of the country now bear, and will for years to come bear, eloquent witness of the thousands whose health was irreparably impaired by even that brief period of camp life. What was true in 1898 will be repeated every time we have occasion to assemble large bodies of volunteers unless in some way we can disseminate a knowledge of the elements of hygienic camp life among the young men of our country. I am aware of the fact that the element of militarism does not enter into your calculations at present, but I am convinced that this aspect of the situation will appeal to you one and all when you recall the spirit of ’f>l which saved Missouri for the Union and impelled the flower of your organization to rally to the colors of their adopted land. Such a spirit can be but dormant at most in the breasts of the present generation, ready to kindle at the first warning of your country’s distress. With such a record behind you it is a peculiar fitting, as I have said before, that you should be interested in this subject.

SELECTION OF SITES.

In this discussion we come, naturally, to the selection of the site for the camp as the first thing to be considered. With you, the considerations which govern, while similar in many repects, are also widely different from those which a military man must bear in mind under similar circumstances. The latter must select a site which, in addition to the proper sanitary conditions, possesses certain other requirements, such as a plentiful supply of wood, water and grass near at hand. In the selection of yo.ur sites expediency must necessarily enter to a larger extent. You must accomodate yourselves to a necessarily limited choice; on the other hand you are able to prepare in advance for a supply of the above-mentioned necessities and so are required to consider only the subjects of sanitation and comfort in the selection of your Site. Again, the life of an encampment is a considerable factor in its selection. A site which would be fairly suited for an encampment of three or four days, or even for a week, might be entirely out of question for one of longer duration. In this discussion I shall bear in mind only your immediate necessities, i. e., for an encampment of four or five days, and I shall not attempt to burden your minds with the mass of technical detail which enters into the selection for a site for an encampment of a longer period. I am aware of the fact that you must often accomodate yourselves to ground which, under other circumsances and with a wider zone of choice, you would not select, and that, further, you must consider the question of railroad facilities and accessibility in your selection; therefore, I shall only give you a few simple rules, easily borne in mind and which should not be neglected in the selection of any site, no matter what may be its proposed duration.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-356-

lst. Old camp grounds should be avoided. By this I do not refer to the sites of more or less permanent camps, such as those occupied from year to year by the various state militias. In these camps running water, permanent sinks and proper sewerage have reduced the probability of disease retention to a point approximating elimination. I have in mind more particularly sites which have been occupied by less permanent camps and where no such precautions have been observed. In such cases, no matter what may have been the character of the former encampment, no matter how careful its former occupants may have been in observing sanitary requirements, there is always an element of danger in re-occupation. Diseases peculiar to the camp are long-lived and lurk for seeming incredible periods around old camp sites. Again, though there may not have been disease in the previous camp, or, though it may have been abandoned in time to avoid the serious consequences of unsanitary conditions, re-occupation may give rise to just the conditions necessary to the incubation of disease conditions left in the soil.

2nd. Avoid placing a camp on a level. Select a gentle slope and place the camp near its crest. Select a southern slope if possible. A slope is necessary in order to guard against dampness by natural drainage. A southern slope is more likely to be of equable temperature and will surely be dryer, therefore more healthy on which to camp. A slope of some kind is essential.

3rd. Select a sandy or deep sandy soil if possible, or, if available, a closely-cropocd turf. By so doing you will avoid much of the discomfort incident to dampness and rain and will not be bothered by mud. This soil will absorb the dampness with the maximum rapidity. If possible to find such a site on the bank of a running stream, it makes the best site as the stream affords a natural channel for the escape of surface training.

4th. Marshes, made ground, or alluvial soil should be avoided. They are more than likely to contain and retain dampness and disease.

5th. Avoid pitching a camp where the sun does not get full play at it for at least a good part of the day. The temptation to camp in shady spots is great but is fraught with all the danger and discomfort which may proceed from the dampness and insect life to be found in such places. The sun is a great purifier and should be given an opportunity to exercise his function.

6th. Avoid enclosed ravines, hollows, or shady dells. The dangers of dampness and the lack of proper air circulation are to be expected in such locations. The camp in a ravine has proved disastrous in many instances. It is always subject to the peril of being flooded out by sudden freshets and in many instances this has been accompanied with great loss of life and property.

These points cover the cardinal essentials of a camp site for an encampment of the type in which you are interested and for the time of the year in which your encampment takes place.

The question of tentage is a difficult one to discuss. So many con-

TENTAGE,
-357-

ditions enter into the subject that it would be hardly possible to prescribe any general type. For mass encampments, such as under discussion, the primary object should be to obtain as great a degree of uniformity as possible in the appearance of the tentage. This permits a neat, orderly looking camp, thus affording a valuable object lesson to your members. The type of tent most commonly used in the Army has much to recommend it. To begin with, it has successfully undergone the test of practical experience in nearly every quarter of the globe. It is easily handled, a considerable factor in the economy of pitching and breaking a large camp. It is easily transported on the ordinary transportation. It is sufficiently large to accomodate three or four men if folding cots are used. It is more economical of ground space than any type with which I am familiar. I would strongly advise you to insist, when buying or renting tentage, on getting this pattern and size. The tent to which I refer is known ns the “Wall tent.” Complete, with fly, poles and pins, it weighs 9% pounds. It is nine feet square with a height to the ridge of 8V& feet, with a \tfall of 3 feet 9 inches.

(To be continued.)

WHAT CAN BE DONE

IN CLASS-ROOM, HALL AND SCHOOL YARD FOR THE MAINTENANCE OF THE HEALTH AND THE GENERAL PHYSICAL WELFARE OF THE SCHOOL-YOUTH.

Paper read before the Teachers’ Association of Wisconsin by GEORGE W1TTICH, Director of the Normal School of the North American Gymnastic Union.

(Concluded.)

Free Exercises:—The following forms of free exercises in standing are suitable for class-room, hall and yard:

1.	Simple exercises of two movements of all parts of the body.

2.	Simple exercises of two movements of two parts of the body arranged in sequences.

3.	Sequences of four simple movements.

4.	The simple combination of two parts of the body.

5.	The simple or combined linked alternation.

6.	The various forms of combination sequences.

Bending, straightening and turning of trunk, arms and legs and swinging of arms and legs are valuable forms of exercises and should be considered as often as possible.

As soon as feasible the arm and the simplest trunk exercises, such as turning and side-bending, should be taken while marching, alternately with exercises in standing for the purpose of promoting general control and good posture.

The exercises under 1 are sufficient for the 1st and 2nd grades, those under 2 and the simplest forms under 3, 4 and 5 for the 3rd and 4th grades, the more difficult forms under 3, 4 and 5 for the 5th and Gth grades, and the exercises under G for the 7th and 8th grades.

The wooden wand is added in the 5th grade for the purpose of in-

Digitized by CaOOQle
-;558 •

creasing the antagonistic power of the muscles of the shoulder girdle as well as for correcting faulty postures. To this is added in the 6th grade the dumbbell and in the 7th the Indian club. The latter apparatuses are introduced mainly for the purpose of adding weight to the arms, thereby causing a more vigorous contraction of the active (moving) muscles as well as of the limiting (antagonistic) muscles. The use of the club also developes the skill of the arms to a high degree.

In the arrangement of the free exercises for the purpose of promoting skill and control due attention must be given to the combination of movements. Exercises of several parts in like directions should precede those in which the parts are moved in opposite or different directions, because the motor nerve centers can direct the movements in like direction easier than those in unlike direction. Similarity of direction, habit and sometimes gravity help in the Case of like direction. The forward movements, because they are the most natural, should be taken up first. Upon these fundamental forms the exercises of different movements should be carefully based.

Exercises that promote good carriage of the body better than any others are the so-called Balance Exercises. They consist of standing on the toes and exercises in this position, bending the knees deeply and exercises in this position, and standing on one foot with 'or without exercises in this position.

The greatest faults that confront us during the school life of our youth are the stooped posture or round shoulders, the retarded blood circulation and respiration and the retarded peristaltic movement of the bowels. Stooped posture or round shoulders are generally caused by habitual faulty sitting or shortsightedness and can be corrected best by :

1.	Forward bending of the trunk and a gradual straighthening. The straightening must be done gradually, beginning at the cervical portion of the spine, thereby causing a vigorous contraction of the neglected or elongated muscles of the upper back. Also backward bending affecting mainly the cervical and upper dorsal portions of the spine with chin drawn slightly towards the neck.

2.	Forward lowering of the head and a slow raising, combined with forcible drawing in of the chin, thereby straightening the abnormal curve in the cervical parts of the spine.

3. The exercises under 2 combined with arm exercises. Such as raising the arms backward, raising the arms sideward and backward with palms of hands turned upward, lowering the elbows and moving these backward from the sideward position with hands remaining on shoulders.

All balance exercises affect the body in a corrective manner owing to the necessity of maintaining the equilibrium which is brought about by an equal tension of the supporting muscles of the trunk and pelvis.

The blood circulation and respiration have been accelerated through the introductory exercises and the peristaltic movement of the bowels can best be promoted by deep forward bending and circling of the trunk, by raising of the knees forward upward and by all forms of running, hopping and jumping.

Digitized by CaOOQle
Combative games, such as tug-of-war with a long staff or rope, pulling and pushing in couples with or without the use of the short wand, foot in the hole, rooster tight, pig in the pen, etc., are excellent means for promoting quickness of reaction, resoluteness of action, determination and courage, and should be taken at least twice a week in place of the free exercises in the hall and once a week as a fourth unit of the day’s order if the exercises are conducted in the yard. In each case 7 to 10 minutes should btr allowed out of every 15 for this form of exercises. If the exercises are taken in the yard the greater part of two out of five weekly lessons should be taken up with running games, jumping over the swinging rope, high jump, broad jump, hop-step and jump and pole vault.

It is an easy matter for the older boys to losen the ground in some remote corner of the yard sufficiently deep to enable them to practice the above named forms of jumping in a manner beneficial to themselves. Jumping is an excellent means for developing powerful lower extremities and also judgment of sight, 'coordination and general control, besides stimulating heart and lung action. Besides the physiological and psychological effects these athletic exercises enable the young to notice their improvement in skill and strength and to exercise a friendly competition .which in itself is a stimulus, an incentive to higher effort.

Jumping over the swinging rope is an excellent invigorating and strengthening exercise for girls and smaller boys. The pupils gladly furnish the necessary rope which should be of the weight of a wash line.

Bean bags of from one to four pounds or a football may be used as missiles for throwing at a mark or as apparatus for throwing and catching for the purpose of promoting accuracy of motion and quickness of coordination. It is advisable to divide the class into two divisions and place them opposite to each other in order to enable the members to throw or put the same object alternately. Putting is a more direct movement of the arm then throwing; it is a vigorous straightening of the arm whose hand holds the bean bag above the shoulder. If the throwing is accompanied by bending and sti {tightening of the legs and turning of the trunk it is an excellent coordination exercise for the principal parts of the body. These exercises should be practiced left and right in order to prevent one-sided development. Jumping over the swinging rope and all exercises with the bean bag can be executed in the hall as well as in the yard.

Competitive games, especially racing should be a prominent feature of the physical exercises. It is that form of game that satisfies the inborn desire for competition more than any other. The competitive games possible in the class-room are limited to the simplest forms of running and hopping up and down the aisle with or without simple exercises in writing on the blackboard or transferring erasers from one desk to another. The relay, which consists of transferring an eraser or bean bag from one pupil to another of the same row and necessitates a changing of seats from the rear to the front and vice versa, is physiologically the most valable because all the pupils are kept in motion.

The yard and the hall permit a large number of games, but only

Digitized by Google
—360—

those that employ a large number of pupils at one time and the many forms of combative games should be considered.

The game, like the combative and athletic exercises, must be the last unit of a lesson for the following reasons:

1.	The most natural activities occur during the game, and new ones are easily mechanized; consequently the pupils take to this form of exercise more willingly and gladly.

2.	Combative games train not .only the muscular system but also the psychical qualities, which is of far wider reaching importance. They give rise to fair play, judgment, determination and effort.

3.	All games create a cheerful frame of mind that causes the pupils to long for the lesson in physical training.

The simpler games with the football can be taken up in the lower grades and developed to “Captain Ball” in the 7th and 8th grades.

As fourth unit in the class-room exercises on the seats or desks may occasionally be taken; they are as follows:

1.	In kneeling posture on the seats vigorous lowering and raising of the hips and trunk for stimulating the functions of the abdominal viscera and strengthening the muscles of the lower back and waist.

2.	Turning of the trunk for promoting the mobitity of the spine. This turning is a pure turning of the trunk owing to the close proximity of the base. If the turning is. executed as far as possible it will stimulate the function of the liver and sympathetic nervous system.

3.	With hands on two desks facing a seat, the broad axis of the body parallel with the length of aisle, jump to a squat stand on the seat or over the same to a sitting posture or stand rearways

4. With hands on two desks, the broad axis of the body crosswise to the length of the aisle, the feet behind the hands on the floor (support-stand—frontways), or in front of hands (support-stand—rear-wavs), with legs, trunk and head in one straight oblique line, chest active and chin drawn in—simple arm exercises, such as bending and straightening, also bending of knees, etc.

The exercises under 4 should not be given to the pupils below the bth grade.

LESSOaX PLAXS.—For the Yard or Hall. Time 15 Minutes.

I. Monday	i3 min.—Introductory and intermediate exercises.

Wedne d* vo niin.—Free exercises in standing or marching

*	- i	including	corrective and balance exercises.

Friday J5 min.—Running game.

II.	Tuesday	I 3 min.—As above.

,	;12 min.—Combative exercises or exercises in

Thursday J	jumping	and	throwing.

For the Class Room. Time 15 Minutes.

III. Monday	J Wednesday! As I.

Friday )

IV.	Tuesday (As under I, with exercises on the seats Thursday (or desks in place of games.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-361-

In conclusion I must once more emphasize the importance and value of exercising out of doors. No matter how clean a class room is kept and how perfectly hygienic the conditions are, it can never take the place of the yard with its open unbounded suoply of air and sunshine. So often have the beneficial influences of fresh air upon the youthful bodies of our pupils been demonstrated and proved by medical authorities that the flimsy arguments of those who fear that the strict school disipline may suffer or that not enough time would remain for cramming the minds of the young, are an absurdity and cannot stand. The very fact that the happiness, welfare, longevity and power of a nation depend largely upon the physical condition of the population, history has proved often enough. The physical portion of the body must nourish the mental, and not the mental nourish the physical. Montaigne said 300 years ago, “It is not a mind that we must train, nor only a body, but a human being

The exercises must, of course, be conducted by the class teacher in the yard as well as in the class-room or hall. Not only the pupils but also she will benefit by-this work in the open air. Our class teachers, like the pupils, suffer under the same unhygienic conditions. They sit entirely too much, get no physical exercise at all and very little fresh air. Their instruction in the other branches would often be more animating, more interesting and more vigorous if they themselves would take time to acquire more vitality and freshness of body.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

By K. A. KNUDSON, Copenhagen.

(Translated by CARL L. SCHRADER.)

(Concluded.)

IN one sense gymnastic exercise is one-sided, namely in the use of extensions, but this is done for deliberate and sound reasons. Whether it concern a youth who is bent over his book, or is sewing, or playing the piano, or at some trade, the first essential movement must be extension or stretching of the limbs. Here we might raise the objection: how can the few weekly hours in gymnastics have any perceptible influence upon the deleterious impressions of our daily life upon the monotonous and one-sided postures and movements which are repeated day after day and continue all day long? However, experience teaches us that if gymnastic exercises are properly conducted, and if the pupil uses his good will they become the dominating factor of our physical being and do restore or retain more or less the normal conditions. It seems as though gymnastics and nature were working in partnership, and as though faulty posture and movements were working against nature with the result of the former proving victorious.

The many different muscles and the corresponding nerves of the body must first learn to operate in unison ere an exercise can be performed with facility and to good purpose. Those movements which occur in some persons’ daily life are usually so common-place, simple and onesided that the persons who have no experience in others are clumsy and awkward. Their muscles and nerves may be likened unto an army

Digitized by <^.ooQle
—362—

consisting of poorly drilled troops that cannot be wielded easily and quickly in the field as a whole, because the several divisions were drilled independently of one another. The gymnastic art possesses an abundance of* exercises which lend themselves beautifully to teach and train the muscles in this harmonious coordination. There are many exercises which make little demand on strength, yet the mastering of these takes considerable time because a certain number of different muscles must first be trained to work in unison. Otherwise, if some contract too soon or too little and others too late or too strong, the ultimate movement in view fails utterly; we not only cut a pitiful and awkward figure but probably receive even an injury as a result. Wherever gymnastic exercise succeeds in teaching this coordination of muscles, play as it were, this agility, there the body has been educated, there the body has learned to use its organs with the greatest results and economy. This acquisition is not only of value in the gymnasium, for it would then be hardly worth possessing, but without question in all phases of life; our general learning becomes easier, freeer and more graceful; it may save us from accidents; it makes our labors lighter inasmuch as it teaches us how to do them with the least expenditure of energy and thus endows us with greater endurance.

The question of developing a beautiful body is by no means a secondary one when we speak of physical education. It is not merely a question of vanity as is the desire for costly and beautiful garments. The striving after physical beauty is as noble as the striving after health.

The characteristics of beapty, the erect and free poise of the head, the rounded chest, erect carriage and light elastic Step are also the characteristics of health and power, and coincide therein exactly with what hygiene and physiology demand of the body in order that the most vital functions, respiration, circulation and digestion, mav go on unhindered.

The demands which we, men of to-day, make upon our appearance center too much upon the dress. “Kleider machen LcuteM, is a well-known proverb. Could we only succeed in awakening a love and desire for bodily beauty we would take a decided step toward a strong physical development. We would learn that beauty is only obtained through health. It was the love for beauty which caused the ancient Greeks to attain that wonderful physical development to such a measure that to they are to the present day examples which we may never be able to equal. Without this sense for beauty they would never have valued the means of their development as highly as they did. To them beauty was the soul of gymnastics. With us this sense of beauty has been averted from the body and been centered upon dress. The form of our body depends upon our tailor or dressmaker who will pad a little here and lace a little there, and we are satisfied if in this way we can hide our physical defects. We have grown so accustomed to only viewing dressed up people that our eye is practically unable to determine what is body and what is dress, or in other words tell the genuine from imitation. As soon as we bestir ourselves to fulfill the laws of beauty in connection with gymnastic training we will direct the instruction of it in proper channels. Frequently the mistake has

Digitized by CjOOQle
-363—

been made to utilize gymnastics only for the purpose of practicing certain accomplishments and strength feats. Sueh a procedure naturally excludes the greater majority of partipants from the benefits of a lesson and the gain of the few, even of those already well endowed, is often meagre enough. Acquired accomplishments frequently are accompanied by impaired health, and the strength feats often take more strength than they give. Again the mastery of exclusive exercise of skill and strength demands too much time, inasmuch as only one at a time can participate while the others stand about idle. Time is not sufficient for every individual even to perform an exercise, the effect of which is sufficiently general. The majority would not get sufficient exercise to experience that feeling of buoyancy which is the result of increased circulation through all parts of the body. This feeling of exhilaration is the cause of the immediate pleasure derived from physical exercise, and also the surest manifestation that the body has received that measure of exercise which is most profitable, particularly during the period of growth. Such a form of gymnastics will fail to convince parents and school authorities that this department is of value as an educational factor; it is too difficult for the pupils, particularly the less developed, who need it most. Such a system has no lofty aim, it does not render the individual more capable nor efficient for life.

If instead, however, the striving for beauty becomes the guide, then we are compelled to select our exercise to suit the ability and strength of the pupil. Exercises which are executed with all the strength the individual possesses are always ungainly. Note for example the distorted beautiless position which children often take upon the parallel bars, trapeze or other apparatus, because they lack the necessary strength to support the entire weight of the body by their arms. This is not to be interpreted as though this necessary strength should not be developed, on the contrary, this is essential. Only, this development must go on in harmony with the artistic sense; for without beauty strength easily produces coarseness. If we conceive strength solely as muscle power as is done by those whose aims are only record performances in strength feats, we must remember that such practice can easily be carried to the extreme and result in a weakening oft he vital organs, such as lungs, heart and digestive organs, rather than strengthening them. Health, in brief, depends more upon the efficiency of the organs than upon muscle power. When gymnastics in Greece was at its flight, it was property of the public, it formed an indispensable part of the education of every free man. To what degree beauty was predominant in this, the Greecian sculptors have amply convinced us; by that method the Greecian ideal of man, the free and beautiful human figure, the hero, the defender of liberty, the worthy son of his fatherland was created. We are there shown the human body ennobled through beauty. When, however, the Greecian gymnastics became merely a performance of strength feats in which indulged only a few, the athletes, it went to decay and was no longer property of the public. It had now become spectator instead of performer (just as it happens to be the case now in the arena). In the place of beauty stepped rudeness. If we had no other proof, the art of these days alone would be sufficient. But we
-364-

sec to-day the rude bully; a human body with clumsy, knotty muscles, without beauty and intelligence. Platon said that the athletes wasted their day in sleep and that when they violated the prescribed course of diet a trifle they became afflicted with severe diseases. The philosophers said of them that their mental ability decreased in the same ratio as their physical ability increased.

Now that physical education is reaching a better understanding it is reasonable to desire to learn from the experience of the Greeks, and to aim to impart this education to all people instead of lowering the standard to the level of teaching and performing a few difficult tricks or tremendous strength feats.

Games and sports and mainly ball games have justly been included in the physical education of the young as important factors. To the child playing is the most natural form of exercising. A child whom this privilege is denied becomes* crippled mentally as well as physically and becomes backward. The play chosen by the child itself is seldom of the sitting kind. If a child has been kept quiet for a time and then is let lose it will not walk quietly but will run, jump, dance and yell. It is the craving for activity which demands compensation. This desire is as strong as that of hunger and thirst. To play is the first expression of will in the child, or better, its first form of energy. The will, as ability to chose and to act, has its origin here.

Father and mother who observe that their child throws itself into play with its entire youthful soul have reason to be happy. This gives promise to a sound and energetic future. “Through play the sense conceptions are sharpened, and the ever changing dispositions deepen the sensibility. It gives to the child a fair taste of the pleasure resulting from work, the purest pleasure we experience in life, the will is trained and the entire inner man is brought into harmony by the vivid working together of the various dispositions.” Gymnastics and play, both have their advantages; while they cannot take each other’s place they supplement each other. Strife between the two is therefore needless. The teachers of the two need only be conscious of the fact that each one renders his share to the final goal, namely: the entire education of man—not only the one or the other side of it. . The essential advantages of gymnastics have already been discussed. The greatest advantage of play perhaps is the fact that it takes place out of doors. Man was created for a life in' the open air and sunshine’; that is where he belongs. For this reason gymnastics must never deprive the child of play. It must aim to keep alive the pleasure and joy of vivacious activity during the winter, and awake abilities which may be applied in the games of the following summer. Gymnastics lead to immediate and punctual obedience and also to subordination to the will of a superior. In this way we grow accustomed to consider ourselves parts of a whole where all respond alike and absolutely to the same instruction. The various games and particularly the ball games teach independent action and personal initiative; every one has his problem and feels that he must solve it to make the game as a whole a success. Thus playing becomes instrumental in joining and strengthening the character, the independence, determination

Digitized by CjOOQle
—305—

and the energy; it fosters the feeling of good fellowship which in later life forms the fundamental conception of society; it enhances in later life ready obedience to the law and teaches the differentiation of right and wrong. Never is youth more determined and just than in its adjustment of all cases of cheating or violating of rules.

Playing teaches the hot-head to control his temper, and it draws the shirk out of his laziness. To all this has to be added the great joy which results from playing. Joy is the best physician for the senses as well as for the body; a feeling of youthful lile-joy rushes through the body, and a refreshed, free mind is not easily misled by secret temptations. It were better that going out for pleasure meant something more than to seek the dreary atmosphere of questionable show houses and stupidly and inactively observe often slippery performances. Physiologically the games are of greatest value because they consist mainly of running. To move the body forward rapidly as is the case in run-ning, gives a tremendous work-coefficient. Running causes heart and lungs to work considerably faster. But only in this way can we strengthen these organs best. The throwing off of carbon is not their only function; oxygen is taken in also. “Oxygen is a food in form of air, and less indispensable for us than eating; at the same time it is a stimulant for the life functions.”

Thus in running we do not only strengthen and exercise the legs but the entire body, which benefits by this oxygen-laden blood, circulating rapidly through all the tissues. Not only against bodily anemia but also against the mental one, of which it it is said our youths are suffering, games offer the best remedy.

Play should become the nucleus of all pleasures and pastimes of our youths, particularly where both sexes are joined for festivities. The desire for play ought to be taken in with the mother’s milk and be laid aside only very late in life. Parents should demand a large sunny playground besides a roomy gymnasium for their children. Whatever the expense, compared with the health of the children, it will prove cheap.

The danger to lose ourselves in individual performances threatens, as stated above, gymnastics of today, but the games too, and especially those indulged in by the older children and adults, are in thie same danger, namely sport. Sport, too, can become a one-sided striving to outdo others. It is quite frequent that all we care for is to break records, win medals, in order to parade our prominence among the spectators and in newspapers. Those lovers of sport who finish a contest utterly exhausted hardly set a good example in the sense that it might awaken a desire in the spectator to avail himself of such exercises. Unfortunately it will always be this form of sport which will enjoy the staunch support of the press. To read of extraordinary performances of individuals is, of course, interesting, but that the young as a whole are engaged in bodily training is of no consequence, no more than it is of interest that they stud}f mathematics and languages. In this way. however, the press causes the public to form an erronious conception of the real aim. The work of bodily education ought to be ns much a peaceful, every-day performance as this is the case with the entire education. We hear remarks that in Denmark the running sport is

Digitized by CaOOQle
-306-

highly developed because it has several good runners who can challenge any comer; or that football is highly developed with us because we in Copenhagen have a team that has defeated a foreign team. Would it not be a source of greater pride if we could say, Denmark stands high in football because it is played by all schools and by all young men? Even though it might not be played as scientifically within all the the rules, it would have aided in raising the physical condition of a whole people.

Sport of this kind, where individuals are brought into competition with one another, is the one which never experiences general practice, such as wrestling, athletic strength-feats, running races, walking races, and the bicycle race. Here we need not be considerate; here pride and vanity have free play, different from the organized effort of play. These sorts of contests frequently cause an excessive and therefore detrimental effect. No driver could whip his horse more mercilessly than pride and vanity do those over whom they have become master during a hot contest. In other forms of sport where teams face each other the individuals are not tempted to these exaggerations. This must be the reason why the ball games find greater prominence and why they are considered to be of greater pedagogical value.

In these games the individual player can only be successful if he works for the success of the whole, and through this constant consideration for a general result a boundary is not set against vanity. There is no danger of the player’s losing interest. The battle with his adversary will keep his emulation keen. Many reader will remark: There may be some truth in what has been said here about physical education, blit let us not forget that the body is something subordinated; first of all we must concern ourselves with the development of the soul. Without reservation we must reply: Yes. that is true, the soul embodies the worth of life. The welfare of the soul is the centre of all. Now it happens that if we chose to reach a certain destination we simply have to go there; if we wish to reach a certain end, then we have to use the available means to accomplish it, and so it happens that if we want the welfare of the soul we must also want the welfare of the body; only by means of the body can the soul work outward, and the condition of the body has far-reaching consequences over the entire realm of the soul.

Did not Goethe say:	“Such	a perfect body keeps the soul clean and

the robust adolescence promises a happy old age.” The soul and body are as closely related as the seed is with the soil in which it grows. The better the soil the more beautiful and richer the fruit. How many good qualities of great souls have remained dormant because the strength of the body was not sufficient. The law of life, therefore, asks every father and mother:	Do	you wish to see your child health}’ and

grow up beautifully; do you wish to see it with red cheeks and bright eyes; do you wish it do have sound sleep and joyful awakening; do you wish to give it clear thoughts? Then permit him activity. Do you want it to have pleasure in work instead of thinking it a burden; do you wish to save it from fretfulness and unsociableness? Then furnish work for the muscles, which will drive away laziness. Do

Digitized by ejOOQle
-307-

you wish to presevre the chastity of your child? Then give it the privilege of a gradual systematic development, so that it does not ripen prematurely like a half-grown fruit. Do you wish to furnish him with energy, firm will, the ability of all abilities; are }'OU going to give your son strength, so that he may be able to endure prosperity as well as hard times, then do not .forget how to render his body serviceable.

If you desire to see healthy grandchildren, take care that your child enter into matrimony sound in body. This high and moral duty toward your family and your country" you can lullfil only if you let your growing children enjoy that which is necessary for their physical development—namely activity.

INDIVIDUAL PRACTICE IN THE GYMNASIUM.

(The ‘Kiirturnen' of the German System or Gymnastics.)

By C4RL J. KROH, University of Chicago.

Individual practice of gymnastics, independent of class, group or team work, can be considered only as the sequence of a carefully ordered procedure, implying an extended preliminary, disciplinary preparation, analogous to that of any other independent exercise demanding training and education. It is primarily a question of discipline, and as such cannot be decreed off-hand, it being obviously improper to turn loose a class of gymnastic pupils for an indiscriminate use of the various gymnastic paraphernalia without such discipline.

Considered in its proper place, it offers many material and educational advantages and becomes a fruitful source of highly profitable results.

Granted,as a reward at the close of a satisfactory lesson, or in response to a demand for free and unrestrained activity, as an opportunity for a few to excel, or to suit the convenience for a moment, or worse, that of the teacher, it fails in its essential purpose as a stimulating factor toward progressive activity.

In its highest import it should represent the fullest realization of appropriate and correct methods in physical training and gymnastics. Proficiency in class-work attained—the fundamental free g3'mnastics always regarded as a preparation for the elementary apparatus work — it leads to a recognition of the various phases of skill and aptitude developed, justifying a gradation of material, and necessitates the organization of distinct groups, from which again the product, competent and reliable in the advanced forms of work and order, is graduated into ‘representative’ squads, the members of which, by virtue of their accomplishments, share in the responsibilities as well as the rights and privileges of the gymnasium.

The outward characteristic of a general individual practice is had in its manifold gymnastic activities, illustrative of the freest utilization of acquired skill and proficiency toward a mastery of the ever-recurring problems of gymnastic movement forms. Its psychological characteristic is recognized in a self-determination or devotion to order, in a promotion of common interests through exemplary self-activity with a view to engendering a spirit of emulation, in ‘self-help,’ and mutual assistance.

Digitized by CjOOQle
MUJP ftND BODY. ^

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Published Monthly.

BY

Subscription Price, f 1.00 per Year.

StCLlreysn lrCe, Wlacon Bln.

Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wi* Address all editorial correspondence to WM. A. STECHER, 1347 Colwyn St., Philadelphia, Pa.

—To the learning of the causes of truancy and of finding the best means for preventing it Chicago assembled within its limits many of the most earnest workers and thinkers in sociology early in December. As physical training, in its broadest sense, is one of the most effectual means for making school life more interesting, the trend of the papers and debates at this conference merit more than a passing notice. Our readers who would like* a fuller report are referred to “Charities/* December 22, 1906, from whifch we take the following:

“It is false to assume that the normal child should go to school. It is the normal thing that the child shall go where it pleases, and we must discover the reasons why the child shall go to school.’* These words of a speaker are rather a strong way of putting the problem that was in everyone’s mind and toward the solving of which the conference directed its thought. It was another framing of the indictment against the average school curriculum which is sounded by the National Society for the Promotion of Industrial Education. Here the speakers were getting at the question, not from the standpoint of increased industrial efficiency in the workman, but from the standpoint of making the school so fit the child's development that truancy would be unknown. But the answer was largely the same. “Send the whole boy to school” was found to mean not only increased efficiency in life, but an absorption of the boy’s interest to such an extent that “playing hookey” would never enter his head. It means all the difference between a boy's flattening his nose on the inside, or the outside of the school room window. If you give him what President Eliot calls the “joy of achievement”—for that responds to the instinctive desire of the boy as well as of the man—he will find his greatest happiness in the school, and any city where manual or industrial training fbrms a vital part of the school curriculum can prove it.

There are many other things that count in the campaign to prevent truancy —to deal with its causes. As pointed out, many of the things that we have been accustomed to use only as cures, after the child has become a truant or incorrigible, are quite as effective as preventive measures and as positive forces in the development of the normal boy or girl.

Such for instance is the sense of responsibility in actually playing a part in community life, to which W. R. George, founder of the George Junior Republic, directed attention. Such again is the proper investigation of physical defects and the system of medical inspection—not merely for the patently abnormal child, the aggravated case, but for all school children. Such is the right kind of exercise and school gymnastics. Such, in aNvord, are many other kinds of special attention we have heretofore given only to the exceptional child to the defective. Even more concretely was this presented in a report of the “causes of truaney in eight Chicago public schools including a home investigation of eight hundred truant children,” which showed how truancy is bound up with all the pressing social conditions and problems which reach their greatest acuteness in our congested city centers. One speaker, Miss Addams, declared that the reform school is better than the average school, and that when we have the same sense of compunction and sympathy and affection for the average child that we bestow

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS

Digitized by

Google
-369-

iipon the abnormal or exceptional one, things will go better in our educational progress.

—The following editorial of the “Chicago Tribune’,* will be good reading for such clubs, associations and societies that look only to the physical training of their members and that entirely neglect mental culture. It is in line with the demands of the Turnerbund to place mental and physical training on an equal basis.

“At a recent meeting of the Association for the advancement of Science the argument was brought forward that not only is there danger of the depopulation of the United States for reasons rather tediously emphasized by alarmists, but that the prospects for the race hereabout were never more flattering. Dr. McGee of St. Louis was especially optimistic and contended briskly that the American of tomorrow “would be taller, stronger, more intellectual, and more humanitarian than the American of to-day.** This is extremely gratifying, so far as it goes, and gives us spirit and courage for the enterprises of the new year.

At the same time, with proper appreciation of the virtues of this prediction, the hope may be expressed that in other respects the American of to-morrow will continue to progress and set an example of excellence to the world at large. It is a good thing to be tall and strong, with well developed biceps and sturdy legs, and progress in a physical direction is much to be desired, but while we are reaping the benefits of attention to physical culture we may not neglect other details likely to prove to our advantage and our reputation. We may further improve the hours as they may shine by studying our intellectual weaknesses and bv cultivating a more reposeful spirit in the accomplishment of world tasks. We can take ourselves quite as seriously and a little less noisily. We can learn that earnestness, even exuberance, of purpose is not necessarily defined by explosiveness, and that while we are accomplishing great reforms and exiting the admiring attention of other peoples in other lands the virtue lies in the work performed and not in the hurray and noisy demonstration that accompany it. Great achievements do not consist wholly of dynamite and blasting. The most effective reformer is the one who is not abusive, and the truest philanthropist is the one who is not ostentatious.

The American of to-morrow undoubtedly needs something more than the mere adding of inches to his stature, or power of his forearm. He will, if he progresses intelligently, build up something more beneficial than mere physique. While he is not totally neglecting his body or despising the virtues of humanitarianism, he may busy himself with problems of government which hitherto he has ignored. He may undemonstratively fit himself for good citizenship, may interest himself intelligently in the affairs of his city, state, and nation, and may acquire that knowledge and experience which will enable him to assist in building up a system of city government devoid of the carelessness, ignorance, and dishonesty of the past. The depopulation of the human family in the United States is a bugaboo that may trouble no waking thoughts. A profound association of scientists assures us that we are growing sturdier and taller. And so if we can become noisy with equal
-370-

energy, more reflective, more individually earnest aud purposeful in the acquisition of good and useful citizenship, and better equipped for the duties necessary to the establishment and perpetuation of an ideal republic, we shall have further opportunity to congratulate the American of to-morrow ”

—Most of us who advocate “right living’’ would be looked at rather curiously if we said that disease is a “good thing’’ as it teaches lessons of sanitation more forcibly than any amount of talking. But read the following written by a physician to the “N. Y. Herald’’:

“The duties and obligations of civilized life do not always allow the most fortunate enough sleep and enough food and time enough to digest it, but all of us are at times subjected to more worry and hurry than is consonant with the well balanced condition which usually resists the onslaught of specific disease bacteria or germs that give rise to pneumonia, diphtheria and a number of other fell diseases. On the principle advanced by an eminent English surgeon some time ago with reference to abdominal pain, pneumonia and other diseases must be looked upon as rather good things, lor they give us all a chance to moralize on the right way of living as social units, and on cleanliness generally. The great lesson that disease germs teach us is, if we keep clean and live temperately and physiologically, individually and all together socially, disease germs won’t find it profitable to upset us; our powers of resistance will be too great for them. So long as we remain what we are the physicians will be a necessity.”

—It is certainly encouraging to seethe interest now taken in games, but it seems to us that the tendency to invent new games is bringing forth strange flowers. Many of the games brought forward in some of the collections of games are not worth while trying with children as they lack all the essential points of a true game. Some teachers seem to forget that it is not a great many games that each age needs, but lots of time to play a few' good games. Just look at the following taken from the ‘‘N. Y. Telegraph

“Games that can be played at the table during meals not only have.a chastening effect on a large and healthy family of children but furnish interest and instruction as well.

“Sources” is a game that can be played where the children are of several different ages. The scene of activity is the dinner or luncheon table, but the fun in the play is made by the edibles the youngsters ask to have passed them. For when a boy or girl requests another to hand the bread, salt, etc., if he or she cannot satisfactorily answer the question the latter asks about the dish, the food wanted is not passed, unless another child is appealed to and another question answered.

When one child asks for the salt, another may say, “Where does it come from ?” Unless he or she can answer this, he must eat his food unsalted or appeal for another question from a different youngster who is within polite reach of the salt. This boy or girl may ask how it is made. If he or she can answer this, the salt is passed. When Grace wants some oatmeal, Alfred may have his chance at revenge by asking, “How long to you have to cook it?” Smaller children can well be included in this game. A little bov or girl may be asked to spell sugar, or to tell one thing about butter before he can have it on his bread. He can say it is made in a churn, or that it is yellow. The older children may require elaborate answers as to source and processes. As they grow accustomed to the possibilities they will think up posers that will be hard lor grown-ups to keep pace with. Some parent or older person should be appointed as judge and must be considered the court of last appeal in the case of any dispute.”

The one who invented this game ought not to have had anything to cat for a week.

Digitized by VjOOQle
-371-

Now look at this from Chicago. Here we not only read of a new game but we also have the beginning of a new trust to control the game.

A meeting will be held tomorrow night at the Grand Pacific to complete the organization to control and promote the new game of Playground Ball. Permanent officers will be elected and plans made to introduce the game in all large cities in the United States and Canada.

The organization probably will be known as the Playground Ball Association t of America.

Playground Ball is a cross between the regular game of baseball and indoor baseball. The diamond is to have a thirty-five foot base line with a pitching distance of thirty feet. The pitcher will deliver the ball with the underhand motion.

The baserunner will not be allowed to leave his base on a steal until the ball has left the pitcher’s hand. Three balls, instead of four, will entitle a player to walk. The bat will be made of hickory, similar to the indoor baseball bat.

The ball is to be not less than twelve inches nor more than fourteen inches in circumference, weighing about eight and one-half ounces. Ten players will constitute a side.

The batsman, on hitting the ball when he is first to bat, or when there is no one on base, can run to first or third base as preferred. This will keep the fielders guessing, as they are liable to make the play to first, while instead the batsman will run to third. Here is where the value of the two shortstops will come in. The following batter will be obliged to travel the same route taken by the preceding batsman, or as long as there is any one on base.

This game can be played in any schoolyard or vacant lot lacking the necessary space lor baseball.

Why any one should call this a new game and try to control it, one cannot understand, as it is simply a modified game of baseball adapted to the smaller space of a gymnasium or playground.

—Athletics as a means for increasing the attendance of Sunday schools is surely a novel move. This is what we received from Brooklyn, N. Y.:

Several years ago one or two enthusiastic followers of athletics decided that it would be a good idea both for the spiritual as well as the physical welfare of the boys of Brooklyn to start in the Sunday schools of the borough a league that would be to the churches what the Public School Athletic League is to the schools. The idea at once met with favor among the Sunday school scholars and it was found that by making the eligibility of a member of the league depend upon his attendance at Sunday school, the number of boys who reported each Sunday was wonderfully increased.

— It is encouraging to observe that all subjects relating to a better training of children are receiving thoughtful consideration. In the “Charities” wc find the following:

“If it’s a diversity of ideas that tends to make a discussion valuable, the meeting of the American Society of Sanitary and Moral Prophylaxis, held in the New York Academy of Medicine on December 13, should certainly prove a benefit. The meeting was called to consider public school instruction in the physiology and hygiene of sex. Some speakers advocated a broadening of the school curriculum along these lines; some believed that too much is already being done and others thought the subject should not be brought into the elementary schools at all—that the university is the proper place for such instruction. One thing the meeting seemed to bring out, as Thomas M. Bnlliet, of New York University, said at the outset. “At present it is a cpicstion of studying the problem. Later we may do more.” Dr. Balliet believed that the school must in some way take the burden that the fathers and mothers are neglecting. He said that theoretically it is the business ot the home, just as it is the business of the home to teach sewing and cooking, but if the home will not do its plain duty the

Digitized by U.ooQle
-372-

school must assume the responsibilty. How the school should do this, was a question.

Dr. Burt Green Wilder, professor of physiology in Cornell University, spoke from the standpoint of a non-practitioner who has made an extensive study of the problem. He said that from the testimony of medical men—the men who are fighting hardest against the disease—there is an incredible amount of corruption and vice that must be overcome. “If we can take care of our boys, the men will take care of themselves. The question remains—shall we leave the work for the parents or for the community r"	#

Dr. Helen C. Putnam, chairman of a committee to investigate the teaching * of hygiene in public schools, advocated an extension of school curriculums to include not only elementary instruction, but instruction in the higher grades of grammar and high schools. From intimate knowledge ol conditions in the schools, Dr. Putnam held that as a general rule teachers have not enough knowledge of their subject, and what teaching is done is done too early. She declared that "our citizenship is suffering from infant instruction only," and cited examples from schools that have successfully broadened curriculums to include the older pupils. The best solution of the problem she saw in a growth of knowledge on the part of*the teachers (to be fostered by better training in the normal schools) and a correlation of sex subjects with the other regular public school subjects.

The general discussion following the scheduled speakers brought out a great variety of freely expressed opinions ranging from a laissez-faire doctrine as far as education goes, to an advocacy of personal work in the schools among "gang" leaders.

—The second international congress on school hygiene will be held in London, England, August 5th to 10th, 1907. The Congress will be divided into the following ten sections, treating the following subjects and under the direction of wellknown authorities:

I.	The Physiology and Psychology of. Educational Methods and Work, President, Sir James Crichton-Browne, Kt.,J.P., M.D., LL.D.. F.R.S.; II. Medical and Hyienic Inspection in School; III. The Hygiene of the Teaching Profession, President, T. J. Macnamara, LL.D., M.P.; IV. Instruction in Hygiene for Teachers and Scholars, President, Sir William J. Collins. Kt.. M.P., D.L . J.P.;

V. Physical Education and Training in Personal Hygiene, President, Sir Michael Foster, K.C.B. D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S.; VI. Out of School Hygiene, Holiday Camps and Schools. The Relations of the Home and the School; VII. Contagious Diseases, Ill-Health, and other Conditions affecting Attendance. President, Sir Shirley F. Murphy, Kt., M.R.C.S.; VIII. Special Schools for Feeble Minded and Exceptional Children, President, W. H. Dickinson, M.P., J.P., D.L., B A.; IX. Special Schools for Blind, Deaf and.Dumb Children, President, The Rt. Hon. the Earl ol Crewe, P.C.. Lord President of the Council; X. Hygiene of Residential Schools, President, Clement Dukes, M.A., M.D., F.R.C.P.; XI. The School Building and its Equipment.

An Exhibition of School Building and Furnishing Appliances will be organized by the Royal Sanitary Institute in connection with this Congress.

Y. M. C. A.

—The young men’s Christian association first took up gymnastic work in 1809. The first gymnasium was opened at the San Francisco, Cal., Association Nov. lOth. The second at New York City with William Wood as director, and the third at Boston, with R. J. Roberts as director. In 1905, 673 association** report attention to Physical Training; 571 through gymnasia and 274 physical directors.

46 assistants. 613 associations report 133,627 using physical means.

Schools for Training Directors were established in Springfield. Mass.,

Digitized by CjOOQle
-373-

in 1885, and Chicago, 111., in 1890. On Oct. 3, 1895, an athletic league was organized. In 1897 the Athletic League Hand-Book, giving gymnastic and athletic rules, rules for games, etc., was published.

The emblem of Association gymnasts and athletes is an even-sided triangle, which stands for the all-round, fully developed man.

In 1891 the game of basketball was invented at the Springfield Training School by James Naismith, then a teacher at the school. It was the result of a deliberate effort to devise an interesting athletic game with a minimum of objectionable features, and has been a great success. It was officially recognized by the A. A. U. February, 1897.

Association gymnastics now have an organized and progressive course with an improved nomenclature and simple methods of taking, recording and comparing anthropometric measurements. The Association gymnasiums are among the best in the country, in both design and equipment. The invention of the in-door gallery running track and padded path in 1883 by R. J. Roberts of the Boston Association, and the later development of the concave incline, made running a practical indoor exercise.

The Physical Directors* Society of the Young Men’s Christian Associations of North America was organized at Lakewood, N. Y., June, 1903.

The object of the organization is the promotion of Physical Train-ing in general and its relation to the Young Men’s Christian Association in particular. Membership consists of two classes—Active ana Associate.

The Actives are Y. M. C. A. Physical Directors and Assistant Physical Directors, who have been such for one year, and Associates, any Y. M. C. A. member who may be interested in Physical Training.

The present officers of the Society are George J. Fisher, M. D., New York City, President; Wm. E. Day, Dayton, 0., Sec’y-Treasurer.

The above with J. H. Crocker, Toronto, Canada, H. R. Hadcock, Winnepeg, Canada, E. W. Wilder, Worcester, Mass., J. S. Foid, Nashville, Tenn., constitute the Executive Committee.

The society has made for uniformity in the physical work of the association. A bibliography of physical training has been published consisting of over 6000 titles. Likewise a uniform manual of marching, an official manual of nomenclature and a uniform system of measurements have been adopted.

RANDOM THOUGHTS.

—Education, weighed solely as an intellectual pow’er, will ever be found wanting. To restrict one’s self to the dry bones of exclusive intellectuality and to manipulate cold facts without the quickening stir of the emotions, is a denial of the functions that give birth to great thoughts. The unrefined sympathy, characteristic of an imagery de-crying the play of healthy emotion, deserves the denial it receives from the world at large. Whatever walk in life we contemplate, whichever the realm—with feet on mother earth, or soaring into the ideal—the balance, constituting the weightier lever, will be found on the side of those attributes, which gravitate toward righteous conviction through the emotions.

The foundation of our republic had for its safe guard the native en-

Digitized by ^ooQle
-374-

dowment of its great citizenship, which invariably materializes toward that potency inherent in the noble and humane, in sentiment and righteous action. Were this not as it is, our system would fail—the masses and the influences they wield, would err oftener in the shaping of our destinies. Our chief representatives, with few exceptions, have reflected this fact.

Where we negate this thought we do not reflect the background of moods and motives.

—ERRATA.—Page 324, 3rd line from foot read “united effort” instead of “limited effect.”

THE NORMAL SCHOOL OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION.

THE resolutions adopted at Newark last July by the National Convention of the “Turnerbund,” empowering its National Executive Committee material!}' to extend and enlarge the course offered to the students at its normal school, has resulted in a radical move. As will be seen by the following “Resolutions,” the school will be enlarged to a Normal College for the training of teachers of gymnastics for societies and for the public schools. While a two years’ course will be required, a student has the option of continuing for either one or two years 1 onger and so fitting himself for a position requiring more study. The transfer to Indianapolis was made on account of the superior college, gymnasium and class room facilities, as well as the tender of a large guarantee fund which secures the new college against all financial troubles.	'

RESOLUTIONS UNANIMOUSLY ADOPTED BY THE NATIONAL EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION.

Resolved, That the Normal School of Gymnastics founded by the North American Gymnastic Union in 1861, reorganized in 1868, and conducted by said organization since 1891 in the city ot Milwaukee, shall from and after August 31, 1907, be located in the city of Indianapolis, and be known thenceforth by the name and style of the “Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union.”

Resolved, That said Normal College shall offer one , two-, three- and four-year courses to prospective teachers of physical training who, prior to matriculation, shall have completed the four-year course of an approved American high school, or who shall have passed equivalent entrance examinations in high school subjects, including at least three years of high school English ; provided, that all students admitted to said institution shall be persons of good moral character who are physically sound and well-formed, and whose physical training enables them to derive the full benefit from the courses in gymnastics offered them.

Resolved, That in addition to physical training and practice in teaching, the work of each college year shall include courses in letters and science that are fully equivalent to one year’s work as counted by State universities toward the baccalaureate degree.

Resolved, That upon the satisfactory completion in residence of one year’s

Digitized by
—375-

col] ege work, the student shall receive the certificate of teacher of physical training for elementary schools.

Resolved, That th* {acuity of the Normal College shall have power to confer, with the consent of the trustees, the following title and degrees:

The title of Graduate in Gymnastics, abbreviated G. G., shall be conferred on those who have successfully completed two years* work in residence at the College, but whose credit for literary and scientific subjects previously pursued in an approved college or university covers less than two years* work. The title of Graduate in Gymnastics may also be conferred, by unanimous vote of both the faculty and trustees, upon persons who completed a one-year course of the Normal School of Gymnastics, or of the Normal College, of the North Amencan Gymnastic Union, and who have had at least eight years’ successful experience as teachers of physical training; provided, that they fully meet the requirements for matriculation in force at the time of bestowing such title, and that they pass an examination in all the literary and scientific subjects of the first and second college years, and in the theory and practice of physical training as taught and applied in the second college year. In either case, the time devoted to resident work shall be given in the diploma.

The degree of Bachelor of Science in Gymnastics, abbreviated B. S. G., shall be conferred on students who entered without credit, or with less than one year’s credit, for previous college work in letters and science, upon satisfactory completion of four years’ resident work; on students with at least one year’s credit, and less than two years’ credit for such previous work, upon the satisfactory completion of three years of resident work; and upon students with at least two years* credit for such previous work, upon the satisfactory completion of two years* resident work. The degree of Bachelor of Science m Gymnastics may also be conferred, by unanimous vote of both the faculty and the trustees, on Graduates of Gymnastics of the Normal College who have hid at least twelve years* successful experience as teachers of physical training, and who, having completed the third and fourth years’ work in absence, but under the direction of the faculty, present an acceptable thesis and pass an examination in the third and fourth years’ subjects; provided, that in such cases at least three years shall have elapsed between the bestowal of the title and the bestowal of the degree. The time devoted to resident work shall be given in each diploma.

The degree of Master of Science in Gymnastics, abbreviated M. S. G., shall be conferred on those who have taken the baccalaureate degree of the Normal College, after the satisfactory completion of one year’s resident graduate work, and the presentation of an acceptable thesis; and on those who hold the baccalaureate degree (B.S., B.L., A.B., or Ph.B.) of an approved college of letters and science, after the satisfactory completion of two years’ resident work, and the presentation of an acceptable thesis. The degree of Doctor of Medicine (M. D.) shall be deemed equivalent to the baccalaureate degree of an approved college of letters and science if conferred upon the completion of a four-year course in a medical college of good standing that requires the completion of a four-year course of an approved high school, or the full equivalent thereof for admission to its first-year class.

Resolved, That the subcommittee on the Normal College be instructed to take the steps necessary for the incorporation of said college and for the enactment of a law granting its faculty the power to confer, with the consent of the trustees, the title and degrees hereinbefore mentioned and defined.
-376-

Resolved, That during the five college years beginning in September, 1907, and ending in June, 1912, the North American Gymnastic Union shall contribute $3,000 annually toward the maintenance of its Normal College; that in addition thereto, the tuition fees paid by students shall be applied to the defrayal of the expenses of said institution for the current college year; and that, if in any of the five college years the aggregate ol the said annuity and the tuition fees shall not suffice for defraying the expenses of the College, the deficit shall be covered by leyying a pro rata assessment on a guaranty fund to be created by subscriptions, subject to the following regulations:	Each

subscriber to the fund pledges himself to pay to the treasurer of the North American Gymnastic Union on the first day of March of the years 1908, 1909, 1910, 1911 and 1912, respectively, on ten days* notice, such a percentage, not exceeding one hundred per cent, of one-fifth of his total subscription as shall correspond to the percentage of one-fifth of the total guaranty fund necessary to cover such deficit. In each year in which no assessment is levied, or in which the subscriber shall have paid the required percentage of one-fifth of the total amount subscribed by him, his total subscription shall be deemed to have been diminished by one-fifth of the amount thereof.

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

( Continued^

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus and close with “Knapsack Race.” As a preliminary a short run. In front rank count off to fours or sixes. Class r. face

and ranks file 1. to location for drill. Place	:-z

one long wand (or climbing pole) on the ^ floor to the 1. of each rank. (See cut).

Bend knees and grasp wand—1!

Extend knees and lift wand—2!	T

R. hand to be placed on hip.	T

LONG WAND DRILL.

1.	Toe-touch sidew. 1. and raise wand sidew. I.—1! Pos.—2! Bend-kneestep sidew. 1. and raise wand sidew. overh.—3! Pos.—4!

NOTE.—Raise wand overh., grasp with r. hand from below (palm outw.)—-i ! Low«r wand to r. side and place 1. hand on hips—a*! Or; L. about face, grasp wand with r. hand and release grasp of 1. 1 land—i, a! Then repeat same exercise on the r. side. Return by r. about face, etc.

2.	Toe-touch forw. 1. and raise wand forw. 1.—1! Pos.—2! Bend-kneestep forw. 1. and raise wand forw. overh.—3! Pos.—4! Same opposite.

3.	Stride pos. sidew. 1. and raise wand over 1. shoulder—1 ! Bend 1.

knee and stretch 1. arm sidew.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same opp.

4.	L. face on r. heel, stride forw. 1., raise wand in front of shoulders and also grasp with r. hand—1 ! Bend trunk forw. and stretch arms downw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same opp.

In place—rest! Pos.—stand !

5.	L. face on r. heel, stride pos. backw. 1. and raise wand in front of

Digitized by C,ooQLe
-377-

shoulders—1 ! Bend trunk backw. anu stretch arras forw. upw. obi.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same opp.

«►. Cross toe-touch forw. 1. and raise wand over 1. shoulder—1! Lunge sidew. 1. and stretch 1. arm sidew. upw. obi.—2.! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same opp.

Reverse grasp of 1. hand.—

7.	Jump to stride pos. outw., raise wand overli. and also grasp with r. hand—1! Bend trunk sidew. 1.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same opp. with wand lowering to 1. side every time, or to lower to the r. when bending to that side.

Class face toward the I. or r. side, grasping wand with both hands and knuckles upw.

H.	a) Stationary run with raising lower legs backw. alt. and holding

wand a given number of counts in the pos. forw., overh., in front of shoulders, again overh., lower forw., halt and lower wand to starting pos. b) Repeat with raising extended legs forw. alt. and holding wand in various pos.

S.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise wand overh. in four counts; exhale and lower wand forw. slowly in four counts. Repeat 4 times.

Bend knees and place wand on floor—1! Release grasp, extend knees to fundamental pos.—2!

NOTE.—After finishing any one exercise the wand need not necessarily be returned to the 1. side to start the new exercise in order, but start the new exercise on the other side where the former one was finished

The ranks r. face, march forw. and file r. to form a long flank rank and then to assigned places for apparatus work. The last member of each rank to remove the poles.

First Division: High horizontal bar.

Second	“	Low parallel bars.

Third	“	Side horse.

Fourth	“	Oblique ladder (under side).

Change places. Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division.—High Horizontal Bar.

Jump to sti night arm hang and hands in ordinary grasp—

I.	Swing, at end of front swing raise feet to bar, squat backw. with 1. leg and swing up to side riding seat (on 1. thigh); circle backw. once or twice around bar in this pos.; circle r. leg forw. and join 1. leg to side seat; drop backw.; squat forw, and underswing with V2 turn 1. to front side stand.

Hands in reverse grasp —

2.	As ex. 1, to side riding seat r. instead of 1.; circle forw. once or twice around bar in this pos.; change grasp to ordinary and circle 1. forw. to side seat; drop backw., squat forw., feet to bar and, kip (upstart) to front rest and immediately add front vault 1. or r.

Digitized by
-;t78-

Hands in reverse grasp —

.‘5. Swing, and at end of forw. swing raise feet to bar, squat backw. 1. and inside knee circle forw. to side riding rest on 1. thigh, then place r. foot tinder bar and instep resting against the same (le>g extended), slide 1. leg backw. and rest on bar at knee joint, the r. arm to be raised (pos. for screw circling forw.j; screw circle forw. twice; V2 turn 1. with circling r. leg over bar to join 1.; the r. hand to transfer to ordinary grasp and front rest to the farther side ; drop kip (upstart), then free front hip circle backw. and down to front side stand.

Hands in ordinary grasp—

4.	Swing, at front swing raise feet to bar, squat backw. with both legs and circle forw. to holding both legs at r. angle over bar; circle backw. twice around bar in this pos.; drop backw., squat forw., feet to bar, kip (upstart) and immediately high f^ont vault 1. or r.

NOTE.—Those who can may try hand balance and turn I. or r. on lowering.

Hands in reverse grasp—

5, Swing, at front swing feet to bar, kip (upstart) to front rest; swing both legs backw. and upw. to momentary bent arm or hand balance, continue circle forw. around bar and pull up to front rest at end of backw. swing; squat forw. to holding both legs at r. angle over bar; circle forw. twice around bar in this pos. and at the finish of the second circle dismount forw. to back side stand.

ti. An exercise free for all.

Change place with the second division on the low parallel bars.

First Division.—Low Parallel Bars (side jumps).

A short run precedes all exercises.

1.	Front vault r. over near bar to cross rest, swing forw., lower backw. to upper arm rest and flex both legs over body; kip (upstart) and front vault r.

2.	Rear vault r. over near bar to cross rest, swing backw., turn o\er forw. to upper arm balance ; roll over forw. to outside cross seat in front of 1. hand; raise both legs forw., swing them backw., then ^4 circle 1. (cut forw. under r. hand) with both legs, swing backw. again and double rear vault r.

M. Front vault r. to cross rest, swing forw., lower backw. to upper arm rest and thighs flexed over body; roll over backw. to upper arm balance, then continue roll over and V2 turn 1. or r. to straddle seat in front of hands; raise both legs forw., swing backw. to hand balance and turn over sidew. 1. or r. to cross stand.

4.	Rear vault r. over near bar to cross rest and immediately drop kip to upper arm balance; roll over forw. and flex thighs over body, then kip to straight arm rest; lower to outside cross seat behind the r. hand; feint with both legs and double rear vault r.

5.	An exercise free for all.

NOTE.- Repeat all exercises I. and r. whenever possible.

Digitized by Google
Second Division—Low Parallel Bars (side jumps).

A short run precedes all exercises.

1.	Front vault r. over near bar to cross rest; swing forw., cut backw. under I. hand with r. leg, the 1. Jeg to swing backw. between the bars and front vault r. over farther bar.

2.	Rear vault r. over near bar to cross rest, swing backw., cut forw. under r. hand with r. leg, the 1. leg to swing forw. between the bars, swing backw. between bars with both legs, then cut forw. under 1. hand with 1. leg, the r. leg to swing forw. between the bars and rear vault r.

3.	Front vault r. to cross rest, swing forw., lower backw. to upper arm rest with thighs flexed over body, kip (upstart), cut forw. under 1. hand with 1. leg, then cut backw. under r. hand with 1. leg and immediately back scissors (M2 turn 1.) to straddle seat behind hands; place hands in front of thighs, turn over forw. to upper hand balance; turn over sidew. to cross stand.

4*. Rear vault r. to cross rest, swing backw. and turn over forw. to upper arm balance; roll over forw. and flex thighs over body; kip upstart), at end of backw. swing, cut forw. under I. hand with 1. leg, then cut backw. under r. hand with 1. leg and front vault 1. with or without M2 turn 1. to cross stand (the r. leg swings forw. and backw. between the bars).

5. An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Execute all exersiscs 1. and r. whenever possible.

Change place with the first division on the high horizontal bars.

Second Division.—High Horizontal Bars.

1.	Jump to straight arm hang, hands in ordinary grasp, raise both legs upvv., then front hip circle backw. (pull up slowly over bar) to front rest; lower backw. with raising both legs forw. at r. angle; repeat above, and down.

2.	As ex. 1, to feet in front of bar, then squat backw. with both legs

and extend	upw.; pull up over bar to	back rest;	M2 turn	1. or	r. to

front rest;	lower forw. slowly to front hang,	head down;	then

lower forw. through the front lever to hang (feet down), down.

3.	Swing, and at end of second front swing raise lcet to har, kip to straight arm free front rest, then free front hip circle backw. to straight arm hang, swing forw. and V2 turn 1., transfer grasp of r. hand to farther side (the 1. hand now in reverse grasp), swing forw., raise leet to bar, kip to front rest and front vault r. to cross stand.

4.	Jump to hang, raise feet to bar and immediately free front hip

circle backw. to hang, swing forw., raise feet to bar, kip to front rest; M? circle r. with both legs to back rest; drop backw., squat forw. with	both legs, feet to bar, and	again kip	to front	rest,	then

finish with	rear vault r. or 1. to cross	stand.

5.	Swing and pull up to front rest at the end of the first backw. swing; front hip circle backw. to hang and at the end of the forw. swing swing up over bar to front rest (Mg giant swing); drop kip
-380-

to front rest and immediately Vq circle 1. with both legs to back rest; drop backw., squat forw. with both legs and underswing to back side stand.

6.	An exercise free for all.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same exercises. The third to begin on the side horse and the fourth on the oblique ladder, then change places.

Side Horse.

A short run precedes all exercises.

1.	Jump to momentary front rest and V2 circle r. with 1. leg to side riding rest; V2 circle 1. with r. leg and join 1. to back rest; raise both legs forw. and dismount with ^4 turn 1.

2.	As ex. 1, to side riding rest; screw mount forw. 1. on neck to cross riding seat;.swing both legs backw. to free front rest and dismount backw.

3.	As ex. 2, to cross riding seat; swing both legs backw. and backw. scissors; place hands in front and straddle dismount forw.

4.	Jump to front rest and feint with right leg, then V2 circle r. with 1. leg to side riding rest; squat backw. 1. to front side stand and immediately Wolf vault forw. 1.

5.	As ex. 4, to side riding rest; scissors sidew. r.; squat backw. r. to front side stand and immediately flank vault forw. 1.

6.	An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Execute all exercises 1. and r. whenever possible.

Oblique Ladder (under side).

In front leaning hang.—Both feet resting on the first or second round and hands in outside grasp on beams on a level with the chest.—

1.	Bend and extend arms. 4 or 6 times. Down.

Hands in inside grasp on beams.

2.	As ex. 1. 4 or 6 times. Down.

3.	Starting position as ex. 1, and travel upw., the 1. foot and 1. hand moving simultaneously, and vice versa; descend in the same manner.

4.	As ex. 3, with hands on inside of beams.

In front cross hand hang, hands in outside grasp on beams.

5.	Travel upw. by moving hands alt. Descend in the same manner.

fl. As ex. 5, with side swinging.

7.	As ex. 5, but in back cross hand hang.

8.	Travel upw. as in ex. 5, but descend by moving both hands simultaneously.

0. An exercise free for all.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and form a front rank and prepare for “Knapsack Race'4. Count off to twos, then twos 14 T T T ■ 1 wheel I. (or r.), march forw. and file 1. or r. to line up at one end t T T T ^ of the gymnasium and turn toward the other end, thus:

The members standing in front act as carriers or ponies ; those in the rear act as riders, they mount the ponies upon a given signal and at once race to the farther end where the riders jump down, both turn about, exchange place and leturn as quickly as possible to the starting point, each couple endeavoring to arrive first. Repeat once. Clap hands once and dismiss. (To be continued.)

Digitized by Google
-.WITHE DEFENSIVE STYLE IN BASKET BALL AS OPPOSED TO THE AGGRESSIVE GAME.

Styles of play used by basket ball coaches in tutoring iheir proteges in the rudiments of the winter game vary to a large extent, but several local experts insist that team < coached in defensive play are, as a rule, superior to fives which use the aggressive method —that of following the ball all over the floor and shooting for baskets from any position by either forwards, center or guards. They argue that this is so at the beginning of the season, and many think it will hold good through the year.

Coaches declare that the average basket ball fan could not tell after watching a game what style of play the teams had been coached in, except in a dazed way. It is said that defensive teams, strong in this style of play, are scored upon seldom and when opportunity arises their forwards send over goal after goal which in the tired condition of their opponents appears easy and often gives spectators the idea that the loosing team has been outclassed.

In coaching the men in defensive play the start is made with the primary idea that each man must keep between his opponent and that player’s basket. The guards must not come up to their own goal except on signal when the ball is tossed up in the center of the floor or when it is outside of the playing space. When the latter occurrence takes place a team knows which guard is to come up to receive the ball, and the forwards and center help in clearing a spot for him to shoot from. This is easily done in the vicinity of one's own basket, for a forward or center is followed by the opposing player, and all he must do is to move away and his man will follow. It is in the opponent's interest to do so. This, however, leaves the guard almost a free throw.

When a guard of the opposing team seeks laurels by dashing down the floor lor a basket, one of the forwards is assigned to cover him. On some teams the for ward, pit ted against the particular guard is employed in this role, while an agreement as to the man who shall act in this capacity is made by other coaches before the start of the game. The man who would make the best guard usually takes the ambitious guard of the opposing team.

On a defensive team the center’s position is the hardest to play, for he must play offensively under his own basket and defensively under the opponents A defensive team uses long passes as a rule to the forwards under their own basket, while an aggressive squad aims to bunch all its men under their goal, when the ball is in that vicinity, and shoot away. The sphere is brought to the position by short passes and making a man jump into the air after the ball. This is necessary because of the closeness of the men on the opposing team.

The coach who uses the aggressive style would have his men chase the ball all over the floor, keeping with it at every minute, and when by a series of short passes it reaches the desired goal there are as a rule five men of the same team to shoot for the basket. When this takes place it is generally five men against three or four, and as one or two are left loose the advantage is in favor of the team bunched about the basket. A team which uses the aggressive style of play must be extremely clever, fast and have plenty of wind before being able to succeed at this game. I believe that the dofensive play evens up the work between the forwards and guards, for the latter may stay under his own basket and be compelled to work only when the ball is tossed in his direction, while the forwards exert themselves to the greatest

Digitized by Google
extent when chasing their guards down the field. In the aggressive style of play the guards must work themselves to a frazzle, for it is their duty, along with the center, to chase the ball all over the floor and then come up and throw baskets. As a result they grow thin, while the forwards get fat and healthy, but on a defensive team every one is in the same sort of condition.

BOOK REVIEW.

All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.>.

—Rhythmical Balance Exercises. By Ethel Perrin and Mary Seely Starks.

This is a handbook of fancy steps published by the Boston Normal School of Gymnastics by two of its teachers. The steps described are named as follows: Follow-Step, Balance-Step, Gallop-Step, Polka-Step, Two-Step, Skip-Step, Change-Step, Rocking-Step, Swing-Step, Cut-Step and Mazurka-Step. An illustrated key with figures like that in “Zoni’s Book of Dancing” helps to explain the positions of the legs and feet. To teachers who have not had the training in a normal school the book will be a great help. We do not know why such a long name was adopted and a name so much at variance with the terms common here in America lor these many years. In the schools of the North American Gymnastic Union these exercises have been practiced since 1850 under the name of “Gangarten.” Other American gymnasia also have been using them for at least a generation and we are glad to find that the book says of them:	‘‘This

fact (that they are excellent movements from the standpoint of hygienic exercises, that they are invaluable as factors in the training of bodily discipline and general co-ordination, that they teach beauty of posture, freedom and grace of motion, etc.,) ‘‘this fact, together with their pleasurable features, their efficiency in promoting at the same time bodily grace and organic vigor, should insure to them a prominent place in the field of physical education.” If we had written that last sentence wc would have said, ‘‘that they ought to have a prominent place in such fields of physical education that know nothing of them.” Some people who don’t know better may, after reading what is said of these rhythmical exercises, think that these are something new. We think, therefore, that it may be of interest to know that they were practiced in Germany more than fifty years ago.—W. St.

—A Gymnastic Nomenclature. By E. H. Arnold, M. D., Director of the New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics.

This pamphlet with its terms for free exercises is the outcome of the practical work on the gymnasium floor of a normal school devoted to the training of teachers of gymnastics. The attempts at a nomenclature published so far all showed that they were the results of special conditions. The terms adopted answered for these conditions but failed when put to an all-around test. In his pamphlet Dr. Arnold gives us terms that will stand the test of public school methods. A lesson given in any branch of education, according to the rules of modern pedagogy, must also be a language lesson. That many of the arbitrary and ungrammatical terms used by some teachers of gymnastics were an abomination to all good schoolmasters is well known. This booklet gives us a nomenclature with commands that will stand the test as a language lesson; at the same time it is a means for directing bodily exercises in terms that even a child may understand. To illustrate: Even the youngest pupil in a school will know what is wanted if you tell him to ‘‘place his hands on his hips” while “hips firm” is an arbitrary term that needs an extra explanation. While it is true that even the sentence “Hands on hips—place” will need an explanation as to the detail of the position you want those hands or fingers to occupy, nevertheless the command instantly conveys to the child a gross picture of what is wanted, which the command “Hips—firm” does not do. We wonder, therefore, why in this booklet we find the command “Neck—firm”, as the command “Hands behind neck—place” would have given us a better mental picture of what was wanted. The commands for oblique positions which usually involve mental

Digitized by kjOOQle
-38:i-

gymnastics of the highest order of those who try to understand what an author meant, are clear and concise. We think that this is the best book published on this subject and hope that as the occasion offers itself all writers of lessons in gymnastics will adopt this nomenclature.—St.

—How to Sleep in a Blanket. There are a great many very competent treatises telling you how to build your fire, pitch your tent, and all the rest of it. I have never seen described the Woodmen’s method of using a blanket, however. Lie flat on your back. Spread the blanket over you. Now raise your legs rigid from the hips, the blanket of course, draping over them. In two quick motions tuck first one edge under your legs from right to left; then the second edge under from left to right, and over the first edge. Lower your legs, wrap up your shoulders, and go to sleep. If you roll over, one edge will unwind but the other will tighten. —From “Camp Equipment,” by Stewart Edward White in ‘‘The Outing Magazine” for February.

- The Current Number of Spalding’s Athletic Library is the Spalding Official Athletic Almanac for 1907, No 12, Group 12, the official amateur record book of the world, edited by James E. Sullivan.

This is the most complete book of its kind published. It contains the official American Amateur Athletic Records (Runniog, Walking, Hurdle Racing, Jumping, Vaulting, Weight Throwing, Shot Putting, Throwing the Discus, Relay Racing, Swimming, Skating and other Sports); American Track and Field, Swimming, Boxing, Wrestling, Cross-Country, and All-Around, Champions, A. A. U. District Champions, Canadian Champions, Intercollegiate Records and Champions, Collegiate Records, and a list of all American College Records ; the Western Intercollegiate Conference Meet of 1906, with the records of the Association.

A complete summary of the Olympic Games of 1906, at Athens, is given, with a descriptive article on the opening of the games, the manner in which they were conducted, etc.

ATHLETICS.

TRY THE GOLF CURE.

Any sport that takes men from work and demands more than a grandstand participation to be enioyed is a national boon. Football, baseball and rowing are team games and not much good as recreation for the many. Tennis and bowling are better, but golf is, in many way's, best of all.

Now that this game has been abandoned by fashion its real merits should establish it firmly on our soil. The chief quality that it possesses as a national sport is that it takes time and hence gives an opportunity for real relaxation and much breathing of pure air. It-must be played in some place removed from the city and the immediate associations of work, usually in a country-like spot where the pleasure of sky and landscape, grass and rolling fields, may be enjoyed in the intervals of athletic effort. It is a companionable game, without l>eing merely social; two are company, and when a couple “tee up” there is the promise of an hour or two of pleasant, untiring sociability. Then it is a “fair” game, and does not encourage sharp practices; and it rewards the defeated player almost as well as his victorious antagonist. It docs not tax the nerves as do tennis and football, and it promises sport for the duffer as well as the expert.

In the parks of our large cities there are already good public courses. The time should come when every city or town shall have its golf course where, for a small fee, any one may play the game and forget his cares, know the feeling of green turf beneath his feet and blue sky overhead.—Saturday Evening Post.

NOTE.

For lack of space the continuation of Dr. Gulick’s essay on the “Health of School Children'’ and several other articles in manuscript on hand had to be laid over for the next Issue of “Mind and Bady,” and we ask the writers’ pardon for this unexpected delay.

Digitized by CjOOQte