j tt>j> ^ TJ'Y’ itt;‘<r'"V	"; ^na

MIND AND BODY

Vol. 27

JULY 1920

No. 290

NMbieO By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHINO COMPANY, New Ula, Mtat

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE tTli. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, SaK Lake City, Utah. ElifL RATE, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D.	If. FERDINAND fcROGH, Id. D.,

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, If AM. Wlf. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantoim, PML, Pi

MiHotft) eadniudeatkmS are to be lent to Wlf. A. STECHER, 40 E. Walndt Lfne, Germaatown, Phils. Subscription payments should be tnade to Ifind and Body, New tJhh, Ifihiieeota.

BdfMed Si 9$aM~da$$ deader October 14, lilt, at ifo pddtoffich id He* tlUa, Minnesota, under Mi Act rA March 8, 18TO.



■ahhtih

{^RIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINT

miHim



VALUES OF CAMPING FOR GIRLS

fey jfcfefife F. WILLIAMS, Id. D., Associate Professor of Physical Eflufesriioh,

Teachers Collett, N. Y.

. A pood school is worth more to the nation to-day than ever before m our history. Democracy as a form of government will be found acceptable, will be changed, or will be replaced, dependent upon the standards of citizenship taught in the schools: of the; present generation. This question of training for citizenship, for life, for Americanism, as generally stated, involves much more than teaching English to foreigners, or civics to the native born. In the last analysis, it amounts to helping to develop a proper attitude toward life and one’s fellow beings; it becomes, essentially, for the adolescent girl, the acquisition of a philosophy of life.

Omit books and formal lessons and the summer camp presents the underlying principles of the school. It has certain advantages, however: it is much easier to learn in camp, where situations are evolved with all the interest and enthusiasin that gather fco nqtbntfly around primitive and natural activities. It has some dBadVahtages also: the direct and evident values Of camtrihg, Such as health and happiness, are so prominent that the more

Refuted from Teachers Collect Record, J ah nary 1$20.

Digitized by v^ooQle
158

subtle and more indirect values of character training are apt to be neglected. The camp that fails-to see the possibilities of character training, lacks imagination, and the camp that sees, but fails to seek them, stands outside the approval of educational opinion. More unfortunate is the camp that errs by carrying into its program the weaknesses and follies of some schools. Certainly the atmosphere of an "exclusive school" has no place in Nature's woods and lakes, nor should the snobbishness of classes or the vanities of privilege secure perferment in an environment of natural forces. The camp that justifies its training at all cuts right across the superficial, the exclusive, and the narrow in life, and seeks a spirit that is expressive of real values and worthy ends.

The summer camp has been justified in the minds of most people who consider it at all, because it administers to the health of the campers. Well directed and supervised exercise in all the natural racial forms has significant health value. The great out-of-doors of the mountains, forests, lakes, and rivers, gives a fine setting for baseball, tennis, volley ball, hiking, swimming, paddling, and horseback riding. Surely this is the program that Vittorino da Feltra dreamed of when he started his school at Man-tua for the sons of Italian noblemen.______________________  |jg___

The summer’camp may have a distinct contribution to make to the physical well being of its campers. Many camps, by systematic examinations and records, show in the campers an increase in weight, an increase in hemoglobin content of the blood, an increased muscular strength, and other indices of a valuable physical training. It is safe to say that most camps justify their program on the health standard; certain it is that the camp is unsuccessful and unworthy that neglects health in any way when the opportunity for improving organic power and strength is so favorable.

On the other hand, the summer camp has such unusual op-portunity for character training that the importance and trend m this direction should be stated. In particular the girls' camp may make a distinct contribution in the training of girls, a contribution that is especially significant in these days. What it contributes in this direction will depend upon the attitude taken regarding the girl’s relation to the camp program and the nature of the program itself.

From birth girls too frequently are trained, by commission or omission, to evade difficulties and avoid hardships. Children of either sex may be “spoiled” in this respect, but girls particularly are shielded and in many ways taught to seek the “easy way out." It is a rather interesting observation to note the reflection of this' attitude in parents. If a baby girl falls in its first steps, the mother runs frantically to pick it up and, murmuring soft cooing sounds, seeks to distract from the rather startling and unpleasant experience of hitting the ground. When baby brother falls, the usual response from the parent is cheerily spoken:	"Up	we	get!	Didn’t

hurt! There, be a man!” The boy is encouraged to conquer unpleasant situations, bravely, cheerily; the girl, too often, is taught

Digitized by Google
159

to expect a rescuing hand. By the time she is in her teens, she is unwilling often to meet situations that have unpleasant aspects.

The unique educative opportunity that comes in a summer’s camping should be seized and used to help the girl to self-reliance and power. The girl should be given an opportunity to share in hard situations, to meet difficulties without the sugar plums that buy performance, and to be rewarded with only the sweetening of splendid effort which overcomes and masters. Such discipline and training come as a part of the game that is played with nature, on long rivers that seem to have no end, in stormy weather that frowns dismally and gives nothing but rain, in winds that flatten tents and dnve the smoke of the camp fire always in the wrong direction, in games that are in danger of being lost, and in races so keen and fast that she who wins must indeed have “heart” and courage. It must always be an unsatisfactory summer for a girl in camp if at some time during the season her tent does not go over, if she never knows what it is to rub a blister on her heel, if the extent of her paddling consists in drifting by the white birches while her tent mate plays the ukelele. The summer camp must not be a club or hotel in the mountains. There must come, at some time, something like the beating of hard rain in her face. It should be frequent enough for her to appreciate what it means to be chastized by nature.

There is nothing in this view point of a girl’s training that seeks to emulate the philosophy of John Locke, but there should be an opportunity to meet real situations without expecting someone to step in and “save the day,” without hoping to give an excuse for non-performance, or without seeking to be judged by standards so weak and ineffectual that they cease to be anything more than the “aspirations of weak sisters.” The girl should be carefully supervised in her effort. Medical and expert professional counsellors should control the situation to prevent overdoing in foolish ways and exposure in silly predicaments. The girl in a summer of real camping needs not less, but more supervision than is usually given.

No less important than real situations in camping are the competitive games in which a girl battles for her team. A simple illustration will make plain the importance of this training for her. A few summers ago, two boys were playing on opposite sides in a baseball game. They bantered back and forth throughout the game, adding zest to their play and intensity to the whole situation. After the game all the contestants went to the lake for the afternoon swim. The two boys who had so earnestly been opposing each other a half-hour before were standing on the dock with their arms on each other’s shoulders. The girls were heard to remark, “Well, what do you think of that! Look there at .	.	.	and

.	!”	Because	of	the usual, narrow and incomplete training it

is difficult for girls to understand intense opposition without personal antagonism. Girls, as a rule, take opposition as personal, are extremely sensitive to criticism, and refuse to play the game vigorously because of unpleasant personalitites that may be en-

Digitized by L^OOQle
160

countered in the fray- For this reason, competitive games are moot valuable and are vastly superior to all forms of dancing for girls. This is so because the girl to-day is growing into a world of affairs in which women are taking an increased share. In business, in the professions, in industry, the woman of to-day needs the sort of training that games can give.

The girl of the mid-Victorian period is gone, as far as our education is concerned. This day is calling for women who will accept responsibilities for children, for life, for all compelling situations, and who will met the difficulties squarely, impersonally, and without excuse. The summer camp with an intelligent program will help the growing girl to secure this attitude. It will conduct its program and schedule its activities with these essential educative elements in mind; it will seek for her self-reliance, courage, and personal power. At no point does this mean the neglect of health or a loss of happiness. Now, the whole girl is considered, spirit as well as flesh. Physical health, alone, gives way to “Mens sana in corpore sano,” and the happiness of ease and softness is forgotten in the joy of living Pierre de Coubertin’s famous paraphrase, “Mens fervida in corpore lacertoso.”

problems of PHYSICAL EDUCATION*.

By DAVID SNEDDEN, New York

1.	Introduction.

1.	You will readily agree that the contemporary movement for universal physical education, is, like the similar movement for universal vocational education, largely the product of aspirations that, originating in the last quarter of the nineteenth century, culminated in the first decade of the twentieth century in scores of programs for human conservation and heightened efficiency. There have been, indeed, many occasions in history when certain social classes and even entire nations placed a high premium on physical efficiency, and promoted it in endlessly varied ways. But almost invariably those aspirations sprang from the necessities imposed by the vocations of hunting and war—the two vocations of man which most visibly demand that certain forms pf physical competency shall be carried to extraordinary lengths. It has remained for our more democratic, humane, and scientific age to conceive the large objectives of physical education in terms of the well-being of all the people.

2.	The greatest asset in the present movement for physical education is a fairly widespread and profound popular faith in its possibilities. That this faith sometimes falls short of approving proposed means and methods is probably often due to the very experimental and even doubtful character of those means and methods. For, like all other new enterprises in social improvement, the current

*Nottt of an address given before the American Physical Education Association, April 9, 1920, at its meeting in Near York.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
161

movement has had, not only its wise pioneers, inventors and even martyrs, but also itu full share of faddists, fapatjc$ and exploiters. Some of its ipost influential leaders have come from other fields of work—army, finest camp, gymnasium, school and physician’s office—and have therefore never been able fully to appreciate all phases of the many-sided problems involved.

Nevertheless, due partly to their own efforts, and partly to the logic of events, opportunities of many sorts have come to them, and heavy responsibilities are now falling on their shoulders. Individual schools everywhere are promoting some forms of physical education. State legislatures are being induced to make physical training mandatory in all schools. The proposed law now before Congress providing a national department of education carries a large appropriation for physical education. No educator of modern outlook dare now confess himself indifferent either to physical or to vocational education, although he still stands helpless, often, in face of the administrative difficulties involved in devising working programs and methods.

3.	It is, indeed, in face of current demands for valid specific objectives that the current movement for physical education exhibits its greatest unpreparedness and confusion. Its general aspirations are worthy and splendid beyond criticism; but its specific aims, its rival practises, and its principles of method seem to consist as yet largely of faiths, beliefs and hobbies, if indeed they are not in some cases actually superstitions.

The tendency in education is now everywhere toward the scientific—that is, towards the substitution of knowledge for belief, of tested means and methods for traditions and customs. The sociological spirit now summons forth numberless contemporary studies of educational aims, as the spirit of psychology guides similar inquiries as to methods of teaching. Old practises no less than new proposals are being summoned to the bar where relative educational values are examined. The first fundamental inquiry is this: what valuable ends—valuable to the individual, or valuable to society—are expected to be achieved by the procedure in question? 1116 second: is it in evidence that such valuable results have been, or actually cun he, achieved, and for what numbers, and in what degrees? The third: have we evidence that such expected ends or results of alleged value are relatively more valuable —again to the individual or to society, as the case may be—than others that could be achieved with the same time and resources?

4.	Obviously tfce tiipe is ripe for all educators and laymen to go deeply into a variety of questions of relative values in physical education. We have reached the climax of a considerable era of propaganda. 'J'he necessities of the war made it easily possible to capitalize popular fears, credulities and faiths. Some reckless generalizations Jiave had V®ry widespread currency. In characteristically democratic fashion we are even now starting various half-oriented enterprises, like ships despatched without sailing orders. In large measure we have allowed enthusiasts and special pleaders

Digitized by
162

to determine programs, regardless of other educational ends that must be served.

5. No well-informed person doubts that, to measure up to the demands of the new social economy, we, as a people, need extensive developments of various forms of physical education. The writer has elsewhere formulated his opinions as to the desirable scope of physical education and as to the relations of this to other forms of education.**

But the times require much more specific consideration of objectives and means as bases for the constructive proposals now being made. We should first have reasonably reliable answers to many questions like the following:

(a)	Is it probable that the rates of physical defectiveness of any specific kind or of all kinds, are on the increase in the United States? Are they on the increase especially among city peoples? rural peoples? factory workers? blacks?

(b)	Is it probable that the rates of physical defectiveness with us are more extensive or more serious than for peoples affected by corresponding climate, nurture and laboring conditions in other countries?

(c)	Is it a fact that the draft showed unexpected or unanticipated widespread physical deterioration among the American people?

(d)	Is it a fact that a large amount of the physical defectiveness found could have been prevented by right physical training?

(e)	Is it correct to assume, as a large part of the country ready does now assume, that failure to meet the army standards at any time is in itself proof of the physical “unfitness” of the individual for purposes of life in general?

(f)	Is it probable that the fifty or sixty per cent of the drafted men who were found physically fit for army purposes would have been substantially more fit if in youth they had been subjected to obligatory schemes of general physical training similar to those now being promoted in various states?

(g)	Is it in evidence that these obligatory schemes thus far give at all adequate consideration to the necessity of closely correlating school physical training with the various forms of physical development made possible by the environment, or to the necessity of sharply discriminating individual or group needs where specific training is involved?

(h)	Or, more comprehensively, do we yet possess evidence that physical training and definitely promoted sports are generally essential to supplement or to promote natural processes of normal physical development? Do we yet possess, in fact, adequate standards of what that normal development should be in adult life, apart from the special standards imposed by vocation and differentiated living conditions. Is it in evidence that calisthenics, general pro-

**See especially, Dutton & Snedden, “Administration of Public Education in the United States” (Ch. 23); and Snedden, “Problems of Secondary Education” (Ch. 24.)

Digitized by v^.ooQle
168

grams of gymnastics,!’and] the like are probably valuable means? Is it.expected that these prescribed programs should be the same for the country as for city children, for those who work physically; as well as for those who do not?

,(i} What should be the specific objectives of physical training given in youth or adult life towards the requirements of specific vocations* including those of military defence?

(j)	Do the conditions of modern life, apart from vocational pursuits, impose certain needs of physical training supplemental to the needs that can be met by developmental physical education? If so, what? Have any of these had recognition as yet?

(k)	In light of the generally admitted desirability of extending, improving and universalizing all those means of physical education which now rest on seemingly valid objectives—including instruction in hygiene, conservation of sanitary surroundings, pror vision of abundant means for play and sports, and medical inspection—is it not probable that educators and others in this field have permitted, where they have not encouraged, such numberless over-elaborations and artificializing of technique and method, especially in the field of competitive sports, that a large part of their concerted effort should now be directed towards mitigating the spirit and tradition of organized competition and of promoting interests in, and comprehensions of simplified and relative inexpensive means?

(l)	Is it not probable that one of the most important as well as inexpensive means of sound physical education, now largely neglected in schools and colleges no less than in certain classes of society, consists of prolonged and varied physical work, especially of kinds that tax the large muscles of the body?

II.	The Meaning of Physical Education.

6.	The student of the actual or potential objectives of physical education as set forth in the current literature of that subject is-handicapped at the outset by the vague and indefinite meanings, of the technical terms now employed. It does not appear that systematic efforts have yet been made to determine and consistently to-use an explicit and unequivocal terminology—a conclusion which unfortunately applies to many departments of education. “Physical culture” as a phrase is happily obsolescent; yet it is almost to be preferred to the much overworked words “physical training.” But the greatest difficulty arises in connection with the use, in this connection, of the word “education” itself. In the processes of making the permanently sound, strong and eduring adult body out of the tender and undeveloped body given by infancy, the largest single need, obviously, is that of insuring conditions for natural, normal growth; but shall we call the processes of providing and adjusting these “growth” conditions “education”? The present writer thinks it best to do so, while at the same time recognizing that it is doubtful whether historical and etymological justification can be found for so extended a use of the term. “Physical development and education” would be more logical but excessively clumsy.

Digitized by t^ooQie
164

7.	For the purposes of this paper, then, the words “physical education” will be used to cover all forms of assisted and controlled development, instruction, training and cure designed to conserve tfte physical health and growth of children towards a maphood and womanhood characterized by healthy, strong and enduring bodies, with whatever of ideals, knowledge and habits is vitajly related thereto. Under the broad head of physical education, therefore, we can now include the following varieties, developed and undeveloped :

(a)	Provision, supervision, control and needed redirection of the conditions of physical nurture, including primarily food, rest, shelter, and bodily protection, as these entail or imply responsibility on home, municipality, schools, medicine, etc.;

(b)	Insurance of facilities, as well as normal incentives, for customary physical play of the simpler types;

(c)	Provision of facilities and incentives for those more complex forms of physical play which we call sports, athletics, swimming, scouting, and the like;

'(d) Provision of the requirements, means and methods of genera! calisthenics and gymnastics;

(e)	Provision of corrective individual calisthenics, gymnastics and pther preventive or curative measures specifically designed to correct defect or strengthen weak organs;

(f)	Provision of specific physical training in preparation either for recognized vocational needs or for recognized needs in the non-vocational life of adults;

(g)	Provision of requirements and means of military training as a contribution primarily towards defensive efficiency, but secona-arily as a means of physical development, and possibly, training;

(h)	Instruction, indealization, and, where practicable, habituation (or training) in specific forms of hygiene and physical activity (pxercise, play, work, recreation) designed to conserve and promote physical well-being especially in anticipation of the conditions of adqlt life;

fi) Insurance of hygienic and sanitary surrounding and conditions for school work as normally required or provided;

(j)	Medical inspection towards the prevention, early detection and cure of physical ailment or defect;

(k)	provision of facilities and incentives for productive physical wqrk as a means to fundamental physical development—an imperfectly recognized department as yet.

Certain divisions of the above list can properly be merged under the cpjpprewnsiye term “physical training.” It is in this area that tpe mpst pressing current problems of purpose are found. Under such diyisrons as physical nurture, instruction in hygiene, h^Jth oversight, conservation of hygienic surroundings, and prq vision qf facilities for informal play we still have abundant problems of yeans apd methods-, but aims are fairly well defined-

The chief general problem in the field of physical educ^tjop properly called “physical training” is that of defining tpe character and standards of realistic objectives which shall be capable

Digitized by v^ooQie
166

of general application&o publicly supported programs. It is evident that in current literature four unlike and more or less mutually opposed classes of objectives are here confused; namely the developmental, the corrective, the recreative and the disciplinary.

The term “physical training” will here be restricted to systematized activities more or less purposively or consciously directed towards: (a) promoting physical development; (b) correcting of specific physical defects; (c) establishing special forms of strength, agility and skill for the vocational (including the military) needs of life; and (d) establishing special forms of interest, skill and other habits and attitudes for the non-vocational, including the recreational, needs of life. “Normal physical development” through the general processes of growth, will be excluded, as well as the social provision of the material means (playgrounds, equipment for physical play, and many other “developmental” agencies) to that end.

III.	Physical Training for Development.

8.	In plant and animal life, given normal conditions of heredity and nurture, normal physical development (structural and functional) takes place “automatically”. For hundreds of thousands of years the children of men have similarly grown or developed to “natural” adult standards. Of the millions of young Americans called up by the draft only a very small proportion had had their physical development assisted by any process that could be called “training”. Under somewhat more hopeful conditions than Topsy, they had nevertheless “jest growed”—the conditions being, of course, fair heredity, more or less adequate nurture, reasonable quantities of play and of drudging work, the variable climate of our states, and finally, the meager knowledge of hygiene and the half adequate medical care practicable in American homes and schools. To physician and educator it is perhaps something of a wonder that they showed up as well as they did. Woods Hutchinson has somewhere written entertainingly about the hardiness of babies—contending, as a matter of fact, that they fall only a little short of being indestructible.

One might in the same vein speak of the “growth tendencies” of the human body as exemplified in American boys—they seem to be practically irresistible, when one thinks of possibilities of error or failure. Nevertheless all experience teaches us that the conditions of civilized life make it hard for the human body, in its major and more primitive organs and functions at least, to reach optimum development. Man has created artificial conditions for himself, just as he has for highly bred cows, cabbages, and apples; and to meet these conditions he has to “assist” nature in developing not only himself but also the other creatures named.

Now it is evident that much of what is currently called "physical training” is expected to provide this assistance. But how lacking in clear formulation are its aims! First, it is inherently probable that the specific objectives of the various desirable forms of “assistance” to development have little in common with those forms of physical training, chiefly of persons well along towards

Digitized by Tooele
166

maturity, designed to strengthen or train for the practical exigencies of working life—military or other. Second, it is very unlikely that these objectives would greatly resemble those that should be set up in connection with the recreations desirable to mature persons of sedentary life.

But of much greater importance is the fact (hardly disputed when considered abstractly) that no artificial substitutes for “natural development” are ever desirable wherever natural conditions can be secured. Even modem medicine relies less and less upon artificial remedies, and increasingly seeks to “give nature a chance.” Obviously, all physical training towards development should be based upon pretty clear understanding of the particular respects in which natural processes are to be artificially stimulated or aided. Can we contend that such understanding now underlies our general programs of calesthenics and gymnastics? Many of the assumptions of current propaganda are singularly loose in this connection. About forty per cent of the drafted men were rejected for physical unfitness; but if I interpret Dr. Fisk* rightly only eight per cent of those drafted showed defects that could have been prevented by physical training and personal hygiene. In other words ninety-two per cent of the men drafted had achieved such degrees of physical development as army needs then required and as was for those standards practicable apart from surgical operation or the artificial aid of glasses and other accessories.

9.	Now to this audience it is not necessary to indicate how unreliable and, for many purposes, irrelevant, are military standards of physical fitness (although I regret to find that several well-known advocates of physical education have been willing to use the figures of the draft as a means of alarmist propaganda). But, by any interpretation, these figures confirm rather than refute the contention that, under conditions involving no artificial training aids to physical development, a large proportion of young Americans now attain to what may properly be called “optimum” standards of size, strength, grace and flexibility of bodily organs. Obviously, of course, we may dispute here endlessly about standards. To the professional athlete nearly all adults appear, naturally, as clumsy half-developed duffers; to the professional soldier none stand or carry themselves properly; and certainly to the “culturist” of the times of Louis the XIV, few indeed would have good enough complexions or the courtier’s grace of movement.

It is probable that far too many of the standards of physical development, as now detailed in books and articles, reflect the aspirations and preconceptions of the professional athlete and gymnast, just as in former centuries they reflected the ideals of soldier, duellist and horseman. These biased origins are responsible for what Professor Burnham calls the “fetich of symmetrical development.” They are responsible for much that common sense indicates to be highly artificial in “setting up” and “limbering” drills and for those endless gymnastics and calisthenic stunts in which.

*American Physical Education Review, 23: 77.

Digitized by Google
167

pupils have been so long trained, the objectives of which seem to nave in view the discovery and exercise of co-ordinations hardly ever called for by the conditions of “natural” activity. (Only the hasty reader needs to be warned that I am here referring neither to those stunts which youth “takes to” naturally in only moderately competitive play, nor to those systematized forms of physical training which the exigencies of known work to be done—including military—entail.)

To the person who thinks chiefly in terms of ideals there is no nature that can not be improved by art; but those who spend public money on education are under obligation to think in terms of the reasonable and practicable rather than idealistically. If we make our standards sufficiently exacting we could very easily prove that not five per cent nor even one per cent of American men between twenty and thirty have satisfactory physical development, as indeed is the case when we seek airmen. But serviceable programs of general education can not be built to the specifications of lofty ideals. The obligation must rest heavily on the proponents of general programs of physical training to show clearly at what ages, under what conditions, and in what respects, the growth processes, resting on heredity and fostered by home, playground and community life, fall short of demonstrated optimum standards after reasonably valid formulations of these standards shall themselves have been agreed upon. And the first condition for such evidence will be a clear-cut differentiation of those other objectives of physical training, namely special correctional exercise, and definite physical habituation towards the ascertained needs of vocational or other specific responsibilities. The second condition will be an evaluation of the developmental results now accruing from various forms of life led by the different sexes at different age levels—urban and rural, rich and poor, those living in cold and those in warm climates, those used to hilly surroundings and those confined to the flatlands, etc. The starting point for the scientific determination and evaluation of the objectives of “specialized” or school education must be the evaluation of the results of non-school agencies, especially those of inexpensive operation.

In fact constructive policies in this field of physical education would seem to lie in the general direction of rendering standards and ideals of natural development so concrete and objective, and of insuring such ample provision of simple and varied means thereto, that the application of means so artificial as properly to be described as “training” can be held as individual, corrective, and for somewhat abnormal cases. The “simple” life, even the primitive life for growing youth—lives of open spontaneous play, hiking, camping, farm work, and the like should be idealized, programed and otherwise encouraged. Plans therefore should be formed for the year—to cover vacations, holidays, late and early hours— rather than the few precious hours ordinarily claimed for day-school mental work.

IV.	Corrective Physical Training.

10.	The need for corrective physical training in individual

Digitized by ooQle
168

cases is evident to all. Defects of structure or function due to heredity, accident, disease, cramping work, or prolonged neglect are to be found in substantial proportions of children and adults. Many of these can not be corrected at all; others can be helped by operations or instrumental adjuncts; while still others like certain kinds of weak hearts, muscular underdevelopment, and inadequate co-ordinations can be corrected by systematic training. We shall not soon forget the achievements of rehabilitation surgery in devising means of restoring function to mangled organs.

But the first condition of efficiency in corrective training is obviously individual adaptation. Is it ever probable that among twenty persons of the same age group chosen at random two will be found to require the same corrective training? Only out of thousands, certainly, would it prove practicable to form even small classes that should have the same sets of drills. The difficulties in the way of developing effective corrective work are many; but in view of the importance of this phase, has the subject received sufficient attention? Clearly it belongs no less in the earlier than in the later grades. Clearly its standards should be those known to accord with the demands of normal life, not those required in competitive athletics or those of even first line military duty. And no less clearly, the only effective means and methods will be those which, proceeding from accurate diagnosis and through detailed prescription, will put the individual as fully as practicable on the high road of self help and by the least elaborate and expensive means practicable.

Here again we must guard against extravagant generalizations. Apart from war and industrial accident, what proportions of our people need corrective training of more than incidental kinds? What proportion of the forty per cent rejected by the draft could have been saved by corrective training begun years before? Perhaps but few of the victims of eye defects and of the victims of wasting disease. What proportion of the flat-footed and the weak of heart could have been brought up to draft standards through early corrective training?

And no less necessary are reasonable standards. The victims of hip disease, of spinal curvature, and of stooping shoulders ought to be trained up to optimum standards according to their possibilities; but these can not be army standards, and perhaps need not be, for practical purposes, as exacting as the specialists assume. In fact should not all good correctional training beyond that of early years have as definite and concrete objectives as did that of the rehabilitation hospitals? It is not at all necessary to assume that all of these objectives will be imposed by vocational requirements. Attractiveness of person, freedom from disfiguring impediment, or functioning for the pleasures of life may well determine many; but they should be clearly defined, and the needs of each individual made clear to him.

Once diagnosis and prescription have been satisfactorily made, the problem remains of insuring sufficient of the tedious practise

Digitized by
169

essential. Here, certainly, our programs yet fall short of proper control. The individual should not be under constant supervision. Surely he should be given a definite prescription and left to prolonged individual self-direction, being held accountable for results. Otherwise cost becomes prohibitive.

The rehabilitation of the wounded has taught us the great importance of securing the local results of corrective training through means that shall to the maximum enlist the inner co-operations of the subject being trained. Hence the importance of discovering economically productive working activities that shall, first, give the corrective results desired, and, doing 60, shall allure the interests of the defective. Here lie large opportunities of research. Assuming specific diagnosis of individual defects in young persons of various age levels, what forms of play, work, and other activities can be so explained and prescribed that the individual can travel far without constant supervision, or, at most, with the inexpensive supervision of home and associates?

V.	Physical Training For Life Work.

11.	Man has so long made hunting and fighting his most exacting vocations that preparation for them has for ages been accomplished largely through the plays that have become instinctive. The use of artificial weapons and regimented organization in war finally made it necessary for successful warriors to supplement natural propensities with highly developed training of specialized kinds. The power of endurance, the degrees of strength, and the varieties of bodily flexibility indispensable to the warrior of to-day, are, for the moment, keenly appreciated even by peoples far from the theaters of modern highly engined war.

Less appreciated because less tangible are the physical requirements of modern vocations of the non-combatant type. War exacts heavy penalties of the physically unprepared, but so, probably does industry also. Coal-mining, cigar-making, bookkeeping, stenography, teaching—do these and kindred vocations exhibit conditions of morbidity and mortality that could be anticipated and prevented by special physical training? Superficially regarded, it would seem so; but have the specialists given us any clear doctrine in the matter? It will doubtless be contended that “good all around” development is, after all, the best preparation for the special forms of endurance and strain required in these vocations; but certainly the evidence is far from adequate. Possibly examination would show that the star football player stands up best against the hardships of coal mining; while the leading basket ball player holds out longest against the wear and tear of primary school teaching. But many instances like these would prove little since we know that the successful participants in voluntary athletics have usually started life with exceptional assets of health, strength and energy.

In all probability there are here unexplored continents awaiting the experts of physical training. Of a thousand boys in a suburban high school it can safely be predicted that seventy-five per cent will enter upon “brain working” rather than manual voca-
170

tions. The prevailing exactions of these vocations can readily be studied. Preparation in bodily powers, more or less specific, can be given during plastic years. What that preparation should be, none of us can now say, of course; but the naive assumptions at present underlying our programs are not only probably wrong, but will long continue to obstruct direct study of the actual problems involved. They are in many cases like the recommendations not infrequently made a few years ago that hard “brain” workers should, for recreation, pursue violent physical exercise.

The diagnosis of social situations will greatly help here. We know, for example, that the large majority of "middle class” girls— the kind that go through high school—will serve for several years in non-manual vocations, after which they will become home-makers. It seems probable that a large proportion of these girls will suffer physically from the exactions of their highly artificial work—teaching, accounting, stenography, salesmanship—and that they will come to the work of wife and mother with a variety of disabilities, partly acquired in their vocations. Now it is probable that the physical training which aims at more than moderate development of the larger muscles or which prepares for the intensive activities of competitive basketball, tennis and swimming will not lay serviceable foundations for the peculiar vocational strains referred to. On the other hand, training that would promote full functioning of tiie heart, lungs, skin, kidneys, and which would encourage motor "poise” might be of utmost service. Prolonged but not arduous physical work with a minimum of competition might be one of the best menas to this end. Certainly even an inexpert observer must look with apprehension on the strenuous basket-ball, swimming, and tennis now encouraged in some quarters, having in mind the already intense social and intellectual stimulation to which these girls are subject.

Very probably much of the specialized training here suggested can only be given after vocational choice shall have been made and vocational training or vocational practise begun. That is the method of physical training for war now favored by nearly all military authorities—since cantonment, camp, and militia training are undertaken after preparation for the combative vocations has been decided upon.

A young man, from eighteen to twenty-two, remains undecided whether to become a dentist or a traveling salesman. Is it practicable during those years to give him specialized training against the strains of his vocation? But let us assume a competent physical educator outlining programs for youths already preparing for service as field salesmen; taking account of the difficult conditions to which they will be subject, what would he recommend as physical means of forearming them?

Of especial importance, probably would be physical training for young specialized workers. Thousands of girls now, at from seventeen to nineteen years of age, become indoor saleswomen, in which capacity they are subject to various strains, of

Digitized by LaOOQle
171

which those falling on feet and back are among the worst. Assume that schools, general or vocational, were in a position to claim substantial amounts of the time of these girls from fourteen years to entry upon work. What would they do to lay foundations of special physical fitness? Could they do as well as the army? Perhaps of no less importance would be the interest and habits they would seek to insure as to recreative activities during days of employment. It is easy enough for the critic to assert dogmatically that these girls should take daily physical exercise; what are the practicable forms, taking account of special conditions of time, city location, overburdened feet, dress, and the like? Obviously we need here for all types of vocations, certain species of sociological and physical diagnosis. Of each vocation we could inquire:

(a)	What are the physical strains it imposes?

(b)	How far can we prevent the most poorly adapted from entering upon it?

(c)	What specific training can we give against these needs?

(d)	What are the recreations that are (1) feasible, and (2) desirable for the workers in this vocation?

(e)	What training can we give that will produce interests and powers for suitable recreations offsetting the strains?

VI.	Physical Training for Non-Vocational Activities.

12.	The demands of modem civilization impose heavy and, in a biological sense, “unnatural” demands upon our bodies not only during our working hours, but also in our other relationships. We seem forced to underwork our jaws and the intestinal tract, and probably to overwork lungs and kidneys by the conditions of our lives. Men and women in large numbers in our cities not only work, but sleep and pass their leisure under dry tropical heat, even in our northern winters. Child-bearing becomes highly difficult if not dangerous for the nervously developed woman. Quiet surroundings for rest and sleep are hard to provide. We are incessantly subject to invasions of microbes assembled by our congregate life. Our girls during their premarriage years must carry the double burden of school or of vocational service, and of conserving and enhancing their decorative functions. And beyond it all, old age demands that we assure as far as practicable to all the central happiness of not suffering from ill-health.

Again we are faced by problems of specific aim not unlike those referred to in the last section. Physical training for the ends here suggested must obviously be “special”. It must intelligently seek to give preparation, not for life “in general,” or life as it might have been for rural or manual working peoples, but for the special and decidedly modern needs created by civilization. A few illustrations will help to make this clear.

Ellsworth Huntington is but one of the many scientists whose sociological insight compels them to believe that the conservation of health and physical vigor requires not only considerable exposure to temperatures below those that we naturally “like,” but that

Digitized by v^ooQle
172

the body should be frequently subjected to changes not too extreme in character. But only a stronger sense of need as well as the effects or prolonged habituation in youth can accustom us, emotionally and physically, to welcome these conditions. It is a matter of common observation that half sick men and women are as morbidly sensitive to changes in temperature as are vagrants who have long abstained from bathing sensitive to cool water. We can and do habituate ourselves to cold water; and it would be no less practicable to habituate ourselves to accept with equanimity changes of temperature if such habituation were regarded as essential to maintenance of optimum energy. Given such results of training to carry forward into the artificial conditions of adult life we should be forearmed against many of the deteriorating influences now besetting the middle-aged.

The tragic concomitants of child-bearing, especially among women who have not been manual field workers, are well known. The erect posture of the mother, and the enlarged brain of the child are ancient sources of difficulty. Doubtless civilized society’s addiction to sitting in chairs and carriages adds another obstacle of sinister magnitude. Besides these we have reduction of manual work, especially of the kinds that entail frequent exertion of the trunk muscles and the bending of the hips. Finally comes the era when girls from six to twenty must “work” hard with their brains and only “play” with their muscles. Out of it all have come conditions which make the discharge of the primal functions of motherhood a task of danger and hardship easily comparable to service on the field of battle.

Is it visionary to conceive of the advent in the near future of a system of specialized physical training designed in a measure to offset the handicaps of civilization as respects the physical qualifications for child-bearing? Surely some of those handicaps— underdevelopment of pelvic bones or correlated musculature, oversensitive nerves, and the like—could be anticpiated and counteracted by purposeful training different from, but supplemental to, that which might be taken for “general development.”

Here, too, should be considered certain problems of adult recreation. We can think of physical recreation in a slightly restricted sense as involving “compensatory” functioning of organs not normally exercised or worked by vocational or other necessary activities. In this sense the farmer would usually need little “physical” recreation, but, possibly, much “mental” and “social” recreation would be mostly required by sedentary workers.

Do programs of physical education now adequately provide for the interests and the powers required for successful recreations for adults, and especially in relating them to offset of vocational strains? It can hardly be contended that group games and competitive sports are practicable for employed adults. The writer has recently met college graduates working as traveling salesmen who deplored the fact that their school and college life had given them neither the incentives nor the training to find forms of physical

Digitized by <^.ooQle
173

recreation adapted to the conditions of their life. Do educators expect women, after marriage, or on taking up salesmanship or stenography, to find tennis or basket-ball suitable and available forms of physical recreation? Why should not the school-time of physical education be used in part to cultivate interests in walking, running, hiking, and many others, with companions, or without? The writer knows some persons who can no more take physical recreation without the stimulus of companionship and competition than can some others enjoy a dinner without wine—and who, of course, under ordinary circumstances can get no more satisfaction out of exercise than does the wine drinker under prohibition. It is practicable to give a youth the ideals and the experience of being very good company to himself even while seeking physical recreation.

Here are to be found larger opportunities for “general” physical training than in the prevocational field referred to in the previous section. Men and women are far less “specialized” or differentiated in their non-vocational, than in their vocational, activities. In fact, this general physical training might well be interpreted in fairly close relation to the comprehensive objectives now designated “education for leisure.”

VII.	The Competitive Spirit.

13.	One of nature's favorite means of driving man in work ©r in play, alone or in teams, is through the competitive dispositions or instincts. The instincts of competition are of many kinds and grades, from the sporadic and friendly emulation between friends to the massed combats of wars aimed to destroy hated rivals. In open and in concealed ways the incentives of competition play a very large part in all individual and group life. Sometimes the results are socially wholesome, sometimes socially vicious. Social wisdom now holds that the spirit of competition, like fire and water, like property and sex, is to society a very good servant, but an exceedingly bad master.

Notwithstanding some advances made in recent years, it seems yet a serious problem whether those educators who direct our physical training, or supervise and stimulate the sports of our adolescents, are not the servants rather than the masters of that spirit. The history of intellectual and moral education is suggestive in this connection. Not many years ago endless forms of individual and group rivalry were exploited in order supposedly to inspire sluggish and indifferent youth to effort. Prizes were ceremoniously bestowed on the successful contestants in elaborately promoted competitions. Pupils were ranked in class from “head to foot,” and incessantly urged to win or hold high rank. Grades or marks were held forth as incentives. The success of the strong was invariably accompanied by the intoxicating pleasure of having beaten rivals; whilst the failures of the weak were embittered, as long as sensitiveness remained, by humiliations, often carefully staged in public view.

To-day organized and elaborated competitions have almost

Digitized by v^ooQle
174

wholly disappeared from the field of intellectual education except in schools holding fast to ancient traditions. Several factors are involved in this revolution. The child-study movement brought into relief the not vety obscure fact that while organized appeal to the competitive instincts inspires and exalts the naturally strong, it almost correspondingly depresses and degrades the naturally weak. “To them that hath shall be given; and from them that hath not shall be taken away even that which they have” is a basic principle in natural evolution but it can well be applied in human affairs only where the ends of co-operation are not of superior importance. Then too, it was found that the effect of competition in studies was to render certain kinds of achievement valuable to the learner chiefly for their “distinction-winning” qualities rather than for more fundamental reasons—a weakness that certainly is manifest in much of the physical competition of to-day. Other valid objections can easily be found to the dominance of systematized competitions in school work.

Physical education is manifestly quite different in certain respects from other kinds. For example, physical play, as distinguished from physical work, functions, or seems at present to function, much more extensively in physical education than does intellectual play in general education. Again, group activities seem much less feasible in intellectual, than in physical, education. (The more modern critics of current elementary education would contend that the play spirit and group activities should figure much more fully in the elementary school than has heretofore been the case.)

14.	Nevertheless, in the field of physical training, certain kinds and conditions of competition have long been tolerated, if not encouraged, which hardly ever fail to produce vicious results, if not to the individuals involved, at least to others, and to the standards of right physical competency as well. These vicious results chiefly accrue from the systematized and intensified development of the means and procedures of competition. It is, indeed, certain that a great deal of emulation, rivalry and pride in achievement still persist in ordinary forms of school activity; but so long as they are sporadic, natural, unformalized, and withheld from ceremonious social recognition, they do little harm either in fanning the flames of conceit and excessive effort in the strong or in disheartening and humiliating the weak. Certainly no one could desire to curb the endless minor forms of rivalry and contest that incessantly crop up among children, young or mature, playing wholesomely together.

It is when such emulations lead to the formation of rival supporting groups, to search for star performers, to prolonged preliminary training, to the staging of exhibitions and to contests for prizes and public approval, that the right objectives of physical development and training are not only in danger of being nullified, but, from the social viewpoint, of being themselves corrupted and even made sources of curruption to other forms of education. Cer-

Digitized by CjOOQle
175

tainly no careful student of the remoter and. less tangible consequences of athletics and other organized competitive sports in our higher and lower institutions of learning can doubt the evil consequences when the authorities follow panting behind the chariot of the competitive spirit instead of holding the reins and insisting on orderly and purposeful driving.

The domestication and civilizing of the competitive spirit to the ends of sound and widely diffused physical education is going to prove no easy matter, even when the understanding of those in authority shall have been converted. Sociological and psychological factors, deep-rooted and powerful, are involved. The adolescent and young manhood years from sixteen to twenty-five have for hundreds, if not for thousands, of centuries been those of most active participation in what have been from the standpoint of the history of our race the most essential of all industries—namely, first fighting members of our own species, and second, fighting the dangerous members of other species. Now it was of the essence of these industries that they had to be largely occasional or intermittent and as a consequence the skilled performers had to keep themselves “fit” and prepared, not only by accumulating and storing energy, but also by keeping in constant readiness through the means of vicarious fighting and hunting, and of sports also—which are themselves a kind of friendly fighting.

15.	Certain consequences of this evolution come to us to-day as difficult problems. Many of our young men, and often of highest dynamic potentialities, are not expected to work physically until well along into years of maturity, if at all. Hence their instinctive demands not only for sports of ancestral character, but for still more organized and sustained contests wherein to work off their physical energy and to attain the physical prowess that came to their ancestors from work of the most arduous, even if intermittent, character. If, indeed, these exceptionally well endowed, well nourished, and well reared young men of ours in school and college were eventually going to find their vocations in war or in any other activities physically analogous to war, much might still be said, probably, in favor of the organized competitions which cause those best endowed with muscle, agility, physical courage and ambition to strive toward the peaks of achievement. But as a matter of fact, most of them will become bookkeepers, traveling salesmen, physicians, engineers, laboratory specialists, and merchants. A majority will live in suburban homes, work indoors a large part of the time, and spend a couple of hours daily commuting.

But in spite of their probable futures, they will strive to reproduce for themselves in adolescence the ancestral activities. Nor can educational authorities ignore nature here, any more than elsewhere. Complete suppression of these combative instincts is probably generally unwholesome. But the proper way out is almost certainly not along the roads of specialization, systematization, intensification. Wiser leaders than us would promote endless diversification of physical activities, accompanied by much
17C

sporadic and very temporary emulation. This is largely the case, indeed, now in such pedagogically superior institutions as boy scouting and summer camping. It is due to no accident, but to wisest understanding, that the founders and developers of scouting for boys have resolutely set their faces against organized and “prepared for” competitions. There exist plenty of fleeting rivalries, emulations and ephemeral competitions in scouting; but organization, the search for star performers, the pitting of group against group in formations that must endure for weeks or months, the holding aloft of prizes that, in spite of best intentions to the contrary, must usually go to those favored by nature rather than their own merit—all these mechanisms of wrong kinds of competition are conspicuously absent.

Some of the modern evolutions of organized competition in what can only by courtesy be called physical education in our larger institutions of learning are more than obvious. Contests are at a premium which exhibit the prowess of picked teams or individual stars; prolonged and highly systematized training is assured to the contestants; community interest in physical fitness becomes largely vicarious—“let George do it, since nature gives him ten talents of physical gifts;” costly theaters are erected for*exhibition purposes, to be used a half a dozen or at most a score of times each year.

In fact the strong tendency of organized competitions is towards endless elaboration and refinement of means—a tendency which, of course, like the commercialization of amusements, is utterly antagonistic to popular participations involving simple, and, except for the obstacles of artificially habituated appreciations and tastes, no less effective means.

16.	We are here again in the presence of one of those sociologically obscure but none the less geniune survivals of the ages of militaristic civilization. Where the spirit of organized competition controls, the real concomitants of aristocracy (in the less favorable sense) attend. The later medieval spirit was contemptuous of all culture that was not according to the standards of the leisured and otherwise favored classses. But these classes fostered, naturally, artificial standards, and they delighted in means and methods that were inaccessible to the crowd. The multitude accepted and approved these standards. There was no culture apart from Latin and Greek. There were no manners except those of the court. The only worthy accomplishments were those of the highly placed. The great common people might look up to, long for, and even envy, the possibilities of the elect; but they might not practically aspire to them, or to anything like them.

Similarly the aristocrats of physical play, under the stimulus largely of organized competitions, tend so to refine and elaborate the means that standards are perverted for the multitude, who thereafter become onlookers rather than participants. Baseball still retains democratic characteristics; but the commercialization of that game may yet put it where commercialization has already placed bowling, bicycle racing, horse-racing, boxing, and wrestling.
w

Swimming seems now to be evolving standards of method as well as of means that will destroy its simplicity and render costly its performance. Boys will not now run except on cinder or boarded tracks and with spiked shoes. Rowing is no longer a sport unless carried on in highly specialized boats. In recent years we have seen many games lose their simple aspects and become in effect the possessions of the few; while, correspondingly, we have seen the development of few new and simple games of a character to encourage widespread participation. Tennis, basketball, handball, and football can now be conceived only as practicable with elaborate and costly equipment.

VIII Elaborateness of Means.

17.	Physical training is, in fact, becoming addicted to needlessly extravagant ways. Hence arise some problems that require at least careful examination if it becomes our ambition to make physical training universal and democratic. It is evident that covered gymnasiums, covered swimming pools, showers, running tracks, handball courts, stadiums, and the like are very expensive agencies. To what extent are they necessary? To what extent desirable?

Several causes have contributed to the development of our present standards. First has been the fact that most forms of sport have been evolved by classes that have had leisure and wealth. Naturally they demanded and obtained costly equipment. Our sporting goods houses are eloquent, both of high grade workmanship and of products that only the rich can buy. Allied to this cause has been the dominance of the competitive spirit and the promotion of starring referred to above. If a thousand of us seek vicarious expression in arenas, we naturally desire our champions to possess the last thousandth of advantage that comes from perfect equipment.

To both of the above factors our richer institutions of learning, collegiate and secondary, have commonly lent their support. Their controlling authorities have sought physical soundness; and, as in some other respects, they have sometimes fallen victims to the delusion that elaboration of means assured progress in output of the values sought. Another source, intertangled with the above, has been the desire of educators to lure persons, especially youths, to enter upon valuable activities, by making the means attractive. A good swimming pool, a well-finished tennis court, a running track well staged before bleachers—all these can serve as powerful incitements to the desire, not so much for physical activity in general, as for its more sensational aspects.

Suppose our leaders in physical education were to get together to study the minimum essentials of physical development and training, as these might be provided for thousands of boys from ten to eighteen years old. Let us imagine them as resolutely seeking to multiply facilities and inducements for simple games, to promote numberless incidental opportunities for competitive activities, and to inspire love of general hardiness and of outdoor life. The school

Digitized by <^.ooQle
178

would be made the center of their efforts, but their guidance can well be thought of as extending to late hours of school days, to Saturdays, and even into hot vacation days, at least for such children as do not go away to shore and mountains. For present purposes let us assume that the boys have no outside physical work and that therefore, it is desirable for them to have, during the five school days of each week, from one to two hours of vigorous physical activity, primarily of a “developmental” character, but also calculated, as a secondary purpose, to lay foundations of interest and power for recreational activities suited to adults from thirty to fifty years of age.

18.	Is it essential or even desirable, in view of the expense involved, that covered gymnasiums, covered swimming pools, cinder tracks, and the like be provided for these boys? What are essentials? Given competent leadership and reasonable power to compel all pupils to elect some form of vigorous activity during the available hours, the writer suggests that the only essential means are lockers, dressing space, shoes and suits of minimum elaborateness, and rough towels. The boys come from their desks and warmed rooms, change quickly into their play clothes, and run at once to the open playgrounds, streets, and parks. Given a bit of leadership or preliminary suggestion, there are scores of activities—chasing, climbing, hiding, digging, carrying, skating, snowballing, swimming—that can be undertaken. It can be hoped that somewhere within a mile is a pond, a river, or at least a creek, to which, during the months from April to October those interested can run for a plunge and short swim.

Are we to assume that any weather could or should deter from these activities? Surely rain or snow or sleet should not be allowed to hold back healthy boys, teeming with a suppressed energy, who are ready to give sixty or ninety minutes to intense “big muscle” activity and who are so garbed that the moment they are through they can strip off their wet clothes, rub themselves dry with coarse towels, and reclothe themselves with warm clothing suitable .for sedentary pursuits.

It is surely time for physical educators to study the “simple life.” We build gymnasiums, then we warm them, then we set ourselves the problem of ventilating them, forgetting all the time that the best place for vigorous physical exercise is out under the sky and exposed to the various changes that the days bring. Surely the gymnasium is a nursery of mollycoddles! And what shall we say to the indoor swimming pool, that structure far surpassing the dreams of the luxurious Romans in its tile linings, its nickeled showers, its mechanisms for warming, and pumping and purifying the water? Someone has suggested that the only next possible step would be the “perfuming” of this dainty apparatus!

19.	Surely no one of this audience will mistake my meaning here. There are schools and perhaps colleges that have not outdoor space and for which it is the gymnasium or nothing. There are city schools that can get their pupils to no outdoor swimming

Digitized by v^ooQle
179

places. But my contention is that present practise tends to standardize expensive adjuncts as indispensables in the minds of the young. Rich schools and extravagant cities can afford costly swimming pools; but for the people at large to get the notion that only in similar pools can swimming be taught and enjoyed is little short of calamitous. Of course, where doubt exists as to the hygienic or other qualities of outdoor swimming, we must set research in motion to get facts. For example, few of the thousands of streams or even breach waters of the eastern or southern states can be claimed to be free from all pollution. Is there any evidence that such po-lution ever gives external infection? Does it give internal infection, and under what conditions? Can swimmers—or bathers, at least—be taught not to swallow water? Might it not be well, even, to discourage those forms of swimming—mostly the products of crazes for star records, are they not?—which almost force the intaking of water?

In many other directions we must look for simplicity and the use of available means. Schools located near hillsides should make much of climbing and pursuit games. In northern states snowstorms should be used to the utmost. The boys should, of course, be enlisted to keep their ground and skating places in condition— such work is as valuable physically as the sports themselves.

And above all, these sports should be theaters for the development of “leadership”. “Pupil leaders” should head all squads. Certain forms of regimentation will be essential, but only the colonels, let us say, need be salaried offiers. From corporal to captain voluntary leaders, often changing, should be utilized.

It will be contended that we need the gymnasium for “exhibition” purposes. But is not this, again, the result of unnecessary subjection to artificial means? Exhibitions are interesting luxuries, but surely they are not among the essentials—and in physical education it can well be urged that the place for the best of them is out of doors, and without elaborate seating arrangements.

IX.	The Place of Physical Work.

20.	In popular appreciations and language, work or play are often set over against each other. They seem to correspond, respectively, to the necessities and to the luxuries of life. Apart from certain uncommon situations and incentives in life (exemplified among artists, inventors, enthusiasts, and the thoroughly “work habituated”) it may truthfully be said that men work because they must, and play because they want to! Primitive free man works (and fights) under relatively immediate and concrete stimulus, and hence with little regularity, persistence, or pursuit of remote ends held in imagination. Bondmen work under similar concrete stimulus (of fear) but under conditions which promote regularity and persistent application. Civilized men often work for remote ends, made vivid and controlling by imagination, and with increasing subjection to routine, concentration, and specialization of task. But the youth in civilized society retains towards physical work the attitude of- the free savage or barbarian. He yearns in-

Digitized by CjOOQle
1M

deed for productive activities; but they must not claim his attention and toil otherwise than does his play. The conditions of barbarian life, and of civilized life on its lower economic levels, force parents and masters to draft children for physical toil even during tender years. On higher economic levels we now draft children even as early as the age of six for what can well be called mental work—with all necessary concomitants, such as exclusion of play and other competing stimuli, subjection to routine, concentration of effort, penalties for poor performance, etc.—and, partly because of the requirements of such mental work, and partly because of social prejudice against manual work, we largely exempt such young people from physical work until maturity, if not, indeed permanently.

Hence arise for the educators of to-day certain problems of probably great importance. In view of the biological history of our species is it not probable that reasonable amounts of physical work—as sharply differentiated from physical play—are essential to the adequate physical development of children and youths frpm eight to eighteen years of age? Are there factors in the physical development required for civilized life which can only be contributed by physical work, and which no amount of physical activity, carried on in normal play spirit, can contribute? Is it probable that there are factors in optimum physical development which no amount of activity in the normal play spirit can contribute, but which can be produced either by forced training (as that provided in armies and compulsory gymnastics) or by sports utilizing incentives so powerful that they hold the individual to prolonged effort and to routine? Finally, are there certain factors required in the work and in the non-vocational living of brain working and sedentary adults in modern cities which can only be produced, or at least can best be produced, by physical work in youth?

21.	Here as elsewhere much depends upon definitions. What are the distinctive qualities of physical work, and, of most importance for the moment, what are the qualities which fundamentally distinguish work from play? It ought to be practicable to arrive at satisfactory working formulations by objective analysis of the human activities about us. Play, as stated before, is sought for its own sake, and, normally, it is stopped when immediate desire is satisfied. Work is accepted as a necessity because of ends apart from itself, and is often pursued to difficult and painful lengths because of the compelling force of these other ends sought. Work is, therefore, supposedly productive of utilities, while play is not, in the sense here used. Workers can, obviously, become so habituated to toil, that abstention from it for any considerable length of time becomes painful; hence the real distinctions between work and play can best be studied in youth and adolescence, before prolonged habituation has supervened. At these lower levels play is regarded as pleasurable, and work, after initial stages of participation in the play spirit as painful. It is true that there are idealists who assert that youth would not object to steady productive work, if the spirit of self-activity could properly be enlisted; but these interpretations are probably Utopian. Primitive man.
181

and especially primitive man in the tropics, preserves throughout life the youth’s attitude towards work. Civilized society has so evolved that at appropriate stages it usually brings various kinds of compulsion to bear upon the youth to make him submit himself to work—or to toil or drudgery as it often seems to him.

Now, as contrasted with physical play, physical work presents certain distinctive characteristics. It is commonly more prolonged, more steady, and less intensive than play. It requires constant suppression of certain obvious kinds of impulse rather than responses to their lure. Even to the superficial observer, it is apparent that play and work develop many quite unlike moral qualities.

It is certainly no less probable that, equally, they produce quite unlike physical results, not merely as respects external outcomes in size, strength, and skillful co-ordination of organs, but also as respects less visible, and perhaps no less critical, outcomes in powers of endurance, or resistance to disease, and of wholesome resistance to effects of highly specialized work.

Are there not, therefore, strong inherent probabilities that substantial amounts of physical work, no less than of physical play, are essential to the sound development of the bodies of youths from eight to twenty years of age? Does not our knowledge of the evolution of the race, and especially of the conditions which attended and succeeded the "prolongation of infancy” make it appear extremely unlikely that the youth, especially of the colder regions, is so constituted that without reasonable quantities of toil involving the large muscles and necessitating prolonged concentration on routine tasks, he can never achieve either full normal development (in the more obscure sense) of body nor of the related "social” or moral characteristics? Educators tend increasingly to emphasize the "social” values of play, especially that involving the co-operations of sports. But may it not be that the moral disciplines of physical work are at least of equal importance?

22.	We can not afford to lose sight of the fact that the large majority of Americans who have made this nation were country reared, and that, therefore, even the leaders (except in slave-holding times and places) accepted their full shares of physical toil from early childhood. Only within recent years have we become so prosperous that considerable proportions of our boys, and even larger proportions of our girls, are enabled to grow to maturity under regimes involving much mental work and much physical play, but almost no realistic work such as farmers, miners, sailors, lumbermen, railway workers, housewives and burden bearers must perform.

To the writer it seems very probable that a wiser generation some decades hence will look back with amazement on such institutions as our summer camps where adolescent youth with almost superabundant energy is permitted and expected to spend sixty or ninety summer days in endless varieties of play at a time when what they most need (probably) for the final shaping of body and character is a daily meed of the physical toil which enlarges and

Digitized by
182

hardens many large muscles and promotes the steady, measured action, against persistent resistance, of heart and lungs and stomach, and thus lays best foundations for prolonged bodily well-being. The products of our schools, colleges and summer camps are good to look upon; but there is no satisfactory evidence yet that, considering their exceptional heredity and nurture, our athletic girls will become either good mothers or good workers, or that their brothers will outlast the strains of middle-age work better than their colleagues who worked early and long on farm, in fisheries, in mines or in lumber camps.

It can readily be conceded that even if educators reached affirmative conclusions as to the importance of physical work in bodily development, the administrative difficulties of carrying their views into effect would be great. But of course, the important work for the present is to discover the facts. Means and methods of realizing new aims can and will be evolved, once clear cut objectives are determined and given documentary form. First let us find what are the problems involved; then undertake their solution.

X.	Social By-Products.

23.	In several forms of physical education, and especially in carefully organized and supervised sports, highly developed forms of co-operation are obviously necessary. “Team play" when put to prolonged test, as in the case of prepared and staged competitions, not only necessitates the utmost co-ordination of effort, but also, in decisive contests, a large amount of self-restraint to overcome destructive manifestations of the combative instincts.

In view of the historic weaknesses of educational psychology, it has been natural for superficial observers and ex parte advocates to attach great importance to games in general as means of “socialization." In these, it is said, we learn “co-operation," “fair play," “team work," “the ability to take punishment,” “to abide by the rules of the game.” Wellington might well have said “the battle of Waterloo was won on the playing fields of Eton” since that saying summarized an article of faith in the creed of the upper class Englishman of the period. It is sometimes said that the Latin can not peacefully accept the result of an election because he has never learned to abide by the decision of an umpire.

Now most of our easy generalizing as to the social, civic and moral values of sports will hardly stand the test of modern psychology. Much of our popular reasoning here is manifestly grounded on the fallacy of “post hoc ergo propter hoc.” Certain co-operative as well as individualistic instincts do obviously get constant expression and development in play and sports at all ages! and if the necessities of “large group” activities involve large scale competitions, elaborate procedures must naturally be developed to prevent open warfare.

But it would be rash to assume that the “fair play” or “good sportsmanship,” appearing or enforced in sports, “spreads” or “transfers” easily to similarly named qualities in business war, or government. The educator will be on safe ground only when

Digitized by t^ooQle
183

he holds these desirable ends in adult life as "possible” or “hoped for” by-products of activities not designed primarily to produce these in youth.

The average man—and the average educator—is usually so easily the victim of general terms here that the leaders should seek always to deal with concrete interpretations of objectives. For practical purposes it would be best to assume that there is no such thing in general as “co-operation” but that there are numberless specific varieties of co-operation, some of which are as unlike and remote from each other as black is from white. The person who says, in general language, that “co-operation” or “fair play” or “courage” or the like can be taught should be regarded as uttering educational mysticisms. What observation of the world of realities readily shows is that many varieties of these qualities are so nearly instinctive that we can hardly prevent their manifestation if we try; while others can be taught, in some cases easily, and in some cases only with great difficulty.

It will serve no useful purpose for the supporters of physical education to urge as primary, or even as important secondary, objectives of social, civic or moral education. Educators have large tasks before them in discovering specific objectives and in devising means and methods of achieving the various forms of social education required for our complex adult life. Some important, even if incidental, contributions to these socializing processes may be expected from various varieties of cultural, physical, and vocational education; but in each of these fields their own proper objectives must control. Social education must find its own essential means and methods.

X. Conclusions.

24.	The movement for a comprehensive and democratic system of physical education throughout the states has now obtained substantial momentum, thanks to our improving sense of social economy and our increasing wealth. During the next ten years physical educators will probably be distinguishable into three classes:	(a) the routinists, engaged in executing more or less

formalized programs in specialized departments of work; (b) a small and diminishing number of able partisans, bent chiefly on promoting their hobbies; and (c) an increasing number of able and open-minded leaders capable of seeing the problems of physical education in relation to many other problems, not only medical, but psychological, as well. It is the conviction of the present writer that the group last named will be increasingly guided by such considerations as these:

1.	In trying to determine the needs of American society for better physical education, they will develop and apply as scientifically as practicable, “group case” social diagnoses of the adult members at present found in that society. Here are found respectively men and women, black and white, native stock and immigrant, “work reared” and “leisure reared,” rural and urban, manual workers and brain workers, fertile and sterile, etc.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
184

In each of the social groupings that may thus be distinguished will be found also some who, by properly analyzed standards of physical competency, should be rated poor, some inferior, some superior, and some excellent. All of these adults, as well as the cases of premature loss by death, are of course the products physically of causative factors more or less distinguishable, including the hereditary, the nurtural and other developmental, and the educational in a limited sense.

Diagnosis of these adult groups, and critical evaluation of the factors which have made them what they are is certainly the sound sociological approach to discovery of practicable procedures for schools. The beginnings of this method are found in our studies of the facts of physical well-being shown by the draft. But these studies seem thus far to have been used chiefly for purposes of hasty and emotional propaganda. This propaganda has avoided comparative figures; it has indulged in alarmist generalizations about fractions whose numerators only were given — the denominators often remaining in the x, y, z class. Like similar propaganda based upon defects discovered in school children, it has had effects upon some sober-minded people similar to those of old-time patent medicine propaganda.

Generalizations have been too sweeping—and too pessimistic for easy credence. Inferences have been permitted to the effect that we have been going backward, degenerating. Positive achievements of the last half century have been ignored or belittled. In a democracy this kind of propaganda has its place, but the leaders at least must not be deceived by it.

2.	Having diagnosed social needs, and, on the basis of such diagnosis, ascertained various types of practicable residual responsibilities for school education, either of customary or of new types, the stage next in order of importance is to develop, in the light of these diagnosed needs, the simplest and most effective means of meeting them.

The fundamental first step to this end is, clearly, that of promoting effectiveness of “natural,” as opposed to “artificial,” means whatever practicable, especially in fields of “developmental” as contrasted with “projected” objectives (projective objectives are those based on known and defined qualities to be achieved in adult life). Here it is of the utmost importance that we should “give nature all possible chance,” and restrict to the utmost our grandmotherly fussy interference through prescriptions, excessive supervision, and standard apparatus.

The next fundamental step is away from regimentation, except in cases of a few objectives like instruction in hygiene. Neither for development ends nor for purposes of corrective training are “class” and “mass” procedures probably desirable. They constantly result in routine, formalism, apathy, distaste. One views with apprehension state programs of calisthenic drills worked out to nicety of detail. We must beware of comprehensive programs of either developmental or projective physical education. Differentiate

Digitized by v^ooQle
1«5

to the utmost as between country and city, “west side residence,” and “congested tenement districts,” children with favoring home environment and those from adverse surroundings. In no other field of education are we going to be so tempted to take over functions that normally and properly belong elsewhere.

3.	Many of the more specific problems suggested throughout the foregoing pages even now require broader and deeper analysis and formulation of working hypotheses than are now available. Taboos against physical work; the probable folly, biologically, of athletics and semi-masculine sports for girls; the relative futility of indoor exercises, except of a very specifically corrective nature; the physical effects of prolonged intellectual work on girls; the types of physical recreation most practicable and desirable for adult workers of various occupational conditions—these are but a few of the many that will yet be given concrete formulation.

4.	Back of all this, we greatly need study of the conditions created by civilized life which impose difficult burdens upon our physical bodies as given by heredity. In a general way we suspect heavy burdens are laid upon these bodies by such artificial conditions as: upright posture, concentrated foods, heavy clothing, indoor living, routine work, mental work, postponed marriage, microbic infection from congregate living; and many others. But we have not yet learned to evaluate the conditions thus created and to proceed from such evaluations to develop purposive programs of physical education. That is the largest problem for the future in this field.

RECOMMENDATIONS IN REGARD TO IMPROVEMENT OF THE SCHOOL GROUNDS OF THE HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.

1.	Size of Grounds:

According to the recommendation of the Committee on Minimum essentials of rural schools of the N. E. A., no one-room rural school should be built on less than 3 acres of ground, and this minimum may well be adopted in all sections where such an area of suitable ground can be secured. For the larger schools of five to twelve rooms, from seven to ten acres should be secured in order that there may be room for playgrounds, gardens, and a small school park.

In places where the school ground is adjacent to a good sized village, the ball fields, volley ball, basket ball, baseball and tennis grounds, as well as the school park may well be used by the community as well as by the school.

2.	Need of a Plan:

The present school mounds of the Territory have grown like “Topsy”. From a small beginning of 1-2 acre, they have often increased by successive enlargements to 6 or 7 acres in size, and

•From the report of Dr. Henry S. Curtis to the Supt. of Public Instruction.

Digitized by LjOOQle
186

trees have often been planted along the edges of successive acquisitions of grounds. Beginning with a one-room school, other rooms have been added until there are now from eight to ten rooms. These buildings have been located on a site without any apparent reference to the efficiency of the ground as a whole or to the general architectural effect.

Probably sites of the schools of the Territory of Hawaii have greater scenic advantages than almost any other school sites in the world, as they have, in most cases, a splendid view both of the sea and the mountains; and, in some cases, of beautiful valleys as well. These scenic opportunities, however, have not been emphasized in the laying out of the grounds or in the location of the buildings, and, frequently a building or row of trees have been run across a view which could scarcely be equalled anywhere else in the world.

The trees which have been planted have, in general, been poorly selected and poorly arranged, and have ofttimes been planted where they obscured a splendid view or prevented play. The gardens often occupy the sites that should be devoted to play and the grounds have never been leveled or terraced so as to give a good appearance or to make them efficient for play purposes.

Before any site is built on, a careful plot of the ground should be prepared, showing the location of the buildings, the gardens, play fields and the trees. The trees should be selected and planted in accordance with a plan prepared by the Department of Education, for, as now planted, they are poorly selected, poorly placed and, in general, are too close together.

Such a plan should be prepared before any new school building is erected or old building enlarged, and before the old and scattered buildings are replaced by concrete modem buildings.

3.	Grading:

. All regular baseball and football fields are leveled, as are also all athletic fields of colleges and universities, but, almost the only grounds on the Islands that I have seen that have been put in condition for play are those of certain private schools. However, there is no possibility of having satisfactory games of baseball, football, basket ball, volley ball or tennis on grounds that are full of holes, with projecting stones or steep inclines. Before most of the school grounds can be at all satisfactory for play, they must be leveled either to a single level or in terraces.

The plantations have the equipment and the men for grading school grounds inexpensively and quickly. Especially in cases where the ground is to be used by the community as well as the children, and perhaps, in all cases, they may be interested either in doing this or in helping. In some cases, they have already offered to do this. Recreation is one of the large items in the welfare plan which is now being inaugurated by the planters, and they should always be interviewed on this subject.

4.	Grass:

‘ The Islands are fortunate in that they have at least two kinds

Digitized by v^ooQle
187

of grass which will stand a large amount of wear and use without being destroyed. These are the “Manienie” or Bermuda grass and the Buffalo grass. One of these should be grown on all school grounds so far as possible.

With larger school grounds, however, there will inevitably be a problem arising from the growth of grass and weeds upon the grounds. There are two possible methods of dealing with this problem: one, by having machine lawn-mowers or mowing machines, which might be kept in use constantly by being taken from school ground to school ground on each Island; a second method is by pasturage.

Nearly all the lawns in Central Park are lawn-mowed by sheep. The sheep always add an item of interest to the landscape and do the mowing almost as effectively as the machine. The same is true on the larger grounds of some of our very wealthy citizens. Sheep on school grounds would be of great interest to the children and the increase might be a source of considerable profit. It would require separate fencing of gardens but would be worth trying. In the summer, these sheep might be herded from ground to ground under a special shepherd.

In some cases teachers might wish to keep a riding horse on the grounds, which would help to keep down the grass also.

5.	Stones:

In the grounds of many of the rural schools, there are stones projecting above the surface. Ofttimes, a workman with a pick and crowbar and sledge could improve a school ground 25% in a single day by removing these stones. This should be done at once.

6.	Trees:

In planting trees, there are two fundamental questions:

First. Their selection; and

Second. Their location.

Not all trees are equally suitable for use on school grounds, nor are trees which are beautiful in themselves always well suited to be used with certain other trees. An expert landscape architect should be asked to prepare half a dozen or more different plans, showing a good selection and arrangement of trees.

It is a general principle of landscape architecture that the front of a building should be left open and that no trees should be planted across a beautiful view. Certainly, if trees are planted in such locations, some variety of palms should be used so that the view may be seen.

In general, trees should be planted around the edge of school playgrounds or along the walks.

Besides these rows of trees, it would be well also to have on each school ground a small park, in which trees are planted so as to make a solid shady area of from a few square rods to perhaps a half acre.

Different trees should be planted at different distances from

Digitized by CjOOQle
138

each other. The rule recommended by the Government Forester for shade trees in the United States is that they should be 40 feet apart. Most trees on the grounds of the schools of the Territory have been planted too close together and should be thinned out immediately, and the ones in play areas should be removed.

7.	Hedges:

Some sort of a flowering hedge, reinforced by a low wire fence, would add very much to the beauty of most of the school grounds and, in many cases, such a hedge and fence is almost absolutely necessary to keep balls and other pieces of apparatus from going down into ravines and other places where they are difficult to find.

Rebuilding Broken Arches.—A plan of treatment to rebuild the broken arch, while the feet are in daily use during the process of rebuilding, is reported by C. Cross, San Francisco. The plan consists of a system of exercises on specially designed exercising appliances, massage, manipulation, mechanical force, static and dynamic force, support, and then gradual removal of the support. In rebuilding broken arches, the aim of this system of treatment is to reconstruct the arch and to strengthen the foot that it will stand ordinary usage, without the aid of an arch support. Cross emphasizes that arch supports, at best, are but splints and should be used only as such. Constantly wearing any kind of a rigid splint weakens the muscles because free action is restricted. This is especially true when metal splints, in the form of arch supports, are worn under the feet, and the general results from their use is a degree of atrophy of some muscles and weakening of others. The process of rebuilding broken arches by this system aims to follow the same lines followed by engineers to replace a bridge span, or a house foundation, that is out of alignment. A careful drawing is made of the foot and this is surveyed to determine the degree of distortion or displacement. Then begins a system whereby the broken arch is blocked up or strapped up by degrees, as rapidly as possible with comfort, until normal function is restored. Clumsy and freak shoes are not a part of this system of treatment. Any shoe the patient selects which is long enough and wide enough can be worn.—

Occupational Diseases.—In a monograph on the occupational factor in tuberculosis, Dr. G. M. Kober states that diseases of occupation are everywhere assuming more and more importance, not only to wage earners and employers, but also to physicians, who, in order to make an early diagnosis and give the patient the full benefit of treatment, should know the conditions injurious to health under which our fellow men and women live and work. In countries and states where reports of certain occupational dis-

Digitized by CjOOQle
189

eases are compulsory, it is quite possible to secure fairly reliable data as to the number of cases of specific industrial poisoning. Such special investigations are all the more important when it is remembered that even the most complete statistics fail to reveal all the factors which influence the health and longevity of operatives. Great differences are found in the conditions under which the work is performed, some of which are entirely avoidable, while others are not, and it is hardly fair to characterize certain trades as dangerous when experience has shown that no harm results when proper safeguards have been taken. In the consideration of this question, the personal element of the workmen, their habits, mode of life, and their physical fitness cannot be ignored. —Pub. Health Rep., March 26, 1920.

Child Welfare Laws.—On the recommendation of the conference on child welfare held in Albany, New York, last October a bill has been introduced in the state legislature proposing a commission for the codification and unification of the laws relating to the protection of children. The commission will investigate the operation and effect of all laws affecting children, ascertain any overlapping and duplication, and will recommend to the legislature, such remedial legislation as may appear necessary for unification of the laws and concentration of agencies dealing with child welfare.—From Medical News of New York in The Journal A. 4. 17, 1920.

Tobacco Smoking in Pulmonary Tuberculosis.—There is some conflict of opinion about the harmfulness of tobacco smoking in pulmonary tuberculosis, and at least one writer has tried to prove that it is actually beneficial. Most sanatoriums limit the time for smoking to half an hour after meals. Certainly, smoking before meals is definitely harmful in that it satisfies by numbing the appetite at the time when this ought to be keenest. Quite apart from the action of tobacco on the circulation, it is generally acknowledged that it is an irritant to the upper air passages. Many a patient will admit that he has more real sputum (not merely saliva) when he is smoking heavily than when he gives it up. Nevertheless, the psychologic factor is again so strong as to decide policy in this respect; and where men become miserable or restless when they are deprived of their tobacco, it is better to allow it in moderation after meals. Patients with laryngeal tuberculosis should be forbidden the use of tobacco altogether.—James Watt, J. State Med., March, 1920.

Physiological Notes:—Mean height of male 5’ 6 1-2”; of female 5' 2”. Mean weight of male 145 pounds, of female 121 pounds. Amount of food required daily: meat 16 ounces, bread 10 ounces, fat 3 1-2 ounces, water 52 ounces. Amount of blood in the body, from 16 to 18 pounds. Amount of blood cells in a cubic millimeter (1 2-5 cubic inch): red 5,000,000; white 12,500 to

Digitized by i^ooQLe
190

14,286. Function of red cells: carry oxygen from the lungs to the tissues. Frequency of heart’s pulsations: 72 per minute. Velocity of the blood movement in the arteries about 16 indies per second.

Length of time required for the blood to make an entire circuit of the vascular system: about 20 seconds.

Amount of air passing in and out of the lungs at each respiratory act: 20 to 30 cubic inches. Amount of air that can be taken into the lungs on a forced inspiration: 110 cubic inches. Reserve air in lungs after forced expiration: 100 cubic inches.

Amount of residual air always remaining in the lungs: about 100 cubic inches.

Vital capacity of the lungs: 230 cubic inches. Volume of air passing in and out of the lungs in 24 hours: about 400 cubic feet.

Temperature of human body at the suface: 98 6-10 degrees F.

From Alb. P. Brubaker, M. D. Physiology.

The Predisposition to Accidents.—C. Widmere in der Gegenwart, Berlin argues that the inbred experience of countless ages enables us to sidestep injury unconsciously. Only when we focus our consciousness on the reaction to the occurrence is injury liable to result. By practice or by diverting the attention, the consciousness of the act becomes eliminated, and the inbred experience then carries us safely past the danger point. He refers in particular to industrial accidents.

Necessity for Examination of Ear and Nose in Medical Inspection of Schools.—Gezes, according to Journal de ■de Bordeaux, Feb. 25, 1920, 91, No. 4, found in 117 children of the upper school grades at Bordeaux that over 42 per cent had spurs on the nasal septum. Over 36 per cent had coryza with hypertrophy ; 56.4 per cent had chronic otitis media, and 12.8 per cent cicatricial otitis, in addition to the over 34 per cent with enlarged tonsils and the 35.9 per cent with adenoids.

It '	—	■	 —	 .—■■■■	,	||

N OTES AND COMMENT^

n	-...... ..............— —	■ "-II

In the June issue of Mind and Body the game of Pass Football is described on page 148. Through a regretable error the name of the author was omitted. The description of the game was furnished to us by Mr. Julius Strauss of the Morris High School, The Bronx, New York City.

The New York convention of the Am. Physical Education Association was one of the best ever held by the association not only so far a the program was concerned but also by attendance. The many normal schools of physical education in the East were

Digitized by CjOOQle
191

strongly represented. The social features were well planned, the splendid pageant staged in Brooklyn, the get together marching and dancing on the opening night were all features that helped to make this gathering a thoroughly enjoyable one for all participants. We shall publish many of the papers. The one that will create most comment among the profession will undoubtedly be the paper by Dr. David Snedden, of Teachers College, Columbia University. At the convention this paper caused the greatest debates and kept Dr. Snedden busy answering the objections and questions. It appears in full in this issue.

GOODYEAR INDUSTRIAL UNIVERSITY.

RALPH N. SHAFER, Physical Director Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co.

Akron, O.

Goodyear Industrial University, erected by the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, opened May 1st with an enrollment of 5700 and a faculty of 117 instructors. It is now affording extensive opportunity for mental, recreational and physical development for all Goodyearites.

Complete in every essential detail, Goodyear University is a monument that blazes a new path in industrial sociology. Its architecture is ornamental in design, yet utilitarian in purpose. Its appointments thruout are adequate, tho not excessively elabor- ' ate. Its equipment is the most complete that can be obtained. The many uses to which its facilities will be put will cover a vast field of recreational and educational endeavor.

In addition to the facilities provided for the complete utilization of Goodyear Industrial University, the building contains one of the largest auditoriums in the state of Ohio and a gymnasium which in size and completeness of equipment ranks favorably with the greatest indoor collegiate gymnasia in America.

The gymnasium has a floor space of 200 by 100 feet - sufficient to permit the playing of four games of basketball simultaneously. There is seating capacity for over 5000 persons.

On the floor below are locker and shower bath rooms, twelve bowling alleys, and six rifle ranges.

Adjoining the gymnasium is the theater which will accommodate 2000. The auditorium itself is of the acoustic shell style of architecture, the interior being built in megaphonic shape. Instead of the usual “boxes” on either side of the stage, two handsome mural paintings blend with the painting on the asbestos curtain. One picture shows the Bay of Naples with Mt. Vesuvius in the distance, while on the other side is a scene from South America depicting the loading of crude rubber for export.

The orchestra pit is of sufficient size to accommodate comfortably a complement of 36 instruments. The interior design is of the French Renaissance style, the red and green lines of the stage frieze and sidewall ornamentations blending gracefully with the sombre buff mosaic effect of the tiled ceiling.

Digitized by L^OOQle
192

A fireproof projection booth above the balcony will permit the showing not only of the company’s industrial films but of the regular “feature" movie shows as well. Adjoining the auditorium are handsomely arched foyers, rest rooms for ladies and smoking rooms for men—all of the same artistic design of architecture.

The floor of the stage is laid in sections so as to permit instant removal for swimming tanks, ice skating rinks or appurtenances, for other unusual acts.

On the second floor, beside the balcony of the theater, is a large community room for men, library, writing room, billiard and music room. On this floor there is also the Silent Athletic Club room, American Legion room and a dormitory to accommodate about 300 men temporarily.

On the third floor are the headquarters of the Goodyear Industrial Assembly, the Senate and the House of Representatives. In addition to the places of meeting are finely equipped committee and secretaries' rooms. The remainder of the third floor is devoted entirely to womens' recreational activities, including lockers and shower bath rooms, community room and large airy meeting places for classes in domestic science and commercial subjects.

The entire fourth floor is given over to class rooms for Goodyear University. Here the Company’s educational activities will be continued on a greatly increased plan. Twenty-five class rooms are augmented by laboratories on the fifth floor. These are equipped with every kind of apparatus to work out technical points in various courses of study.

On the sixth floor is what is believed to be the last word in industrial cafeterias. A model kitchen contains every up-to-date culinary device which allows preparation of anything from a simple lunch to course banquets for 8000. Goodyear has specialized on cafeterias and this new one sets a mark for completeness.

On the seventh floor is a well equipped moving picture department. Films are used for educational purposes in class rooms to teach students the details of various operations of rubber manufacture. Here also are facilities for developing and screening all pictures to be used in Akron and in Goodyear branches all over the world.

Goodyear Industrial University is the company’s newest and most pretentious achievement for its 35,000 Akron employees and company officials and employees appreciate the exceptional opportunities for their welfare, which rank among the foremost of any industrial organization in the world.

SOURCES OF MOTION PICTURES.

The steady improvement in the quality of photoplay.- finds both a reflection and an index in the increasing proportion of them which are drawn from worthwhile literary or dramatic sources. Each year, the National Board of Review issues a catalog called "A Garden of American Motion Pictures” in which, along with

Digitized by UjOOQle
1M

other data of interest to those wishing information on good films,, is included a statement of the source of each film which is not based upon an original scenario. The latest of these catalogs lists 877 motion pictures including 495 informational and other short subjects which exhibitors regard as program “fillers”. There remain 382 dramatic features which were submitted to the National Board, in advance of release in the theaters, during the last nine months of 1919, and 139 of these had a literary or dramatic derivation. The previous catalog covering a full year showed that 190 out of a total of 585 dramatic features had such a derivation, or 32% of the whole as against 36% according to the latest catalog.

Two of the pictures in the last “Garden” are based on or inspired by poems, namely, “Evangeline” and “Kathleen Mavour-neen.” Eight are adapted from what are considered as unquestionably standard or classic works of literature. The authors include Dickens, Tolstoi, Gertrude Atherton, Thomas Burke, Bret Harte, and 0. Henry. Of the remaining pictures about one-third are based on stage plays, and two-thirds on novels, magazine serials and short stories. Some of these will doubtless in time be classed at least as standard. At any rate, they are by playwrights and reputable writers mostly of present-day fame and the pictures made from them are held by the National Board worthy of appearing in its recommended list.

The Board reports some difficulty in learning whether certain motion pictures are based on books or whether they are based on original scenarios by authors writing directly for the screen who may later turn their motion picture creation into novels. This practice of employing distinguished authors to write direct for the screen is a new and encouraging development in motion picture art. Next year, the National Board may have occasion to issue an additional list - of pictures which constitute the source of the latest popular novels.

The catalog from which this interesting data is drawn is said to be in constant demand by educators, schools, libraries, churches and a great variety of social and civic organizations interested either in themselves providing community entertainments or cooperating with exhibitors in arranging special programs at the regular theaters. It not only indicates the sources of the plots, but gives a word of brief description regarding each picture, its length, star, release date, distributor, and an indication of its suitability for young people. The catalog may be obtained for the nominal sum of twenty-five cents from the National Board of Review, 70 Fifth Avenue, New York City.

THE FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF CORRECT EATING Life Extension Institute, New York, Incorporated.

The human body is very much like an engine. It needs fuel to keep it running. As it has to be built so must it be repaired from time to time, also it must be regulated, hence, weneed A—Fuel food; B—Building or repair food; C—Regulating food.

Digitized by v^ooQle
194

Fuel Foods.

As in the case of an engine, the main requirement is for fuel. Unlike an engine, however, if the human body does not secure sufficient fuel it will literally burn to death, the tissues being drawn upon to supply the fuel. On the other hand, the human engine may easily become overstocked by an excess of fuel. The following list shows the main fuel foods, the great foundation foods of the diet, that supply energy for muscular work. Mental work requires so little extra fuel that it is not necessary to consider it specially. There are three groups of fuel foods. Here they are in the order of their cost per calory, those giving most energy for the money heading the list.

Commeal	1. Starchy Foods.  Rice	Split peas, yellow
Hominy	Macaroni	Dried navy beans
Broken rice	Spaghetti	Bread
Oatmeal	Cornstarch	Potatoes
Flour	Dried lima beans	Bananas
Sugar	2. Sugar.  Candy	Com syrup Most Fruits
Molasses	Dates	
Oleomargarine	3. Fats  Peanut butter	Nutmargarine
Milk	Drippings	Bacon
Lard	Butter	Salt pork
Cream		

About 85% of the fuel for the body should come from these groups, using starchy foods in the largest amount, fats next, and sugars least.

Building and Repair Foods.

These are divided into proteins and mineral salts.

1. Proteins, or “Body Bricks.’' These food elements are found in greatest abundance in lean meat of all sorts (including fish, shell food and fowl), milk, cheese, eggs, peas and beans, lentils and nuts. There is also a fair amount of protein in cereals and bread (about 10%), which are both building and fuel foods. Most foods contain some protein. Those above mentioned are richest in protein and hence are termed “Building” or “Repair Foods.”

The following is a list of the building and repair foods in the order of their cost, those giving most building and repair material for the money heading the list.

Beans (dried white) Commeal

Bread, whole wheat Milk, skimmed Macaroni Milk

Eggs 2d grade Eggs 1st grade

Dried peas Beans, dried lima Bread, Graham Cheese (American) Mutton, Leg Beef, Lean round Halibut

Almonds, shelled

Oatmeal Bread Salt cod Peanuts

Beef, Lean rump Lamb, Leg Porterhouse steak

Digitized by CjOOQle
195

2.	Mineral Salts. These are found in milk, green vegetables, fruit, cereals made from the whole grains, and egg yolks.

Regulating Foods.

1.	Mineral Salts. These minerals which have been mentioned as repair foods, are also regulating foods, and help to keep the body machinery running properly.

2.	Water. Water is an important regulating food. Many people drink too little. Six glasses of water a day is the average requirement—one between meals and one at meals.

3.	Ballast or Bulk. This is furnished by cereals and vegetable fibre, which is found in whole wheat or Graham flour, in bran, leaves and skins of plants, and skins and pulp of fruits. Examples are: Vegetables—Peas, Beans, Lettuce, Watercress, Endive, Parsnips, Carrots, Turnips, Turnip Tops, Celery, Oyster Plant, Cabbage, Brussels Sprouts, Tomatoes, Salsify, Spanish Onions, Spinach, Beet Tops, Kale, Dandelions. Fruit—Apples, (Baked or Raw), Pears, Currants, Raspberries, Cranberries, Prunes, Dates, Figs, Oranges.

4.	Hard Foods. Vigorous use of teeth and jaws is insured by hard foods, such as crusts, hard crackers, toast, Zwieback, fibrous vegetables and fruits, celery and nuts, which are necessary to keep the teeth and gums in a healthy condition.

5.	Accessories or Vitamins. These are minute substances (vitamins and lipoids) present in a very small quantity in a number of foods and apparently necessary to keep the body in health. That is, the absence of these elements seems to lead to poisoning of the body, which results in such disturbances as scurvy, beri-beri, and other so-called “deficiency” diseases. Milk, eggs, whole wheat, corn, oatmeal, potatoes and oranges, skins or hulls or cereals, fresh meat, fresh peas and beans are thought to contain them. It seems necessary to include the leaves of plants (green vegetables) when the seeds (cereals, grain, flour, etc.), are used. Fruit and vegetable acids are regulating. They keep the blood alkaline and prevent constipation. Milk is also necessary to supplement a cereal diet as even liberal quantities of green vegetables cannot wholly take the place of milk.

Summary.

While we know that a man of average weight, of moderate activity, requires from 2,500 to 3,000 calories or heat units, of food daily, it is not necessary to measure the calories, but to watch the soales. If your weight is in equilibrium (see weight chart and weight instructions) you do not have to worry about your calories. It is not at all likely that you need worry about your protein as that is present in sufficient quantity in all but very narrow diets. In fact, you are more likely to get too much protein than too little. If your diet is well diversified and includes a liberal admixture of the regulating foods your diet is safe. That is, weight in equilibrium, protein taking care of itself as a rule, excess avoided by eating meat or high protein food not more than once daily, and regulating elements supplied by milk, vegetables and fruit, and some raw food each day, the needs of the average individual are covered.

Digitized by LjOOQle
196

Food should be thoroughly chewed or insalivated in order to insure good digestion and prevent overeating, especially of protein food. This can easily be attained, not by directing attention to chewing, but by tasting the food thoroughly until it slides naturally down the gullet into the stomach. If attention is given to tasting the food during the first few chews the habit will easily be formed.

While it is not necessary to weigh your food or measure the calories or heat units that it furnishes, it is well to know the varying requirements of different types of individuals as shown in the following table:

Average Daily Food Requirement in Calories.

Grandparent (70 to 80)...........................1,500—1,800

Father...........................................3,000

Mother .........................................2,500

Boy or girl of 13...............................3,000

Boy or girl of 9-11.............................2,500

Boy or girl of 7................................2,100

Boy or girl of 3-4 .............................1,100—1,400

Hard manual labor will increase requirements of father to

4,000	or more calories.

The calory is a unit of heat measurement and represents the amount of heat required to raise one kilogram of water 1 degree Centigrade or 1 lb. of water 4 degrees Fahrenheit.

Mr. Floyd A. Rowe, director of physical education in the Department of Public Instruction, Lansing, Michigan sends out the following circular letter that also should be of interest and value outside of Michigan.

All Teachers of Physical Education,

Your attention. Please

This is the time of the year when teachers begin to write letters in regard to possible vacancies in other locations. You are asked to avoid doing this if possible for the reasons given below.

1.	Superintendents receiving a number of letters of inquiry from teachers of Physical Education very naturally suppose that it is going to be easy to secure such a teacher. In other words they get the idea that the supply is greater than the demand. This idea is very sure to keep salaries down.

2.	No teacher who is teaching for the first year should contemplate moving. It is essential to remain in the first position for at least two years.

3.	Salaries are sure to advance. Better talk matters over with your superintendent regarding next year's salary than to try to get an advance by first securing the offer of another position and then demanding a raise. “You can catch more flies with honey than with vinegar.”

4.	There are not enough GOOD teachers of Physical Education in this state. A Summer course might make you a GOOD teacher rather than an average teacher. The GOOD teachers are getting the GOOD salaries. Think it over.

Digitized by tjOOQle
197

5.	If after considering the above you still feel that you must change your location this office will help you. A list of possible vacancies will be sent you upon request. This list will be confidential and you are asked to consider it as such.

NORTHWESTERN NEW YORK PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION ANNUAL REPORT OF THE SECRETARY

1919—1920.

During the year 1919-1920 we have met eight times, once each month from October to May inclusive. The meetings have been held at the following places: Albany High School, Emma Willard School, Schenectady High School, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy Y. W. C. A., State College for Teachers, and Skidmore School of Arts. The average attendance has been between 60 and 65. Our membership has increased steadily during the year until now we have 120 active members on our list.

At the beginning of the year the secretary sent to each member a questionnaire and thereby secured data on which to base the programs and work of the Association during the year. The programs have been varied and have included instruction and practical demonstration in the following: Military and Gymnasium Tactics; Clogging, Folk Dancing, Aesthetic Dancing, Athletic Dancing; Track Events, Games for the Class Room, Gymnasium and Playground; Swimming, Apparatus Work, and Drills in Formal Work, Response Exercises, Indian Clubs, and Wands. Besides the floor work we have had several Round Table Discussions on such topics as High School Problems, Efficiency Tests, Health Clubs, and How to Play and Coach Basket Ball. The active members of the Association have been very willing to take part in the various programs and are responsible for the success and enthusiasm that have made our meetings both helpful and enjoyable. Besides the instruction given by our own active members, we have been fortunate in having had with us such inspiring persons as Mr. Carl Schrader of Sargent School for Physical Education, Dr. E. H. Arnold of New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics, Mr. Elmer Berry of the Springfield Y. M. C. A. College, Dr. Minna M. Rohn, Health Officer of Bolton Landing, N. Y.» Dr. C. Edward Jones, Superintendent of Schools, Albany N. Y., and Mr. C. N. Messer and Mr. Daniel Chase, both of the New York State Department of Education, and Dr. Keyes, President of Skidmore School of Arts. These people have very generously contributed to our Association by their inspiring addresses and by their instruction in practical work.

In November, when the State Teachers Association met in Albany, our Association acted as hosts to the members of the New York State Hygiene and Physical Educators Association at an informal social in the gymnasium of the Albany High School.

Our Constitution was revised this year and the name of our organization was changed from “Capitol District Branch of the

Digitized by c^ooQle
1M

New York State Hygiene and Physical Educators Association” to "Northeastern New York Physical Education Association.” The revised constitution was mimeographed and sent to all members of the Association.

Our Association has been deeply grieved by the death of two of our former officers. Dr. McComber who was at Union College, and Miss Caroline Johnson who was one of the State Instructors in Physical Education. Both had been active in our Association and had done much to help develop our organization.

At the May meeting the following officers were elected to serve during 1920-1921:

President—Mr. Claude L. Metz.

Vice President—Mrs. 0. B. Bromley.

Secretary—Miss Helen Bennett.

Treasurer—Miss Marion Card.

The association has had a successful year and we feel sure that under the capable leadership of these newly elected officers we can anticipate a future that will contain much that is profitable and pleasant.

Respectfully submitted,

Olive L. Osborne, Secretary.

BOOK REVIEWS.

The Engines of the Human Body by Arthur Keith, M. D. 284 pages, 5 1-2 by 9 inches, with many illustrations. Published by J. B. Lippincott Company, Philadelphia. Price $3.00.

In the chapters of this extremely interesting book Dr. Keith has given the substance of the Christmas Lectures given by him at the Royal Institution of Great Britain in 1916—17. In order to make himself easily understood by the many boys , and girls that largely make up the audiences at these Christmas lectures the author reviewed the workings and construction of the human body from the standpoint of the engineer. The result is a book that will he of great service to all teachers of physiology and hygiene.

Basketball for Women by Dorothy Bocker, M. D. 109 pages,

5	by 8 inches, paper cover. Published by Th06. E. Wilson & Co., New York and Chicago. Price 35 cents.

This guide for the player, coach or official is one of the pamphlets of the Wilson Athletic Library. In this excellent little booklet all phases of the game are taken up one after the other. Then there are articles on signals, planned plays, the duties of officials, etc. The booklet will be of value to all teachers of physical train-i ng as well as to playground teachers, recreation officials, etc.

Mass Physical Training by Joseph E. Raycroft, M. D. 282 pages,

6	1-2 by 9 1-2 inches. Published by the United States Infantry-Association, Union Trust Bldg. Washington, D. C. Price $5.00.

In this profusely illustrated book Dr. Raycroft has gathered all the material that was found useful during the war in putting our

Digitized by UaOOQle
199

soldiers into good physical condition. The types of activity included in the book are 1. Physical Drill, 2. Group Games, 3. Usable types of Personal Combat, 4. Individual Efficiency Events, 5. Mass Athletics and Competitive Games and 6. Bayonet Training.

It will be seen, therefore, that his is a comprehensive plan of physical training that, excepting the bayonet training, can be used in all types of schools.

We understand that the book has been prescribed as the basis for the physical training and instruction of the military services of the United States, it having been approved by the General Staff for the purpose.

The book should be extremely useful to physical training teachers because of its definiteness, and because there is nothing in it that was put there simply to fill space.

Sanity in Sex by William J. Fielding. 333 pages, 5 1-2 by 7 1-2 inches. Published by Dodd, Mead and Company, New York. Price $1.75.

In this book the author has succeeded well in his aim “to remove the vital problems of sex from the morbid darkness of the ages” and to bring them into the light of modem knowledge. In the thirteen chapters of the book the vital phases of the subject have been set forth in a clear and wholesome manner. The book is warmly recommended to parents and teachers.

The High Road to Health by James E. Kelly, M. D. 254 pages 5 1-2 by 7 1-2 inches, illustrated. Published by Dodd, Mead and Company, New York. Price $1.75.

To the four essentials for health, i. e., air, rest, food, and exercises, Dr. Kelly adds two, Water and Perseverance. Without perseverance, he says, the rest are futile.

The book really is a philosophy of healthful living. Physical training teachers will be able to select different exercises than those given in the book, but the side remarks accompanying all suggestions throughout the book are such that the reading of the volume is a real pleasure and an inspiration. The book should be valuable to all teachers, and it should be one that is recommended to all those persons who ought to exercise more.

Old Age, Its Cause and Prevention by Sanford Bennett. 390 pages, 5 1-2 by 8 inches. Published by Dodd, Mead and Company, New York. Price $3.00.

Like the preceding book “The High Road to Health” this volume is written by one who through exercise brought himself from illness back to health. The former book is written by a man who thoroughly understands and explains the physiology and psychology of what he advocates. Mr. Bennett in most cases simply makes a dogmatic statement and allows you to hunt for the reasons. Yet, in spite of its crude Sunday Newspaper presentations, the book may be of value to some people who should exercise rather than take pills.

Digitized by i^ooQLe
YMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUN

FRED FOERTSCH, Pittsburf, P*.

FREE EXERCISES FOR MEN.

By L. ZWARG, Philadelphia.

Music: Emperor March by Von Blon.

Time: Four counts are allowed for each movement. If 2-4 march is used two measures must be allowed for each movement.

Formation: Column of front ranks of fours in open order. The inner files face toward the outer, and the outer files face toward the inner ones. Each two men, facing each other, represent opponents. The members of the outer files are numbered ONE those of the inner files are numbered TWO.

Introduction:	8 counts 2	M.

PART I. Representing Foil Fencing.

a)	Stride left forward, bend both knees slightly,

straighten left arm forward, slightly bent and raise the right arm to a semi-circle over the head (fencing position on guard)-1, Pause--2-4................. 1	M.

b)	Lunge left forward, thrust left arm forward, toward

opponent's chest and lower right arm obliquely backward downward - - 5, pause 6-8................... 1	M.

c) Reverse and return movements 9-16................. 2	M.

d) Repeat a) - c) right, left and right............. 12	M.

PART

a)

b)

Total

16 M.

II.	Representing Sabre Attack.

Lunge left forward and swing left arm obliquely fore-upward, right arm opposite downward -1, pause 2-4	1	M

No. 1 circle right arm upward and forward and strike with both hands toward opponent’s head ; No. 2 kneel right, change arm positions bending right arm in

defense in front of head - 5, - pause--6 - 8..... 1	M.

Reverse and return movements - 9 - 16............ 2	M.

Repeat right, No. 2 executing the attacking movements while No. 1 kneels in defense.............. 4	M.

Repeat a) - d)................................... 8	M.

Total........................................... 16	M.

Interlude:	Total................... 2	M.

PAR T III. Representing Wrestling.

a)	Lunge left forward, swing right arm backward and

with the left hand grasp opponent’s left hand - 1, pause-2-4........................................ 1	M.

b)	No. 1 takes a neck hold on No. 2 with the right hand, while No. 2 kneels right supporting himself with his

Digitized by LjOOQle
201

right hand on the floor and looking up at his oppo-

nent - 5, pause-6-8......................... 1	M.

c)	Reverse and return movements - 9 -16....... 2	M.

d)	Repeat a) - c) in the reverse onjer, i. e. No. 2 attacking while No. 1 kneels....................  4	M.

e)	Repeat a) - d)............................. 8	M.

Total..................................... 16	M.

PART IV. Lever Frontways.

a)	Lunge left forward and grasp opponent’s hands - 1,

pause-2-4.....................................   1	M.

b)	No. 1 raise right leg backward to a lever frontways, while No. 2 assists (This is done slowly, using the full

four counts to complete the movement) - 5 - 8___ 1	M.

c)	Reverse and return movements - 9-16.............. 2M.

d)	Repeat left this time No. 2 executing the lever.	4	M.

e)	Repeat all beginning	right ..................... 8	M.

Total........................................ 16	M.

PART V: Lever Rearways

a)	No. 2 lunge left forward and hold with both hands his

opponent’s left foot to his knee; No. 1 raise the left leg placing the foot on the opponent’s knee and placing both hands on opponent’s shoulders - 1, pause

2-4................................................ 1	M.

b)	No. 1 straighten left knee, raise arms upward and

bend trunk backward to a lever rearways - 5 - 8 ...	1	M.

c)	Reverse and return movements - 9 -16.............. 2	M.

d)	Repeat left in the reverse order No. 2 executing the

lever ............................................. 4	M.

e)	Repeat a)	- d) ................................... 8	M.

Total......................................... 16	M.

PART VI. Handstand.

a)	No. 2 lunge left forward and raise arms forward; No.

1 bend right knee, place left foot backward and place

the hands on the floor--1, pause-2-4........... 1	M.

b)	No. 1 swing the legs upward to a hand stand; No. 2

grasp the ankles of No. 1 in support - 5, pause 6-8...........................................  1	M.

c)	Reverse and return movements - 9 - 16......... 2	U.

d)	Repeat a) - c), in the reverse order No. 2 executing

the hand - stand .............................. 4	M.

e)	Repeat a)-d) right............................ 8	M-

Total.................................... 18	¥•

8LOCK RELAY.

By	HUIffiR, L* Cr<*». V[\ac.

Class rpoip games to a large extent ate aomewbafc limited amf monotonous in their nature. Children tire of games given ire-

Digitized by v^.ooQle
?02

quently, and crave' foria' diversion. %This has been an incentive to plan and construct the" following game which has proved to be practical in every degree.

The game “Block,.Relay” not only gives the required physical exercise, but it develops the, kinesthetic sense, judgment, sight, and self-control.	fv jfc

The children are divided equally and placed on the opposite sides of the room^with their backs to the wall, in front rank formation* fr.fe.ii fc.t-kf .ie j, (.	r	v

There are two pieces of apparatus used (see cut). Each piece is placed at the front of the room in line with the aisle nearest the wall. There are as many blocks on each apparatus as there are children in each rank. At a given signal the leader of each rank, beginning from the rear of the room, runs around the rear seat and down the aisle to the piece of apparatus and transfers one block from one spindle to the other and returns in the same manner that

Digitized by v^.ooQle
203

he came. Not until he returns to his original position, is the next person permitted to run. This is continued until one rank succeeds in transferring all the blocks from one spindle to the other in' the quickest time. , Thus the winner is determined.

There are other possibilities of playing the game; from positions in seats, from flank rank formations in the aisles, and from the rear of the room.

PHILADELPHIA PUBLIC SCHOOLS FIELD DAY, BELMONT PLATEAU, MAY 22, 1920.

FREE EXERCISES AND MARCHING DRILL.

Music: "Father of Victory March,” Ganne. Columbia Record No. 5536.

Introduction—10 measures, 20 counts.

PART I. 32 measures, 64 counts.

A.	a. Face left and raise arms fore upward, 1-2; bend arms,-

placing hands on shoulders, 3-4, straighten arms upward,. 5-6, lower arms, 7-8.

b.	Three marching steps and one closing step forward, 1-4;' face left about in four marching steps in place (2 steps to each 1-4 turn) 5-8.

c.	Repeat a), without facing, 1-8.

d.	Repeat b), 1-8.

B.	a. Raise arms fore upward, 1-2; bend arms placing hands on

shoulders, and bend knees, 3-4; reverse, 5-6, return, 7-8..

b.	Repeat marching, but add the above arm movements (2 counts to each movement), 1-8.

c.	Repeat a) 1-8.

d.	Repeat b) but face front instead of left about, 1-8.

PART II. 32 measures, 64 counts.

A.	a. Raise arms side upward, 1-2, bend arms, placing hands in

rear of neck, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

b.	Four closing steps left sideward, 1-8.

c.	Repeat a), 1-8.

d.	Four closing steps right sideward, 1-8.

B.	a. Jump to a side stride and raise arms side upward, 1-2;.

bend arms, placing hands in rear of neck, 3-4, reverse, 5-6, return 7-8.

b.	Four closing steps left sideward and add above arm movements (2 counts to each movement), 1-8.

c.	Repeat a), 1-8.

d.	Closing steps to the right with arm movements, 1-8.

Introduction—10 measures, 20 counts.

Lunge obliquely left forward, swinging left arm obliquely fore-upward, right arm opposite, 1-8; reverse arm positions by swinging, 0-16; return to standing position and. hold, 17-20.

Digitized by 30Qle
?®4

PART IJI. 32 measqres, 64 coqnt*.

A.	a. Raise arms toe upward and stride left forward, 4-3; lower

arms sideward, 3-4; reverse, 6-6; return, 7-6.

b.	Repeat to the right, 1-6.

c.	Repeat a), 1-6.

d.	Repeat b), 1-8.

B.	a. Raise arms fore upward and lunge left forward, 1-2; bend

trunk fpre downward and swi% vpp side dqowjlyqpd, bands touching floor in line with the toes, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

b.	Same to the right, 1-6.

c.	Repeat a), 1-8.

d.	Repeat b), 1-8.

Interlude—17 measures, 34 counts.

Close ranks sideward through forward marching, 1-4; remain in position, 5-8; full wheel left, 9-24; remain in position, 25-28; open ranks, 29-32; remain in position, 33-34.

PART IV. 32 measures, 64 counts.

A.	a. Raise arms side upward and stride left sideward, 1-2;

turn trunk left and lower arras forward, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

b.	Same to the right, 1-8.

c.	Repeat a), 1-8.

d.	Repeat b), 1-8.

B.	a. Raise arms side upward and lunge left sideward, 1-2;

turn trunk left, bend trunk foredownward, lower arms forward, hands touching floor in line with the toes, 3-4; reverse, 5-6; return, 7-8.

b.	Same to the right, 1-8.

c.	Repeat a), 1-8.

d.	Repeat b), 1-8.

Introduction—10 measures, 20 counts.

Lunge obliquely left forward, arms in oblique position, 1-4; reverse arm positions, 5-8; reverse again, 9-12; return to fundamental standing position and hold, 13-20.

PART V. 16 measures, 32 counts.

Same as PART I B., but face left on count Mq. 1.

PART VI. 16 measures, 82 counts.

Same as PART II B.

Introduction—10 measures, 20 counts.

Lunge obliquely left forward and swing arms in oblique position, 1-4; reverse arms positions and kneel on right (bipe, 5-8; reverse arms positions and rise tq standing position, 9-12, return to fundamental standing position

and hold 13-16.	........

Salute on count 17, lowering arm on count 20.

Digitized by tjOOQle
KICK BALL.

a. S. DE GROAT, Public Schools, Nyack, N. Y.

Kick ball has proven to be very popular with the younger boys and girls of the Public Schools. It has served as an introduction to the National game, the pupils learning mahy of the rules which are used in baseball. The ideas of “beihg forced,” "playing for the home or nearest base,” and “double play” are quickly learned. Third and fourth grade girls have very little interest in baseball because of their inability to throw or bat but are enthusiastic about kickball because all are able to kick, run

*

Digitized by Google
206

and catch the larger ball. The fifth grade girls learn the game of baseball much quicker and understand it better after having played kickball.

Rules and Regulations.

Ball—A soccer or volley ball.

Number of Players—Ten to thirty.

Neutral Zone—Not to be entered until after the ball has -actually been kicked.

Rules of Play—

Kicker—the kicker must stand within the circle when kick* ing the ball.

The ball must be kicked fair and beyond the five-foot line.

All infractions of these rules shall count as fouls; three fouls •counting as an “out”.

Baserunner—The baserunner may go one base only on an infield ball.

He may take one additional base if the ball is thrown to a base and missed by the baseman, or if it is thrown at a runner and fails to hit him.

He may go as far as safe on all fly balls kicked to the outfield.

He must not leave the base until the ball is actually lacked.

An “Out”—A player is “out” when he is hit with the ball. Otherwise the rules are the same as in baseball.

“Side Out”—Same as in baseball or when each side has kicked .around.

A subscriber writes he can furnish the following back numbers of Mind and Body if any one is in need of them: November and December 1899; October, 1902; July to December, 1905; all of 1906; January, February, June, September, October, November, December, 1907; First four months and last four months, 1908; all but June of 1909; all but June and September, 1910; all but June, 1911; January, February, March, June, September, November, December, 1912; January, May, June, September to December, 1913; all of 1914; January, March, April, May, June 1915. How much will you pay for any that you need?

3 Newark Normal School for Physical Education and Hygiene Offers

A TWO YEAR NORMAL COURSE in the Theory and Practice of Physical Education and Hygiene.

Mid-year High School graduates may enter February 1st.

For catalogue and particulars write to

HENRY PANZER, Director 182-186 William Street, Newark, New Jersey

PHYSICAL TRAINING TEACHERS’ BUREAU

or THE

AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION

415-419 E. Michigan St., INDIANAPOLIS, IND.

COMPETENT TEACHER8 OF PHYSICAL TRAINING RECOMMENDED TO SCHOOL OFFICERS AND ASSOCIATIONS FREE OF CHARGE >EUjlHeltoB it rwtrleto* to ereduetos^ol	** Ww—I C4Up

Digitized by v^ooQle