r

Vol. 13.	AUGUST,	1906.	No.	150

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven, Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, Public Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Director, Public Schools, Indianapolis, Ind. DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760—3rd St., Milwaukee. Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wit.

WORK AND PLAY IN EDUCATION.

PRACTICAL ADDRESS BY J. W. CARR, SUPERINTENDENT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF DAYTON.

THE Dayton Vacation School and Playground Association held its annual meeting last February. Despite the cold weather a representative audience was present and much interest displayed in the proceedings.

The first business was the election of the Central Committee. Those holding over from the last term were as follows:	Miss	Grace	A.	Greene,

Miss Anna L. Little, Mrs. Ernst Rauh, Prof. J. W. Carr, Prof. W. E. Day, Rabbi David Lefkowitz, Rev. Chas. G. Reade and Rev. Holmes Whitmore.

Those elected were:	Miss	Sallie	Anderson,	Mr.	Julius	V.	Jones,	Miss

Sarah Pierce, Mr. James Parker.

Mr. W. A. Peter, accompanied by Mr. Earl Ecki, added much to the pleasure of the evening by singing a couple of solos.

The chairman of the meeting and president of the association, the Rev. Holmes Whitmore, spoke briefly of the history of the movement.

In 1902 a small beginning was made at the First District under the supervision of Prof. Tuttle with 150 scholars.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
-162-

In 1903 Miss Alice Glendon had charge of the work with 300 scholars at the Ludlow street school.

In 1904 two schools were opened at Ludlow street and the school on West Fifth street with 500 scholars. More attention was given to playground work and outings.

In 1905 the best work ever done was under the supervision of Miss Grace A. Greene with 1,000 scholars at three schools. Ludlow street in the center, Garfield on the West Side, and Henry street in the East End. Five hundred dollars were raised and 8 per cent of the school children were in the vacation schools.

He spoke of the constant sympathy and help given by the Board of Education and the increased interest shown in the community at large.

Miss Grace *A. Greene, supervisor of the work, described the operations in three schools. Each child had four periods, one of listeniug to some poem, story, travel talk or in singing; one in some kind of handwork; one in nature study, and one in play, free and directed. The latter was under the charge of Dr. E. H. T. Foster, of the Y. M. C. A. The simple apparatus put up in the Playgrounds was a source of great joy to the children. It must be remembered that in such a school as Ludlow street the playground was the only breathing space for at least half the children.

The facts that the apparatus was used five weeks without any damage, that only one policeman instead of two was needed on the beat, that the children provided rules for their own government, showed how much the playgrounds did in character as well as body building.

Miss Greene bore testimony to the splendid volunteer help she received, and spoke of the excursions and outings as very successful.

The rules the children at Ludlow street adopted may be interesting. The}’ are given in their own language:

1.	Never no swearing on these playgrounds.

2.	The biggest boy that’s here is always to see to it that the little fellows has a chance.

3.	Everybody’s to help keep these playgrounds clean.

4.	Every kid’s to go home at 6 o’clock.

Mr. John W. Carr, superintendent of instruction, then spoke as follows:

PLAY AND WORK IN EDUCATION.

There are two factors of education that I wish to emphasize—play and work.

To the old adage, “All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy,” we may add that all work and no play make him an unhealthy boy, an unsocial boy, sometimes an immoral boy and always an unhappy one. We may also add that what is so wholesome and agreeable to Jack is equally so to his sister. Girls should have an opportunity to play as well as boys. Nature has implanted the play instinct in every normal child, and any system of education that fails to utilize this instinct is vitally defective.

THE VALUE OF PLAY.

Play aids in an all-round development—physical, intellectual, social and moral. If used aright, it develops muscle, increases skill, trains

Digitized by CaOOQle
-1G3-

the eye, expands the lungs, enlarges the blood vessels, improves digestion, benefits the health, beautifies the countenance and adds grace and vigor to the body. Seely says, “It is the telescope which lengthens life and extends its vision, and the longer the spirit of play is retained in a man's life, the younger he remains, the brighter his spirit, the happier and more optimistic he is." Every form of mentality is strengthened by judicious play—memory, imagination, judgment, reason. The social value of play cannot easily be over-estimated. No friends are so true and lasting as our playmates. The success of many games depends upon team work. In this way children learn how to subordinate self and others, how to co-operate with their fellows. There is no aristocracy of the playground except the aristocracy of skill, strength and endurance. The playground is the nursery of democracy and the home of good fellowship. Says Stanley Hall, “Play at its best is only a school of ethics. It gives not only strength, but confidence, tends to simplify life and habits, gives energy, decision and promptness to the will, brings consolation and peace of mind in evil day3, is a resource in trouble and brings out individuality.”

By means of play the Persians and Spartans trained their boys to become soldiers. The Greeks used play to develop the body, enrich the mind, foster patriotism and enoble character. For centuries the Olympian games were the only tie that held the warring Greek states together. “Fenelon used the principle of play in securing his remarkable success with the passionate and wilful prince, the young duke of Burgundy.” Froebel regarded play of such prime importance that he made it the cornerstone of the kindergarten. In the past it lias played an important part in every great system of education, and in the future it is destined to play a still greater part.

OPPORTUNITIES OF COUNTRY CHILDREN FOR PLAY.

Most of us older people, who grew up in thef country where the opportunities for wholesome play were so many and the plays so varied, fail to realize the tremendous handicap of the city child iil reference to play. Every school had its ample playground and we always appropriated the adjoining fields and woodlands. We had our running games—“fox” and “horse,” “black man” and “base,” “tag” and “foot racing,” “hide and seek” and “go. sheepy, go.” We had our throwing games—“bull pen” and “sock up,” and “hat ball” and “throwing matches,” and so on. We nlaved “town ball” and “cat” and “leap frog” and “shinny” and “anti over.” We jumped and wrestled and climbed saplings and played “whip cracker” and “lap jacket” and “Injun” and made swings. We snowballed and skated and coasted and had tops and marbles and “whirly gigs” and “sky darts” and bows and arrows, and cross bows, and slings, and “nigger killers” and kites and the like. We played before school in the morning and had recess forenoon and afternoon and a full hour at noon. We frequently played on the way to school and always on the road home.

At home we had the barn and all of God’s out-of-doors in which to play. The boy who has never turned hand springs, sommer-«ets and “teetered” on the hay and played “hide and seek” in the mow

Digitized by
-164-

lias missed much of life. We always took Rover with us when we went for the cows or the horses and usually managed to chase a rabbit, squirrel or chipmunk before we got back. We always carried rocks in our pockets and threw at anything and everything that came along. We hunted, fished, swam, dived, splashed and ducked each other and did many other things that exercised every muscle, trained the eye, developed skill, invigorated the body, gladdened the heart and made life worth living. We worked and studied with zest after such playing and developed physiques and constitutions that have stood the strain of years of prolonged and arduous toil.

THE HANDICAP OF THE CITY CHILD IN REFERENCE TO PLAY.

Now the city child is seriously handicapped in reference to play. He is often handicapped because he does not have a suitable place in which to play. Most cities have been so busy making streets and constructing street railways and purchasing sites and erecting school buildings and looking after the sanitary conditions and preserving public order that they have neglected to provide suitable playgrounds for the children. Children must play or the race will deteriorate. The city frequently prohibits by law the playing of certain games in the streets, and then fails to provide places where they can be played. This is a mistake that will prove costly in the end—costly in health, vigor, power of endurance, initiative, perseverance and morals.

If children are not allowed to play in the streets and there arc no vacant lots or public playgrounds where they can play, the tendency of boys especially is to congregate in alleys and old sheds and abandoned buildings and other out of the way places. They frequently loaf on the corners, loiter on the streets and congregate in cigar stores. Here they all too frequently learn to play games of chance instead of games of skill, acquire a taste for gambling and learn to loaf and smoke and indulge in profanity and vulgarity. In such places and by such means the “gang” is organized, recruited and perpetuated. Now, I shall not attempt to detail the operations of the “gang,” but any policeman will tell you about that.

Another serious handicap of the city child is that he has so much time for play, and so many playmates. The average child, especially of well-to-do city people, has no home duties—no w'ork to do. When school is out each day and on Saturdays and sometimes on Sundays and frequently during the long vacations he has nothing to do but play. Flay, play, play and no suitable place to play. He would be better off if he had only one half of the time he now has for play. He would be better off still if he would have a suitable place for play and proper supervision and direction and protection in his play.

PLAY SHOULD BE SUPERVISED AND DIRECTED.

Much as I would emphasize the importance of play in education, yet not all games and sport's have the same educational value. Play needs supervision and directing almost as much as study. This is particularly true in cities where there are so many pupils to play, such limited areas where children can play, where the opportunities are so many to disturb and annov other people, and where the temptation is

Digitized by

Google
-165-

so great for the bully and the rowdy to tyrannize over and impose upon the weaker and better disposed children. Play should be supervised, not for the purpose of dictation and interference, but for protection and direction. The policeman does not curtail the liberties of the people or hinder their various activities, but he protects persons and property, sees that the laws are obeyed and thereby facilitates the activities of the people.

The wise supervisor or director of the plays of children assists them in choosing the most suitable games, aids them in formulating proper rules for playing them, assists in enforcing the rules, sees to it that the strong do not impose upon and terrorize the weak, banishes all games of chance and every form of gambling from the playground, teaches fairness and honor as well as skill in playing, prohibits cheating, vulgarity and profanity—in short, makes the playground a clean, healthy, wholesome place for children, a place for enjoyment and moral purity. Some day this city, yes, every city, will provide ample playgrounds and will see to it that they are properly supervised.

In order that children may derive the greatest benefit from it, it should be regulated in reference to kind and amount. Some plays are too strenuous for children, while they are well suited for robust ones. Some children over-exert themselves in play. This should be prevented. Then the playground should only be used in day time. Children should he taught to stay at home and go to bed early at night. They need rest as well as exercise. Besides, many a child is contaminated bv playing with the gang at night.

This is indeed a difficult problem—one well worthy of the thought" ful consideration of parents, educators, philanthropists, ministers, editors’ civic organizations and the general public. It cannot be solved in a year or even a decade. It cannot be solved by one agency alone, but will require the united efforts of many agencies. It is primarily a city problem, and different cities will attempt to solve it in different ways. Parents must take an important part, perhaps the most important part in the solution of this problem. Many of us must provide better play facilities for our own children and also for our neighbors’ children, for they will be there, too. We must be willing to put up with more noise, more dirt, more footprints on the stairs and in the parlor, more scratches on the furniture, more plaster on the floor, fewer flowers in the yard and less grass on the lawn. We must not scold Tommy every time he makes a racket, nor have a nervous chill for fear he will break his neck every time he turns a hand spring, slides down the banister or climbs to the roof of the house. We must enter into sympathetic relationship with him and furnish him a place to play. Give him the cellar, the attic, the kitchen, the back yard, if necessary the front yard or any room in the house. Welcome his playmates, take a part in the games, enter into comradeship with the children and put plenty cookies on the lower shelf.

PLAY SHOULD BE REGULATED.

HOW CAN THE PLAY PROBLEM BE SOLVED?
-166-

SCHOOL PLAYGROUNDS.

Every time I visit a graded school in this city I rejoice to see the playgrounds surrounding each school building. It is true that some of these grounds are not very large for the number of children that must use them. But they are better, yes, a thousand times better than no playgrounds at all. The public schools will endeavor to contribute their part to the solution of the play program. Much has already been done and we hope to do still more in the future. We shall study the problem more closely. We hope to organize the plays better, have a greater variety of games, and more apparatus, more gymnasiums. We also hope to devise some plan whereby the children may use the playgrounds under proper supervision during the vacations as well as when the schools are in session. We are relying upon this society for help in the realization of our plans.

But parents and teachers need the co-operation and assistance of the public in general in working out the play problem. There must be larger playgrounds and more of them to meet the constantly increasing needs of the city. Here is a splendid opportnnity, not only for the municipality, but for some rich philanthropist to render a splendid service to society by giving the playgrounds and making ample provision for their maintenance. If each minister of the city would organize a boys* club and spend some part of each week with the boys in healthy, joyous play, and then go camping with them in the summer, they would reach the boy-heart as in no other way. Dr. Wm. Bryan For-bush of New York City, formerly of Boston, is perhaps loved by more boys than any other minister in America. He has won them chiefly by aiding them in their play. Will it be Garland, Whidden, Bunger, Whitmore, Charlie Reade or some other apostle of play and good cheer that will take the initial step in Dayton? The harvest is ready, but the reapers are few. Who will be the first to thrust in the sickle?

WORK AS A FACTOR IN EDUCATION.

The second educational factor that I wish to emphasize is work I hope that I have not emphasized the importance of play to such an extent as seemingly to minimize the importance of work. Work and play are both necessary, yes, essential factors of education. With equal propriety the old proverb might read: “All play and no work makes Jack a dull boy’*—aye, more, a frivolous boy, a useless bov, and frequently a dangerous bov. Play is expended effort for the fun of the the thing. Work is directed effort for some definite purpose. We play in childhood and youth that we may the better work in manhood. The one is the lesser, the other the greater good. Play is the John the Baptist sent to prepare the way for one mightier than he.

One’s work and his attitude towards his work determine largely what he is. The greatest single educational force is work. We pass through school in a few years, but we work throughout a lifetime. We play for our own amusement, we work for those we love. By folly and sin men lost Eden, by labor, sacrifice and love, the God-man redeemed the world. Work satisfies more wants, develops more muscle, adds more joy, banishes more sorrow, inspires more courage than any other

Digitized by

Google
-167-

thing. It produces health, wealth, hope, happiness and I was about to say, leads to salvation, for we are told that faith without works is dead,’’ and again, “I will show you my faith by my works.” In the childhood of the race men crowned the victor of the games; the world now crowns the man who works, and the promise of the crown immortal is to him who “endureth to the end.”	(To	be	concluded.)

VITALITY AND EXERCISE.

By C. M. DOUTHITT.

WE are often told of the harmful effects of too much exercise and the evils of over-development. We hear of many great athletes dieing young and of weakly, sickly* individuals often living to a comparatively advanced age.

Why is this? Why is too much development harmful and more likelv to result in the decrease rather than the increase of one’s Years? I think the answer lies in the fact that VITALITY CANNOT BE MADE. It can be used and it can be conserved but no amount of careful living or regular exercise can manufacture vitality. Vitality is an inheritance given us at birth and the amount is limited. The great athlete who goes to excess in his training or in his dissipation is using up his vitality. The semi-invalid, on the other hand, who rests a great deal and who lives carefully from the hygienic standpoint, is saving his. The athlete has much more to start with but is wasteful of it.

While proper exercise is essential to health and while kept within reasonable bounds will help to keep vitality at its highest—it should not be prescribed for the individual who is already “run down” by over-work or other violations of health laws. What that individual needs is rest—a chance for his vitality to increase. This can be brought about by greatly reducing the amount of food consumed, drinking plenty of pure water, bathing daily in water that is at a comfortable temperature, and getting an abundance of rest and sleep.

After a person has given his system a good rest in this manner it is then time to take up some form of systematic exercise—but carrying it to excess should be avoided.

Again, there is the husky young fellow who aspires to be a San-dow. He is in good health and has a good muscular development, but he is not satisfied. His ambition is to be a celebrated “strong man.” These fellows need restraining. Without explanation in detail they cannot see it any other way than that the larger and more powerful their muscles, the better off they are and the longer they will live.

While hardly too much can be said in favor of regular, systematic exercise as a health promoter we need to guard against thinking of exercise as a “cure-all” and telling everybody who is ailing that he needs exercise. To restore a disordered body to its proper functioning requires energy. Much exercise and the digesting and assimilating of large quantities of food uses up much of the energy that might otherwise be used to restore the body to health. Hence it follows that it is not exercise or “strengthening” food that the sickly man needs. His system needs a change to recuperate its vitality through rest—mentally and bodily.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—168-

THE MOMENTUM OF HEALTH.

By W. H. KINNICUTT, M D.

“There isn’t a thing wrong with me,” he said, “except that I’m getting a little heavy (he meant “fat” but didn’t like to admit it) around the waist;—” and he indicated the line of least resistance between vest and trousers which his increasing adipose was successfully attacking.

The case was a perfectly obvious one ; so we made a voluntary diagnosis, somewhat to the confusion of the visitor, who had mentally outlined his own course of action.

“You are an old college athlete.”

“Yes, handled the weights and played football for four years.” “When you quit college, you also quit exercise.”

“Yes, went into the office and didn’t need it.”

“You still eat as if at the training table.”

“Well, I can digest anything and I always have a good appetite.” “You’ve been about ten years out of exercise.”

“Since leaving school-seven years.”

“What do you wish?”

“You to get me back my shape.”

“Can’t—you’ve seven years’ start of me.”

“But I thought you could reduce me in a couple of months—lots •of athletes do as much.”

“Not with a seven year handicap; you are no longer in your old class; you are fat, short winded, over blooded and fit only for the hall of fame—you may as well realize it.”

It took some time to convince him that henceforth he belonged to the grand stand; but the truth slowly dawned on him that his days of independence were over.

You see a man’s health—or condition or physical power, whatever you wish to call it—runs on the momentum which was developed at the time of stopping exercise—or training or consistent work, or whatever, again, you wish to call that. Rightlv adapted exercise sets up certain definite processes in the system the results of which extend away into the future. The man whose exercise puts his nutritive processes into perfect order will go on digesting and storing for a long time after he stops his constructive work; but this storage will soon become a burden and then, if not utilized physiologically by some form of exercise or hard enough work, will become a positive detriment—will do what potatoes will do in your cellar when they have not been used up.

Bodily tissue must keep making all the time and it must keep using all the time. Yes, of course there must be some storage constantly going on; but this storage fat must also be constantly renewed or it will—well, the overstocked potatoes illustrate.

The significance of all this is in the momentum that each one is establishing. Don’t trv to slide so far that you lose headway.

29111 Bundes-Turnfest, Indianapolis, Ind.

Price, 60 Cents.

Freidenker Publishing Co., c\o Her old Building, Milwaukee, IVis.

Digitized by

Google
-169-

MR. A. G. SPALDING’S ADDRESS BEFORE THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS ATHLETIC LEAGUE OF GREATER NEW YORK,

Tuesday Afternoon, May 22nd, 1906, on the occasion of the Presentation of the Spalding Trophy to Public School No. 46, Manhattan, Winner of the Base Ball Championship of 1905.

Iain delighted to meet so many young American athletes, for I assume you are all athletes or have athletic aspirations. I congratulate the boys of this school, and in fact all the boys of greater New York, in having such a remarkable organization as the Pqblic Schools Athletic League to direct your athletic sports, arrange your competitions, supply suitable grounds and conveniences, all of which would be impossible in a crowded city like New York without the assistance of such an organization.

This Public Schools Athletic League is an original and very unique organization and, because of its scope and magnitude, may properly be considered as one of the most remarkable athletic organizations in the world, for I know of no other athletic association that has a hundred thousand boys and young men under its jurisdiction.

Having been connected with athletic sports in one way or another for over forty years, I am naturally very much interested in all kinds of athletics, but without disparagement to any other sport, I don’t mind admitting to you that my first and last love is the American national game of base ball.

Perhaps you would like to have me tell you something about the early history of base ball, how it became the national sport of this country, its early struggles, how it was extricated from the gambling influences that practically controlled it in the early seventies, and how dissipation and other objectionable features were driven from its ranks, until it stands to-day probably the cleanest sport in the world.

Base ball is of American origin, was born in New York City, and the first base ball ground was located about where Madison Square now stands. Back in 1842 a few of the young business men of New York began to assemble every Saturday alternoon on these grounds to play what they called base ball. In 1845 these same young men organized the original Knickerbocker Base Ball Club of New York, the first baseball club ever organized. This club printed the playing rules in 1845, and it may interest you to know that the present game of base ball could to-day be played under these same rules with a few minor changes, showing that the main underlying principles of the game have not changed from that day to this.

Five years later, in 1850, the Gotham and Empire Clubs of New York were organized, and then began rival match games bet ween clubs. In 1857 a convention of base ball players was held in New York, which resulted in the formation of the first National Association of Amateur Base Ball Players in 1858, with a total membership of about twenty-five clubs, all from New York City or the immediate vicinity.

This national organization gave a great impetus to the game and clubs began forming in other cities.

The game had become well launched when the civil war began in

Digitized by
-170-

1861. The New York base ball players of that period were among the first to respond to President Lincoln’s call for troops, and they took their base baU accoutrements with them, and thus was the game introduced into the army, where it soon became a favorite camp pastime. Every regiment had its base ball team and the monotony of camp life was very much relieved by match games of base ball. In some unaccountable manner the new game found its way over into the Confederate lines and while those two magnificent armies could not agree upon national policies, they could agree upon base ball. At the close of the civil war in 1865 the soldiers of both armies in returning to their homes disseminated base ball throughout the nation, so you can see that base ball has its patriotic side and became the national game of America through the efforts of those battle scarred veterans of the Civil War.

These returning veterans became the base ball instructors to the youths of that period, and I happened to be one of those youths that caught the base ball fever at that time.

Base ball thus produced throughout the country, became a furore, and nearly every city, town and hamlet had its base ball club.

The rivalry between cities became intense and any young man with base ball skill was eagerly sought for by wealthy clubs.

Every possible effort was made at this period to keep the game on a strictly amateur basis, but the demand of the public for a high degree of playing skill, together with the growing tendency to gamble on the results of the games, produced a sort of veiled professionalism which continued in vogue until 1871, when the first Professional Association of Base Ball Players was organized, since which time the game has been governed by the professional element.

The tendency of gambling on the games that had arisen during the previous amateur period blossomed out into full bloom during 1871 to 1875.

Base ball pool rooms sprung up in every large city and were permitted on the base ball grounds, with the result which always happens when the gambling fraternity get possession of any athletic sport, the public interest began to wane, players were accused of throwing games, and at the close of 1875 base ball wag near death’s’door.

As usually happens in this country when a public institution—and base ball is a public institution—becomes so bad and intolerable to the better element of the community, something or somebody invariably appears that can set things right again, and at this crucial period in base ball affairs there arose a man equal to the emergency in the person of the late Wm. A. Hulbert of Chicago, who is frequently referred to as “the man who saved the life of base ball.’'

It was my good fortune to be closely associated with Mr. Hulbert in base ball reconstruction work, and to assist him in preparing the original Constitution of the National League, which was organized in 1876, and has ever since been a very important factor in the government of base ball. Through this* new organization pool rooms were abolished from the grounds, public betting on the game was prohibited, and state legislatures were induced to pass laws prohibiting base ball

Digitized by CjOOQle
-171-

pool rooms in all large cities. Liquor selling on all League grounds was no longer permitted; and everything possible was done to remove all objectionable features from the game.

It was a hard fight, and there were many discouragements, for it was like pulling one’s self by the boot straps out of the mud. In the first year of the National League it became necessary to expel two of its most prominent clubs—New York and Philadelphia—for failing to fulfill its contractual obligations to the League, and there has never been occasion since to expel a club for a similar offense. Two years afterward four prominent players were accused and convicted of throwing games in the interest of themselves and certain gamblers, and they were promptly expelled and never reinstated, and from that day to this not a single player has been convicted of dishonesty.

In 1881, ten of the most prominent League players were expelled for dissipation andj drunkenness, with the result that these vices have practically become a thing of the past among base ball players. These determined and drastic actions of the National League in the early years of its existence has resulted in bringing base ball up to its present high standard of honesty and efficiency, and public sentiment will see to it that those in control of the game in the future must keep this great national sport up to the highest standard. I look upon base ball and kindred sports as one of the greatest educational factors of the times. We live in a strenuous age and our American boys and youths should be educated and developed along lines that will enable them to meet and cope with these conditions.

What can better fit a boy for the rough and tumble business life of to-day than a thorough schooling in athletics properly directed.

As the mental faculties grow and develop, let the physical body grow along with it, in order to make a combination that will be useful, and in our crowed cities how is impossible thus to develop our city boys except through a systematic and properly directed training in athletic sports? An American boy takes to athletic sports and games like a duck to water, but this natural inborn love needs proper direction, and that is what I understand the Public Schools Athletic League has undertaken to do for the boys of Greater New York.

Base ball not only develops the muscles and the whole physical body; but it is of still greater value in developing the mental faculties, for the ball player must be alert, must think quick and act with the thought, for there is no place on the team for the laggard.

It is also a great training for the temper, for a boy soon learns that losing his temper is equivalent to losing the game.

As a moral force nothing excels base ball, and athletic sports generally, for it is a healthy medium through which a boy’s youthful vitality can work off naturally, and after a hard fought game he has become so physically tired out that he has no inclination for anything except a good meal and go to bed.

The game of base ball affords splendid discipline for the mental and moral natures. The intense exitement of the game plays havoc with the emotions, for a player can go to the very heights of glory in victory, down to the very depths of despair in defeat.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-172-

There are no half-way stations, the score is 10 to 4; you win or lose.

After the game the victorious player walks or runs off the field witH a proud step, touching only the high places, or perhaps his admiring friends may carry him off on their shoulders; but.alas, how different is the step of the defeated player, his muscles are wearv and almost refuse to work, his feet weigh a ton, and there is no glad hand or admiring friend to accompany him to the dressing room. He looks crushed and probably feels an unpleasant swelling in his throat. I know the feeling, boys, for I have been there. I know of no remedy for this tired, defeated feeling, but my experience long since taught me that the swelling in the throat could be reduced and the step made lighter bv going, immediately after the game was over, up to the player who had played a similar position on the opposition team, shake him by the hand and congratulate him on his victory, and tell him that he won because his team outplayed yours. Don’t lay it on the umpire—only “muckers” do that—for that is unmanly, unsportsmanlike and invariably untrue.

The victor of toiday may be the vanquished of to-morrow, so if the boy can have a few years of this kind of training he will learn not to be unduly elated in victory nor too much cast down in defeat, all of which tends to that self poise and equilibrium so necessary in the evenly developed boy and man.

This is becoming an athletic age. Americans are becoming famous as the most skillful athletes of the world. While we are here this afternoon our returning victorious athletes from the recent Olvmpian games at Athens are approaching New York harbor with their brows covered with the laural wreaths of victory won at the Stadium in the ancient city of Athens in Greece, the birthplace of athletic sports.

At Washington there sits in the executive chair our first athletic President, whose sportsmanlike qualities, energy and “square deal” brand of integrity is an inspiration to the boys of this Cv>untry.

Because of the athletic spirit that is permeating the boys of our nation, future generations will see more honesty and less hypocrisy in high places; will hear more of square deal and less of graft, for the spirit underlying all athletic sports is fair play, honesty and integrity.

Now for the special object of this occasion: About a year ago the officials of the Pubjic Schools Athletic League, through its worthy secretary, Dr. Gulick, honored me with a request to furnish a suitable trophy to be emblematical of the Base Base Championship, and to be competed for annually by the representative teams of the various public schools of Greater New York. This trophy, while the property of the Public Schools Athletic League, is to be held ir. trust by the team winning it until the following year, when it will again be open for competition. The base ball team from Public School No. 40, Manhattan, won the base ball championschip in 1905 over 103 competitors, an athletic feat which all the boys in this school can be proud of.

It now gives me great pleasure to present this trophy to Public School No. 46, the winner of the base ball championship for 1905. I will ask your principal, Mr. Boylan, to accept this trophy with my congratulations to the winner of 1905, and with the hope that it will
-173-

serve its purpose in assisting in the promotion of clean athletic sports in the public schools of Greater New York. May the best team always win it.

THE LAKE GENEVA SUMMER SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL

TRAINING.

by W. E. DAY.

THE Lake Geneva Summer School of Physical Training had a stronger session and larger attendance than ever before. The school which is held under the auspices of the Institute and Training School of Young Men’s Christian Associations closed July 31. There were in all forty'-two courses of instruction offered under a corps of eighteen teachers. Twenty-four of these courses related entirely to the theory and practice of physical training. There were courses in anatomy, physiology', hygiene, massage, first aid to the injured, physical examinations and prescription of exercises, philosophy of physical training and graded courses in various forms of gymnastics, athletics and aquatics.

Dr. Henry F. Kallenberg, the director, had the assistance of Mr. W. E. Da\% Drs. Monilaw, Kurtz and Foster, and Messrs. Geo. J. Fisher, James S. Ford, Albert J. Coats and G. F. Thompson. Seventy-one physical directors were in attendance, most of these were men holding positions who came to improve their qualifications.

The territory represented is shown by the fact that in the student body' was one man from Frankfort, Maine, one from Pasadena, California, one from old Mexico City, and one from Winnipeg, Manitoba.

A number of special events were run off in the closing days including a gymnastic and athletic exhibition, a round of water sports and medal contests in track and field, in tennis and in golf.

Dr. W. J. Monilaw, of Des Moines, Iowa, was the winner in the golf tournament, playing the final round with a score of 82, the lowest score ever made on the Kish-Wau-Kee-Toc links.

G. A. McMichael, of Atlantic City, Iowa, was the winner of the Stroud Medal in the tennis tournament. The winner of the day in the track and field events was LeRoy Samse, of Bloomington, Indiana, holder of the world’s record in pole vaulting, making a seore of 447 points.

The school, though held at the vacation season, was not infected by the vacation atmosphere. Hard work by both students and faculty was the order of each day.

The gymnasium and athletic field has been refitted this year at a considerable expense. The golf links were in prime condition and the tennis courts had a new surface which permitted fast playing.

In 1905 Lake Geneva had the largest enrollment of men in any summer school of physical training.

The Board of Directors of The Institute and Training School is proposing additional improvements to the plant next year. There is no doubt that students in increasing numbers will be attracted to Lake Geneva as the years come and go.

J3T* ASK FOR A SAMPLE COPY for you or for your friends

Digitized by CjOOQle
GYMNASIUM, UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA.
-175-

MENTAL HEALTH OF SCHOOL CHILDREN.

As the end of the school year approached, the newspapers brought the usual crop of sad stories with regard to children on whose developing mental faculties the pressure of school labor had worked serious havoc.. At the end of May there began to be occasional reports of children disappearing from their homes, running away from school and otherwise making themselves subjects for newspaper comment more than at other seasons of the year. During June the stories of children, especially girls, who were noted as acting queerly as the result of overwork at school, became more frequent. Toward the end of the month there were a few reported suicides. In most of the cases a direct connection between worry over school work, competition (or prices and preparation for examinations could be traced. Of course, we realize that there is likely to be considerable sensational exaggeration in such stories. They make toothsome morsels for the sensational newspapers, but there is no doubt that there is a large germ of truth in most of the stories and that, unfortunately, there is every year during June an increased number of reported developments of mental disturbance in children because of the burden of school work placed on them at this time.

Almost needless to say the children who develop such mental peculiarities and degenerate traits are not the robust either of mind or of body. Especially is it true that in most cases a distinct neurotic family history can be traced. This, of itself, however, should have proved a warning of the necessity for guarding such children against the stress and strain of competitive school work. Unfortunately, little attention is likely to be paid to this. Family physicians, however, usually are aware of the dangers in this matter and should warn parents of the possibilities of morbid results. At this season of the year the medical inspectors of the schools should take special precautions in order to see that any pupil developing even slight mental peculiarities should at once be reported to them. There is serious danger of neglect and delay in this matter. Even with the exercise of all due care it seems not unlikely that in the modern over-strenuosity of education developing brains will still suffer occasional lamentable harm. If even a few children, however, each year can be saved from the more serious manifestations of mental disturbance, enough will have been accomplished to reward amply every effort that has been taken.

It is now while the subject is fresh that the resolutions with regard to prophylactic measure for another year should be taken. There seems no doubt that it will be necessary to instruct the teachers as to the initial symptoms that are displayed in the commoner mental disturbances of children in order that the strain of study may be then at once interrupted. This is a work that in its far-reaching benevolence will appeal to all who are interested in making child life more happy and less amenable to the stresses of modern civilization. No effort can seem too great, no warning exaggerated that concerns school children under such circumstances, since it is evident their future careers and life usefulness are at stake.

Digitized by

Google
A/\lND and body. ^

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

Tum waukM, WUcwln.

Published Monthly.

8ab«cription Price, 91.00 per Year.

W Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wi* Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

UNDER this heading The Journal of the American Medical Association, the official organ of this organization, emphasizes the following warning to its readers:

“ftauaev* of IKnvegulatefe ©»mna*tlr*.c-A system of gymnastic exercises without apparatus was promulgated a few years ago by J. P. Mueller. His latest Book, entitled “My System,” was mentioned recently in “The Journal/’ on page 626. Our German and Swiss exchanges have lately contained several communications from physicians relating serious damage from the use of these exercises by persons predisposed to or already affected with unsuspected organic affections. They warn against this “Mueller-omania,” as they call it, urging the necessity for medical individualization of strenuous exercising for persons past the prime of life or debilitated from any cause. One physician says that he has known several examples of heart disease unmistakingly acquired by this means.”

In one of our recent issues we characterized this man Mueller and his “My System” sufficiently to give pur readers an idea of his methods. We shall send that article to the editor of the Journal of the A. M. A. for the benefit of the members of the association, but are not over-optimistic about results.

In an editorial some time ago we have stated that the physician as a rule is an advocate of gymnastics. He sees the indications, but lacks absolutely sufficient knowledge of this therapeutic agent. So he will continue recommending “Physical Exercise,” leaving it to the patient to choose himself the proper kind and the dosage. Why will this sorry condition continue? Simply, because in ignoring this era of physical therapy nothing is done in the medical colleges to teach students the underlying principles and the therapeutic effects of gymnastic exercises.

It cannot be denied that gymnastic exercise, hygienically and therapeutically considered, is all-important to the welfare of the civilized races. And yet we see nothing done by wav of government regulation in reference to its introduction and practice. Is there any reason why the physical culture practitioner should not be licensed as well as the druggist? The veterinary surgeon, the plumber, the teacher, the engineer, etc., are licensed, but the physical culture quack is allowed to run free and to do as much harm as he is led to through his ignorance. The physician, not knowing the A. B. C. about the subject, is unable to distinguish between the genuine and the counterfeit, and is easily led to become a powerful (although unconscious) accessory to the crime.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

DANGERS OF UNREGULATED GYMNASTICS

Digitized by C.ooQle
-177-

We have many good normal schools of gymnastics in this country r the graduates of which are employed all over the country. These men and women usually have good gymnasium facilities at their disposal and the names of these diploma-holders could be furnished to the ph ysicians of the respective communities with ease.

The time ha? come when in the evolution of the medical college physical therapy and scientific physical training must be considered an indispensible part of the curriculum.— Pf.

CONGRESS OF THE PHYSICAL DIRECTORS OF THE

N. A. G. U.

THE Congress of the Physical Directors of the N. A. G. U. was held in Newark, N.J., on July 6th and 7th, 1906, in the Newark Turner Hall. The Newark Turnverein gave a grand reception to the delegates on the night of July 5. Mr. Geo. Seikel, Director of the Newark Turnverein, welcomed his colleagues by a short address. Mr. Noah Guter, President of the Newark Turnverein, introduced Mayor Doremus of Newark, who extended a greeting in behalf of the city, and took occasion to extol the mission of the Turnvereine. Mr. H. Suder, Superintendent of Physical Training in the Public Schools of Chicago, responded in behalf of his colleagues, and a banquet followed.

The Congress was called to order at 9 a. m. by H. Suder of Chicago, Chairman of the Committee on Physical Training of the N. A. G. U., by a short address. Mr. Wm. Stecher, secretary of the same committee, stated in a few words the most important business before the Congress and read the daily program. After this the election of officers took place and resulted as follows:

Emil Groener of Chicago, President.

Curt Toll of Indianapolis, Vice-President.

Dr. H. Groth of Allegheny, Recording Secretary.

Carl B. Sputh of Indianapolis, Corresponding Secretary.

Sixty-seven directors of'physical training from all over the country * representing turnvereine, public schools, colleges and universities, were present.

The first day was devoted to the revision of rules and regulations governing the gymnastic contests and festivals (Turnfcst Ordnung) of the N. A. G. U.

A cordial greeting was extended to George Heinz, Sr., fencing master at Annapolis and former instructor of the Normal School of the N. A.G.U.

On the second day the meeting was called to order at 9 a. m. President Emil Groener in behalf of the meeting heartily congratulated Messrs. Wm. Stecher and A. E. Kindervater, who on this day celebrated their 25th anniversary as ph ysical directors. The rest of the day was devoted to the reading -and discussing of papers. The general theme was “The Turnverein—Its School and Instructors.”

Mr. G^o. Wittich, Director of the N. A. G. U. Normal School in Milwaukee, read a very interesting paper on “A Practical Arrangement of Classes in Turnvereinen,” which was followed bv a lively discussion.

Digitized by c^ooQle
-178-

This was followed by “Selection of Gymnastic Exercises for the Different Classes/* (a) for boys, by Fritz Krimel of New York, (b) for actives and business men, by Carl Cobelli of Chicago, (c) for girls and women, by Emil Groener. The three foregoing papers were very carefully worked out and were much appreciated by all. George Seikel of Newark read a paper on “Propaganda, Ways and Means for Gymnastic Schools,’* which gave those present many good and new ideas to work by. The next two papers were on “Music and Song,’* (a) “What Musical Education Should Physical Directors Possess?’’ by Richard Pertuch of Philadelphia;

(b)	“Singing and Gymnastics,’* by Henry Suder of Chicago. Last but not least Dr. H. E. Arnold of New Haven read a paper on “Organization of Leader Classes.’* The Congress was adjourned with a strong and hearty Gut Heil!

The Committee on Physical Training of the N. A. G. U. also arranged a Post-Graduate Course for Teachers of Gymnastics, which was held in Chautauqua, N. Y., July 16th to 28th inclusive, consisting of the Theory and Practice of Gilbert Dancing, Massage, Theory of Gymnastics, Instruction in the Equipment and Management of Summer Camps, Methods of Mass Instruction for Teaching Swimming to Children’s Classes, New or Valuable Gymnastic Games and Other Outdoor Recreations.

Forty-two attended the course which was a very good beginning, and each and every one received many good and new ideas. The members of the faculty were very efficient in their work and deserve much praise. They were as follows:

Mr. N. C. Seuss, Graduate of the Gilbert Normal School of Classic Dancing, Physical Director of the North Cincinnati Turuverein.

Dr. E. H. Arnold, Director of the New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics. Captain M. Stewart of the 8th U. S. Infantry.

Mr. Wm. A. Stecher, Director of Physical Training, Public Schools, Indianapolis, lnd.

Miss Etta Killing, Teacher of Physical Training, Public Schools, Cincinnati, 0., Assistant to Mr. Seuss.

Respectfully,

Carl B. Sputh, c. o. German House, Indianapolis, lnd.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

are in receipt of the Second Annual Report of the St. Paul Playground Committee. The report is well illustrated and contains much valuable information with reference to public playgrounds.

—JFUtnoi* $tate $J. &t. <C. 31. |Mni*tcal SHreetar*' $ octet 9

held a two days’ session in Chicago. On the program are papers on the following interesting subjects:

Surface Anatomy. Dr. Chas. Kurtz.

Anatomy, Physiology and Mechanics of the Heart. Dr. H. F. Kallenberg. Hygiene. Dr. E. L. Hayford.

Parks and Playgrounds. E. B. De Groot.

Basket Ball Coaching. H. Reynolds.

Wrestling. J. Winters.

Fancy Steps. W. E. Day.



Digitized by t^ooQie
-179-

THE VALUE OF ATHLETICS.

By WILLI AM E. DAY.

ATHLETICS are separated into two divisions— indoor and open air.

The latter includes such sports as jumping, running, pole vaulting, weight throwing, base ball, tennis, etc., and this phase of the subject alone will be considered.

Some boys take to athletics like the traditional duck to water and enter into soorts for the joy of the thing; others only engage in games with the hope of securing a price, others will compete only when the chances of winning are certain, and the contest is of the variety known as “Cinch/* others, an indifferent class, under pressure rhay be induced to take part in some form of athletics, and last and least the breed which is rapidly becoming extinct, known as “Mama’s Boys,” who cannot be induced to take part in any form of sport either for love of the game, by persuasion or in the hope of securing a prize.

Undoubtedly too, a large number are imbued with the idea that it is not worth while to engage in sports unless one can become an athlete. In this connection it should be remembered that as Dr. Theodore Haugh says, “It must not be forgotten that the mission of athletics is not primarily to the athlete nor is its chief purpose the training of athletes. The athlete is as much a specialist as the student of Sanskrit literature and great muscular strength and bodily endurance under physical straia which is his specialty, is not more necessar) for the health of the student than is a thorough training in astronomy or physics to the athlete as such. I am convinced that it is a mistake to cultivate a healthy sentiment for rational physical training among people, generally, by means of the athletic ideal alone. So far from encouraging the rational use of athletics by all, it certainly at times tends to discourage it simply because the ideal is* not obtainable to the vast majority of students.”

In passing, attention is called to the small percentage of athletes in the student bodies of the colleges. It is from this unattainable ideal that the general students gather their ideas of sport, and they usually look askance at anv suggestion as to the value of athletics other thaa to become an athlete.

Before engaging in any form of athletics the student should have a thorough medical and physical examination. It is a good plan to have a medical examination at least once every year, taking an account of health as a business man yearly takes an invoice of his stock. If this scheme were followed and advice heeded many lives would be prolonged several years. While partaking in the sports he should be directed by a competent instructor.

The ability to throw the hammer 180 ft., to jump 5 ft. 8 inches high, is not nearly as valuable as is a good healthy body. Athletics should be used primarily not to make big arms, large legs and “muscles as hard as knots/’ but should be used to build up the body with firm muscles not merely to make a splendid animal of the boy, but to make the body n fit receptacle for the indwelling of the well trained mind. This is the mission of athletics: to give to the studend the brain relaxation that will make “trig,” chemistry and mathematics fade away into

Digitized by Tooele
-180-

oblivion ; to put the body in that condition of healthful vigor that the student will not only do better work in his studies but will have a reserve fund of vigorous health and energy that will aid him to stand the stress of later years in business or professional life.

The high school years are not only the physical and mental formative period but also the character formative period. No arguments are needed to demonstrate the value of physical education which should be carried on with the mental as, the better the body, the better the mind.

If a body is not kept busy be will keep someone else busy and the hours of idleness are times of danger to the boy. To be successful in athletics a boy must foreswear vicious habits because “training” simpler means getting the body in the best possible condition, so we find athletics a force against evil habits. This means discipline of the body “which seemed for the present to be not joyous, but grievous; yet afterwards-it yieldeth peaceable fruit unto them that have been exercised thereby.” This discipline of the track and field is shown later in life: contrast the brilliant sedentary student with the one who has cared for his body. “Bodily exercise profiteth.” The enthusiasm of youth however needs curbing and no one should be allowed to make the boast that he never allowed his studies to interfere with his athletics.

ATHLETICS SHOULD BE ADAPTED TO THE NEEDS, NOT THE DESIRES OF YOUNG MEN.

A sound body is a condition of great usefulness.—High School Times, Dayton, Ohio.

NOVELTIES IN ATHLETICS.

(From Athletic League Letter, June 1906.)

A novel relay race was conducted in Boise, Idaho, in which 21 miles were covered by school boys in two hours, 36 minutes. Four teams of 20 boys each were used and a message was carried from the Governor of Nampa to the capital city. The event attracted considerable attention, and the Governor presented a banner to the winning team.

A similar contest covering 10 miles is conducted annually by the St. Paul and Minneapolis Associations and is exceedingly popular.

Some years ago the Cincinnati Association covered a distance of 25 miles, carrying a message from the Mayor of Hamilton to the Mayor of Cincinnati. In each of these events thousands ol people gathered along the line and cheered the boys on the victory. Telephone messages were sent en route by officials announcing the time of each runner.

The original message containing the official seals of both cities was presented to the athlete making the best time, the other runners receiving facsimile copies of the same.

Louisville and New Orleans held a very unique contest kown as a telegraphic athletic meet. The events were held simultaneously in the local gymnasiums and the results telegraphed. This provides a splendid opportunity for holding meets between Associations widely separated, obviating the usual transportation expenses and weariness of travel.

THIS MEANS YOU!

We will send “MIND AND BODY” free to you for one year on receiot of $*.00 for 4 new subscribers.

igitized by Google
-181 •

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

f Continued^

A CLASS DRILL, division work on the apparatus and closing with the game “Wander Ball.” See explanation below. As a preliminary a short run, gymnastic tactics or for a change figure marching.

In front line, count off ranks to sixes. Place two long wands (or climbing poles) on the floor at right angle to the front line for each rank. Class r. face; march forw., and all ranks file 1. (simultaneously) between the wands (poles) lying on the floor.

T		T		T
T		T		T
T		T		T
T		T		T
T		T		T
T		T		T

Bend knees and grasp wands—1! Extend knees and lift wands to starting pos.—2!

LONG WAND DRILL.

1.	Toe-touch sideward 1. and raise wands outw.—1! Raise 1. leg sidew. and move arms overh.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

2.	Toe-touch sidew. 1. and raise wands outw.—1! Bendkneestep forw.

1.	and move arms forw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

3. Stride pos. backw. 1. and raise wands under shoulders—1 ! Bend 1. knee, bend trunk forw. and stretch arms downw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

4.	Lunge sidew. 1., raise 1. wand overh. and lower on the r. shoulder (forearm in front of face)—1!. Pos.—2! Same r.—3,4!

Bend knees and place wands on the floor— l! Release grasp and rise to fundamental pos —2!

Hands against sides of chest—place!

o.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly in four counts; exhale and press with hands against chest walls to aid in contracting in the latter, in one count. Repeat 5 or 6 times. Arms—down!

Again grasp and lilt wands to starting pos.—1, 2!

fl. Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise w’ands outw.—1! Kneel on r. knee and move arms overh.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—5, 8!

7. Stride pos. sidew. 1. and place wands over shoulders—1! Bend 1. knee, bend trunk sidew. 1. and stretch arms outw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4!

5.	Stride position sidew. 1. and raise wands outw.—1 ! Vi turn 1. on heels, kneel on r. knee, move 1. arm overh. and lower r. arm to hack of r. thigh—2! As 1—3! Pos —4! Same r.—1, 4!

t). Jump to stride pos. outw. and raise wands outw.—1 ! Jump to cross-stride pos. (inw.), 1. leg in front, and move arms overh.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Repeat with r. leg in front—.r>, 8! Execute in lively rhythm about 8 times.

Bend knees and place wands on the floor—1! Release grasp and rise to fundamental pos.—2!

Digitized by Google
-182-

10. Breathing exercise.*—Inhale slowly and raise arms forw. overh. in four counts; exhale slowly and lower arms outw. to starting pos. in four counts. Repeat 5 or 6 times.

NOTE.—The last members of each rank to remove the wands.

The ranks march forw.; file 1. or r. to a flank line, form divisions anci march to assigned places for apparatus work.

First Division: Second “ Third Fourth “

Side horse and oblique ladder. Oblique ladder and side horse. Broad bucks and flying rings. Flying rings and broad bucks.

Change places. Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division.—Side Horse.

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Jump to momentary front rest and double rear vault mount r. (over neck and lower on croup); rear vault dismount sidew. r. (on near side of horse).

2.	Double rear vault r.

3.	Double rear vault swing r. (over neck and croup) to back rest on-near side of croup; V6 circle r. with t. leg (cut backw. under r. leg and r. hand) to cross straddle rest and immediately dismount sidew. 1. with Vi turn r. to front cross stand, then rear vault r.

4.	Triple rear vault r. (over neck, croup and croup).

5.	Jump to front rest, feint r. with both legs and triple rear vault r.

6.	An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Execute all movements I. and r.

Repeat all movements that are not executed very well until good form is acquired before proceeding to the next.

Change place with the second division on the oblique ladder.

First Division.—Oblique Ladder (under side).

In front side hang on r. beam, hands in ordinary grasp.—

1. Travel sidew. r. to upper end; descend sidew. 1.

2. As ex. 1, but r. hand on beam, the 1. hand in outside grasp on the nearest round.

3.	As ex. 1, but move both hands simultaneously.

On under side in front cross hang, hands in outside grasp on beams.—

4.	Travel to upper end, hands moving alternately, with knees raised forw.; descend in the same manner.

5.	As ex. 4, but both legs raised forw. obi. outw. to clear the sides of the ladder.

6.	As ex. 4, but move both hands simultaneously.

7.	In front cross hang, hands in ordinary grasp on the rounds; travel to upper end, moving the hands alternately; descend in the same manner.

8.	An exercise free for all.

NOTE. — Repeat the first three exercises on the opposite side.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-183-

Second Division.—Oblique Ladder (under side).

Same exercises as the first division.

Change place with the first division on the side horse.

Second Division.—Side Horse.

A short ran preceeds all movements.

1.	Jump to momentary free front rest, squat forw. with both legs at ' r. angle and hold 2 or 3 counts; Va turn 1. and lower legs to riding seat on neck; place hands in front, raise both legs backw* to free front rest and backw. scissors dismount.

2.	Straddle vault forw. to back rest; squat backw. with both legs to momentary free front rest, then feint with r. leg and rear vault r.

3.	Jump to front restand feint with 1. leg, then screw mount backw. 1. on croup; front scissors; raise both legs forw. as in feinting and as the legs lower, lean forw., place both hands on the farther pommel and rear vault r.

4.	Double rear vault mount r. (over neck on croup); front scissors; circle 1. leg over saddle to join the r.. immediately grasp both pommels and feint r. with both legs, then front vault 1. to cross stand.

5.	An exercise free for all.

NOTE.—Execute all movements 1. and r.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same movements. The third to begin on the broad bucks and the fourth on the flying rings, and change places.

Bucks. Two bucks placed broadwise, one behind the other with a mat b« tween them, and another in front of the second buck, as: A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Straddle vault over both bucks in successive order.

2.	As ex. 1, over first buck and kneestandon second buck; dismount forw.

3.	As ex. 1, over first buck and squat rest on second buck; dismount forw. with Va turn 1. half bent-knee pos.

4.	As ex. 1, over first buck and squat vault over second buck.

5.	As ex. 1, over first buck and squat rest r. and extended leg held sidew., on second buck; dismount forw.

6.	As ex. 1, over first buck and Wolf vault 1. over second buck.

7.	Jump to knee stand on first buck; dismount forw. and straddle vault forw. over second buck.

8.	Jump to squat rest on first buck; dismount forw. and straddle vault forw. over second buck with Va turn 1.

9.	Squat vault over first buck and straddle vault over second buck with Vs turn 1.

10.	Jump to squat rest on first buck; jump from the first buck to the second; dismount forw. with V2 turn 1., and swing arms forw. overh.

11.	As ex. 10, but free jump over the second buck.

NOTE—Execute all movements 1. and r. whenever por»ihle.

Flying Rings. (Height of head.)

1. Jump to bent arm hang with both arms; down. Repeat twice.

Digitized by tjOOQle
-184—

2.	Jump to bent arm hang r. and raise extended 1. arm sidew.; down.

Same opposite. Repeate once.

3.	As ex. 2, but raise extended arm forw., etc.

4. As ex. 2, with raising extended 1. leg sidew., etc.

5. As ex. 3, with raising extended 1. leg forw., etc.

In upper arm hang.—

f>. Short swing forw. and backw. 4 or 5 times. Down.

NOTE.—Flex thighs over body with every forw. swing.

7. Short swing sidew. 1. and r. 4 or 5 times. Down.

8. Circle both legs r. Same 1. b or 8 times.

9.	An exercise free for all.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus and prepare for the game‘‘Wander Ball.” Form circle of about 10 or 12 members each, as this number creates more interest and avoids crowding.

Rules.—Members to stand about 8 feet apart, facing inw. Seniors and juniors to use the medicine ball of about 4 to 6 or 8 pounds, while older girls and ladies use the basket ball.

Pass the ball in circle to the 1. or r.

The one chasing after the ball takes his position within the circle and endeavors to tag the ball while the latter is being passed or held in the hands of one of the other players.

If he touches the ball (with the hands), then the one who threw the ball last is “it.” The latter takes his position within the circle, the former runner joins the circle where he tagged the ball.

When passing the ball no one must be skipped; however, if one is skipped, then the one who caused it must relieve the runner even though the runner had no chance to touch the ball. Skipping occurs when the players are too eager to get rid of the ball when the runner is prettj’ close to the same. Thus the game continues indefinitely.

After conclusion of the game clap hands once and dismiss.

(To be continued.

FOOTBALL.

“Football” was the topic of the after dinner speaking of the Harvard Teachers’ Association in the Harvard Union. Dr. E. H. Nichols, physician in charge of the Harvard eleven the past year, the Rev. En-dicott Peabody of Groton school and Paul H. Hanus of the Harvard department of education took part in the discussion, Prof. Hanus reading a paper prepared bv Head Coach William T. Reid of Harvard, who was forced to attend the meeting of the football rules committee. In the general discussion the sentiment of the majority of the teachers present was that the game should be continued under revised rules.

Mr. Reid’s paper began by saying that he believed that cities made a mistake in not allowing Sunday base ball, though personally he was a believer in keeping the Sabbath. He would not allow sports for all classes, as those who had all the week to play, but he considered it better for men to be playing base ball or to be at a ball game than have them standing on the street corners talking filth so that it was impossible for a lady to pass.

In speaking of college life he said there were those who believed a man came for study pure and simple, but he believed, however, that there was much at college outside of books.

Mr. Reid’s paper then went on:

‘‘Being a game of personal contact football may develop either men

Digitized by CaOOQie
-185-

or muckers. Now football is being attacked on all sides, and justly so. It has passed from a game to a spectacle. Some critics are demanding a more interesting game, some a game with less injuries, and some a game with less underhandedness and meanness.”

He dismissed the first two with little discussion, as to his mind the third demand was the most important. He then considered the questions of coaching and proselytizing, saying practically what he said at the Vermont Association dinner. He concluded:

“What we want is honesty in athletics, sport and fair play, and now that the American people have taken hold of the problem they will accomplish these things. Greater care is needed in the selection of coaches; players must be taught what fairness is and those who cannot play fairly should be put off the team.”

Following this paper, President E. H. Nichols called upon the Rev. Endicott Peabody of Groton school to discuss football.

Dr. Peabody said: “The faults of commission lie with the coaches, and they are not confined to football, they appertain to all sports. Secondly, they are in all colleges, and I was about to say in all coaches, but the men wh.o have not been guilty of them stood out as marked men. Teach men to play honestly; that is the beginning of all reform.

“Under the signs of omission we say in college sport that these men are old enough to look after themselves, and so after their sport. Then if they make a mess of it, we stop the whole thing.

“We cannot make football other than dangerous, and we don’t want to, but we want it clean. The game should be changed by the experts. They are honest men, but they have inherited a dishonest tradition. Still, they are as capable to reform it as you school teachers are to keep discipline in the class room.”

Dr. Nichols then enumerated what he considered the advantages of football, as follows:	“It	develops	discipline	as does no other sport, it

teaches self-sacrifice and physical courage and it teaches, especially in the managers and captains, business and administrative ability. Of physical courage Dr. Nichols said, it was much overrated, by the boys, that, “next to dirt, it was the commonest commodity on earth.”

Among the evils of the game he recounted proselytizing, the desire-to-win-at-any-cost-spirit, the spirit of the coaches and the distraction from the college duties.

In discussing “What’s to be done about it?” Dr. Nichols said in part: “In the matter of influencing public sentiment we can all help, but at present public sentiment is not enough to save the game whose good features overweigh its objections. Have less publicity by confining the games to the college public. This can be carried out in a measure by never having the tickets put on public sale. The amount taken in at the gates should be diminished.

“Every one in athletic management has one fad, and mine is to do away with all coaching. The undergraduates ought to spend the gray matter in planning their work, as well as doing it. I do not, however, believe that the time has yet come when they should be left to handle all their athletic affairs, for when, now and then, we see graduates make a mess of things, it is too much to expect undergraduates to handle things successfully.”

MASS-EXERCISES, INDIANAPOLIS TURNFEST, EASTERN HALF. (From the “Souvenir of the Indianapolis Turnfest.”)
-188-

FIELD DAY

FOR THE 6th, 7th AND 8th GRADES, INDIANAPOLIS PUBLIC SCHOOLS

May 19, Baseball Park.

(Concluded.)

GROUP IV.

Exercise 1.

Raise the arms upward with one step left sideward 1—2.

Left hand over shoulder, right downward at the right side (wand obliquely across the back) with one step left sideward 3—4.

Return 5—8.

Repeat to the right 0—16.

Exercise 2.

Raise the arms upward with one step left sideward 1—2.

Left hand under shoulder, right downward with lunge left sideward 3—4.

Return 5—8.

Repeat to the right 0—16.

Exercise 3.

Raise the arms forward with stride lelt backward 1—2.

Raise the arms upward with half turn left on the heels 3—4.

Return 5—8.

Repeat to the right 0—16.

Exercise 4-.

Raise the arms forward with stride left backward 1—2.

Raise the arms upward with half turn left on the heels and kneeling on the right knee 3—4.

Return 5—8.

Repeat to the right 0—16.

CAPTAIN BALL.

The field is an oblong 30x60 feet, divided into two equal parts.

Ten players form a team. They are divided into five basemen and five guards. Their positions are as shown in the diagram on next page. The bases are two feet square.

Guards are not allowed to go into the territory of their opponents, nor to step into the boxes.

Basemen must always have at least one foot in their boxes. They are allowed to jump up into the air to catch the ball.

The game is in charge ol an umpire, who calls all fouls. At the beginning of the game he tosses the ball up in the center of the field between the two guards who face him.

After a point has been made he tosses the ball up in the center.

If a ball is held by two plaveis he tosses it up between them.

In case of a foul he decides which baseman shall have the ball for a free throw. (In a free throw the baseman having the ball may not be interfered with, but the other players of his side should be guarded.)

There shall be a scorer, who is also timekeeper.

If in the course of a game the ball rolls outside of the field it shall be put in play by one of the guards nearest the place where it rolled out.

The object of the game is to get the ball (a basket ball) successively into the hands o( two or more basemen of a side.

Points are made as follows:

1.	If the ball successively gets into the hands of two basemen of the same team, this play counts one point.

2.	If the ball successively gets into the hands of a baseman and then to the captain, this play counts two points.

3.	Should the succession be captain, baseman and then again captain, the play also counts two points.

4.	If the ball successively gets into the hands of two basemen and then to the captain, the play counts three points.

Digitized by
-189-

Fouls are made as follows:

1.	Carrying the ball.

2.	Striking the balls when in the hands of a player.

3.	Holding, poshing, striking or tripping an opponent.

4*. Getting out of the box with both feet at the same time.

5.	Stepping into the opponents’ territory or boxes.

DIAGRAMS OF FIELD.

Prisoner's Base

The shaded positions arc occupied by one team and the unshaded by the other. Name your teams the “Reds” and the “Blues,”, or any other colors, as it simplifies matters.

PRISONER'S BASE.

The field is an oblong 20xf*0 feet. Eight players constitute a team. At the right end of each goal is a prison. The object ol the game is to tag a player of the opposing side who left his goal sooner than the pursuer. The game is begun by a good runner going toward his opponents and daring one to run out and tag him. As soon as an opponent runs after the “darer” and he is in danger of being tagged, he retreats, and one of his side conies out to his support. The point to be watched is: that any player running out may tag and make a prisoner of any opponent who left his goal sooner than his pursuer. As soon as a prisoner is made he.is conducted to the prison by his captor and all players return to their ba«cs. Only one prisoner may be made at a time. The prisoner places one foot in the prison and stretches his arm out toward his side. The game now starts anew. Should another prisoner be taken bv the same side they join hands and stretch out toward their side as far as possible. Should a player succeed to tag the foremost prisoner without being caught, both prisoners are

Captain Ball

CAPTAIN.

Digitized by LaOOQle
-190-

free and al! the plnyers go back to their bases. The side making three prisoners wins the game.

It is advisable not to have more than two players of the same side out in the open field at the same time.

Players running over or being forced over the side lines are prisoners. An umpire has charge of the game. The scorer shall also be timekeeper.

GYMNASTIC NOMENCLATURE.

By DR. E. H. ANROLD.

STRIDE OUT.

1.	Left	forward stride—out! Replace!..........................(Fig*	70.)

2.	Left	sideward stride—out! Replace!.........................(Fig.	71.)

3.	Left	backward stride—out! Replace!........................(Fig.	72.)

FALL OUT (step OUT, LUNGE!)

1.	Left	forward fall-out! Replace!...........................(Fig.	73.)

2.	Left	sideward fall—out! Replace!..........................(Fig.	74.)

3.	Left	backward fall-out! Replace!..........................(Fig.	75.)

—GBrabuatton <$xerci*e* of The Institute and Training School of the Y. M. C. A. were held at Lake Geneva, Wis., during the days of July 27th to 31st. The program was an unusually elaborate one.

Digitized by t^ooQle
-191-

YOUNG MEN S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION S PHYSICAL DIRECTORS’ CONFERENCE.

By E. T. BOZENHARD.

The annual conference of the Physical Directors’ Society of the Y. M. C. A. was allied with the thirty-third conference of the Association of Employed Officers of the Young Men’s Christian Association of North America, held at Indianapolis June 1st to 5th. The program which covered several days was as follows:

WEDNESDAY, MAY 30th.—morning session.

Address by the President Dr. George J. Fisher of New York.

Address—“The Relation of Physical Training to Character.” Dr. E. M . Hartwell of Boston.

Report of Committee on Bibliography.

AFTERNOON SESSION.

Report of Religious Work Committee.

The Scope of Possibilities of Religious Work in the Physical Department. Mr.

A. J. Elliott of Brooklyn.

Report of Committee on Personal Purity.

Address—“Fatigue.” Dr. J. H. McCurdy of Springfield, Mass.

EVENING SESSION.

Address—“The Relation of the Physical Department to the Tuberculosis Problem.’9 How Can the Association Educate Young Men with Reference to their Physical Habits. Dr. John Wethered, Association Health Farm, Edgewatcr, Colorado. Report of Committee on Practical Talks.

Report of Committee on Study Courses.

THURSDAY, May 31 st.—morning session.

Report of Committee on Competitive Athletics.

“The Place of Competitive Athletics in Modern Life.” Mr. C. R. H. Jackson of Scranton, Pa.

“Higher Ideals for Competitive Sports.” Mr. A. B. Wegener of Rochester, N. Y. A Campaign for Clean Men on our Athletic Teams. Mr. J. B. Modesitt of Milwaukee, Wis.

Basket Ball (a study). Mr. H. Hamnett of Chicago.

AFTERNOON SESSION.

Report of Special Committee on Athletics.

Report of Committee on A. A. U. Affiliation.

Lessons from the Administration of Athletics. Dr. J. G. Fisher, of New York. Report of Committee on Anthropometry.

EVENING SESSION.

The Training and Discovery of Men. Dr. W. H. Kinnicut* of Cleveland, Ohio. Report of Committee on Extension Work.

FRIDAY, JUNE 1st.—afternoon (business) session.

Report of Secretary-Treasurer.

Report of Finance Committee.

Report of Publication Committee.

Report of Committee on A. P. E. A. Affiliation.

Election of Officers.

Address—The Grading of Calisthenics and Gymnastics. Mr. William Stecher, Director Physical Training, Public Schools, Indianapolis, Ind.

Adjournment.

MONDAY, JUNE 4th.—afternoon session.

Report of Committee on Nomenclature.

Report of Committee on Graded Work.

Report of Committee on Uniforms.

Report of Committee on Gymnastic Games.

Summary. Dr. H. F. Kallenberg.

Digitized by boogie
-192-

The addresses were inspiring and the reports of the various committees comprehensive and instructive. The discussions, as emphasized by Dr. Fisher in his closing talks, were less involved and more to the point than those of previous conferences and hence were of greatly increased value. The conference in its entiretv was highly successful and of undoubted educational and inspirational value to the one hundred and five physical directors who attended.

BOOK REVIEW.

(All the books mentioned under this head may be ordered from the Freidenker Publ. Co., Milwaukee.

—Foods That Make You Fat. Potatoes, peas, baked beans, fats, sweets— such as puddings, pies and cake—ale, beer, sweet wines and even water when taken with meals, all conduce to obesity. But, in lieu of the foregoing fat producers, one may satisfy hunger with a moderate allowance of lean meats, poultry, fish; with fruits (excepting figs, dates and bananas), and with vegetables, such as spinach, string beans, egg plant, celery, beets, etc. I would recommend that those over fat from a too rich and too generous diet abstain from much liquid at meals, but that they drink copiously of water between meals to flush their systems. Water, be it remembered, is an excellent purgative.—G. Elliot Flint in “Dieting vs. Exercise to Reduce Flesh,’’ in The Outing Magazine for July.

—Champion Braid Writes a Book. Champion James Braid has written a book on “How to Play Golf,’’ which is published in Spalding’s Athletic Library. This is the first book ever written by Braid on the subject, and it is admitted to be one of the most instructive publications on Golf that has ever been offered to the public.

The book contains many full page illustrations of Braid in action and chapters entitled: Beginners’ Wrong Ideas; Method of Tuition on Choice of Clubs; How to Grip the Club; The Long Ball; Pulling and Slicing; Playing in a Wind; Brassey Play; Play with Iron Clubs; Cleek Shots; The Iron; The Rnnning-up Shot; The Mashie; The Niblik; Putting, and Playing the Round.

Champion Braid’s book will be sent, postpaid, to any address in the United States or Canada, for 10 cents, by the American Sports Publishing Co., 21 Warren St., New York City.

—Among the striking outdoor books of the year Mr. Horace Kephart’s book of “Camping and Woodcraft,” which The Outing Publishing Company promises during August, is one of the best. Few men are as well known, as campers or as writers of campers, as is Mr. Kephart. For many years he has spent a large amount of his time in the woods, and his book covers every detail which the novice or the inexperienced camper can care to know about, from the kind of mosquito netting to the quality of tent canvas. The book moreover is written with all the charm of the story.

GAMES FOR SCHOOLS AND GYMNASIA. By W. C. SCHAEFER. Milwaukee, 1900. Freidenker Publishing Co. pp. 36; Bound half cloth. Price 50c.—The scarcity of text books on movement games for the girls and boys in our American public and private schools has long been felt as a grievous want. Of German books on the movement games there has never been a lack, but the English litterature was devoid of any acceptable collections of such games. Mr. Schaefer has undertaken the task to collaborate such a book with great insight and circumspection. The games are conspicuously arranged under different headings from sound pedagogical points of view and well classified for girls and boys. No teacher of our public, private, and gymnastic schools having Anglo-American pupils under his or her care can afford to be yvithout this book. It embodies moral and physical as well as intellectual elements and is sure to Attract the attention of every progressive pedagogue.

Digitized by '-.ooQLe