Vol. 2.

AUGUST, 1895.

No. 18.

Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, cook co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, III.

WM. STECHER, Secretary of the Technical committee of the N. a. gymnastic Union, 1880 Papin 8t., St. Louis,Mo. Hans BALLIN, managing Editor, Southern Illinois State normal University, CarbONDALE, III.

HENLEY REGATTA.

(The “Gymnast” and Athletic Review.)

Another Henley has come and gone, the river has resumed its wonted aspect, and the gay revel, with its galaxy of beauty and strength, has become a gorgeous phantasmagoria of the past. “Henley once more is delightfully quiet, and ’tis soothing to muse on the Red Lion lawn.” The tinkle of a banjo is borne to us now and again on the still evening air, and we involuntarily recall the scene—now three weeks gone; the myriad twinkling lights of the house-boats, the blaze of coloured stars as the rockets ascended, the laughter and song that increased as twilight deepened into dusk, and all that merry riot and splendour that go to make up a Royal Henley.

In many respects the Henley of 1895 was a memorable one. The brilliancy of the weather, and the absence of the usual Henley showers, tempted the ladies to don their gayest attire, and the event, from a spectacular point of view, was all that could be desired, besides being almost a record year so far as the attendance was concerned—in fact, the crowd was so great that one or two races were spoiled by careless sightseers. A much more important feature, however, in this year’s Regatta was the number of foreign and colonial entries, representatives from the United States, Canada, Holland and France having pitted their strength against the home grown article. The student of style found much to interest him in comparing the short jerky stroke of the Cornell crew with the long nose-in-air stroke of the Dutchmen, while the cosmopolitan crowd of spectators furnished abundant material for those who believe with Pope that “the proper stud}' of mankind is man.”

i

Digitized by G,OOQle
—102—

On Tuesday, July 9th, the opening day, a gloom was thrown over the whole day’s sport by the unfortunate error in judgement on the part of the umpire, which rendered the most important race of the day (Cornell v. Leander, 3rd heat for the Grand Challenge Cup) a miserable fiasco. Much has been said on both sides, and the incident is better forgotten. The 1st heat for the Stewards’ Challenge Cup (London R. C. v. Argonaut R. C.) was one of the grandest races ever witnessed. After an exciting give and take race, London was nearly clear a short distance above the Isthmian Club when the Canadians spurted tremendously and gradually drew up off Phyllis Court. The remainder of the distance was a magnificent struggle, and London managed to win by two feet. On Wednesday the river and banks were crowded to excess, and the American element was very conspicuous. The great event was the meeting of Trinity Hall and Cornell in the 5th heat for the Grand Challenge Cup, and the wildest enthusiasm reigned when it was seen that Wauchop’es spurt at the mile had proved too much for Cornell. The Eton crew showed to great advantage in the 2nd heat for the Ladies Challenge Plate, and won easily from the Lady Margaret crew by two lengths. In the 4th heat for the Diamond Sculls, Guy Nickalls won easily from F. H. Thompson, the Canadian. Thursday was remarkable for the well-deserved success of the Amsterdam University team against Moulsey B. C. in the final for the Thames Challenge Cup, and their win was thoroughly deserved and well received. The sportsmanlike conduct of the St. John’s (Oxford) crew in waiting for Eton when No. 2 caught a most decided crab, is deserving of mention, as at the second start Eton got well away and won easily. The winners of the various finals were as follows, viz. :—

Grand Challenge Cup (for eight oars).—Trinity Hall B. C., Cambridge, 7 mins. 30 secs.

Ladies Challenge Plate (for eight oars).—Eton College B. C., 7 mins. 25 secs.

Thames Challenge Cup (for eight oars).—Nereus B. C., Amsterdam University, 7 mins. 29 secs.

Stewards’ Challenge Cup (for four oars).—London R. C., 7 mins. 45 secs.

Visitors’ Challenge Cup (for four oars). —Trinity College B. C., Oxford, 8 mins. 17 secs.

Wyfold Challenge Cup (for four oars). — London R. C., 8 mins. 16 secs.

Silver Goblets (Nickalls’ Challenge Cup), for pair oars.—Vivian and Guy Nickalls (London R. C.). 9 mins. 11 secs.

Diamond Sculls.—Hon. R. Guinness, 9 mins. 11 secs.

It is probable that next year Cornell University will be represented by two crews, and there is little doubt but that the Dutchmen and the Canadians will again visit us, so that it is quite on the cards that the Henley of 1895 may be eclipsed bv that of 1896. If such should prove to be the case, may we be there to see—for the present, we are quite contented to ‘‘laze at the ruddy-faced inn by the river, for Henley is. restful in dreamy July !”

Digitized by

Google
—103—

The Principles of Instruction in Gymnastics.*

Translated from the German by F. E. LEONARD, M. D.

I. THE INSTRUCTION SHOULD BE DEVELOPING.

EVERY child, however young he may be, enters the gymnasium with a certain number of movements which he performs with ease ; for the happy activity of childhood is the first step in gymnastics, and the more frequent his visits to the playgrounds on the meadow, in the garden and in the forest have been, the better prepared is the pupil for instruction. This enables the teacher to commence with known movements. As he progresses he adds to these familiar movements something new, something not yet practiced, involving muscular co-ordinations of which the will has either no conception at all, or at least only an imperfect one, and yet something that differs only slightly from the first exercises, so that naturally it will not be difficult for the scholars to comprehend it and execute it correctly. If one moves steadily forward in this way it is evident that as the exercises grow constantly more difficult and complex, provided they lie within the present measure of strength, they can always and step by step be clearly grasped and therefore correctly executed. In most cases, then, a slight indication of one’s wish will find in the body a pliant object. The pedagogical requirement that one shall advance from the known to the unknown can consequently be fully met in gymnastic instruction. This involves the possibility of proceeding, in conformity with further principles, from the easy to the difficult, from the simple to the complex ; for what is easy is commonly simple, and this is usually that which is known, the complex, too, goes almost always hand in hand with the difficult, and this is not rarely the unknown. For that reason the ascent from the easy to the difficult, from the simple to the complex, will be as like the progress from the known to the unknown as is one egg to another.

The wav from the simple to the complex is so obvious that it is easily found. That from the easy to the difficult is less evident, since we often lack an index of the degree of difficulty. To leave the decision entirely to the subjective sensation in this case is very deceptive, since it is often the case that what to one seems easy appears very difficult to another. This depends in part upon bodily disposition, but also upon clearness of mind in the control of the motor apparatus,—a quality developed in different directions in varying degrees. On the other hand it is not to be denied that the more one exercise resembles another, the more closely it is related to it, the less will be the difference in the difficulty of execution ; therefore in the degree of resemblance we have a natural and certain index of the degree of difficulty. Only let one arrange the exercises according to their greater or less similarity, and the difficult will gradually follow after those which are easy.

How rapid or how slow shall be the progress in gymnastic instruction in the directions mentioned depends entirely upon the stage of physical training which the pupils have reached. With beginners one will move forward quite slowly, the successive exercises will be very

Methodik des Turnunterrichts. Moritz Zettler. 2nd Edition. Berlin, 1881. Pp. 69—78.

Digitized by G.ooQle

/
-104—

simple and their resemblance to one another will be close ; but with more practiced gymnasts, in whom the will has acquired a greater control over the body, and who are consequently accustomed to a larger number of movements, and capable of a fuller and surer, a quicker and deeper comprehension of them, the series of exercises must have a rapid ascent.

In the method of teaching just characterized one exercise develops from the others, it prepares for later ones, that which precedes secures the understanding of those which follow. This plan, which is based on principles of logic, is in entire harmony with the so-called Socratic method, whose extensive application to all departments of education has raised the school to the lofty position which it occupies to-day. It may be further recommended that in the method of teaching described all the exercises should have something in common, should group themselves about one definite gymnastic thought, which may conveniently be called the theme of the series. The more or less closely related exercises may appropriately be regarded as modifications or variations of the theme ; and so the proposed method resembles a musical composition, and the phrase ‘elaboration of a gymnastic theme’ is a fit one.

The elaboration of a theme by no means presupposes familiarity with a great number of exercises. For example, after the scholars in their first lessons have practiced the alignment, marking time, stamping, arm-thrusting,—all exercises which are soon learned,—one can begin to give variations of a definite theme. One such would be, in the case in question : arm-thrusting in time with marching. By thrusting in the different directions and in varying order, by stamping in various ways, by turning while marching, it is possible to put together a series of exercises for the merest beginners. Because two exercises are combined, even with such small scholars, the attention will be kept continually alert, and the action can hardly become mechanical, as it does only too easily where a number of simple movements are practiced one after the other.

In the lowest grades one can also arrange a theme with gymnastics upon apparatus, though the manner in which it is carried out must be very elementary, in order that the mind, which is as yet little accustomed to gymnastic ideas, may always act with the necessary clearness. The supply, too, of exercises upon apparatus is so abundant that for every stage of gymnastic proficiency enough can be found that are suited to the gifts of comprehension and the bodily strength. Exercises which the pupils master only by frequent repetition, by long and arduous practice, are not adapted to them, but should be saved for a later period, for a more advanced age.

The developing method of teaching is quite useful for gymnastic societies, as well, and why indeed should this not be the case; for when logical principles hold sway, there is order, and with it success. Hardworking gymnasts are at once conscious of the fact that a series of exercises is developing and upbuilding, just as an eager hearer readily follows a lecture that is logically constructed. And experience has repeatedly furnished the proof that gymnasts who by practice have acquired some understanding of the advantages of the developing

Digitized by Tooele
—105—

method will criticise the leader who attempts in squad gymnastics to serve up a motley collection of exercises.

The developing method is exceedingly advantageous where one wishes to retain a series of exercises. In consequence of the relationship of the separate parts to each other, and because each exercise is linked to the rest, it is almost always the case that at the thought of what is seen, of what is being done, a host of past impressions are revived in the memory, and by some reflection it is often possible to reproduce without difficulty the whole train of thought, with all its turnings. At public gymnastic displays, also, when as a rule the memory is subjected to quite a severe strain, it is possible to arrange the series of exercises in a strictly logical order, that they may more readily be kept in mind.

Does not such a method also contain within itself all the conditions of rapid progress ? Or is it likely that this would be as rapid if the most dissimilar movements followed one another in a confused order ? Unless they are simple, or already familiar, a rapid mastery of them is at the very outset rendered impossible, as is also that previous estimation of the result which a logical method of instruction allows. It is, indeed, true that often repeated attempts and long practice the mind finally obtains a clear picture of even the most difficult and complex exercise, and that its correct execution can ultimately be reached. It is moreover a familiar fact that the most incapable corporal will at last carry the most awkward recruit to a point when he becomes able to execute military movements. But such an unmethodical way of teaching involuntarily calls to mind the old alchemists who threw into their crucibles materials the most various, and then began to heat them. Even though their experiments were sometimes crowned with success, as was the case with Bottcher, for example, when he discovered porcelain, yet such an outcome can by no means be regarded as the necessary result of an intelligent course of action, but only as the product of a freak of chance. Equally valuable is the gymnastics in which the exercises follow one another without coherence. If after repeated trials something is learned one may always rejoice at the outcome, but such teaching is of no pedagogical importance. Even the mental mastery of the material to be handled is lacking. And so long as we are not determined to let our sequence of exercises be rigidly governed, as by law, so long let no one venture to speak of the art of instructing in gymnastics. Only when we strive, in imparting instruction according to the laws of thought, to introduce unity into the variety of material for teaching, shall we enter the outer court of the art.

At the outset let me anticipate an objection to the proposed method that will be raised by those who lay it down as the supreme principle that one should in every gymnastic lesson bring the whole body into activity, so that arms, trunk and legs are always equally exercised. This view of gymnastic management is the reason that in many gymnasia exercises in hanging position, exercises in rest position, and vaulting exercises follow each other on the same apparatus in the most heterogeneous fashion. A suitable and symmetrical gradation in the sequence of exercises, depending upon a clear understanding of them, is not possible in such a case ; but on the other hand repeated attempts at the same



Digitized by LjOOQle
-106-

exercise must there supply the lack of clearness in arrangement. The logical method is replaced by the drill-system, exemplified on the parade-grounds in so well-marked a fashion. For it is not always easy for scholars to comprehend the nature of the exercises, especially when there is a great variety of these. It is also true, therefore, that a gymnastic management which lets the most different exercises follow one after the other without any connection, instead of reaching its intended goal, will fail to secure ver\’ favorable results, and will render rapid progress impossible.

For the teacher, moreover, such a method is very inconvenient, since as soon as he finds himself without a long list of exercises at his command he must again and again puzzle his brains over the problem, ‘what comes next.’ Quite the same phenomenon appears here that one can so often observe in conversations where there is no definite theme to be discussed. Ideas soon fail, and the conversation flags.

The harmonious development of the body demands, of course, the continuous practice of gymnastics. A single group of related exercises will always, however, bring only a certain number of muscles into action, and one might therefore reproach the proposed method of teaching with being one-sided. If there were in the gymnasium only one piece of apparatus, only one sort of gymnastics, then it could not be denied that there was some ground Tor the charge, since the balance could not be preserved except by methodical management. But in fact we have at our disposal the most various forms of apparatus for vaulting, for exercises in hanging, rest, and balancing positions. If among these sorts of apparatus a seasonable alternation is secured, then such a reproach must be rejected as unjustified. And still further the teacher of gymnastics can always call to his assistance a vast variety of free exercises. These should be properly combined with gymnastics upon apparatus in every lesson, and then one should not forget to so arrange the exercises on the different pieces of apparatus that within a certain time the whole body shall have been brought into activity.

Indeed, if one stops to think, it is utterly impossible in one lesson to execute all the movements of which the body is capable. It is also true that such a course is not desirable, but each lesson will complete only a part of the whole. It is enough if one can record a thorough and harmonious education at the end of a much longer period. In other kinds of discipline is the whole territory covered at once ? It is only after many lessons that the separate parts are joined together into a well-formed whole. The sculptor’s ideal does not appear before the eyes in a moment, but little by little it grows from shapelessness into the complete form.

“In the school-hours of one day, or even of one week, there is no need that all the pupil’s powers be equally exercised, and yet in the course of a year symmetrical progress in the development of the mind can be accomplished ; just as little necessary is it, and indeed quite impossible, to exercise in one lesson all the powers and capabilities of movement that the body possesses. It is sufficient if this has been done after a long series of lessons, and if at the end of a more extended period of

Digitized by Google
—107—

time, one year for example, all the physical faculties have received equal attention and made equal improvement.”*

It deserves further mention here that hitherto there have been no conclusive proofs that in every lesson it is possible for the most various exercises to follow one another on the same apparatus; but on the contrary many pieces of apparatus suggest plainty that in the case of bodily development one has to look toward a certain distant goal, and must not limit his thought to the duration of one short lesson. What, for example, can one improve by using the spring-board, except the elasticity of the legs ? It is true, also, that most of the exercises on the horse or buck are efficient mainly in increasing the supporting power of the arms and the leaping power of the legs.

From the customary manner, too, of managing a class during apparatus work it by no means follows that related exercises cannot follow one another. Every pupil after he has completed * one exercise has a, short period of rest while others are repeating it, since no hall is so abundantly supplied with apparatus that a separate piece can be assigned to each individual or to each pair. As a rule it will happen that 8—10 scholars form one squad, and it is therefore only after the exercise has been repeated 7—9 times by his companions that the first scholar comes again to the apparatus. The previously active muscles will become so rested meanwhile that they can be brought again into a similar sort of activity by means of a related exercise without any harm resulting. All physiological observations hitherto made on the working capacity of the human muscular system point to this conclusion. This system is by no means so feebly constructed that a case of somewhat extraordinary exertion is attended with immediate dangers. Whaf: the body, in certaiu occupations, can sometimes accomplish without any injury at all, every day illustrates by numerous and striking examples. How often and in what rapid succession, for instance, must the blacksmith swing his heavy hammer and deliver his ponderous blows. So long as appropriate nourishment and occasional rest are not lacking the muscular system does not fail in such work-men, but instead of this they often acquire in a short time a surprising firmness and endurance of limb, which moderate exertion could never yield them. Let it be emphaticall}' stated, however, that to base upon such an observation the recommendation of similar muscular exertion in gymnastic management is quite foreign to the writer’s wish, for excess must always be avoided in educational measures.

There have been gymnastic teachers, and perhaps there are still, who think that the more diversified the order of exercises in a lesson seems to be, the more harmonious is the procedure. It does indeed have a certain attraction, to be able to assert with a mysterious appearance of knowledge that this arm exercise must be balanced by this leg exercise which follows it as quickly as possible, after that swing must come this spring, after that exercise in seat this one in rest. This sounds uncommonly careful and learned, but it is purely arbitrary and fanciful, and evidently out of place therefore in dealing with an educational subject,

* A. Maul, ‘‘Die Freiuebungen.” P. 167.

Digitized by Tooele
—108—

when the question must be only only the certain attainment of proposed ends. Here the principles of logic of offer the only sure guaranty that results which can be calculated beforehand will be the outcome of our work.

SPORTS IN THE ENGLISH COLLEGE AT ETON.

Translated from the German of JARO PAWEL (Professor at the University of Vienna) by W. C. SCHAEFER.

(Concluded.)

So far we have followed Marshall as authority in the description of the^game. This game offers the strong and the skillful, the large as well as the small, great opportunity to make himself prominent in the play. Serious accidents seldom occur.

In the warmer season, through May, June and July, cricket is the favorite game. It often happens that more than a dozen cricket parties with several hundred boys, are played at once, while other students by dozens still strike the leather ball with the racket. The playgrounds are so fine and roomy that the separate parties do not in the least hinder each other. Eton’s cricket which, in general, is played according to the rules of the Maryleboire Club in London, has been changed and improved in many respects by that excellent teacher, Mr. R. A. Mitchell, to whom cricket already owes many leading players. Under his leader-ship, two cricket masters are constantly employed to drill the boys in the game.

During the Easter holidays “Fives” is the favorite game. For this game fifty separate playgrounds or spaces are required. The most skillful students play every day—often twice a day. ■ The game in itself has developed itself in a peculiar manner, so that the “play school” here has an influence on the manner of playing the game in other schools. It is played on a ground bounded by three walls, a back and two picle walls. A leather ball is knocked against the back wall with a wooden club or with the hand so as to hit a plank or beam, fastened there. The opponent has to keep the ball back. This goes on till some player misses the ball or strikes under the beam.

Heinecken gives an exact description of the game with the Eton rules in his collection of lawn games, to which we refer the reader for more information on the subject. Lawn tennis is also a favorite game, but has not developed any special way of playing.

Besides the above named games much interest is also taken in “Racquet” and “Golf.” The former is similar to “Fives,” but is usually played in a closed hall. Here too the leader has to send the ball across a line called the cut line against the back wall with a racket, whereupon the opponent knocks the ball back either after it rebounds from the wall or after the first hit against the back wall.

The game is continued in this manner until the ball is struct foul or thrown back in the wrong direction or knocked out of the grounds.

Golf is played less often. This game consists in sending a gutta percha ball, with the least possible number of blows struck with a long wooden club, from position to position and at last to the goal.

Digitized by G-ooQle
-109-

Three times a week “Beagles” is played, in which sometimes as many as 150 boys take part. The extensive grounds, with many leafy nooks and a labyrinth of paths gives a splendid opportunity for this game.

In the hot summer days much interest is taken in swimming and rowing. Especially in rowing, the Eton boys are masters. On the 4th of July of every year a rowing contest takes place between Eton, Winchester and Harrow, in which Eton has, up to the present, shown its mastery in a most brilliant manner. On this day the annual assembly of all Eton students takes place. This way of reminding the students of friendly fellowship between them is observed in most English schools and forms a distinct peculiarity of English schools.

Formerly this occasion gave rise to great festivities. This day, called “The Montan,” was celebrated with many ceremonies and brilliant festivities.

This custom began in 1551. At first this meeting was held once every three years. It was held on the “Salt hill.” To pay the expenses of the preparations and meeting the participants collected money to the amount of about £1000. What was left over this sum was given to the “Captain” who conducted the affair, to be used by him in continuing his studies in the University. The “Captain” was usually the oldest of the college students. The king, the nobility and all the higher notables of the country took part in it. George III. and Queen Caroline gave fifty guineas each, others have given twice this amount.

The present Queen has also approved of the custom and has several times favored the occasion by her presence.

The celebration always began with a great parade of the students and their guests. The procession marched several times around the College buildings and then paused in the large schoolyard on the west side “Westousyard,” where the great flag with its armorial decorations was waved with special ceremonies. From there the procession, accompanied by several bands of music, moved outward to the playgrounds and from there to the “Salt hill,” where the flag was again raised. This ended the formal part of the programme and all were now free to amuse themselves as they thought proper. The bovs scattered with their relatives and friends to the various local hotels and inns, but most of them went to the “Captain’s dinner.” After the dinner the contests began on the playgrounds. These consisted mainly of single cricket matches. Besides these contests there were a number of others for the boys, such as foot-races, sack-races and other similar sports.

Since this occasion caused a marked interruption in there regular school work and besides this, led to many troubles and improprieties on the part of the students, it was discontinued by special act of the king in 1847. The discontinuance met much opposition in the class of anti-reformers, who saw in it a great harm to the historical tradition of the land. In the first year this led to disturbance of the peace. Finally the order of discontinuance was revoked and the celebration in a milder form secured for the future. Now it is a true exhibition of the good features of the Eton institution of which the sports form a central point, much to the advantage of the students.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-110-

SCHOOL GYMNASTICS.

Cook County Normal School Envelope.

IX.

Fancy Steps.—Change and Double-change (Schottische) Steps. Pupils in flank order (single file); in ranks of two, three or more.

[Hands grasped backward, or placed on hips—in single files; hands grasped sideward with arms extended or bent, outer hands placed on hips or on back; or, hands grasped sideward with arms crossed over and under next pupils arms, in front or rear—in ranks.]

Exercises in Marching.

Change-step forward left and right alternately—begin? (1, 2, 3—4, 4, 6.) [Advance left foot (1); bring hollow of right foot to heel of left foot (2); advance left foot (3). Right same.]

Same, with leg-elevation to first movement of each step.

Same, with knee-raising.

Same, with knee-raising and leg-extension.

Same, cross-stepping.

Repeat exercises with trunk-turning left and right alternately (to left and right step).

Hopping.

Change-hopping-step. Repeat above ex., hopping to each movement.

Marching.

Double-change-step left and right alternately. (1, 2, 3, 4, 5—1, 2, 3, 4, 4.) [Advance left foot (1); place hollow of right foot to heel of left foot (2); as 1 (3); as 2 (4); as 1 (5). Right same.]

Repeat, with leg exercises, etc., as above (first movement).

Hopping.

Double-change-hopping-step. Same as above, hopping to each movement.

Variations.—(Marching and Hopping Exercises, as above.)

(Exercises are executed left and right alternately.)

1.	Step position forward and backward alternately and change step forward—begin ! 1, 2, 3, 4, 5/ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.

(Step position forward left—1! Backward left—2 ! Change-step forward left —3. 4, 5. Same right.)

2.	Leg-elevation forward and backward alternately and change step forward.

3.	Leg-elevation and step position forward alternately and change-step forward.

4.	Raise knee forward and extend leg (to step pos. or leg-elev.) and change-step forward.

5.	Leg-elevation obliquely forward and cross (bend) leg in front of stand-leg and change-step forward.

6.	Place leg forward with toe-elevation and step pos. alternately and change-step forward. (Heel-and-toe schottische.)

7.	Leg-elevation forward alternately with step pos. forward, trunk bent backward (to second position) and change-step forward.

8.	Leg-elevation forward alternately with step-position backward, trunk bent forward (second pos.) and change-step forward.

Digitized by

Google
-Ill—

9.	Step position forward with trunk bent backward and step position backward with trunk bent forward, alternately, and change-step forward.

10.	Repeat last ex., substituting leg-elevations for step positions.

These exercises may be varied by reversing the order of the first two movements, by bending the stand-leg to the first, or second, or to both movements; by substituting other movements.

The above exercises can be executed by ranks of twos (pairs) with inner hands grasped (arms bent) and outer hands placed on hips—the pairs beginning the exercise with the inner foot, alternating with the outer foot, facing (turning) outward to the inner step and inward to the outer step, (grasping outer hands to inward facings).

The exercises can also be executed in ranks of threes, the outer pupils only

executing the facings.

Pole Vaulting.

Pupils are provided with vaulting poles, 8—10 feet long, capped (pointed) at both ends. Distance, between files and ranks, 6—8 feet, preliminary class ex.).

Poles are placed next side (foot), grasped at height of shoulders.

(Exercises are executed left as well as right.)

Full-stride position backward, pole held horizontally next side—stand ! [1] [To carry, or lower the pole horizontally, the hand glides upward to grasp height of reach, the other hand ‘undergrasping’— arms outstretched (apart) at height of hips.] Bend rear knee, pushing pole backward by sharply bending the front arm, height of chest, (to lower rear end and raise front end, height of head); position—stand ! [2.] First position (stretch rear knee and front arm—stand ! [3.] Position—stand. [4.]

Repeat, stretching rear and bending forward knee, lowering forward end of pole—third movement.

Repeat, bending rear knee to first movement (proper position of pole, as above), bending forward knee to plant the pole (second movement); resume first and fundamental positions. [The pole is planted in front of the opposite foot at a distance of about 18 to 20 inches, by stretching forward and bending backward arm.]

Pupils in as many files in front or flank order, (next, or on ‘starting lines,’) as places provided. Head pupils of files begin, aligning end of files after exercise —files moving in direction of ‘starting places’ with each succession.

Stride-position backward, rear knee bent—rear arm extended backward, front arm bent height of chest—1 ! Plant pole in front of forward foot, stretching rear and bending forward knee (also stretching forward and bending backward arm)—2! Swing backward leg forward, springing off with forward foot (to carry body forward left side of pole,) alighting on both feet near or next pole—3 ! Starting position (stretch knees, pole to side)—4!

Same, with quarter and half facings toward pole.

Practice distance and height-jumps—over jumping standards.

[Practice throwing vaulting pole backward at height of flight, as well as carrying it along to alight.]

Vaulting may be practiced left and right alternately by planting ends alternately—turning poles after each landing (retaining grasps).

Digitized by CjOOQle
-112-

Putting the Shot.

Leather shot-bags; round or square stones; iron or lead balls.

Weight: 16-24 lbs.

Pupils in files in front or flank. Shot-bags or stones placed on edge of base-line.

(Exercises are executed left as well as right.)

Select preliminary class ex., as above.

Bend forward in ordinary standing position to grasp stone with both hands, resuming position with arms bent in position upward (stone held with both hands)—1! Stride-position backward, rear knee bent and body (slightly turned) leaning backward, stone resting on rear hand (arm bent upward)—2 ! Stretch rear knee and bend forward knee, pushing the stone forward vigorously, without overstepping the base-line—3 ! Position—4 !

[The stone is put for distance, height, and both combined.]

The ex. can be repeated with walking and running starts. Also, on place, preceded by trunk-swinging (turning), hopping on one (rear) foot, or on both feet alternately, with accompanying knee-bending etc.

SET OF EXERCISES

FROM WHICH TWO OBLIGATORY EXERCISES ON EACH APPARATUS WERE CHOSEN BY JUDGES ON THE EVENING PRECEDING THE CONTEST OF THE PACIFIC CIRCUIT.

Prepared and submitted by F. L. JAHN, Los Angeles, Cal.

Horizontal Bar.

Ill GRADE.

1.	Jump to hang with reversed (under) grasp ; swinging-back-up (up-rise) to free front stem-support (free-front-rest) with changing to ordinary Supper) grasp; clear circle over bar with circle swing-up to front stem-support (front-rest); back-swing to handstand and front-vault off.

2.	Jump to hang with clear (free) circle over bar; swinging upstart (tilt) to front stem-support (front-rest); flank-vault (V2 circle with both legs) to back stem-support (back-rest) flank-vault (V2 circle) to front stem-support (front-rest) drop upstart (hang-tilt) and rear vault over bar.

3.	Cross stand under bar ; jump to hang r hand forward, slow pull-up (rise) to bent arm stem-support (rest) on r arm ; change grasp 1, and bent arm stem-support on 1 arm; press up to straight arm front stem-support ; V2 turn to back stem-support (back-rest) reversed grasp; sink forward to back lever (scales, lever); sink to back-hang ; pass legs through hands (turn over, squat) to forward hang with legs in V6 lever; sink to hang and off.

4.	Jump to hang, ordinary grasp, raise legs slowly to V2 lever; slow pull-up (up-rise) to front stem-support (rest); sink slowly backward to

Digitized by C.ooQLe
113-

hang with legs in V2 lever ; slow circle-pull-up forward to front stem-support ; sink slowly forward through front lever position (hollow back) to hang and off.

11 grade.	*

1.	Side stand (parallel stand) with back to bar ; jump to hang with quick uprise (jerk-up) to front stem-support (rest); under-swing off.

2.	Hang ordinary grasp; circle swing-up forward to front stem-support (front rest); underswing and swinging upstart (tilt) to front stem-support ; underswing off.

3.	Hang with reversed (under) grasp ; swing and knee-circle-up-swing forw. r or 1 bet. hands ; V2 flank circle with other leg to back stem-support (back-rest); back-circle twice forw.-backw. (back-grinder); sink to back-hang and off.

4.	Hang ordinary grasp ; pull-up (rise) to bent arm stem-support r or 1 (front-rest); turn to bent arm back stem-support (back-rest) with wide grasp; straighten and bend r and 1 arm alternately; sink to back-hang; pass legs through hands (squat, turn-over) with insteps touching bar ; lower to hang and off.

1	GRADE.

1.	Hang ordinary grasp ; swing and side-straddle of legs in fore and backs wing ; break swing (by attempting the instep-touch) and off.

2.	Hang ordinary grasp ; change hands simultaneously to hang with reversed (under) grasp ; repeat twice ; off.

3.	Circle up-swing to front stem-support (rest) from the side-hang ordinary grasp ; circle back, forw., and underswing off.

4.	Hang ordinary grasp ; pull-up and lower ; pull-up to bent arm stem-support r or 1 ; sink to hang and off.

Parallel Bars.

in GRADE.

1.	Cross stand; circle r both legs over r bar (rear-vault) to front cross stem-support (rest); immediate V2 circle both legs 1 over 1 bar ; pumpswing with traveling (hopping) forw. with legs in V2 lever to end of bars ; momentary handstand and front vault off.

2.	From side-stand (parallel stand) outside, with slight run rear-vault over first bar to cross stem-support (rest); raise legs to V2 lever ; V2 turn r or 1 (legs in V2 lever) back-swing and pumpswing forward with traveling (hopping) to end of bars ; handstand and straddle off.

3.	Cross-stand forw.; straddle in to cross-stem-support (rest); back-swing and pumpswing forw. with shear-mount to straddle seat ; backward roll (with extended hips) to upper-arm-hang-swing ; back-up (uprise) in back-swing and rear-vault over both bars to ground (double rear-vault).

4.	Cross hang-stand forw. (pronated (? Edit.) grasp); pull-up (press) to front stem-support (rest) one swing with hollow back to shoulder-stand r or 1 ; forw. roll to cross-seat on one bar ; raise to lever on one elbow (elbow-balance); swing in and rear-vault with V2 turn inward.

Digitized by v^ooQle

/
—Hi-

II	GRADE.

1.	Cross stand in centre of bars; jump to elbow stem-support (elbow-rest) swing and up-rise (tilt-up) in backswing ; travel forward, (hop) with backswing to end of bars; somersault (swing-over) forward with bent arms to cross-stand backward.

2.	With run, jump to the swinging straight-arm-stem-support in centre of bars ; side-straddle ot legs at end of backswing, 3 times; rear-vault r or 1.

3.	Cross-stand with r hand on 1 bar (or reversed); jump to crossstem-support facing out (Y2 turn jump) travel (hop) backward to centre of bars ; shears backw. to straddle-seat in front of hands ; change (travel in) straddle seat to ends of bars ; swing in and straddle off to cross-stand backwards.

4.	Cross-stand in centre of bars ; jump to cross stem-support ; raise legs to Y2 lever ; press to shoulder-stand r or 1; sommersault (turn-over) sideways off.

1 GRADE.

1.	From cross-stand at end jump to front cross stem-support ; swing and travel (hop) forw. with backswing to centre of bars and rear-vault r or 1 oft.

2.	From cross-stand at ends jump to cross stem-support ; straddle-seat in front of hands and travel (change) in straddle-seat to centre of bars; swing-in and shears backward to straddle-seat in front of hands; repeat ; swing-in and front-vault r or 1 off.

3.	Cross stand in centre of bars ; jump to upper-arm-hang ; swing and tilt over to up-start position ; tilt up (up-start) to straddle-seat in front of hands ; rear-vault-dismount r or 1 off

4.	Cross stand in centre of bars ; take grasp and jump to cross stem-support ; travel (walk) r and 1 hand alternately to ends ; back-swing to leaning stem-support (leaning rest); bend and straighten arms (dip); swing off forw. with *4 turn to side-long side-stand.

Side Horse with Pommels.

(Abreviations: N-Neck, S-Saddle, C-Croup—All exercises with slight run.)

III	GRADE.

1.	Jump to free front stem-support (free-front-rest) with backswing; squat through to back stem-support (back-rest); flank-vault-swing (Y2 flank circle) with foreswing r or 1 and rear-vault with Y2 turn inward.

2.	Flank circle r or 1 with foreswing of one leg ; double-rear-vault-mount on N or C ; shears forw.; foreswing and flank-vault off.

3.	Straddle into back stem-support (back rest) Y2 circle backward r or 1 leg to stride stem-support (stride rest) ; shears sideways r and 1 (1 and r) squat backw. to foreswing with both legs (feint) and rear vault with Y2 turn outward.

4.	Double rear-vault mount on N or C ; shears forw. to cross-seat r or 1 ; raise legs to foreswing (feint) and screw-mount backw. to riding-seat on N or C ; backward shears dismount to cross-stand forward.

>

Digitized by CjOOQle
-1 lo-

II	GRADE.

1.	Jump to free-front stem support (free-front rest), with backs wing and screw mount backward on N and C; shears forw.; flank-vault to back stem support (back rest), squat through backward to front stem-support ; foreswing r or 1 and front vault off.

2.	Rear-vault V2 turn mount (indicate rear-vault and quick change to front-vault mount) to riding-seat on N or C ; backward shears dismount off.

3.	Jump to free-front stem support (free-front rest) with back-swing ; squat through to back stem-support (back rest) screw mount forw. to riding-seat on N or C ; backswing to leaning stem-support (leaning rest); straddle off forw. to cross-stand backward.

4.	Half-straddle-vault (wolf jump) forward with V2 turn to side-stand off side (grasp on pommels) squat through with screw-mount forward r or 1 to riding-seat on N or C ; N or C ; foreswing and rear-vault off.

I	GRADE.

1.	Squat through r or 1 with V2 turn 1 or r (stride position in S) V2 circle backward to front stem-support (off-side) jump off to stand.

2.	Jump to front stem-support ; squat through to back stem-support ; squat through to front stem-support ; kneel and knee-jump off.

3.	Jump (V2 circle and 14 turn r or 1 leg forw.) to riding-seat in S ; shears backw.; front-vault dismount.

' 4. Rear-vault r or 1.

Long Horse without Pommels.

III	GRADE.

1.	Giant leap (long-fly) with squat vault, support on N. (Body should indicate the front lever position before the squat off.

2.	Giant leap with shears backw., support on N. (Long-flv back straddle.)

3.	Giant straddle, support on C.

4.	In-straddle and shears forward to riding seat on S ; foreswing and double-rear-vault-mount on N; back-shears-dismount to cross-stand forward.

II	GRADE.

1.	Long straddle, support on N.

2.	Rear-vault with V2 turn inward, support on S.

3.	Forward roll to riding-seat on S ; backswing to leaning-stem-support (leaning-rest) ; back-shears-dismount (cut-off) to cross-stand forward.

4.	Circle r (1) leg with 14 turn inward and flank-vault 1 (r) to sidestand backward.

1 GRADE.

1.	Rear-vault r or 1 with 14 turn inward.

2.	Rear-vault-mount r or 1 to riding seat on S; front-vault-dismount.

3.	Squat to stand on C; forward off, straddle to cross-stand backward.

4.	Long fly jump to leaning stem-support (leaning rest) ; front-vault-dismount to cross-stand on side.

Digitized by CaOOQle
—116—

MIND* AND I BODY.

Published Monthly.

BY

FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO.,

“Wi*c®33usl3a._

Subscription Price, *	$	$	1.00 per Year.

4®* Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis.—Address all editorial correspondence to HANS BALLIN, Managing Editor, Southern Illinois State Normal University, Carbondale, 111.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

REMARKS AND COMMENTS.

The last legislature of Illinois has appropriated for each of the State Normals $40,000 for the erection of suitable buildings which are to contain society halls and gymnasiums. This is a start for more work in the right direction. A state law for compulsory physical training is our next aim. By the way—how do matters stand in Pennsylvania ?

The Central Executive Committee for the Promotion of Youthful Plays and Games held its annual meeting in Magdeburg. Among many topics of much interest which gave ample proof of the success of this movement, it was argued that the public was perjudiced against the foot-ball play, because it was not played properly, and the Executive Committee was of the opinion that, to overcome all objections against the game, public exhibitions of the same would be the best means.

The Southern Illinois Teachers Association that convened for its annual meeting at Metropolis, August 27, 28, 29, will pay more attention to Pedagogical Physical Training in their future meetings.

This resolution was unanimous^ and enthusiastically adopted : “Resolved, that the Southern Illinois Teachers’ Association endorse a system of physical training in the public school of the state and request the next General Assembly to make such legislation, as to ensure its compulsory introduction into all public institution supported by the State.”

The Executive Committee of the German Teachers of Gymnastics has issued through its chairman Prof. Dr. E. Angerstein a circular for information. It is addressed to the leading physiologists and physicians of the Empire. This circular mentions the renewed attacks of some physiologists, principally Lagrange and Mosso, who have denounced the German apparatus as dangerous. An answer is desired whether these criticisms are justified, and whether they want to be heeded in the future. We remind our readers of Mosso’s recent book “Physical Education for our Youth” and our review of the same in the “Turnzeitung” and in “Mind and Body.” Since, this book has been bespoken by Prof. Dr. Carl Euler and by Prof. Dr. Weber of Munich. We are anxious to have the answers of the physiologists and shall keep our readers informed.

“Forty-one years I have been engaged in practical gymnastic instruction,” says Prof. Dr. Euler in his concluding remarks about Mos-so’s book “Physical Education for our Youth,” “and I have become acquainted with all the materials in it and have certainly become quite familiar with the exercises of the parallel bars which I have tried and practiced ; I have closely watched the physical development of thousands of pupils from the

\

Digitized by CjOOQle
—117—

lowest grades.to the highest, adults, male and female teachers—and if all physiologists of Italy and other countries would unite in condemning the parallel bars on account of anatomical, physiological and other reasons, I would, founded upon my own experience, and upon those of other teachers and turners, speak with Prof, du Bois-Reymond: “If the parallel bars were not al- j ready invented, one would be obliged to do so.”	,

The closing exercises of the Summer School for Physical Training of the North American Gymnastic Union at Milwaukee were held on Friday, Aug. 9th, 1895. The afternoon exercises took place in the gymnasium of the Union at 2:30 p. m. In the evening the pupils ! of the Normal School of Gymnastics ' and different societies of the city gave a gymnastic exhibition at the West Side Turner Hall in honor of the graduates.

Cail Bruck.—7. Exhibition Foil Fencing, Miss Hattie Levy (Chicago) and Mr. Geo. Heintz, Jr.—8. Horizontal Bar, Normal School. Mr. Geo. Brosius.—9. American Patrol, “Bahn Frei” Musical Circle.—10. Horizontal and Parallel Bars, South Side Turnverein. Mr. Gus. A. Schlaefli.—n. Class Drill in Single Stick, Normal and Summer Schools. Mr. Geo. Heintz, Sr.— 12. Parallel Bars, Boy’s leaders’ Class, Turnverein “Milwaukee.” Mr. Carl Bruck.—13 Free Gymnastics, Girls’ Class, North Side Turnverein. Mr. Max Wolter. —14. a) Class Drill in Wrestling, Normal and Summer Schools. Mr. Geo. Wittich. b) A Bout, Messrs. Geo. Wittich aud Oscar Ruther.—15. Assault with Foils, Messrs. Geo. Heintz, Sr. and Geo. Heintz, Jr.—16. Pyramids on Ladders, Normal School. Mr. Geo. Brosius.

CLASS OF 1895.

Alma Witter, St. Louis, Mo.; Julia Hanson, Murphy sboro, 111.; Beulah Pope, Du Quoin, 111.; Mary Caldwell, Carbondale, 111.; Hannah Bendit, Grand Rapids, Mich.; Daisy Roberts, Corinth, 111.; John Schmidlin, Tiffin, O.; Otto Boettger, St. Louis, Mo.; Leonard Barnickel, Milwaukee, Wis.; Fred. Lorenz, Freeport, 111.; F. W. Burkhardt, St. Louis, Mo.; Oscar Ruther, St. Louis, Mo.; Karl Staiber, Scranton, Pa.; Karl Backhusen, Bloomington, 111.; Karl Heck-rich, Minneapolis, Minn.; Fritz Burger, Kansas City, Mo.; Louis Freytag, Sheboygan, Wis.; W. G. Retzer, St. Louis, Mo.; Curt Toll, Decatur, 111.; Alvin Kinder-vater, St. Louis, Mo.; Ed. Huchting, Milwaukee, Wis.

PROGRAMME OF THE AFTERNOON.

1. Piano Duet, a) Spanish Dance, Moszkowski; b) Turkish March, Beethoven. Miss Mathilde Dapprich and Mr. Carl Betz.—2. a) Tactics, Mr. Fred. Lorenz ; b) Fancy Steps, Mr. F. W. Burkhardt.—3. Essay, “The Summer School for Physical Training,” Miss Mary Caldwell.—4. a) Free Gymnastics, Miss Hannah Bendit; b) Indian Clubs, Mr. John Schmidlin.—5. Soprano Solo, “Snow Flakes,” Miss Julia Hanson.— 6. a) Wand Exercise, Miss Alma Witter: b) Dumbbell Exercise, Miss Mary Caldwell.—7. Fancy Steps, Mr. Otto Boettger.—8. Class Drill in Foil Fencing, Summer School. Mr. Geo. Heintz, Jr.—o. Essay, “Physical Training in the Public Schools,” Miss Hannah Bendit.—10. Apparatus Work, Men’s Class, Horizontal Bar, Mr. Fred. Lorenz; Ladies’ Class, Vaulting Horse, Miss Beulah Pope.—11. Piana Solo, “Grande Polka de Concert,” Morey. Miss Daisy Roberts.—12. Class Drill in Single Stick, Summer School. Mr. Geo. Heintz, Jr.—12. Apparatus Work, Men’s Class, Parallel Bars, Mr. John Schmidlin. Ladies’ Class, a) Horizontal Ladder, Miss Daisy Roberts; b) Rings, Miss Julia Hanson.—14. Song Reigen, “The Miller’s fioy,” Ladies’ Class.—15. Awarding of Certificates.—16. Song, “America,” Summer School.

PROGRAMME OF THE EVENING.

1. Around the Metropolis, “Bahn Frei” Musical Circle.—2. Class Drill in Foil Fencing, Normal and Summer Schools. Mr. Geo. Heintz, Sr.—3. Parallel Bars and Vaulting Horse, Turnverein “Vorwaerts.” Mr. Hans Rasmussen.—4. Class Drill in Sparring, Normal and Summer Schools. Mr. Geo. Wittich.— 5. Tactic Exercises (Reigen) and Fancy Club Swinging, Normal School. Mr. Geo Brosius.—6. Club Swinging, Girls’ Class, Turnverein “Milwaukee.” Mr.

“The millionaire children of New York were born in a happy era, what will be known in the future not so much as the fin de siecle but as the physical culture period. For these pets of fortune nothing is left undone that modern thought, invention, and research have devised for the improvement of the race ; and, unless cares and culture of the body go for naught, they must develop into magnificient specimens of manhood and womanhood. One of the prettiest sights in Central Park on a pleasant morning is a riding class of these happj' children in the care of their woman teacher, who, herself, in attendance on her different classes, rides from forty to fifty miles daily. These children go to the Berkeley Gymnasium regularly, little tots of 4 or 5 even being sent to the classes, and they ride bicycles and are encouraged to take up every outdoor sport. The}' are taught to swim and to row, to drive as well as ride, and their strong physique and superb complexions already prove the value of the regimen.Demorest Magazine. Truly, the children of the upper tendoms need a sound regimen to counteract their enervated mode of living. But, they do not—constitute the mass of the people that furnish the brawn and brain to a nation. There are millions of children absoluteh' void of any physical training. They have no opportunity to attend the schools of a shoddy aristocracy, but they have full access to our public schools, and these should provide for them.

Digitized by

Google
—118—

fiGAMES PLAYS.P

C. C. N. S. Envelope.

Nos. 47—49.

Reprinted from C. J. Kroh’s Program of Exercises and Description of Games, Cincinnati, 1887.

Catch-Ball.

A number of boys or girls form a circle with about one arm’s length distance between each, and pass the hand-ball— a rubber foot-ball or leather hand-ball of a weight adapted to the strength of the player—quickly in an order first determined, either to the left or right. The player first missing the ball by not catching it with both hands before it touches the floor, steps into the circle and throws it to one of the players forming the circle.

The players forming the circle pass or throw the ball from one to the other in such a manner as to make it difficult for the player inside the circle to get the same. Should the ball be caught by the inside player, (who can run about within the circle only,) then the player who threw the ball last, or, the player who missed it, as may have been determined, takes the place of the inside player, and j in turn seeks to get the ball.

The play may be begun in a prescribed osition which must not be given up y the players forming the circle. Or, a player may be allowed to leave his position when the ball is tossed in his direction. The circle however should be preserved throughout the game.

Any number of players, from ten to thirty, may engage in this play, requiring skill in tossing on the one side, and endurance in ‘following up’ the ball on | the other.

Lock and Key.

From a number of players, standingin double rows, or in a double circle, face to face, with hands of pairs grasped, select a leader and two or more players who are to represent the keys to unlock the grasp of the opposite players. The players selected (keys) attempt to unfasten the lock (part the hands) of any pair they may select, using their strength

without any unnecessary accompaniment of rudeness. If successful, places are exchanged with the player who offered the least resistance. If unsuccessful, other locks are tried, the player acting as key endeavoring in his selection of pairs to part the players who are least watchful, or in a measure unprepared.

The play may be conducted in such a manner that the pairs grasp hands only upon the approach of the players acting as keys.

The leader of the game may at his own discretion command “change!” when all players take a step sideward right or left to confront the next player in the opposite row. The players representing keys may during such a change of places endeavor to obtain a place in a row or circle. The change of places may be preceded by an ‘about facing’ right or left, which generally results in some players stepping in the wrong direction, giving an opportunity to step in.

Group Play.

In this game any multiple of three, four, or five, can engage. The players having been divided into corresponding groups, march (if five groups for instance have been formed) to the four corners of a large square, one of the groups forming in the centre of the square. The position of each of the five groups must be sharply defined by chalk lines on the floor, i. e., for each group a house (small square) should be drawn, within the walls of which the resp. group players must be stationed. Any one of pla3rers now leaves his group and proceeds toward the centre group, whereupon a player from any other group immediately seeks to fill the place made vacant by the first player. Other players now make similar attempts to fill the vacancies ensuing in the different groups. Meanwhile the player who began the games, bestirs himself to get a place in one of the squares. Should the game at any time come to a halt because all the squares are filled, then the last player to enter a square selects the next leader.

The game is readily understood with a little practice and may be changed in a number of ways, the players walking, hopping, or running from place to place, etc.

A

Digitized by G.ooQle
ATHLETICS * AND i SPORTS.

A Record. — From a Liverpool correspondent we learn that Mr. E. Batters-by, a well-known Liverpool gymnast and Hon. Sec. of the N. L. Gym., ran from Llanberis to the summit of Snowdon in 53 minutes and back again in 38. This is a “record” for the journey, which is about 10 miles all in. — Ex.

Paris, Montmartre. — The Committee of the four French Gj’mnastic Clubs L’Ancienne, La Jeunesse, La Liberate and Le Reveil, who have organized an International Gymnastic Competition, request us to state that this meeting, which was originally fixed for June 23rd, will now take place on Sept. 1st at the Velodrome in Paris. A large number of prizes will be offered to the competitors, who must send in their entries not later than Aug. 4th. Mr. E. A. Bican, 8 Rue Papillon, Paris, is the Secretary of the Committee. — Ex.

Bohemia. — The Gymnastic Festival held last month at Prague, to which a large French squad were invited and most cordially feted, appears to have been a grand success, for not only did between 4,300 and 4,500 gymnasts take active part in the Mass Exercises, but a crowd estimated at 45,000 to 50,000 spectators witnessed this unique sight. The Extension Exercises were executed in splendid time, and made a grand impression on the onlookers, as did also the fine bearing and splendid discipline of the gymnasts. — Ex.

The Chinese as Athletes. — A correspondent to The Turner reports the following interesting description of Chinese athletic abilities. “We arrived at Canton just in time to witness a military trial of strength in one of the military halls. A squad of soldiers were practising shooting with the bow and arrow, as this is still one of the modes of defence of the modem Chinamen. The bows are about 6 ft. long, and the strings are made of cotton about the thickness of a finger, so that it requires a deal of practice to handle them. Another squad of soldiers was practising the strangest exercises imaginable with iron halberds weighing IV2 cwt., and others had to lift a huge stone block weighing 390 lb. to the height of their chest. Those who are successful in these

feats are promoted and obtain an increase of pay. Some of the men were fine powerful and martial looking fellows. — Ex.

A Pedestrian Tour Round the World. — The Deutsche Turnzeitung reports that two Americans, J. Throner and G. Kogel, have made a wager for 6,000 | dollars againts 1,000 dollars to walk round the earth in two years. They are not allowed to carry any weapons, watches, or compass, and must, whenever possible, walk on foot. Of the estimated 12,700 miles they have already traversed 4,000 miles, walking at the rate of about an average of 30 miles a day, and have done up to 59 miles a day. They generally walk 18 miles between 5 a. m. and dinner time, and another 15 miles after 2 p. m., their food being very plain and they drink only water, coffee, and tea. Throner reports that he has, so far, worn out seven pairs of boots and his friend five pairs ; that they have killed upwards of 200 snakes with their walking-sticks, and that they were often attacked, while walking during the night, by wolves, wild cats, and dogs. For s6ven weeks they had to camp out, as they could obtain no shelter. — Ex.

After Sept. 1. all students of Harvard desiring to enter as competitors in athletic contests will be required to give evidence of their ability by making the following strength tests, in addition to the regular physical examinations : Candidates for the university crew and ; fpotball team and weight-throwers will be expected to make a total strength test of 700 points. Candidates for the class crews and football teams and gymnastic, wrestling and sparring contests will be expected to make a total strength test of 600 points. Candidates for the university and class baseball nines and lacrosse teams and track and field events will be expected to make a total strength test of 500 points. These points will be reckoned as follows : The number of kilos lifted with the back and legs straight, and the number of kilos lifted with the legs bent, added to the strength of the grip in the right and left hands, expiratory power as tested bj' the manometer, and one-tenth of the weight in kilos multiplied by the number of times that the person can raise his weight by dipping between the parallel-bars and pulling his weight up to

Digitized by LjOOQle
—120—

his chin on the rings. Where the strength test falls below the desired standard the capacity of lungs will be taken into account in summing up the condition. The objects of these strength tests are threefold : First, to stimulate the student to take regular physical exercise in order to keep himself in good condition; second, to protect the student from injury where his zeal for athletics is in excess of his ability ; third, to protect athletics from the imputations made against them in consequence of the injuries received by persons who are n,ot strong enough to engage in them. —Ex.

The Brussels Gymnastic Festival, held on July 20th tQ 23rd, was, we regret to say, almost completely spoilt by an incessant downpour of rain which marred all the elaborate outdoor festivities and decorations, few others than the gymnasts, who were told off to take part in the “Mass Exercises,” braving the drenching rain; and the procession through the town, which was to have been attended by thousands, consisted of only about 1,100 or 1,200 gymnasts, with 72 banners, when they started from the Grand Place. The principal clubs that were represented were some German, French and Dutch clubs. The Mass Exercises, which were very simple, had to be carried out under a downpour of rain and were thus greatly spoilt. The special performance in the evening in the Cirque Royal was especially noteworthy and well worth seeing, the programme opening with a capital performance with wands by a squad of 38 deaf and dumb from Bercham St. Aga-the ; the Ladies’ Club Volkskring, 24 in number, from Antwerp, showed some very fine Wand Exercises, followed by men on the Horizontal Bar, Parallel Bars and Jumping ; the Brussels’ squad shone principally by their Parallel Bar work, the Brabant squad on the Rings, and the Reims squad received hearty applause for their very effective groups of Pyramids on the Parallel Bars, so did also the French squad, “En Avant” from Paris, for some magnificent Pyramids on the floor. After these performances the prizes were distributed to the successful competitors, who had competed on the Monday morning at the Gymnasium in the Place Rouppe, the King of Belgium favouring them there with a long visit, and taking, apparently, a deal of interest in their work. We hear that the Belgian Gym-

nastic Federation now comprises 130 clubs with a total membership of 11,500. - Ex.

A representative of the Associated Press has made inquiries into the sensational reports circulated in the United States by a news agency, in spite of the fact that their accuracy has been repeatedly denied by persons in authority here, to the effect that the London Athletic Club was hesitating about sending over a team to meet the New York Athletic Club team. The result is that the Associated Press is once more authorized to deny these reports, which are nothing more than the invention of sensation mongers. It is true that there has been some little difficulty regarding the formation of the London Athletic Club’s team, but there has never been any question raised which would in any way suggest that the English athletes intended to withdraw from their agreement to meet the Americans. The only difference of opinion was one which prevailed respecting the men to be selected.

The home members objected to such men as the Irish athletes being included, contending that all the members of the London Athletic Club team should be Englishmen and of the same social status. A meeting of the committee of the London Athletic Club was then held, and there was a lively discussion, during which it was claimed that the New York Athletic Club was recruiting its best men outside of New York, such as Tom O’Connor, Jewett, and Crumm, in order to meet the London Athletic Club. The upshot of the meeting was that they decided to include in the London Athletic Club’s team the best men obtainable in the various branches of athletics, no matter what their position in life, and that is all there was in the sensational story engineered by a news agency, which claimed that it was exceedingly doubtful whether or not the meeting would be brought about. There never was a doubt in the matter. —Ex.

LETTER BOX.

R. P.—“Courteous requests for information” will find a courteous reply by the editor of this Jourqal. Hut some sort of “courteousness” is only too often the mantle for foul play. Who desires to champion its cause, is welcome to it; we also can “whack heads,” if necessary, and it may appear to those “whacked" crude.

Digitized by C-ooQle