MIND AND BODY

Vol. 39	DECEMBER	1932	No.	408

HENRY PANZER

After a full and vigorous day in which he taught his classes, discussed policies with the president of a neighboring college, consummated plans for a demonstration of gymnastics in Buffalo, Henry Panzer died, quite suddenly of a heart attack, the evening of October 17, 1932. During a lifetime of activity, and as president of Panzer College of Physical Education and Hygiene, he planned and worked and hoped. On that day still planning, he left his college, closing the door behind him, never to return.

Events fashion great men, and if there is any measure of truth in this statement, the active, busy career of Henry Panzer singled him unerringly for success. He was bom in Solothum, Switzerland, on- September 19, 1868 and received his education in the gymnasium and pro-gymnasium of Biel, Switzerland. Upon graduation, he attended the Normal School of Gymnastics at Karlsruhe, Germany, from which he graduated in 1895. There he studied under Alfred Maul, one of Europe’s outstanding leaders in the field of physical education. He continued his studies at the University of Bern, Switzerland, and graduated from that institution in 1897 with the degree of M. G. [Maitre de Gymnastique]. He came to America in 1899 and attended the Posse School of Gymnastics in Boston and received the diploma in 19v)4. Nor was Iv'r. Panzer ever content with what he had achieved. He studied continually until the time of his death. For three summers from 1928 to 1930 inclusive, he studied in both the Bode and Loges Schools of Rhythmical Gymnastics, and was thus instrumental in introducing Rhythmical Gymnastics to America and disseminating its philosophy to American schools.

Mr. Panzer’s experience was varied. For six years he taught gymnastics in the public schools of Switzerland, and during this time he also served as director of courses for teachers of public schools and leaders of gymnastic societies for the Swiss Government. After his arrival in the United States, he established and directed a private gymnasium for educational and medical gymnastics in Carnegie Hall in New York City. He also was director of recreation in the community centers of New York City, instructor in gymnastics at the Swiss-American Gymnastic Society of Hudson County and for ten years taught educational and medical gymnastics and lectured on kinesiology at the Summer School of Physical Education at Chautauqua, New York. In 1918, he came to the Newark Normal School of Physical Education as its director, and in 1919, he was made its

Digitized by t^-ooQle
194

president. After the schcol had been moved to East Orange where it occupied beautiful quarters of its own, and after the curriculum had been changed from a two-year normal course to a four-year college degree course, the name of the school was changed to the Panzer College of Physical Education and Hygiene in his honor.

In the field of physical education, he was an international figure and rendered international service. In 1928, on the occasion of the Olympic Games in Amsterdam, Mr. Panzer served on the American Olympic Gymnastic Committee and compiled the free-standing Olympic Team Exercises for the American Gymnastic Team.

Mr. Panzer served as president of the Jury in the Gymnastics competitions, and as adviser to the Technical Committee at the Olympic Games held in Los Angeles in 1932.

He was also a member of the standing Gymnastic Committee of the Amateur Athletic Union, a member of the Committee appointed by the Swiss Government to study sports in England, and delegate to the Conference of the International Gymnastic Association, Luxembourg, Europe, 1930.

Mr. Panzer had the satisfaction of receiving some measure of recognition for his work. He received two diplomas for merit from the International Olympic Games Committee, the Award of Merit from the New Jersey State Association, and the fellowship in physical education from the American Physical Education Association for outstanding and distinguished service in the cause of physical education.

When he left his college and his work on the seventeenth day of October, there was much that he could have looked back upon, were he so inclined, and much for which he could have said: “I have done well”.

IN MEMORIAM TO HENRY PANZER

WHEREAS: Our dear colleague, Henry Panzer, who for twenty-eight years was a member and for eight of these years the president of this, our Association, has been taken unexpectedly from our ranks by the grim reaper, Death; and

WHEREAS: The deceased, through his long and active membership, his unbounded interest and his intelligent participation, has contributed much to the life and success of the organization; and

WHEREAS: He, by his many acts of kindness, friendship and loyalty has endeared himself to his fellow-members, who appreciated his sterling qualities and tempered judgment; and

WHEREAS: Henry Panzer was a past master of our profession as indicated by his international renown as a teacher, organizer, lecturer, author and comooser; and

WHEREAS: He led an active, useful life, uncalculatingly benefiting his fellowmen and the communities with which he was associated;

Digitized by UjOOQle
195

Be It Therefore Resolved: That we, the members of the Association cf Directors of Physical Education of N. Y. and N. J., bear mute testimony to the esteem and admiration we had for him and trust that these deep felt expressions may tend to assuage the grief of the survivors; and

Be It Further Resolved: That in his demise we have lost not only a very able and highly respected member and friend, but also a man of profound knowledge and exceptional qualities, worthy of emulation; and

Be It Further Resolved: That these resolutions be spread on our minutes and a copy thereof be sent to Panzer College and to the bereaved family.

Date Nov. 2nd. 1932.

Mathias H. Macherey, Herman Seibert,

Karl D. Hofer.

Can. We Afford It?

Ernst Thoma.

Teacher of Physical Education, .Washburn School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Glenn Frank in his recent “Six Tenets for a modern creed of Education” enumerates as the first one, “The new education must help men to safeguard and to sustain that rich physical vitality that gives tone and tang to living.” To students of education this sounds rather trite. Many the leader in educational thought who had come to practically the same conclusion. Health should be the first objective in education. There can be no doubt that physical and health education are and always have been of basic importance. But not always have these subjects received the proper emphasis in practice, and not always has education produced the desired and hoped for results. Prominent heights in civilization have been reached only where education has given due attention to physical and health development and maintenance.

We love to think that we have achieved a new height in civilization, but our symptoms indicate that the altitude does not agree so well with us and there seems to be some danger of dizzily crashing into the ever-yawning abyss. We hope, of course, that the threatening “next world war” will be averted. But another menace, no less deadly, looms in the offing.

An unprecedented development of science has made it possible to produce, with little or no labor, not only all the necessities, but also a superabundance of luxuries undreamed of by any previous generation. A few hours of work per day by all able-bodied adults is all that is necessary to supply all wants. Though at present some are doing more than their share, while others can't find anything to do, and likewise, some find themselves unable to consume their share, while others find themselves in need of

Digitized by v^.ooQle
196

the bare necessities of life, there can be little doubt that this unequal and evidently unfair distribution of work and its product will of necessity be adjusted and the great waste of the present day competitive production and distribution be eliminated, thereby still further reducing the number of necessary working hours. But what makes the outlook appalling instead of pleasant is the problem of what shall we do with our leisure? How will we maintain our physical, mental and moral health and vitality?

Physiology teaches us that nothing will degenerate us quicker and more completely than luxuries and inactivity. History teaches us that nothing degrades a nation more thoroughly and brings about its downfall more surely and quickly than too much wealth and leisure. Wealth and leisure—in the guise of blessings, we have both of these in abundance. We cannot escape them; we cannot drive them out; we cannot ignore them. There is but one thing to do; we must make them our allies. And that is primarily the task of education.

Physical and health education in particular must shoulder a considerable part of this burden. Better than ever before must we develop in our children and youth* a habit of physical activity, a love and craving for physical effort which will carry over into adult life to induce them to make up the deficiency caused by insufficient manual labor. Better than ever before must we equip them with the proper attitudes and ideals in play activities so that these will not degenerate into something akin to the ancient Roman gladitorial contests. Our nation-wide craving to sit in stadia, bigger and better than those of old Rome, indicates an ominous tendency.

And better than ever before must we teach health. The ever increasing density of population, with ever increasing chances of infection, and the increase of nervous disorders and crime, demand a better teaching of physical, mental and moral hygiene. We may not know all there is to know about the causes of abnormal and anti-srcial behavior, but we do know that a healthy activ ely employed individual is not as likely to go wrong as the under-developed, dissatisfied, pflegmatic person.

The immediate demand for more sanatoria and insane asylums and more reformatories and penitentiaries cannot be ignored. We must pay the price. But mopping the floor without stopping the leak leads to nowhere. The logical place to look for the leak is in education. We have only to consider that all the inmates and those who ought to be inmates of these institutions have gone through a course of education, as have also those guilty of contributing to downfall.

While it would be absurd to blame education, or the lack of it, for all the existing evils, or to imagine that the proper kind and amount of education would promptly cure all of them, it must be conceded that the only hope for a prophylactic lies in this direction. If we still believe that education can modify human behavior, and nothing has occurred to make us falter in that faith, we cannot escape the conviction that our only hope

Digitized by v^ooQle
197

for ultimate relief lies in our schools. Not to do all possible to improve these is only postponing a task that is inevitable if we would preserve the race and keep civilization on an upward path.

The increasing cost ofj education that some of our so-called statesmen and misguided taxpayers are so worried about, is in reality one of the most encouraging features in the present picture, for it indicates that the populace is taking a lively interest in the race between “Education and Calamity” and intends that Education shall not lag behind. In view of the fact that the Nation’s bills for luxuries exceeded those for education, any one claiming that education is being over-emphasized should be regarded with suspicion.

With every increase in population, with every new application of science, with every new invention or discovery, our civilization and in consequence our lives, are becoming more complex. This makes it necessary that the educational system be constantly improved and readjusted to enable it to successfully guide this ever changing civilization in the right channels and adapt the individual to it.

Of necessity it is becoming more and more diversified and • complicated, and to expect it to cost no more today than it did yesterday is unreasonable. Another factor contributing to the increase in school expenditures is the increase in school population due to the introduction and steady expansion of adult education and the popular recognition of the fact that child and youth labor is neither necessary nor desirable any more. Then too, the schools have to take over many functions formerly performed in the homes by the parents. And the present tendency is for parents to demand still more relief from direct responsibility by increasing the school’s load.

A four-cylinder engine will not pull the load intended for an eight cylinder one and an eight cylinder engine is bound to consume more gas than a four-cylinder one no matter how careful and expert the driver. We cannot go back to the four-cylinder engine machine. To retreat is impossible even if we wanted to do so. We must go full speed ahead. The Nation’s future needs the safeguard that only the bast possible schools can give. Nothing else matters quite so much and no amount of money is too much, if it will imorove this vital function. Nor will it ever be different. Even if the cay should come when money ceases to dominate and control every detail of our lives, education would still be our most important business and demand our first consideration. And why not? What else in the world yields greater returns, for time and effort or money spent, to us and posterity than our schools?

The richest country on earth cannot afford to have anything less than the best schools.

Digitized by v^ooQle
198

Physical Education for Mentally Retarded

Pupils

W. Herbert Grigson

Thirty years ago most teachers and educational authorities believed that all pupils were alike. They taught all pupils the same subjects in the same way. Today we know that all pupils are not alike, but that they differ in many ways. In school work we may divide them into three groups; Retarded, Average, and Superior. The average group is by far the largest. Of the total number the mentally retarded and mentally superior groups range from 5 to 15 each. Very little work has been done with the mentally superior group because it has not presented much of a social problem, either at school age, or later in life.

A great deal might be said about the characteristics of retarded pupils, the different types of retardation, and the causes of retardation, but you will learn m^re about retarded pupils by seeing the demonstration which v ill follow my talk than by listening to the few words I would have time to say in this brief introduction.

There are, however, a few points regarding the relation of retarded pupils to the school, and the problem of teaching physical education to them, which should be considered briefly. The three main points are: School Proficiency, Objectives, and Methods and Practises.

With reference to school proficiency, we will note some of the conditions which affect our work in physical education. A large number of retarded pupils have a marked “lack of v cob-ulary”. They read very poorly and write worse.' Accordingly, commands must consist of short easily understood words; and they must always be the same. In hygiene very little reading material can be used, and no written tests of any extensive nature can be given.

The physical ability of these pupils is considerably inferior to that of average pupils. They cannot run as fast, jump as far, or throw as far. Seme of them have low vitality, glandular disturbances, nervous disorders, and postural defects that keep them from doing good work in physical education. Others have peculiarities of gait.

As to their habits, we note that mentally retarded pupils do not take good care of their personal appearance, but often have dirty hands, fingernails, faces, shoes, and clothes; uncombed hair; and no necktie. Some are apt to give way to rage or anger on slight provocation, and few seem able to resist pushing, hitting or pinching when they are not engaged actively in < t er

Address before the Therapeutic Section, A. P. E. A., Philadelphia Convention, 1932.

Digitized by Google
199

ways. It is unwise to put temptation in their way by leaving articles of value around that can be taken easily.

Our second main point deals with objectives. Socialization is the main objective of all education. It is of especial importance in the case of mentally retarded pupils since they exhibit peculiarities of behavior and are not able to adjust themselves so easily as the average and superior pupils. These pupils need to learn to respect authority, to be honest, and to get along with pupils of their own group and with pupils of other groups. They need to be taught to attend to their personal appearance.

To teachers of physical education, health is always an important objective in the education of retarded pupils. As a rule these pupils come from homes where there is little money for food or clothing. Their parents and associates know little cr nothing about hygiene. Every health habit or attitude they w ill ever have must be developed through the influence of the school. As the livelihood of these pupils after they leave school vill depend largely upon the strength and health of their bodies rather than upon their mentality, our health objectives should include, medical inspection, treatment and removal of remedial defects, a program of vigorous physical education activities, and a carefully planned course in personal hygiene.

Most pupils who have normal mentality find satisfaction and happiness in life because their endeavors in various activities quite frequently meet with success. But subnormal pupils are not successful in regular school work, and they fail in games and contests with average and superior children, as w ell as in many of the little projects they attempt around the home. So I feel it is right to include happiness among our objectives. We must plan our games, stunts, and other activities in such a manner that these pupils can succeed often enough to get satisfaction and happiness. We must treat them in a sympathetic and understanding manner.

Let us see now how we may attain these objectives through our work in physical education. The methods and practises which are commonly used by most good teachers for normal pupils are important, but there are certain additional special or applied interpretations which are necessary in special education.

The number of pupils in regular classes commonly ranges from 30 to 40, the exact number depending on local conditions. But in classes for mentally retarded pupils, it is best not to have more than 20 pupils, because each pupil is a problem and the teacher is expected to give individual attention to each one. In some schools there are as few as 6 or 8 in a class. While this may be a help in academic instruction, it is not suited to physical education where larger numbers are necessary for games and contests.

As these pupils do not learn quickly, it is important to give much drill in teaching new activities. They do not like drill, however, and become very restless when it is extended. Accordingly, frequent short periods of drill should be used. Wallin

Digitized by LjOOQle
200

says, “Drill should be ‘sugar-coated' by the use of games, by the introduction of a playful element and the element of contest, by the use of rhythm, and by appeal to the instinctive. interests and natural incentives”.

One of the methods of good pedagogy consists of starting with the known and adding new facts that are related, giving a gradual progression from the known to the unknown, from the simple to the complex. In teaching our physical education activities to mentally retarded pupils it is essential that we start at a point that is low enough, and then progress very slowly. We must begin with activities which are within the experience and ability of the pupil. It would be unwise at the outset to ask a pupil to do a running dive [knee high] and a forward roll It would be far better first to have him do a simple roll, which we are pretty sure is within his experience and ability. Then a roll over a boy who is kneeling down; then a roll over a boy preceded by a step or two; and then with a short run.

The use of many concrete examples is urged in this work. The teacher must demonstrate a great deal, and the class will follow by imitation in stunts, apparatus, dance steps, etc. In hygiene it is of even greater importance. These pupils have little visual imagery, and will, therefore, remember a hygiene lesson much longer if some definite object is used. If the lesson, for. example, should be about the feet, and the teacher demonstrates with a pair of shoes the relation of shoes to the hygiene of the feet,—the interest of the class will be held, and a more permanent impression made. Cities having divisions of visual education find great value in slides, and movies for these pupils. Charts, pictures, drawings, and other objective material can also be used to great advantage,,

The first concern of any teacher is pupil control. No instruction can be given without order. In classes of mentally retarded pupils this is often a difficult problem. If, however, we have a definite approach to every activity and use that same approach'every time, we will find that habit will soon aid us. Have the c’avs line up in a certain place every time; march around the room the same way, and open order for free exercises in the same manner. . When it comes to the. game, or exercises on apparatus, use the same preparatory procedure for that activity every time. Begin the lesson promptly and then keep the class busy. Do not be too particular about perfect formations and exercises at first. When the class stands still it begins to give trouble.

The program must be interesting to secure attention and vigorous participation. We can make most of our activities interesting by planning them so they will be within the pupil’s experience, and within his ability to perform with credit.

Lesson planning is of more importance than most physical education .teachers think. It is very necessary to have a yearly and monthly skeleton outline, and a detailed weekly and daily outline. Some reasons for lesson planning are: The teacher must

Digitized by v^ooQle
201

keep the class busy all of the time, the activities must be planned so as to develop gradually, the activities must fit the needs of the class, and all of the various activities must be in the right proportion when the whole program is considered.

When large numbers of mentally retarded pupils are gathered into one school, it is possible to organize classes that are homogeneous as to age, intelligence quotient, and sex. In a group of 25 or 30 pupils there may be boys and girls from 8 to 16 years of age, and from 50 to 90 in I.Qt But in a group of 200 or 300 there can be a class of older boys, and a class of older girls, a class of low I.Q. and low chronological age, a class of low I.Q. and high chronological age, a class of high I„Q. and high chronological, and a class of high I.Q. and Low chronological age. It is easier to plan for homogeneous groups, it is easier to teach homogeneous groups, and pupils in homogeneous groups get more out of school work.

Squad leaders can be trained and used with the older groups in games, field and track, apparatus [where there is little danger], and hygiene inspection activities. They must, however, always be under supervision.

Exhibitions are a regular part of the yearly program of physical education in many school systetns. There are several values such as: opportunities for expression of the pupil’s ability; motivation of a program; publicity; financial benefits, etc. However, it seems to me that unless such exhibitions take very simple form they are of no value in schools for mentally retarded pupils. The whole routine of the school is upset, which is a serious matter in this type of school; the pupils become tired of the incessant drill, the teachers become cross, and instead of a happy expression of a school’s play spirit, a nervous tension is found, and pupils and teachers alike are relieved when it is over.

If, instead, a simple play day is planned, in which the pupils give a dance, a game, stunts, and exercises, which are a part of their regular work and require no special preparation, a really happy time will result.

These pupils respond to music and the use of rhythm in any formal work such as exercises, drills, or dancing. Both boys and girls like simple clogging, and the younger pupils like singing games and folk dances.

While the topic “teacher characteristics” might not be classed properly under “Methods & Practises”, it is too important to leave out. To be well fitted to teach these pupils a teacher should:

First: Be able to demonstrate and teach stunts, apparatus, games,-dances, field and track, etc.

Second: Be enthusiastic

Third: Have patience, and not expect too much at first

Fourth: Be firm Fifth: Be kind

Sixth: Have a knowledge of special class problems

I	could spend a long time discussing the curriculum, but I

Digitized by v^ooQle
202

shall only read the activities which I have found valuable in this work and comment briefly on their value.

1.	Tactics: Good for posture. Good for cooperation in squad

groups. I have found that nearly all retarded pupils like marching drills.

2.	Free exercises: We might better have stunts, which are more

interesting and will be done more vigorously. Formal exercises, however, are good for giving exercise to a large number in a small area.

3.	Track and Field Activities: Very good, since they consist of

so many natural self-testing activities.

4.	Apparatus exercises: Interest is high. Chances for success can be governed.

5.	Games: Very good. Interest is high, and there is vigorous par-

ticipation. The mind is more active. Social lessons are possible.

6.	Dancing: Is good for certain groups, as clogging for older boys,

folk and simple aesthetic dances for older girls, and folk dances and singing games for younger boys and girls.

7.	Hygiene: This is too big a topic to even start to discuss here. It is very important.

8.	Extra-Curricular Activities: Very good. In the mind of the pupil they give the special school the same standing as other schools. They afford added opportunity to teach social lessons and they give a chance for the pupil to experience the feeling of success in a definite way. Such activities may consist of:

Intra-school leagues and games [which are hard to organize].

Inter-school contests. These should be with other schools of the same type, which will give an even chance for winning.

City-wide contests—such as swimming, field and track and games. Here again the contests should be with similar groups.

Milestones in Physical Education in Chicago Schools

William Kopp.

In 1863 the earliest attempts were made to introduce physical education in the Chicago public schools. Two years later [1885) the Chicago Tum-Gemeinde appointed a committee of its members to work toward this end.^ This committee, in order to show that the work could be carried on successfully in the schools, asked the Board of Education to allow Mr. Henry Suder, teacher of physical education in the Tum-Gemeinde, to demonstrate some of the work with his classes in the Ogden School.

Digitized by CjOOQle
203

This request was granted and shortly after the members of the Board of Education visited the school and observed classes of boys and girls of the Turn-Gemeinde in action in class-rooms and corridors. Following their visit, a committee on physical education was appointed by the Board. At its first meeting in October, 1885, the committee recommended the appointment of a teacher of physical education for the purpose of introducing the subject in the grammar grades of four schools. In January, 1886, the work began with Mr. Benry Suder as the teacher.

Upon the earnest request of the principals and teachers of the respective schools and of the parents and physicians who had seen the work during the school term, physical education was introduced during the following year in the grammar grades of all elementary schools. One supervisor and eight teachers were appointed to carry on the work. The forty-eight grammar schools were divided into eight districts, and a teacher of physical education was assigned to each district. The teachers visited each school twice a week.

In 1886, the first manual for physical education was written by the supervisor and distributed to the schools.

By request of the principals, physical education was introduced into the primary grades in January 1889. Four additional teachers were appointed to conduct the work.. Three months later, by request of District Superintendent, Mrs. Ella Flagg Young, physical education was also introduced in three high schools of the city; viz.. The North Division, The South Division, and The West Division Bigh Schools. The first teacher was a man who had taught several years in the elementary schools as a teacher of physical education.

The first gymnasium in connection with a public school in Chicago, and as far as I know in the country, was the gymnasium in the North-West Division Bigh School, now Murray F. Tuley High School. It was erected in the year 1890-91. The first elementary school to be provided with a gymnasium was the Franklin School, which was built in 1896.

In 1910, upon the recommendation of the Superintendent, women teachers of physical education were appointed to teach the girls. Up to that time boys and girls had. been taught by men.

The first high school to be provided with a gymnasium and swimming pool, for boys and girls, was the Byde Park High School, built in 1911.

In 1915 Optional Military Training was introduced in the high schools.

The Chicago Public School Athletic League was organized by the Board of Education in 1920 to promote athletics and games. An assistant supervisor in charge of athletics was appointed in the same year.

In 1923, Mr. Henry Suder, Supervisor of Physical Education, resigned after having served in that position for 37 years.

The Bureau of Physical Education was reorganized in 1925

Digitized by CjOOQle
204

with a Director of Physical Education and three supervisors as his assistants. One supervisor [a woman] was placed in charge of girls’ activities, a second in charge of boys’ activities, and a third [a Major in the United States army] in charge of military training in high schools.

The teachers of physical education have recently extended their work to include health instruction in practically all schools.

Another function of the Bureau is the instruction and guidance of the School Boy Patrols, who are charged with the safety of children on their way to and from school.

In 1928, there were 212 teachers of physical -education in 302 elementary schools, 32 teachers in 15 junior high schools, 158 teachers in 24 senior high schools, 3 in the Crane Junior College, 10 in the Chicago Normal College, and one in the continuation school, making a total of 416 teachers. Seme of these teachers have been with the schools since the beginning in 1886. Prospective teachers for the elementary and junior high schools are now being trained in the Chicago Normal College.

For many years the number of teachers in each high school has been in tne ratio of one teacher to four hundred pupils.

High schools are provided with two or more gymnasiums and swimming pools.

The physical education program in the schools is supplemented and enriched by the splendid activity program that is conducted by the sixty-five Board of Education playgrounds. There is a splendid spirit of cooperation with the public schools on the part of the South Park playgrounds, West Chicago Park Commission, Lincoln Park Commission and several Small Park Systems, the Turn Vereins, Boys’ Clubs, Y. IvJ. C. A., and many other institutions.

Exercise in Relation to Cardiac Cases

iMary B. Floyd and Marjorie Van Horn.

Exercise is now recognized as a drug for the heart.

Before administering any drug one must understand the results of that drug upon the human body. As we know that a drug may be a beneficial tonic or a harmful poison, exercise must be given with careful consideration in order that good may be derived.

We may give exercise as a tonic to pupils who have functional or slight organic cardiac conditions so long as they have no active infection. To others, exercise is a poison. The latter have active infections which may be of such a low grade that the punil himself does not realize he is sick.

Whether physical education teachers are capable of handling properly children with actual or potential heart conditions, is a disputed question at the present time. Many very good teachers are incompetent to direct such children because they lack a

Digitized by L^ooQle
205

proper perspective and viewpoint of the cardiac field and therefore do not understand what limitations to put upon the child's activities. Many also are unwilling to cooperate closely with school medical departments and family physicians and to assume the individual care that such cases must have.

Too often an indefinitely worded certificate, which means nothing to the teacher, school nurse, or medical inspector, is sent to the school by the family physician requesting that Mary be excused from gymnasium classes solely because Mary does not like to bother dressing for class or has a particular dislike for the activities being taught. This sort of excuse ,is a great handicap to physical educators. After a multiplicity of such cases, the teacher tends to become lax and to underestimate the value and importance of warnings that are contained in the legitimate certificates.

The following appeared on a certificate which was received in one school: “I advise that Mary’s gymnastic activity be restricted because of a heart condition.” This means little because the teacher must know what is wrong with the child before she can judge how much restriction there should be.

The well-informed teacher knows the medical terms that have a bearing on her subject and is able to interpret intelligently a physician’s diagnosis. She should be anxious to cooperate with a doctor who sends a note like the following: “Mary has a slight mitral regurgitation due to Rheumatic Fever which has been arrested for one year. There is no enlargement but she should not participate in competitive activities.”

It is necessary that every child have a thorough and careful annual examination as it is only by this means that potential heart cases can be detected. “There are in all schools many children who have suffered from one or more of the conditions that are known to be forerunners of heart disease”i but who often are not recognized as possible cases by their families. Of seventy-six pupils in our high school who gave a history of one or more of the diseases predisposing to heart disease, fifty-two were found to have no heart lesions and twenty-four to have some form of heart defect. Griffith2 states that a valvular lesion, generally mitral, persists in one half of rheumatic fever cases and that ten to twenty percent develop pericarditis.

Examinations should be made by capable and conscientious physicians who have ample time to devote to the work and who will not be hindered by outside interests. School doctors should have special preparation for this work, and they should understand what is required before they accept the position.

Each child is entitled to a private interview with the doctor and the school nurse who is responsible for the follow up work. At that time the child should be made to feel that it is an opportunity to have a friendly discussion of his condition.

"Of greater immediate importance than the study of structural defects is the determination of the presence or absence of active Rheumatic Infection.”#

Digitized by Google
206

As the width of a normal heart is no more than half the width of the chest wall, a person with a small chest has a comparatively small heart; those with larger chests have larger hearts. Since enlargement of the heart is an important factor in the prescription of exercise, it is necessary that the size of the heart be accurately ascertained and kept as a record for future reference.

For this reason, it would be advisable to install an ortho-diagraphic fluoroscope in schools and use it as part of the routine examination of suspected cases. When this is impossible other arrangements might be made. Where Boards of Education, as in some cities, have established central clinics for the use of all the schools in that system, a fluoroscopic machine could be added to their equipment. If these ideas are impractical, those children whom the doctor feels he is unable to percuss accurately, should be referred to a well-equipped heart clinic.

The history obtained from a child, after a thorough examination, should be closely studied and not simply filed away. With close cooperati n between the physical educator and the medical department much can be done toward diminishing the effects of heart disease.

Eighty percent of heart disease in children is due to rheumatic fever which is the most insidious forerunner of cardiac damage. Homer F. Swift says, “Ninety percent of Rheumatic Fever cases result in heart involvement.” This infection which in so many cases is so chronic that it is not recognized until harm has been done, manifests itself by nervous twitchings, [chorea or St. Vitus’ Dance] pains in the muscles or joints— usually ignored as growing pains by the average adult2—frequent tonsilitis or rheumatic skin disease.

Several cases follow which are examples of each of these various indications.

A girl sixteen years old was examined semi-annually over a period of several years by the school physician who noted twitchings. As twitchings are a manifestation of St. Vitus’ Dance, the girl was advised to see her own doctor and was given rest during physical education periods. The choreic condition persisted and a follow up visit was made asking permission to take the girl to a heart specialist. Chorea is definitely connected with rheumatic fever. 2 He diagnosed active rheumatic infection which caused pericarditis accompanied by slight enlargement of the left ventricle. Another visit was made to acquaint the parents with the seriousness of the existing condition and to gain their closer cooperation. This was successful and the girl who is now under the constant supervision of her own doctor, is placed upon a regular routine at home and is given additional rest periods in school. Because the cooperation is good, the prognosis is favorable and it is felt that by the time the girl reaches twenty her heart should be at least ninety percent of normal.

During the routine physical examinations, a girl was found to have a tachycardia of 120 with no other symptoms but with a

Digitized by t^-ooQle
207

history of growing pains between four and ten years of age. As “Marked persistent tachycardia is evidence of infection”,4 she was permitted only restricted physical education. During some physical achievement tests in the gymnasium class, it was learned that she had a very erratic pulse. One time the rate was 120 before exercise, 140 immediately afterwards, 146 after three minutes of rest, 140 after five minutes of rest, and it mounted higher the longer she remained quiet. At another time before exercise the pulse rate was 120, after walking up fifteen steps it was 160, after walking up another twenty-five steps, it was 152, and after a five minute rest it was 140. She had been under treatment with her family doctor for a nervous heart. Suspecting some cardiac disturbance, her temperature was taken for several weeks. “Continued low grade temperature is a sign of infection.”# As it showed a definite rise of one to two points every afternoons she was referred to the heart clinic. There the doctors discovered a pericarditis and enlargement of the left auricle. She was referred back to her own physician with these findings and the physical education department kept her at rest until the infection was arrested.

Coombs says, “One-third of all rheumatic fever infection is due to infected tonsils.”# An example is that of a girl now sixteen who came to high school with a history of a murmur at the apex of the heart and of having had tonsilitis over a long period as frequently as six or eight times a year. She had her tonsils removed at thirteen years of age. When she entered the high school, she was placed at rest because the murmur was heard over such a large area, being transmitted to the axilla and back. She was a very active girl, most unhappy in rest, and desired more activity. It is often true that the worst cases of heart disease are those who complain the least and do the most. For this reason she was taken to a heart clinic where it was found that she has a mitral stenosis with marked enlargement of the left ventricle, left auricle, and right ventricle. She was put immediately under the care of her family physician and because there is no active infection, she is allowed the very mildest form of restricted exercise at school, but under very careful supervision.

In general practice, a child with this type of heart is allowed no exercise other than walking. However, it is this sort of child who needs the friendly sympathy_of her teacher. In this kind of case it is the duty of the physical education teacher to explain the child’s limitations to him, and to encourage him to participate in such activities which provide satisfactory leisure time recreation, but which put no strain on the damaged heart. These are the children that should be given every encouragement in school, so that they will go on with their education and be able in later life to compete mentally with the world. As they will not be able to compete physically, they should plan to do mental work.

There are many people who are thoroughly convinced that

Digitized by Google
208

there is something radically wrong with their hearts when in reality, it is nothing but “nerves”. They feel that they cannot get their breath upon-exertion, and at times they actually feel their hearts palpitating. They are so conscious of this beating that it worries them. These people are a very self-conscious group and when attention is centered upon them, they flush easily, sigh, act embarrassed and develop motions which a teacher, unacquainted with this type of individual, might confuse with choreic movements. Such people complain also of pains in their chests. Since pain in the chest is rarely the sign of heart trouble and since only a localized pain over the heait is worthy of consideration as a possible cardiac symptom, little attention so far as the heart is concerned should be paid to such pains. Careful examination in cases of this kind, usually shows a definite tachycardia which is due to nervousness. The family unconsciously encourages this nervousness by considering the child a semi-invalid and incapable of exercise.

This is the type, however, for whom exercise is the best possible remedy. Since exercise slows this type of heart and helps to stabilize the nervous system, the more activity such youngsters are given the better will be their general condition. If in addition to exercise, the child is encouraged to have regular hours for sleep and a well-planned diet, much can be done to prevent a bad case of neurasthenia in later life.

A case follows which will illustrate what we mean by a nervous heart: A girl fourteen years old entered high school and in the course of physical examinations came to the attention of the medical inspector. She was normal in weight, had no history of diseases that predispose to heart disease, but was extremely nervous, flushed easily, ran a pulse rate of 140 when the doctor took her pulse, and emitted heaving signs witn every few breatns. Because of the tachycardia she was scheduled for rest periods instead of physical education. Ber condition did not improve; instead of sleeping or relaxing during the rest periods, she tossed nervously, played scales upon the wall, and seemed more upset when the period was over than before it began. It became impossible to count her pulse because of the rigidity and jerking of her arm. She was taken to a heart clinic. There it was found that her heart was normal in size, shape and position, muscle tone was excellent, and no adventitous sounds or murmurs were heard. Ber case was diagnosed as neurocirculatory asthenia and the physical education department was advised to enter her immediately in restricted activity classes and to work her up as quickly as possible to all regular activities. At the present time [June 1932] three months after the clinical examination, she has improved and her pulse, which is 116 at rest, can be counted. She performs activities without any unncessary breathlessness and seems less self-conscious and fidgety.

That nervousness and fear can greatly increase the heart rate was tested by the following experiment: Fifty-nine pupils were asked to ascend a flight of fifteen steps, their pulse rate

Digitized by LjOOQle
209

being taken before and immediately after the exercise. The average increase in rate was 15.5 points. The same pupils were given a rest period during which their hearts returned to the basal rate. They were then asked to ascend backwards the same flight of stairs. Due to much giggling, hesitation and in some instances an expressed fear, the steps were climbed more slowly than when the subjects went up forward. Therefore the physical exertion was considered no greater. The average increase in rate going up backwards was 25 points.

But we must not mistake all tachycardia for nervousness. We must be sure to eliminate by means of basal metabolism readings the rare instances of hyperthyroidism. In adolescents the metabolism rate is generally higher than the normal average and therefore too much attention need not be paid to the slightly increased rates found at this period. The severe manifestations of hyperthyroidism are not common in adolescents 2 who as a rule show only a diffuse enlargement of the entire thyroid gland and, in girls, a transitory increase in size of the gland a few days before the onset of menstrual flow. Most of these cases need little attention 4.

In our school we were desirous of finding the effect on the child’s heart of ordinary school routine, so we experimented with ninety-nine adolescents. Mounting two flights of school steps showed the following changes in heart rate:

The average rise was 46 1-2 points. 23 cases rose 60 points or more.

31% returned to the original rate in three minutes.

18% were below the original rate after a three minute rest.

51% did not return to their original rates after a three minute rest.

[At the time of the experiment it was not possible to wait and note how long these hearts would require to return to their basal rate.]

As cases with a tachycardia of 140 beats per minute or more at rest, the occasional cases of over active thyroid,4 and cases of marked heart involvement, become exhausted on slight exertion, the school curriculum for such children should be so arranged that their classes are on one floor or they should be permitted to use elevators. In addition they should have daily rest periods.

There will usually be found a few cases requiring rest, which from a psychological point of view may be better at very mild exercise. For them, walking would be advisable, as it keeps them out of doors in the sunshine and has little effect upon the heart. Using ninety-nine pupils as an experiment, it was found after a half horn’s walk that the average increase in pulse rate was 4 1-2 points. Twenty-eight of the number used had some slight cardiac irregularity but they showed about the same results as the entire group.

There is much difference of opinion as to what type of heart cases should be given exercise? In this article we have followed

Digitized by L^ooQle
210

the ideas of Dr. Joseph B. Wolffe, Cardiologist of Temple University.

Dr. Charles Leroy Lowman of California admits only functional heart cases to group work. Functional -heart cases are those that have a mild disturbance of the normal heart action that is temporary and due to a disorder outside of the heart itself. However, Dr. Lowman does say, “As the incidence and development of heart trouble is one of the commonest causes of serious heart disease, there is great need for a safe and effective proceeding in dealing with such children” and “Through the intelligent use of restricted exercises and recreations, thousands of children who are potential heart cases may be saved from the development of a sense of failure and inferiority.”6

George T. Stafford of the University of Illinois says, “Although organic heart lesions are not amenable to cure by exercise, graduated exercises increase organic vigor by promoting bodily functions, increasing respiratory efficiency, improving nerve innervations and regulating metabolism and elimination.”?

It is the opinion of Dr. Joseph Wolffe and others 2 that with supervision by a qualified medical inspector and an. intelligent and interested physical education teacher, exercise may be given to many forms of organic as well as functional heart lesions. There is always the proviso that there be no active infection present. Careful control must be maintained over all such cases so that the heart is not made to compensate by enlarging and thus cutting down its reserve—its margin of safety.

Physical education teachers are apt to err on the side of too much exercise. We feel that all restricted activities should be so planned that health talks and discussions on the limitations of specific cases should intersperse the activities for psychological effect as well as to allow the heart to quiet before additional work is thrown upon it. It is by means of this sort of a class that a department can do much real education. By giving each pupil the individual guidance and friendly advice that he needs to make him intelligently understand and appreciate his condition, the teacher is more nearly fulfilling his or her job of preparing the pupil for later life.

Walking has been discussed as a suitable exercise for those required to have restricted activity. Archery keeps the child out of doors and adds interest to what might become a dull program. If a bow no heavier than twenty-two pounds and a short range not more than seventy-five feet are used with every participant resting between turns, benefit should be obtained by many heart cases. Swimming, under careful supervision without competition or endurance stunts and in water that is not cold, makes an interesting and worthwhile activity for the promotion of bodily functions. During the winter and when the weather is inclement, general postural exercises, mostly in a recumbent position, can be used to advantage, providing ample rest periods are allowed between exercises. . Croquet, darts, indoor quoits, marbles, jacks, shuffle board and similar

Digitized by LiOOQle
211

games requiring little activity may also be used in restricted gymnasium classes.

With all this attention to the slightest cardiac sympton and with the restriction of exercise, we must realize that it is very possible to make neurasthenics of the children. Therefore it is the duty of the physical educator to emphasize the heart condition just enough to make the child willing to cooperate. The major stress needs to be placed upon the many things that the child can do and upon teaching him to do them. Heretofore, the restriction has been too negative. In the past, the child has been forbidden by his doctor to do everything that has been his source of play. Now the intelligent teacher shows him new ways to play and helps him to like them. If this guidance is well done, the child will have almost no sense of restriction, and certainly no thought of himself as an invalid.

In summary, we believe that:

1.	More thorough and careful physical examinations should be given to every child in school.

2.	There should be no laws forbidding stripping to the waist for physical examinations of pupils.

3.	Exercise, when properly controlled by a physical education teacher who is interested and is intelligent enough to interpret a physician’s diagnosis correctly, can be used as a very beneficial drug for the treatment of potential and actual heart cases.

4.	Since the size of the heart governs in most cases the decision concerning the amount of exercise advisable, every high school [except the smaller ones] should be equipped with a fluoroscope which should be used as a matter of routine in the careful examination of all pupils. When this is impractical, a clinic in the city or county, which will cooperate with the schools, should be equipped with a machine so that medical inspectors could refer pupils to it.

5.	A restricted program for those needing it should be arranged to take the place of the regular physical education, and a close watch should be maintained over all such cases.

6.	The school rosters, when necessary, should be adjusted to the special, needs of the child.

In such ways, may every child obtain that which is its right; namely, to be enabled to secure a healthy, happy life.

REFERENCES

1.	Cyclopedia of Medicine, Volume III.

2.	Griffith “Diseases of Infants and Children”, Volumes I and II.

3.	Paul Didley White “Heart Disease”.

4.	Nelson “Living Medicine”, Volumes I and III.

5.	Coombs in British Medical Journal, February 8, 1930.

6.	Lowman, Colestock & Cooper “Corrective Physical Education for Groups”.

7.	George Stafford “Preventive and Corrective Physical Education”.
212

Play as a Means of Character Education for the Individual

John C. Kieffer, B. S., M. A., B F. E.

The development of character is a process in which activity is one of the main springs. Primarily character is expressed in terms of relationships with other people. Play, being predominately a social activity, offers rich possibilities in building character. The character building values are inherent in the play activities themselves.

In most play activities the individual is one of a group in which he must respect the rights and privileges of others. If he oversteps these rights or privileges he quickly experiences the disapproval of the group. This pressure of group opinion operates more effectively in many plays and games than it does in most of the ordinary life pursuits. The individual soon learns that unfair play not only brings the penalties demanded by the rules of the game, but that it loses for him the respect of his mates.

He furthermore learns that in observing the rules and in respecting the rights of others he gets along better and derives much more satisfaction from the activity. Not only does he learn to play fair with the other fellow, but he learns to play fair with himself in observing certain laws of training and habits of living. Ee realizes that disregard of these rules may cause him to fail in a game at a critical moment and bring down upon him the contempt of his companions.

Even the simpler forms of play which do not involve teams contribute much to character education. When the child arrives at the age when he is interested and able to engage in team games he already has established certain character traits in some degree. In the sand bin he has learned that his tracks, tunnels or castle cannot preempt all the available space and that there are many other children with whom he must share the sand. Ee also learns that to enjoy the swings, the slides, and other play apparatus he must wait his turn, and subsequently that he must limit the time during which he may use them. In his simple tag games he learns that there are certain rules which if followed increase the fun for all, and at the same time he discovers that failure to observe the rules may stop the game and with it his fun, and that it frequently may even bring down on him unfavorable criticism to which he. is so sensitive.

Furthermore, the stunts and the antagonistic contests so thoroughly enjoyed by children make an important contribution to character education. Very often considerable courage is required to participate in these activities and once having made the trial he gains confidence which leads him on to further effort. Frequently failure may be experienced, but the inherent appeal of the activity and the pressure of group opinion among his playmates will develop a perseverance which eventually will gain

Digitized by kjOOQle
213

success for him. Having once succeeded he will more readily persevere in subsequent situations, until finally the tendency to persevere will have become fixed.

The well-being of society is dependent largely upon mutual understanding among its individuals. Probably no better education in understanding human nature is afforded than through playing with others. This is especially true in keenly contested play activities. Here we may see the sportsmanlike refusal to take unfair advantage, the dogged persistence of a stubborn fighter, the personal sacrifice in team play, or on the other hand there may be evidence of lack of team play, loss emotional control or dissatisfaction with decisions of officials. During the stress of the game, the acquired veneer is likely to be lost and the true nature of the individual revealed. In such situations the individual cannot help but acquire a valuable understanding of human nature. This understanding is of great importance in other situations. How often do worthy social undertakings fail because of petty personal misunderstandings. The habit and attitude of submerging one’s personal feelings for the good of the group does not occur spontaneously but has its beginnings in the sacrifices of self for the group whether these be in tag games or in highly organized team games. Only in the intimate, unguarded contacts of plays and games can we experience the fallacies of snap judgments of others. To his pleasant surprise the child often finds through intimate association in games that his superficial judgment of some playmate is entirely wrong. Given enough of these experiences he will gradually learn to be more leisurely if not more charitable in his evaluation of others.

Play is a great leveler in breaking down race, creed, social, and class barriers and establishing one great common denominator —the personal attributes of the player. In this respect, it contributes much in developing a tolerant and unbiased attitude toward other people. It furthermore tends to emphasize evaluation of others on the basis of their abilities and personality rather than on less significant factors.

Much of the value of play as a means of character education is dependent upon good leadership. Inherent in play activities are forces which under effective direction can produce much benefit to the players but which if not directed wisely may result in unlimited harm to society. The values of play in building character are not dependent necessarily upon adult leadership. Under well organized and trained pupil leaders extensive play programs can be conducted in which situations favorable to character building are numerous. Wise leadership will through tact and proper methods set up standards of conduct and good sportsmanship in play which will contribute much to the character of the players.

Play is also valuable in that it presents abundant opportunity to learn how to win graciously and to lose without excuses. If care is taken to emphasize the joy of the game and giving one’s best in the play, losing will be less disheartening. When the in-

Digitized by Google
214

dividual fixes his goal in terms of his best effort he will be less likely to be misled by apparent success or to despair of temporary setbacks. Life at best presents many heartaches, disappointments, and defeats which may be fatal to the person who has not learned how to surmount them, while to the individual who had developed the proper attitude in this respect, they may be the stimulus to greater achievement.

Thus, we find in play limitless opportunities for practicing forms of behavior which are so vital to the formation of fine character: In these situations the individual has a choice in his behavior, and he suffers or gains immediately according to his choice. If the environment and leadership are good they will aid him in making the right choice. Without play activity the individual is deprived of an infinite number of situations which, especially in the developmental years of childhood and youth, are oi incomparable value in character training.

REPORT ON DIVISION OF TIME BETWEEN REGULAR CLASS WORK AND COACHING ASSIGNMENTS

The following is a summary of the report made after a study of the time devoted to class activities and coaching interscholastic sports in Columbus high schools by Supervisoi B. E. Wiggins.

In senior high schools, where as a rule two men carry the load of the program and in which assignments are made as nearly equal as possible, both with respect to the regular class work and coaching assignments, it was discovered that the time devoted to class work for each man was 600 hours for the school year. On the basis of two major sports and an average of two minor sports each, the time devoted to strictly coaching work totaled 397 3-4 hours which closely approximates 2-3 of the time devoted to class work for the mass. This would seem to indicate that there is a fair and reasonable adjustment of the divisions of assigned work.

In the junior high school division, one man carried the bulk of all work for boys, coaching included. The figures of the survey reveal that the time for each man amounts to 900 hours per school year for class work, and 370 1-3 hours in coaching the various teams. This is a proportion of 3-5 for class work and 2-5 for coaching.

A.P.E.A. Convention Dates

National Convention, in conjunction with the Southern District meeting,—

Louisville, Ky., April 26-29, 1933.

Eastern District, Springfield, Mass., April 5-8, 1933.

Midwest District, Wichita, Kan., March 27-April 1, 1933. Northwest District, Spokane, Wash., date not yet announced-

Digitized by
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 39	DECEMBER,	1932	No.	408

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Emil Rath, Nonnal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

Carl L. Schrader, Boston, Massachusetts.

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Asso., New York.

Grover W. Mueller, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.,

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editor, 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa.

Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March .3, 1879.

A study made by Professor House, Washington State College, of the duties of 1032 men engaged in teaching physical education in 725 cities representing every state except Wyoming, shows that approximately one third teach other subjects in addition to physical education. Included in the latter group there are probably many who entered the field of physical education as coaches only after graduation from college,—men who had prepared themselves to teach other subjects or for other work without the thought of teaching physical education. It is to be expected that most of these colleagues would teach academic subjects in addition to their coaching duties; in many cases State teacher certification laws would make this necessary. It is fortunate for them that in many communities, especially those smaller than second class cities and particularly in times of economic duress, the need and the demand is for teachers who can and are certified to teach more than one subject.

Such need and demand for versatile teachers should be noted by students preparing to teach physical education and hoping to secure employment in that field. They will be wise if they prepare themselves to teach one or more minor subjects, perhaps in the field of health education and in the biological -or social sciences. Possibility of physical disability at a later time would also seem to dictate such preparation.

If this thesis is valid, all teacher training institutions should immediately follow the lead of those schools which already require that their students receive such preparation.

The next quinquennial German Turnfest [Gymnastic Festival] will be held next summer in Stuttgart, Germany. Few events of professional interest and educational value to physical educators which can compare with German Turnfests in magnitude and importance are held anywhere in the world.

Digitized by L.ooQle
216

The spirit of the competitors and the enthusiasm of the non-participants would be difficult to describe to the uninitiated. The folk of the city join hands to insure a gala affair during the entire festival. To witness the organization and administration of such a Turnfest is an education in itself. Aside from the regular varied program of events, a feature of special interest is the series of demonstrations given by classes under the direction of many of the outstanding physical educators of central European countries. The United States has for many years been represented among the visitors by a large number of our progressive teachers. Under the prevailing low transportation and living costs, Stuttgart should attract a large delegation from this country in 1933.

A Frill in Education?

By James Edward Rogers, Director, National Physical Education Service.

1.	The school health and physical education program pays in dpllars and cents. It saves taxes. It reduces school costs. For instance, some four years ago in Alabama a ruling was passed that it was necessary for schools to maintain a health and physical education program in order to get any state funds. This was based not on general arguments but on the fact that ill health and physical defects cut down attendance, increase absence and cause retardation—and retardation is a very costly process. To re-educate boys and girls in the second, or any of the grades, costs $80.00 to $100.00 apiece. If you add these together it totals thousands of dollars. Usually retardation comes because of illness—Johnny has lost in his school work because he has been out with tonsilitis. We found in Alabama the average pupil was absent fourteen days a year and nine of these were due to common colds that were preventable.

2.	There is a close relation between the school health program and the 3 R’s. The correlation between a pair of glasses and good reading is high. Ofttimes pupils fail in arithmetic because they are one of the 1,300,000 school children hard of hearing. It is very difficult for children to learn when they are suffering from colds, fevers, bad teeth, sore tonsils, etc.

3. We must evaluate the school program in terms of 1932, not in terms of 1910 or 1900. For instance, English was considered a fad in 1900. I agree with State Superintendent Payson Smith, one of our outstanding educators, that what we need to do with our curricula is to eliminate some of the old deadwood— that is, the old sixteenth century subjects—and substitute the twentieth century subjects. For instance, latin in the old days was a prescribed subject for four years in high schools. Yale the other day—the last stronghold of classical instruction—made latin an elective. So what was considered a fad and frill a few years ago might today be the most necessary.

4.	The whole problem of cutting or retrenchment is a 'matter not of elimination but of reorganization and revaluation.

5.	Education must change for an ever changing world; we

Digitized by
217

have a changing curriculum because of a changing civilization. Each generation produces hew needs. The growth in the school curriculum is because of necessity. In 1870 the 3 R’s. were sufficient because we were a rural nation. In 1890 science education became important because we became a manufacturing nation. In 1900 vocational education became important because we developed an urban civilization and our age became industrial. In 1930 health and physical education was emphasized because this industrial materialistic age of high tension and speed makes provision by the schools for physical fitness essential. It is becoming more difficult for boys and girls to keep physically fit and well in this age of mechanical invenfions.

6.	The way to tackle the problem if any retrenchment is to be made is to first answer the question, “What is education?”, and your definition has to be, “Education is that which prepares and trains for complete living.” Okay. What is essential in 1932 for complete living? You will find that the so-called fads and frills—-health, physical education and education for leisure—although not so necessary in the 70s, 80s and 90s, today become of paramount importance. The typewriter has taken care of our penmanship, and the adding machine and cash register have taken care of our arithmetic.

7.	We must be wise in our retrenchment. Retrenchment is necessary but we must be businesslike and not panicky. We should retrench horizontally, not vertically. We should not cut out one of the essentials. We must not eliminate. We must not omit one. What we must do is to revaluate, condense, evaluate and economize all through the curriculum. For instance, we can save a great deal in the 3 R’sv There is a great deal of waste time and motion in arithmetic.. Why teach cube root? It is not necessary—it is no longer used. We also can save a great deal of time in spelling, and in other subjects.

School Children in Industry.

A warning against the threatened breakdown of educational standards throughout the country and a plea for the return to school of children now competing in the labor market made by Dr. Mary E. Woolley, delegate to the recent Disarmament Conference and President of Mt. Holyoke College, Senator Arthur Capper, Rev. S. Parkes Cadman, William Allen White, William Green, President of the American Federation of Labor, and others was released today by the National Child Labor Committee at their headquarters, 331 Fourth Avenue, New York City.

These and other distinguished leaders in the fields of education, politics, religion, labor, and social welfare point out in the statement which reads as follows, that:

„ "Over three million children from 7 to 17 years of age are out of school, and over two million boys and girls of this

Digitized by kjOOQle
218

age are gainfully employed, while from ten to eleven million adults are in desperate need of work.

"The wise builder of a home looks well to its foundation to the end that both the building and the family dwelling therein may be secure in time of storm or flood. The builders of this Nation have been of one accord in singling out universal education as the most essential underpinning for our democracy. That foundation is now threatened as it has not been in generations.

“While there must be economies in governmental expenses in such a time as thi% economies in school budgets are touching a vital subject and should be planned with extreme care. Where possible they should be restricted to the elimination of unessentials. Where further cuts are unavoidable it is urged that they be not concentrated on services to older children thereby tending to throw on the market a flood of cheap child labor and to add to existing unemployment. Rather should such economies be wisely spread.

“If order is to replace chaos in our economic life it is of the highest importance that our children of today should have the right preparation to take their part tomorrow in the life, labor, and politics of their time. More, rather than less, schooling is requisite not only as an immediate relief for the overcrowded labor market but as an aid in preparing young people to qualify for types of work that are more than footless routine when times are better. Instead, school terms are being drastically shortened and teaching forces curtailed, attendance work is being reduced, or even cut off, vocational training and guidance programs are being suspended and buildings essential to house increasing school populations are remaining unbuilt.

“The consequence is that, in spite of reported increase in enrollment in high schools and vocational schools where available, children who should remain in school and receive further training for future and larger responsibilities, are pouring out of school ill-prepared for worthwhile jobs. They are crowding into an already congested labor market and making it even more difficult for adults to secure work.

“This situation is a menace to our national well-being. In view of its seriousness, we earnestly appeal to leaders everywhere to join in pressing toward the achievement of the following ends which are essential both to present economic improvement and to future progress:

“[1] The removal from industry of children below 16 years of age.

“[2] A higher age for school leaving, better organized attendance service, and, where needful, the provision of scholarships and relief to replace the child’s earnings.

“[3] The promotion of effective vocational training and guidance programs in the schools.

“[4] The maintenance of educational standards and vigorous
219

defense of the schools against unwarranted or injudicious cuts in funds.”

The National Child Labor Committee is now pressing for vigorous action through local committees in various states to effect the ends sought, and is redoubling its efforts to keep children in school and out of industry.

In making public this statement, Courtenay Dinwiddie, Executive Secretary of the National Child Labor Committee, calls attention to the fact that the present depression is the first one in which support for the schools has been generally curtailed.	“Reports from	individual counties in 36 states indicate

that antiquated systems of raising school revenue, coupled with drastic cuts in appropriations are rapidly lowering the efficiency of our educational system. School terms are being radically reduced all over the country; some schools have not opened this year, or are operating for only a few weeks; teachers’ salaries have been cut as much as fifty per cent, and in many cases teachers have been unpaid for months; attendance enforcement is weakened; vocational training curtailed; guidance and counselling work eliminated; teaching loads are increased ten per cent or more; and necessary expenditures for equipment and building programs held up. In spite of the tremendous need for stretching educational budgets to care for boys and girls who should remain in school instead of competing in the labor market, school work is being curtailed sharply, often at the very points which most vitally affect the needs of adolescent children so that they are, in effect, being thrown into the labor market.”

Others who signed the statement include Felix Adler, Founder of the Ethical Culture Society, John Dewey, Rev. Edward L. Israel, Chairman of the Social Justice Commission of the Central Conference of American Rabbis, Professor Samuel McCune Lindsay of Columbia University, Joseph Rosier, President of the National Education Association and Rev. John A. Ryan of the National Catholic Welfare Conference.

News, Notes and Comments.

From information received in response to questions presented to the supervisors of health and physical education in forty-four cities of the United States, Charles C. Wilson, M.D., Director, Department of Health and Physical Education, Public Schools, Evansville, Indiana, suggests that the following conclusions may be drawn:

[1]	The general practice is to pay physical education teachers according to the same schedule as used for teachers of other subjects.

[2]	Thirty-nine [out of forty-four] cities do not make any provision for compensating teachers for developing intramural programs.

[3]	Twenty-three [out of forty-four] cities do not make provi-

Digitized by C^ooQle
220

sion for compensating teachers for developing interscholastic programs. Thirteen compensate for this work by paying additional sums and eight by adjusting the teacher’s schedule.

[4]	The majority of supervisors are of the opinion that there should be some compensation for after-school work in connection with intramural work, twelve believing in paying additional money and eleven suggesting either additional money or decreased school time schedule.

[5]	The majority of supervisors favor compensation for afterschool work in connection with representative teams. Fourteen [out of forty-four] suggest adjusting the teacher’s school time teaching load and eleven recommend the payment of additional money.

Depression Note From Princeton.—Because of the hard times, a distinct increase in illness, mental and nervous troubles is.noted among the students. Dr. Joseph E. Raycroft, chairman of the Department of Health and Physical Education, finds that "the stress and strain of general social and economic conditions have had their effects upon the students, as indicated by the increased amount of illness and disabilities, and a larger number of cases of emotional instabilities and maladjustments.”—Phila. Ledger.

The number of institutions training teachers of physical education has risen from 14 in 1917 to about 400 in 1932.

Fallacy In Standardization.—The amount of time the student is required to spend in the practice of skills and in practice teaching, while generally estimated at 16 credit hours for the former and 6 credit hours for the latter, might better be determined to some extent at least by the needs of the individual student. It should be more than a time clock arrangement. An efficient, successful teacher is the end product sought and no system of credits or hours can accomplish that end in itself.

Dr. D. Oberteuffer has been appointed Professor of Physical Education to serve as chairman of the Graduate Division of the Department of Physical Education at Ohio State University.

Yale’s New Athletic Policy—Commenting editorially on Yale’s new athletic policy the New York Times for May 28th says: “Intercollegiate football is cut down to five games a season. The season itself is shortened by prohibiting organized Spring practice for the Fall sports and Fall practice for the Spring sports. The professional coach is abolished. With him goes the elaborate and costly apparatus of exclusive training tables and other inflated operating costs which made out of the men making a trip to play a football game almost an aggregation of movie prima donnas. Free admission to all games for the undergraduate

Prof. H. H. House.
221

body is prescribed. The size of training squads is cut down. Obviously, this is an earnest and courageous attempt to take college athletics out of the show business and restore its original character of enforced play."

Handicapped Children.—More than 5,000,000 children in the United States are handicapped to an extent requiring special attention and education, according to a survey recently completed by the committee on special classes of the White House Conference. The following classes of defective children were reported:

3.000.	000 with impaired nearing, 1,000,000 witn defective speech,

1.000.	000 with weak or damaged hearts, 450,000 mentally retarded

300,000	crippled, 14,000 blind, and 50,000 partly blind.

Eye Accidents.—Findings of a study made by the National Society for the Prevention of Blindness indicate that almost two thirds of the eye accidents to children in this country are due to weapons [air rifles, slingshots, arrows, etc.], fireworks, and explosives. Apparently most games and sports are comparatively free from eye hazards, the total for all those noted being only about 5 percent.

How Movies Affect the Health and Morals of Children—

Just how the movies affect the health and morals of children and what the producers should do about it are to be clearly settled as a result of four years of scientific research carried on by the leading psychologists of the country under the auspices of the Payne Fund. The data is to be published in eight or ten volumes but it will not be buried in reports, as a group of 250 leading educators and public-spirited citizens have already organized to direct a practical move for better films under the auspices of the Motion Picture Research Council. The group is led by Dr. John Grier Hibben, former president of Princeton University, and includes Bishop Francis J. McConnell, U. S. Commissioner of Education William J. Cooper, Jane Addams, Dorothy Canfield Fisher, General Jay J. Morrow and John H. Finley.

In addition to the official volumes of the scientific report, the Council has informed the public of its findings through a series of articles by Eenry James Forman in McCall’s Magazine. The first of the series, which tells how too many films hint children’s sleep appeared in the September issue.

Higher Education in Oregon- Oregon recently finished the task of gathering together her six separate and more or less competing institutions of higher learning, placed them under a single management, and started them off in September 1932 as six units of a single coordinated and unified Oregon State System of Higher Education.

Under the new plan the state university at Eugene, the state cohege at Corvallis, the Oregon Medical School at Portland, and the three normal schools at Monmouth, Ashland, and La-

Digitized by A^ooQle
222

Grade, are all units of the one system under the control of a single state board of higher education and administered by a single chancellor. At the same time each unit retains its individuality being presided over by a president, dean, or director. A single catalogue for the entire Oregon System of Higher Education will now present the offerings available in the state.

Salaries of High School Coaches—On the basis of information obtained from 574 coaches in 46 states, whose main business is coaching although their work includes teaching other academic subjects in senior high schools, Marie M. Ready found that the average saiary is $1,461 in villages having a population less than 2,500; $1,902 in cities with a population of 2,500 to 9,999, and $2,299 where the population is from 10,000 to 100,000.

Recreational Leaders—It is reported in the 1932 Yearbook of the National Recreation Association that more than 25,000 recreational leaders are employed in 834 cities.

Dr. M. Forrester-Brown, London, states that some estimates have placed the proportion of individuals in a civilized community-suffering from foot symptoms as high as 70 to 90 percent.

COLLEGES WHICH RECOGNIZE ENTRANCE CREDIT FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

James Edward Rogers

Alabama .

The colleges of Alabama accept one unit of health and physical education for entrance. Such credits must be earned from high schools on the accredited list of the State Department of Education.

California

California now requires one unit of health and physical education for graduation from high school. The University of Southern California recognizes entrance credit.

Delaware

Dover College for Colored Students recognizes physical education credits for entrance.

Florida

The Florida Principals’ Association favors one unit of credit in health and physical education within the 16 required for college entrance. The following institutions of higher learning will accept one unit of physical education for entrance: University of Florida, Florida State College for Women, University of Miami, Stetson University, and Rollins College. There are two other colleges in the state which are considering the proposition and probably will also accept this entrance credit.

Idaho

Gooding College, Wesleyan, Idaho, allows one unit of entrance credit for high school physical education.

Digitized by LjOOQle
223

Illinois

The following colleges recognize one unit out of sixteen; DePau University, Chicago, 111.; Eastern Illinois State Teachers College, Charleston, 111.; Rockford College, Rockford, 111.

Illinois College, Jacksonville, 111. reco<mizes one unit out of fifteen, if granted by accredited high school for graduation. Louisiana

Louisiana State University and Agricultural and Mechanical College Baton Rouge allows one unit of entrance credit for high school physical education.

Missouri

Southwest Missouri State Teachers College, Springfield, allows one unit of entrance credit for high school physical education.

Ohio University, University of Cincinnati, Denison University and Otterbein College recognize health and physical education as a unit of entrance. In addition, all Ohio colleges will recognize one unit from health and physical education among the five special subjects of art, music, home economics, manual training and physical education. That is, the student may submit 14 solid subjects and one other chosen from the above group.

Oklahoma

At the Northeastern State Teachers College, Talequah, Okla., “if the student does not present one unit of physical education from an accreditd high school, he may be required to take four hours of practice courses in addition to the regular requirement”.

Pennsylvania

At the Philadelphia Normal School, Philadelphia, Pa., all applicants for admission must present "seven points in physical education.”

South Dakota

At the Southern State Normal School, Springfield, South Dakota, one-half unit is allowed as entrance credit in physical education.

Texas

Herein are stated proposed standards which high schools in Texas must meet in order to be placed upon the list of schools approved by the State Department of Education. These standards should be regarded as the first step toward minimum standards which all schools should strive to meet. They are based upon standards now being used in the schools of other states and are not considered to be beyond the reach of the average school.

For 1932-33 schools meeting the standards given below will be placed upon the approved list by the State Department of Education.

For 1933-34 approved schools will be allowed to give one-half credit in physical and health education to be counted toward high school graduation and college entrance, provided they were

Digitized by Google
224

approved the previous year and provided further that all standards are satisfactorily met for 1933-34.

For 1934-35 schools approved the previous two years and which still remain on the approved list may give an additional one-fourth credit or a total of three-fourths credit for this year. If approved for only one year previous only one-half credit may be allowed.

For 1935-36 schools approved the three previous years and which still remain on the approved list may give one full credit in physical and health education to count toward high school graduation and college entrance.

This plan provides that schools must be on the approved list for one year before being allowed to give one-half credit; on the list two years before being allowed to give three-fourths credit; and on the list three years before being allowed to give one full credit. This would mean that no complete four year program would. be recognized before 1935-36. [Six pages of standards follow]

West Virginia

West Virginia University will recognize up to one unit of physical education for entrance credit and, while we cannot say definitely concerning the other state institutions, they, for the most part, recognize the same entrance credit requirements as the University.

North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools

Among the recommendations of the North Central Association is the following: “The Association recommends that three units in English, two units in Social Science, one unit in Biological Science, or one* unit in General Science, and one unit in physical education or health [with or without credit], be required for graduation for all students in the four year high school.”

Syracuse Has All-Sports Program.—Syracuse University has inaugurated an intramural sports program which is very popular. Horseshoe pitching is becoming “collegiate” and “touch” football is taking its place with golf, basketball, handball, and mountain climbing. Thirty-five teams were entered in a recent “touch,” football tournament. Seventy-eight teams and almost a thousand students are taking part in the basketball competition now under way. Bowling, swimming, and tennis are included in the program as instruction for wise use of leisure time after graduation. Graduate students, training to become high-school physical education instructors, aid in directing this intramural sports program.—	School Life.

Effects of Depression.—“The effects of depression on education include the lengthening of the period of schooling for all; a marked increase in leisure time; and the substitution of the principle of the mutual dependence of all for the independence of the individual characteristic of pioneer days. One of the most important tasks confronting the schools of tomorrow is providing

Digitized by v^ooQle
225

junior citizens with habits and means of using their leisure time sanely, safely, and constructively. Skills and appreciations in art, music, literature, sports, and creative avocational activities in all forms of the fine and practical arts and outdoor sports should be encouraged to provide wholesome outlets for surplus physical energy and the means for creating self-expression.”—Dr. James Rule,	Supt.	Penna. State Dept, of Public Instruction.

Physical Education Facts, from School Life, Sept. 1932. In -173 cities, boards of education cooperate in promoting recreational programs.

More than 2,500,000 children attend camps annually.

There are about 100,000 camp counselors in the United States.

In 1931, bond issues for recreation in 27 cities totaled $4,-191,887.

The median salary of all ranks of physical education teachers in land-grant colleges and universities, male and female, is $3,073.

Salaries of directors of physical and health education in city public schools in 78 large cities range from $1,300 to $9,000.

► In 1931, the American National Red Cross issued 62,693 life-saving certificates.

There has been no increase in the number of drownings during the past 10 years.

Grade teacher certification requirements in 14 States include some training in physical education.

The Teacher’s Health.—In discussing the chief causes of ill health among teachers, the School Health Bureau of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. states that “the habitual violation of the laws of health with respect to work, food, rest, sleep, and recreation contributes to worry, inefficiency, and to ill health. Fur the", that “Play as a means of self-release and self-expression is probably more necessary to teachers than to any other group of people. In the classroom and in many of their outside activities they are under the restraint of feeling that their conduct is watched closely and that they must be models of decorum and personality patterns for the young”.

THE LOS ANGELES JUVENILE RESEARCH COUNCIL

Los Angeles has a Juvenile Research Council which is an informal but permanent group representing the County Probation Committee, County Probation Department, Juvenile Hall, Crime Prevention Bureau of the Police Department, the Board of Education, the Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce, the Libraiy Department, the Sheriff’s Office, the Juvenile Court, the Public Safety Division of the Automobile Club of Southern California, The Sociology Department of the University of Southern California, and the Department of Playground and Recreation.

The purpose of the Council is to serve as a clearing house

Digitized by kjOOQle
226

character building program for

children. It plans to collect information on child problems from the various agencies and issue a consolidated report each month. From time to time committees will be assigned to the study of special problems which seem to deserve attention. At the present time a committee is working on a study of leisure time activities of Juvenile Hall children. The Council hopes to point out to the character building agencies the various problems which the other agencies in the group encounter.

Problems of Recent Teaching Graduates:—Stimulation of interest in subject matter and control over pupils were listed by 6j2 teaching graduates of Ohio State University as the problems most frequently encountered in beginning teaching. Undoubtedly, the problems of motivation and discipline are closely interrelated since students who are not interested in a subject often become disciplinary cases. In comparing the problems for the men and the women, considerable agreement was found. However, men had less trouble with discipline, and a smaller percentage indicated motivation as a problem.—Edu. Research Bull., Ohio State Univ.

A.A.U. Convention:—Following repeated discussion in previous conventions, the A.A.U. during its 1932 convention adopted the metric system of measurement for all track and field events. As our readers know, this is the universal standard in European competition.

The following championship awards were made:

Women’s track and field, senior outdoor, Chicago; junior outdoor and indoor, not decided.

Women’s basket ball—Wichita, Kan., in March.

Ven’s basket bal]—Kansas City, in March.

Four-wall handball, singles and doubles, Chicago; senior one wall, New York; junior, New Haven, Coim.

National senior cross country — Chicago; junior Philadelphia.

National 10-mile run—Norwich, Conn.

National 15-mile run—Albany, N. Y., to Schenectady.

National 20-mile run — Newark.

Marathon — Washington.

Wrestling—Either Chicago or Baltimore, committee to decide in 90 days.

Men's track and field—Chicago.

Men’s track and field, indoors—New York.

Ice hockey — New York.

All-Year Camps In England.—An organization known as Grith Fyrd Camps has been initiated in England by the Order of Woodcraft Chivalry, a social and educational organization which has had 16 years’ experience in year-round camping. According to the New York Times, it is more than an unemployment

Digitized by

Google
227

scheme, for it aims at filling needs which would be urgent if there were no unemployment—[1] for the regaining by young men of that personal experience of primitive adventure which was lost in the migration from country to town; [2] for the constructive use of readiness to face danger and difficulty in serving their country, and [3] for education in the purposeful use of the leisure which humanity has secured by the elaboration of machines. The first camp has been constructed close to the bank of the Avon at Godshil], We hope this project may attain a successful development.

Faculty Opinion On Intercolleagiate Play.—Spectator, undergraduate daily of Columbia University, has reported on the expressions of opinion given by 108 faculty members in answer to a questionaire concerning present methods of organizing intercollegiate play. To a direct question asking whether the present system met their approval thirty-four answered in the affirmative to twenty-nine who disapproved, while nineteen others declared Columbia free from overemphasis on football by comparison with other institutions.

Students were urged by seventy-two to participate in football instead of merely standing on the side lines; and fifty-four replied they liked to watch football games to sixteen who denied it gave them any pleasure. Ten were uncertain whether they enjoyed the spectacle.

The majority of faculty members denied they would discriminate in grading in favor of a football player, although nine said they would so discriminate “under certain circumstances.” Regarding the latter question, one professor answered that it insulted him, and another challenged the honesty with which his colleagues would reply to it. Ivlany said they would endeavor to aid football by special coaching.—N. Y. World Telegram.

WORDS OF CAUTION

Reassuring statements come from a number of different sources concerning the quality of public health in these years of depression. Such statements are received with a sense of satisfaction that the results of the work of the public health agencies and health teaching generally have been effective so that people in the emergency exhibit a certain health consciousness and exercise discretion as to what budgetaiy cuts may be made.

Our specific control measures against diphtheria, smallpox, and typhoid fever, and the improvement in the milk supply, which is reflected in the death rate from diarrhea and enteritis, unquestionably make a contribution to our improved health status which is reflected in a lower total death rate. We have been fortunate in having had a low incidence of respiratory infections during these three years. This factor alone would account, in a considerable measure, for the present low mortality. That the present low tuberculosis rates will stand the shock of

Digitized by L^ooQle
228

the next year or two, particularly if there should be an increase in respiratory infections, is extremely doubtful. It seems important then that health workers over the country be not too optimistic concerning the health reserve of their people, particularly the younger age group.

Walter Lippmann, in the New York Herald Tribune, October 20, 1932, gives a caution on the social side saying: “To keep men and women, young boys and girls from despair, from the hideous boredom of having nothing to do, from the crushing sense of not being wanted, of having no place in society and no work to do, of being a problem and not a human being—that is the real task of philanthropy in these long dreary days. And for that task extraordinary efforts will be required from those social agencies which devote themselves not to feeding the starving but to providing entertainment, and interests, and sociability, and advice, and friendliness and all those imponderable necessities which help to make men self-respecting and confident —Child Health Bulletin,

Deaths Due To Football In 1932.—In spite of revision in the rules, the number of deaths resulting from football this year is approximately the same as in 1931.

CHILD HEALTH DAY

We must develop a definite community procedure to ensure that every day in the yea' brings to every child at least the three bare essentials of milk, bread and some fruit or veget-table. We must be sure that every mother knows how to concentrate first on these essentials in the diet of her children and after that to supplement her menus in accordance with her means. The records of medicine and the sciences, including X-ray pictures, show beyond a doubt that if children lack essential body-building elements this year, the§e cannot be made up to them next year. This lack leaves a permanent mark even in the bones. Growth and development are stunted unless the essentials are provided.

That the growing body of the child may utilize to the best advantage the food it gets, sunshine and relaxation are necessary. Since, in the words of Dr. Miriam Van Waters of the Los Angeles Juvenile Court, young people need "flowers, trees, water, earth and rocks," we should extend rather than curtail the development of parks and playgrounds, nature study, artcraft, and hobby clubs. Public-spirited men and women, in order to lessen the effects upon children of nervous tension in those around them are encouraging groups like these, and are securing wise leaders for them.

Digitized by Google
229

Foreign Notes.

Sixty-three acres of land have been granted by the government of Madras to the Y.M.C.A. College of Physical Education in India.

Sees Peril in Disease Prevention.

Warning that modem conquests of disease by medical science may become dangerously perfect is sounded, with regard to diphtheria and scarlet fever, by Sir John Broadbent, president of the Medical Society of London. Conquest of these two diseases already is almost complete in modem communities but is due, Sir John recalls, not to extinction of the germs concerned but merely to serum injections or other artificial methods by which the majority of the population becomes immune to these diseases. Once this artificial immunity is so complete that the diseases disappear for a generation or so there is danger that these procedures of immunization will be forgotten or carried out less completely. This might lead, it is predicted, to one of the most terrible epidemics ever experienced by mankind.

A COMMUNITY PLAY PROGRAMME IN COIMBATORE,

INDIA.

D. Santiago, B. A.

It is admitted on all sides that the physical condition of the present-day generation in India is far from being satisfactory. One of the chief causes for this state of affairs is the lack of play spirit, both among the young and the old. Play has been one of the most powerful means of building up the life of a people in every way, all the world over. Play is not only necessary for the groving boy, but also for the adult, for the young and the old. Herein comes the need for a community wide programme of play, in order to promote health and happiness for all.

We should like to state here briefly how we are trying to meet the play needs of Coimbatore. Coimbatore is a fast Rowing city with a population of nearly a lakh. There are several cotton mills with some thousands of operatives and many public institutions, including 7 high schools, 3 colleges, and 5 special schools in addition to the elementary schools.

At the Y. M. C. A. Centre. The Y. M. C. A. has given an effective lead to the play movement in Coimbatore. The Association grounds have been planned to provide for several types of major and minor games, viz., volley ball, playground ball, basket ball, tennis, tenniquoit, badminton, gymnastics and athletics, and here we have demonstrated to the public, particularly to the educational institutions, how, even in a small place like ours, a variety of activities could be organised. From 50 to 100

Digitized by CjOOQle
230

young men and boys, including street boys, participate in these daily games.

2.	Special Demonstrations. Special exhibitions and demonstrations have their place in the scheme of physical education. On special occasions, we have had demonstrations in our grounds in simultaneous physical activities. • They have given a great impetus to the play movement in Coimbatore.

3.	Lantern Lectures. During the annual public health week celebrations, and in the Y. M. C. A. adult education work which is carried on month after month, a series of open air lectures in vernacular are given to the masses in different parts of the town on health subjects, with special emphasis on the necessity of play for healthful living. 2iK) to 40J men, women and children attend each meeting.

4.	District Physical Education Conference. With a view to creating public interest in physical education, a District Conference was convened in the Y. M. C. A. in 1929. Over 200 delegates representing schools, colleges and other institutions in the district attended the conference and actively participated in its deliberations. We can say from what we see now everywhere that the conference has contributed much to the cause of physical education in the district. Physical education is slowly but surely coming to its own and to take its right place not oniy in schools but also in the community.

5.	Physical Training Summer School for Elementary Schools. The condition of elementary schools is much worse than that of secondary schools. Lack of proper leaders is one of the chief problems. To meet this need, the District Educational Council is asking us to run a Physical Training Summer School for teachers. The Council will meet the cost of running the school.

6.	Excursions to places of interest are undertaken from time to time and they are proving very valuable to young men both from the physical and educational standpoints.

7.	Coimbatore Athletic Association. The most interesting piece of service we have done to the community is the reorganisation of the Coimbatore Athletic Association which was started some 15 years ago. Three years ago it was more or less in a defunct state with no constitution and no leadership. To-day it has an up-to-date constitution with its membership purposely restricted to 3 classes, viz. Patron, Corporate or Institutional, and Associate. In all, there are 29 members including 15 corporate members. The sympathy and support of the departments and organisations in the district, official and non-official, to any programme that may be chalked out by the C. A. A. is now assured as the heads of the various departments are on the C.A.A. as Ex-officio Patron members. Barring the few associate members, the C.AA. is practically a body representing the various educational institutions and public associations like the Y.M.CA^ In short, the C.A.A. is a Community Organisation trying to serve its constituency.

[b]	Organised Public Tournaments. The C.A.A. is not only

Digitized by CjOOQle
231

coordinating but also conducting and controlling 10 public tournaments—3 foot ball, 1 hockey, 3 cricket, 2 sports and 1 volley ball. Three of these [cricket, volley and district sports] were originally organised by the Y. M. C. A., 1 [foot ball] by the London Mission, and the rest by private enterprise. Ever since the C.A.A. took control, there has been more order, more dis-cioline and more uniformity in the conduct of all the tournaments. The institutions have been brought into closer fellowship with one another, to work together with the common aim of fostering and promoting healthy play among young men and boys.

[c]	The Gandhi Irwin Stadium. Another important public service was the opening of the Stadium by the District Board at the instance of the C.A.A. Situated in t^e Coimbatore Park, it was constructed at a cost of Rs. 14,000 and provides full-sized football and hockey fields, also a quarter mile running track with permanent fencing all round. All the tournaments are now run here. There is plenty of play space in the Park in addition to the Stadium grounds, which has been portioned out to institutions for play purposes. Arrangements are being made to transfer the management of the Stadium which is now under the District Board, to the C.A.A., so as to keep the grounds in a trimmed condition all the year round for the use of the public.

_ [d] Survey of Open Spaces. The C.A.A. recently appointed a Committee to survey the whole town and mark out all the open spaces lying in different parts of the town especially in congested areas. We have submitted a list of such open lots to the Municipal Council, strongly urging them to preserve these places so as to serve as city ‘lungs’ and as public playgrounds. It is hoped that our city fathers, with a far-sighted policy, will welcome our proposals and co-operate with us in this playground scheme.

[e] Swimming Tank. The CA.A. is thinking of opening a public swimming tank in the Park. But this is just in the talking stage!

These are the lines along which we are trying to meet the play needs of Coimbatore. In all these, the Y.M.C.A. has actively co-operated with the C.A.A. and through it with public organisations like the District Board, Municipal Council and the District Educational Council, and we do believe that only by such team work, can we best serve the community.—Vyayam, India.

Women Physically Inferior To Men?—The New York Times states that in Russia “there are women bricklayers, motor-men, soldiers, arid militiamen; women military air pilots mid thousands of women factory workers. American specialists in the Stalingrad tractor plant said that the women learned hew to run the complicated machines more quickly than the men and were less inclined to loaf.’’

Digitized by t^ooQle
232

Health Education Notes.

Drinking Water With Meals—The opinion is quite widely held that drinking water with meals is bad. It is true that drinking large quantities of water with meals can disturb digestion and even dilate the stomach unduly, and that if the water is very cold the harm is greater. But drinking water with meals in moderate quantities is a good thing. It helps digestion by facilitating the mixing of the food with the digestive juices in the stomach, and it cleans off the tongue, thereby improving the taste function. Moreover, water taken with the food favors the passage of the food from the stomach into the intestine and its further digestion and absorption there—Medical Times and Long Island Medical Journal.

Genetics Versus Eugenics.—The latest advances in our knowledge of genetic principles put a brake on the cocksure eugenist who has fatuously believed that through wide sterilization of the “undesirable” and “unfit,” and through encouragement of marmge and reproduction on the part of the “desirable” and “fit,” he could eliminate “bad” strains and insure^evolution along “right” fines.

But the geneticists have shown that it is not so simple as all that. We are all carriers of bad genes. Environment is now getting a better “break.”

Too many strangely linked genes are involved, and we know very little about them. Human heredity cannot be charted like that of fruit-flies.

What is unfitness? What is unsocial behavior? How vague such concepts are. One sees monstrous behavior, as viewed by certain “respectable” standards, giving results actually rated, ultimately, as socially noble. To particularize is surely needless. Who can say that the “best” culture of the day is perfect? Were the Moors or the barbarians substandard? Is not the energy of a Capone, in itself, just as good as that of a Jonathan Edwards?

He who would, in our present state of knowledge, not hesitate blithely to direct the “evolution” of his fellows in eugenic fashion, himself falls into the defective class.	,

Says Hogben: “Generally speaking, we are not in a position to standardize the genetic composition of human beings.”—Medical Times and Long Island Medical Journal.

The Effect of Malnutrition on Intelligence.—Is there anything more necessary than adequate nutrition among our growing school girls and boys? Intelligence, to a certain extent, depends upon one’s feeling, mentally and physically. A sound mind and body depends upon nutrition. Psychologists have performed experiments in regard to the effect of malnutrition upon the expression of intelligence of the school child. In doing

Digitized by tjOOQle
233

this, they have found that the poorly nourished child was mentally defective. His transparent skin, dark encircled eyes, pinched chest and general condition indicated that the child was seriously undernourished. When the child was asked a question, he frequently stared, hesitated for an appreciable length of time before answering, then at that he seemed to “push” his voice. The child’s answers were slow and labored, scarcely above a whisper. From such indications and knowing a child’s home conditions, one is very likely to understand why the child was low in intelligence. Our question now is, how can we as citizens help to overcome such deficiencies which are preventable? Let us turn to school lunches and nutrition of the school child.—No. Carolina Health Bulletin.

COLONIAL DANCE

Danes by Littlefield Adapted by Martha Gable.

In the April issue we began the publication of a series of selected numbers from the Demonstration Program of the Philadelphia Convention of the American Physical Education Association.

One of the outstanding parts of the program consisted of a group of six “Dances Representing Periods In American History”. The first dance in this group, the Indian Dance, appeared in the November issue. The Colonial Dance is the second in the group. The other four dances consisting of the Western Ranch Dance, Early Twentieth Century Dance, Syncopation Dance, and Modern Dance will appear in that order in subsequent issues.—Editor.

COSTUMES OF COLONIAL DANCE

Half of group is dressed as boys, half as girls.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
234

Boys’ Costumes

Pattern—Butterick—Men’s Colonial 4262.

Materials—Suits are made of heavy sateen in 4 colors; garnet, bottle green, navy blue, and deep purple. Vests are made of fancy weave rayon satin in white.

White stockings and black shoes.

Shoe buckles are of metal 3” x 2", fastened to shoes with black elastic one inch wide. [These can be made in a school metal shop.]

Girls' Costumes

Pattern—Butterick—Women's Colonial 1087.

Materials—Flowered cretonnes are used for the dresses. Ruffles are bound in bias tape, the color used harmonizing with the predominating color of the cretonne—rose, green, blue, or lavender. Hooping is placed 8 inches from the bottom of the skirt. Skirts are ten inches from the floor.

Pantalettes are of white cambric hung by elastic from just above the knee. Two ruffles of 4 inch lace are placed on the bottom of the pantalettes.

Hats are made of an elliptical piece of cardboard, 10 inches by 13 inches, and covered with cretonne. This 4s attached to a head band of cardboard [also covered with cretonne], one inch deep in front graduated to three inches deep in back. Ruffled tarlatan to match dress trimming is massed over the head band in back, and under the elliptical crown. The hat is tied under the chin with* 1-4 inch black tape, fastened to top of the hat so that it is

gulled down on the sides in bonnet fashion. White stockings and high heeled lack slippers are worn.

’v usic: “Amyrillas” Air, Rri I/nus XIII by Henry Ghys. Published by The^d^re Presser Co., Philadelphia.

Number of Participants: 48 girls and 48 boys [girls may, of course, dress as b^ys].

Formation: Couples, inside hands grasped, Girls’ outside hands grasp skirts.

0—Boy	X—Girl.

A\»omNt.e

X o



JCO

I

o

I

o+

V

Ox	• X	OK
ox	OK	ox
Ox	OX	
		

OIK.	OX	OX

ox	ox	ox



HfNOf

■t

0

z

fc

a

d

<

Ar O *

Entrance in columns of couples in lines shown by arrows to formation as indicater1. in the above diagram.

Note:—In the final step of entrance there is a lateral change of positions so that when a turn about is taken, the couples on each side are facing the audience v ith the b y on the left of the girl. Thus in the final position the O’s and X’s will be opposite to what the diagram above shows.

Digitized by kjOOQle
235

PART I — ENTRANCE STEP

All begin with the outside foot—boy left foot, girl right foot.

Boy's right hand is over girl’s right shoulder [arm in rear] grasping her right hand. Left hands are grasped in front.

1.	Step forward on outside foot—1, close with inner

foot—2, step forward on outside foot—3, point forward with inner foot 4, repeat the same beginning w ith the inner foot.............. 2 Measures

2.	Boy—Repeats steps under 1. above.

Girl—Executes three step turn left beginning with outer foot [turning under b^y's right arm]—1, 2, *

3 and point forward v ith inner foot—4, then continues forward with step, close, step, and point beginning with inner foot—5, 6, 7, 8...... 2 Measures

3.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 three times ...... 12 Measures

Total ........................................ 16 Measures

Note: The first 8 measures of the music are used for entering. These measures may be repeated until all couples have reached their positions.

With the last 2 measures as the couples have reached their positions, partners exchange places and face the audience as follows:

Partners face each other grasping right hands. They exchange places with the same steps as in No. 1 above. [They begin with the inside foot of the first formation— boy right, girl left]—1, 2, 3, 4, both step away from each other, girl left foot, boy right foot—5, both face each other and girl steps right in rear of left, boy closes left foot to right—6, girl curtsey, boy bow—7, 8. [Total two measures].

AOOiCNCC

ox	OK	ox	ox	OX
ox	OX	ox	ox	OK
ox	OX	ox	Ox	OX
xo	XO	xo	xo	xo
KO  Xo	xo  xo	XO  x«	XO  XO	xo  XO

OK OK • K

Ox

xo

KO

KO

KO

5

o

*

•<

AwOlCMCt

Showing couples in place after partners have exchanged places

PART II

Note: The second 8 measures cf the music are repeated to complete this part. Partners are facing each other.

1.	Grasp left hands, bnth begin left and slow w-altz balance step left forw ard [tow ard each other]—1,

2,	3, 4 [heels are raised cn 2 and lowered on 4],

repeat right backward—5, 6, 7, 8 ............ 2 Measures

2.	Both take three step half turn left [crossing over and facing each other on last count] 1, 2, 3, print right forward—4, girl steps right backward while boy closes right to left—5, 6, girls curtsey,

boys bow 7, 8 ............................;__ 2 Measures

Digitized by t^ooQle
236

3.	Grasp right hands and repeat No. 1 and No. 2 beginning right [turn right] both returning to first

place—16 counts ................................ 4	Measures

4.	Repeat No. 1, No. 2, and No. 3 [32 counts] but during the last 8 counts the girl takes the three step turn right retaining grasp of right hand and finishing on right foot standing in front of boy

E)oth now facing audience]—1, 2, 3, 4 then waltz alance step left diagonally backward—5, 6, 7, 8...

The boy does not execute the last three step turn, but repeats two waltz balance steps [right and left] moving to rear of girls 1-8 .......... 8	Measures

Total .....................................

Note: See Diagram below for final position.

16 Measures

The girl is on the audience side of the boy and all are facing as the single arrows indicate.

PART III.

Note: The music for this part is marked “Minore” and contains the equivalent of 9 measures. In order to get 8 measures the latter half of the 4th full measure is to be omitted as well as the half measure at the end of the strain. These eight measures are to be repeated.

The couples in groups 1 and 4 begin left while those in 2 and 3 begin right. Thus groups 1 and 2 will move away from each other and groups 3 and 4 will do likewise.

Each boy in groups 1 and 4 grasps girl’s left hand with his left hand in front, and girl’s right hand with his right hand at girl’s waist in rear.

The boys in groups 2 and 3 do opposite.

1.	For boys and girls in groups 1 and 4.

Step balance position [no hop] left diagonally forward—1-2, step Swing right diagonally backward —3-4, girls execute three step turn left diagonally forward, passing in front of boy—5, 6, 7, point right diagonally forward—8. The boy in the meantime takes 3 short steps left diagonally forward—5, 6, 7, and points right diagonally forward—8 ............................................ 2	Measures

Digitized by Google
237

Note: Groups 2 and 3 begin to the right with the same steps. All groups during these steps have moved away from the

center.

2. Repeat opposite [toward center] 8 counts................... 2	Measures

3. Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 .................................... 4	Measures

4. Repeat as jn 1 but instead of three step turn the girls in groups 1 and 4 step left diagonally forward on 5, front cross step right on 6, step left sideward on 7, and point right diagonally forward

on 8 .............................................. 2	Measures

[Boys take rear cross step right]

[Note: Groups 2 and 3 do opposite].

5.	Repeat opposite ...............................   2	Measures

6.	Repeat No. 4 and No. 5 .......................... 4	Measures

Total ................................... 16	Measures

Note: Change for groups 2 and 4 on last 4 counts.

Girls turn right in 2 counts stepping right and left facing partner then step right backward and curtsey—5, 6, 7, 8. Boys step right backward, close left to right—5, 6, bow 7, 8. Formation as shown in Diagram II has again been assumed.

PART IV.

Couples facing Audience.

1. Step forward with outer foot—1, point with inner foot—2, repeat beginning with the inner foot—3, 4 repeat beginning with outer foot—5, 6, raise inner

leg forward—7, 8............................. 2	Measures	•

2.	As first four counts of 1 above—1, 2, 3, 4, two glides sideward [boy right, girl left] both crossing to opposite sides girl passing in front—5, 6, both step sideward [boy right, girl left] and close in the

form of a waltz balance step—7, 8 .........   2	Measures

3.	Boy is now on right side, girl on left side. 'Inner hands are grasped.

Repeat 1 and 2, but moving backward, 16 counts 4 Measures

4.	Repeat No. 1, No. 2 and No. 3, but with the last 4 counts the following changes take place:

The couples in the odd numbered columns [see Diagram IV] finish the glides and close with the boy in front [on the audience side] of the girl and all face right to make a single line composed of boys and girls, standing side by side with the boy on the left side.

The couples in the even numbered columns, finish with glides and waltz balance step with the girl in front [audience side] of the boy, and all face left nine 1 faces line 2, line 3 faces line 4, and line 5 faces line 6] ...............................   8	Measures

Total ..................................... 16	Measures

Digitized by v^ooQle
238

i » i

X

X

X

Showing the formation on one side of the floor.

PART V.

Two lines now work as a unit. Thus, for example line 1 moves toward line 2, the members of each line passing through the opposite line to form on the opposite side. See arrows in Diagram IV. The girls in the odd numbered lines pass on the audience side. Partners facing each other.

1.	Step balance left diagonally forward—1, 2, step swing right backward—3, 4, three step turn left sideward [away from partner] and point right away

from partner—5, 6, 7, 8 ...................... 2	Measures

2.	Repeat 1 beginning right but take a two step turn right [in place of the three step turn] on 5, 6, then

point right forward toward partner on 7, pause 8	2	Measures

3.	Repeat No. 1 and No. 2 beginning to the right,

16 counts ................................... 4	Measures

4.	Repeat No. 1, No. 2, and No. 3 ............... 8	Measures

Total ................................. 16	Measures

Note: The music of this part is marked “Minore” and contains the equivalent of 9 measures. In order to get 8 measures the latter half of the 4th full measure is to be omitted as well as the half measure at the end of the strain. These eight measures are to be repeated.

Girls move forward from lines and form a circle, then with right hands grasped and raised toward center of circle they move clockwise around the circle.

Boys move away from the audience and form a straight line [front rank] facing the audience. See Diagram.

• PART VI.

Showing two lines Boys and girls execute the same steps.

Digitized by Google
239

1. Step right forward—1, point left forward—2, repeat opposite—3, 4 then continue alternately

right and left for 28 more counts ............. 8	Measures

Note: During this time the girls have formed a circle and have completed one full rotation of the circle. The boys have formed a straight line and stand waiting for partners to come around, v horn they j in in the circle.

2.	The boys move forward each meeting his partner and grasping her left hand v ith his right [shoulder high.] The circle of couples continue to rotate until each couple gets nearest to its original place in the line when the circle formation is broken up each couple returning to the starting point. This is done with the steps described under 1 above and

takes 32 counts ............................... 8	Measures

Total .................................. 16	Measures

PART VII.

With the last step, all couples have returned to original places in formation as indicated in Diagram II. Partnlrs face each other and assume a regular social dancing position. The couples now move on the lines of a square as indicated in Diagram.

no

0—Boy X—Girl

1.	The boy takes step balance right forward, while the girl takes step suing left backward—1, 2, the boy takes step su ing left backward while the girl takes step balance right forward—3, 4, the boy takes 3 steps forward and pauses while the girl

takes 3 steps backward and pauses—5, 6, 7, 8. 2	Measures

[During this part the boy has the left shoulder toward audience and girl has the right shoulder toward the audience.]

2.	Both execute 1-4 turn left so that the boy faces the audience and the girl has her back toward the audience. The boy takes step swing right backward and a step balance left forward while the girl takes a step balance left forward and a step swing right backward—1, 2, 3, 4 the bry takes 3 steps backward and pauses while the girl takes 3

steps forward and pauses—5, 6, 7, 8 ......... 2	Measures

3.	Both execute another 1-4 turn left and repeat the

steps under 1 above—8 counts ................ 2	Measures

Digitized by LjOOQle
240

4.	Both take a further 1-4 turn left and execute the

steps under 2 above—8 counts ............... 2	Measures

Total .................................. 8	Measures

Note: With the last 4 counts the couples return to the first formation as indicated in Diagram II. The members of the couples separate during these 4 counts, step into their positions and on the last two counts the boy bows while the girl executes a curtsey. The last note of the music of this part is held to give time for the curtsey and bow.

PART VIII.

1.	Repeat 1, 2, and 3 of Part II—32 counts ....... 8	Measures

Instead of executing the bow and curtsey on the

last two counts the couples form facing their exits. The boy is on the left and slightly in rear of his partner. Left hands are grasped in front while right hands are grasped, at the girl’s waist [arm in rear of girl]. In sections 1 and. 4 the girls are on the audience side and. they begin the exit step below with the right foot. In sections 2 arid 3 the boys are on the audience side and they begin the steps right. See Diagram below.

2.	The couples exit in the directions indicated by the arrows in Diagram VII, each section toward its exit in the comer. The following steps are used for the exit.

a.	Step balance left [right] forward—1, 2. Step swing right [left] backward—3, 4. 4 Glides left [right] obliquely forward toward exit—5, 6,

7,	8 ...............................  :...... 2	Measures

b. Repeat ..................................... 6	Measures

Total ..................................... 16	Measures

The exit step is repeated until all are off the floor.

Formation and direction for exit.

Digitized by t^ooQle