MIND AND BODY

Vol. 37	DECEMBER,	1930	No.	391

TUBL1SHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STEC^EH, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. SETCHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Fodv, >"ew Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at hew Ulmf Minnesota, under the Act rf March 3, 1879.

--------------------------------------—:-----------+

Original articles and reprint§

,p_J----------------------------------------------—♦

WHAT TYPE QUESTIONS?

John E. Boyd

To what extent is the thinking of secondary school pupils exercised?

Is there a tendency to use only certain types of thought questions to the exclusion of others?

Obviously the average school child has plenty of opportunity to answer questions. Teachers are not loath to ask them, and it is sometimes astounding to tally the number of questions that are asked during a lesson period. When one consideres the large amount of time spent on the question and answer method, it seems imperative that teachers should analyze the quality of the questions which they ask and determine whether or not improvement in the art of questioning is a problem of prime consideration.

Romette Stevens in an ear’y study of this topic says: “It seems to be very generally assumed that teachers know by a

EDITOR’S NOTE: The following splendid article ‘‘What Type Questions?” by John E. Boyd will serve as a fitting conclusion to the series of articles on Lesson Planning In Health Education which have appeared monthly since the April issue.

Digitized by t^ooole
238

sort of intuition when to ask questions and how to ask them— that if the content of the lesson and the general plan of presentation have been adequately plotted, the questions will come of themselves and will in some way adjust themselves to the needs of the moment.”

As a supervisor of Health Education, my observation in many class rooms leads me to concur with Miss Stevens.

When we find the true teacher at work, we generally find, that he seeks through the skillful use of the question to draw from his pupils certain groups of facts related or unrelated. He supplies the incentive for his pupils to put these facts together in new relations and, if possible, to convert them into factors within the pupil’s experience. Thus the meaning of life is interpreted. In other words we may say that he is inciting his pupils to think by creating situations which call for the use of those facts which make up the content of his lesson.

How different is that type of teacher from the mechanical type who seeks in his questioning merely to drive home a certain daily assortment of facts gleaned from tne text book.

Frank M. McMurray in his introduction to a text written by J. W. Hall and Alice C. Hall states the case admirably.

“In college and university instruction, the question as a factor in teaching is of minor importance. The method of instruction being largely that of the lecture, there is little use for the question except as a test of results after the learning process is supposed to have been completed. In most of the text books for the elementary and high schools, it has the same place and rank, following the work of acquiring knowledge and merely testing the degree of understanding and memorization reached. In both cases getting knowledge means the getting of positive facts, and that is the task in which questions are not considered a necessary part.

“The rank of the question in active life is very different. No builder figures for an answer to a question unless tne situation has arisen that requires figuring. Answers alone, without the problems that called them forth, would be absurd. So in the field of politics, of business in general, and of scientific investigation, questions necessarily precede answers; they are the prerequisite to all thinking; they supply the motive for the effort as well as the basis for the selection and organization of the data. They are the key to the situation, determining the value that shall be attached to the answer itself.

“In the light of these facts the usual class room procedure in school and college is strange indeed. The positive facts offered there in lectures and text books are nothing more than answers to questions of some sort, data for the solution of problems supposed to be worth solving. Yet the questions themselves are overlooked; or, if included, they are so tardy in appearance that they fail of what ought to be their main purpose: i. e. to supply the motive for effort and a basis for the selection and organization of data.”
239

Dr. McMurray doubts whether children are supposed to think. It seems that their more commonly accepted object, at least in attending class, is to remember; to collect and retain facts that are answers to questions perhaps, but questions that have not yet arisen; questions that may arise in some distant future. In short, their present purpose as students is storage.

In the present study, one thousand forty-two questions were selected and classified as to the type of thought involved or as a question calling on memory only. Since I was primarily interested in questions involving thought and could find few questions of that kind in every day class room practice, I turned to the text books dealing with health education and sought there types of thought questions. There, at least, I could find a definite kind of question to measure—the review question—and need not run counter to other types of questions. The pupil’s texts selected for study are those approved for secondary schools by the department of superintendence in a large eastern city.

The second year Book of the National Conference of Supervisors and Directors—1929—says in effect that some attempts have been made to devise methods of evaluating activities by labeling them successes or failures, classifying the activities according to type, for example, listing questions as why, who, when, fact, etc. and rating them as good, fair, or poor. All of these methods have obvious limitations since investigations have shown that there is little agreement among observers of activities as to their relative value or quality because there is no common standard as the basis of comparison.

Monroe and Carter in a study of the use of different types of thought questions in secondary schools and their relative difficulty for students, have made a qualitative analysis of questions involving thought. The types of thought questions which they present may serve as an excellent standard for comparison. Their classification is as follows:

1.	Selective recall—basis given

2.	Evaluating recall—basis given

3.	Comparison of two things—on a single designated basis

4.	Comparison of two things—in general

5.	Decision—for or against

6.	Causes or effects

7. Explanation of the exact meaning of some phrase or

statement in a passage

8.	Summary of some unit in the text or article read

9.	Analysis (the word itself is seldom involved in the

question)

10.	Statement of relationships

11. Illustrations or examples (your own) or principles in

sciences etc.

12.	Classification (usually the converse of No. 11)

13.	Application of rules or principles in new situations

14.	Discussion

Digitized by v^ooQle
240

15.	Statement of aim—author's purpose in his selection or organization of material

16.	Criticism—as to adequacy, correctness, or relevancy of a printed statement or a classmate’s answer to a question on the lesson

17.	Outline

18.	Reorganization of facts

19.	Formulation of new questions

20.	New methods of procedure

It may be argued that it is not possible to judge accurately the mental processes stimulated by a question unless one is acquainted with the experiences of the pupil in the field of this question. What constitutes a thought question for one pupil may be merely a memory question for another.

It is agreed that the teacher has the advantage over the casual observer in that he knows better than anyone else what acquaintance a pupil has with a topic and what a text book states about it. It was in order to circumvent this that I selected questions from text books only; and, before classifying them, the treatment given the various topics by their authors was carefully studied. In this way I sought to eliminate the question which, considered casually, might be classified as a thought question, but, in reality, could be answered by simple memorization of the topic studied.

Furthermore, it may be pointed out that a question may involve several types of thought. In noting the type of thought I considered only that which deals with the response demanded by the form of the question. Implied operations of a simpler type were ignored.

Questions of a compound nature were classified according to their separate components.

The questions were taken from four topics: the muscular system, the digestive system, the respiratory system, and the circulatory system. It was thought that the topic might have something to do with the frequency of the types of thought questions in use: hence the selection of questions was confined to definite topics. This would also tend to reduce a possibly existing variable and would facilitate comparison of the types of questions given by different text books.

The following table shows the Frequency of Use of Different Types of Thought Questions in 1

Hygiene as Taken From Selected Texts:

1.	Selective recall.....

2.	Evaluating recall....

3.	Comparison — single..

4.	Comparison — general

Per Cent Of Use

Text	Text	Text	Text
A	B	C	D
5.7	11.9	11.1	18.5
9.1	9.7	15.0	5.5
8.1	5.9	6.1	0.0
4.8	3.0	5.4	4.0

Digitized by UjOOQle
241

5.	Decision—for or against.

6.	Causes or effects......

7.	Explanation ...........

8.	Summary ...............

9.	Analysis ..............

10.	Relationship ...........

11.	Illustrations or examples.

12.	Classification .........

13.	Application ............

14.	Discussion..............

15.	Statement of aim........

16.	Criticism ..............

17.	Outline ................

18.	Reorganization of facts..

19.	Forming new questions..

20.	New methods.............

1.0	2.9	3.2	0.5
19.2	8.9	16.7	17.5
4.7	2.2	5.2	4.0
0.0	0.0	0.0	0.0
1.3	1.5	5.0	2.0
0.7	0.0	0.3	1.5
2.0	0.7	0.0	1.5
1.7	0.0	0.0	0.0
0.3	4.5	1.1	1.0
2.0	2.2	0.7	2.5
0.0	0.0	0.0	0.0
1.3	0.0	0.0	0.0
0.3	0.0	0.0	0.0
0.0	2.2	0.3	1.0
0.0	0.0	0.0	0.0
0,0	1.5	0.0	0.5
62.2	57.1	70.1	60.0
37.8	42.9	29.0	40 0

Total per cent..............

Per cent of Questions involving memory only......................

Probably the most significant conclusion to. be drawn from this investigation is that teachers and authors of tqxt books are not sufficiently conscious of the types of questions which they are accustomed to ask.

Although authors of text books show a very definite tendency to include a rather large per cent of thought questions in their lists for review, they lack a variety of thought types.

A very definite contribution to purposive class room teaching can be made by paying more attention to these types of questions:

The following shows a number of specimen questions covering the entire range of thought types and confined to one topic—

digestion:

1.	Selective recall:

What different parts of the world supplied your dinner yesterday?

2.	Evaluating recall:

What expensive foods would you avoid when you have little money to spend?

3.	Comparison of two things—single basis:

In what way is the human body superior to a machine in providing energy!

4.	Comparison of two things—in general:

How does a vegetable diet compare with a meat eating diet?

5.	Decision for or against:

Is the appetite affected by the manner in which a meal is served?

Digitized by ^ooQle
242

6.	Causes or effects:

Why should certified milk cost more than other milk?

Why are people who have infectious diseases forbidden bylaw in some states to work in restaurants?

7.	Explanation:

The poet has said:

“They are as sick that surfeit with too much,

As they that starve with nothing.”

8.	Summary

Make a list of all the sayings about diet and eating that you can get. Can you point out the sound and irrational features of each?

9.	Analysis:

See question No. 8

10.	Statement of relationships:

Show how the energy of the food which you ate for dinner has its origin in tne sun.

11.	Illustration or examples:

Show by example what effect an unbalanced diet may have on posture.

12.	Classification:

Here we have an illustration of a child suffering from rickets. Is this the result primarily of faulty nutrition or lack of exercise?

13.	Application of rules or principles:

We know that a cheerful person possesses a good appetite. How does the rule of cheerfullness apply to better digestion?

14.	Discussion:

Mrs. Julien was eating lunch in the school lunch room with her five year old son. He was not so hungry as she wished, so she fed him, giving him a mouthful before he had time to chew the preceding mouthful. His mouth was filled at the time, even when she was forcing him to drink a glass of milk. Would she make him fatter and stronger by this process?

15.	Statement of aim—author’s puipose:

Why does the author of this textbook ask questions at the conclusion of each section of his chapter on food? Why not wait until the conclusion of the chapter as do other text books?

16.	Criticism:

Criticise the following menu:

Macaroni with tomatoes and cheese

Boiled potatoes

White bread and butter

Grapefruit salad with crackers

Rice pudding

17.	Outline:

Fill in under the proper headings:

Digitized by
243

Digestive System I	II	III

Food element (A. Where digested	(A.	Where	absorbed

(B. What change takes

place	(B.	How	absorbed

18.	Reorganization of facts:

See Assignment No. 17

19.	Forming new questions:

Is there any question about this topic which we have not touched upon?

20.	New methods:

Suggest a plan for providing a daily school lunch for pupils in need.

ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF HEALTH EDUCATION, PHYSICAL EDUCATION, RECREATION.

Wm. A. Stecher.

(Continued from last month.)

PART II. HEALTH EDUCATION IN JUNIOR HIGH

SCHOOLS

I.	Aim

Improvement of personal, public and family well being through the development of adequate standards, wholesome attitudes, sound knowledge, adequate skills and good habits.

II.	Essentials of Organization and Administration

( Habits

< Knowledge and Skills ( Attitudes and Ideals

A.	Health Instruction

1.	Basic—By Health-conscious teachers in Science, Social Studies and Health Education classes. Should include all instruction in regular academic courses whose subject matter is so chosen as to facts, principles, and hypotheses, that rational health conduct might be based on this matter.

2.	Specific—By special Health teachers in Hygiene and Home Economics classes, instruction designed especially to modify health behavior and to continue health training of lower grades.

3.	Contributory—By Health-conscious teachers in Physical Education, English, Art, Music, etc., to include instruction designed to build health standards and habits, inculcate health ideals and develop an appreciation of bodily vigor.

B.	Health Service (Coordinated by Health Director)

1.	To cooperate with such agencies as the Board of Health, Palama Settlement, Social Service Bureau, also with the Nutri-

Digitized by UaOOQle
244

tion Department and Dental Hygiene Department, in order to accomplish the following:

a.	Discovery and correction of physical and mental defects.

b.	Prevention of the spread of communicable diseases.

c.	Improvement of school sanitary conditions.

2.	To fit the child’s school program to his mental and physical development.

3.	To interest parents in the school Health program and encourage them to assume as much responsibility as possible in improving the health of their children.

III.	Health and the Class Room Teacher

1.	Every teacher who receives a contract to teach in the public schools should have passed courses given in the normal school or university pertaining to health education.

2.	All teachers should be able to recognize the principal defects and should report same to the principal or health director of the school, who in turn should report them to the parents.

3.	All teachers should make a thorough investigation of all problem cases. Mental retardation is often due to a physical defect. Discipline problems are often primarily health cases.

4.	All teachers should keep close watch and report to the principal any cases of undue fatigue, nervousness or malnutrition.

5.	All teachers should note defective vision; often a student may make low grades due to the fact that he can not see figures on board, or the eye strain may become so great that he can read only for a short time.

6.	All teachers should be familiar with the ways in which infectious diseases are carried from one student to another.

IV.	Problems of Principals, Health Directors, Advisors and

Nurses

1.	See that buildings, lavatories, drinking fountains and cafeteria are as sanitary as possible.

2.	Report upon infectious or contagious disease to the proper authorities.

3.	Encourage parents to have the physical defects found in their children corrected.

4.	Secure the aid of all organizations whose duty is to look after public health.

5.	Promote health campaigns, health weeks, etc.

6.	Secure as much free literature on health as possible and so distribute it that every child comes in contact with it.

7.	Check on absentees. If a child is absent several days in a semester a check should be made with the school nurse and with the home to see what is the cause of absence. If it is a physical defect, steps should be taken to have it corrected.

8.	Make provision for mid-morning lunches and special lunches for underweight children who do not get proper food at home.

Digitized by CjOOQle
245

9.	Encourage teachers to use health cards in making a study of problem cases.

10.	See that adequate provisions are made for washing and bathing.

V.	Social Investigations

1.	There is always a correlation between the social environment of the home and the health of the student. Children coming from poor homes, as a rule, have poorer health than those coming from good homes.

2.	Parents in poor financial circumstances are often too proud to seek aid from the school or other institutions. In such cases the home should be visited by the school nurse or some one representing the school.

3.	Parents should always be encouraged to meet their own obligations, if possible. They should go to their family doctor or dentist if financially able.

4.	Records should be kept of all home investigations or of information gained by parents visiting school.

5.	Health and social records should be kept in the school office where all teachers may have access to them. Teachers should be encouraged to use these cards on all problem cases.

6.	Information gained from the health and social records is of great benefit in handling problem cases, either in discipline or scholarship.

VI.	Types of Physical Defects Most Common

1.	Defective teeth. This is by far the most common of all physical defects.

2.	Diseased tonsils.

3.	Poor eyes and defective vision,

a.	Conjunctivitis and Folliculosis.

4.	Defective Hearing and Infected ears.

5.	Tuberculosis.

6.	Heart defects.

VII.	Competitions

Competition between home rooms is one of the best ways to stimulate health activities throughout the school. Good methods are as follows:

1.	A Pennant, certificate, or emblem of some sort may be given to the home room that has thirty per cent or more of its members without physical defects.

2.	A trophy of some kind may be given to the home room whose members are rated one hundred per cent in health habits, such as bathing, brushing teeth, etc.

3.	A trophy or pennant may be given to the home room whose rating as milk drinkers is over a certain per cent.

4.	A grand prize may finally be given to the home room that has made the best showing in all health projects throughout the year. In this competition a definite number of points may be given for each health activity as follows:

Digitized by CjOOQle
246

Milk trophy ....................................  200	points

Trophy for 100% health habits ................... 200	points

Health projects.................................. 200	points

Trophy for low per cent of	physical defects.. 200	points

Physical activities, such as	a home	room team	200	points

Total ...................................... 1000 points

Note: Monthly, quarterly, or yearly inspections of home room students should be held, and demerits given for dirty or untidy rooms. Demerits also may be given to the home room that has any member with dirty or untidy clothes, dirty teeth, dirty skin and nails. These demerits should be deducted from the points already earned by the home room group.

VIII.	Ratings

Home rooms may be rated on the following points:

1.	Efficiency of their Health captain as a member of the school Board of Health.

2.	Cleanliness of school rooms.

3.	Number drinking milk.

4.	Cleanliness of pupils.

5.	Sores and infections untreated.

6.	Home room health project.

7.	Physical vigor of all pupils.

8.	Physical defects corrected.

IX.	Projects

The types of activity used in Junior High Schools to motivate health education naturally differ from those in the lower grades. The following projects have been used successfully:

I.	A Health Club. An activity for Junior High School pupils.

I.	Officers.

1.	President. This officer shall preside at all meetings of the club and shall serve as chairman of the executive committee.

2.	Vice President. Shall preside at all meetings in absence of president. Shall be a member of the executive committee.

3.	Secretary and Treasurer. Shall collect and hold all dues and fees; keep minutes of all meetings; keep record of attendance; notify members of meetings, both regular and special.

4.	Advisers. There may be any number of persons acting in the capacity of adviser, such as the school doctor, school nurse, physical director, health director, or any teacher who is definitely interested in health and whose training is adequate for leadership in such a group.

II.	Committees.

1. Executive Committee. Composed of one or more advisers, president, vice president, and secretary-treasurer. The

Digitized by CjOOQle
247

duties of this committee shall be to act upon all matters concerning the organization as a whole.

2.	Sanitary Committee. Composed of three or more members of the organization and, if possible, one adviser. The duties of this committee shall be to inspect school building, lavatories, shower and wash rooms, school kitchens, cafeteria and school grounds. It shall make reports of inspections to the club as a whole; it also shall make recommendations to the club as to the proper action to be taken. After due deliberation the club will make its report and recommendations to the proper authorities where prompt action is insured. Their reports may be made to the principal of the school, to the Board of Health, to the building inspector of the city and county, to the nurse, to the cafeteria director, to the home room teachers individually or as a group. This committee under the direction of a capable adviser may perform certain technical tests, such as testing drinking water* testing foods and school supplies for impurities. This committee also may investigate and eradicate fly and mosquito breeding places.

3.	Committee on Health Habits. It shall be the duty of this committee to promote activities throughout the school that will stimulate health knowledge and health habits. It shall conduct health contests to promote proper health habits.

4.	The Safety Committee. It shall be the duty of this committee to promote all safety measures of the school. It shall take necessary precautions to make all phases of school life free from possible injury and accident. It shall try to remove all hazards in school and community.

5.	Publicity and Research Committee. This committee shall have charge of posting all health materials; it shall publish in the school paper and in special bulletins the work of the health club. It shall prepare new topics for discussion at each meeting of the club. This committee shall keep all statistical records and shall pass them on from one year to the next. It shall publish the results of its work each year. Examples of such work are as follows:

1929-1930 1930-1931

Sleeping with windows open ............ 70%-------------90%

Brushing teeth twice a day ............ 75%-------------80%

Washing face, hands, neck and ears .... 32%-------------56%

Drinking no tea or coffee ............. 30%-------------50%

Bathing once a day .................... 45%-------------63%

II. Health Captains.

The personnel of the Health Club also may be composed of one member, a health captain, representing each home room. The organization into a Board of Health may then be followed out just as stated in the organization of the Health Club.

In small schools with a small student body, two or more health captains may be appointed or elected from each home room.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
248

One advantage of the captain organization over the health club is that through this kind of organization each home room may be reached 1 hrough its captain, and the captain may be made the leader in all health activities in his home room.

III.	Health Play-Writing Contest.

The Health Playwriting project is very appropriate in preparation for special health observances such as Child Health Day.

I. Purpose—To interest every child in school in health by

1.	Stimulating the acquisition of health knowledge through reading, observation of health practices and interviewing of health specialists.

2.	Presenting gained knowledge in dramatic form, so as to increase the interest in the subject matter.

II.	Time—Approximately 5 weeks.

III.	Incentive—Any suitable incentive which the school may wish to use, such as awarding 100 points towards a health banner, or giving a special certificate or banner for the best play written and honorable mention for the three next best.

IV.	Procedure.

1.	Discussion in home room classes or origin and purpose of health day, and means of celebrating it.

2.	This opportunity should be taken to correlate English and health, and the plays can be organized and written in English classes.

3.	The best play from each class should be chosen by the teacher and pupils and turned in to the contest chairman (who may be a member of the faculty or a responsible student).

4.	The best play will be picked Dy judges chosen by a student committee.

5.	The play will be presented on May Day by the class receiving the highest award, as part of the Health Program.

V.	Activities Involved.

1.	Group discussions of health in general and Health Day in particular.

2.	Reading of health articles, stories, and plays in magazines, newspapers, and text books.

3.	Group discussions of suitable topics, interesting material, resulting in sound knowledge.

4.	Group and individual assembling of material and organization of material into dramatic form.

5.	Interviewing health specialists in schools and other institutions.

a.	for health information.

b.	to secure judges for plays.

6.	Production of play.

a.	choosing cast.

b.	designing and making costumes.

c.	dramatization.

Digitized by

Google
249

IV.	Additional Projects.

1. Health Play, 2. Poster Contest, 3. Milk Posters, 4.1n-dividual Health record, 5. Class health record, 6. Health scrap book, 7. Campaign against Mosquitoes, 8. Campaign against Flies,

9.	Cleaning dirty comers of buildings, 10. Cleaning dirty comers of ground, 11. Health movies, 12. Health Editorials in school paper, 13. Individual essays or talks on health, 14. Health comer or table in library where health literature books, papers, and etc. are kept, 15. Children make and keep graphs of their own weight.

(To be continued.)

THE BABY’S EDUCATION

Helen T. Wooley, Director, Institute Child Welfare Research, Teachers College, Columbia University, Committee on the Infant and Preschool Child, White House Conference on Child Health and Protection.

It may seem absurd to talk about a baby’s education, but modem research in child development is teaching us that human beings learn more in the first few years of life than they do in any other equal period. Intelligent interest in the proper training of infants, therefore, is growing and the fact that the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection included a consideration of the normal preschool child and his educational problems, when it met last November in Washington, is merely a sign of the times.

Kindergartens are no longer a novelty and we are gradually becoming used to the idea of nursery schools in many of our large cities, but when all is said and done a baby’s first teachers are usually his mother and father and upon their wisdom and patience as teachers depends much of the baby’s future happiness and success in life.

Some of the things a baby “learns” to do, of course, are simply part of his growing up and parents and teachers have very little to do with the process, aside from providing a favorable environment and good food, enough sleep, proper clothes, exercise and fresh air. But many of the Baby’s accomplishments depend entirely upon his home training. This difference between the parent’s functions as a “good provider” and as an educator is clearly illustrated by the difference between the two great accomplishments of the baby’s first two years—walking and talking.

A baby really does not need to be taught to walk. First he crawls on all fours, and then because he is a human being, and not a puppy or a kitten, instead of developing greater speed on all fours and letting it go at that, he gradually learns to walk erect, “like a little man”. Proper food will, of course, have made his legs strong and dependable, and proper clothes will leave his body unhampered, and mother and father can help by holding his

Digitized by (^.ooQle
250

hand or collar to guide his first uncertain steps, but after all, the final triumph belongs to mother nature.

Talking, however, is a different matter, for when the baby’s vocal organs mature and he begins to make articulate sounds, his family become his teachers whether consciously or otherwise. He learns whatever language he hears with the very intonations and pet phrases of his elders—the Chinese baby, for instance, does not inherit any vocal control which makes it easier for him to learn Chinese than any other language.

Most babies adopt sounds with meanings before they actually learn to talk. They make one sound which means “feed me, I am hungry”, another which means “play with me, I want to be amused.”, and another which means “I am sleepy, put me to bed”, long before they have the words to express these ideas, but many babies begin to say a few words by the end of their first year, and a baby who is not talking, to a limited extent, at least, by the time he is eighteen months old should be regarded with concern by his parents.

The names of people and familiar objects are the words which most babies learn first—mother, father, ball, milk, etc. Then come the action words,—run, walk, get up, get down and the like.

At this stage mothers and fathers must be patient teachers in helping the baby to increase his vocabulary. For instance, the first animal he learns to recognize and call by name, may be his kitten, and all other four-footed, furry creatures immediately become to him, “kittens”, a squirrel is a “little kitty”, a dog— perhaps even a horse, is a “big kitty”, and the mother must for the moment turn naturalist, to point out the differences between these fascinating creatures. She must also be willing to listen to endless prattle about them.

No baby learns to talk without a great deal of practice. Therefore grown-up members of the family must be willing to endure and even to encourage baby speech, instead of becoming bored and falling back on the old adage that “children should be seen and not heard”. Of course the mother must teach her baby “manners”,—not to interrupt conversations and to giveother people a chance to speak. But grown-ups sometimes forget that this rule should work both ways, and having taught the baby not to interrupt the conversation of his elders, they ruthlessly break into his conversation. Parents must teach correct pronunciation and correct forms of language, helping the baby to grow up and away from “baby talk”, instead of encouraging peculiar pronunciations, just because they are so cunning, and they must also learn to conceal their amusement, for babies are very sensitive to ridicule and quick to be inhibited by it.

If the baby’s first experience with grown-ups has led him to see them as great creatures, given to sudden whims and un-

Digitized by LaOOQle
251

accountable bursts of laughter, he is likely to become shy and keep his youthful problems to himself. But if the baby grows to school age, knowing mother, father and adult members of his family only as teachers who are always helpful and kindly, a firm foundation has been laid upon which school and home can build his education.

SOME FACTS ABOUT SOME FADS*

William Gerry Morgan, M. D.p Washington, D. C.

Business about health increases fear, the great enemy of mankind, and impairs the serenity which is the basis both of health and happiness." Such was the opening sentence of an address which Dr. Robert Hutchinson, of London, delivered before the 98th. Annual Session of the British Medical Association at Winnipeg this last month, at which I had the privilege of being present.

This appears to me to be a timely and not inappropriate note of warning. Dissipation in any direction in the long run is always destructive, not alone in pursuit of enjoyment of the moment but quite as much if it be in the attempt to cure unemployment cr body ills.

When one studies the vast health activities of our generation and realizes the immense amount of time, money and energy expended by the enormous numbers of individuals engaged in these activities, we sometimes wonder what is to be the sum total of the result therefrom. Certain it is that the first and immediate result is as Dr. Hutchinson has said, to arouse in the minds of the public fear of impending chimerical disaster. This leads many unthinking people into all sorts of unwholesome fads and practices which more or less seriously undermine their physical health and render unstable their mental and moral balance.

It was said 2000 years ago that “He that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things,” which is as basic a rule of conduct today as it was then. How sadly we of today have fallen away from the precept of right living.

Perhaps nowhere in all the world do people tend to swing to extremes of conduct so much as right here in our own land. This tendency to plunge into extravagances in all directions is born of an environment in which opportunity and material means and the abundance of human enen^y are unlimited, incident to the development of a new and vastly rich country.

*Address of the President of the American Medical Association, delivered at the opening session of the International Conference and Exposition of the American Bakers’ Association, Atlantic City, September 22nd. Reprint from Long Island Medical Journal.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
252

A successful reign through fear alone is never long enduring, and usually is productive of evil practices which bring distress and suffering in their wake.

A child is unfortunate, indeed, who is brought up in a household where fear and anxiety rules. Even though the anxiety is directed toward his protection, he rarely enjoys the robust health of the playmate for whom little thought is expended in health matters. I may go a step further and express the thought that our duty toward the child does not end in shielding him from the development of the fear complex. We should attempt to develop in him a robust courage of thought and speech as well as physical fearlessness. It is gratifying to know that a step in this direction is being taken in some of our schools, even in the primary grades. This is being done by requiring at frequent intervals the children to describe in their own words before the school their impression of some outside occurrence. In this way, in the years to come, we shall develop a large number of men and women who will have the gift of expression and the courage of their convictions. This also teaches the habit of observation and clear thinking in early years, which should to a degree protect them later on from being too readily led away by unsound fads and fancies.

Faddists of every type are the curse of modem civilization, and though each in turn is but short lived, yet there is always another to take his place. It is a curious psychological fact that the failure of one fad after another to satisfy the needs of the gullible public, does not even sufficiently assault their intelligence to cure them of the fad habit; the age-old belief in the pot of gold at the rainbow’s end; the eternal longing for the short cut to sound health, happiness and riches.

There can be little doubt that the number of individuals who believe that this or that particular type of food or diet is necessary to good health, overshadows all other types of faddists put together. The food faddist who believes that constipation is the source of all mental, nervous and bodily ills, and that the cure of this super-devil is the eating of “roughage” is perhaps one who is guilty of the greatest sin, and leaves behind a trail of suffering which does not end, when his fancy being caught by some other fad, he turns away from over-engorgement of indigestible and highly injurious food-stuffs.

Constipation of itself, in an otherwise healthy individual, rarely if ever produces disease, and thus is more or less inconsequential. In such individuals, if ignored, the bowel habit will be spontaneously restored when the accumulation in the bowel reaches a point to stimulate the act of defecation. The harm begins with the misdirected effort to force bowel evacuation by unsuitable means such as eating over-stimulating and highly irritating indigestible foods, which as I have said are classed under the obnoxious term of roughage. These types of foods, if eaten in excessive amounts or constantly, ultimately set up

Digitized by CaOOQle
253

areas of local irritation which sooner or later develop into low-grade actual inflammation. Such areas of inflammation can, and very frequently do, lead to the development of more serious disease entities such as ulcer and may even so disturb the individual body cells in that location as to stimulate riotous growths developing into cancer.

I have mentioned briefly this chain of pathological events in order to emphasize the inadvisability of the widespread use of many inappropriate types of foods, among which I believe bran to be.

This brings me to the specific consideration of the use of bread, “our daily bread,” which is in truth the staff of life of all civilized peoples, a small, a very small percentage of whom habitually turn aside from this important foodstuff, for one reason or another, probably the chief of which is to induce changes in body weight. The nutritive quality of much of the white bread produced at the present time has undergone improvement through the incorporation of larger quantities of milk, thus making it a much more valuable foodstuff, largely obviating the criticism of white-flour bread, which the advocates of whole wheat broadcast with ever-increasing vehemence.

These faddists specifically point out that vitamines B and C being inherent in the bran content of the wheat is lost in the milling processes during the production of refined flours, which is undoubtedly true. Nevertheless, this deficiency although slight is somewhat compensated for by the addition of the milk in the processes of bread making. And further, because bread is usually eaten with butter and other foodstuffs which supply vitamines more abundantly. The vitamine content of bran is of little real value to the human economy because bran itself is not only not digested and does not readily give up these necessary elements but is in itself an irritant to the alimentary mucus membrane and interferes with the digestion and assimilation of other foods. Further, as has been pointed out by Dr. Fishbein and others, “Cereals are not to be looked on as the dominant source of vitamines in any event, so that the comparison of wheat in different degrees of milling extraction seems somewhat gratuitous.” If whole wheat bread had been proven to be as wholesome as white flour bread the war-time U. S. Food Administration would have insisted on the use by the nation of whole wheat flour exclusively. This it refused to be coerced into doing, even as a patriotic measure.

Investigations carried on by McCance and Lawrence in England in 1929 as pointed out by Dr. Fishbein, showed that “in advocating whole meal bread for general use whether in time of need or in times of plenty, it should be remembered that not only men but also women and children are concerned, and that all the experiments on which the arguments are based have been carried out on animals or adult males. Children are veiy intolerent of high cellulose diets, and, for some, brown bread is

Digitized by Google
far too irritating, even if given whic?® Jf whj~h ^ ^ * constipation,—in time of peace, of course,' mcn Dnn# ' tk grown-op population, if they have choice, will never eat whoK	'«ml	Wmks

they like it, no matter how specious the advertlSfat up in a ho'semat. bat tte-may force their children to eat it in the belief t*L. the anxiety tisy at doing them good. One should therefore be cautious ift*^jobust whole meal bread generally.”

No single food contains all of the necessary qualities, on\ food supplying what another lacks, and all necessary ingredients\ being present in sufficient quantities in the ordinary well-balanced \ • meal.

Frequently of late there have appeared articles not only by faddists but by physicians as well in which we are advised to give no thought to what we eat or the manner of its preparation, being guided entirely by the cravings of the appetite. This appears to me an unsound doctrine, one which if followed literally may lead us into all manner of digestive troubles.

As an illustration of the truth of this one needs but to mention the decay of teeth of children who are permitted to eat candies and other sweets to excess. However, it is claimed in some quarters that it is not the consumption of excessive quantities of sugar which causes the caries of the teeth, but rather the lack of proper mouth hygiene. With this view I cannot agree. Rather it appears to me that the fault in these individuals lies in two directions. First, the excessive indulgence in sweets causes an engorgement of the portal circulation, which through interference of the general circulation, prevents proper nutrition of the teeth; and secondly those who over-indulge in sweets habitually eat an insufficient amount of other foods supplying the necessary constituents for the growth and repair of the teeth.

I will refer to but one other faddist, from among the many that are rampant in the land, namely, the exercise faddists. The man who makes a god of keeping “utterly fit” through exercise. Exercise of mind as well as body, is wholesome and necessary for preserving normal function, but in none of the activities of life is it so essential to adapt the method to the individual needs and capabilities as in this. Intemperance in bodily exertion, by going beyond the elastic limit is productive of great harm. The effects of this sort of intemperance often are not apparent at the moment, but develop weaknesses which seriously handicap the individual in later life. This effect is particularly noticed in causing weakness of the heart muscle. It is generally recognized that athletes are not long-lived, and frequently die suddenly. I have a feeling that a large proportion of those who are reported in the daily papers as having died from acute indigestion fall into this class, hence the same or greater care should be given to the type and degree of bodd-exercise as to other activities, particularly when the individu1’ reached the middle decade of life. It is unwise for one w'

Digitized by

Google
255

radiarar fifty years been of sedentary habits suddenly to plunge into pe m iwinuous and active physical exercise.

aad'HjMy It may be that we doctors in our earnest desire to find truth fa am trough scientific research, are often too precipitate in feeding the MoWresults of our studies to the public before we ourselves fully fefa understand and valuate them.

' The laity, ever eager to be cured of some distressing disorder, f such, for instance, as cancer, are quick to seize upon each new method which offers the relief which they seek, rarely pausing to , learn whether such remedies have been proven of sound and practical value. Thus widespread disappointment and actual suffering is experienced, and often great financial loss is entailed. The medical profession keenly regrets and attempts to prevent premature publicity of unproven results of scientific research. It is unnecessary to mention specific instances of such regrettable occurrences, but they are constantly being exploited and the public should be on guard against being led along unsound paths, which end only in disappointment, sorrow and distress. It is ^ only fair to the medical profession to say that these premature disclosures often come about without the intent or desire of the ^ physician canying on that particular piece of research.

.	As	a guide to conduct a half truth, or a rule not understood,

('	is apt to lead the unwary far afield.

I regret to have to say that too often business men seize upon some new and untried discovery to exploit and make financial gain therefrom, to the undoing of the multitude. A cause for more profound regret is that, in some instances at least, when further scientific investigations have shown that the modi-I	cum of good which accrues from this or that new discovery is

I	far outweighed by harm to the user, and this fact brought with

indisputable proof to the manufacturers thereof they not only do not cease to manufacture but attempt to discredit the scientist, thus violating the golden rule. I dare make this assertion, since I feel sure that each one of you here present can call to mind practical illustrations of the truth of this statement.

In listening to Dr. Hutchinson's interesting address, I caught another phase which stuck in my memory: “Health, like happiness, is to be found, if at all, by the wayside, and the more you pursue it the more it flees from you.” This leads to the thought that whereas we should guard our health as a priceless possession we should not be constantly anxious about it. Much publicity is being given to the universal adoption of periodic health examinations, especially in this country. And whereas this practice has much to commend it, nevertheless I feel that it must be safeguarded from being made a fetish. Health consciousness is the slogan of the advocates of periodic health examinations. The danger in this practice becoming universal lies in developing the ill-health fear complex. Already this regrettable extreme is beginning to be seen in those of hypochondriacal tendencies. I wish to make my attitude toward periodic

Digitized by (^.ooQle
256

physical examinations quite clear. That this new departure in preserving the health of the nation has the very greatest possibilities for good I firmly believe. It is an established fact that any practice which is productive of good has equal potentialities for harm if improperly or intemperately employed, therefore it is necessary that the universal application of periodic health examinations should be safeguarded from the outset so as not to arouse the fear complex in the public mind. If we do this there is everything in the practice to commend it for widespread adoption.

Most physicians after a long life of experience in the practice of medicine feel that they could develop and lay down such basic rules of health for the guidance of people at large as would, in a couple of generations or so, abolish from the world a large percentage of the bodily ills to which human flesh is heir. Even if we could evolve such basic rules of right living and broadcast them daily to the public, for a generation we should find in the end that we had accomplished little good for the simple reason that most of the people all the time would not be willing to follow them with any degree of faithfulness and completeness. This is so because of the complicated nature of modem social life. Let me quote another sentence or two which I recall from Dr. Hutchinson’s address: “What we need for the attainment as individuals is not more knowledge but a change of heart. We hear such catch-phrases as a nation’s health is the nation’s wealth, and health is the country’s asset. Believe me, a country’s greatest asset is character.”

It seems to me that Hutchinson has stated for all time a great truth. A great nation is truly built upon sterling character.

This leads me to repeat what I have said in other speeches often during the past two years in my joumeyings hither and yon about the country, that by the ever-increasing tendency towards paternalism we are not only not teaching self-dependence but are steadily weakening character in the individual. We are robbing him of the habit of the necessity for the thought of tomorrow, permitting him to slumber on thoughtlessly through today. In the last analysis we shall find that this has not been a salutary practice. He that would enjoy a safe and comfortable old age must lay for himself the foundation in early life.

It is our sacred duty to think long and scrutinize carefully, before we lend our moral and material support to the thousand and one agencies for physical and moral uplift.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
257

THE PART PLAYED BY NATIONAL, STATE, AND LOCAL TUBERCULOSIS ASSOCIATIONS IN A TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL PROGRAM AND THE RELATION OF THE SCHOOL SYSTEM TO SUCH PROGRAM

By R. L. Carlton, M. D.

National, State and local tuberculosis associations are engaged in the same thing—to attempt a description of the aims and activities of each of these would be to describe many things about three times.

The program covers, in brief, treatment of the sick, detection of cases, prevention of disesase by promoting positive health conditions, prevention of infection by discovering sources and breaking contacts, making economic adjustments for patient and dependents, etc. You are all familiar with these the fundamental activities of the program.

The thing that is taking the grip out of tuberculosis, that is literally “knocking the spots out of it”—now and always is education-knowledge. This acquiring of knowledge about tuberculosis implies the education of doctors, nurses, teachers, and every health worker having anything to do with that disease.

In this field there has been no more important nor far-reaching activity than the work of the Medical Research Committee which the National organization established seven years ago. This committee under the leadership of Dr. William Charles White and other eminent scientists have made very important findings which will assist doctors in the early and more accurate diagnosis of tuberculosis. Why is the tubercle bacillus harmless in one individual or one family? Why are some people chronic invalids who apparently have had no more tubercle bacilli introduced into their bodies than others who remain well? Why does one individual recover rapidly and remain well? Why does another in apparently good health become rapidly ill and the illness become more grave resulting in chronic tuberculosis, with ultimate death? Can some serum or vaccine be found which will prevent tuberculosis? At least twenty-one scientific bodies are working with this research committee on just such questions. Grants of money from the National Tuberculosis Association make possible much of this work. Such an activity would obviously be an impossibility for State or local organizations.

Other efforts of the parent organization are devoted to social research. Why has not the tuberculosis death rate for men in industry declined as rapidly as for other groups? Why do young women between the ages of 15 and 25 have a* higher tuberculosis death rate than other age groups? Why does the negro death rate from this disease not come down as it has for the white race? These and other questions are being intensively and

Digitized by <^.ooQle
258

minutely studied from a good many angles and just as rapidly as information of value is gleaned from surveys and studies it is passed on to the affiliated associations for practical application.

Demonstrations at various places have been participated in by the National Association. That one at Framingham, Massachusetts, some years ago has served as a measuring stick for the intelligent guidance of many programs in many sections of the country. There is a demonstration under way at this time in the schools of Lynn, Mass. It is expected to continue for three years, at the end of which time there may be available facts and comparisons of value to all of us.

One of the means of interpreting to tuberculosis workers the facts developed by these demonstrations and studies is by various publications—for example, the booklet “Childhood Type of Tuberculosis” issued recently by the National organization is one of the most instructive and interesting pieces of information available; Tuberculosis Abstracts, a leaflet published monthly for physicians is of value; The American Review of Tuberculosis, a technical journal for specialists, is very helpful.

Another thing of great value to the tuberculosis campaign is the training of tuberculosis workers by an expert of the National Association who holds institutes at various points in the country. Many hundreds of secretaries, staff members, board members, social workers, health workers, and nurses have benefitted greatly and been made more efficient for their work by these institutes. Another thing the National does is to take junior staff members into their organization, train them thoroughly and then let them go into the field as secretaries or directors of local campaigns. Such activities are peculiarly those of the National Tuberculosis Association—State and Local organizations not being in position to attempt such things as the publication of scientific journals for the assistance of workers nor for the training of workers themselves.

The practical every-day application of the knowledge we have regarding tuberculosis must depend on State and local associations. The National organization renders available common materials for education, lays plans, conducts demonstrations, etc., but the local organization must persuade the man in the street.

The Early Diagnosis Campaigns which have been conducted for the last three years are splendid examples of the cooperative efforts of these various associations. The 1928 slogan—“You may have tuberculosis—let your doctor decide”—followed by 1929 which emphasized—“Early Discovery—Eearly Recovery”--and the slogan of this year—“Protect the Children from Tuberculo-is” have led many thousands of persons to seek an examination and medical advice. Cases of tuberculosis have been discovered and put on the proper paths to recovery. Children have been saved from the disease. Results have been achieved because the National Tuberculosis Association popularized the movement
259

b iy producing and distributing millions of leaflets, pamphlets a ;nd posters; by newspaper and magazine advertisements; by r Newspaper publicity; by securing the cooperation of companies a which do much advertising—one insurance company alone caus-i ;ng to be carried full page advertising in magazines reaching 21,000,000; the backs of millions of letters carried a sticker on /which was pictured the tousled head of a baby asking to be / “protected;” bill boards on every hill and in every glade men-/ tioned it. In short there was no excuse for any one to be ig-' norant of the fact that tuberculosis exists and that something ought to be done about it—and that’s where State and local organizations got in their work. It was their duty to inform directly the complaining man as to where he might go for an examination and what to do if trouble were found. It was their function to find the contacts and direct them to their physician or a clinic. Already in many places there had been provided largely because of first hand information delivered by the local and State associations, clinics, nurses, social workers, doctors really and truly interested in tuberculosis, sanatoria, preven-toria, camps. So, the National Association stimulates a general interest by nation-wide publicity concerning tuberculosis, its. early diagnosis, etc., and the state and local organizations actually seek out those persons who have the disease and tell them how they may be cured and how others may be protected from it—and while thdy are doing this they do not neglect other features of the health program, but they teach children good health habits, they instnict about the importance of heart defects, of diseased tonsils, of underweight, and the correction of such conditions; they have to do with housing and working conditions, with the economic affairs of the family—in fact a tuberculosis program is not a complete program if it leaves out any part of a general worth while public health program.

If a sanatorium, a preventorium, or a children’s camp is needed for the community it is not the National Association nor the official health agency as a rule which first stirs public sentiment to the point of making such provision—but generally it is the local tuberculosis organization which takes the lead and pesters a group of leading citizens until something is done. If a clinic or a public health nurse or special nutrition worker in the schools is the head, frequently it is the logical organization to make possible such activity as a demonstration and carry it along for a time until it can be taken over by the governmental health agency.

Now, to finance these matters of finding out about tuberculosis and of how to practically apply that knowledge, all these organizations are again found worlang closely together. National, State, and local depend very largely upon the receipts derived from the sale of Christmas seals to keep their work going. Here, as in other lines, the National acts as a clearing house and source of supply for the various things needed in the seal sale

Digitized by v^ooQle
I

260

campaign—and then all that is left for State and local organizd8 i-tions to do is merely to deliver the seals and collect for then# 1. The sale of seals has grown from three thousand dollars to mor, e than five million in not many years. —Excerpts from an article s in North Carolina Health Bulletin.	f

RECREATION IN GERMANY

Writing of the recreation facilities of Germany, Gustavus T. \ Kirby, treasurer of the National Recreation Association, says:	i

“While in Berlin, I visited numerous playgrounds, gymnasia, ' outdoor and indoor swimming baths, stadia and other recreation > grounds. Never have I seen any better, or for that matter as well laid out, equipped and supervised, and even more important than this, never have I seen boys and girls happier or more physically fit or taking more joy and pleasure in their exercise and play.

“The playgrounds as a rule are of sufficient acreage to have within one area the ideals which we have so often pointed out, for they are beautiful, not merely bare patches of ground but with a planting of shrubs and flowers. Trees of great size are preserved, and everything is done to appeal to the aesthetic and artistic as well as the athletic interests. There is generally a running track of 400 meters in circumference enclosing a lawn for football and other games and in fields contiguous to them, lawns and dirt areas for similar and other games. There is always a suitable building with dressing quarters, adequate showers and comfort rooms, and the location of these fields is such that they can be reached by an easy walk of five or ten minutes from the schools whose children they serve. The leadership is given by the school teachers who accompany the children in groups to the Playgrounds.

“Many of the games played are familar to us; some, however, were games new to me. Of course, football—soccer or association—is the popular game with the boys. A great deal of field handball is played and also a game something like our old-fashioned One-O-Cat, called Schlag Ball (Tag Ball) volley ball, some basketball, a considerable amount of rhythmic dancing, and a great deal of running and jumping both on the part of the girls and the boys.

“Tennis and golf are not played by nearly as large a number of people as play them in our country, though the Germans would like very much to have all play tennis as they consider the running, jumping, stooping ana quick change of position in tennis the very best kind of exercise for both boys and girls. The difficulty is one of money, for both tennis and golf require considerable areas for the games themselves and an expenditure beyond that which the German child can make for equipment.

“Swimming is exceedingly popular and the new swimming bath is the finest I have ever seen.

Digitized by f^ooQle
261

“One most important matter to which the Germans are giving great attention is that of exercise in the open air, and especially in the sunshine, with as little clothing on as modesty will permit. To carry still further into practice this beneficial effect of th? sun, most of the gymnasia and swimming baths, both outdoors and indoors, have sun roofs where one can take a sun bath without clothing of any kind.

“There is no gainsaying the fact that the boys and girls and youth of Germany are today to a large extent well developed and bronzed and more nearly approach the old Greek ideal than I have personally seen elsewhere outside of the a hletes who have come to the intercollegiate games from California.

“The fundamental ideas and ideals behind this German movement seems to me to be the exercise of the masses and the production of the old Greek ideal rather than merely the provision of huge stadia for hundreds of thousands of spectators few of whom have either the desire or opportunity to do more than applaud the gladiatorial contests put on for them by the favored few.

“On the subject of finance my inquiries brought to light the fact that the income from recreation activities is credited to the activity which produces it, and does not, as with us, go into the general fund. In this way the Germans are enabled to know more exactly than do we just how much of their recreational activities is being paid for through general taxation and how much from the income of the enterprise.

“As an indication of what German youth is doing, I mention three demonstrations witnessed by the delegates from all over the world to the Olympic Congress:

“A. Rowing by girls and boys and men and women of all ages from 16 to 76—over 600 crews and 3,000 rowers. In Germany, for racing and exercising purposes, there are available shells, barges and boats numbering over 11,000. There are over 1,000 rowing clubs, with 40,000 active and 50,000 supporting members. In 1929 the following races took place: 97 men’s rowing regattas with 1,471 races and 4,830 boa's containing 14,705 oarsmen. In addition to these adult races, there were 339 pupils’ and junior regattas with 1,408 boats and 7,300 oarsmen. There were 10 regattas in which women took part, there being in all 158 boats and 46 races.

“B. Running by men and boys and girls. Relay races on the road from Potsdam to Berlin. The ‘big’ race was of 25km.— 15 1-2 miles, teams to consist of 50, each relay to be of the distance determined by each team. In this race, 44 teams started.

“Over 5,000 men, women, boys and girls took part in a day’s races, which were as follows:

25km.—15 1-2 miles—for teams of 50 men

15 km.—about 10 miles—for teams of 30 men or boys

10 km.—about 6 2-3 miles—for teams of 25 boys and for teams of 25 girls, or mixed teams of boys and girls.

Digitized by c^ooQLe
262

“The advantage and theory of this character of relay race is that it means mass competition and not merely a few stars. Also, it means runners with different abilities and capacities. On the hills, the strong, sturdy men would be placed about 100 metres apart. On the level, a 400 or 800 metre man of a team of fewer numbers would run. Much planning and trying out before the races is always indulged in, thereby greatly adding to the interest.

“C. ‘An Olympic Hour’ which was given on the stage of the State Opera House and which included the following:	Run-

ning by men and women; gymnastic jumps and running games; body training of men; swinging falls; pu-h and blow; flying movements, marching and running in intricate figures; exercises by women with the 2.5 kg. weight—5.5 pounds; exercise by men with 15 kilos, weight—33.07 pounds; high jump; rope skipping by girls; gymnastic work by girls; more difficult gymnastic work by men including tumbling; eurythmic movement by girls; folk dancing by girls and boys; Pageant of Homage to the Olympic Flag and Flags of All Nations.”

Reprint from “Playground and Recreation” published by the National Recreation Association.

BODILY MECHANISM IN ATHLETICS

By Dr. Adolphe Abrahams, M. D., F. R. C. P., Hon. Medical Officer, British Olympic Team, 1928.

In another article I dealt wtih some mechanical principles of progression based mainly on anatomy and I pointed out that although broad general principles had some validity, on the whole individual peculiarities entered into the problem to such an extent that general propositions could with difficulty be accepted. Now, I wish to deal with the really essential factor—the engine itself—and I warn you that you will find the subject far from satisfactory or clear.

First, it is almost insuperably difficult to make one’s ideas both simple and comprehensive; and, secondly, and still more important, the whole subject is necessarily obscure. Any attempt to describe mechanical occurrences in terms of vital processes is prone to disaster; invariably one encounters what may be termed the ‘x’ factor, because not only is living material in question, but special qualifications relate to man. In fact, I venture to predict that certain factors never will be understood. It is true that in recent years the researches of physiologists have thrown consider able light on the problem, and in this connection we may remember that our Professor A. V. Hill may be regarded as one of the greatest authorities. Yet I have the feeling that however

Reprint from School Hygiene and Physical Education, England.

Digitized by kjOOQie
263

much we have learned, the most important factor of all is as obscure as ever.

I have already said that the anatomical side of the matter is not conclusive, and I hope I can now provide you with some reasons why this is so. Once again, to revert to the idea of machinery, the essential feature of physical exertion is the provision of oxygen to the contracting muscles concerned. So that one necessity of efficient muscular exertion is that a maximum supply of oxygen shall be delivered to the contracting muscles. This implies, first, efficient breathing to inspire suffic'ent oxygen; secondly, a capable heart to send the blood round the body, because it is in the blood stream that the oxygen is carried.

Efficient breathing is a comparative trifle. Practically everybody with pretensions to athletic ability breathes adequately. Of course a very narrow-chested deformed person with nasal obstructions will not be satisfactory in this respect, but then a young man of that type is hardly likely to try his hand very far. It is a commonplace that very indifferently developed chests seem to be effective, and this serves to support my point that the actual respiratory side is not of great importance. That is why I deprecate special breathing exercises, which are not merely useless but may be harmful. Nor, need you be led away by the ridiculous statements of So-and-s’s huge chest expansion. San-dow, I remember, was said to have a 14-inch expansion. Well, ribs are not made of elastic and probably the maximum expansion possible is under 5 inches. These grotesque statements simply imply external muscular movements only, and have nothing to do with the lungs. So much for the lungs: now for the heart.

It is obvious that a pump which can deliver 8 gallons per minute, whilst having a maximum capacity of only seven ounces, must be of first-class material. If we come to examine the heart by every means in our power, we find no differences which distinguish the heart of the great rthlete from th t of the comp ra-tive duffer, either in size or frequency of beat, or indeed any feature which is open to investigation. We are compelled to assume—this is a hypothetical assumption—that the stuff of which the heart of the athlete is composed is so superior that it beats more vigorously and effectively. Certainly, we do know that the maximum provision of circulating blood containing oxygen is a prime necess’ty. But when we speak of a great “heart” in the complimentary sense, this is really a figure of speech, and the character, the courage, and so on, bear no relation to the heart, the organ.

The second factor, which complicates the issue, is the contracting muscle itself. Now here we embark upon a chemical question. The effect of a muscle contracting is the production of lactic acid, and it is the accumulation of lactic acid which causes fatigue and exhaustion. The adequate provision of oxygen removes the lactic acid, and it is clear therefore, that given a full circulation and the moderate production of lactic acid not beyond
264

the power of continuous removal, fatigue would never occur. In really violent exercise the production, and therefore the accumulation, of lactic acid is enormous. I need quote only one example. In running a hundred yards in ten seconds, a man generates enough lactic acid to correspond to that quantity of oxygen which would last him 26 minutes during rest, or, nearly seven times the quantity of oxygen which with the greatest respiratory effort and the finest circulation he could get to his tissues in 10 seconds.

At once we see an important feature of the contracting muscles: they must be muscles which can not only utilise oxygen properly but can either neutralise the lactic acid efficiently or what from a practical standpoint is the same thing, tolerate its presence. I feel sure that naturally athletic muscles have the special capacity to deal with lactic acid to the best advantage, and I believe there can be little doubt that one feature of training is the development of capacity to produce these neutralising substances in their maximum quantity and at a maximum speed. (Physiologists talk also of the viscosity or internal friction of muscles as influencing speed, a natural factor of muscle substance, on which I need not dwell.) Further, you will appreciate why training of the body, educating the muscles chemically, takes time, and necessitates use of the muscles and really involves no mysterious dietetic or other restrictions. You will understand, too, why running in good style means not only maximum progression, but delayed fatigue. Wasteful movements burn up oxygen and accumulate lactic acid unduly.

I have yet to introduce another chemical problem, but this I shall refer to only superficially. I mentioned briefly the question of the oxygen being carried by the blood to the contracting muscles and yet this capacity betokens some special feature of the blood as regards its chemical composition, again a very elusive substance. A little more or less of this substance in the blood means corresponding stimulation of vital centres and it may well be that herein is the ‘x’ factor to which I have referred previously —the factor which is responsible for the existence of athleticism, the factor which would be outside control and alteration.

The third element which enters into the consideration of the vital machine is the nervous side. Now this it is necessary to consider from two angles. First, there is the nervous coutrol of all the factors involved in working a machine. Just as a motor car requires a timing mechanism to ensure the production of a spark at the exact moment when its maximum effect in causing an explosion in the cylinder can be ensured and the proper discharge of the waste gases, so a perfect tuning or what we call co-ordination of the factors in locomotion, means that the heart, lungs, movements of the muscles and all the multitudinous biochemical processes involved, all work harmoniously and in proper sequence. To a considerable extent this is a natural heritage beyond alteration; to a certain extent it is also a question of training, and once more explains why time in training is a factor.
265

It enables us, too, to understand the nature of experience in athletics, about which I shall have something to say later on.

The other angle from which the nervous system is to be considered is the emotional one. It is a commonplace that determination and pluck can sometimes achieve victory over a superior opponent and that some athletes are notorious for the way they "fight,” "crack,” or "pack up.” What all this means it is difficult to say, but it would seem that we can never really measure the reserve power in any man, we can never measure the degree of self-inflicted suffering that his will-power will enable him to tolerate. That is my objection to the purely physiological attitude towards violent exercise. Our scientific friends may measure the amount of oxygen which as a maximum it is possible to supply to muscles and they may calculate the amount of lactic acid which it is possible to tolerate; but I submit that what can never be estimated is the latent factor, because such a factor is called out only in moments of great stress which would never appear in cold-blooded experiments in a physiological laboratory.

It is this factor which has all the charm of uncertainty. Were it not a factor, competition would be a feeble affair: we might in fact, reduce all contests to previous estimations and appropriate calculations. But just because man is a living organism, and above all a human living thing with a nervous system and not a mere machine, we understand the variations he exhibits, why sometimes he can fill "the unforgiving minute with sixty seconds worth of distance run,” and why, at another time, he has only a 90 per cent value.

Perhaps something of what I have said will make it clear why it is that merely big muscles may not be efficient muscles. In general, it is true that we associate power for rapid violent exertion with prominent muscular development. But do not make the mistake of supposing that it is necessary or desirable to build up big muscles and expect them to fulfill the purpose you intend. The efficient big muscle is the muscle which has built itself up in the process of an exertion which is a part of the particular exercise in question. You will find that the ideal sprinter has excellent development of the shoulders and upper limbs and the abdominal muscles: if he runs correctly he develops the muscles in correct manner.

Suppose that a would-be sprinter, who lacks some such development, attempts to supply the deficiency by a series of special exercises, as are often recommended. He may develop the big muscles all right, but for practical purposes they are no more good than if he had plastered them on in position, and they are less than useful because they are parasitic upon him. That is why I deprecate the whole business of "physical jerks,” I mean so far as the athlete is concerned. These ponderous rhythmic movements make a man self-conscious and break up his fine co-ordination. To obtain the proper muscles used in running, you must run properly: to obtain the proper muscles for field events the correct sequence of complicated movements involved

Digitized by v^ooQle
266

can only be carried out by a performance of the movements themselves.

I always make an exception in favour of abdominal exercises because I think they have a special benefit for their own sake, a development which should be encouraged; for the importance of a fine form, abdominal musculature is evident in almost every variety of athletic exercise.

It is all very well, all very charming and interesting to cinematograph a crack performer and then reproduce in slow motion exactly what he does and then pick out an isolated feature for a novice to follow. I cannot agree that his nervous system can be bothered to try to work out consciously and voluntarily, in a tiny fraction of a second, what should be and must become automatic. True, the practice will serve to supply him with a general impression of what he should do, but most of the modem attempts of intimate analysis really do not appeal to me.

Another of my prejudices—if you condemn it as a prejudice —is against early morning exercise. There is no objection to comparatively early rising and a stroll out-of-doors before breakfast, but anything really violent at this time of the day should be strictly tabooed. The body is in a condition of relaxation from the hours of sleep and recumbency, and the additional relaxation afforded by constant warmth. This relaxation cannot be violently disturbed. I doubt if the body recovers its maximum working efficiency under less than three or four hours. Would any sensible man attempt to put up a record at such a time? Would any athlete of experience choose any time earlier than 3 p. m. if he were given the choice?

Now as to the age of athletics. You know very well that it is generally recommended to abandon athletics at 30, save in exceptional circumstances. It is axiomatic that the tissues of the older man may give way under strain and that the practice of youthful activities in middle age is distinctly dangerous for the heart and big blood vessels. Now this question cannot be dismissed quite as drastically as is generally supposed.

My friend, J. Binks, recently collected the ages of our athlet-etic giants at their prime. They were very variable, though perhaps on the whole they showed that an age in the region of 25 was the optimum. Binks’ figures and other similar figures, convincing as they are, do not really dispose of the matter. You must remember that it is very rare indeed that any athlete continues in the game long enough to show the limits of improvement. When he does, he demonstrates that the duration of improvement is far longer than is popularly granted. A. G. Hill was surely better at 32 than he ever was: some of our Marathon men are still improving as they appraoch 40.

This is what I should expect. It is easy enough to understand why the exacting requirements for more serious things in life prevent a man from carrying on; and, furthermore, it is not given to many men to be given the leisure and opportunity, even if they possess the desire to live the austere life demanded by

Digitized by Google
267

serious athletics. So athletics becomes regarded as the young man’s game. Yet, I am convinced that improvement is not only possible, but certain, for a much longer period than is generally conceded. The athlete must, however, stick to it. If he relaxes for a year and then desires to come back, he veiy rarely faces the irksomeness of the very long training which is then essential. If he never went out of condition he would improve, not, of course, indefinitely, but certainly for many years into the veteran stage.

Improvement would occur because education of the tissues demands time and the lessons learned impart an experience which is not only judgment and the knowledge of tactics, but is something deep-seated which may be partly that ‘x’ factor previously referred to. Strength and endurance come with age; speed, of course, slowly and inevitably diminishes and there must for every athlete be a golden period, when his speed is still sufficient and when he has the added strength of maturity. After that critical stage, his strength may still increase, but reduction of speed is beyond this compensation. As one would expect, the men who carry on longest are the distance runners rather than the sprinters.

I had hardly intended saying anything about the diet of athletes, mainly because I did not think it strictly germane to my contribution; but it does seem only appropriate that if you talk of an engine, you must say something of the fuel used by it. I know that what I feel compelled to say will disappoint you. The more mystery one can inject into the subject of diet, the more eagerly some will welcome it. I fear I can only say this. The fuel of the contracting muscle is oxygen and that it works on material which has been built up into the tissues of the body. The ultimate food of the muscle is sugar, but the working of the body as a whole demands the provision of different kinds of foodstuffs which include the sugar group, i. e., sugar, bread, potatoes, fruit and vegetables; the protein group, typified by white of egg, meat, fish and certain vegetables; and the fat group, butter, for example.

Now some people work better on one kind of foodstuff than do others. There are some engines which work best on a lot of vegetables; fatal fuel for the majority. Some want large quantities of flesh food, and some, like myself, demand sugar. But this general law obtains. The energy with which you are going to perform athletic feats one afternoon will not be derived from the food you have had for lunch that day, but the food you took days ago, which has been built up into your system. It may make a big difference to your comfort whether you lunch on a large steak and potatoes, or on a couple of eggs, or an apple, or a dozen lumps of sugar, but that is your affair; it is based on your experience.

Much is claimed for this, that, and the other food. Admittedly there have been great vegetarian athletes, great Christian

Digitized by CjOOQle
268

Scientist athletes, just as there are great big meat-eating athletes and great orthodox-religious athletes, but no general laws can be deduced from their isolated peculiarities. You will find that the majority of the great are very ordinary men in their habits and tastes.

Their greatness resides, as I hope I have made clear, in their natural gifts and determination to train themselves to the utmost of their ability.

Well, the rest of us are very mediocre people and we can only make the best of what we have. Certainly we shall get nothing by seeking for a Royal road. We are doomed to the limitations imposed cm us by Nature, and we must learn to be satisfied with a slice of bread let alone half a loaf.—School Hygiene and Physical Education, England.

A PEEP INTO WEST INDIAN MEDICAL HISTORY*

J. A. Ogilvie, Porus, Jamaica, B. W. I.

Now that American citizens are taking a keener interest than ever before in the West Indies, both from the standpoints of health and commerce, a peep into the sad records and deplorable conditions of past and bygone days will, I am sure, convince readers how completely modem sanitary science has changed the medical history of these charming and picturesque islands.

Up to quite recent times, the white Northerner upon visiting the West Indies was in danger of being attacked by remittent or intermittent fever, dysentery, or yellow fever, and frequently did not survive his arrival by more than a few weeks, while the mortality among the white troops was simply staggering.

Formerly five years were sufficient for the disappearance of a white regiment of 1,000 men, and sometimes in a single year a regiment would lose 300 men.

The sanitary conditions were awful; pools of stagnant water were everywhere; and refuse matter, exposed to heat and air, accumulated and decayed in the yards, streets and barracks; in short, sanitary arrangements of any kind were nonexistent, public health duties being entirely relegated to the John Crows (vultures), and these repulsive birds, harbingers of death, could daily be seen by the scores, actively and energetically engaged in dismembering the putrefying bodies of dead animals, unmolested and undisturbed by passers-by.

Is it any wonder that less than a hundred years ago service in the West Indies was looked upon as almost certain death? Yellow fever was the chief destroying angel with intemperance the principal contributory cause, for many of the European soldiers took to drink at the wretched life and hopeless outlook, and deaths from delirium tremens were frequent. The salt meat

♦Reprint from American Journal of Public Health.

Digitized by t^ooQle
269

they were obliged to eat caused a raging thirst which the rum bottle only aggravated. The sad story is summed up by one medical writer in the following words: “Our troops in the West Indies are killed by drinking new raw rum; and so are the lower order of mechanics and white people on the plantations.

In Jamaica in the years 1817 to 1836, the mean mortality was 121.3; the mean of the 4 healthiest years gave 67, and of the 4 unhealthiest years, 259 per 1,000 of strength. Between 1837 and 1855, the mortality had declined one-half. In 1864, the mortality was much below the home standard. In 1867, it ran up nearly to the old number from the prevalence of yellow fever, which appeared again at Newcastle and caused a greater loss than it had done in 1860. (No epidemic of yellow fever has occurred in Jamaica since 1897.)

In Trinidad and Barbados, the mortality was somewhat lower than in Jamaica, but the graves of whole battalions are still to be seen in their cemeteries, and bear silent testimony to the horrors of the past.

Toussaint L’Ouverture was doubtless an exceptional man, and rightly made use of circumstances to achieve his ends, but if history is true, Hayti owes her independence more to the malignant form of yellow fever which decimated the French and English armies than to any military genius which he exhibited. The white troops sent to Hayti from Jamaica between 1795 and 1798 were troops condemned to death, it being related that one whole regiment from colonel to drummer bqy was exterminated by yellow fever, not a single man surviving. An entire French army under General Le Clerc was in its turn almost annihilated by this dread malady in 1802 and 1803.

Today the mortality of the West Indies compares favorably with that of most American cities, and the white man from northern latitudes, be he American, Canadian, or European, enjoys as good health in the perpetual summer of these sunny islands as he does under his own temperate skies, provided he cultivates regular habits and avoids intemperance.

This transformation has been brought about by a more accurate knowledge of the causes of disease, and still more gratifying results will follow when the technical means of prevention are more efficiently applied.

The change which has taken place during the 20th century in the health conditions of these sun-kissed isles of the West vividly emphasizes the truth of the Latin maxim Homini nihil utilius homine, for this remarkable achievement has only been rendered possible by the selfsacrifice, devotion and martyrdom of members of the medical profession who concentrated their efforts on research and experimental work to the end that the human family might enjoy freedom from pestilence and disease.

Digitized by CjOOQle
270

News, notes and comments

Whooping Cough—The positive organism in whooping cough was isolated by Bordet and Gengou 24 years ago and it has been 14 years since Chievitz and Meyer developed their simple method for early diagnosis. Whooping cough can now be diagnosed before the lymphocytosis and whoop. Two hundred cases which have been seen in private practice have been analyzed with respect to bacteriological findings. The diagnostic plate was positive in all but 1 of 53 patients in the catarrhal stage. Of 107 cases in the paroxysmal, 70 had positive plates representing 65 per cent of the total in this group. Of 40 cases studied bacteriologically in the period of decline, none showed positive plates.

New School of Nursing at Vanderbilt University—The School of Nursing at Vanderbilt University at Nashville, Tenn., has been organized as an independent school of university rank through the financial support of the Rockefeller Foundation. The school will offer not only programs of study to undergraduate students, but to graduate nurses as well.

Then and Now—"Some of the hale and hearty oldtimers want to know why it takes such an endless amount of hygiene, prophylaxis, sanitation, dietary regulation, medical examination and what not to raise healthy children now-a-days when they used to grow up that way. The health officer answers that it may be a consummate mystery but people used to raise apples without spraying, pigs without inoculation against cholera, cotton without fighting the boll weevil, cattle without precaution against tuberculosis.—So recently as the World War, Uncle Sam had a hard time finding 6,000,000 able-bodied men.”—Illinois Health Messenger.

The New Physical Education Building of the University of Southern California.—In general shape the new hall will constitute a large U in the center of which will be a garden patio and a large central recreational swimming pool. Of true Romanesque style of architecture, and of reinforced concrete throughout, it is planned to be one of the most artistic and utilitarian buildings of its kind in America. It will provide classroom and office space for the combined men’s and women’s department of physical education, quarters for the student health service, two swimming pools—one instructional and one recreational, and locker and shower rooms for varsity teams.

"Essentially the new physical education building at Southern California will be an educational unit of the campus group, with ample quarters and equipment for recreation, available

Digitized by

Google
271

alike to students, faculty, and alumni. The hall has been so planned that every foot shall be available for these purposes, and that there will be no great waste space such as exists in the field type of gymnasium.

FOREIGN ITEMS OF INTEREST

Recently Johannes Heitmann of the Tumverein Rienburg, Germany won the golden Sportbadge. Heitmann is over 62 years of age whcih fact shows that he has known how to keep himself physically fit in order to win this badge for all around physical efficiency. The 100 meter dash he made in 13 4-10 seconds, the 10000 meter run in 49 1-2 minutes. In apparatus work he made 16 out of 20 possible points, and in swimming he easily mastered the minimum of 20 minutes.

“Leibesuebungen” has an article by Dr. Karl Muley of Stambul on Physical Education in Turkey. He says that, like all other things, physical education has changed and advanced rapidly in the republic. Patterned formerly after the most orthodox formal type of physical training (pictures show girls in a gymnasium costume reaching within a few inches of the ground) the present director of physical education Selim Sirri Bei (whose two daughters received their training as teachers of physical education in Germany) has brought about a complete change. In a few years the results of this modem method of physical training, including sport, will be certain to show themselves in higher physical efficiency in all parts of the population.

“To crawl or not to crawl” has been a much debated question in the German Swimmers Federation. Crawl enthusiasts had discontinued the teaching of the breast stroke because it was not so good as a racing stroke as the former. Even the back stroke, where both arms are used simultaneously, had been discontinued by the racing-masters. The arguments finally led to the appointment of a commission composed of sport physicians who were asked to report upon the advantages or harmfulness of the crawl stroke so far as its hygienic effects are concerned. After the study over a period of 18 months the commission recently submitted a partial report. This says that the teaching of the breast stroke and the backstroke (both arms) should be continued; that their hygienic values are so great and that their postural effect is of such value that they can not be replaced by the crawl. The crawl stroke also should be taught.

Former Minister of War, of Germany, Dr. Gessler, has recently accepted an appointment as president of the Bavarian Gymnastic Union. With Dr. Dominicus as president of the

Digitized by UjOOQle
272

German Turners, this appointment places two of the most eminent men of Germany in the ranks of active executives furthering physical education.

The following changes have taken place in the management of the Gymnastic Central Institute in Stockholm, Sweden; Major Winroth has taken the place of Colonel Rignell, resigned. In place of the 5 directors who also resigned Elmquist, Major Lilliehook, Prof. Soderlung, Rector Hedstrom, and Miss Elin Falk were appointed.

In Altona, near Hamburg, a new Peoples College for Physical Education has been organized. Its aims are: 1. To acquaint the mass with the aims of physical education and to help broadcast a knowledge of this science.

2. To offer practical courses in physical education for the mass and also for teachers and commercial groups. 3. To further the work of societies and of schools by training leaders for youths and by offering extension courses for teachers.

Director Lorenzen will have charge of the new college.

A new form of sport-madness is reported from France. Miss Violetta Moris is a great French athlete. It appears that her breasts interfered with putting the shot. According to Dr. Meisl she had them amputated. Because of this, and also because Miss Moris always appeared in men’s clothes the French Women’s Sport Federation excluded her from membership. Thereupon Miss Moris sued the Federation for 100,000 francs. Recently the third civil court in Paris decided as follows: Miss Moris lacks a sense of propriety; her actions are not in harmony with the ideals of a federation that is endeavoring to give young girls an education in fair sport; her language was not such as fitted in these surroundings, the federation therefore was justified in its action.

The German Rugby Football Association has four regional groups; the North German Association with 17 societies, the South German with 24 societies, Middle German with 11 and West German with 3, giving a total of 55 societies.

Good teachers and good facilities are held responsible for the differences in achievement between pupils in cities of increasing sizes. It was found in Germany that the results in broad jumping decreased with the decrease of inhabitants in cities of 100,000 to less than 2000, and that apparently this decrease in achievement was based on less-trained teachers and inferior equipment usually found in smaller cities. The results were as follows:

Digitized by Google
Inhabitants

273

Over 100,000 ......

20.000	to 100,000 .

2.000	to 20,000 ...

under 2,000 .......

Broad jump Boys	Girls.

331 CM.	295	CM.

321 CM.	291	CM.

315 CM.	286	CM.

310 CM.	276	CM.

Based upon the average performance of 89,000 boys in running 100 meters, the following figures have been published by the German National Committee (D. R. A.)

Age	Seconds

11 to 12	years......................................... 13	2-5

13 to 14	years......................................... 12	3-5

15 to 16	years......................................... 12	.-5

17 to 18	years......................................... 12

Physical Exercise and Menstruation. Resume of an article in the Medical Weekly, Munich. The last German Tumfest gave two women physicians Drs. Emilie Duentzer and Martha Hellendahl an apportunity to examine and question 1561 women contestants. Among the published results of these examinations are to be found the following statements.

1.	64 per cent made no change whatever in the types of exercise during their period.

2.	17.4 per cent exercised sporadically.

3.	3.0 per cent did not exercise at all.

4.	The rest of the contestants gave unsatisfactory answers.

5.	60 per cent stated that during their period their physical efficiency was the same or slightly better.

6.	40 per cent stated that their efficiency was less.

7.	Only 17 contestants had borne children. All 17 reported exceptionally easy child births.

The conclusions of these women physicians are that women who are accustomed to physical training and sport, may, if they can to do so, continue these during their menstrual period. The physical demands should however not exceed the customary amount. Care should be exercised on the day preceding the period. On cold days care should be exercised when participating in sports in the open air. During the period there should be no compulsion to take part in sports.

Water Supply and Sewerage of Large Japanese	The

author gives an account of the water supplies, sewerage systems and sewage treatment works of the large cities of Japan. Water works methods are up to date and a high standard of water is generally supplied. Surface water treated by slow sand filtration is most usual, but rapid sand filtration is being introduced.

Sewerage systems have reached a high degree of development though the sewage in most cases is discharged without treatment.

Digitized by CaOOQle
274

One full-size activated sludge plant is almost completed at Nagoya and the process is being tried on an experimental scale at other places.—H. E. Babbitt,	104,	1920.

From papers of Water Pollution Research Board, England.

The Fatality of Scarlet Fever.—A study of scarlet fever in England confirms the general impression that for some 50 years

gist the fatality of the disease has been declining steadily.

ere and there a higher mortality than expected is observed, but these few cases do not have a marked influence on the general trend.

Some of the reports are very striking—in one town, 210 cases with 1 death, in another an epidemic (number of cases not stated) with no deaths. In Liverpool, there has been a decline from 9.3 mortality per 100,000, in 1919, to 1.7 in 1929, though there were two years intervening in which the death rate had no decline. From a number of other towns there are reported epidemics with a general mortality of slightly over 1 per cent.

The reports do not seem to give any safe ground for forecasting but they demonstrate certainly that scarlet fever is now a much milder disease than it has been in the past.—Am. JT. Public Health.

Reorganization of the Royal Gymnastic Central Institute, Stockholm.—The recent committee of investigation on the conduct of the Gymnastic Central Institute’s activities and allied questions—the “Gymnastic Experts of the Year 1927,” comprising Col. K. A. Rignell, president; Gym.-Dir. Louise von Bahr; Capts. E. Killander and G. Liljegren; and Prof. G. Liljestrand— has presented a report and scheme of reorganization. Previous committees carried out enquiries in 1910, 1915, and 1924, but their recommendations did not lead to representation being made by Royal Authority to the Riksdag. Like that of the Committee of 1924, the present report contemplates building up on the basis of the existing state of affairs an organization which will remedy existing defects.

Inflamation of the nipples. In the “Sportarzt” Miss Schoeppe,

M.	D. published the results of her investigation on inflamed nipples of girls participating in physical training and sports. She found inflamation coupled with extreme sensitivity, redness and swelling in a considerable number of cases. She also found such conditions in girls not taking part in bodily exercises but being produced by a seam in the clothing worn, or by an ill fitting “brassier”. Another reason was the effect of cold especially during swimming. Preventive measures, she found, were soft wearing material, a well fitting brassier, and when taking part in athletics during bad weather, some girls found it advisable to moisten the nipples with vaseline. Dr. Schoeppe believes that where there is an early tendency to develop hanging breasts, this can be avoided partly by an early wearing of a good brassier.

Digitized by CaOOQle
276

Highschool Rowing. In June, the fiftieth anniversary of high school rowing in Germany will be celebrated in Potsdam, near Berlin. The committee of schoolmen in charge of the celebration have organized this as following. Thursday June 12, reception of visiting participants. Friday morning boat trips in the neighborhood (in the shells of the visiting crews, or in loaned shells). The afternoon will be taken up with trips in steamers to view the boat houses for boys and for girls on the Wannensee (a lake in the neighborhood of Berlin). Saturday morning will be devoted to additional excursions on the river Spree. Saturday afternoon the hundreds of participating crews of boys and girls will form in one long parade over the regatta stretch at Potsdam and pass in review before the multitude gathered at the stadium.

Sun Treatment. Is open air treatment good for tuberculosis of the lungs? Recently Dr. Bernard L Wyatt of Tuscon, Arizona reported upon his results in Heliotherapy (direct rays of the sun) in cases of tuberculosis of the lungs. He says that “it is clear that the series (200 cases) is too small for definite conclusions, but it is a matter of considerable interest that the number of patients showing appreciable improvement that might be attributed solely to direct heliotherapy was negligible.”

Dr. Wyatt also quotes from a letter he had received from Dr. Edgar Mayer, of Saranac Lake, N. Y. who says “as to the use ef direct sunlight in pulmonary tuberculosis, I think that most of the reports have not been on controlled cases and therefore biased in its favor. We have given it a fair trial here in the summer time and only in the rarest instances was I convinced that it helped.”

► A further statement by Dr Wyatt is that sunlight, which was formerly used extensively in Switzerland for the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis, has been given up almost completely.”

Dr. Wyatt’s experience with direct rays of the sun in treating other forms of tuberculosis was more gratifying.

THE CHILD’S BILL OF RIGHTS

The ideal to which we should strive is that there shall be no child in America:

That has not been born under proper conditions.

That does not live in hygienic surroundings.

That ever suffers from undernourishment.

That does not have prompt and efficient medical attention and inspection.

That does not receive primary instruction in the elements of hygiene and good health.

That has not the complete birthright of a sound mind in a sound body.

That has not the encouragement to express in fullest measure the spirit within which is the final endowment of every human being.

Digitized by kjOOQle
276

Height Weight Chart*. In the School Extension Magazine we find an article by C. E. Turner, that should be heeded by all teachers who use height-weight charts as the basis of their nutrition work. He says, in part, the schools should realize more dearly that standard weight tables give average weight, not normal weight, that there is a normal variation, and that some children must be below the average.

It is unscientific and unfair to set average weight as a goal for all children.

The 10 per cent underweight standard does not apply with the same significance to all age levels. The school should expect a greater number of 10 per cent underweight children in the later age groups due to the increased natural variability.

Since the natural variability of girls is greater than that of boys one must expect more underweight individuals among the former.

The failure to gain in weight over a period of several months is abnormal. Further studies should be made upon the consistency of gain in order to determine more accurately its value as an index of health. The practice in school administration which brings to the attention of teacher, nurse, or doctor the child who fails to gain in weight over a period of three months would seem to be commendatory.

In the hands of the physician, underweight is one of the valuable diagnostic factors. The separation of underweights in a school population for further medical attention may be a valuable screening process. That underweight in itself does not constitute a complete diagnosis is now becoming more widely recognized by the lay public. It would be extremely unfortunate if the data presented were used to discredit either the scientific medical use of underweight or the practice of weighing children regularly in school as an educational procedure.

-------1------ —

First Aid Kit for Snake Bites.—The curator of mammals and reptiles at the New York Zoological Gardens, Raymond L. Ditmars, says in the Bulletin of the New York Zoological Society that a first aid kit for the treatment of snake bites should contain (1) several one-sided safety razor blades; (2) a small bulb and cupping glass for flat surfaces with additional attachment for round surfaces; (3) roll of rubber ligature; (4) a small roll of bandage; (5) two tubes of anti-venomous serum; (6) a few crystals of potassium permanganate. Mr. Ditmars continues to say that the bite of a poisonous serpent is unmistakable. The symptoms develop rapidly and if nothing happens within ten minutes following a bite the snake was harmless. Bites from poisonous serpents within three to five minutes cause a burning pain and within ten minutes a distinct swelling which rapidly increases followed within a half hour or less with profuse perspiration and may be reflex vomiting.

Digitized by Google
277

Municipal Indoor Tennis Courts In Houston. Eight regulation tennis courts have been laid out in the smooth, flat central part of the Democratic Convention Hall of 1928 in Houston, Texas. These courts are available for use by the public during both day and evening hours. There are many halls owned by the public throughout the United States which should be used for this and similar purposes instead of standing idle.

Recreation Camp In Detr.dit.The Recreation Department in the City of Detroit conducts a 300 acre camp about forty-five miles from the city. Permanent cabins are equipped with electric light and individual cots. An assembly hall with library, piano, and radio provides entertainment for evenings and rainy days. The rate is $7.00 for the first week and $6.00 for each succeeding week. This sum includes transportation both ways.

A Liability Insurance in New Rochelle. The Park Board of New Rochelle, New York, carries public liability insurance covering any accidents occurring within the parks either to employees or visitors. This assures recovery of $100,000 for a $1,500 annual premium.' The Board is enthusiastic over the plan and feels the money is well spent. '

Viewed as an isolated fact the cost of a constructive program in medical service, education or recreation seems staggering when we add up the bill, state by state, and organization by organization, but in comparison with a national bill for sickness, or delinquency, or crime,—it dwindles. If the White House Conference on Child Health and Proection does no more than teach us to compare these values it will have made a great contribution to our national welfare.	Ray	Syman	Wilbur.

Delaware, first state in the Union to have its illiteracy figures announced by the Federal Census Bureau, shows a decrease of almost 33-1-3 per cent in illiteracy over the figures for 1920. The census for this year, announces the bureau, indicates that there are 7,805 illiterates, the majority of those being in Wilmington. There are 1,896 native white illiterates, 3,292 foreign born, and 3,496 negroes.

Convention of Sport Physicians. The fifth annual convention of Sport Doctors, a definite group of specialists in the medical profession, was held in Cologne in 1928. The report, containing 200 pages, recently published, states that 2334 such specialists were in attendance. As a result of that organized body there have been set up consulting stations in most of the cities and towns in Germany and Austria, where people may go for physical examinations and advice as to which sport they might participate in with the greatest safety and satisfaction.

Digitized by UjOOQle
278

The Public Health Service in a study of the relationship between muscular tone and good posture, carried out with a group of high school boys, found no appreciable effect of exercise as compared with the comparative lack of exercise in a control group. There was, however, more rapid development of muscular power in the experimental group and there was also more rapid increase in height and weight. There was no effect from exercise on the condition of the feet.

This "new departure”—that of returning the game to the boy—was put into effect in the fall of 1927, in Albany and many other of the larger cities in the State of New York. It has spread to other states, notably Michigan and California. The principle of “captain-control” or pupil freedom with responsibility, has been formulated as "General Regulation Number One” by the New York State Public High School Athletic Association. John Dewey describes the new departure as "the greatest advance step yet taken in school athletics,” for as Doctor Dewey says:

"Many of the claims that have been made for mental or moral training by means of sports have been nullified by the fact that judgment and decisions were not left with the players. Moreover, control of the game by those who are not playing inevitably makes winning the main object.”

«»	■	—	'	■	-	■	i»

Health education notes

'> ■.

SUN TAN

Sun tan says LeRoy Wilkes, M. D., Director Division of Medical Service, American Child Health Association, is produced by the development of skin pigmentation by the body’s defense-mechanism as a protection against an excessive amount of sun rays. Sun tan in itself has no health value except as it gives this protection, and indicates, further, that one has been exposed to the beneficial rays of the sun.

Sun tan varies in amount in different individuals and bears a close relationship to the complexion of the individual. The blonde with fair skin burns easily and tans with more difficulty than the brunette whose skin has inherently a greater amount of skin pigment.

The "Red-head” not only does not tan easily but bums and peels most readily and commonly freckles excessively.

Sun rays when reflected from such surfaces as water, white sand, and glass (windshields of autos) intensify the burning and tannine process.

Wind also appears to play a part in accentuating the effects of sunlight.

Digitized by CaOOQle
279

Research is still required to help in solving the question of how much of the body must be exposed to sunlight in order to get the maximum health benefits.

Some clothes are said to transmit the beneficial rays of sunlight better than others and a variety of "sunsuits” are now on the market, but children with less expensively girded loins can probably benefit equally well from the exposure to the sun.

A combination of sun bath and sea bath provides an attractive and beneficial “treatment” for children. Under the effect of these agents children store up vitality for the long winter months when, though equally important, sun baths are less easily taken and in some cases must be supplemented by “artificial sunlight” such as carbon-arc and other forms of electric light.

Do Adults Need Vitamin D7—The answer to the question as to the adult’s need for vitamin D clearly is: “Yes, but not so much as the growing organism.” Short laboratory experiments on normal men and women have not as yet shown any effect from adding or withdrawing vitamin D, but in certain abnormal conditions its influence has been demonstrated, especially in a serious disease of the bones, osteomalacia. The latter disturbance in one of its manifestations at least, appears to be a deficiency disease traceable to lack of vitamin D or light.

Light in Relation to School Hygiene.—In the Oeuvre nationale de l’enfance, Dr. R. Ledent, Belgium, published an article emphasizing the unquestionable influence of sunlight in various domains: growth of children, development of the adolescent, aptitudes of the adult, prevention of diseases, and treatment of certain diseases such as tuberculosis. From the standpoint of school hygiene, it may be said that rickets presents, according to Woringer of Strasbourg, who collected statistics from many different parts of Europe, a minimum of frequency in June, July, August and September, whereas it increases from October to January and attains its maximum in February, March and April. In older children, general disorders of nutrition appear toward the end of winter and disappear in the spring: loss of appetite, flabby musculature, fatigability, anemia, lack of initiative, depression, nervousness and insomnia. It has been shown also that certain infections fear the sun, as angina, erysipelas, bronchopneumonia and meningitis.

From experiments that have been carried out (particularly by Schuyten), it is evident that the muscular strength of children, measured by the dynamometer, decreases from January to March; presents an ascending period from April to June; diminishes during the long vacation, and rises during the fourth quarter. The psychic activity of children is almost parallel to their physical activity. There is, then, a seasonal rhythm in the physical and psychic aptitudes of children, of which account must be taken

Digitized by t^ooQle
280

—a rhythm that presents a certain parallelism with the luminosity of the atmosphere. Solar treatment, combined with exercise and respiratory gymnastics, should therefore be made the basis of all school hygiene.

Salt Depletion by Sweating .—At a meeting of the Institution of Mining Engineers, a series of reports was received on atmospheric conditions in hot and deep mines. Dr. J. S. Haldane and Mr. W. Hancock, the latter having experimented on himself in the large experimental chamber of the mining research laboratory at the University of Birmingham, presented an important paper on the acute attacks of cramp which occur among miners and others engaged in hard work in hot places when they drink water freely. In a man perspiring freely and replacing the lost fluid by water there is a tendency for the percentage of chloride in the blood plasma , and in the whole body to fall, as much chloride may be lost in the sweat. The sweet glands seem incapable beyond a very limited extent of producing sweat, which, like urine, varies in composition according as water and other constituents are abundant or the reverse in the blood. Their function is to regulate loss of heat from the body or communication of heat to it. Only to a minor degree do they regulate the composition of the blood. Prevention of the symptoms due to excessive removal of chloride by sweating is simple; all that is needed is to provide a sufficient supply. By eating red herrings or highly salted bacon, coal miners usually prevent symptoms. If stokers in hot climates • at sea would add one tenth of sea water to the water they drink during work, as the miner adds about 0.25 per cent to his water or tea, or would eat plenty of salt meat or fish, they would prevent symptoms.

Meat and Anemia.—Meat is the best blood builder. I have repeatedly been impressed by the anemia of patients who practice dietary restriction! Red cell counts of three and a half million and less in my experience are common, and inquiry often reveals the fact that among other faults the patients who exhibit such anemia are accustomed to take dangerously little protein. In view of the revelations of Whipple and his co-workers on the blood-building qualities of meat, we cannot help but suspect that the anemia of these patients is due in large part to their abnormally low protein intake, which suspicion is strengthened when we witness the marked benefits which accompany the addition to the diet of liberal quantities of meat.—McLester, P. S.: The Protein Problem, Ohio State M. J., S.

Poor Posture Is Result Of Erect Position.—Writers on posture agree on certain conclusions, which are quoted by Dr. Armitage Whitman in an article on posture in Hygeia, as follows:

1.	The biped posture of man has been evolved from the quadruped posture.

Digitized by UaOOQle
281

2.	The body has not yet fully adapted itself to the biped posture.

3.	There are many physical disadvantages in the erect posture, but they are outweighed by the physical and mental advantages resulting from it.

4.	Good posture can be attained by having good health, taking enough exercise to keep the muscles strong and the joints supple and continually assuming correct positions in the daily task.

5.	Fatigue is the most constant cause of postural deformities in the industries.

6.	Continuous sitting or standing in any one position is fatiguing.

7.	Change of posture at the will of the worker is the remedy for industrial fatigue.

8.	Industrial furniture should be so constructed as to fit the individual worker and to allow comfortable working conditions in both the sitting and the standing posture.

EXERCISES ON FOUR PARALLEL BARS.

Model Exercises of the Turnverein Vorwaerts-Brooklyn,

N.	Y. at the Buffalo Tumfest.

Arranged by Otto Boehmke.

16 Participants-8 Ladies—8 Men.

Fonrtation: Flank ranks of four (2 ladies and 2 men) at outer end of each parallel bar facing center of cross (see diagram) bars placed in cross form. Ladies execute first and second, men third and fourth exercise.

T

T

T

T

hhhh	H	H	H	H

±

J.

±

JL

Group I.

From a cross stand front ways with a running start:

Exercise 1.

a)	Jump to an upper arm hang in middle of bars, swing forw., backw. forw., with this forw. swing rise to a straddleseat in front of hands.

Digitized by CaOOQle
282

b)	Swing left leg backw. between bars with 1-4 turn 1. to a lying support frontways (on both bars).

c)	Kneel 1. on rear bar and raise r. leg backw.

d)	Lower r. leg and jump to a side stand frontways.

Exercise 2.

a)	Jump to an upperarm hang in middle of bars, swing forw., backw. forw., raise legs to kip position and kip to a straddleseat in front of hands,

b)	Place 1. leg on r. bar and with 1-4 turn 1. circle r. leg between bars to a lying support frontways (on both bars).

c)	Kneel 1. on rear bar, raise r. leg backw. and bend arms,

d)	Lower r. leg, straighten arms and jump to a side stand frontways.

Exercise 3.

a)	Jump to an upper arm hang, swing forw., backw., and kip to an upper arm stand,

b)	Lower body backw., dip swing forw. to a straight arm support and place 1. leg on r. bar, with 1-4 turn 1. swing r. leg between bars to a lying support frontways (on both bars).

c)	Rear vault r. over both bars to a cross stand sideways. Ecerxise 4.

a)	Jump to an upper arm hang in center of bars, swing forw., backw., forw., kip to an upper arm stand,

b)	Dip swing forw. and swing-backw. to a hand stand,

c)	Bend arms to an upper arm stand,

d)	Roll forw. to kip position, kip to a support, dip swing forw. and place 1. leg on r. bar, and with 1-4 turn 1. swing r. leg backw. between bars to a lying support frontways,

e)	Squat vault over both bars to a side stand rearways.

Group II.

From an outer cross stand rearways at end of bars, outer grip: Exercise 1.

a)	Circle body backw. to a straddle seat, grasp in rear of

legs,

b)	Backw. swing to a lying support frontways, feet resting on both bars..

c)	Raise and lower 1. leg

d)	Forw. swing, place 1. leg on r. bar and with 1-4 turn 1. swing r. leg back between bars and forw. over both bars to a side seat on r. thigh with straddled legs.

e)	With 1-4 turn r. swing 1. leg over both bars and dismount forw. to a cross stand sideways

Exercise 2.

a)	Circle body backw. to a straddles seat, grasp in rear of

legs,

b)	With bent hips lower body backw. to kip position and roll backw. to a straddle seat in front of hands,

c)	Swing backw. and forw. to a lying support rearways, feet resting on both bars,

d)	Raise and lower 1. leg

Digitized by CaOOQle
283

e)	Swing backw, and forw. and place 1. leg on r. bar, with

3-4 turn 1. circle r. leg backw. between bars and over both bars to a side seat with straddled legs on 1. thigh

f)	With 1-2 turn 1. swing r. leg over both bars and dismount forw. to a sidestand frontways.

Exercise 3.

a)	Hip swing-up to a support, and lower body backw. to kip position,

b)	Straighten body, swing backw. and swing-rise backw. with scissors backw. to a straddle seat in front of hands,

c)	Swing backw. to an upper arm stand,

d)	Roll forw. to an upper arm hang, Swing forw. and kip to a support, dip swing forw. to a straight arm support and place 1. leg on r. bar, swing r. leg backw. between bars and 1-2 turn I., complete circle of r. leg to an outer cross seat on r. thigh,

e)	rear vault r. over both bars, using r. hand only (Fencers vault)

Exercise 4.

a)	Swing forw. and raise lefs to an inverted balance hang with bent hips, and with the next forw. swing kip backw. rear-ways to support, lower to an upper arm kip position,

b)	Straighten body, swing backw. and swing-rise backw. with

1-2 turn to an upper arm hang, swing forw. and kip to an upper-arm stand,

c)	Dip swing jump forw. to a straight arm support, momentary straddle seat in front of hands, swing backw. and rear vault

1.	over both bars (Double rear vault) to a cross stand sideways.

Group III.

From a cross stand frontways at end of bars:

Exercise 1.

a)	nith outer grip: Fall backw. to an inverted hang and with the swing backw. straddle legs sidew. and swing up to a stra

a)	With outer grip:	Fall	backw.	to	an inverted hang and

with the swing backw. straddle legs sidew. and swing up to a straddle seat in front of hands, (kip to a straddle seat),

b)	Grasp forw. and roll forw. to an outer cross seat in front of r. hand,

c)	With 1-1 turn 1. swing 1. leg back between bars and circle

1.	leg to an outer cross seat in front of r. hand,

d)	Rear vault 1. over both bars to an outer cross stand sideways.

Exercise 2.

a)	With outer grip, fall backw. to an inverted hang and with the swing backw. straddle legs sidew. and swing up to a straddle seat in front of hands (ldp to a straddle seat),

b)	Grasp forw. and raise body to an upper arm stand,

c)	With bent hips roll forw. to a straddle seat in front of hands.

d)	With 1-1 turn 1. circle 1. leg backw. between bars and then over both bars to a straddle seat in front of hands.

Digitized by kjOOQle
284

e)	Drop backw. to an inverted balance hang and continue this circular movement upward to a straddle seat, grasp in rearor of legs,

f)	Swing backw. and forw. to an outer cross seat in front of r. hand,

g)	Rear vault 1. over both bars with 1-4 turn r. to a side stand frontways.

Exercise 3.

a)	With inner grip, kip to a straight arm support, dip swing jump forw., swing backw. to an upper arm stand,

b)	Roll forw. to an upper arm hang, roll backw. to an upper arm hang,

c)	Kip to a support, swing forw. and place 1. leg over r. bar and with 1-4 turn 1. swing r. leg back between bars to a lying support frontways

d)	Squat vault over both bars to a side stand rearways. Exercise 4.

a)	Straddle over both bars, swing to a hand stand,

b)	Lower to an inverted balance hang and kip to a support, dip swing forw. and swing backw, to an upper arm stand,

c)	Roll forw., roll backw. to a bent arm support, dip swing forw., swing backw. to a hand stand,

d)	Lower backw. and hip circle under the bars to an upper arm hang, kip to a support, swing forw., place 1. leg on r. bar and with 1-2 turn 1. circle r. leg between bars to an outer cross seat on r. thigh,

e)	1-4 turn r. to a lying support on rear bar and straddle vault over both bars to a side stand rearways.

Emergency Treatment of Fractures.-—One of the fundamental rules of modem fracture treatment is that the part must be splinted from the moment of injury. The motto should be "Splint them where they lie.” This rule should apply to all types of bony injuries, at least until x-ray evidence of the exact nature of the fracture has been obtained. Early splinting is particularly necessary in the case of fractures of the shafts of long bones. Wilson, P. D., J. Missouri M. A., November, 1929.

BOOK REVIEWS

Handcraft—price $1.50. Playground and Recreation Association of America, 315 Fourth Avenue, New York City. Eighty pages of full-size plans and patterns.

The book contains illustrated patterns and directions for making articles which children of various ages can construct readily. The plans are sinple, the materials easily secured and the tools required are few and inexpensive. A bibliography suggests other lines of activity which the child may take up after he has mastered the less complicated principles of handcraft.

Digitized by CaOOQle