MIND AND BODY

Tol. 17.	FEBRUARY,	1911.	No.	196

Editorial Committee :

WILLIAM E. DAY, Director, Deseret Gymnasium, Salt Lake City, Utah,

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Assn., Boston, Mass.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M.D., Public Schools, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johpson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis

THE ATHLETIC RESEARCH SOCIETY.

The third annual meeting of this society took place in New York on Wednesday, 'December 28th, 1910. The executive committee met on the evening previous to di-scuss several reports. The following circular letters and reports give a fair idea of the magnitude of the problem and what,, so far, has been done to clearify the situation. It will immediately apparent that many more typical cases must be studied in order to arrive at the solution of what amateurism is. The point brought out very forcibly by the discussions was that our present rules defining an amateur were entirely wrong. The result of the meeting was that the study of typical violations of the spirit of amateurism should continue during the coming year so that a great mass of cases could be used to arrive at definite conditions.

On October 18th, 1910, the following letter was sent to all members:

Dear Sir:—The Athletic Research Society is a voluntary organization formed for the purpose of studying athletic conditions and problems. It is composed of representatives from the various classes of institutions which have wide interest in athletics/.* as follows:	Colleges	and Universities,

Normal Schools, Public Schools, Private Secondary Schools, Young Men’s Christian Associations, Sunday Schools, Playgrounds, Social Settlements, Boys* Clubs, Turners, Rural Associations, Military Clubs, etc.

The Society has be^n organizing a committee to make such a thorough study of the amateur problem and amateur laws that its conclusions may be embodied in an authoritative report which will' become the foundation for a sounder development of our national, competitive play life. The committee is composed of sub-committees—with chairman and associates, one for each class of institutional interest represented in the society; thus insuring a presentation of all the various institutional1 problems in amateurism, at various age periods.

In so far as possible the National Associations representing the general interests of the institutions involved im the Athletic Research Society, e. g., I. A. A. U. S. for the colleges, International Sunday School Committee for the Sunday Schools, International Committee for the Y. M. C. A., etc., have been induced to cooperate in the appointment of the

Digitized by i^.ooQle
-362-

committees and make the sub-committees their own. It is hoped in this manner to tie together for a cooperative effort in one powerful committee the interests of all educational and social institutions vexed with the spirit and motives in competitive play.

It is the purpose of the Athletic Research Society to have the problem studied without bias or regard to previous practices. The plan of study is for each institutional committee to work by the case method. This will involve three things. First, a descriptive statement of typical cases that occur or have occurred repeatedly in individual institutions in the committee’s group, and that seem to be or are claimed to 'be violations of the spirit of play or tendencies to evil resulting from bad motives in play. Second: An analysis of these cases as to the real moral or educational' issue involved, and the effects physically and morally on the individual or individuals involved, or am the growth of competitive play among the many, or of the social status or public respect for competitive play, etc. Third:	A	statement of measures that will meet the general

tendencies to evil and the special cases, in the form either of technical rules or of general' principles that all educators and social workers can agree upon, or of administrative policies or organizations for educational propaganda or control.

When these several studies of sub-committees representing institutional interests and problems are brought together in the committee of the whole, all the angles of interest will be clear and the common elements and the mutual problems differentiated from the special institutional problems. This will give the foundation for general constructive work.

The committee of the whole will meet with the Athletic Research Society in New York, Dec. 28th. It is hoped that substantial progress will have been made by each institutional committee by that time.

Yours sincerely,

Clark W. Hetherington, President.

This letter was followed by a second which was sent to the members of a special' committee. It read as follows:

Chicago, 111., December 3, 1910.

To Members of the Committee on the Study of Amateurism:

In a circular letter of October 18, I gave the scheme of organization and a plani for a scientific study of Amateurisip. Below are additional suggestions which it is hoped will' show some relationships and a method treating material.

In a scientific study of Amateurism the subject should be investigated both in its broader meaning and in its technical sense. In its broader meaning Amateurism is identical with the play spirit; in its technical meaning it is contrasted with the professional spirit.

A brief statement will show the character of study needed under both these headings.

Athletic activities as play, and therefore the play spirit, are receiving new recognition among educators and social workers. Modem studies of child nature and the relation of play to the growth and development of the child, have given play an entirely new meaning. It is now known
-363-

that the vegetative powers, the nervous systems, the instincts at the root of character and the emotions that make life joyous, as well as the intellect, depend upon activity for their development, and that play is Nature’s means of securing this necessary activity. Without play there can be no normal' development. Furthermore, each stage of growth and development during childhood and youth has its characteristic plays and games which are related to the needs of the growing organism, mind and spirit at that stage of development. Athletics, properly speaking, i. e., plays and games formalized under strict rules of procedure for the sake of testing physical' prowess and skill in obedience to the competitive impulse, arise with adolescence and the social feelings and rivalry. Athletics are essentially adolescent plays and characteristics of the needs and spirit of that age. They are the most interesting and stimulating of those activities necessary in adolescence for the continuance of organic and nervous development and they are a vital power in moral, social and spiritual development.

In contrast to these values as stated, certain evils appear in athletics. These objectionable features are the product of tendencies seen even in the plays of children that become more prominent in athletics because of their nature, i. e., the vigorous form of the activity, the social characteristics involving competition in rivalry, and the interest of spectators in the contest. The pbjectionabl'e features are as follows:	The tendencies I. to

physical injury through accident, 2. to over indulgence, 3. to specialization,

4.	to bad manners at play and bad spirit in defeat or victory, 5. to evasion of the rules of the game, 6. to violations of the classification necessary for fairness in competition (eligibility) 7. to develop as a spectacle for the amusement of the public. The first three of these tendencies to evil reduce or destroy the physical values of play; the fourth and fifth the moral values; the sixth and seventh the social1 organization and the respect for athletics as an educational influence.

The tendency to become a spectacle is especially important because it tends to reduplicate and exaggerate all the other evil’s in proportion to its development. Human nature loves to see any fighting spectacle. This interest has produced the professional. It has produced, in so-called amateur contests that are spectacles, all the specialized and business-like methods, the “commercialism,” the professionalism; the exaggeration of the managerial function and the coaching function, etc., etc. These tendencies become more prominent as boys approach maturity. It is very doubtful whether athletics can be organized with the spectator the dominating influence in the organization and the spirit of play be retained.

It is these tendencies to evil that make the “control” of athletics ♦necessary. If athletics are to become a phase of our national play life and are to be worked into the character-forming customs of our people, we need an Athletic Platform declaring the principles and methods necessary in the administration of athletics to secure the values and avoid the evil's —a platform on which all educators and social workers cam join in an administrative endeavor and which can be used to educate the public concerning the meaning and needs of athletics as an educational force.

In this platform the principles of administration designed to promote and preserve the play spirit should be perhaps the chief planks.

Digitized by Google
—364—

These statements will show the relationship in the stody of Amateurism as the spirit of play, and. amateurism in the sense of “motive” with reference to material gain as an element in the classification of individuals for fairness in competition. We need as a result of our study of amateurism, first, a declaration of those principles that are necessary in the organization and administration of athletics to preserve the spirit of play. We need, secondly, an unbiased and scientific study of the technical problems of amateurism at different ages and under different institutional' conditions. The general principles above would give a classification of boys according to development and ability and the activities adapted to them. This technical study covers the results of “motive” or attitude toward material gain for participation in athletics, its effect on the development of the; athlete, its effect on a classification: for fairness in competition, its effect of boys and the public toward athletics, etc.

On this latter phase of the subject we need to forget that we have rules and make a scientific study of cases. This analysis of cases will determine the principles involved and the legislation necessary. Below I give two of the cases used in organizing the analytical outlines for the study of amateurism incorporated in the “Report of the Committee on an Amateur Law,” I.C.A.A.U.S., Section Three, pp. 10-13.

SAMPLE CASE I.

A boy goes to a picnic, participates in a foot race and wins a cash prize. What is his status? The principle involved in this case is typical of all cases where a reward is given for participation in a particular contest. The case brings up the usual questions. What was the boy’s motive? What was his age? What institutional connections did he have? Who was responsible for the cash prize being given? What effect does the act have jn a system of control?

It is fair to assume from experience that with a public opinion favorable to athletics and with proper leadership, boys will participate in contests without desire for individual rewards. It is merely a matter of organizing the play incentives. Doubtless with our present unformed public opinion and our inadequate leadership, some boys would not be led to enter the contest indicated but for the prize. The medal is open to the same objection. In some places where athletics are well developed, athletes have refused to compete unless expensive medals were offered. Here the leadership has perverted the taste and motive by securing participation through material inducements rather than by an organization of the play incentives. Should ’not the leaders be condemned rather than the boys? Should not public opinion 'be roused against the giving of individual medals as well as cash prizes, especially in such manner, that the reward becomes the incentive rather than the pleasures in the contest. Except for this tendency it may be granted that the case cited in its simplest form has neither any effect on the boy nor on the development of athletics, or a system of control of motive.

The case however merges over into more difficult cases. The following questions state the problem:

Suppose for example the boy is under fifteen years of age:	suppose he is between fifteen and twenty:	suppose	he is over twenty. Can

a boy justly be held permanently responsible for acts committed previous

Digitized by CjOOQle
-365-

to, say fifteen years of age? Suppose the boy has never heard there was s.uch a thing as an amateur law. At what age and under what social conditions can he be held responsible for this knowledge? Suppose the boy is. a member of a Playground or a Sunday School or a: Y. M. C.

A.	or a High School where athletics are organized but he has never been a member of a team. Suppose he is also a member of an organized team. These questions- of membership, of knowledge, and of age, each complicate the other.

It is recognized that a boy of exceptional skill' at any age, who is a member of a team representing an institution may develop material motives and demand and receive a reward from partisans for participation. It is not so clear however, at what age or period of development a boy is physiologically able to develop skill enough to be of value to a promoter of contests for the amusement of the public. This should be settled and a distinction made between the two cases.

Considering the difference in age and institutional relationship, would not principles of . administration along the following lines meet all the dangers?

First, throw the responsibility for adequate provisions for athletics under wholesome conditions and adequate leadership on educators and social workers, or those institutions dealing with the adolescent.

Second, frame a regulation that assumes information and responsibility after a boy becomes a competitor in open contests or a member of an organized team.

Third, frame a regulation that assumes information and responsibility after a boy becomes a candidate for a team in any organisation at which time he shall be given information and be required to sign an honor pledge to maintain in his athletics pyre play motives.

SAMPLE CASE 2.

Groups of boys in a certain city are in the habit of organizing themselves into base ball teams and playing games for a jackpot. They put down a hat and each player throws a coin of a stated denomination into the pot. The winning team takes the pot.

What is involved in this act, and what attitude must administrators take towards it?

What is the motive? Social workers agree that these boys do not play for the money involved. They play for the game, but they add to .the legitimate emotional pleasures of the contest the powerful gambling impulses and emotions of chance in order to intensify the pleasures of the game. It is not “technical professionalism,” in this case, if we consider the act from the standpoint of the principle of amateurism, the motive in>-volved. Therefore it has nothing to do with laws of classification framed to bar boys with a money making motive from participation with or against boys with pure play motives. Qn» the other hand the act is bad educationally; it adds an illegitimate incentive to the play incentive; it leads to the money motive in play; it developes gambling habits at the habit-fixing age. Obviously the practice must be condemned by educators and social workers and worked into a code of principles that will eliminate it. Furthermore, it must be recognized that, at a later age, gambling
-366-



can be and is used in colleges and dubs as a subterfuge under which money is paid skilled athletes by partisans for participation.

A large number of such cases will give the data for legislation.

Respectfully submitted,

Clark W. Hetherington,

Chairman Ex. Com.

During the meeting on December 28th the following report of the Committee on Administration was presented:

At the annual meeting of the Athletic Research Society on December 29, 1909, a committee was appointed under the following resolution:

RESOLVED:—First—That a committee be appointed by the Executive Committee to consist of pne representative for each institutional interest in athletics, represented in this Society.

Second—That each member of this Committee investigate the desires of his institutional interests as to the problem of administration and organization.

Third—That this Committee confer with the Committee appointed by the Amateur Athletic Union for the investigation of athletic conditions and that they attempt to bring about a satisfactory administrative adjustment.

The Committee was constituted as follows:	George L. Meylan, M.

D., Chairman; Lee F. Hammer, Secretary; Lory Prentiss, (Secondary Schools); A. E. Metzdorf, (Elementary School's) ; George J. Fisher, M.

D., (Y. *M. C. A.'s); C. E. Hauck, (Sunday Schools and Churches); Gaylord S. White, (Social Settlements) ; George W. Ehler, (Playgrounds) ; W. P. Bowen, (Normal School's) ; Capt. Robert E. Heun, (Military Organizations) ; William A. Stecher, (Turners) ; Myron T. 'Scudder, (Rural Organizations) ; Francis Tabor, (Boys' Clubs) ; R. Tait McKenzie, M. D., (Colleges).

After getting the acceptances of the persons nominated, and filling the necessary vacancies, several attempts were made to get a meeting of the Committee. It seemed possible only to get the members together in small groups in different parts of the country. The secretary therefore prepared ah inquiry blank which was approved by the members of the Committee, and which the members sent out with a personal letter to the people in their respective groups. Each member of the Committee tabulated the replies received and sent in a statement concerning the results of the inquiry. Professor Hetherington took the accumulated material to make a summary of the entire canvass.

Several members got together at the time of the meeting of the Department of Superintendence in Indianapolis in the spring of 1910, and discussed the result of the inquiry that the Committee had carried on. A further conference on this matter was had at the time of the N. E. A. meeting in Boston in July 1910.

Following this the secretary prepared a tentative draft of a statement to be presented to the Special Committee of the Amateur Athletic Union and sent it out to members of the A. R. S. Committee for comment and revision. A meeting of the A. R. S. Committee was held in New York City on October 1, 1910, and the prepared communication to

Digitized by

Google
-367-

the A. A. U. Committee was further revised and prepared. The substance of this communication was that it wasv the sense of the Committee that

(1)	The control of amateur athletics should be vested in a body composed of representatives from all the interests concerned and that such representation should be on the basis of the number of competitors registered in each group.

NOTE:—The interests of the different kinds of bodies having to do with athletics vary so greatly that it seems best that they should form separate groups although they cover the same territory. For example, on the Pacific Coast there might be the following groups:	Athletic	Clubs,

Y. M. C. A/s, Boys* Clubs, Universities and Colleges, Secondary School’s, Elementary Schools, Sunday Schools, Playgrounds. Each of these interests would have its representation according to its size in the national controlling body. They might also have a Sub-governing body for that territory.

(2)	These groups should subscribe to a uniform definition of amateurism and maintain an effective system of registration.

(3)	Groups having this relation should be given authority to carry on all kinds of intergroup athletic activities without procuring sanction from, and without individual registration with the governing body—This to apply when entrance for such games are limited to registered members of the groups. In cases where outside entries are allowed, those not registered with the groups should register with the controlling body and a sanction for the games be secured.

This Committee recommends that the Amateur Athletic Union so readjust its regulations as to conform with the above suggestions.

At that meeting a Special Committee consisting of Dr. George L. Meylan, Dr. R. Tait McKenzie, Dr. George J. Fisher, Mr. Lory Prentiss, and Mr. Lee Hanmer, was appointed to confer with the Special Committee of the Amateur Athletic Union if such a conference should be desired.

On October 8, 1310, a conference with the Amateur Athletic Union Committee took place in New York City. There was a very frank discussion of the whole matter of athletic control and a good many of the specific difficulties that present themselves, particularly in connection with athletics i'ni the schools and playgrounds, and also in small communities where there is little opportunity for inter-group competition. Dr. Fisher brought up the concrete case of a small town in which there was only one high school, two churches and one playground, and called attention to the fact that it was necessary for each of these three groups to join the Amateur Athletic Union and then be registered before they could have competitive athletics among themselVes. The individuals in these groups could not understand why they should be obliged to do this and refused to complv with the requirement. Mr. Weeks of the A. A. U. Committee said that the Amateur Athletic Union would permit such groups in a small' city to organize as a local league and compete among themselves without registration and sanction, requiring only that such league become a member of the District Association of the Amateur Athletic Union in whose territory they were located. He further explained that such mem-

Digitized by v^oogle
—368—

bership would give the local' group representation in the District Association to which it belonged and thus a voice in the administration and control of athletics in their section.

Toward the close of the conference Professor Hetherington stated in some detail the problems of athletics in the schools and colleges, and showed that these institutions were aiming at something different than the athletic clubs, in that the athletics were the means to an end and not an end in themselves. He called attention to the necessity of providing such activities as would enlist the active participation of the whole number of students rather than that of a selected few. The members of the A. A. U. Committee gave evidence of a keen kite rest in this situation, and stated that their organization would co-operate in every possible way to aid the schools and colleges, and would be glad to see some organization perfected among these educational institutions that would make possible the necessary encouragement and control of the activities.

Altogether the conference was well worth while, each group getting a better conception of the view-point of the other. It seems as though this conference may have paved the way for more effective co-operation*, as it surely has resulted in a better mutual1 understanding.

Following this conference the A. A. U. Committee submitted a report at the annual meeting of the Amateur Athletic Union on November

21.	In substance the report suggested that the A. A. U. Committee encourage the formation of groups or leagues in the various fields of athletic activities and induce such groups to join the District Associations in their respective territories. The report closed with the following paragraph :

“We hope that all those that are seeking the advancement of amateur athletics will unite with us in a campaign of education that will be constructive, and which will seek to make known the efforts that are being made to make the athletic activities of this country stand for fair play, courtesy, co-operation, wholesome recreation and health.”

Your Committee feels that a decided step in advance has been secured by bringing about this better understanding, through fran^ discussion of the problems that have developed, particularly in athletic activities of school's, playgrounds, clubs, etc.

Your Committee would recommend:

First—That steps should be taken to develop more organized co-operation among the schools, churches, playgrounds, boys* clubs, etc., in this matter of athletic administration.

Second—That each group should emphasize those athletic activities that make possible the active participation of the greatest number, as opposed to intergroup competitions for the selected few.

Third—That there should be formed local groups in the various sections of the country, which groups should join the District Association of the Amateur Athletic Union for that section and thus make possible proper control of their intergroup competitions, as well as to encourage such activities by eliminating the necessity of registration and sanction and also for the purpose of belonging to, and having representation in the body controlling athletics for their sections of the countr.y
-369-

Fourth—That the Athletic Research Society carry on a campaign of Education to the end that

(a)	The social as well as the physical significance of athletics be understood

(b)	Activities be developed that shall reach the greatest possible number

(c)	High standards qf sportsmanship and adherence to regulations be adopted by thos^ in charge and made effective among the participants.

After the presentation of the above report the representative of each institution was called up for a report. Many of these reports were highly interesting. The discussion following also was very illuminating, showing that while each group had its own manner of managing its competitive life they .all saw that there should be a commonly accepted standard of what constituted an amateur. Several speakers showed that if one’s participation in competitive sport is not judged by the motive, then, there is perhaps no amateur sportsman in existance, as probably every one taking part in athletics receives some kind of a reward. This may be in the form of a medal, a. prize of some value, the payment of his traveling expenses, a suit, a sweater, a dispensation from paying dues or tuition fees, etc., or perhaps in such form as social distinction. That the former scheme of recruiting promising athletes for one’s school or college is again strongly in existance was shown by numerous instances.

A strong opposition showed itself against the third recommendation of the. committee, i. e., that societies, schools, playgrounds, settlements, churches, etc., form local groups and join one of the districts of the Amateur .Athletic Union. This recommendation will meet with opposition so long as the Union does not allow these groups a representation in the A. A. U. based on the lmimber of registered participants. The A.

A.	U. so far has set itself against any scheme looking to an equitable representation. The result has been that the policy and practices in athletics are determined by people who represent the attitude of athletic clubs, that is of clubs formed specifically for athletic competition. All the other interests, be they churches^ Y. M. C. A., settlements, Turners, schools, playgrounds, etc., etc., are primarily educational institutions. Competitive sport is to them merely one of the agencies to accomplish their greater ends. Because of this their methods of fostering and regulating athletics will be different from those of a body for whom athletics is an end #nd not merely a means. The discussion showed that there was a strong sentiment everywhere to gather educational interests that have athletic competitions into federations fashioned like the one in Cook county, Illinois, or the one in Charleston, S. C., and other places. The most encouraging part of the whole conference was the fact that everywhere thinking men are coming to *he conclusion that the whole play-life of our nation, be this in form of simple play of small children or in the form of the most violent competition by organized teams, should first of all 'be based on educational ideals. Then, based upon this educational foundation, wise regulations should see that this play-life is also hygienic. Then, based upon these two, regulations should be adopted which will allow the greatest freedom to all who, through training and age, are fit
-370-

to enter competitive sports. The Athletic Research Society invites everyone interested in its work to join its ranks. Address No. I, Madison Ave., New York, Metropolitan Building.

INTERNATIONAL HYGIENE EXHIBITION, DRESDEN, GERMANY,

MAY TO OCTOBER 1911*

The idea of bringing before the professional’ world and the general public the mighty acquisitions of modern hygiene in the form of a comprehensive and universal exhibition, an idea which for years has been warmly advocated in hygienic circles, will find its realization in Dresden in the year 1911.

, , * * *

More than a quarter of a century has elapsed since the last general hygiene exhibition was organized in Germany. At that time hygiene was still an infant science for which as yet no chair was provided in most universities, a science in modest attire, which was considered by many as hardly complete.

What a change has taken place since then! Not only does every university of to-day possess its own hygienic department, but also in all civilized states numerous stations have been established for the science of hygiene. Grand discoveries, especially in the province of bacteriology, enable us to save thousands and thousands of human lives. Technics and industry vie with each other in all1 fields in the application of hygiene to practice. In many cases legislation feels compelled to observe in its measures the precepts of hygiene; and the social ideas of our century have been led by hygiene into new paths, to those imposing movements which aim to increase the pleasure of living and the working strength of mankind, and to preserve nations from dissipation.

The realm of hygiene expands from day to day. Even for the hygiene specialist it is difficult to-day to remain in close connection with the total province of hygiene. It will therefore be of service to him to see the results and acquisitions of recent1 investigation displayed as a well-ordered, systematic whole, in the form of an exhibition. Also physicians, technicists, and administrative officers, as well as all those who cannot devote themselves to special hygiene as intensely as they would like, will welcome the opportunity of easily acquiring the clearest possible view of the present condition of hygiene in theory and in practice.

In this connection, all the hygienic achievements of former ages and nations will1 be comprised in a special section, the historical department. This department will be particularly instructive as showing what splendid provisions were made for the physical development of the individual and of whole races thousands of years ago, and how afterwards in later centuries mankind, through the neglect of hygienic ideas, became a prey to the most frightful suffering and afflictions.

A special characteristic of a hygiene exhibition is its peculiar value 'for the general public. Hygiene has become to-day of capital importance to our whole life, and it is clear beyond, any doubt that it is destined to enjoy a future surpassing all expectations. Although the last

Digitized by <^.ooQle
-371-

century, through the 'exceptional development of human activity, has brought external culture and its technical' appliances to a height never before attained, inner culture on the other hand, the care of man himself, has made no advancement. The feverish competition which has siezed upon all branches of human activity has led inevitably to an overtaxing of strength which threatens to destroy in time the equilibrium of health. Already, as a simple reaction against the exaggerated valuation of external culture, the new century demands a return to the care of man- himself.

It is an actual fact that our generation is, we might say, in a hygienic mood. Man longs for an intensified feeling of good health and demands hygienic instruction.

To lay the foundation for such instruction is another leading subject of the hygiene exhibition. The visitor shall receive here for once a clear conception of the nature of the human body and of the functions of the various organs. He shall see the demonstration of the dangers that threaten the body, he shall learn how he can help towards warding off these dangers and how it is possible to maintain and, if need be, improve the condition of his own health and strength.

A further department will be allotted to sport. The rapid development of physical training as a sport in recent decades has frequently had as its consequences a competition which has led to excess, indeed in a measure, to errors. To exert a discriminating influence and to smooth the way for a truly hygienic pursuit of sport, is the purpose of the sport department. Through the illustration of all kinds of physical exercise, as well as through the scientific demonstration of their effects upon the human body, the principles of hygienic sport shall be exemplified to the physician-, the educator, and also to the layman.

In the totality of all these demonstrations* a broad field will also be offered to the many branches of industry to exhibit their products and to display to administrative bodies as well as to the private citizen those appliances which are of practical assistance in effecting hygienic measures. Here, in the first place, special industries will exhibit the numerous apparatus, instruments, and mechanisms of all kinds which are required for the investigations and technical work of hygienic research and practice. These industrial exhibits may be expected to produce most profitable results. The endeavor to lead a healthful life induces man* to remould many of his surroundings according to hygienic principles; and a large systematic exhibition of model specimens from all fields, which can serve as a guide for individual use in the future, will surely arouse the keenest interest in all circles of the public.

* * *

All these exhibits promote the two main objects of the exhibition; first, to present to the hygiene specialist, physicians, administrative officers, state functionaries, teachers, engineers, political economists the results of the latest hygienic investigations, to give them a distinct picture of all that has been accomplished in the field of hygiene; secondly, to impart hygienic instruction to the people and thus strengthen- in the masses the sentiment for health and hygiene. Where this sentiment is aroused, the professional health worker has a good field of labor, he will easily succeed in winning authority for the demand of hygiene. But it is of the

Digitized by CjOOQle
-372-

great est interest to governments to strengthen the popular sentiment- for physical1 health and hygienic measures. The millions which states even to-day expend for the care of the public health will bear ripe fruit only when the people in their turn show insight and understanding for hygienic measures and principles. If the exhibition is successful in exerting such an influence for the hygienic enlightenment of the people that public consciousness becomes fully alive to the significance of hygiene then the International Hygiene Exhibition of 1911 will effect a work of great import to civilization.

In the following we present the groups of the exhibition and their various subdivisions.

Group I:—Air, Light, Soil, Water.

A.	Air; B. Light; C. Soil; D. Water.

Group II:—Settlements and Dwellings.

A.	Planning of Towns and Cities; B. Planning of Buildings; C. Ventilation; D. Heating; E. Lighting; F. Water Supply; G. Scavenging and Cleaning; H. Disposal of the Dead.

Group III:— Nutrition and Foodstuffs.

A.	Nutrition; B. Animal Foodstuffs; C. Vegetable Foodstuffs; D. Beverages and Condiments; E. Examination of Foods, Beverages, and Condiments.

Group IV:—Clothing and Care of the Body.

A.	Clothing; B. Care of the Body; C. Physical Exercise.

Group V:—Profession and Trades.

A. The Physiological Conditions of Work; B. 'Causes of injuries done to Health during work; C. Injuries in different occupations; D. Labor conditions in relation to Social Hygiene; E. Care of the Working Classes-

Group VI:—Infective Diseases.

A.	Principles of Microbiology; B. General Campaign against Epidemics; C. Disinfection; D. The different Infectious Diseases; E. Animal Epidemics transmissible to man.

Group VII:—Care of the Sick and Life-saving.

A. Care of the Sick; B. Life-saving.

Group VIII:—Children and Adolescents.

A. Care of Infants; B. The School; C. 'Care of Children outside of School.

Group IX:—Traffic.

A. On Land; B. By Water; C.‘Accommodations for Travellers-

Group X:—Army, Navy.

A. Army; B. Marine Hygiene.

Group XI:—Hygiene for the Tropics.

A. Tropical Climate; B. Habitation; C. Mode of Life and Nourishment; D. Clothing; E. Tropical Diseases.

Group XII:—Statistics.

A. Fertility and Increase of Population; B. Morbidity Conditions; C. Mortality Conditions; D. Expenditure for Public Care of Health.

Special Groups.

Tuberculosis, Alcoholism, Venereal Diseases, Cancer Diseases, Diseases of the Teeth.

Digitized by (^.ooQle
-373-

Historical Section.

A. Personal Life; B. Environment,; C. Public Life; D. Hygienic customs, traditions and laws; E. Development of statistics on health and illness; F. Ethnographic supplements and parallels to the history of hy- ■ giene.	_____________ ____________

VENTILATION IN SCHOOLS.*

By W. A. EVANS, M.S., M.D., LL.D., Chicago.

Commissioner of Health, Chicago ; Professor of Hygiene, North-Western University Medical School.

Good air and sunlight are necessary at every age period. Probably this need is never greater than during the school years. From seven to seventeen the body is changing greatly. These are the years of plasticity, and at the same time they are the years in which plasticity begins to give way to crystallizing. It is a bad time for the body to get below par. Habits are being established. Eye accommodation is finding itself; the shape of the lens is being established.

There is some reason for believing that the body is charged with a certain number of potential units. When a certain number have been used; repair is possible. There comes a point beyond which repair cannot be established.

If a child is under strain of eye or brain for ten years in the school room, the effect may not be seen at once, yet it will figure in the failures of recuperation which are experienced years afterward. Therefore the school years are tremendously important.

The Chicago schools are heated by hot dry air. In the higher-grade installations the temperature is held at 72a F. .The relative humidity is 30.	1800	cubic	feet of air per pupil’ per hour is pumped into the room.

In the older installations we frequently find the temperature well over 750 F. and occasionally over 8oa F. It has been assumed that because 1,800 cubic feet per pupil per hour is pumped in the ventilation is as it should be. The assumption is rarely justified.

Many clinical observations have demonstrated that school schildren do not do well in badly ventilated rooms. Dr. A. W. Schram of the Graham School found that such children were prone to infection with the contagious diseases, they had colds, “snuffles,” enlarged glands and tonsils. They were mouth breathers; they were pale, flabby, nervous, and subject to headaches. Principal Watt of the. same school found that they did not learn readily. They were dull and inattentive.

The windows were raised, the dUr made fresh and moist, the temperature was lowered to 60P F. and below, according to the outside temperature. The result was that the children were healthier, freer’ from colds, and infections; the “snuffles” decreased. Besides this the children learned faster and better. The principal, viewing it from the pedagogic standpoint, was more impressed even than the school doctor.

As to light: I am strongly of the opinion that the room, should be narrow; that it should not be wider than twice the distance from the top

• Copyright, William Wood & Company, New York.

Digitized by v^,ooQle
-374-

of the window to the floor; that the proportion of -floor space to wall, space should not- exceed one to four; that the windows should fee so placed as that the light comes from behind or to the side of the pupils, or, rather, that in looking toward their books, the teacher, or the blackboard, Acjr should not have to look directly at a strong light, or their books should not be shadowed so as to strain the eyes.

These effects can be had in various ways. The teacher can be seated at the back of the room with the students* backs to the teacher; or shades pulling up from below can make a dark background for the pupils, or the teacher can be so placed in the room so that	the wall	furnishes	a	dark

background. Blackboards should be treated in	the same	way.

Believing, as I do, that the removal of air	should be	as direct	as	possible, I believe in low ceilings. Between the ceiling and	the heads	of the

occupants of the room is a volume of warm, foul air, which is being chilled and dropping into the breathing zone all of the time. The less space you have, the less foul air there will be to drop back into the breathing zone. I therefore believe in an eight or nine foot ceiling. You will get the operators to heat only a certain volume of air and they will heat the same volume whether the ceiling is eight feet or twelve. By taking off the extra four feet you increase the amount of air which will' be furnished in the breathing zone and that is what counts.

But the principal thing which should interest us is ventilation. The harm which is done by bad air falls into two general groups: The quick acting of air-borne infections, and the slow acting or air-caused conditions. Some illustrations of the former are influenza, common colds and cerebrospinal meningitis, and possibly anterior poliomyelitis, diseases in which the bacteria can be transported considerable distances; pneumonia and tuberculosis, where infections cannot be transported far, and scarlet fever, diphtheria, and measles which can only be transported very short distances.

Illustrations of the latter group are drowsiness, sleepiness, mental hebetude, headache, lassitude, muscular flabbiness, anemia, chlorosis, chorea, abnormal1 menstruation, mental irritability and exaggerated susceptibility.

The causative agents in the first group in the order of their importance are: Bacteria, dust, humidity, heat, organic exhalations and odors; C O and C O2, almost negligible.

The causative factors in the second group in the order of their im-‘ portance are: Heat, humidity, organic exhalations, C O2, C O, bacteria, dust, odors. These different elements, with the exception of bacteria, have been so thoroughly discussed that I need not discuss them now.

Many efforts have been made to discover pathogenic bacteria in air. In these cultures saprophytes usually overgrow, and the tests are negative for tubercle and the usual pathogenic bacteria. Conclusion that pathogenic bacteria are not spread by air cannot be logically drawn. Efforts to find typhoid in a general water supply which we are certain is spreading typhoid fever are unsuccessful. Efforts to find typhoid in a milk supply proved epidemiologically to be typhoid spreading have proven fruitless. Nevertheless, we do not conclude that there is no typhoid there.

The mouth has been filled with Bacillus prodigiosus, and petri plates have been exposed at varying distances, with quiet breathing, talking.
-375-

coughing, etc. From this it has been concluded that bacteria can be thrown through the air about twenty feet, and the inference is drawn that that is the limit of the danger zone. The air in front of quiet breathers has been found to have fewer bacteria than when the same air was inhaled. The sum total of all of these observations is an idea that bacteria are not air borne; that they are spread by physical contact. I contend that the inference is unwarranted. Such experiments would have to be impossibly protracted to give results from which conclusions could be drawn.	•

A person breathes sixteen times a minute for seventy-five years. The absence of pathogenic bacteria from a given cubic yard of air does not prove that there will not be pathogenic bacteria in some of the other yards of air which the man . will breathe in his lifetime. And a man only gets consumption once, scarlet fever and diphtheria once; few get pneumonia more than once. More than that: Let us say that only one man in four gets a tuberculosis infection ; that is a total three hundred year period with sixteen breath intakes during each minute of the three hundred years. What conclusion, then, is justified from a determination of the bacterial content of a single cubic yard of air?

Ventilation in schools is necessary for comfort during September and October, and May, June, July, and August in the Chicago climate. In the south we should add April at the front end of the season and November at the rear end. We may say, then, that a study of ventilation resolves itself into a study of ventilation for the months of November, December, January, February, March, and April. It is not of much importance during November and April. January and February are the very trying months.

It has been our observation that school air is too hot and too dry. • The temperature has ranged from 70° to 8o°; the humidity has been 30 to 40. The dust content has not been high. The odors are objectionable in certain schools in the poorer parts of town and in many schools on rainy days.

The Chicago schools are heated and ventilated as one item. The system used is the Waters. The air is taken in about thirty feet above the ground. It is not cleaned. It is heated to about no° to 130°, according to the temperature of the outside air, the velocity and the direction of the wind, and the sunshine. It is discharged into the school room at a point above the head of the teacher, by a large opening. It is discharged under an average velocity of 37° cubic feet per minute. It is exhausted near the floor line and usually on the same wall as the inlet. ' Eighteen hundred cubic feet per pupil per hour is pumped in.

The theory is that the air, being hot and going at a considerable velocity, will rise to the ceiling and flow across to the opposite wall, where it will fall from wall chill and then flow back along the floor to find its outlet. The system is plenum. Should the system work according to theory, the breathing zone of the children at the desks would be dead, and, therefore, polluted, air. As a matter of fact there are many currents and the air begins dropping to the floor almost as soon as it issues. The children situated back in the room do not get a very good supply of air. Much of the air short-circuits from the inlet to the outlet after travelling a short distance in the room.

Digitized by

Google
-376—

What is the remedy proposed?

First:—Reduce the terpperature of the rooms to a maximum of 68°. This temperature is more bracing. In such a temperature the exhaled air, being hot and moist, will rise right out of the breathing zone and be supplied by purer air.

Second:—Raise the humidity from 60 to 70. No possible objection can be raised to this except that it costs money to evaporate water and the windows will frost when the outside temperature gets to 20° F. and below. The best way to humidify is to introduce a spray of steam into the column of incoming air, if the air is to be pumped in. If the humidity is raised to 60, the pupils will be comfortable with a temperature of 68° F. What is saved on coal, as between ,72° F. and. 68° F., will more than compensate for the steam which is used to. humidify. 'Some of the frosting of the windows can be prevented by putting a radiator under each window. In certain rare instances a fan throwing enough air against the glass to keep it warm can be used to prevent frosting. But, what harm does frosting do, any way? Its harm is negligible as compared with the harm of over-dry air. It keeps out but little light, and under certain, conditions of sunlight will give a mellower, softer light .than the unobstructed pane. If the air is brought into the room through the jadjators, it can be humidified by pans of water or by some of the patent lyumidifiers.

Third:—Blow out the air in the room at stated intervals. This is best done by raising the windows and allowing the air to blow briskly through. A change of the air four times an hour will, be effected by currents which are so mild that they will not lift bacteria. In consequence the bacterial flora of the air neither decreases nor increases unless it is being modified by animal inhabitation. If, however, the wind blows briskly in and out through windows, the bacterial flora of the air will be reduced 99 per cent. Practically, the way to effect this is to have the teacher throw up the windows when- the children go out at recess. When they return they are warm, they have just made heat by exercising. By the time their heat equilibrium has returned to normal the heat equilibrium of the room will have been reestablished.

Fourth:—Decrease the dust content of the air of the school room by having the students at the blackboards use an eraser which is very slightly damp. A piece of cheesecloth fastened over the eraser does well; or the fat can be extracted from an ordinary eraser by ether or naphtha. If the eraser is too moist the board dries slowly.

Fifth:—Introduce the air into the room so as to keep the expired air as much separated from the fresh air as possible. This means direct removal of the air from the breathing zone. This cannot be done if the room is heated and ventilated by the same air. Such air is introduced at no° F. to 130° F. If it was introduced near the floor and the outlets were placed near the ceiling the hot air would rush straight from the inlet to the outlet and it would be very difficult to prevent great loss of heat. The only feasible thing to do when heating and ventilation is done with the same air is to put the hot air in high and take it out low. The more rational plan is to have the air enter directly from the outside through holes in the walls; these holes to be closed by adjustable diaphragms. The air should pass directly through radiators and be discharged into the
-377-

room at such a temperature as to maintain a temperature of 65° F. td 68° F.; other radiation to be a hot water or ste'am gravity system. The radiators should have water evaporating attachments. The air shbuld'be introduced in the room at several different points through ducts inside the room, with many openings in the ducts; tTie exits to be on the inner walls at, in, or near the ceiling; the gathering ducts to lead to the attic with the smallest possible number of turns or angles. In a windy, cold climate, e.g. that of Chicago, the duct should lead to a central large exhaust fan in the attic! In a less cold climate,, for example, Cincinnati or Louisville, the ducts can lead directly to the roof and open, to the outside, surmounted .with one of the perflation devices to accelerate suction and to prevent down; draft. The philosophy of this suggestion is that when the weather is not extremely cold, and all. bends and turns are eliminated from the exhaust ducts, the fans can be eliminated. In a milder climate such as that at Memphis, the ducts can be made to discharge from each room directly to the outside air, the outlet being at the ceiling line. In the far south, e.g. New Orleans and Mobile, the windows can be used all winter long, both for inlets and outlets, with this single suggestion, that the radiators be so placed as that they will come a foot or two higher than the bottom of the window. When in cold weather the window is raised six inches or a foot from the bottom, the cold air which enters through the opening will pass through the radiation.

The advantages of such a method over the present method are:

1,	The cost of installation will be less than the cost of installation at present employed. The system of ducts is much simpler and the capacity of the fans will be much less.

2.	The cost ofr maintenance will be much less.

(a)	On still days the fans will not run at all.

(b)	On windy days the fans need only be used to exhaust the air from the rooms on the leeward side. The rooms on the windward side will exhaust without any artificial aid.

(c)	The volume of air needed per pupil per hour can be reduced from 2,000 cubic feet per pupil per hour to 1,000-cubic feet per pupil per hour, or even less where the foul air is removed without much admixture with the fresh. In the language of the British Departmental Committee on Ventilation of Factories and Workshops, 1907, “The quantity of air depends on the distribution ; and in many cases a relatively small quantity .well distributed is far more effective than a large quantity badly distributed^ .

The clinical observations upon which this paper is founded have been made by. the Chicago School. Inspectors under the direction of Dr. I. D.. Rawlings and especially by Dr. A. W. Schram.

The chemical, bacteriological, and physical examinations have been made by the chemists in the City Laboratory.

The observations on the pedagogic side have been made by Principal Watt.

—On the ground, it is said, the students of the university have not heeded his appeals to participate in college athletics as they should, Mr. Craighead, the president, has announced that hereafter Tulane will have a

Digitized by CaOOQle
-37d~

taste of compulsory athletics. Every freshman and sophomore at the university will be compelled to take a certain amount of exercise prescribed by the faculty. Outdoor work will constitute the greater part of the physical requirements.	_________ ____________

TRAMPING/

fay IvOrle Stecuer, Bryn Mawrj Pa.

Being a short synopsis of the Girman book ,fDas Wandern".

“We call the young out into beautiful nature where they can strengthen their bodies, quicken- their senses arid enrich their minds. In company with congenial, energetic wanderers, to the sound of joyful songs, with small purse but glad -heart they shall rtiake pilgrimages through the fields of their fatherland, (they shall) avoid as much as possible the inns with their luxurious table and soft beds.... .lA well filled knapsack, a wanderer’s staff and a joyous heart—these art his only baggage and with these he goes easily through the world.” Thus a German writer describes the holiday pleasure of a genuine “WanderVogel.” It was to secure to youth the pleasures of intimacy with nature, the sense of the charm of hill and valley, the delight in the simple primitive life that great men such as Rousseau and Jahn and Goethe have believed in—it was for these purposes that organizations like the Wandervogel (migratory birds) were formed years ago in Europe and are beginning to be formed in America. This conscious striving for “Return to Naturie” after the example of Rousseau had as its practical purpose the regenerating of the nation’s stock, exhausted after long years of civil and international war. The movement reveals, however, to the thoughtful mind, merely the cropping out of the old unquenchable instinct of Wanderlust, the restlessness that incited the tribes of old to their world wandering ahd urges the youth of to-day to make trial of the world. This spirit, which has animated traveling scholars throughout the ages, lead in 1876 to the definite organization of the French “Caravanes Scolaires.” Then the agitation for such wanderers’ clubs lead in- Germany to the organization of many societies, the foremost of which are the “Alt Wandervogel (first organized) and the “New Wandervogel.” Since 1898 the number of these societies has multiplied until now every little village school, every trade union, has its regular walking trips. In our consideration of the subject we cannot do better than follow the plan of H. Raydt and Fritfc Eckardt in their exhaustive book “Das Wandern.’* After the introduction, which gives one a wonderful feeling of the charm and joyousness of these “journeys of the bees in search of the honey of life,” as Vater Jahn called them, they take up a series of book reviews, the value and purpose of wandering as a source of true education, self control, self denial; they dwell on the knowledge of geography and national history which a child will absorb by seeing, hearing, collecting, on these observation tours; oh the virtues of sympathy, social feelings, humanity, which spring up under the beneficent influences that surround the wanderers.

* ,,Das Wandern“ by H. Raydt und F. Eckardt. Second edition, published by B. G. Teubner, Leipzig, 1 Mark 20 PFennige.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—•379—

In a second chapter the authors treat of the modes pf wandering that are in use in Germany, the mere pleasure excursion of a "group of students under a teacher, the class trip which is prescribed by the' board of school directors as a regular school exercise, the “Turn-march” a strenuous endurance walk on the order of the prescribed military exercises, the vacation trip lasting perhaps a few weeks and including short train journeys, even the walk which is a series pf games, relay races, hare and hound hunts. The authors urge that wpmen and girls be given opportunity to enjoy such excursions also. They urge furthermore, that school festivals be more generally held m the wopds and > fields ^whither th£ whole school can march as a merry yet orderly company. Hill and mountain clifnbing, snow-shoe and skating journeys in winter, night tramps by moonlight or in the early hours of the morning, walks toward the sunrise—all these delightful forms of wandering are suggested.

The third chapter deals with difficulties in the way of wandering and shows how they are met in Germany. As to the question of whether the school is justified in compelling children’s attendance on the tramps, the authors, after dwelling on the benefit to the child of individualistic tendencies, of such social exercise, express the belief that school boards should make compulsory not only certain “play afternoons,” as has already been done in many German states, but also regular class excursions. This of course brings up the difficulty of the responsibility for the saTety of the pupils. In Germany this is met by the laws compelling any pen-son who acts as leader for a company of wanderers to take out accident insurance. This may seem to work something of a hardship for the teacher, but benefits are being secured by teachers’ organizations which often have their own insurance departments. The time consumed by such wandering is another difficulty not so much for school children as for business men. This is met by conducting the walks on Sunday. Surely no time could be better for such physical and spiritual refreshment. The cost of all trips is kept as low as possible. It has been found that a child spends on the average 16 pfennig (4 cents) a day. The “Alt Wander-vogel” reports that its members spend I Mark (25 cents) a day-in addition to train fare. “Ueber Berg und Thai” tells that a 5 day excursion, including railway fare,’cost each person 5,50 Mary ($1.38) and a 9 day trip 11,57 Mark ($2.89.) In many places there is a public appropriation for the use of schools and societies. The last great necessity, that of competent, enthusiastic leaders, can be met only by enthusiasm on the part of teachers and by gradual training of the physically and socially qualified among the older wanderers. The cause is being greatly helped by the railway companies who convey parties of wanderers at reduced rates, and by inn keepers who accommodate the members of the great excursions, sometimes scores in number, at a small price per person.

The closing chapters are occupied with some excellent instruction about planning the route, equipping the party, * provisioning, camping* rendering aid in case of accidents, etc.

. . After reading of what is being done in Europe in the field of organized wanderings one is filled with the. hope that the time is not far off when America, too. shall have in every town some society like the Wandervogel. It would be a potent means of reform, education and inspiration to the dwellers in our crowded cities.

gitized by v^ooQle
“	“	“	r	-	•	Published	Mantlur•

MuspftND body. * PRE1DiNKER P"UBLISHM0 ro,

tatecitytlra Prlot, fl.00 per Year.	Tr»tt	Wlaocn^a.

49” AddxtM all buaneu letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Harold Bldg.; Milwaukee, Wta Address all editorial cortesptadence to WM. A. STECHER, 7a W. Johnsod St, Germantown Phil., Pa.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS.

' —DURING THE MONTH of January the Playground Associations of America has been conducting Playground Institutes in Pittsburg, in Baltimore, in Detroit, and in Holyoke. The purpose of these institutes was to make possible an exchange of ideas, and to allow a full and free discussion of the problems of playground administration. As quite a ntifcnber bf representative men and women were selected to address and conduct these meetings the results should show themselves during the coining season in more efficient work. It appears to us that the results of such institutes would be still greater if practical work as well as lectures wer^ attempted. We do not mean exhibitions of work by children,' but work? done by the members of the institute themselves.

—THE NEW YORK CITY PUBLIC SCHOOLS, whose physical training is under the direction of Dr. C. Ward Crampton, have instituted a: plan of qlocal supervision” of physical training. This plan provides for the appointment of the principal or the assistant to principal in the school, or a teacher with sufficient time, to the duty of supervising the physical training work in classrooms, gymnasia, playgrounds, etc.

Meetings for these local supervisors have been held and general directions given. For the reason that the local supervisors were comparatively new to the subject, a circular stating “what to see in the classrooms was printed and is given in this issue of the Mind and Body. Dr. Crampton states that “The whole emphasis of physical training work must be removed from mere method and placed \ipon the getting of results. We must depart from 'the doing of things’ and arrive at ‘getting things done.’ ” These suggestions have met with so milch favor that an extra edition of 10,000 was printed to meet the demands of class teachers who wanted to produce results fot the local1 supervisor to “see.”

NIGHTAIR AND . HEALTH.

We are in the midsit of the season when the days are shortest and the hours of sunshine fewest. We are also at the time when respiratory affections are commonest. “Colds,’’ as they are called, are, however, set down without more ado as due tp changes, of temperature, and the possible connection between these bothersome .ailments mid lack of sunshine and -fresh air is very little considered. If theseconditions. are supposed to enter as causes of"the greater liability to.diseases <Jf the air passages it is only because of the tiladitidnal hannfulness of night air and the necessity ior greater exposure

Digitized by v^ooQle