MIND AND BODY

Vol. 24.	FEBRUARY, 1918 No.	266

Published By THE MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 45 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter October 14. 1916, at the post office at New Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

O ».....  "»i	—i	          O

| ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS J

O I WM I	I	.1	I	HU	 11 III .... —	Q

THE BALANCE BETWEEN THE MENTAL AND THE PHYSICAL

EDITH L. HILDERBRANT, Harvey, 111.

To give physical perfection and to promote health, to afford diversion, to remedy bodily defects, to train the neuromuscular glandular mechanism, to develop social attributes, and to cultivate the finest ethical qualities — these are aims which physical education seeks to accomplish. Underlying them and unifying all is the purpose of maintaining a proper balance between the mental and the physical. A fine physique tenanted by a depraved or feeble mind inspires no esteem. A powerful intellect can soon exhaust the energies of the weak constitution which it whips into service. How to keep the body in such prime condition that the mind can work to the limit of its capacity without the distraction of emergency calls from a closely related physical being, is a problem set for physical education to solve.

Digitized by kjOOQle
438

To excel in mental attainments requires great generating power. This power is produced in the largest quantities in strong, healthy bodies equipped with organs that functionate properly — organs that convert food, air, and water into energy, physical and mental. For those who would engage successfully in the competition of the age, whether as statesmen, lawyers, inventors, merchantmen, or winners of souls, vital power is a primary requisite. The brillant scholar who utterly disregards his physique may hold the attention of the world for a moment, but the person who maintains a fine balance between the mental and the physical eventually outstrips the star performer and is the one that actually makes a success of life.

Good scholarship is promoted by proper bodily development. The sooner a student understands that his health will be a great determining factor in his college career, the greater will be his opportunity for conserving energy. As his vital powers develop, his chances for success in life will become proportionately greater.

The ability is given to few to excel in both physical and mental accomplishments. It sometimes happens that a person makes bodily training an end in itself rather than a means to an end which it rightfully is. The interest with which some college students have engaged in athletic sports, and the time that they have devoted to them at the expense of their academic subjects, have made it necessary for Harvard, Yale, and many other institutions of learning to require that their athletes reach and maintain a certain high standard in scholastic work before engaging in competitive athletics. These schools find that the best scholars have not only the best physiques, but that they also have better moral principles.

Investigations made by Doctor Sargent at Harvard and Yale, by President Hyde at Bowdoin, by Doctor Porter in the elementary schools at St. Louis, and by others in various schools emphasize strongly the relation between the physical and the mental. A small investigation conducted last year in an Illinois high school gave results that corresponded favorably with previous findings.

The fifty girls having the lowest grades in physical training were compared in scholarship with the fifty girls who ranked highest. . The result really showed a contrast instead of a comparison.

Of the grades in academic subjects ranging between 90 and 100, the “low fifty” received 367, while the “high fifty” earned 588. In all groups of grades below 90 the “low fifty” received the most. They were given-675 between 80 and 90, while the “high fifty” received 641. Of the grades between 70 and 80, the “low fifty” received 100 more than the “high fifty,” the numbers being, respectively, 283 and 183. The “low fifty” had almost a hundred more failures, having made 165 where as the “high fifty” had only 67. In regard to exemptions from examinations, the “low fifty” had only 88, while the “high fifty” had 144.

A similar investigation conducted the following semester showed even more marked differences. The following tables show the results rather strikingly. Letters are used for grades,

Digitized by LjOOQle
A representing 100 to 95; a, 94—90; B, 89—85; b, 84—80, C, 80 —75; c, 74—70; and F, failure. Standings in the formal studies were given out every four weeks for five months. The grade in physical training is the semester grade.

GRADES OF FIFTY PUPILS RANKING LOWEST IN PHYSICAL TRAINING

No. of Pupil	Phys. Tr. Grade	Exemptions A		a	B	b	C	C	F
1.	F	0	1	4	0	6	5	6	8
2.	F	0	0	0	4	4	10	4	8
3.	F	0	0	0	0	0	0	0	19
4.	F	0	0	9	10	4	0	4	6
5.	F	2	0	6	9	5	0	2	3
6.	F	0	0	0	5	13	5	2	3
7.	F	0	0	2	5	7	5	3	8
8.	F	0	0	5	0	8	6	2	3
9.	F	0	0	2	5	5	11	0	6
10.	F	0	3	5	5	9	1	0	0
11.	F	0	0	3	8	10	6	5	1
12.	F	0	0	0	0	2	3	7	17
13.	F	0	0	5	1	2	3	4	15
14.	F	0	0	0	0	3	5	4	23
15.	F	0	0	3	6	6	6	5	4
16.	F	6	0	16	11	2	1	0	0
17.	F	0	1	0	7	11	5	3	3
18.	F	0	1	3	3	12	3	2	0
19.	c	2	0	6	10	2	2	0	0
20.	c.	0	0	2	3	7	11	4	3
21.	c	0	0	0	9	8	6	1	6
22.	c	0	0	1	10	7	3	0	4
23.	c	3	1	11	7	6	0	0	0
24.	o	5	1	13	9	6	1	0	0
25.	c	0	0	0	3	6	4	3	11
26.	c	0	0	3	11	5	3	3	5
27.	c	2	1	4	6	8	9	1	1
28.	c	0	4	3	2	0	1	2	12
29.	c	0	0	0	0	3	5	4	13
30.	c	0	0	1	2	3	1	3	16
31.	c	0	0	0	1	9	14	4	5
32.	c	0	4	14	2	1	4	0	5
33.	c	6	1	10	18	1	0	0	0
34.	C	0	0	0	0	7	11	3	9
35.	C	0	0	0	4	7	6	2	5
36.	C	0	0	0	6	5	10	1	3
37.	C	0	0	0	4	6	1	3	16
38.	C	0	4	3	2	4	7	1	4
39.	C	0	0	7	6	7	3	2	0
40.	C	4	7	5	11	2	0	0	0
41.	C	5	6	10	8	0	1	0	0

Digitized by UjOOQle
440

GRADES OF FIFTY PUPILS RANKING LOWEST IN PHYSICAL TRAINING. (CONT.)

No. of Pupil	Phys. Tr. Grade	Exemptions	A	a	B	b	C	c	F
42.	G	5	3	13	9	4	1	0	0
43.	C	2	0	7	9	13	1	0	0
44.	C	2	2	9	9	9	1	0	0
45.	C	2	0	5	7	10	2	1	0
46.	C	0	0	0	1	3	8	2	21
47.	C	0	1	1	9	9.	4	2	0
48.	C	1	0	6	14	11	3	1	0
49.	C	0	0	5	2	5	6	1	11
50.	C	0	0	1	IQ	11	5	1	4
			41	203	283	294	209	104	281

GRADES OF FIFTY PUPILS RANKING HIGHEST IN PHYSICAL TRAINING.

No. of Phys. Tr. Exemptions Pupil Grade			A	a	B	b	C	C	F
1.	A	7	4	26	5	0	0	0	0
2.	A	0	0	1	6	13	3	0	2
3.	A	1	0	2	11	15	6	1	0
4.	A	7	4	26	3	2	0	0	0
5.	A	4	3	15	6	5	1	0	0
6.	A	0	0	3	13	7	3	1	8
7.	A	3	0	11	11	13	0	0	0
8.	A	1	0	7	11	7	1	0	0
9.	A	4	0	9	17	9	0	0	0
10.	A	5	2	18	5	4	1	0	0
11.	A	5	19	6	0	0	0	0	0
12.	A	6	17	9	4	0	0	0	0
13.	A	2	2	8	11	10	3	0	0
14.	A	4	0	6	17	6	0	0	0
15.	A	5	4	11	12	2	1	0	0
16.	A	0	0	0	3	3	5	11	8
17.	A	6	18	7	5	0	0	0	0
18.	A	3	2	9	6	9	3	1	0
19.	A	5	3	10	8	7	1	0	0
20.	A	2	0	6	17	6	1	0	0
21.	A	0	0	5	2	8	9	0	6
22.	A	' 4	0	16	10	4	3	1	1
23.	A	1	0	4	11	9	4	1	1
24.	A	7	14	19	2	0	0	0	0
25.	A	3	2	11	2	0	0	0	3
26.	A	0	0	2	10	11	4	3	5
27.	A	0	1	3	8	10	0	1	7
28.	A	4	15	5	0	0	0	0	0

Digitized by
441

GRADES OF FIFTY PUPILS RANKING HIGHEST

IN PHYSICAL TRAINING. (CONT.)

No. of Phys. Tr. Exemptions Pupil Grade			A	a	B	b	C	c	F
29.	A	5	0	17	7	1	0	0	0
30.	A	0	3	6	8	5	1	0	5
31.	A	6	1	16	10	3	0	0	0
32.	A	4	1	14	5	0	0	0	0
33.	A	5	8	14	2	0	0	0	0
34.	A	0	1	5	2	4	2	1	9
35.	A	5	1	9	8	0	0	0	0
36.	A	0	4	1	6	7	2	0	1
37.	A	5	4	10	8	7	1	0	0
38.	A	0	0	2	4	15	5	2	1
39.	A	6	0	17	10	2	0	0	0
40.	A	0	3	3	5	7	2	1	1
41.	A	5	2	14	12	1	1	0	0
42.	A	0	1	14	7	6	4	0	2
43.	A	4	2	17	12	2	1	1	0
44.	A	0	0	1	5	3	6	3	12
45.	A	0	0	8	2	4	7	4	5
46.	A	0	1	2	5	16	6	3	2
47.	A	0	0	0	0	7	6	4	8
48.	A	6	3	11	11	9	1	0	0
49.	A	6	1	16	11	2	0	0	0
50.	. A	6	20  166	9  461	1  357	0  261-	0  94	0  39	0  87

A quick comparison of the grades is afforded by the following brief summary:

Exemptions A a B b . C c F Low Fifty:	47	41	203 283 294 209 104 281

High Fifty:	150	166	461 357 261	94	39	87

The conclusion is that bodily training is highly essential to the highest intellectual development. Granting that the marked contrast shown above may be due partly to differences in natural endowment, yet is it not reasonable to suppose that directed activities, by developing and training the neuro-muscular system, have contributed to the excellence in scholarship? Training the senses and the mechanisms through which our ideas are expressed is essentially the work of physical education. Games, gymnastics, free exercises, athletics and apparatus work are the means employed.

These activities renovate the whole organism. They increase the respiration, thus bringing to the tissues necessary oxygen and nutriment, and carrying away the waste products which result from oxidation. There is a greater demand throughout the organism for more and better blood. The heart action improves. Red corpuscles which have been stagnating in out of the way places are

Digitized by UjOOQle
442

pressed into service as carriers of oxygen and other nourishment to the body cells. The nutrition provided increases the growth and development not only of those organs concerned with the purely vegetative processes, but also of the others including the central nervous tissue which governs the whole.

The brain like any other organ requires food. Its cells are tom down by use and must be replaced by the oxidation of new material brought by the better circulation. But improving the blood supply is not the only way in which exercise helps in the growth and development of the brain. Most craniums conceal within their bony walls comparatively vast areas of brain tissue that is actually lying dormant. No stimulus has ever been sent there to arouse action.	v

Some of the unused portions are in a semi-atrophied condition. Activity develops the brain by providing stimuli that reach and use those stores of energy. Exercise of a brain cell furthers its growth just as the exercise of a muscle fiber conduces to its development. A brain center cannot receive and send messages without expending energy, without tearing down old cells and building ui> new, without growing. Hence the more active it is, provided always that it is not overworked, the greater will be its growth both in size and in complexity.

Motor activities excite the sensations that bring about mental development. If the action of the muscles is arrested, the action of the brain will be arrested. If the movements of the muscles are simple, the structure and development of the brain will be simple. If muscular action is vigorous, varied, and difficult, the action of the brain will be forceful, and the structure of that organ will be correspondingly complex.

In performing a new and difficult exercise new brain centers are aroused to activity, new brain paths are established, new associations are built up. Because of this the brain develops and becomes capable of controlling more and more difficult movements. Not only the motor area, the part that controls voluntary movements, but also the intellectual centers grow. Our mental power is the outgrowth of physical activity. We have a brain because we first had muscles. Our great problem now is to preserve the correct relation between the two by educating both body and mind.

Rousseau says, “the great secret of education is to manage it so that the training of the mind and body shall serve to assist each other”. Really that is the key to the whole process. We have come to understand that the mind is not a receptacle into which knowledge can be poured with the assurance that it will remain there. Scientific study proves beyond a doubt that knowledge is not gained in such a manner, and that whatever information is given to a person without opportunity for muscular activity does in no wise become a part and parcel of him.

One may acquire something that is purely mental — a theorem, so-called; but before it becomes a lasting possession, it must be proved. And the proof can be made only through action. Only

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
443

after expression through muscular activity can an idea take permanent form. That bodily training aids in the cultivation of mental faculties is beyond the stage of argumentation. It is an accepted fact.

He who wishes a practical education can get it in no quicker, surer way than by putting his muscles to work. We learn to do by doing. Reading and hearing everything in the world about a certain power will not develop in one that same attribute unless he puts forth muscular effort to gain it. There is lying latent in our muscles today enormous power that needs only a few stimuli to enable us to accomplish wonderful results-.

One’s conduct upon a given occasion depends upon his previous motor expression. Whether or not a youth finds it easy to extend a courtesy, for instance opening a door for another, or to perform an act of courage such as rescuing a drowning person, depends upon how his muscles have conducted themselves upon former occasions under similar environmental conditions. If he hesitates to do the proper thing, he shows a lack of training. If he is prompt, it is evident that his muscles have performed like actions before.

With the action of the muscles the will becomes exercised. Willing is doing. Doing strengthens the will. And so we have, as a result of muscular activity the development of will power. The will thus becomes an important factor in determining one’s conduct. If it is weak, it bespeaks a weak character; if strong, it has been active in the building of a strong personality.

He who fails to do what is right simply lacks the will to do what is right. It may be his fault and it may not. He may never have had sufficient opportunity to exercise the will to strengthen it. His obvious duty is to engage in activities that permit of free exercise of the will. The games and plays of youth furnish numerous opportunities.

If the student would have a superior will and an efficient instrument with which to carry out its orders, he must early recognize the unity of body and mind. He must understand how fallacious are efforts to improve the one while neglecting the other. It is certainly no more to a scholar’s credit to master French and four other languages, or to solve the most intricate problems in differential calculus, than it is to learn how to live most efficiently.

It is unfortunate indeed that our modem school system permits people to graduate from universities without having learned the first principles of living. In acquiring an education — that is, in making preparation for life — students have neglected to live. They have failed utterly and unwittingly in their aim to learn how to live. There are those who spend four years behind the doors of our best universities without discovering even a single form of recreation to relieve the tedium of study, or to add to the joy of living when they get outside.

Many a disordered liver has blocked the way to skill, wealth, fame and happiness. Weak lungs, sluggish circulation, and feeble digestion are not compatible with success. The body of an invalid is a poor abode for the mind of a Socrates. In a broken body.

Digitized by f^ooQle
444

the mind cannot possibly work its will; from the fallen t&bemacle, the soul takes its flight.

We have come to associate rapid thought with the quick pulse, — exercise with health and mental attainments. Activity stimulates thought production. Every nation that has achieved eminence intellectually has just previously enjoyed a period of pronounced physical vigor. Since most people are engaged in employments that draw upon rather than contribute to whatever they may have in the way of an annuity-fund of health, outside effort must be made to conserve the vital forces. Training in this direction should begin early. Before one acquires faulty habits of living, he should learn what contributes most fully to his fullest possible development. He should through physical education cultivate so thoroughly his physical powers that they act strictly according to the laws of Nature, in a being sb harmoniously developed that the master mind has but to command and the servant body promptly and speedily executes.

"Let us not always say,

‘Spite of this flesh today

I strove, made head, gained ground upon the whole!'

As the bird wings and sings,

Let us cry, ‘All good things

Are ours, nor soul helps flesh more, now, than flesh helps soul!' ”

—Robert Browning.

GENERAL PEDAGOGY OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.

By EMIL RATH, Indianapolis, Indiana.

Modes of Execution.

(Continued)

Physical Edcauction activities given under the direction of an instructor may be either performed by one individual following another in a regulated manner, in which case we speak of it as squad work, or by a group of individuals simultaneously when it is termed class or group work. Both modes are important.

In squad work the individuals of each squad perform independently of one another. The instructor, coach, or squad leader states the activity, demonstrates it if necessary, and then the single members of the squad take their turn in order. It is a method employed in the teaching of apparatus work, tumbling, athletics and certain plays and tricks used in the highly organized games. A number of squads may be busy at one time under the supervision of an instructor and so aligned that none will interfere with the other. It closely approaches personal instruction since one individual at a time comes under the direct observation of the teacher although only for a short period. This gives an opportunity to observe and correct mistakes and give valuable hints as to execution not possible in class work. Jahn introduced it on his playground (Hasenheide) after he found that equipment alone,

Digitized by Google
445

despite the guidance of himself and associates would not produce progress and all-round development.

This style of performance prescribes no precisely defined executions. There is no signal when to begin or cease. It gives the pupils freedom of action which admits of individuality in execution. In all types of activities, however, athletics and games as well as apparatus work, the law of economy prevails and each one endeavors to obtain the best results with the least expenditure of effort.

In class work the entire group or part of it performs simultaneously. The instructor names the exercise, demonstrates it if necessary and upon seme signal (command) starts the class. It is employed in the teaching of tactics, all kinds of free exercises, tumbling, apparatus work, preparatory track and field work, all forms of dancing, and in teaching certain swimming movements. Preliminary exercises in boxing, wrestling and various forms of fencing and bayonet practice are also given as group work. In all the branches named the entire class may be kept busy at one time excepting in tumbling, apparatus work and some forms of track and field work. These may also be taught to the whole class if, for instance, in tumbling and athletics enough space is at hand or in exercises on apparatus enough apparatus are present. When these are lacking a certain number of the class perform at one time. (See Alignments.)

Advantages. The individuality is lost in this formal work or group instruction. On the other hand, it enables the instructor to (1) better observe his pupils (an aid to discipline); (2) note their work and progress; (3) apply a more methodic and progressive teaching of the various branches, and (4) completely utilize the entire physical education period or part of it, a rather important factor when the time devoted to this work is so inadequate. Furthermore, there is (5) absolute subordination to the will of the instructor necessary and usually obtained which accustoms pupils to willfully submit to properly constituted authority. There is further (6) a sense of common action developed by such activities as require more than one for their execution, which aids in the development of the co-operative instinct. These values make formal physical education work so invaluable a part of the whole scheme of education that some time should be devoted to it in some form of activity on the playground as well as in the gymnasium. The pupil becomes a well trained member of a group realizing that he is but a part of an organized whole.

There are variations of group work which frequently are made use of to maintain interest. Thus in open order work of any kind the files may perform the same exercises in opposite direction to one another, one file (or half of class) starting left, the other file (class) right; or they may perform different exercises, one going forward, the other backward; or move in unlike direction to another, one going sideward and the other forward or backward; or in groups of three files, the center one performing forward or backward and the outer ones inward and outward. Many other variations of

Digitized by L^ooQle
446

this kind are possible. Furthermore, each rank may perform an exercise in opposite or unlike direction to the next rank, or even perform different exercises. This kind of group work is called “Divided Order Work” and is frequently used for exhibitions because of the pretty groupings which may thus be established. It must not, however, be overdone in regular lessons. The simple forms of divided order work may be used for the repetition of known exercises.

Companion exercises are also a variation of group work. They consist of such activities as require the co-operation of two or more individuals for their execution. They occur mostly in folk and gymnastic dancing (couple dances and those for three or more members), free exercises and tumbling, but also, though not so frequently, in apparatus work.

Other variations. The free manner of presentation (See Forms of Presentation) is also a form of class work since the entire group is working although independently of each other. Apparatus work ' and other activities which a part of the class performs simultaneously, should also be frequently given in a free manner rather than to the command and rhythm set by the instructor. The instructor merely signals each group when to start and permits them to finish at their lesiure before the next group starts. These various groups may even follow each other in different activities rotating from one to another as e. g., travelling on the horizontal ladders, then vaulting over horses, then walking on the balance beam, then climbing, and finally some form of jumping. At least four to six pieces of each apparatus are necessary. In such activities as travelling (handwalking) the next in order need not wait until the one preceding finishes. These forms are an agreeable change both to the instructor and pupil and should be frequently used.

Class work in German educational gymnastics was probably first started by Pestalozzi when he endeavored to teach his pupils his Gelenkuebungen (joint exercises) with, however, but little success. It remained for Spiess to make this style of work popular when he arranged gymnastics for school instruction and placed it on an equal footing with other educational branches. To do this he considered it essential to teach whole classes at once just as was done in other subjects instead of using Jahn's method. It was a part of the Swedish system from the very beginning.

Thus formal work found its way into physical education through the need of teaching as many as possible with rather limited equipment, time and space. Today informal and formal work are both utilized.

Informal execution is principally used during the free play periods which precede or follow formal instruction. During that period the pupils practice what was taught during the formal work perfecting certain stunts, trying out new ones and testing their strength, skill and endurance in the form of play. Each pupil works independently of the other although it often occurs that a number are trying the same thing. One jumps, another is on the rings, on the horizontal bar or circle swing, here a group is vault-

Digitized by L^ooQle
447

ing, etc. It is such a familiar sight that it needs no further description.

The instructor is busy observing that no pupil attempts dangerous work or such stunts as are beyond his strength, that there is no interference and no possibility of accidents. He is constantly about, making corrections, giving suggestions and hints, demonstrating occasionally, encouraging the timid and holding the daring within bounds. The free play period is a very busy one for the instructor and demands that he be wide awake. If games and athletic events are also included a very large space must be had such as are found on the playgrounds and in recreation centers. Thus informal work supplements the regular instruction and is not a procedure of its own.

Guts-Muths’ early beginnings at Schnepfenthal were probably conducted in this way as well as Jahn’s work on the playground which soon gave way in many activities to squad work.

Values. Individuality and initiative are developed from this form of work. Each pupil is free from restraint and may do what he wishes after his own fashion. There is also a tendency present to try all sorts of new stunts and plays which often present ideas to the instructor for further development. Furthermore, the natural leader usually asserts himself in this period which a ju-, dicious instructor will know how to make use of. Offering so many opportunities of leadership this quality is often brought out < in free play. Its values are so important that every physical education period should partly be devoted to free play.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION FROM THE RECREATIVE*

VIEWPOINT.

GEO. ELLSWORTH JOHNSON, Asst. Prof. Ed. Harvard.

One of our critics has said that formal physical exercises are “a means of getting the greatest amount of exhaustion with the least amount of exercise”. While I quote this good-natured bit of good-natured raillery, at which no one of us could take offense, in the way of a little pleasantry at the beginning of a very dry paper, I do think that physical education ought to recede as far as possible from dictated movements and seek a basis in activities that are	self-suggesting.	It was a fundamental principle of Froe-

bel’s educational philosophy, that a child is a seZ/-creative being, and that education, therefore, should encourage self-activity. I believe this is a fundamental principle in physical education, and in all education. The only drawback to it is our lack of wisdom and skill in applying the principle. All physical education of normal children and youth, it seems to me, should be based upon activities that are recreative. By recreative activities, however, I do not mean simply activities that rest the mind and' body and recuperate the powers depleted by tedium or fatigue. I mean

* Read at the annual convention of the State Teachers Association of Pennsylvania, Harrisburg, Pa.

Digitized by v^ooQle
•448

even more, those activities that are re-creative, biologically, as well as recreative, physiologically. Play, during the early years of immaturity, is biologically re-creative; it furthers the biological growth or changes of the body and is essential to normal development. Recreation also may be biologically re-creative, that is, identical with play; or it may be (in the case of adults, anyway) simply a means of restoring physical well-being after one has become tired of study or work. In treating the subject assigned me, “Physical Education from the Recreative Viewpoint,” therefore, I shall interpret the “recreative viewpoint” to be the biological rather than the physiological one, that is, the viewpoint of play, games, sports, and athletics for truly educational purposes, and not simply for the purpose of resting the mind and body and restoring physical equilibrium.

This idea of basing physical education on activities that are recreative is by no means modern. Rather, it is the most ancient, of all methods of physical education in its origin and the longest in exister.ee. It is really the conservative method in physical education and the burden of proof is on those who advocate the newer method of physical education by prescribed and formal exercises. Of the five great systems of physical education of the world, namely, the Greek, the Mediaeval, the British, the German, and the Swedish, the first three were based almost Wholly, if not wholly, upon play, the fourth very largely, especially in the earlier years, while only the fifth departed radically from the older ideals. It seems desirable to recall very briefly the character of the activities of these various systems of physical education, familiar as they are to you all. Among the Greeks, they were running, jumping, throwing, wrestling, boxing, dancing, and a great deal of free play and many dances. The palestra, attended by boys to sixteen years of age, were strikingly like our best modern playgrounds, and the gymnasia, attended by the maturer youth, were very like our recreation parks. It is of interest also to add that physical education activities among the Greeks culminated in great festivals, which differed from our intercollegiate athletic meets* far less in the character of the physical contests than in the beauty and solemnity with which they were carried out.

The activities of the Mediaeval system of physical education, which engaged the knights of England, France, Italy, Scandinavia and Germany, were essentially war games, and this also culminated in grand festivals of the tournaments and the joust, contemporaneously with which, if not out of which, arose what has been called the finest flower of civilization, namely, chivalry—I trust I do not belittle the name of chivalry when I suggest that this flower survives today to some extent in what we call good sportsmanship. He who takes hold of life at the right end—is essentially “a good sport."

The British system, like its two predecessors, was based on old-time games and contests. To this system we are indebted for our highest conception of civilized and socialized sport, namely,# modern team games.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
449

Guts-Muths, predecessor of Jahn, utilized almost wholly plays (even constructive plays), games and contests. Jahn, the father of the German system, who conceived physical education as a means of the regeneration of the Fatherland, sought the fields and the woods with his pupils to participate in plays, games, and competitive gymnastic feasts or “stunts.” Spiess, who followed Jahn, departed scmewhat from the more traditional plays and games used by Jahn, devising gymnastic apparatus and exercises; but this he did apparently in the hope of supplying artificially some of the natural advantages of the open life.

Ling departed still more from the plays and games of former systems. He developed his formal exercises during a period of rapidly increasing interest in anatomy, physiology, dentistry and surgery. The years of Ling's life were notable for development in all these fields. Naturally he got the anatomical twist. Psychology with its biological background and its physiological relationships was unknown. The more “scientific” method of Ling was based upon a half-truth, so far as education was concerned, and, as is usually the case with pedagogical half-truths, it led teachers astray from the greater truth embodied in the more instinctive method of former times. Ling lost in the form the still more important thing, namely, the spirit. And since it is “the spirit that giveth life,” he lost the better part of that for which he sought.

Thus physical education from the recreative view-point was conspicuously rejected by the most scientific physical educators of the later days. But happily the stone that was accepted by the builders of Greek physical education, by Chivalry, by the British, by Guts-Muths, and Jahn, but rejected so largely by later physical educators, is again becoming the head of the corner.

What is the basis of* this new-old view of physical education, this new-old claim for the precedence of activities that are recreative in physical education? It is this:	That-the great office

of physical education is not the physiological only, but the physiological, and the sociological, in increasing degree in the order named. If one says:	“Let	the physical educator 'stick to his last'

and the mental and spiritual benefits will follow,” he stands in his own light, on the physical side even, and neglects great mental and spiritual opportunities whose doors open not with equal readiness to other teachers. He stands in his own light on the physical side because a later science than that of Ling's day has shown that bodily functions are affected vastly more by emotion plus movement than by movement alone. Physical education can no longer be based scientifically upon anatomy or physiology chiefly, but on human nature, if we are to make it enjoyable, truly educational, and most effective. The development of animal life has been along effective lines; development has been as per emotional experiences; bodies have always been adapted to instinctive ends, and have always worked best in accord with the effective nature and not apart frem it or contrary to it. The very bodily growth of the child and youth is enmeshed with the biological bases of the

Digitized by

Google
450

instincts and the emotions. Nature has provided in the structure of the body itself, a motive for the activities best suited to its needs. Why should we try to substitute something different, even antagonistic, to that which nature has provided for the very purpose? Man has never yet improved upon nature, except only when working in harmony with nature. Even physiology now tells what psychology told us before, namely, that movement is as “much mind as body”; that even strength has an emotioned basis quite out of proportion to the muscular basis. Men vary in motor ability according to mind and feeling, even more than according to weight of muscles. Under emotional stress, unbelievable activity, strength and skill may be displayed, a fact, long known to laymen, now placed under observation in the laboratory by the experimental physiologist. Efficiency in the guise of joyousness is knocking at the door of physical education (and of all education and all work of the world, I might add) and there are few physical educators who will not soon hear and open to it. I must believe that formal physical exercises as physical education, except for those who might need them as one needs a dentist or a surgeon, are doomed.

Unfortunately, many who have already opened the door to joyousness in physical education, fall into the error of originating or adapting games on the basis of muscle groups which they wish to' have involved. But as we have already suggested, movements do not so surely affect circulation, digestion, assimilation, general physiological condition, or health, as do the mental attitude and the emotions accompanying the movements. Not even games may be selected wisely on the anatomical or physiological basis, but only on the emotional or self-suggesting basis. Selection on such a basis alone can project into out-of-school life the continued general use of the activities of the physical education taught in the schools. Neglect of this basis was the cause, I believe, of only an insignificant percentage of the free playtime of children in a certain city being given up to games taught in the schools. As Dr. Wood has well said, “Physical education, if it is good for anything, will function out of school.” There is small chance of its functioning out of school unless it is based upon a truly scientific which is, at the same time, the natural basis of selection. Certainly the old physical education functioned out of school with an impetus that carried even to this day.

But there are greater considerations than any yet mentioned for the basing of physical education upon activities that are recreative. The leader in such activities stands in the direct line of opportunity in the moral and social development of children and youth. We are realizing more and more clearly that moral action follows positive rather than negative suggestions; men act upon desire rather than upon denial. Finding a higher desire for an inferior or evil one is psychologically and, I doubt not, scripturally “overcoming evil with good.” The leaders of men in all ages have been those who have led the way and not those who have repressed. They have been the men who have interpreted the folk-soul and expressed it in individual and social action. A leader in games, a

Digitized by CjOOQle
451

foot-ball or athletic coach, is really, in his smaller way., interpreting the intense desires of his boys, the folk-soul, as it is revealed to them. A coach may hold a boy's very conscience in abeyance, as was confessed at a conference last winter by a world's champion, so powerful is the sense of this leadership among boys. Herein lies the grave danger in athletic leadership under any administration that selects a coach on a basis of mental, moral and professional qualifications lower than that recognized in the selection of any teacher.

A book might be written on the moral and social significance of physical education from the recreative view-point. This short paper can scarcely do more than to suggest a few of the points of interest.

If “all the world's a stage," then, says some one, “most of us need more rehearsals." Recreative activities in physical education serve as such rehearsals. There is no opportunity elsewhere in education to compare with that of the physical educator in the matter of “rehearsing" pupils for the smaller or greater emotional and moral crises of life. It is not in book or laboratory instruction or even formal drills that are to be found opportunity for the exercise and direction, for the “rehearsal" if you will, of the deep-seated human passions that in the last analysis control human conduct—love, hate, desire, fear, anger, resentment, disgust, grief, depression, remorse, elation; or for the instinctive expression of rivalry, risk, sense of justice, self-assertion, co-operation, sacrifice, loyalty. Our education is perhaps weakest in this matter of training the emotions. Recreative activities, since they hark back to old foundations, to old roots of both body and soul, and involve the instinctive and emotional elements I have mentioned, offer almost our only field in school instruction, where with reference to the deep emotional elements of character, we can give our pupils opportunity to become “doers of the word and not hearers only." With what deep and conflicting emotions does a football player, for example, see an opponent in “the great game" bearing the ball for repeated gains towards the goal, threatening decisive and final defeat? A college player was once making such gains; finally upon being tackled and thrown with arms and ball beneath him, his face unprotected, the opposing fullback rushing down the field towards him, plunged and thrust his knee squarely upon the fallen player's face, crushing his nose. The offending player, of course, was promptly put out of the game, the injured player remaining and actually making the play that won the game. As he entered the dressing room after the game, the ejected player approached him, the tears fairly streaming down his face, grown man that he was, and in pitiful mental suffering begged for forgiveness. He had met one emotional moral crisis and been defeated; he met another and was victorious. Can one doubt that this experience was a genuine rehearsal for life? No classroom or laboratory experience, formal gymnastics or military drill, stirs a big boy's soul thus to its depths.

Can men ever learn to fight in good temper and without extravagance? Not without rehearsals. When Mr. Britling's friend said, ‘^Listen, Britling," and read the Hymn of Hate, he asked.

Digitized by C.ooQle
452

“Well, what do you think of it?” “It's incomprehensible,” said Mr. Britling, “I want to feel his bumps.” The team games of the old British system of physical education, I believe, have helped to teach men to “fight in good temper and without extravagance.” “When hate shall have become creative.” . . . Why, that is just what we have been trying to do with pugnacity, anger, hate in socialized physical education, to make them motives for socialized action.

Or let us take another emotion, that of fear. Some folks don't know how to be afraid. Not that they never get scared. One may be cowardly or very brave and not know always how to be afraid aright. One may not think at first that there is any fun in fear, that it has to do with recreative activities. Why, fear is the secret of the fascination of adventure. Watch little children and it will not be long before you notice them playing with their fears. Who has not loved ghost stories? You have all enjoyed the cartoons of Briggs which bear the general title of “The Days of Real Sport.” You will perhaps recall one which pictured a “haunted house” and boys running from it, after they had ventured near, in perfect ecstacy of terror. The fun in fear is one reason why it is more fun to be chased than to chase. The traditional “it” in a child's game is the one who has the undesirable part of-chaser. A favorite story which has been used now many times in one way or another may be ventured upon here as an illustration of the fascination of fear and how it tempts boys to wrong acts when legitimate ways of enjoying it are not provided.

A boy was arrested and brought to our juvenile court for stealing apples. He was warned and allowed to go. Not long after he was in court again for stealing apples. He was placed under a probation officer and sent home. Not long after he was again arrested and brought to court on the old charge of stealing apples. In despair the probation officer took the boy aside and said, “Now, Tim, tell me honestly, why do you steal those apples?” The boy hung his head a moment and a new thought seemed to come to him. He raised his head, looked up at the probation officer, and said:	“Why, I don't care much about eating 'em, but I do like

to have old ------chase me.”

Really, I have only begun my paper—knowing all the time how brief it must be. I must omit also I need to say to round it out to a proper climax and conclusion, begging your generous indulgence for a task uncompleted and briefly summarize:

1.	Physical education should be based on the idea that a child or youth is a self-creating being and utilize the self-suggesting or “recreative” activities.

2.	This is the conservative idea in physical education, anyway, or better, the evolutionary idea—for progress is in spirals, not leaps.

3.	The great office of physical education is social not physical; the emphasis is on “education” not on “physical.”

4.	Joyousness lies in its path to greatest efficiency, both

physically and socially.	,

Digitized by

Google
453

5.	It is thus that physical education can best function in out-of-school life.

6.	Physical education is almost the only field in education for rehearsing the instincts, for educating the emotions—i. e., the heart, “out of which are the issues of life”—or death.

7.	It is here that education may best utilize human nature, make hate, anger, desire, and the rest, apply in creative power, and turn human passions to social good.

ENLIGHTENMENT NEEDED

WILLIAM A. STECHER, Philadelphia.

In the Journal of the American Medical Association of January 12th, we find the following:

UNIVERSAL MILITARY TRAINING VS. PHYSICAL TRAINING.

From the purely sanitary point of view, the physical development of the youth of this country is a matter of extreme importance. For that reason, physical training naturally has many strong advocates. Unfortunately, physical training has not been universally required, and has not produced anything like the remarkable physical development seen in the various military training camps since the opening of the world war. Heretofore it has lacked that “touch of elbow” which comes only from military training. It lacked that indescribable something — esprit, courage, discipline, patriotism, respect for the obligations of citizenship — which is essential in any state, and particularly in a democracy. Again, the very requirement that all young men alike at a certain time shall don the uniform of the United States will do more to engender patriotic sentiments and to call their attention to their duties to the nation than can result from any other method.

Such training can readily be made to emphasize the things for which a democracy stands, and is one of the best means of amalgamating the various nationalities that make up the citizenship of this country. Incidentally since universal military training is for the young men, some parallel training might also be provided for the young women.

It is unfortunate that the Journal places physical training in opposition to military training. Physical training is a part of military training. It is that part of military training that is given to growing boys and girls.

The Journal says:	“Unfortunately,	physical training has not

been universally required, and has not produced anything like the remarkable physical development seen in the various military training camps since the opening of the world war.”

Both of these statements are true. But why are they true? Why isn’t physical training “required” universally? One of the main reasons is that the public at large, school teachers, yes, even physicians, haven’t begun to realize its fundamental importance in education in general. Secondly, physical training is compulsory in only two states, i. e., New York and New Jersey. In addition to this, it is compulsory in a number of cities. So far as the whole

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
454

country is concerned, the statement may be made that there is no physical training that is worth mentioning.

Now about the second statement as to the results. What could one expect under the circumstances just spoken of? Yes, what can one expect even in those cities that have 10 to 12 minutes daily of physical exercises, mostly between school desks in schoolrooms? Would there have been “visible results” if our soldiers had only 10 to 12 minutes of body training in a schoolroom five days a week? Let us not fall into the error of speaking slightingly of physical training because of the results produced in the past. So far, real physical training has never had a chance to show what it can do. In fact those persons that have taken the time to make real investigations are surprised and delighted at the results obtained in some places. What we need most at the present time is to have influential periodicals like the Journal conduct a campaign of education that will influence state legislatures to prescribe an hour a day of physical training and health instruction for all pupils in public and private schools. For the pupils in high schools there should be an additional period of compulsory training of four weeks oach summer of this school life in state camps. There, by the time boys and girls had reached the age of 19 or 20 years they would be physically fit. After this the nation could step forward and in a short time give to these young men and women the technical military training thought necessary. This would be a constructive program. It would be certain to bring results because it would give to growing boys and girls the kind of exercise best suited to their ages. It takes time, thought and money to produce a healthy person. If the growing organism does not get its proper stimulation and exercise at the time of its most rapid growth, the result never will be what it should have been. If the results in our present camps are great, the results so far as physical, mental and social development are concerned would have been greater among these same men had a like amount of time and money and the same degree of intelligent direction been given to these youths while they were developing.

To substitute military for physical training would be more than an error, it would be a disaster. It would result exactly as did the French experiment after the war of 1870-71 when France organized battalions of schoolboys in the hope of increasing its military efficiency. We need what France now has, and what the other European states have, namely physical and military training, each at its proper time and in its right proportion.

In order to get this we need the help of all constructive forces. In some places good beginnings have been made upon which a sound development can take place. Let us not make the mistake of putting in its place something that after years of experimentation with government support was discontinued because it was a failure. What we need is cooperation, helpful constructive suggestion. We wonder if a progressive press and the wide-awake men and women of today will allow the present time to pass without having secured legislative action looking toward state controlled physical education of the broadest type.

Digitized by L^ooQle
455

MONTHLY HEALTH LETTER OF LIFE EXTENSION INSTITUTE Inc.

Shell Shock and Life Shock.

Shell shock is a term that is becoming rapidly familiar even to the public, and is popularly supposed to be due to the profound impression on the nervous system occasioned by high explosives — a combination of physical and mental shock.

Major Salmon, of the Medical Officers’ Reserve Corps, United States Army, and a member of the Hygiene Reference Board of the Institute, has collected some interesting information on this subject which forms the basis of his lectures in the Medical Officers’ training camps. He and others have called attention to the fact that the term shell shock is used too loosely. As a matter of fact, many of the nervous manifestations usually included under this term (often, it is true, concentrating in some profound mental or nervous failure at the time of exposure to shell fire) are simply cumulative effects of general war strain. Some interesting lessons bearing upon nervous maladies to which so many are subject in civil life, can be drawn from these experiences.

It is also important that a condition in which so many families throughout our country are likely to become concerned, should be understood by the public and that those who return from the battle front miserably suffering from these conditions, should receive the right kind of treatment from their friends and families. Many profound nervous disorders, neurasthenia, hysteria, and the like are, of course, more readily developed in people with poor nervous and mental endowment at birth. Yet many people with average family histories are more or less unstable in their nervous organization. If the strain is sufficient, they lose their poise and drift into pitiable conditions of chronic ill-health and life failure. Students of nervous diseases have called attention to the fact that in civil life these serious nervous disorders, characterized by such conditions as sudden deafness, loss of speech, periodic vomiting, insomnia, loss of memory, sleep walking, paralysis not due to injury or hemorrhage of the brain, as well as that vague collection of fears, anxieties, and will-failure termed neurasthenia, are due to the effort of the individual to escape from some intolerable situation. Life’s struggle presents itself to them as a hopeless battle and they seek refuge in their nervous maladies. They escape from that grip with life which every organism and every race must take if it is to survive. These sufferers are, of course, not conscious of this underlying motive.

Some authorities hold that the nervous maladies, of war so-called “war-neuroses,” should be considered as a special group of diseases, occurring in the main among people who would on the average successfully withstand the strains of civil life. Sufferers from shell shock are not necessarily those who show hereditary or personal history of nervous insufficiency. They are merely individuals of sensitive types, whose normal resistance has been overcome by the extraordinary and unremitting impact of the peculiar

Digitized by kjOOQle
456

shocks and strains and stresses of modern war, unprecedented for for its devilish ingenuity in torture.

A case is cited of a non-commissioned British officer who had seen eleven months of active service, during which period he was wounded twice, gassed twice, buried under a house, and treated five times in the field ambulances for minor injuries. While on ordinary leave in England, apparently in good health, he became unconscious while waiting for a train and was ill with severe war neuroses, lasting several months. This man had shown rare courage and endurance but had passed his limit.

These war neuroses are rare among the wounded. The wounded state displaces shell shock and excludes the accumulated mental strains and stresses that have gone before.

Another interesting fact is the frequency of war neuroses of the lesser magnitude among officers and the rarity among them of more serious nervous manifestations of the hysterical type.

The ratio of officers to men, at the front, is 1 to 30, among the wounded 1 to 24, but among those admitted to hospitals for was neuroses the ratio is 1 to 6.

No doubt there are cases of actual brain or nerve injury due to concussion of air accompanying shell explosions, but these mechanical causes are regarded as less frequently responsible for war neuroses than the mental effects of general war strain. Such cases need most delicate handling. Neither harshness nor unjust suspicion of malingering should be permitted by the medical officer; on the other hand, the patient should not be looked upon as a hopeless nervous wreck incapable of responding to appeals to his latent manhood and control.

Some authorities have claimed that about 70 per cent of the cases of “war nerves” are among average types. It seems entirely reasonable that there must be a very considerable proportion of people fully able to bear up under ordinary forms of life struggle, yet inadequate to bear these tests of war. The military authorities are making special efforts to exclude from the army those who show positive signs of nervous weakness. With regard to such cases, all agree that immediate treatment and a heroic effort to hold the soldier in the line and restore his confidence and bring him to a firmer grip on the situation is the best treatment. A special study of these cases will be made by men trained to this work and their efforts will be directed largely to preventing the sufferer from gradually sinking into a state of permanent retreat from life struggle. Warning is given that sufferers from these nervous war maladies, who are too much coddled, who drift to their homes, who become more or less fixed in their delusions, obsessions, fears, and other disabilities, offer the least hope of cure.

We find that these principles hold good in civil practice when dealing with nervous types. These conditions which we meet so commonly among civilized people might well be termed “life shock.” As in shell shock, the immediate shock is not wholly responsible for the result. There has been accumulating a series of minor shocks which have gradually broken down the will-power

Digitized by

Google
457

of the individual and driven him into a retreat from a stand-up fight with his environment. We find, therefore, that the essence of prevention and of cure in nervous maladies, whether in the war zone or at home, is to face the enemy and keep hitting the line. Firm tactful treatment by one familiar with the mechanism of such maladies is all important.

The basis of most nervous maladies, which do not have their origin in actual tissue changes or tissue injuries, as in the case of infections, is not fear, in exactly the popular sense of the word, but as already expressed, rather a retreat from difficulty under such conditions that the individual is not conscious of the fact that he is guilty of retreat. It seems important to bring this fact more forcibly before the people, the fact that, after a thorough physical examination has revealed no organic or physical cause for nervous disease, there is an obligation on the part of the individual to measure up to life struggle and not to take the avenue of retreat. If it were more clearly understood that a bold front to the enemy will cause him to retreat, there would be less nervous failure.

It is an interesting and characteristic fact, that in the treatment of these cases of so-called shell shock, stress is laid upon productive occupation. These sufferers are given something useful to do and in adapting themselves to real work, they regain their hold on life. There are very few cases where a prolonged rest cure is required. This raises the old question as to' whether a healthy man can really be over-worked. Of course, there can only be one sensible answer to such a question. Undoubtedly overwork can break down the mind and nervous system, but it is astonishing how much work a well-cared for body and mind can carry through. It is poor mental government and a faulty attitude toward life, rather than overwork, that bring about mental and nervous breakdown. Often it is not the work itself so much as the lack of balance to the work and proper recreational habits and an interest in doing something that is worth while. Often it is an absorption of anxieties, fears and obsessions instead of casting them out into the open, where in the full light of day they are found to be ridiculously insignificant and unimportant.

The sufferer from shell shock has, of course, been facing real danger, a tremendous, appalling menace to his life and a possibility of intense suffering. If, under proper treatment, such men can be fully restored to normal poise and are again able to meet these frightful perils, the sufferer in civil life may well take heart and face the annoyances, strains and perils of ordinary existence, which dwindle into insignificance when compared to those of the battle front.

“Pack up your troubles in your old kit-bag and smile, smile, smile”—these are brave words and they offer the finest kind of resistance to many nervous maladies and to mental ill-health.

But there are many things that cannot be smiled away, and one can lose a lot of valuable time smiling when very definite action is needed. You cannot smile a root abscess out of your jaw; you

Digitized by Google
458

cannot smile away weak feet or stoop shoulders or pus infected tonsils or defective eyesight. It is fine to smile at your meals, for it aids digestion, but that does not balance your diet. A smile will not take the place of lime or fruit acids or green vegetables in your diet. You may smile as you put poison into your body but the smile is not an antidote. Courage alone cannot do everything; it must be well directed.

Have your body and your life surveyed for spots of trouble; make any definite corrections indicated and then smile the smile that does not have to come off.

o	ii	i	—	—....... o

GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

O' - I " '■	"	  ■	i	■	■	o

A CLEAN SWIMMING POOL AND A LARGE BALL FIELD FOR EVERY BOY AND GIRL.

W. T. FRANKLIN, Massachusetts Inst, of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.

Let this be the school slogan after the war. In England it is sure to be, and in America the need is no less; but we are farther from the lessons of the war. For young children, the sand pile and mud pies and ring-around-a-rosey in yard or garden where sunshine is and the air; but for the older boys and girls the bail field and the swimming pool. Some degree of persistent participation in the most intensely active and absorbing kinds of play, that makes for strength; yes, but, what is more important by far, it makes for the will to use strength to the limit. “Whatever you have to do, do it with all your might — if you can.”*

If the pool problem is being considered in your city I will be glad to send you information concerning the Bethlehem Plan Swimming Pool; and you will, I am sure, be interested in the following which is extracted from a letter I wrote last July to Mr. Robert R. Ellis of Memphis, Tennessee.

Conditions Under Which the Bethlehem Plan is Especially Applicable in the Construction of a Swimming Pool.

1.	Where water costs, directly or indirectly, 2 or 3 cents per thousand gallons, or more; where the patronage of the pool is heavy and demands frequent change of water; and especially where it is desired to keep a pool extremely clean.

2.	Where a pool is used during the winter months the heating of the water is a large item of expense, and this expense is nearly eliminated by the Bethlehem Plan.

♦See Bill’s School and Mine, pages 23-34. Second edition revised and enlarged. Franklin, MacNutt and Charles, South Bethlehem, Pa. Price $1.00 post paid.

Digitized by Google
459

Requirements of the Bethlehem Plan.

1.	The pool must be rectangular in shape.

2.	The pool must be provided with large filter beds. Area of filter beds should be from one quarter to one half of pool area for semi-private pools with moderate patronage, or fully equal to pool area for heavily patronized public pools.

Higher First Cost of Bethlehem Plan Pool.

A Bethlehem Plan pool costs about 10 per cent more than an ordinary pool. This low estimate of extra cost of the Bethlehem Plan pool depends on three things, namely, (a) The usual small filter with its pump, motor and piping is eliminated, (b) The additional concrete construction is all hidden from view, it may be plain in finish, and it merges with platforms and building walls so as to afford double use of portions of it, and (c) No additional ground space is required because the large filter beds occupy space not otherwise used, under platforms and dressing rooms.

Low Operating Cost of Bethlehem Plan.

Experience at Lehigh University with a well built pool of old design shows that the pool is very expensive in operation. City water costs seven and one-half cents per thousand gallons, and to bring the city water up to 75 degrees F. during the winter months costs about 8 cents per thousand gallons. Consequently the pool has been emptied, scrubbed and refilled not oftener than once in two weeks, which means 100,000 gallons to refill the pool and no less than 50,000 gallons gutter waste every two weeks. Of course a chemical disinfectant is used regularly. But, even so, the cost of operation is much greater than it would be on the Bethlehem Plan with the pool emptied, scrubbed and refilled every night, with purified water circulating through the pool at a very greatly increased rate during the day, and with chemical disinfectant used if the limit of cleanliness is desired.

The city water comes originally from the dreadfully polluted Lehigh River, and it is lifted 400 feet, purified in a sand filter plant and distributed through an expensive system of street mains. Of course sand filtration converts the water into good drinkable water; but the pool water is already warm, after one day's use it is a thousand times less filthy, quantitatively, than Lehigh River water, and it can be passed through a standard sand filter by lifting it four feet. Furthermore, the operation of emptying, scrubbing and refilling of the pool is automatic in the Bethlehem Plan, and the power now used to drive the pump for the 20-foot lift which is required for the small continuous pressure filter which is used in connection with the Lehigh University pool would be nearly sufficient for the much more rapid pumping involved in the Bethlehem Plan. The Bethlehem Plan is merely a straightforward engineering solution of the water problem of the swimming pool.

Landscape Gardening and the Artificial Swimming Pool.

I do not believe that any landscape* ideal should take prece-

*The City Club in Memphis, Tenn., is considering the building of public pools in the city parks for summer use and the Club Committee favors a spoonshaped pool.

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
460

dence over a proper consideration of the hygienic and economic phases of the swimming pool problem. Pools must be clean or our Boards of Health will sooner or later close them, and they must be reasonably cheap in operation or we cannot afford them. the engineering aspects of the problem be considered first of all.

The problem is, however, by no means hopeless from the aesthetic side. Rectangular structures have long been used in parks and gardens, and our landscape architects must re-adopt a little of what was carried to excess in the time of Louis XIV as illustrated by the grotesque artificiality of 17th and 18th century gardens. Slowly emerging from arboreal barbarism our forefathers came to regard a building as the most fascinating thing on earth, whereas, we, well nigh overwhelmed with urbanities (if I may use the word in its strict etymological sense, meaning city-things) are inclined to worship trees. We need both, but let us be content or let trees be trees and grass be grass and when we build a garden house for a more complicated mechanical purpose than making love let us have a building and not a bower. Likewise when we build a swimming pool let us have a hydraulic installation first of all, not merely a pond.

I do of course think that a pond is pretty, but I do not think that it is feasible to make a pond-like swimming pool that can be kept decently clean at a reasonable cost. A pond-like swimming pool would most properly be set among trees and shrubs with the dressing rooms hidden from view as much as possible; but a rectangular swimming pool might properly be like a Roman bath, honestly proclaiming itself a man-made structure with widely flung platforms and pergolas.

THE PLAYGROUND BALL.

ELIZABETH O’NEILL, Philadelphia.

What’s in a name? “That which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet”. That may be true of the rose, but what about that which we call a ball? Could any other name bring such joy to the small boy or such keen excitement to the man?

“The ball is the key of knowledge because it opens the most gates”. As much depends upon how we open these gates of knowledge to the growing boy and girl of the elementary school age, we, in Philadelphia, have been doing some thinking, brought about mainly through the present economic conditions which all are compelled to face, and which opens the way toward greater efficiency in our work and in service to mankind.

We have long since felt the need for greater simplicity in the quantity and variety of play material used on the playground, especially in the number and variety of balls used during each school day — the basketball, volleyball, indoor baseball, and in some yards a soccer ball — these prefixed names have been acquired from the special form of game popular in the community or at seasonable times. Baseball, Football, Volleyball, Dodgeball, Cap-tainball — so general have these names become, we have frequently received requisitions for so and so many “Captainballs”.

Digitized by v^ooQle
461

Joseph Lee says, "The tradition of most of the great games has been a long one.” Baseball, as we know, has been a gradual evolution out of rounders, and ball in one form or another goes back to the days of Nausicad at least. Football traces its ancestry from English and German "camp ball” which means "Kampfen” or fight ball, and traces its lineage back to Roman times, down to its American development.

Aside from the fact that the general interest in games is hindered by having such a variety of balls during the early school years, we also find that unnecessary vigilance in discipline is required on the part of the teacher in trying to prevent the boy in the very thralls of the "Big Injin” age from following one of nature’s instinctive laws when she gives him a basketball and forbids him to kick it. Is it quite fair to expect so much self control in the very first stage of the game? For these reasons the Department of Physical Training of the Philadelphia Board of Public Education have decided to use a smaller size ball, the outer-seam soccer-Association Football for all games formerly requiring the use of the basketball and football. It will be more durable, and being used for all purposes we think it will help tremendously to lessen the problem of discipline occasioned by kicking the wrong ball. We feel the children themselves will get a better idea of proper values, through the contrast between the volleyball and soccer so strongly typifying the strong and the weak.

We shall requisition for the Philadelphia Schools and Playgrounds three balls, the volleyball, baseball (indoor) and the outer-seam soccer, which we shall call the playground ball, and shall await with interest the results to be obtained.

The following is an extract from a letter from a manufacturer in reply to our request for his opinion of the proposed change:

"Replying to your letter would say the change that you contemplate making of using outseam soccer balls instead of a basketball, in our judgment is a wise one — it will not only simplify your problem of ordering goods, but it will also be halpful in enabling you to use one type of ball for the different sports such as Dodgeball, Cap-tainball, etc.

"There is also another problem that you have not thought of, and that is, the question of price. If you adopt an outseam soccer ball for general use you will be able to save some money, as there is not as much material used in the manufacture of this type of ball as there is in a basketball, consequently you would be able to save the difference between the cost of the soccer ball and the basketball.”

The annual meeting of the National Education Association will be held in Pittsburg, Pa., next summer. This was decided at a meeting of the executive committee held at Washington,

D.	C. on October twenty-second.

Digitized by LjOOQle
462

WOODEN RING DRILL

J. CERMAK, Medill H. S. Chicago.

This drill is arranged for thirty-two pupils — twelve to fourteen years — boys or girls, but may be executed also by sixteen boys and sixteen girls. With a larger number of pupils it maybe arranged for several groups — thirty-two participants in each.

Each pupil carries the ring in the right hand.

The pupils enter in two columns of twos from opposite directions (sixteen in each column). When they meet, the inner files counter march left and right and when coming to the end of the file, march to the right and left until they stand at a right angle to the other files. On a given command all face inward (toward their common center) and when they halt, each pupil grasps his heighbor’s ring with the left hand.

There must be room enough between the participants to allow free movements of the arms.

Formation of the ranks:

Fig. 1

(With a mixed class arrange the pupils so that in this original formation all the boys are in the rank of 16 and all the girls are at the sides in ranks of 8 or vice versa.)

As the pupils change their places and exercise in different formations, each group will be designated according to its formation at the time it is executing certain exercises, i. e., ) rank of sixteen (whether it is the participants’ original position or not) b) ranks of eight (whether it is their original position or not) c) circles, and d) star.

Music:	“College	boys”	March—two step by J. K. Johnson.

After the pupils halt in their respective places, (see the formation above) the music plays the sixteen counts of the introduction.

PART I.

1.	a) All: bend arms to thrust 1! Thrust forward 2!

Reverse 3!—4! Repeat 5—8!

b) Bend arms to thrust upward 1! Thrust upward 2!

Reverse 3! 4! Repeat 5—8!....................  16	counts.

Note: In bending arms to thrust forward the forearm is in a hor-

Digitized by LjOOQle
463

izontal position, the ring held vertical; — in bending the arms to thrust upward, the forearm is in a vertical position, the ring held horizontal, height of shoulder.)

Rank of Sixteen:

2.	a) Bend arms to thrust forward 1—2! Bend trunk forward and thrust downward 3—4! Reverse 5—8! b) Bend arms to thrust upward 1—2! Thrust upward and bend trunk backward 3—4! Reverse

5—8!..................................................16	counts

Ranks of Eight:

2.	a) March forward three steps, closing on four 1—4!

Repeat exercise 1. a) (thrusting forward)...... 5—8!

b) March backward three steps closing on four. 1—4! and repeat exercise 1. b) (thrusting upward)

5—8L..........................................16	counts

3.	All repeat exercise 1. a) and b)..............16	counts

4.	Rank of sixteen repeat exercise 2 of ranks of eight

a) and b) 16 counts. — Ranks of eight repeat exercise 2 a) and b) of rank of sixteen (bending trunk	forward and backward).........16	counts

RankJof Sixteen:

5.	a) Bend arms to thrust 1—2! Thrust forward and

bend the knees (half way) 3—4 Reverse 5—8! b) Bend arms to thrust upward 1—2! Thrust upward and rise on toes 3—4! Reverse 5—8!...........16	counts

Ranks of Eight:

5.	March forward four steps; right and left ends by marching forward (four steps) form circles.

Mark time from 9 to 16; during those eight counts take the proper distance — arms at sides obliquely downward and grasp the rings.........................16	counts

Rank of Sixteen:

6.	Mark time four counts, the left eights executing

a quarter turn to the left and the right eights a quarter turn to the right. From 5 to 12 march right and left to the places vacated by the ranks of eight. From 13 to 16 mark time and face inward. During the last four counts move the arms sideward obliquely downward in front and with arms crossed right above the left, grasp the neighbor’s ring......................................16	counts

Circles:

6.	Stride forward left and raise arms upward 1—2!

Bend trunk forward and swing arms downward and back-upward 3—4! Reverse 5—8! Repeat but stride forward right 9—16!

7.	Stride backward left and raise arms forward 1—2!

Bend trunk backward and raise arms upward and to a position sideward 3—4! Reverse 5—8!

Repeat but stride backward right 9—16!

Note: The following is the formation during exercises 6 and^7^

Digitized by ^.ooQle
464

* X"** V	X

J	v i	y

yx	^	x	h

»■

Pig. 2

Ranks of Eight:

7.	Lunge backward left and raise arms forward 1—2!

Change position of knees and raise arms upward 3—4! Reverse 5—8! Repeat but lunge right 9-16!

8.	Lunge	forward	left	and raise arms upward 1—2!

Change the position of knees and lower arms to position forward 3—4! Reverse 5—8! Repeat but lunge right 9—16!

Circles:

8.	Right	and left ends march backward, four steps,

thus again forming ranks of eight. Four steps forward 5—8! (ranks come close together). Ranks of eight quarter wheel backward (eight steps) thus forming a rank of sixteen in the place vacated by the original rank of sixteen.

After the pupils finish exercise Eight, the original rank of sixteen now being in the places of the ranks of eight — and the original ranks of eight now forming a rank of sixteen, the music plays , the four counts of the interlude:

9.	All: raise arms forward 1! Raise arms upward and bend the knees half way 2! Reverse 3! 4!

Now repeat exercises 1. to 8. which will bring the participants to their original places. The music then plays the sixteen counts introduction, after which part II is performed..

PART II.

AH in original formation:

1. a) Bend arms to thrust forward 1! Thrust forward 2!

Raise upward 3! Bend arms to thrust upward 4!

Thrust upward 5! Lower arms to position forward 6! Bend to thrust forward 7! Lower the arms 8!

b) Raise arms forward 1! Bend to thrust forward 2!

Thrust forward 3! Raise upward 4! Bend to thrust upward 5! Thrust upward 6! Lower to position forward 7! Lower 8!...............  16	counts

Digitized by kjOOQle
465

Rank of Sixteen:

2. a) March forward four steps and mark time four

steps........................................ 8	counts

b) Repeat Exercise 1. a) Part II.................   8	counts

3.	aj Bend arms to thrust forward 1—2! Bend trunk forward and thrust downward 8—4! Reverse 5—6! 7—8!

b) Bend arms to thrust upward 1—2! Thrust upward and bend thunk backward 3—4! Reverse

5—6! 7—8!

a) and b)..........!.....................    16	counts

Ranks of Eight:

2.	a) Mark time four steps, then march forward four

steps..........................................8	counts

b) Repeat Exercise 1. b) Part II... ..........   .8	counts

3.	a) Bend arms to thrust upward 1—2! Bend back-

ward and thrust upward 3—4! Reverse 5—6!

7—8!

b) Bend arms to thrust forward 1—2! Bend forward and thrust downward 3—4! Reverse 5—6! 7—8!

Note: When ranks of eight march forward four steps, four members of the rank march in the rear of the rank of sixteen and the other four in front, so that Exercise 3. and 4. are executed in the following formation:

Fig. 3

Rank of Sixteen:

4.	a) Mark time four steps and then march backward

four steps.......................................8	counts

b) Repeat exercise 1. a).............................8	counts

5.	Bend arms to thrust forward and bend knees 1—2!

Thrust forward and straighten knees 3—4!

Raise arms upward and rise on toes 5—6!

Bend arms to thrust upward and lower heels 7—8! Thrust upward and rise on toes 9—10!

Lower arms to position forward and lower heels 11—12! Bend arms to thrust forward and bend knees 13—14! Lower arms and straighten knees 15—16!

Digitized by

Google
•6.

466

Mark time four steps. The left eight face to the left, the right eight face to the right. March left and right to the places vacated by the ranks of eight (counts 5 to 12) (fig. 5). From count

■n«	im

I

-H-H

1

Fig. 4

13 to 16 mark time. Every 1st, 3rd, 5th and 7th pupil remains facing in the line of march and every 2nd, 4th, 6th, and 8th pupil on the last 4 counts executes a half turn to the left, so that the pairs stand back to back, and grasp both rings 16. (See fig. 6.)

Fig. 5

Ranks of Eight:

4.	a) March backward four steps and mark time four

steps...........................................8	counts

b) Repeat exercise 1. b).............................8	counts

5.	March forward four steps and mark time four steps 5—8! Form star 9—12! Mark time and face outward (backs toward the centre) 13—16!

(Form star as follows: the left ranks of four perform a quarter wheel right — the right ranks march forward four steps. (Fig. 4.)

Digitized by Lj ooQle
467

Fig. 6

Star:

6.	Raise arms sideward and rise on toes 1—2! Raise arms overhead in a circle grasp the ring with both hands and bend the knees 3—4! Lower arms sideward (ring in the left hand) and straighten the knees to toe-stand 5—6! Lower arms and heels 7—8! Repeat the same and transfer the ring to the right hand 1—8! After the exercise all face left.

Ranks of Eight:

7.	Stride position sideward inward (toward center) and raise arms sideward 1—2! Bend trunk sideward (in the direction of the stride) 3—4! Reverse 5—6! 7—8!

Same in opposite direction 9—16!

8.	8. Lunge sideward inward and raise arms sideward 1—2! Turn and bend the trunk (in the direction of the lunge). Swing the outer arms overhead and downward, and the inner arms downward and upward 3—4! Reverse 5—6! 7—8!

Same in the opposite direction 1—8!

Star:

7.	Wheel once in a circle (fig. 6)................... 16	counts

8.	Form ranks of eight, Left ranks of four, a quarter wheel backward, the right ranks of four march backward four steps. In ranks of eight, march forward four steps and then the ranks of eight execute a quarter wheel backward thus again forming a rank of sixteen.

The ranks of eight after finishing thier exercise, face forward and again grasp the neighbor’s ring.

The music then plays four counts interlude, during which re-

Digitized by Google
468

peat exercise 9. Then repeat all exercises from 1 to 8, which will bring the participants hack to their original places.

(Play the music as it is written, hut omit the last page.)

WANTED

The following copies of Mind and Body are needed to complete the files of a library. Who can furnish them?

No. 72-Vol. 6. No. 149-Vol. 13.

0-» ■ ■ ■mini i i	..-.....	O

j PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE J

O —	—..—' ...........  ■	... ' -	o

Fatigue. “Fatigue is a diminution of the capacity for work which follows excess of work or lack of rest; and which is recognized on the subjective side by a characteristic sensation of malaise.”

Physiologically considered, muscular fatigue results from (1) poisons produced by contraction of striated muscle; (2) catabolism of the glycogen in the muscles, and (3) consumption of the glycogen stored in the muscles and the liver. Fatigue products are chemical substances, acid in reaction. They consist of sarco-lactic acid, monopotassium phosphates, and carbon dioxid. These substances circulating in the blood produce fatigue. They act not only on all the muscles of the body, but also on the central and end nerve cells. These waste products are eliminated slowly, and the body requires a period of rest for their complete elimination and the necessary tissue repair. If sufficient rest is not allowed between working days, a physiologic deficit must result. Strain or work done after fatigue has set in not only costs more effort but accomplishes less.” “Effort increases with fatigue, but if work is reduced by one half the period of necessary rest can be reduced one half or three fourths as much again.”

There are three stages of working power. In the first the working power gradually increases; it is the limbering up stage and is known as the stage of incitement. During this stage the output of the individual worker gradually increases. The second stage begins when the worker has gotten into full swing. This stage is known as the stage of practice; work becomes automatic, speedy and leaves free will for application to the general consideration of the work. After a certain period of time, the duration of which depends on the work, the physical condition of the worker and many other factors, the stage of fatigue is reached. This stage is usually characterized by a spurt or effort on the part of the worker to overcome the lassitude caused by fatigue products. It is evident on physiologic and psychologic grounds that overwork, an insufficient number of rest periods, and insufficiently long periods of rest all militate against the health of the worker, and increase the danger of accident. —From	“Health of the Worker” W. Clark

Jr., M. D., Worchester, Mass., in the Journal A. M. A., Oct. 6, 1917.

Digitized by kjOOQle
469

The experts of the National Collegiate Athletic Association believe that intracollegiate sport and recreation should be planned with the constant purpose in view of usefulness in after-life. They are inclined to believe that the conditions revealed by their investigations are due primarily to the lack of appreciation by college authorities and faculties of the vital need of systematic organized instruction in intracollegiate and recreational sports and hygiene. We are impelled, however, to believe that it is not so much the indifference of collegiate authorities as the dominance of competitive intercollegiate athletics which is responsible for their relative indifference to physical exercise in the very communities in which its value is being taught by lectures and textbooks. The glorification of an overtrained few means their sacrifice in many instances and the diversion of interest from more wholesome but less spectacular sports. As the committee referred to has concluded, the student should be furnished with such ideas of rational exercise and hygiene as will enable him to1 adapt his habits of exercise and modes of living to changing conditions in after-life; that is, he should be trained to think and act of his own initiative in these matters. Some games and exercises can be participated in as intercollegiate sports and can be continued in after-life. Tennis appeals to great numbers in everyday life, but only 65 per cent of the colleges afford the comparatively inexpensive equipment of courts. Baseball requires little equipment; every fairly well-equipped gymnasium can have a swimming pool and each student should be taught to swim. Social dancing and bowling are especially fitted to the opportunities of after-life. Fencing, wrestling, boxing and Indian club exercises and calisthenics, if made interesting and rightly taught, are of substantial value after college; walking and “hiking” can always be indulged in. A period of reconstruction in the whole domain of collegiate athletics is approaching.~Editor, Journal Am. Med. Assoc., June 20, 1914.

The Humidity of Schoolrooms. We have referred on previous occasions to the lack of evidence concerning the effect on health and comfort of the relative humidity in living rooms. The hasty assumption that a low relative humidity means similar dehydrating power, whether in a desert or in a schoolroom, is obviously unjustified. Consideration of the principles of elementary physics is sufficient to show that other factors, such as air movement and temperature, are of great importance in determining the loss of heat and of moisture from the human body. The emphasis sometimes laid on “humidifiers” and humidifying processes by newspaper sanitarians may conceivably divert attention from more significant matters. It is plainly impossible to maintain proper atmospheric conditions of any sort without taking into account air temperature and air motion as well as air humidity. The useful if somewhat awkward expression, “air-conditioning,” has come to represent for ventilating experts the sum total of the factors involved.

. Palmer, of the New York State Commission on Ventilation,

Digitized by (^.ooQle
470

recently presented a paper at the Chicago meeting of the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers which brought out this point with great force and clearness. Very interesting dryness records in rooms of public schools were cited, showing plainly that comfort does not depend solely on humidity. In one building, three fan-ventilated, humidified rooms were contrasted with three window-ventilated, unhumidified rooms. The five complaints of excessive dryness that were received from teachers all came from the fan-ventilated, humidified rooms. There are many things to be considered in such studies. The rate of evaporation from the body is perhaps even more affected by air movement than by relative humidity. The sensation of dryness is hot always measurable by the loss of water from the body. As Palmer says:	“On

' a cold windy day in winter we feel dry. This sensation must come not from a water loss that is at all comparable (with what occurs in summer) . . . but from the appreciable evaporation of what water is accessible on the skin, and the failure of the cold, contracted, waterless skin surface to keep the supply up to the demand.” It is within the experience of every one that the sensation of dryness becomes acute under conditions in which the water loss, from the body cannot be made up by drinking.

The question of the evaporation of water from the nose and lungs is of course on a somewat different footing from that relating to the whole body. Here, however, excessive humidity seems to be more detrimental than slight humidity. The nasal mucous membrane of the workers in the warm, moist atmosphere of laundries appears to be in a worse condition than that of the firemen and boiler tenders who are exposed to hot, dry air. According to Palmer, respiratory affections among schoolchildren are associated with high temperature rather than low relative humidity.

It is certainly not fair to state or to imply that schoolrooms admittedly dry and drying are as dangerous to health as deserts. The known physiologic effects of life in deserts are not duplicated in our northern schoolrooms in winter, even if the relative humidity is “lower than in deserts”. The loss of moisture from wet objects and from the human body is much less. Even the sensation of uncomfortable dryness is absent in schoolrooms with a low relative humidity, but without excessive continuous air flow and too great warmth (over 68 F.) As Palmer well expresses it:	“Relative

humidity by itself is thus criterion of neither dryness nor drying-ness, nor the sensation of dryness.”—Editor J. Med. Assoc., Sept. 8, 1917.

Military Training in Public Schools. “Military training in the schools conceived as military drilling is undesirable and unavailing; military training conceived as a comprehensive program of physical, moral, and civic education is desirable and even necessary,” declares Dr. W. S. Small in a chapter on educational hygiene in the Annual Report of the Commissioner of Education, Department of the Interior.

Mr. Small points out that military training thus conceived

Digitized by CjOOQle
STATE NO*... JiL SCHOv

UJtf AffnlgfJtflr CALUfO&WiA

471

“offers a possibility of unifying and ennobling the now confused and disjointed activities in the field of physical and moral discipline. The physical and moral values of both gymnastics and athletics are well understood, but both lack comprehensive and unifying motive. All systems of gymnastics are individualistic. Their appeal is to the desire of the individual for physical perfection. Competition is narrowly individualistic. Systems of athletics are mostly based upon group competitions, and if properly managed are very valuable, not only for training in the very fundamentals of social morality. But the philosophy of athletics is the philosophy of play, and the philosophy of play is the philosophy of instinct — a philosophy that is not comprehensive enough to serve as a sole basis of physical and moral education. Military training rightly conceived includes these motives and subordinates them to the ideal of patriotism.”—“Educational Standards” Boston, Febr., 1917.

The Superstition of Flat Feet.

By DR. ROBERT W. LOVETT.

Summary. Feet vary in shape as much as do our features; some are naturally flat, others have a moderate arch, and some a very high arch.

Any foot may become painful from foot strain without any change in the height of the arch under unfavorable general conditions, overuse, ill health, etc.

Boots are a predisposing factor to foot strain not only by cramping the foot, but especially by not supplying adequate support to the sole of the foot. For this reason persons with high arches are quite as liable to foot strain as persons with low arches, if not more so.

When foot strain occurs, it is desirable to rest the tired structures by support, most often a metal plate.

Exercise in acute cases and the use of a flexible shoe generally do harm rather than good.

My final heresy consists in the belief that painful feet are more often helped by raising the heels than by lowering them.

A Study of Ventilation with Screened Windows.

Supt. Wm. G. Cleaver of Bethlehem, Pa., in his annual report to the board, has given a brief summary of a study of ventilation by the gravity method and by the use of cloth window screens. The study covered a period of five months, from November to April, and was limited to six rooms distributed among three buildings. In each of the buildings one of the rooms was equipped with cloth screens and the other, of the same grade, with the usual means of ventilation.

In making the study, careful records were kept covering temperature, nutrition as shown by weight, health as denoted by absences due to minor ills, resistance to diseases of graver character, and mental condition as indicated by results of a series of

Digitized by CjOOQle
472

speed tests designed to reveal fatigue. The results bear out the following conclusions:

Temperature—No trouble was experienced in maintaining the temperature of all the rooms at approximately 70 degrees F.

Ventilation and Atmosphere—The air did not recirculate as freely in the rooms with screened windows as in those ventilated in the usual manner. During the latter part of the school sessions the air in the first-named rooms became unpleasant and oppressive.

In general, the conclusion is reached that the method of ventilating with cloth screens does not possess advantages which justify its general use.—From the American School Board Journal.

Air Moistening Device for Warm Air Furnaces.

A novel scheme for securing the proper degree of moisture in connection with the use of a warm-air furnace has been proposed by a member of the engineering division of the Iowa State College.

A slot 4 in. long and one-half in. wide, with the long dimension horizontal, was cut near the top of the galvanized-iron furnace jacket directly over , the evaporation pan. A strip of wire cloth 8 in. wide and 4 ft. long was folded lengthwise through the center. A sheet of asbestos the same size was then folded in the same way. The paper was then placed between the two layers of wire cloth and sewed in place, using a wire drawn from the edge of the cloth.

This combination strip was then slipped in the hot air chamber through the slot in the furnace casing until the lower end of the strip could be drawn into the evaporating pan near the furnace bottom. The upper end of the strip was opened for a funnel.

A connection was then made in the water pipe in the furnace room and pet cock installed in this connection just above the funnel in the upper end of the combination strip. Water allowed to drip into the funnel saturates the upper end of the asbestos strip. The length of the strip depends upon the rate of supplying water and temperature within the hot air chamber. In case water is supplied more rapidly than evaporated the excess collects in the evaporation pan below. As the weather moderates the amount of water supplied the moistening apparatus should be decreased or shut off.

In case water cannot be had in the furnace room a pail filled once a day with water can be supported by a hook placed in a floor beam above the furnace. The pail should have a hole punched In the side near the bottom and a pet cock soldered over the hole. Water can then be allowed to drip slowly through a piece of small hose into the funnel at the upper end of the asbestos strip.

A small hygrometer should be hung near a thermometer in one of the rooms. If a humidity of 30 to 40 per cent is maintained the temperature of the room can be kept at 3 to 5 degrees lower with more comfort than if the humidity is allowed to fall to 5 per cent or less.—Heating Magazine.

Digitized by Google
473

o	I'	'	o	•

ATHLETIC NOTES

o	■	o

By E. HAUG, Dewitt Clinton High School, New York City.

LEADERS IN NATION’S SPORTS IN 1917.

Professional Baseball.

World’s Champions—Chicago Americans.

National League Champions—New York.

American League Champions—Chicago.

Champion Batsman, National League—Eddie Roush, Cincinnati-Champion Batsman, American League—Ty Cobb, Detroit. Leading Pitcher, National League—Grover Cleveland Alexander, Philadelphia.

Leading Pitcher, American League—E. V. Cicotte, Chicago.

Football.

Leading Eastern Team—Pittsburgh.

Western Conference Champion—Ohio State University. Leading Southern Team—Georgia Institute of Technology.

Soccer.

Intercollegiate Champion—Haverford College. United States Champions—Fall River Rovers. American Challenge Cup Winner—Bethlehem.

Golf.

Open Tournament—Jock Hutchinson, Glen View, Chicago.

Tennis

National Singles Tournament—Robert Lindley Murray, Niagara. Falls, N. Y.

National Doubles Tournament—Frederick B. Alexander and Harold Trockmorton, New York.

National Mixed Doubles Tournament:—Miss Molla Bjurstedt, New York, and Irving C. Wright, Boston.

National Clay Court Singles Tournament—Samuel T. Hardy, California.

National Clay Court Doubles Tournament—Charles Garland, Pittsburgh,' and Samuel T. Hardy, California.

National Women’s Clay Court Tournament—Miss Ruth Sanders.

National Clay Court Mixed Doubles Tournament—Miss Ruth Sanders and Howard Cordes.

National Junior Champion—Charles S. Garland, Pittsburgh.

National Boys’ Champion—Vincent Richards, New York.

National Women’s Singles Tournament—Miss Molla Bjurstedt, New York.

National Women's Doubles Tournament—Miss Molla Bjurstedt,.

Digitized by Google
474

New York, and Miss Eleanora R. Sears, Boston.

National Indoor Singles Champion—S. Howard Voshell, New York.

National Indoor Doubles Champions—Dr. William Rosenbaum and Frederick B. Alexander, New York.

National Indoor Junior Champion—Edmund H. Hendrickson, Haworth, N. J.

National Indoor Boys’ Champion—Cecil Donaldson, Brooklyn.

National Indoor Women’s Singles Champion—Miss Marie Wagner, New York.

National Indoor Women’s Doubles Champions—Miss Marie Wagner and Miss M. H. Taylor, New York.

Court Tennis.

National Amateur Champion—Jay Gould, New York.

•American Professional Champion—Walter A. Kinsella, New York. •World’s Open Champion—Jay Gould, New York (retired).

Squash Tennis.

National Amateur Champion—Eric S. Winston, New York. •World’s Professional Champion—Walter A. Kinsella, New York.

Racquets.

National Amateur Champion—C. C. Pell, Tuxedo.

National Amateur Doubles Champions—Stanley G. Mortimer and C. C. Pell, Tuxedo.

•World’s Professional Champion—Jock Soutar, New York.

Fencing.

National Sabre Champion—A. S. Lyon, Fencer’s Club.

National Epee Champion—L. Nunes, New York A. C.

National Foils Champion—S. Hall, New York A. C.

National Women’s Fencing Champion—Miss Florence Walton, Fencers’ Club.

Intercollegiate Foils Champion—Thomas P. Jeter, United States Naval Academy.

Intercollegiate Sabre Champion—James E. Kieman, United States Naval Academy.

Intercollegiate Team Champion—United States Naval Academy.

Speed Skating.

Senior Outdoor Champion—Arthur Staff, Chicago.

Junior Outdoor Champion—Charles Jewstraw, Lake Placid, N. Y.

Hockey.	’

Amateur Hockey League—Boston A. A.

World’s Hockey Champions—Metropolitans, Seattle, Wash.

Cycling.

National Amateur Champion—J. K. Staehl, Newark. National Professional Champion—Arthur Spencer, Canada.

•Holds over from 1916.

Digitized by
475

Amateur Boxing.

National A. A. U. Champions 108-Pound Class—Thomas Fall, Lowell, Mass.

115-Pound Class—J. Jomasulo, Elizabeth, Y. M. C. A., Elizabeth, N. J.

125-Pound Class—Earl Baird, Seattle A. C. Seattle, Wash. 135-Pound Class—Thomas Murphy, Kansas City A. C. Kansas City, Mo.

145-Pound Class—Daniel O’Connor, Dorchester, Mass. 158-Pound Class—Eugene Brosseau, Montreal, Canada. 175-Pound Class—Ted. Jamieson, Milwaukee, A. C., Milwaukee, Wis.

Heavyweight Class—John Gaddi, St. Bartholomew, A. C., New York.

Gymnastics.

National Amateur All-Around Champion—B. Jorgensen, Norwegian Turn and Athletic Club.

Cross-Country.

Intercollegiate Team Champion—Pennsylvania.

Intercollegiate Individual Champion—I. C. Dresser, Cornell. National Senior A. A. U. Champion—James Henigan, Dorchester Club, Dorchester, Mass.

National Junior A. A. U. Champion—Gordon Nightingale, New Hampshire State College.

Track and Field Athletics.

National Senior Champions.

100-Yard Dash—Andy E. Ward, Chicago A. A., 0:10 1-5. 220-Yard Dash—Andy E. Ward, Chicago A. A., 0:22 4-5.

440-Yard Run—F. J. Shea, Pittsburgh A. A., 0:49 3-5.

880-Yard'Run—Mike Devaney, Millrose A. A., 1:57.

One-Mile Run—Joie W. Ray, Illinois A. C., 4:18 2-5.

Five-Mile Run—Charles Pores, Millrose A. A., 26:26 2-5.

Ten-Mile Run—Villar Kyronen, Millrose A. A., 53:41.

120-Yard High Hurdles—H. E. Barron, Meadowbrook Club, Phila., 0:15.

220-Yard Low Hurdles—G. Loomis, Jr., Chicago A. A., 0:24 4-5. 440-Yard Hurdles—F. Smart, Chicago A. A., 0:45 4-5.

Three-Mile Walk—George H. Goulding, Toronto, Canada, 21:50 -15. Seven-Mile Walk—William Plant, Long Island A. C., 53:04 2-5. Pole Vault—E. Knourek, Illinois A. C., 12 feet 9 inches.

16-Pound Shot—Arlie W. Mucks, Chicago A. A., 45 feet 10 5-2 in. 16-Pound Hammer—Patrick J. Ryan, Irish-American A. C., 168 feet 7 1-2 inches.

56-Pound Weight—Patrick J. Ryan, Irish-American A. C., 33 feet 3 inches.

Broad Jump—J. Irish, Chicago A. A., 22 feet 4 3-4 inches.

High Jump—Clinton Larsen, Brigham Young University, 6 feet 2 1-2 inches.

Digitized by
476

Discus Throw—Arlie W. Mucks, Chicago A. A., 140 feet 11-2 inches. Hop, Step and Jump—D. Ahearn, Illinois A. C., 47 feet 8 inches. Javelin Throw—George A. Bronder, Jr., unattached, N. Y., 184 feet 1-2 inch.

All-Around Champion—H. Goelitz, Chicago A. A.

Team Champion—Chicago A. A.

Swimming.

National Senior Champions.

50 Yards, Indoor—P. McGillivray, Illinois A. C., 0:24 1-5.

100-Yard, Indoor—T. Cann, New York A. C., 0:55 1-5.

220-Yard, Indoor—Norman Ross, Olympic Club, San Francisco, 2:22 1-5.

500-Yard, Indoor—Norman Ross, Olympic Club, San Francisco, 6:05 2-5.

Fancy Diving, Indoor—Al E. Downes, New York A. C.

100-Yard, Outdoor, Straightaway—Duke P. Kahanamoku, Honolulu, 0:54.

440 Yards, Outdoor—Norman Ross, Olympic Club, San Francisco, 5:58 3-5.

880 Yards, Outdoor—W. L. Wallen, Hamilton Club, Chicago, 13:05 4-5.

One-Mile, Outdoor—Norman Ross, Olympic Club, San Francisco, 24:10.

Long-Distance Champion—M. McDermott, Illinois A. C., 1:44:45.

High Dive, Outdoor—W. Williams, Los Angeles A. C.

Women’s Swimming.

National Senior Champions.

50 Yards, Indoor—Dorothy Burns, Los Angeles A. C., 0:29 4-5.

100 Yards, Indoor—Olga Dorfner, Philadelphia Turngemeinde, 1:07 3-5.

220 Yards, Indoor—Olga Dorfner, Philadelphia Turngemeinde, 2:59 3-5.

500 Yards, Indoor—Claire Galligan, National Women’s Life Saving League, 7:31 2-5.

200 Yards, Breast Stroke, Indoor—Mabel Arklie, Phil. Tgd. 3:364-5

150 Yards, Back -Stroke, Indoor—Dorothy Burns, Los Angeles A. C., 2:26 2-5.

Fancy Dive, Indoor—Constance Myers, Multnomah, A. C. Portland, Ore.

Plunge for Distance—Alice Goodman, unattached, San Francisco.

100 Yards Straightaway, Outdoor—Gertrude Arteldt, Philadelphia Turngemeinde, 1:18 2-5.

440 Yards, Outdoor—Olga Dorfner, Philadelphia Turngemeinde,

7:53 2-5.

880 Yards, Outdoor—Claire Galligan, National Women’s Life Saving League, 15:35.

One Mile, Outdoor—Claire Galligan, National Women’s Life Saving League, 33:00 4-5.

High Dive—Aileen Allen, Los Angeles A. C.	i

Digitized by C^ooQLe
o*

477

■O

NOTES AND COMMENTS

O	—	,	«	  —	-	——    — o

The convention of the American Physical Education Association will be held at Philadelphia, April 10, 11, 12 and 13. The main topic of all meetings will be "Physical Education and the War.” Elsewhere we print the preliminary program from which it can be seen that the committee has prepared a splendid program. Preceding the convention, that is from Monday the eighth to Wednesday the tenth, Philadelphia is preparing to show physical training work in its universities, colleges, manual schools, high schools, private schools, elementary schools, Y. M. C. A's., Y. W. C. A., Turner societies and recreation centers. A special committee is working out the details of the pre-convention work so that every visitor may have an opportunity to see the kind of every-day work he is interested in. At this time we wish to call particular attention to the fact that Philadelphia is one of the few cities in which playgrounds are open all year. Playgrounds and recreation workers, also physical education teachers who believe in outdoor as well as in indoor work, should make strenuous efforts to visit Philadelphia, and see some of the model recreation centers in operation during the daytime and evenings. Some of the field houses on these recreation fields are models that must be seen in operation to be appreciated. We hope that all the readers of Mind and Body will begin to make their plans now to attend this meeting.

ATHLETIC BADGE TESTS

Realizing the need for a standardized test of physical efficiency, the Playground and Recreation Association of America in 1913 decided upon athletic badge tests for the boys and girls of America which would tend toward all round development and which might be given uniformly in every state in the Union and in rural districts and cities alike. A committee of experts on physical training from different parts of the country was appointed to draw up a series of athletic events which would be interesting as well as effective in establishing fair standards of physical efficiency. After much careful thought the following tests for boys were adopted:

First Test

Pull Up (Chinning)....._.........  4	times

Standing Broad Jump..............  5	ft. 9. in.

60 Yards Dash....................  8	3-5 seconds

Second Test

Pull Up (Chinning)..............  .6	times

Standing Broad Jump..............  6	ft. 6 in.

60 Yards Dash....................  8	seconds

or 100 Yards Dash..................14	secPnds

Digitized by v^ooQle
478

Third Test

Pull Up (Chinning)....-..............9 times

Running High Jump....................4 ft. 4 in.

220 Yards Run........................28 seconds

The badges awarded the boys passing the tests, it was felt, should be simple and beautiful; they should not in themselves have intrinsic value, but their value should be rather in the ideal for which the badge stands. The badges were designed by Dr. R. Tait McKenzie and are of bronze.

Badge Tests for Girls

First Test

All-up Indian Club Race............. 30	seconds

or Potato Race.................  42	seconds

Basket Ball Goal Throwing.............2	goals, 6 trials

Balancing (bean-bag or book on head-24 ft., 2 trials Second Test

All-up Indian Club Race......... ..	.28	seconds

or Potato Race.................. 39	seconds

Basket Ball Goal Throwing.............3	goals, 6 trials

Balancing (bean-bag or book on head)..24 ft., 2 trials Third Test

Running and Catching...............  20	seconds

Throwing for Distance, Basket Ball

42 ft. or Volley Ball............44	ft.

Volley Ball Serving...................3	in 5 trials

The badges for the girls are also of bronze.

The Association will send pamphlets describing these tests in detail, Price five cents. Address:

Playground and Recreation Association of America 1 Madison Avenue, New York City.

PRELIMINARY PROGRAM

Twenty-second Convention of the AMERICAN PHYSICAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION Philadelphia, April 10,11,12 and 13,1918. HEADQUARTERS: BELLEVUE—STRATFORD HOTEL. Convention Topic:	Physical	Education	and	the	War.

Wednesday, April 10th, 8 P. M.

General Meeting.

Welcome to the City.

Presidential Address......William Burdick, M. D., Baltimore,

Pres. Am. Phys. Ed. Asso.

“Physical Fitness”........Secretary of War, Newton D. Baker,

Thursday, April 11th, 9:30 A. M.

Public Schools Section. William A. Stecher, Philadelphia, Chairman.

1.	“Fundamentals Regarding the Selection of Exercises”.

...............................  Emil	Rath,	Indianapolis.

2.	“Minimum Essential within the School as to Time, Equip-

Digitized by LjOOQLe
479

ment and activities”, a) In the Elementary Schools b) In the High Schools.

3.	“The After-School Daily Athletic Life of Boys”, a) In the Elementary Schools, b) In the High Schools.

4.	“The After-School Daily Athletic Life of Girls” a) In the Elementary Schools, b) In the High Schools.

Thursday P. M.

Therapeutic Section, R. Tait McKenzie, M. D. Philadelphia, Chairman.

*	Program	to	be	furnished.

Thursday 8 P. M.

Demonstration of Physical Education Work at the gymnasium of the U. of Penna.

The program will embrace typical work by children and adults. of both sexes in elementary and secondary schools, as well as in colleges, recreation parks and private organizations.

Friday, 9:30 A. M.

Women’s Section, J. Anna Norris M. D., Minnesota, Chairman-Program to be furnished.

North American Gymnastic Union Section, Herman Groth, M. D.,. Pittsburg, Chairman.

Program to be furnished.

Friday, April 12th, 9:30 A. M.

College Directors’ Section, Joseph E. Raycroft, M. D., Princeton,. Chairman.

Program to be furnished.

Women’s Section, N. A. G. U. Section.

Friday, 2:15 P. M.

General Meeting, E. H. Arnold, M. D., New Haven, Chairman.

1.	“The Significance of the Boy Scout Movement”

2.	“Public Recreation”...............Lome	W. Barclay, New York..

4:30 to 6 P. M.

Pool of the University of Pennsylvania.

3.	A demonstration in teaching methods in swimming and diving by boys and girls, under the direction of George W. Rieger,. Supervising Committee on Athletics, Public Schools, Philadelphia.

Friday 8 P. M.

General Meeting, Dudley A. Sargent, M. D., Cambridge, Chairman.

1.	“Education W. G. Chambers, Dean School of Education, University of Pittsburg.

2.	“A Social Program for Secondary Schools” Samuel M. North,. Baltimore.

3.	“Physical Fitness and Aviation”

Saturday 9:30 A. M.

General Meeting, William Burdick, M. D., Baltimore, Chairman..

1.	“Athletics in Military Training Camps” Joseph Raycroft, M-

D., .Princeton. Illustrated by motion pictures.

Digitized by CjOOQle
480

2.	“The Physical Activities of the Army and Navy Y. M. C. A.”

George J. Fisher, M. D., New York.

3.	“Recreational Work in War Camp Communities” William F.

Ashe, Petersburg..

12 o’clock — Business Meeting.

12:30 — Council Meeting.

SCHOLARSHIPS

of the NORMAL COLLEGE of the NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION Indianapolis, Ind.

The Board of Trustees of the Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union hereby establishes two annual scholarships for men, consisting of free tuition and books for the two-year course, to be granted under the following rules:

The districts of the North American Gymnastic Union are arranged according to the number of members, as follows:	1,	Pitts-

burgh; 2, St. Louis; 3, Philadelphia; 4, New England; 5, New Jersey; 6, Illinois; 7, Upper Mississippi; 8, Indiana; 9, Lake Erie; 10, New York; 11, Ohio; 12, West New York; 13, Wisconsin; 14, Kansas-Missouri-Nebraska; 15, Connecticut; 16, South California; 17, Pacific; 18, Minnesota; 19, North Pacific; 20, Rocky Mountain; 21, South Central; 22 Central New York; 23, New Orleans; 24, South Atlantic. In the year 1918 the Pittsburgh district and the St. Louis district will each have the privilege of nominating one young man for the scholarship; in 1919 the next two districts, Philadelphia and New England, will have this privilege, and so on. Such nominations must be received by the Normal College not later than July 1. If the district in order has no one to recommend at that time, the next district will receive the privilege. The district waiving the privilege will receive first consideration in the following year.

The young men selected must be not less than 18, nor more than 25 years of age, must be members of a Tumverein or a Tum-yerein school, and must be recommended by the district committee’s sub-committees on physical training and mental culture. The final acceptance of the candidates will be passed upon by the Board of Trustees of the Normal College and will be subject to the rules for matriculation as stated in the Normal College catalog.

The men granted the scholarship obligate themselves to further the aims of the North American Gymnastic Union as expressed in its “General Principles” by teaching, if possible, in Tumvereine, or by becoming actively interested members.

They will also be required to maintain a high standard of work while attending the Normal College.

Young men recommended for scholarships must possess the following qualifications:

1.	They should be well-proportioned in build and not less . than five feet and six inches in height.

Digitized by Google
2.	Their gymnastic proficiency should be such that they caw perform kipps and swing rises on horizontal and parallel bars and the various vaults over long and side horse.

3.	They must possess fair ability in the popular track and field activities.

4.	The grades received by them in their high school studies must average not less than 80 per cent; those who take an examination for the equivalent of a high-school course must make the same average. Their studies must include German, which is to be continued at the Normal College.

5.	Importance must be placed upon the selection with reference to character and personality. The character of the young mot must be above reproach and their personality such that it will be appropriate for the profession selected.

Young men who wish to apply for these scholarships should write to the Normal College, 415 East Michigan st., Indianapolis^ Ind., for further information as to procedure.

Report on the proceedings of the Physical Education Section at the Annual. Meeting of the Wisconsin Teachers’ Association.

The program consisted of round table discussions lead by threw speakers. The subject of the first leader, Mr. W. J. Wittich, Physical Education Department, La Crosse State Normal, was:— “Health-Knowledge with Health-Practice”.

In this paper Mr. Wittich claimed that the teaching how to maintain a vigorous health and its accompanying high spirits is as all important as is the development of the aforesaid requisites of life. The point he made was:—“Are we, as physical educators, doing all we can to promote health and happiness, or could we do more than we are now doing? Is our work of such nature that we not only produce physically and mentally healthy beings for the present, but also create within our pupils the desire to maintain these most valuable of assets for the rest of their lives? Has our influence and teaching gone outside of school, gone into the home, to the relatives and acquaintances? If we as teachers of physical training have as our aim the directing of this certain amount of kinetic energy present in all normal children into wholesome channels, do we, because of our knowledge of health and because of our daily contact with the children and students, consider ourselves the health guardians of those children and students?”

Mr. Wittich further claimed that “we very often know facts a long time before we acquire the habit of acting according to such knowledge. We, as teachers bf physical Education have all had courses in Hygiene, Sanitation and Preventive Med.; do we make good use of this knowledge in our daily work, do we practice this knowledge? There may be some objections to this on the ground that we rpay trespass into the territory of the school physician, of the visiting nurse, or even of the class teacher, but, in my mind, the work of the class room teacher, the work of the department of

Digitized by L^oosle
482

Physical Education, and the work of the medical inspector should be unified in a way that will give more forceful meaning to their varied, yet single purpose—the physical well-being of the child.

“Health-knowledge without health-practice is educational waste. That applies to both teachers and pupils, in fact establishing health habits is far more important than the mere furnishing of health information.”

Mr. Wittich claimed that this health practice could best be accomplished by associating it with the daily school, play ground, gymnasium, home and community life and should be based on actual conditions and occurrences. He believes that taking children to task who are passing the all day sucker from mouth to mouth in the play ground, explaining then and there the danger etc., will make more of an impression than an hour’s preaching in the class room. The same should be done in locker rooms when a boy is seen loaning the use of another’s supporter, or jersey, etc.

Mr. Wittich claims that in the heated competition in athletics, unsanitary conditions are overlooked. A foot ball room is no foot ball room unless it smells bad, unless the lockers, walls and floors are covered with mud. In basket ball, athletes expectorate onto the floor while the game is in progress thereby affording germs a fine opportunity for selecting another habitat. In the game of blind man’s buff the same handkerchief will be used to blindfold a dozen or more children, and often the teacher in charge can enumerate all the methods of transmission and symptoms of the various forms of conjunctivitis.

“The disadvantages of present systems of ventilation are that they are designed to work only when all doors and windows are kept closed. What then are we who conduct class room physical training in schools where there are strict orders that no windows are to be thrown open, to do?

In the discussion of this point it was suggested that the only solution is to have the janitor in the building close the drafts for the respective rooms during the physical training period so as not to disturb the ventilation in other parts of the building.

Mr. Wittich’s plea was for health practice and the formation of health habits.

Mr. B. Nespar, Supervisor of Physical Training of Public Schools of Manitowoc, Wisconsin, was the second speaker and had for his topic, “One Important Duty of a Physical Director”.

In this paper Mr. Nespar confined himself mainly to the schools and conditions with regard to seating of the pupils in the city of Manitowoc. He claimed that at the beginning, instances were very common in schools having adjustable seats and desks where after one or two adjustments the matter had been totally neglected, thereby subjecting the pupils to just as harmful conditions as if the desks had not been of the adjustable type.

Mr. Nespar claimed that leaving the adjustment of school furniture to the class room teacher and janitor proved very unsatisfactory. He claimed that the supervision of this adjustment lies with the physical director. “In this way teachers are not

Digitized by kjOOQle
483

held responsible for improper seating of children yet they are only too glad to cooperate with me in this important work. Bad positions, he claims, are not so frequent now and, best of all, the writing has improved thruout the schools, 100 per cent.”

Mr. Nespar then discussed in detail the requirements of a good seat and desk, the evil influence in posture of poorly adjusted school furniture and the conditions under which the effects can only be beneficial. He discussed the adjustment in accordance with anatomical difference between boys and girls as well as in accordance with the variations in maximum annual growths at different ages in both boys and girls.

His plea was that this most important and responsible duty is the duty of the physical director.

In the discussion which followed Mr. Nespar’s paper different types of school furniture were discussed.

The third speaker, Mr. William Hansen, Kenosha, Wisconsin, brought up the problem of recreation in the public schools during the periods before schools, during recess and after school hours. Mr. Hansen gave a number of ideas that he had attempted to carry out, and obstacles he had met with. He then gave the plans he is now putting into effect. The subject was then left for discussion which was entered into freely.

The business of the society was then proceeded with.

Mr. George Wittich made the following motion which was carried: “New officers in conjunction with the executive committee come together, their railroad fare being at the expense of the society, to make plans for the next meeting”.

Election of officers as follows:

Pres.—Mr. Walter Wittich, La Crosse, Wis.

Vice-Pres.—Mr. Edward Hoppe, Milwaukee.

Secy-Treas.—Miss Delia S. Gipe, La Crosse, Wis.

Executive Committee—Same as the previous year.

Miss Edith Dunham, Milwaukee.

Mr. Bajemel Nespar, Manitowoc.

Mr. Heineman made the motion that we send a word of congratulation to the sister society which has lately been formed in the State of Indiana. This motion was carried.

A motion was made and carried to discontinue the practice of sending a delegate to the National Convention.

Meeting adjourned.

D.	S. Gipe, Sec’y-Treas.

Capitol District — New York — Physical Directors’ Society.

At the last meeting the Society affiliated with the American Physical Education Association. Dr. S. A. MacComber, physical director of Union College was appointed by the President to represent The Capitol District Branch on the National Council.

Dr. E. H. Arnold of the New Haven Normal School of Gymnastics will be the speaker at the next meeting to be held February 9th at the Albany High School.

Digitized by U^ooQle
484

Program of the Meeting December 15th.

RENSSELAER POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE. TROY, N. Y.

Leave Albany, 8:30.

Belt Line Train.	Bring	Swimming Suits.

9:30—10:00 Military Tactics, Instructor to be assigned by Col; Treanor.

10:00—10:30 General Gymnastics, William Geer, Military Training Commission.

10:30—11:00 Methods of Opening Order. Miss Grace Waterman, Emma Willard School.

11:00—11:30 Playground Games, W. C. Bachelor, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.

11:30—12:00 Couple Dance, Frank A Long, Albany High School.

Aquatic Stunts and General Swim under the direction of Mr. Daniel Kelly.

Program of the Meeting January 19th Albany, N. Y. High School.

9:30 Military Tactics. Captain Nial.

10:00 Couple Dance. Miss Dorothy Jessup, Skidmore School. 10:30 Adjourn to class room.	I

Demonstration of Daily Class Room Program.

A.	Opening exercises—health inspection Mr. Daniel C i

Two minute drill (instructional period)

B.	Twelve minute (play period) Mr. James Carter

C.	Two minute drill (relaxation and refreshment peri

Mr. Daniel Chase.

D.	Activities for noon recess will be taken in gym latf

E.	Two minute drill (leadership training period)

Daniel Chase

F.	Twelve minute play period (group organization) M f

Ruth Slocum.

G.	Two minute drill (lively exercises) Mr. Daniel Chase*

H.	Formal Dismissal. Mr. Daniel Chase.

12:00—1:00 Luncheon.

1:00—1:30 Discussion of and interpretation of basketball rules.

Mr. William Geer.

1:30—3:00 Activities for recess period.

A.	Playground Games. Mr. W. C. Bachelor.

B.	Apparatus work, under squad leaders. Mr. Kellert,

Miss Gleason, Miss O’Keefe.

C.	Gymnastic Dance. Mr. Laurence Hill.

Caroline C. Johnson, Sec’y.

WHERE DO YOU STAND?

Do you Want to Know Nature’s Laws? Are you tired of Disease and Suffering?

Ignorance of the Law is Excuse.

Send 30c cash or stamps for our booklet “HOW I BECAME ACQUAINTED WITH NATURE CURE”, by Henry Lindlahr, M. D.

NATURE CURE PUBLISHING COMPANY

516 So. Ashland Boul.,	....	CHICAGO,	ILL.

Digitized by C.ooQLe