Vol. 3.	JANUARY,	1897.	No.	35

Editorial Committee : KARL KROH, cook co. normal school, Englewood, Chicago, ItL.

Wm.Stecher, Sec’r. of the Technical Committee of the n. A. Gymnastic Union, Cor. 3rd <1 Chestnut St*S, St.LOUIS,Mo. F. Pfister, m. d., Managing Editor, 760 Third 8tm MILWAUKEE, WlS.

ANTHROPOMETRIC STUDY OF EIGHT ACROBATS.

By JAY W. SEAVER, M. D.

DURING the last two weeks of November last a company of eight Arab acrobats practiced daily in the Yale Gymnasium, during a short vacation that they were taking. Their presence and their genial dispositions offered an opportunity for the study of the special physical development that might be produced by a definite line of acrobatic work, and the following points are submitted as the result of an examination of these eight men.

These men had been trained from childhood as acrobats and were now from 23 to 35 years of age, except one man, who was of indefinite age, but is estimated by the writer to be about 50. All were born in northern Africa, although all but three claimed to be of direct Arabic descent. These three were probably Berbers, having the Negroid type except in prognathism, the hair curling closely and the noses being flat.

The acrobatic work consisted largely of tumbling, at which all were exceedingly proficient, two of the men making especially high turns in somersaults. All were proficient also in feats of balancing and in pyramid formations.

The following table presents a graphic picture of their average physical measurements, and a brief study of the chart may bring out some of their physical peculiarities. The table on which their average measurements are blotted is the table made up from the percental tabulation of the records of 2300 Yale students. It will be noted that the average age of these men is beyond the limits of this chart. The weight falls at a point where 35 per cent, of the Yale measurements

Digitized by
-210-

were as light as their average, while in heights only 2V2 per cent, of the Yale men were shorter than they. The total height is made up of the height sitting and the length of legs, represented by the height of pubis. It will be noticed that their trunks are proportionally short when compared with the legs. The arms are long as compared with the legs, but it is interesting to note that the length of the fore arm exceeds the proportional length of the upper arm, as the height knee exceeds the relative height of pubis. The length of feet is in direct proportion of lower leg. The head girth and breadth is slightly larger than might be expected from the other bone measurements. The size of neck is seen to be the next to the largest measurement on the chart, the biceps being the only record that equals it. In girths of chest the inflated chest does not bear the same relation to chest uninflated that is found among the younger rr.en whose measurements are represented in the chart. In fact, while the chests of these men were well developed, they were extremely inelastic, and an effort of inflation produced little result. This lack of elasticity of the chest is emphasized if we note the capacity of lungs, which is, next to the height sitting, the poorest measurement on the chart. The hip girth and hip breadth are both proportionally small, which might be ‘expected from the small size of bones as shown in heights and in girths of joints. The upper arms are found to be more highly developed than the fore arms, and the size of right and left is more nearly equal than is the case among average Americans. The wrist measurements are small, although all of the men are proficient in walking upon the hands and in landing upon the hands after a leap or vault. The thighs are well developed and still are proportionally poorer than any of the arm girths, although it would seem that a large part of their work must be done with the legs. The calf measurements are the poorest girth records on the chart, and if we note this fact in connection with the length of feet we must be led to the conclusion that the force used in the tumbling and leaping is largely produced by the muscles of the thigh, while the calf muscles are comparative inactive. The depth measurements are in general larger than the breadth measurements, which shows that the Inen were of the round, rather that of the broad, flat-chested type.

Regarding the physical condition of these men, it may be said that two of them present well marked evidences of pulmonary tuberculosis. One man has been sick for three years with a severe cough and general weakness, but is [to-day the third best performer of the group. The other man, who presents signs of pulmonary degeneration, is the one who is able to support the other seven variously disposed about his person. He is considered their strongest man, although his weight is onlj' 132 pounds and his calf measurements are among the smallest. No heart lesions were discovered in the group, although three cases gave marked evidence of heart strain, in irregularity with slight dilatation. The heart action was influenced by their violent exercise of an hour to a remarkably slight extent, although it may be said that they used great judgment in beginning their work slowly, gradually increasing to a maximun, and then diminishing the vigorous exercise until the practice was completed.

Digitized by C^ooQle
YALE UNIVERSITY GYMNASIUM.

ANTHROPOMETRIC TABLE

Compiled from the measures of twenty-three hundred Students, and arranged according to the percentages indicated at the left. The black figures indicate millimeters and kilograms; the red, inches and pounds.

cP

0

O

Digitized by
—212—

One point, recently made by Dr. Arnold in this paper, regarding the influence of prolonged straining exercises on the circulation, is emphasized in the case of the man who supports the weight of the others in pyramid formation, for he has developed large varicose veins upon his calves and his heart seems the most irritable of all.

Certain conclusions regarding the physical effects of certain forms of exercises may be drawn from the data here presented, if the reader is interested in such study.

POPULAR GYMNASTICS IN GERMANY.

By F. E. LEONARD, M. D., Oberlin College.

(Part of the President’s Address at the Second Meeting of the Ohio Physical Education Association, Cincinnati,

November 27, 1896.)

THE German popular gymnastic societies (Turnvereine) had their origin in the turbulent second decade of the present century, at a time when the many independent states now bound together into the German Empire were helpless before the armies of Napoleon. A certain Berlin teacher. Friedrich Ludwig Jahn, an agitator and leader by nature, fired with love for the fatherland and filled with the idea of a united Germany, had begun (1811) to meet his pupils and other youths on holiday afternoons for games and gymnastic exercises in the Hasenheide, a pine and oak grove lying close to the city on the south, at the edge of a sand}r plateau which bounds the valley of the Spree. His spirit was contagious, and as his scholars became scattered they introduced the practice wherever they went. Numbers of patriotic societies were formed, meeting at frequent intervals to engage together in the exercises which Jahn and his older pupils had gradually elaborated. The turners, as the members of these societies called themselves, played a conspicuous part in the War of Liberation, which culminated for Germany in the Battle of Leipsic (1813), and for Europe in Waterloo (1815). Their numbers rapidly increased during the next few years ; but the murder of Kotzebue by Sand in 1819 was the signal for a reaction. The pronounced liberal tendencies of the societies caused them to be viewed with suspicion, Jahn was arrested, the open-air gymnasia were closed, and for more than twenty years the movement seemed to have died out. In the early forties, however, a more favorable attitute of the authorities led to fresh signs of life; but the revolutionary outbreaks which occurred in different German states in 1848—’49 put the societies again under ban. The wholesale emigration of the leading Radicals to the United States at this time is associated with the founding of the first German gymnastic societies in North America. It was not until I860 that the Turnvereine, freed at length from the taint of political partisanship, entered upon a period of development and expansion which has continued down to the present time.

The “Deutsche Tumerschaft,” a great national organization which now includes nearly all of the popular gymnastic societies in Germany and German Austria, was formed in 1808 by the union of the more than 1500 societies in existence at that time. The object of this body is “the promotion of German gymnastics, as a means of physical and moral

Digitized by Google
-213-

invigoration, and the fostering of a German popular consciousness and sentiment for the fatherland.” In form it corresponds to our federal government, with state, county, and local divisions and authorities. The more than half a million members are distributed among 5547 societies (Vereine), grouped in 252 sections (Gaue), these again forming the 15 circuits (Kreise) which constitute the Turnerschaft. Each subdivision chooses its own officers and manages its own affairs, subject, however, to the authority of the general constitution and statutes. The supreme legislative body is a congress (Turntag), meeting once in four years, and composed of the council, and twenty delegates, the latter chosen by the different circuits in proportion to their membership. The executive authority is vested in a council, including a president, corresponding secretary or manager, and three other members, elected for four years by the congress. It meets annually and appoints subcommittees from its number.

The different sections and circuits hold frequent meetings for joint exercises and competitive gymnastics. There were in 1895, for example, five circuit gatherings and 180 of sections. Once in four or five years a great national festival is held. At Leipsic, in 1863, on the fiftieth anniversary of the battle at that place, more than 20,000 turners were present and the greatest enthusiasm was displayed. At Frankfort, in 1880, there were more than 10,000 in attendance, in 1885 at Dresden 18,000, in 1889 at Munich 20,000. The last national festival occurred at Breslau in 1894, and the next will be held in Hamburg in 1898. Each festival lasts three days, and is preceded by a meeting of the congress. It is under the general management of the council, which appoints a leader for the exercises and receives reports from the local committee charged with more detailed preparations. On the first day all active turners present are expected to take part in a series of tactics and gymnastic exercises without apparatus. These exercises are arranged by the technical sub-committee, and published at least three months previously, to be practiced by the individual societies, but not executed in one body until this day. At Dresden there were 4500 participants. On the second day come competitive gymnastics and popular sports, followed by the announcement of victors. An excursion on the third day concludes the festival. Meanwhile, throughout the three days, there have also been gymnastics, fencing, and games by individuals, and by separate societies, sections and circuits. Participation is restricted to members and invited guests.

Every aspirant for honors on the second day must show his skill on three pieces of apparatus—as a rule the horizontal bar, parallel bars, and horse, and in three popular sports. He must perform on each piece of apparatus two exercises chosen by the technical sub-committee and published fourteen days before the festival ; the third exercise is one of his own choice. The three popular sports are also named fourteen days beforehand, and are selected by the council from the following list : high, broad, or high-and-broad jumping, pole-vaulting, running, lifting weights with one or both hands, putting the stone, climbing the rope for speed or distance, and wrestling. Judges mark each man according to the form of his required apparatus work, the difficulty of his self-

Digitized by C^ooQle
-214-

chosen exercises, and the excellence of his performances in the sports. All who receive more than a specified number of points are given certificates of honor and oak-wreaths. At Breslau there were 705 contestants, and at Munich 508 contestants and 58 victors.	(To	be concluded.)

INJURIOUS EFFECTS OF EXERCISE.

By K. H. ARNOLD, M. D.

TO those readers of “Mind and Body’’ who know of the transactions of last year’s Convention of Gymnastic Teachers at Milwaukee I need not offer any excuse for repeatedly contributing chapters on the deleterious effects of exercise. I trust that the following two cases are instructive enough to enlist the interest of even those readers that are ignorant of the doings of the above mentioned convention.

About two months ago I was called to see a young man who was for the past five years confined to house and bed on account of complete loss of muscular power. The history of the case is as follows : Once, when about twelve years old, he carried on his right shoulder the rather heavy trunk of a tree. Shortly after a loss of power in the right arm was noticed. A strain due to the carrying of the tree was thought to be the cause. No treatment was had at the time. The power gradually returned, but the left arm was henceforth the stronger of the two. When the boy was 16 years of age, he with some comrades indulged in lifting heavy weights. He succeeded in raising with both arms a weight of about 100 pounds overhead three times in succession. No immdeiate bad effect was noticed. A few days after this a loss of power in the left leg took place, this was quickly followed by a like condition in the right arm. The right leg and left arm were then affected nearly simultaneously. Finally the muscles of neck and trunk suffered a like fate. When first seen by me, the young man, who is now 21 years of age, presented a picture of atrophy of all muscles except those of mastication, the involuntary respiratory and the erectors of the spine.

The second case will be read with interest in reference to the opinion of some German authorities on exercises on apparatus suitable for females, recently quoted by Director Geo. Brosius in the “Amerikanische Turnzeitung.” It clearly demonstrates the fallacy of rejecting some groups of exercises as injurious to females, and recommending others without reserve.

Mrs. X, married, without children, was several months ago admitted to a class for married ladies conducted by a competent teacher of gymnastics. The examination of heart and lungs as well as inquiry proved the lady to be in condition to take the exercises suited for such classes.

The class progressing, free gymnastics of all kinds, running, jumping, etc., being well borne and mastered to such a degree that light apparatus work was thought to be without risk, a few exercises in hang lying position frontways on the bar were given. Mrs. X. almost immediately felt pains in the right inguinal region. A second and third attempt increased the pain so much that all exercises had to be stopped. The pain increasing constantly for some days, medical aid was sought. The »

Digitized by CaOOQle
—215-

condition was diagnosed to be a periovaritis. No other cause for it being apparent that the exercises mentioned, surprise was expressed over the accidental result of an exercise hitherto commonly considered harmless. The patient then gave the information that some years ago she had been down with a rather severe attack of pelvic peritonitis. The explanation is that in the exercise some of the adhesions were torn and a local inflammation ensued. If in the history given at the time of admission to the gymnasium mention had been made of this fact, the accident could easily have been avoided. The patient made a good recovery and returned to the gymnasium. She partakes of such violent exercises as running, jumping, fencing without bad effect. No apparatus work has been attempted since.

(Reprinted from “The Gymnast and Athletic Review”.)

The Effects of Exercises on the Heart, Bi.ood, Circulation, and Lun'gs.

A lecture delivered recently at Dundee, by Dr. WAYMOUTH REID, Professor of Physiology, University

College, Dundee, Scotland.

(Concluded.)

THE LUNGS AND BREATHING.

WE have seen there is a definite circulation through lungs from right to left side of heart, and here there are also arteries, capillaries, and veins, but their object is quite different.

In the capillaries of the body blood loses oxygen to the tissues and gains carbonic acid gas from the tissues.

In capillaries of lungs the blood gains oxygen from the air breathed ; loses carbonic acid gas brought from the tissues.

The lungs are elastic bags shut into an air-tight cavity—the chest. They communicate with the atmosphere by wind pipe only. The capillaries run in the walls of the lung bags. Thus the blood of the right heart is being continually exposed to the air of the lungs before it passes through to the left heart. The chest is capable of enlargement by contraction of a number of muscles. When the muscles stop contracting it falls back to its normal size. If the chest gets bigger, so must the lungs. The air pressure within the bags is for the moment less than that outside and air rushes down.

The use of all this is to effect an interchange of gases between the blood circulating in the walls of the lungs and the air in the lungs. As regards the blood itself it consists of a fluid part, the plasma, and suspended corpuscles. The red color of blood is due to haemoglobin, a red matter in the corpuscles. Haemoglobin is fond of oxygen. A loose combination easily disassociated by lowering the pressure of oxygen. Thus if haemoglobin combined with oxygen is brought near a substance having a greater affinity for oxygen than haemoglobin (/. e., a reducing substance), the oxygen passes off to this substance.

The tissues of the body contain such substances, and as the haemoglobin goes past in the capillaries it gives up its oxygen to those substances in the tissues. When it gets round again to the lungs it receives

Digitized by U.ooQle
—216—

new oxygen. This oxygen absorbed by the rissues combines with carbon to form carbonic acid. This chemical combination in the tissues is the main source of energy of the body. The carbonic acid must be got rid of. It passes out into the blood and combines with sodic carbonate of plasma and forms bicarbonate. This is disassociated in the lungs, and the carbonic acid goes off with the air in lungs. The air leaving the lungs then must be poorer in oxygen (absorbed by the blood) and richer in carbonic acid (given off by the blood) than the air entering the lungs.

There is a practical point here at once. The more active the body’s action, /. e., the quicker the combustion in the tissues that yields the energy, the more oxygen must be absorbed from the air and the more carbonic acid will be given out.

I am not supposed to talk of nerves to-night, but I must refer to one point in direct connection with the gases of the blood.

Breathing is automatic. It involves, however, a rhythmic discharge of nerve impulses to the breathing muscles from the central nervous system. The cells of the part of the central nervous system that controls respiration are very sensitive to changes in the chemical state of the blood.

Lack of oxygen in the blood stimulates these cells to discharge and work the chest muscles causing increased respiratory activity; this, of course, soon compensates for the lack by extra supply; hence a regulation of respiratory activity to needs. Other substances also stimulate, L e., products of action and muscles.

One other important point, viz., the effect of respiration on circulation. The lungs are not the only structures shut up in the chest. There are also the big veins going to right heart and arteries leaving left heart. The veins have thin walls, the arteries thick walls. When the chest gets larger there will be suction on these vessels as on the lungs. So the blood is sucked towards the chest each time breathe in air. In the right direction in case of veins, and wrong direction in case of arteries. The veins are so much thinner, however, that the netto effect is on the veins. Each inspiration then tends to promote the flow of blood from parts outside the chest to the heart inside the chest. Indeed, with the system of valves a weak circulation of blood could be kept up by respiratory motion only.

I am going to put before you one or two practical points in the application of these facts to the effects of bodily exercise.

Rapidity of renewal of the substance of a part is promoted by exercise thereof, and the changes during exercise in the systems we have considered so briefly are all devoted to that end.

Three things you all associate with active exercise:—1. The skin gets hot and flushed ; 2. The heart beats quicker ; 3. You breathe harder:

Why do those things occur in every healthy person ? By voluntary effort you set the muscles in action. At the same time your nervous system causes relaxation of the blood vessels of the muscles. Thus a greater stream of blood rushes through the acting muscles. They want to get more nutriment and get rid of more waste than normal. But the



Digitized by CaOOQle
-217-

active muscles produce more heat than when at rest. This heat must be got rid of. To do this the circulation in the skin where the blood is liable to cooling must be increased. Hence by nervous action the skin vessels dilate. This so far compensates, together with the increased loss of heat by rapid breathing, that the temperature of the body only rises about 1° F. with the most strenuous efforts.

Now dilatation of vessels in muscle and skin must, as we have seen, tend to lower the pressure of the blood in the arteries. This is just what is not wanted, if a good wash of invigorating blood is to be kept up. Hence (again by nerve action) the heart beats quicker to keep up the pressure. Finally you pant for breath. This is for two reasons. To supply extra oxygen, and get rid of extra carbonic acid. To help to cool the body. Hairy animals (dogs) cannot lose heat quickly by the skin and they pant much, even hang out their tongues to increase the “cooling surface.”

The substances that act on the respiratory part of the central nervous system are not known, but probably some products of muscular action (not carbonic acid). Thus the blood is aerated, the circulation quickened, and renewal of tissue promoted.

From this little resume, and from what I have said before, I will conclude by putting before you five points, with which I believe you are quite familiar, but of which. I hope you know now the rationale.

1.	Since a panting gymnast must exhale more carbonic acid and absorb more oxygen than a resting one, exercises should take place in large well-ventilated rooms or in open air. Dancing in crowded rooms makes you feel seedy next morning.

2.	To do real hard muscular work you must have a good heart and lungs. But moderate and properly regulated exercises may strengthen weak organs.

3.	Exercise immediately after meals is bad in adults, since the blood required by the digestive organs is “drawn off’ to the muscles.

4.	Brain work, impossible of course during muscular toil, cannot be expected to be at its bes£, till some time after exercise is oyer. The dilatation of skin and muscle vessels lasts some time after the exercise itself, and the circulation of blood in the brain is very markedly affected by that in other parts of the body.

5.	Exercises, to be of value, should be indulged in every day, and should be executed wThen the body is at the height of its vigor, viz., in the morning, and not at the end of a fagging day’s work.

As I said when I started, I have only been able to call your attention to a few salient points in the systems allotted to me, but if you find anything I have said of any value to you in your daily thoughts, I shall feel that I have been amply repaid for my lecture.

—“Wisconsin Association for the Advancement of Physical Education’’ is the name of the youngest branch of the A. A. A. P. E. which was given it at the meeting held on Saturday, January 9. The officers elected are: Dr. F. Pfister, president; Miss S. M. Burnham, vice-president; Miss E. W. Shrieves, secretary; S. B. Bond, treasurer; Messrs. Geo. Brosius, C. H. Doerflinger, and Miss Mecbling, members of the executive committee. Meetings will be held bi-monthly.

r

Digitized by L.ooQLe
—218-

^t It	r	Published	Monthly.

/VVlND ftND BODY. * FREIDBNKER P"UBUSHING c0

Sabhcription Price, $1.00 per Year.	M3J.-wra.viJc«e,	‘WUconaln..

J93T Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., 468 East Water St., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

FOOT-BALL.

AFTER the season is come to an end we will just look over the battle field and see whether the steadily increasing admiring contingent or those that condemn foot-ball for its brutality are right in their claims. The “Sunday Inter Ocean” of Chicago prints a foot-ball symposium and what its exponents think of the game. The “Inter Ocean” has sent 226 letters of inquiry to the members of the different university teams and has received 151 replies. A number of questions were asked, among others what injuries were received and what changes suggested. We know it to be a fact that in the past season a number of players have been severely injured, but in these replies we find only two which confess to have been permanently injured and 55 report temporary injuries. We are inclined to believe that among those 75 that did not answer we must look for the most crippled members of the teams; we see no replies from such that were killed, of course. Even taking the 151 as a basis, 55 injuries or over 30 per cent, is quite a figure.

We fully believe that foot-ball is capable of producing the highest type of manhood, that it is a physical exercise par excellence. We can readily understand the enthusiasm for the game, for it is in our estimation the most fascinating game in existence, but at the same time we must ask, Can foot-ball not be made less injurious, without taking away the interesting points ?

All mass-plays, “piling-up,” and fier.ee tackling should be forbidden. Who, years ago, thought that a very interesting in-door substitute could be found ? In basket-ball we have it.

Basket-ball is getting to be about as dangerous as foot-ball, therefore its modification, “Basquette,” should be welcomed.

Is it impossible to find a modification of foot-ball rules which maintains the interest and does away with danger and brutality ? Such a change should be agreed upon by the school authorities and forced upon the students if they at first should possibly fail to see the benefit. We have very few Spartan mothers nowadays who want their sons to come home from battle either with, or on, the shield. As it is, every player’s mother trembles until the game is over and until she sees her boy home whole; such is the status of the present “free of danger” foot-ball game.

Write to Mr. William Stecher, cor. 3d and Chestnut Sts., St. Louis, Mo., for a pamphlet for the N. A. G. U. Summer Scho o

\

Digitized by CjOOQle
-219-

GAMES FOR GIRLS.

By W. C. SCHAEFER.

IV.

II. Games with Apparatus, a) Blindfolding Games.

27.	RUTH AND JACOB.

A number of boys and girls, standing in close order with hands grasped, form a circle. One player is within the circle. She is blindfolded and then turned around several times. She then walks forward and touches one of the boys. Should she fail to touch a boy the first time, she follows the circle or crosses it till she has touched the boy. The boy, as soon as touched, enters the circle. The girl now calls out, “Where art thou, Jacob?” and the boy answers, “Here.” Guided by his voice, she endeavors to catch him, and he attempts to evade her. She continues to call him and to try to catch him. He must always answer and evade her if possible. This is continued till he is caught. She must now identify him. (If she fails, she must begin again, touching another boy in the circle, etc.) This done, he is blindfolded and brings out one of the girls from the circle, to whom he calls, “Where art thou, Ruth ?” The game can be continued thus as long as desired.

If there be no boys, a girl can take the place of Jacob, under the name of Sarah or some other name.

28.	THE BLIND COW.

A circle is formed within which the “blind cow” is blindfolded. The players circle to the right till the blind cow claps her hands, when they remain standing where they are. The blind cow now walks forward and touches some one in the circle. (Those in the circle must not seek to avoid her in any way.) The one touched says “Peep,” and the blind •cow must guess who it is. If she guesses wrong, she must step back and the players circle to the right again, etc. If she guesses right, the one touched becomes the blind cow and the previous one returns to the circle.

29.	FOLLOWING THE SOUND.

This is the same as Ruth and Jacob, except that there are no Ruth and Jacob calls, and the one pursued has a whistle. When the pursuer touches any member of the circle, the one touched calls out “Fire.”

30.	THE BLIND CHASE.

A stake about six feet long is driven into the ground. To the top of it are fastened by one end two stout cords from two to four yards long. Two players on opposite sides of the stake grasp the loose ends of these ropes. Both are blindfolded. One is the hunter, the other the game. When all are ready, the game howls, and the hunter starts after it. The game attempts to evade the hunter by every means, but neither the game nor the hunter may let go the cord. This is continued till the game is caught, when two new players are chosen.

Digitized by v^ooQLe
TABLE SHOWING THE NUMBER OF COURSES IN THE N. A. NORMAL SCHOOL OF GYMNASTICS

FROM 1868 TO 1896.

o

o

c8

FT

	m ^ ;			1—>		_											
	<§o <§ • ffle « ;Sc S cm oo :	: So S  . to —	a  j§3§	” 1889  to  51890	>*. : £sS  uo -~l	-1885  to  3 1886	isi	OO  s°s	1880 0 to 1881	to  M	1877  8j to  11878		61876	CM  s  CM	4^  l	31871	to  1
	to to I to	: to	o	0	»—»  0	**  O	0	0	00	05		**	4-	05	05	: 05	C5
	iss?	i									'					: O	
	Milwaukee, Course in the ormal School.  Milwaukee,  . Course in the ormal School.  Milwaukee,  . Course in the ormal School.	Milwaukee, Course in the ormal School.	Indianapolis, II. Course	Indianapolis, I. Course.	Milwaukee, X. Course.	Milwaukee, IX. Course.	Milwaukee, /’ll!. Course.	Milwaukee, V-!!. Course.	Milwaukee, VI. Course.	Milwaukee, V. Course.	Milwaukee, IV. Course.	Milwaukee, III. Course.	Milwaukee, II. Course.	Milwaukee, I. Course.	New York, III. Course.	Chicago, ily one Course.	New York, II. Course.
		: O  : ft	3	3	O	S>	?	?	?	?	O  rt		f	O  ft			3 s
	c • p : o	: c	3	3	p	0	p	0	p	0	p	8	p	p			•
	? i * '• SF  ||;8	: W  i I	<r  o	?T  0	CC  1	?  V)	00  0	oo i 3 i  X	03  i 3  X	CC  3  £.	w  0 . £•	*w  3	a	cc  3  sc.	Metz  and  leesel	i"£sr • 2.^ 2	Metz  and  leese
	c : c : c  X . X . X	: c	TT	JC	c  c/>	S'	S'  y.	5'  X	5*  X	c  w	c	S’  X	5  X	c	ft --1 ft	: c - y5  : /■	2 §
§	: h- : t—		• ^		g				H-					tc	_		
	r- : oo	: to	CM	0C		00	00	0	00	0	to	tc	05			: 0	00
ro	I-* : H- :	H-		l_1		(—									__		
b	m j H ; cc	to	CM	X	5	00	-1	<C	CO	0		00	35	00		4^	CM
141	12  11  11	1 -  : ^	»-»	Cm	to		o>		05	CM	cm	cc	CC	to	-*	i 1	to
	: :		I		7	-*1	>		C		&			W		7	
			[ugo G t 1895		3 Jv  &. 0  a.*	erd. K 11889	M  —f-		ustav 1 t 1883		'iss M. t 1887,			ich. Di —Geo, t 1896.			
			* 2 o  N  3  ft		8 W  s<i.  |P	ft  3	5,2- !	j	1  s		£  §			1 *			

_	|	Number,

gg g Year.

8 •<

x

8 °*2 ft N

Duration

in Months.

jfs*

£ 3

jsg

Number of

Participants.

Diplomas Issued

Graduates Still in the Profession.

Theory and Practice of Gymnastics, History of Gymnastics, Methodic; of Gymnastics, Anatomy, Physiology, Hygiene, English and German Language and Literature, History of Civilization, Pedagogy, Vocal Music, Dietetics, Orthopedical Gymnastics, Massage, Anthropometry, Fencing, Swimming, Wrestling, Boxing, and Principles of the North American Gymnastic Union.

Some of these subjects were first taken up in recent years.

1		I  XI891  	1		t—• 1	CM  X	1432 !
05  *	*	05  05	CM	CM  05	405

: S

00  S	1 3 1 : " :	i	1 ^ j $	1 I
3	1 2 ! : X :	SE	: cm : 50	! s

o g * S

* o

§?

5

n

c

3.

Physical r* >£

Work. | Sc

-------gSI

Mental s " 2 Work. § 2*0
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE 4TH COURSE IN THE NORMAL SCHOOL

OF GYMNASTICS AT MILWAUKEE.

g

CQ

o

o

&

O

SHOWING THE DIFFERENT STUDIES AND NUMBER OF HOURS DEVOTED TO EACH FROM SEPTEMBER

10, 1891, TO AUGUST 21, 1895.

PHYSICAL WORK.

Pract. & Theoret. Gymnastics with Students of Gymn. Course “	“	“	“	“	III.	Class	Teach.	Sem.

Exercises with the Model School.

“	“	“	Three	Classes	of	the	Teachers’	Seminary.

Fencing, by Mr. Rassmussen...............................

“	“ Mr. G. Heintz..................................

“	“ Students of the Gymnastic Course...............

Swimming, by Mr. Whittacker..............................

Boxing and Wrestling, by Mr. G. Wittich..................

J—

By Director G. Brosius.

Total.......

MENTAL WORK. Pnysiology, by Director Dapprich ...............

93*

English Language, by Mrs. Bateman........................................

German Language, by Mr. Griebsch ........................................

Literature	“	“	“	.....................................

History of Gymn. “	“	“	...;.................................

Singing	“	“	“	.....................................

Principles of the N. A. G. U., by Mr. Boppe .............................

Methodics, by Mr. Gerisch................................................

History of Civilization, by Mr. BurkhardU................................

Comparison of Diff’t Systems of Gym. and Applied Physiology, by Dr.Zapp..

Orthopedics and Anthropometry, by Dr. Pfister............................

Hygiene, Physiology of Exercise, and Art of Bandaging, by Dr. Teschan....

8

5

9*

11*

Total..

Total Number of Hours of Instruction...........

Z ' £

5

.f

£

106* 105M' 69*

32* ' :29W 20 9 lU'A 8*

76*	34*	73

37M	6

76*

5*

20* | 23^	21

13*	10	; 13

8	11	13

11

12

70*	70*

\A b'A

23

11

10

10*

5

10

147K 145^	98	123**;	113X|	128^	125K1	116

14	13
9	8
15	13^
17*	15*
	
9	8

66*

12

9

14‘*

12

2*

4*

9

•■4"

VA

63* I 44*	73J4

11 ! 8 12

9

3

6*

7

8

2*

3

12

8

13

9

4

7*

8

■9"

2*

9

8

12*

8*

3*

6

9

3

8

I'A

12

4

11

7*

>*

5

6

5

6

2'A

106*

7

2

7*

5

3*

6'A

8A

¥

1

80M	58*	890

‘	55*

225* 96 64 109 8 37 11*

81*	27J4

..... 8

20 12

7*	4

189*A 110*

1497

5*	2*

5	....

69^ 76	72*,

£3*| 14*|	7*

106

67

118*

106*

20*

35*

75*

18*

42

11

8

5

32

646*

2143*
_222—

THEORY OF FENCING IN FORM OF A CATECHISM.

Hy GEO. HEINTZ, Sr.

(Continued.)

Question : 27. How is the parry of lower tierce performed from tierce engagement:

Answer: The hand remains at the same height, the point ot the sword performs a half circle, large enough to evade the opponent’s blade from left to right downward at height of hip. Hand and foil are now in straight line forward and downward.

Question: 28. How is the parry of seconde from tierce engagement performed ?

Answer : The parry of seconde is performed by describing with the point of the sword a half circle from left to right, large enough to evade the opponent’s blade; at the same time the hand is turned, thumb downward but mostly to the right, the hand is slightly lowered and the arm extended; the point is directed towards the opponent’s chest. The hand is slightly outward from right hip.

Question : 29. How is the parry of quinte performed ?

Answer: The parry of quinte is performed by pressing the opponent’s blade to the left downward, hand slightly turned, thumb on top, point directed slightly left and to the front.

Question: 30. How is the parry of low prime performed?

Answer: The parry of low prime is performed by turning the hand, thumb to the left; at the same time the point moves slightly to the right and then is lowered towards the left side, blade vertical between both legs; the right hand is close in front of left shoulder, the thumb toward the body. (This parry is mostly used in combination with a return cut.)

Question: 31. How is the parry of high prime performed?

Answer : The parry of high prime is performed in the same manner as of low prime, with the exception that the hand is drawn to the left side of head and the point of the sword is directed forward toward the opponent.

Question: 32. How are the counter parries performed from the different positions just described ?

Answer:	If we are engaged in quarte and the attack take place in high

line of tierce, perform a circular motion with the point of the sword under the opponent’s blade, so as to parry quarte again.

If engaged in tierce and the attack take place in high line of quarte, perform with the point of the sword a circular motion under the opponent’s blade, so as to parry tierce again.

After the parry of lower quarte is formed and the attack take place in lower tierce, perform with the point of the sword a circular motion over the opponent’s blade, so as to parry lower quarte again.

Digitized by tjOOQle
-223-

After the parry of lower tierce is formed and the attack take place in lower quarte, perform with the point of the sword a circular motion over the opponent’s blade, so as to parry lower tierce again.

After the parry of seconde is formed and the attack take place in lower quarte, perform with the point of your sword a circular motion over the opponent’e blade, so -as to parry seconde again.

After the parry of quinte is formed and the attack take place over the arm, perform with the point of your sword a circular motion under the opponent’s blade, so as to parry quinte again.

After the parry of high prime is formed and the attack take place into outer line, perform with the point of the sword a circular motion over the opponent’s blade, so as to parry prime again.

GAMES AND PLAYS.

94-98.

DODGE-BALL.

About twenty-four players, one or two steps apart, form a circle and pass a light hand-ball (rubber or tennis ball, or bean-bag) quickly from one to the other, either to the left or right. The player failing to catch the ball properly, or who leaves his place in an attempt to get the same, becomes centre player by stepping into the centre of the circle. The other players forthwith strive to hit the centre player with the ball, who, bv dexterously evading the aim of his playmates, seeks to remain within the circle as long as possible, without being hit. The ball must not be'held by any one player, but be thrown as quickly as gotten. Such player of the circle only, in whose direction the ball may bound (misses), may run after it, all other players preserving the circle as nearly as possible.

The player who succeeds in hitting the centre player exchanges place with him.

BALL PLAY.

Practice.—Throw a ball upwards with the right and left hands alternately— catch with both hands; with both hands and catch with both hands ; with the right hand and catch with the left hand, and vice-versa; throw and catch with the same hand, left as well as right. Repeat, executing some exercise before catching the ball, as spinning around once or twice on the heels, picking up, or placing some object, shouting, or clapping hands a given number of times, etc.

i	CHINESE	WALL.

In the centre of the playground and reaching from side to side is marked off a narrow space for the ‘wall.’ On both sides of this wall and at a distance are marked goals, on one of which the players have aligned. The ‘builder’ is posted on the wall. Upon his call to ‘start,’ all players must cross the wall to the goal beyond, the builder endeavoring to tap the crossing players without leaving the wall himself. All players tapped assist the builder on the wall to secure the rest of the players. When all have been employed on the wall (as apprentices, laborers, etc.), the game ends, or it may be begun again by designating the player caught last as ‘builder.’

BALL PLAY.

Practice.—Throw a ball upwards, calling on a playmate to catch the same. Throw a ball upwards under the right leg, left leg; upwards with the right hand under the left leg, and vice-versa. Throw a ball upwards in front and catch in the rear ; upwards in the rear, catch in front ; with the right hand over the right shoulder, from the rear ; left same. With the right hand over the left shoulder from the rear; left hand over right shoulder—catching with same, or other hand.

Digitized by t^ooQle
-224-

RELAY RACING.

Intense rivalry and exhilarating exercise, with en masse demonstrations and shouts of victory on the part of the winners at the close of a test of well-matched runners, characterize the game of relav-racing, making it one of the most enjoyable of out-door games.

Teams once chosen, the competitive spirit is aroused. From the beginning, all the way through to the ‘finale’ of the game, the interest of the participants is of the most ‘cheering’ kind. The quick and prompt start of the players, as they bend over their course, is occasionally offset by the awkward or unlucky player who slips on his route, eliciting deprecatory remarks on the part of the members of his class or team, as he jeopardizes their united efforts to win.

The advantages of this game are that it can be adapted to all grades and to the sexes—the smallest play-folks as well as the swiftest athletes entering into it with zest, always ready to test ‘sides.’

The game can be played in a number of ways. Generally teams of six to ten are selected, the members of which are placed at equal intervals apart, to cover a certain stretch previously agreed upon—from one hundred feet, or less, to as many yards. Again, teams can be divided, the two halves being placed at the two ends of the stretch to be covered. The ‘starts' in this case are made in such a way that at the close of a team-test the two halves will have changed places. The teams are timed separately, the team having scored the quickest run being declared winner. The individual runners generally carry a flag over the course, which is grasped by each successive runner upon ‘starting.’

Many interesting ways of playing the game can be devised, such as giving the players some other object or burden, perhaps a playmate to carry, causing much merriment on account of the quick and at times ludicrous attempts at mounting and dismounting of the player to be carried.

One of the most enjoyable forms, however, employing larger numbers of players, is the following :	A number of pupils, perhaps sixty, are

divided into three equal groups. The playground being large enough, the ground to be covered is decided upon. Each group or team of 20 pupils is divided into two equal lines or halves, placed 30, 50 or 60 feet apart. Between the pupils of each line a distance of about two arms’ lengths, more or less, is determined upon. The three teams being placed in like order, the leader announces that he has a contract to award to the railroad, which can earn it by making the fastest time. It is a matter of concern to the party having the contract to award to insure quick, sure, and safe delivery of whatever ma}' constitute the shipment, merchandise or parcels, to be forwarded.

The teams now choose the road they wish to represent, and the leader gives to the first runner of each team a paper or telegram, to be delivered at each station on the road, and returned on the home-trip, which may be made a ‘through-trip,’ or fast express trip. The station-masters all in place, the ‘starter’ (leader) gives the signal, and the first players of the several teams simultaneously start to run across the fields to their opposites, each player in turn delivering the paper to the



Digitized by CjOOQle
next player in order on the opposite side. The last player, having received the message, immediately starts with it for the original station —the leader—who awards the contract to the first of the three last runners to reach him.

AMATEUR ATHLETIC UNION.

The annual meeting of the A. A. U. was held at the Astor House, New York City, November 16, 1896.

The following associations were represented :	Metropolitan Association,

Atlantic Ass’n, New England Ass’n, Central Ass’n, Pacific Northwest Ass’n, North American Gymnastic Union (Turnerbund), Inter Collegiate Ass’n of Amateur Athletes of America, Athletic League of Y. M. C. A., National Inter Scholastic Amateur Athletic Ass’n of the United States.

Want of space prevents us from printing a full report.

No business of extraordinary importance was transacted.

Mr. H. McMillan, Atlantic Ass’n, was again elected president; Messrs. Jul. Harder, Turnerbund, and E. E. Babb, New England Ass’n, vice-presidents ; J. W. Kelly, Atlantic Ass’n, treasurer, and J. E. Sullivan, Metropolitan Ass’n, secretary.

—The Conference Committee of the A. A. U. at a meeting held at the Knickerbocker A. C. recently, decided to annul the alliance between the Union and theL.A.W. At the meeting were: Harry McMillan, President; J. E. Sullivan, Secretary, and J. W. Kell}', Treasurer A. A. U.; G. T. Kirby, President Intercollegiate Association; J. Dean Tilford, President Interscholastic Association; C. C. Hughes, A. A. U.; J. Harder, N. A. G. U.; Dr. Luther Gulick and C. C. Paterson, Y. M. C. A. After careful consideration of the existing relations between the two organizations the following was adopted:

Whereas It appears that the alliance at present existing between the A. A. U. and the L. A. W. is without effect or value; and

Whereas Action is taken and legislation effected by the L. A. W. at variance with and in circumvention of the articles of alliance and also contrary to a wholesome spirit of amateur sport; and

Whereas The modifications of the existing articles of alliance, which were agreed to with the accredited representative of the L. A. W. to the A. A. U. by the A. A. U. on April 18, 1896, have remained unacted upon by the L. A.W.; and Whereas It is confidently anticipated that this action on the part of the A. A.U. may lead to a more perfect relationship of bicycling as an amateur sport to other amateur sports; therefore be it

Resolved, That the Secretary of the A. A. U. be instructed to serve the thirty days’ notice of termination of the articles of alliance between the A. A. U. and the L. A. W. in due form, as required by said articles of alliance.

The action of the A. A. U. is said to be the direct result of the rather shabby treatment received at the hands of the L. A. W. When James R. Dunn was president of the League, and C. S. Davol in charge of its racing interests, it was deemed advisable to co-operate with the A. A. U. in order to avoid any trouble in the government of the two sports. The alliance was recognized b}r both organizations until last year, when Chairman Gideon, contrary to all rules and precedents established by the L. A. W., sanctioned bicycle races held at Buffalo under the auspices of a club blacklisted by the A. A. U. This action naturally provoked the Union people, and continued disregard by the L. A. W. for the A. A. U. brought about a meeting last fall between representatives of the two organizations for the purpose of entering into a new alliance. I. B. Potter was present at that meeting lor the League. The committee drafted a new alliance that was seemingly satisfactory, and while the League representative claims that he submitted his report to the Executive Committee of his organization for approval, no notice was taken of the report.

“This action was not complimentary to the Union, and for several months the officials have been considering the advisability of severing their relations with the League.’’

The fact that the Intercollegiate, Interscholastic, and Y.M.C. A. organizations

Digitized by LaOOQle
-226-

are known to approve of the action of the Union, may result in the four bodies taking upon themselves to run amateur bicycle races independent of the L. A. W. Such an idea was hinted at. It is known chat the L. A. W. is rather favorably inclined toward admitting professional riders to membership next month, and this step, it is said, has been instrumental in arousing widespread opposition to the League among amateur organizations.

Physical Training at the Tennessee Centennial Exposition.

Nashshville, Tenn., April 5, 1896.

Dear Sis:—The Tennessee Centennial and International Exposition will be formally opened at Nashville on May 1, 1897, and will continue six months, thus celebrating the One Hundredth Anniversary of her Admission in the Union. The birthday of her Statehood will be celebrated bv festivities beginning on June 1, 1897, and lasting three days. The management proposes to make this Exposition rank in a general way second only to the World’s Columbian Exposition at Chicago, but in Section G, “Physical Development and Condition,’’ we propose to surpass in extent and interest any similar exposition ever held in the western world. In a general way the South is a virgin field for this department of education. No partiality will be shown for any special school or manufacturer, but all will be given a hearty welcome and free scope in which to display their methods of exercise or special apparatus. A very cordial invitation is therefore extended to all universities, colleges, technical institutions, and preparatory and common schools, German turners. Swedes, athletic clubs, Y. M. C. A.’s, and others, who may be interested in this special work, to assist in bringing before all visitors the advancement and progress made in physical education in either or both of the following ways:

1.	Exhibits of models of gymnasiums, showing exterior and interior views, photographs of athletic fields, base-ball and foot-ball, and gymnastic groups; also of prominent athletes and data of records, anthropometric charts, apparatus of all kinds, designs for bath and dressing rooms, etc. No charge whatever will be made for space occupied promptly on May 1, 1897.

2.	By a series of exhibitions by the athletes and gymnasts of the country, portraying vividly the special exercises of all the schools of physical culture and the work peculiar to certain states or sections. These exhibits will take place in the large Auditorium, and will be accompanied by suitable music to make the exhibition a complete artistic success, and will be given from time to time during the whole period of the exposition, as will suit the convenience of the visiting teams or individuals.

If societies desire to exhibit in a park instead of the amphitheatre, suitable arrangements will be made. For dates, application for space, and additional information address	John L. Jordan, Sec’y.

IN MEMORIAM.

On the 24th of December Mrs. Elizabeth Pfister of Milwaukee suddenly died of apoplexy. She with her daughter, Mrs. Louise F. Vogel, had been steadfast friends of both the German-English Academy” and the German American Teachers’ Seminary and in 1887, upon the death of her husband, the late Mr. Guido Pfister, in response to their common sympathy for the three institutions, donated the lot for the new Seminary of the N. A. G. U. and at the same time the lot and building for the German American Teachers’ Seminary and the German-English Academy, which institutions are now to their mutual advantage practically united, into one, a project which has long been the dream of those who are interested in these institutions.

RECORDS.

In the first meet for the hand-ball championship of America which took place at the Jersey Court the following were victorious: Lavoie over Fitzpatrick, Egan over McCarthy, and Schmidt over Flaherty.

Digitized by VaOOQle
—227—

TO CLASS LEADERS AND ACTIVE MEMBERS OF SOC’S.

Under this column we would like to publish your opinion upon practical subjects.

We will gladly revise articles and withhold names if so desired.

Come forward with your opinions and experience, all of you.

Editor “Mind and Body”:—There are two styles of Relais Foot-Races known to me. One is where a short wand or small flag is carried from runner to runner and each man after the first has a “flying start” of 25 feet.

The other kind is where each of the six runners is on the consecutive 100 yard mark and in the “set” position, with his back toward the advancing runner. At the crack of the pistol the first man starts, and upon reaching the second, touches him lightly on the back, which is the sign for the second runner to start for the third, and so on.

The rules for both styles are similar: The course should be a race track, if possible, with each 100 yards marked plainly; the distance is usually 600 yards and six runners constitute a team, while each man runs a 100 yards. There should be a judge to act as “starter” and one at each 100 yard mark, while at the “wire” or “finish” there ought to be two. In the first style there is considerable danger of losing time or dropping the wand or flag in the exchange, and also the encumbering sensation of carrying the wand or nag while running.

The second style, however, does away with all these annoyances and, what is more, compels each one of the six runners to run an exact 100 yards, thus dividing the work of a team as evenly and correctly as possible. No one of the last five runners is allowed to start until he has been properly touched.

QUESTION NO. 2.

I believe it is hard to stipulate the proper age of a turner for becoming turn-wart; judging, however, from my own experience, I would advise not to elect anyone before he has reached his 25th year, because prior to that time (even later), especially the younger members of a class, are apt to have too little respect for him and they would naturally lack discipline without which it is hard to obtain satisfactory results. It has also been very noticed that when an older turner, who is competent and has put all foolishness aside, has charge of the class, the general deportment, etc. is far better.

QUESTION NO. 3.

It is impossible to draw a definite line between what a turnwart and what an instructor should do. In my estimation, they ought to work hand in hand because to a great extent the welfare of the class depends upon the harmonious working together of both. In case a poor turnwart has been elected to office it is well to have a good instructor and vice-versa; at the same time if both are good, so much the better for the class that possesses and appreciates them.

Wm. H. Siemsen,

1st Turnwart Davenport Turngemeinde.

Editor “Mind and Body”:—Referring to the article in your December issue, pages 204—205, signed W. R., the writer in response thereto begs to submit his views touching the “admonition” expressed therein, respecting the age of a turnr wart or class leader. As to the fallacious belief that such a person must necessarily be an elderly man, and as to its comparative practicability in different turnvereins 1 would say that its enforcement is of doubtful advantage. It has been conspicuously evidenced time and again that young class leaders excell older ones, the writer of this himself being connected with a turn society in Milwaukee, which for the last six or seven years has captured the first and highest honors of this state under the guidance of decidedly young men. This should be evidence enough to the contrary and certainly demonstrates the complete competency of a young class leader. We have established a reputation with young men, ranging in age from 18 to 23 years, and the remark, therefore, that such young calibre is detrimental to a class is entirely without reason. A careful investigation of turnfest statistics will show that very often it was turn societies, guided by young men, that have manifested their superiority.

Further, a class leader, 35 years of age, executing or directing personally

Digitized by U.ooQLe
—228-

gvm nastic movements for the younger element which is naturally looking forward to development of the highest order and in accordance with the general turner principles imparted to them in this great and advancing era, is hardly at his best, for a man of that age is (as we are all well aware) hampered by thoughts af a different nature. His mind is engrossed with family cares and otherwise, and he cannot so freely devote his faculties as is required of a man occupying the responsible position of first turnwart to the society. Therefore, to fulfill his obligations conscientiously and perform his duties and functions property is an accomplishment hardly attainable for him, and usually results directly the opposite way. What have we a teacher for? Is it not to direct and supervise the entire system and schedule of the gymnastic work? Is he not the one who assumes the first command to whom we owe respect, and in whom we trust, being our senior? Does he not share with us alike, success and defeat ? If so, then are not our turnwarts to be selected from among our midst? Young men who have within themselves the best and most efficient qualities, both as regards practical knowledge and superior intelligence ? Is it so very difficult to find in a society young men who combine these essential qualifications within themselves ? I say most emphatically NO! Then why seek out the “old lights’’ to lead and steer us to success?

As to my friend’s remark, “He must be a man of sufficient moral courage, etc.,’’ I believe, as I have stated above, that we can secure from amidst our actives intelligent and worthy representatives, fully capable of guarding and protecting the interests and welfare of the younger members. It does not require grey hair to manifest the possession of brains. The second turnwart, in my opinion, should be an exact counterpart of his co-worker in every respect, as there is no difference in realit}' between the two, except in name.

As to the substantiation of my friend’s claims, the same is absurd for the reason that an investigation of previous accomplishments (which have repeated themselves heretofore continually, as above mentioned) will show the enormous and marked advantage of being taught by a young as against a 35 year old turnwart.

I feel confident that my foregoing unprejudiced and unbiased sentiments form a good argument in the question at which age a turnwart will prove the most beneficial.	E.	G.

CORRESPONDENCE.

Dr. J., Cincinnati.—That Ohio Ph. E. A. report did not arrive as yet.

L. 0., -V. Y.—We believe that other engagements prevented some of them from taking an active part in it this year.

Miss A. C.—Mr. Wm. Stecher, cor. 3d and Chestnut Sts., St. Louis, Mo., will furnish you with a pamphlet.

Bundesfestbehoerde, St. Louis.—The secretary of the technical committee, Mr. St., W0.s the only one who sent us a report of your doings, but that is months ago and we suppose he can hardly be expected to do everything. We would gladly open our columns to a regular correspondent. Such festivities should be advertised. Better advertisement would have meant a great deal for Milwaukee and Cincinnati.

Jul. Harder.—Thanks. Keep it up, you will be a very valuable correspondent in the far “East.”

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—“Gymnasium” has a very good article, “Games in Gymnasium,” in its September-October issue.

—The Philadelphia Tumgemeinde will celebrate its 50th anniversary in a very fitting manner by erecting a monument to our “Turnvater” F. L^Jahn. A commendable idea.

Digitized by ^ooQie