PUBLISHED MONTHLY.—SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.00 PER YEAR.

Vol. 13.	MAY,	1906.	No.	147

Editorial Committee :

DR. E. H. ARNOLD, New Haven. Conn.

DR. ROBERT NOHR, PubUc Schools, Fort Wayne, Ind.

CHR. EBERHARD, Boston Athletic Ass., Boston, Mass.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. E. DAY, Physical Director, Dayton, Ohio.

WM. A. STECHER, Physical Director, Public Schools, Indianapolis, Ind. DR. F. PFISTER, Managing Editor, Milwaukee, Wis.

Editorial communications are to be sent to Dr. F. Pfister, 760— 3rd St., Milwaukee, Wis.

All business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., c. o. Herold Building, Milwaukee, Wis.

THE INTRODUCTION OF MANUAL LABOR AS A SYSTEM OF EXERCISE IN EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS (1825-1835).

By FRED EUGENE LEONARD, Oberlin College.

I	L

I Philip Emanuel von Fellenberg (1771-1844), born at Bern, Switzerland, of patrician parents, purchased in 1799 the country estate of Hofwvl, six miles from his native city, and there began to develop a system of education based upon the union of agricultural and mechanical labor with intellectual and moral training. The experiment, which was continued with growing success for forty-five years, until the time of his death, although at first it excited ridi-' cule, attracted little by little the attention of teachers and parents in all parts of Europe, and Hofwvl became a sort of educational Mecca for a constant succession of visitors. Pupils were drawn from the two extremes of society. The sons of gentlemen and members of

Digitized by
—60 —

tthe nobility were lodged by themselves, and devoted about nine hours a day to their studies, which included a wide range of subjects —ancient and modern languages and literature, mathematics, the natural sciences, history, music, drawing, and others—and a part of the remaining hours to labor in the garden or workshop and to gymnastic exercise and games. Boys taken from the poorest class formed another group, for which separate provision was made throughout They worked in the fields or at various trades during the greater part of the day, but for two or three hours in the summer, or more in winter, were occupied with lessons in reading, writing, arithmetic, and singing, arid with elementary instruction in other branches likely to be of use to them.

One of the earliest Americans to find his way to Hofwyl was Joseph Green Cogswell, whose two visits in 1818 have been already mentioned (Vol. XII, p. 218). Certain features of the life at Round Hill School show how deeply he was impressed by Fellenberg’s methods of organization and management. Of much greater import, from our present point of view, was the visit paid by John Griscom later in the same year (see Vol. XII, p. 316), and described in the published record* of his foreign travels which appeared in 1823. That the results of his painstaking observations reached a large circle of readers appears from the fact that two editions of the book were required to meet the popular demand, and that the profits derived from its sale were sufficient to meet the expenses of the journey. No other work issued during the first half of the nineteenth century, it is said, exerted so wide an influence upon the development of educational measures in the United States.

Griscom tells his readers that the number of strangers who daily call to examine Fellenberg's institution during the traveling season cannot be estimated at less than twelve of fifteen. Among other things he was shown “the garden and playground of the upper school, and the fixtures for their gymnastic exercises.. . .Each of them has a portion of garden ground assigned to him, which he cultivates as his own; while a more extensive enclosure belongs to them in common, in the labor of which they are governed by rules adopted by themselves. They have their choice also of the mechanic arts, facilitated by the numerous workshops on the premises.” He saw also the house occupied by about forty poor boys, who were “clothed and fed in a very plain, coarse, and farmerlike style, and who work diligently in the fields at employments adapted to their strength and skill.. .. They are likewise introduced into the workshops, and taught the business of a blacksmith, a carpenter, a wheelwright, a cabinet maker, a turner, a shoemaker, or a worker in brass, according as a particular talent for any of these may manifest itself. The produce of the labor of these boys bears no inconsiderable proportion of the expense of their maintenance and instruction.” The practical bearing

*A Year in Europe, Vol. I. pp. 381-401.

Digitized by
-67-

of this last fact upon home problems does not escape him, for farther on we read: “I have but little doubt that on a good, productive farm of 250-300 acres, provided with suitable buildings and well stocked, a school of twenty-five or thirty boys conducted on the plan of Fel-lenberg’s poor school would maintain itself and leave a gain in favor of the proprietor.,, But after urging strongly the need of such institutions in America, he concludes with a touch of disappointment: “The pulse of the nation has already been felt on this subject by a benevolent individual (our friend M...), who, having visited the institutions of Pestalozzi and Fellenberg, was resolved, if possible, to establish one or more schools in the United States on a similar plan. But after traveling from New York to Lake Erie he could find no one who would agree to second his views,—none who did not consider the plan as either unnecessary or impracticable.,,

The most exhaustive account of the Swiss experiment, however, and the one which reveals most adequately the spirit of its author, is furnished by the “Sketches of the Fellenberg Institution at Hof-wyl, in a series of [XXII] Letters to a Friend,” written by William Channing Woodbridge (1794-1845) and published monthly in the American Annals of Education and Instruction from August of 1830 through November of 1831. These were accompanied by articles on “Classical Instruction at Hofwyl” and the ‘‘Agricultural School at Hofwyl,” and followed in 1832 by six letters each on “Intellectual Education at Hofwyl,” and on the “Influence of Agriculture in Education” and the “Agricultural Institution at Hofwyl,” together with an article describing the “Course of Natural History at Hofwyl.” We have the testimony of Dr. William A. Alcott* that these letters, written on the spot, contain “almost everything that our countrymen have ever read on that subject.” In 1826, while abroad in search of health, Woodbridge had spent three months at Hofwyl, at Fellenberg’s invitation, engaged in studying the various establishments there and also rendering some assistance as a teacher. He afterwards revisited the place, in the summer of 1828, and this time remained nearly a year. The first letter is dated at Hofwyl, August, 1829. Upon his return to the United States Woodbridge purchased the American Journal of Education and became its editor, changing the name to American Annals of Education and Instruction.

Letters XI-XIII of the first series, published in March and April, 1831, are concerned with Physical Education. The principal means employed, he says, “may be reduced to pure air, a suitable diet, regular exercise and repose, and the proper distribution of time. In the Agricultural School the very nature of the establishment furnishes all that is necessary. In the higher schools artificial means must be provided to counteract an artificial excess of intellectual life... The requisite instruments for various active games are constantly furnished, and placed within the reach of the pupils as regularly as

*See article "W. C. Woodbridge” in Barnard’s American Journal of Education, Vol. V, pp. 51-64 (1858, June).
-68-

the means of intellectual improvement and amusement. To connect exercise as much as possible with habits of industry each pupil who is capable of such a task is provided with a small portion of ground to be cultivated as a garden, whose fruits afford him a reward and at the same time an encouragement for foresight, labor, and perseverance. A zvorkshop, wrell furnished with tools and materials for cabinet work, under the direction of a master workman, enables those who are disposed to occupy themselves in this manner to acquire a kind of skill always useful in life and to manufacture many little articles of convenience or taste. But in addition to this gymnastic exercises form a part of the regular business of every day. They consist in leaping, climbing, pulling, hanging to a beam, pulling a rope, climbing a ladder, running, swimming, &c. . . These exercises take place in the open air when the weather is fine, and at other times in the spacious riding school.” He also refers to instruction in fencing and dancing and the occasional drill in military exercises, to the great importance attached to bathing, and to the annual pedestrian journey in the mountains of Switzerland. Discussing the influence of physical education on the mind and character, he says that ‘‘There is scarcely any point in which the system of Fellenberg ex-fcited stronger interest in my own mind than in the connection of physical education with intellectual and moral improvement.” The exercises help to correct the habit of wandering from one subject to another, and impatience and irritability of temper, and they tend to form and improve the character in a variety of respects. Thev lead the idle to habits of occupation and industry, cultivate the habit of perseverance, inspire with courage and enterprise and furnish at the same time a lesson in caution and prudence, and the care of the little garden spots gives training in foresight and calculation.

In other letters, published in 1832, Woodhridge returns to the same subject. After quoting Fellenberg’s opinion that no employment is so conducive to the harmonious development of our powers as agriculture, and repeating that “agriculture as it is pursued at Hofwyl, and as it may be pursued in any institution, furnishes many means for direct intellectual instruction and moral improvement,’5 he adds that “as a handicraft it contributes to the health and vigor of body, by giving active employment in the open air where it is in its purest state.” Repeated applications in reference to the establishment of agricultural schools have suggested a more detailed account of the principles of that at Hofwyl. “The fundamental ideas on which the school for the poor was established were—to employ agriculture as a means of moral education for the poor, and to make their labors the means of defraying the expense of their education. . . To accomplish the two great objects it is obvious that the pupil should be employed in such labors as are most productive, at Ihe same time that they are conducive to education. The greatest variety should also be introduced, in order that no moment in the year which is dedicated to labor may l>e lost for want of an employment adapted

Digitized by Google
-<»y-

to it. . . . I have rejoiced to learn that, imperfect as they are, the ‘Sketches of Hofwyl’ and the principles connected with this system of education have excited deep interest in the most intelligent friends of education, and have roused some at least to new hopes and increased efforts. . . More than one individual and community are awake to the importance of establishing similar institutions, as to their essential principles. A Manual Labor School Society has been formed, and I cannot but hope that if persons could be found sufficiently devoted and competent to their superintendence they would in another half century embrace most of our youth who advance beyond the limits of common school instruction.”

By the time Woodbridge’s letters appeared in print manual labor as a means of exercise, or pecuniary profit, or both, had already been introduced with success in a number of institutions on this side of the Atlantic. [Three of the earliest examples, and the ones most widely quoted at the time, were the Maine Wesleyan Seminary, at Readfield, the Oneida Institute of Science and Industry, at Whites-boro. New York, and the Theological Seminary at Andover, Massachusetts. Whatever may have been the influence of foreign experiment in suggesting the measure in each of these cases, they became independent centers from which the movement rapidly spread to all parts of the country. At the Readfield Seminary, “believed to have been the first [in the United States] in which manual labor was united with study, with a view to furnish the poor with an education, and preserve the health of the rich while engaged in study,” the system was introduced in the spring of 1825; the plan of the Oneida Institute was put in operation a year later, and the Mechanical Association organized by students in Andover Seminary dates from the summer of 1827.

The Maine Wesleyan Seminary* was in reality an academy, offering two courses of study, each of which covered three years. One course prepared for college, and the other was intended to give a thorough English education. About the year 1820 Elihu Robinson, then residing at Augusta, Maine, together with Luther Sampson of Readfield, formed the design of an institution in which manual labor should be united with study. They believed that many worthy young men were through poverty deprived of the advantages of an education, that many who possessed these advantages became the victims of idleness and dissipation for want of the proper motives to industry, and that many others, for want of some regular and systematic exercise, were doomed to an earlv grave. The system was fully matured as early as 1824 and went into successful operation in the spring of 1825.

•This account of the Seminary is quoted, abridged, and rearranged from the American Quarterly Register (then called the Quarterly Register and Journal of the American Education Society), Vol. II, pp. 63 and 110-112 (1829, November), supplemented by information contained in later issues of the same jouraal and in the American Annals of Education and Instruction.

Digitized by LjOOQle
—70—

Mr. Sampson contributed ten thousand dollars to the object, and directed that the money be expended in such a manner that indigent young men, and others who felt disposed, might pay for their board and tuition with the avails of their labor. A_farm of one hundred acres was obtained and put under cultivation, a mechanic’s workshop was established, a boarding house was built, and the requisite preparation for giving instruction was made. The rules required that the students spend the whole of the afternoon of each day in labor, on the farm or in the workshop, under the direction of a superintendent who acted at the same time as steward. Students who preferred to do so might enter the seminary as boarders merely, paying their expenses as at other institutions, devoting their whole time to study, and exercising when and how they pleased. The laboring students formed a distinct department, known as the Department of Industry. During the year 1828, out of 107 boys and young men in attendance, 48 were enrolled in this department, 17 of them engaged in agriculture and 31 in manual labor.

At the close of 1829 three thousand dollars had been invested to furnish the means of labor. The principal branches in the mechanical department were then chair making, cabinet work, turning, sash making, tool making, coopering, and block making. Shoe making had been tried, but given up because it was found to be decidedlv unfavorable to the health of those employed. The boarding establishment was now large enough for about fifty. All connected with it worked five hours each day, commencing at 12 130 or 1 :oo according to the season of the year, and received compensation in proportion to their ability and disposition to labor. In this way thev were generally able to pay their board: some paid all expenses, and a few did even more. It was the belief of tha principal. Merritt Caldwell, that up to that time the expectations of the founders had been fullv realized. In the literary department there was no difficulty in classing those who labored with those who did not; some who had paid nearly all their expenses by labor had outstripped any outside the department of industry. Health was uniformly good, and the system was highly popular with the students. Not all who would have 1>een glad to enjov the advantages could be accommodated. The institution was highly prosperous, but needed a more extensive mechanical establishment, with tools, and a boarding house proportionately large. He thought that the future hopes of the seminary must he placed more on the workshop than on the farm.

In January of 1833 the Trustees reported that “the studies of. those who labor have not been impeded by devoting five hours in a day regularly to this employment. Though the proficiency of those who do not lalx>r may be greater for a few weeks, yet in a course of study the laboring student has an obvious advantage in his uniform health and increased vigor of mind.. . . Since the first establishment of the Seminary nearly three hundred students have been employed in
-Ti-

the laboring departments, and have paid a considerable amount towards the expenses of their education. A large proportion of them had no other means of obtaining the advantages of education. On account of numerous applications during the past year a new black-* smith’s shop had been erected, and a larger shop for the carpenters and cabinet makers.” In the fall of 1833 there were 167 students in attendance, 37 of them girls and young women ; ten were employed in the agricultural and forty in the mechanical department, and the Department of Industry continued full up to the limit of the accommodations it was able to afford.

{To be continued.)

THE PLAY OF MAN.

By KARL GROOS.

(A Resume'read before the Principals' Club of Indianapolis by WILLIAM A. STECHER.)

(Concluded.)

Group II, Playful Use of the Motor Apparatus, is divided into two parts: Ay Playful movement of the bodily organs, and B, Playful movement of foreign bodies; this latter part having six subdivisions. Commenting on the manifold and apparently aimless movements of infants, Preyer says:	‘‘In the

first year exercise of the muscles seems to be the only reason of all this activity which appears to be aimless. An adult lying on his back could not repeat the commonest movements of a seven to twelve months old child without extreme fatigue.’* In arm movements the development of righthandedness is of especial interest An entirely satisfactory explanation has not been offered, but the reason given by physiologists, namely that the left brain hemisphere has a better blood supply than the right, is now generally accepted as correct.

Turning now to playful locomotion or change of place we find the biological significance of play, the elaboration of certain imperfect instincts, brought out with marked distinctness. The child's firsLpractice in the direction of future walking is found in the alternative kicking which is so essential to muscular development. fVierordt calls attention to the reprehensible confining of a child's legs which retards its muscular development.) Further progress is marked by raising the body and learning to sit, these efforts marking the beginning of the struggle with weights, which Sounau regards as the leading stimulus to movement-play. Learning to stand is an essential step preliminary to walking and causes a child the liveliest satisfaction. Coming now to actual walking we may be sure that when a child pushes forward on being held with the feet touching the floor he feels the stirrings of instinct. Froebel has well described the pleasure in success which makes learning to walk such a satisfaction. “The fact is well established,’ he says, “that walking, and especially the first steps, give the child pleasure merely a* a demonstration of his strength.” Almost as soon as the child has learned to preserve his equilibrium in ordinary walking he procedees to complicate the problem by trying to walk on curb stones, in a rut. on a beam or a narrow wall. Another form of self-imposed difficulty and consequent conversion of locomotion into play is the attempt to step into all the cracks in a pavement or floor or on certain figures in a carpet.

Walking soon develops into running which is a delight to the child. This

Digitized by CaOOQle
-72-

simple running soon loses its charm and is not much used later in play unti^ it is transformed into a contest and thus acquires a new and higher meaning. Yet there are many running games whose attraction consists in the difficulties to be overcome, and very rapid running is a delight m itself, throwing us into a sort of transport. Running down a smoo h slope is a diversion wnich easily tempts even grown people. Hopping and skipping are also to be classed with running plays. They belong in the same category with the vagaries of locomotion which have been pointed out, and any lively child finds it hard to dispense with them when out for a walk, much to the discomfort of its mother or older sister. Children begin to jump by leaping downward. Before the little experimentor has half-way learned to go down steps he will try to reach the ground by a jump from the last step. Soon something more difficult is undertaken. Psychologically this pleasure is derived not merely* from the agreeable flying motion, but from thestimulusof difficulty to be overcome and a feeling of pride in encountering risks.

This can be continued by many interesting citations.

Climbing is probably the outcome of a special instinct. The striking fact that a newborn infant is at once able to cling with his hands certainly points to this. The first attempts at climbing occur in the second year in conjunction with creeping and are usually efforts to go upstairs. Numberless accidents have resulted from the climbing upon chairs and tables, which is so indefatigably persisted in, and there are few plays which afford as much pleasure to older children as climbing trees. It is probable that, in spite of the danger of the situation, there is an instinctive feeling of security and comfort when they are cosily settled among the branches. That girls gladly participate in this supposedly masculine indulgence is noteworthy. Next in line Groos takes uj> the dance, the artistic form of locomotion. He assumes that the elementary forms of dancing are present in childhood, but the developed art belongs ta adults. The essential feature of the dance, the regulation of bodily movement by measured music, must be acquired.

To find the sources of pleasure in dancing we must go back to the common ground of satisfaction in obeying the impulse for motion, yet it is not easy to assign a general explanation for the peculiar charm of rhythmical movement. A short reference to gymnastic dances closes this part.

Next come a few remarks on artificial me’thods of moving the body, which are divided into two classes, those which are passive, and those employed in active locomotion. Among the passive device* are mentioned the cradle* the swing, the hammock, riding and driving. A long list of inventions, for the most part recreative, meet the demands for aids to active locomotion, notably appliances for rowing and the bicycle. Among ancient implements are mentioned stilts, snow shoes and skates.

The primitive impulse to extend the sphere of their power as far as possible leads men to the conquest and control of objects lying around them.

We can distinguish six d'fferent groups of movement-plays resulting from this impulse:	i,	Mere	hustling things about; 2, destructive or analytic pliy ;

3,	constructive or synthetic play; 4, plays of endurance; 5, throwing plays, and 6, catching plays.

1.	Hustling about of things, is a rather inelegant but expressive term by which we designate a kind of play that Delongs to early childhood. A child delights to plav with things that can be set in motion, takes pleasure in sh iking things, turning coffee mills, pulling out drawers, dabbling in water, tearing and crumpling paper, etc.

Digitized by v^ooQle
-73-

2.	Destructive movement-play. The simplest and earliest handling of external objects exhibits the fundamental principle which differentiates the forms of a conscious activity, showing them to be such as either make for division or concentration.

Play which separates or analyzes easily acquires a special character which allies it with the special instincts and converts it mto wild destructiveness.

The veriest infant shows its beginnings in his desire to tear paper, pull the heads off flowers, rummage in boxes, and the like; and as the child grows older he displays more clearly this analytic impulse —boys as a rule more than girls. They are constantly picking their toys to pieces, dissecting tools, weapons, clocks, etc.

3.	Constructive movement-play bears about the same relation to imitation that analytic play bears to fighting instinct. Pleasure in the work of our own hands, which takes a negative form in destructive sport, here becomes positive creation, the instinct for building, for uniting scattered elements into a new whole. Its simplest form is found in the child’s moulding new forms from some suitable material, their chief charm being their newness. Moist sand is heaped up or dug away, snow tunneled through or rolled into a great ball, sticks of wood piled, water collected in a pond. Such things are always going on where there are children. Arranging the same or similar objects in rows is a mere advanced kiod of constructiveness; closely connected to this is the disposition to make collections.

4.	Playful Exercise and Endurance. The play we have been considering gains a further charm when difficulties are associated with it, and it becomes more like fighting play. When Strumpell’s little daughter had learned to grasp easily she was no longer satisfied with holding ordinary things, but took to picking up objects so small as to be difficult to take hold of. Children seem to enjoy overcoming difficulties. There are all sorts of puzzles which indulge this fancy, such as untying apparently fast knots with a single jerk, disentangling intertwined rings, taking balls or rings off an endless cord, etc. It may be of interest to note that E. v. Hartman in his book on Play classes much of women’s fancy work with such play, inasmuch as it does not possess artistic value, and its intrinsic worth is out of all proportion to the effort expended.

5.	Throwing Plays. Whereas the forms of movement play we have, so far, been considering are more or less connected, throwing is regarded by many as a special instinct. When monkeys get excited they throw anything they can get hold of; and a five-year-old idiot whose brain structure was much like that of a monkey did the same thing when he was teased. In any case, throwing is certainly an interesting phenomenon, which, if monkeys did not indulge in it, we should claim a prerogative of the human race. Sigismund gives us some luminous remarks on the biological and psychological significance of such play. “All children like to throw and are often blamed for it very unjustly,says he. “We should remember that although some window panes may be endangered by such play, it lays the foundation of man’s supremacy over the other animals, and that by means of it muscles are gradually devoloped and strengthened. Even the yearling picks up pebbles aud likes to roll them. Older children are engrossed in testing the force and directness of aim. They are trying the power of will over matter.” This is the correct designation of the peculiar satisfaction derived lrora throwing.

We distinguish several kinds of throwing plays which may be briefly characterized as follows:

Digitized by ^.ooQle
a,	Simple throwing, upward, downward, or horizontally; b, propulsion by means of a blow; c, rolling, spinning, shoving, skipping; d, throwing at a target.

а.	Downward throwing is the most natural movement ofc the kind to a child. To send to)S, spoons, trays and books rattling, crashing and slamming on the floor is a pastime which children will keep up as long as they dare. Older children enjoy throwing things down from a tower or bridge. The fascination of sending stones over a precifice appeals to adults as well.

. b. Under the head of throwing by means of a stroke or blow come many of our mo^t interesting ball games where the ball is struck with the hand or by a racket club or bat. Football also comes under this head.

c.	In the division of rolling, spinning, shoving and skipping foreign bodies are included such plays as ten pins, billiards, the rolling of hoops, the sp’nr.ing of tops, ice curling, skipping stones over the surface of water.

d.	Throwing at a mark. If throwing is an inherited impulse, then it must belong to the fighting instincts since it gives a man the powpr to slay his enemy or his prey without actual contact with either. However that may be, th» owing at a mark mu't have originated in such hostile use of the ability to throw, and it is significant that by far the most numerous and popular games require a target and belong essentially to the male. In many games it is the object to hit a comrade with a ball, in others a swinging or moving object is aimed at; quoits and marbles come under this head.

б.	Catching is the last division under Playful Use of the Motor Appartus. Catching and holding moving objects is the direct opposite of throwing. It is with difficulty that children learn to catch. Many attempts are required before the art is acquired of controlling the muscular innervation to meet the still moving object. For this play the ball is the most suitable and perfect plaything and the games played with it are innumerable.

Group III. Playful Use of the Higher Mental Powers. Having treated of the sensor and motor aspects of playful experimentation, Groos now proceeds to examine its value to higher mental life. The influence of experimentation is felt in the activity of intellect, feeling, and will alike. Of course, all play is of great importance to the whole mental make up since it acts in all directions, sharpening the intellect, exercising the will, and furnishing the occasion for the discharge of motion. In this division Groos investigates in how far these powers of the mind are themselves the subjects of experimental play, he examines and presents cases where these capacities are directly experimented with. In turn he examines memory, imagination, attention, and reason.

1.	Memory is subdivided into recognition, and reflective memory; Imagination into playful illusion, and playful transformation of memory content.

Next in line experimentation with the feelings is taken up, with its divisions of physical pain; mental suffering; surprise, and fear.

Speaking of fear, Groos says, “that even fear, the most abject of all affections, may become the object of playful experimentation is one of the riddles of soul-life. Here, too, we can only apply the theory of pleasure in intense stimulus to that of divided consciousness, The last chapter of this part deals with Experimentation with the Will.

Part II treats of the Playful Exercise of Impulses of the second or Socionomic Order, with its four divisions of I, Fighting Play; II, Love Play; III, Imitative Play, and IV., Social Play.

Digitized by CjOOQle
Group I. 1. Direct Fighting Play. Any one who takes the hand of a two-year old child and strikes himself with it, pretending to be much hurt, can not doubt after seeing the delight displayed by the little creature, the pleasurable effect of the discharge of this impulse so deeply seated in human nature. Yet the fighting instinct seems to be comparatively late in assuming the form of regular independent playful contests. Unprovoked tussling merely.for the fun of the thing seldom appears earlier than the third year.

It is interesting to note what Groos says of these fighting plays of boys approaching adolescence. A great difference is observable in the tussling of boys as they near maturity. While the games of six-year-olds are uniformly harmless, and proceed amid laughter and fun, as the age of puperty approaches fighting play assumes a more serious character, and even when only play is intended the whole bearing of the participants is greatly modified. Genuine make-believe, the innocent measuring of strength, is no longer practiced; the youth desires to prove that he can play with danger too; he assumes an offensive and boastful air, and regards each of his contemporaries as a rival. The inward restlessness which characterizes this time of live is directed by instinct toward belligerence, and every opportunity to fight is welcomed.

2.	Direct mental contests. The impulse to opposition is a quality which is usually regarded as a very unpleasant disposition of mind, but which is in reality, when kept within proper bounds, the very leaven of human life. Children early show a playful as well as earnest resistance to authority. While Sully is right when he says that an attitute of hostility to law on the part of the child would make education impossible, still he admits that the best children—from a biological standpoint—'have “most of the rebel” in them. Under intellectual contests are mentioned the solution of riddles, oratorial contests, debates, chess and some card games.

Next are discussed Physical and Mental Rivalry, the Destructive Impulse, Teasing, Enjoyment of the Comic, Hunting Play, Witnessing Fights and Fighting Plays and lastly The Tragic.

Group II deals with Love Play and its divisions of 1, Natural Courtship Play; 2, Love Play in Art, and 3, Sex in the Comic.

In Group III Imitative Play is discussed with the 1, Playful imitation of simple movements a, Optical percepts and b, Playful imitation of accoustic percepts; 2, Dramatic imitation in play; 3, Plastic or constructive imitative play, and 4, Inner imitation.

Group IV takes up Social Plays which are discussed from the standpoint of the need of bodily association or the herding instinct. It is shown that it is wrong if the child is introduced tov> early to a wider circle; that the strong stimulus of social life tends to overshadow and interfere with the development of family life. Just as with children who are kept too much at home, overweening family feelings interfere with this progress in society and hamper them through life, so, on the other hand, too much society weakens the parental relations. There should be a certain equilibrium of influence to supply the most favorable conditions in the struggle for existence. There can be no doubt

Digitized by ^.ooQle
-76-

of the value of social games in preparing children for later life. The demand for identification with some social group gives satisfaction, and the satisfaction rests on the broad foundation underlying other instincts. The child as soon as it is old enough to make the acquaintance of other children, is filled with eager desire to be wherever his comrades are assembled for whatever purpose.

Speaking of the child's behavior with his playmates, Groos calls attention to his voluntary subordination, saying: “The blind obedience accorded to the leader of a little gang is calculated to fill parents and teachers with envy.” He also calls attention to the fact that play is instrumental in teaching children submission to law as well as to a leader. Notice is then taken of the social cravings of adults which show themselves in banquets, dances, five-o’clock teas and clubs for all kinds of activities, proving the need felt by civilized man to form within the limits of their more extended social sphere smaller circles which, by their exclusiveness, enhance the feeling of sympathy.

In part III Groos developes his theory of play. Having reviewed, he says, the extensive field of play, the task now remains of collecting the results and important conclusions thence resulting. To this end the con-, cept of play must be viewed from different standpoints: en the one hand that of physiology, biology and psychology, and on the other a more definitely aesthetic, sociological, and pedagogical view.

1.	The physiological standpoint. In the attempt to find a common sense explanation of play we are confronted by three distinct views. The first says: When a man is “quite fit” and does not know just what to do with his strength, he begins to sing and shout, to dance and caper, to tease and scuffle. The second view is diametrically opposed to this view, it regards play in the light of an opportuntiy afforded for the relaxation and recreation of exhausted powers. The third emphasizes the teleological significance of play, recognizing its great importance in the physical and mental development of the individual, that it is, in short, preparatory to the tasks of life.

2.	The biological standpoint. In considering play from a biological standpoint we find two views. The first is a genetic explanation of play and the second is an appraisal of its biological value-

3.	The psychological standpoint. Pleasure derived from play is the most universal of all the psychological accompaniments* of plav.

4.	The aesthetic standpoint. The following points present themselves as the most general results of aesthetic enjoyment. All sense organs display numerous impulses to activity; enjoyment of the response to stimuli is a universal basis of play. Now, since every aesthetic pleasure (except the appreciation of poetry) is connected with sense-perception, we find in it a genuine source of enjoyment.

5.	The socio’ogical standpoint. When we reflect on the unavoidable limitations and mechanical routine of a regular calling we see how valuable is the cheering and humanizing effect of play, both physical and mental, and especially of those games which are calculated to strengthen the social tie.

6.	The last division of the book treats of the pedagogical standpoint. The fact that the natural school of play affords a necessary

j
-77-

conipleraent to pedagogics was recognized by educators of old. There are two ways of regarding the relation of play to education. Instruction may take the form of playful activity, or, on the other hand, play may be converted into systematic teaching. (Other things being equal, it is most natural and advantageous to distinguish clearly between play and study work. With civilized peoples usage to earnest, persistent, effort is an indispensible condition of success in the struggle of life. Yet this distinction should not be so stringent as to exclude entirely the play impulses.) Even the most serious work may include a certain playfulness, especially when enjoyment of being a cause and of conquest are prominent. In the gymnastic games of adults play often approaches work, and work may become like play when its real aim is superseded by enjoyment of the activity itself. And it can hardly be doubted that joy in one’s work is the highest and noblest form of work.

How far may a teacher direct play to pedagogic ends without destroying its freedom and genuineness t Three important tasks lie in this direction which are imperative—-namely, general incitation to play, encouragement of what is good and useful, and discouragement of injurious and improper forms of play. Even animals teach their young how to play, and it would be unnatural for parents to be unconcerned about their children’s games. Love toward young and helpless creatures manifests itself everywhere. A mother not only submits to their tumbling all over her and pulling her as their movement and lighting instinct impel them to do, but she encourages them to active play. His parents are a child’s natural playmates for the first years of life. During school life it is, of course, not necessary for a teacher to join in the games of the merry urchins out of doors, yet in the lower grades especially it is a furtunate circumstance if the teacher possesses the faculty of becoming a child again with the children in their plays and walks.

This opens the way for the second duty of the child’s instructor-directing his play toward what is good and useful. As the population of our cities grows more crowded the need for intelligent direction is becoming evident. City children grow up under unnatural conditions, and opportunities for health producing movement play should be provided and efforts made to introduce the most useful and attractive gymnastic games to children. The growing interest of all classes in such efforts encourages the hope that the damaging consequences of our modern methods of living may be effectually counteracted in this way.

As to the positive ethical development of the child by play, we may premise that play in itself contributes materially to the establishment of ethical individuality. This ethical individuality is developed only in the give and take of social intercourse which with children is found almost entirely in play. Speaking of the development of ethical character by play, Reischle asks, “How can individual qualities be so well brought out and developed as in the free, untrammeled use of all one’s powers? Here are brought into contact contemplative, quiet natures with active, forceful ones, the stubborn with the pliant will. Play reveals the breadth or limitation of a child’s horizon, the independence of his character, or his need of support and direction.”

Much more obvious is the educational value of the negative task,

Digitized by CjOOQle
-78-

the third, which consists in the avoidance of what is evil, and the effort to check wrong tendencies. The struggle with open iniquity goes hand in hand with avoiding more insidious moral danger. First, the child should not play too much. If the instructor insists on rest before exhaustion ensues he is imposing a proper restriction which is valuable to ethical education, for at this time the moral law of temperance can be made most impressive to the child. Second, play which has become, or threatens to become, violent may be restrained to proper bounds, and the important ethical • lesson of self-control be inculcated. Third, it may be required that everything dangerous to life or health shall be carefully regulated. Here the teacher must avoid over-anxiety, for courage, which is itself of at least equal ethical value, can only be developed in the growing character by the encounter of actual risks and learning to meet them with self-reliance. Fourth, guardians must sometimes interfere when fighting impulses are manifested in a rude or ill-natured manner, as it is apt to be in the various forms of teasing. When children have fallen under the power of a bad, tyrannous, or low-minded leader, they should be interfered with, and if possible by some method which will show up the unworthy leader in his true colors. Fifth, and finally, it should be emphasized that the beautiful task of play, the development of the individual to full manhood or womanhood by means of an all-round exercise of his or her capacities, is retarded if it is restricted to only one particular form of play. Even the noble gift of imagination may from overindulgence degenerate into a deadly poison.

ADDRESS OF PRESIDENT JOS. B. MACCABE, DELIVERED AT THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMATEUR ATHLETIC UNION OF THE UNITED STATES.

Held at the Grand Union Hotel, New York, November aoth, 1905.

(Concluded.)

INCOMPETENT OFFICIALS.

Properly conducted athletic meets are a misnomer unless the officials are competent. In other words, an official should be intelligent, courageous and absolutely impartial. The A. A. U. unifies the methods and rules for competition throughout the country, creates and maintains the standards of conducting each event, makes the comparisons of records of different sections possible, registers all records made according to the rules and rejects those unfairly made, protects its members and punishes the tricksters, promotes amateur sports and discriminates between the amateur and the professional.

Now, why not go farther, and give added protection to the competing athlete by requiring that all officials shall be competent? I was greatly impressed with an article by Mr. V. V. Roseboro. the physical director of the Syracuse Y. M. C. A., who, in a very commendatory article of the A. A. U., among other good things, said:	“We have a

normal class in which young men are, among other things, trained to act as officials. We will at any time gladly furnish any number of helpers for an amateur athletic meet.”

Digitized by

J
-79-

EVILS THAT MENACE AMATEUR ATHLETIC SPORT.

What seems to have created a profound sensation in the world of sport are the alleged revelations of Arthur F. Duffev, and, apparently, of his own free will and accord. Duffev, even now, does not pretend to be a professional, simply claiming to have received excessive expense money. This admission, even, is enough to convict him, for the A. A. (J. law is simple enough on this score and leaves no room for doubt or misinterpretation in the mind of any honest athlete. The man who deliberately accepts excessive expense money is a professional of the worst type, and the seal of amateur condemnation should be placed upon him forever. In the case of Duffey it is recommended that all mention of him be expunged from the records of the A. A. U., commencing from the day when he admits having received excessive expense money. It is also recommended that further legislation be enacted, to the end that the paying of expense money may be regulated in a more systematic manner, and, if possible, that a limit to such payments, by clubs only, be established.

Another evil which demands immediate regulation is the training table and the so-called training rendez-vous, where sometimes better loafers then athletes are created. Criticism has also been made of certain organizations because of the holding of professional and amateur games at the same meet. The advisability of discontinuing this practice is submitted to your judgment with the urgent request for action which will eliminate the evils, if evils they be, incident to such conditions.

A NATIONAL INTERSCHOLASTIC ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION.

A movement which cannot help but be far-reaching in athletic importance is the proposed organization of a national interscholastic amateur athletic association. The N. E. Interscholastic Association has been at work upon a movement of this kind for several months and,

I am informed, is about to launch the same. It is the part of good judgment for the A. A. U. to lend every possible assistance to any such good movement, and it is hoped that the several district associations will take up the matter and accord it every possible means of support.

Twelve months ago you honored me with the office of president. At that time I expressed myself with reference to the distinguished honor, and after twelve months’ service I beg leave to assure you that it is an honor any American may feel proud to have conferred on him. That the work requires time, patience and much thought is true, but the many pleasures incideut thereto more than offset the few annoyances.

I cannot refrain, before closing, from paying an earnest tribute to the services of Secretary Sullivan. His is a task that would appall all but the bravest. To him I desire to publicly express my thanks for the many courtesies and warm and sympathetic support he has always given me, and on behalf of every sportsman express the hope that he may be spared for many, many years to the cause he loves so well and has so devotedly served. My thanks also are due the gentlemen of the Board of Governeurs, who, though called many times, were never found wanting.

Digitized by CjOOQle
Mind and body

AVViiy IllXU WUI,	FREIDENKER	PUBLISHING CO.

8ab*criptlon Price, $1.00 per Year.	3hCU.-w<cn Tree, Wleconeln..

tar Address all business letters to FREIDENKER PUBLISHING CO., c. o. Herold Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis Address all editorial correspondence to F. PFISTER, M. D., 760 3d St., Milwaukee, Wis.

Entered at the Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

FOR A CLEAN GYMNASIUM.

IN an article entitled “Hygiene of the Physical Department” Dr. George J. Fischer, Editor of “Physical Training,” the official monthly magazine of the Y. M. C. A. Physical Directors Society, writes very interestingly on this timely subject. His first sentence: “It were better if some gymnasiums had never been constructed,” is not at all an exaggeration. We agree with the writer that basement gymnasia are dark, damp and dingy and should not be allowed to exist. Wherever a sufficient amount of sunlight is not provided that place can never be fit for gymnastic exercises. Cleanliness of the floor, apparatus and, most of all, of the mats is something that we do not see enforced enough.

Dr. Fischer’s article covers the field so thoroughly that we cannot do better than print it in full in our next issue.

No other subject is more important in the whole realm of physical education.

If parents persistently refused to send their children to filthy, dusty or basement gymnasia things would rapidly be changed.

The authorities governing schools and gymnasia must be told in plain language what health resort the gymnasium must be if it is to be fit for patronage. It is not the most luxuriously appointed, but the cleanest place that is to be given preference.

The gymnasium ought to be kept as spotless as your kitchen, your bed room or your sitting room; it ought to be the cleanest place in the community.

We trust that our readers without any further explanation on our part know well enough the reason why this should be so, and that they will do all in their power to bring about desired changes.

We congratulate Dr. Fischer for the good start he has made.

NOTES AND REMARKS.

—We are in receipt of the interesting program of the closing exercises of the Normal Department of “The Burnham School for Physical Education“ in Milwaukee, which took place April 25th, 1906.

The following is the list of the graduates:

Louise Chaote Campbell, Hartland, Wis. Grace Janet Dodge, Washington, D. C. Mabel Louise Harrington, Elkhorn, Wis. Jessie Louise Haberkorn, Fort Wayne, Ind. Amy Lee, Burlington, Iowa.

M. Geraldine Markev, Milwaukee, Wis. Jessie Allen Plvmptou, Hartford,Conn. Cecelia Agnes Snyder, Waukesha, Wis. Frieda Trieschmann. Milwaukee, Wis. Olive Childs Ward, Waukesha, YVis.

Digitized by CjOOQle
—81—

—Mass exhibitions seem to be “the thing” at this time of the year. The combined Chicago Turn-Vereine held such an affair at the Auditorium for the benefit of the San Francisco sufferers and it was a huge success.

The University of Pennsylvania held what was termed a mass-demonstration, the details of which we print elsewhere. The Philadelphia Press of May oth contains an imposing picture of boxing exercises simultaneously performed by 400 students of the University.

ARMY ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION.

BULLETIN NO. 1.

INTERCOLLEGIATE FENCING TOURNAMENT.

West Point, N. Y., March 26, 1906.

The Thirteenth Annual Intercollegiate Tournament, the fifth since the Army’s participation, was held in New York on March 16th and 17th, 1906, and for the fourth time the Army succeeded in winning the championship trophy and the individual honors.

The training for this event began on November 1st, 1905, and the policy which has resulted in giving the army such prominence in this sport was consistently carried out. The number of cadets trying for a place on the squad was greater than ever before, but owing to the lack of adequate facilities it was impossible to continue more than twenty cadets on the squad. With adequate facilities at least double that number might have received the benefits of this special training as the staff of instructors has been increased.

The following cadets composed the squad: Williford, '06, captain; Matthews, ’<)*>, manager; Humphreys, F. E., ’06; Holabird, '07; Pfeil, ’07; Dickinson, '08; Ayers, ’08; Sneed, A. L.,’08; Carroll, ’09; Chase, ’09; Farman, ’09; Greble, ’09; Hardin, ’09; Mills, ’09; Sears, ’09, and Smith, ’09.

The team which was composed of Williford, Humphreys and Dickinson, with Ayers as substitute, was selected in February.

During February the following dual events were held at West Point, and in all of them the Army won: Army 7, Pennsylvania, 1; Army 8, Yale 1; Army 8, Princeton 1; Army 6, Columbia 3.

Seven members of the squad fenced the experts of the New York Turn Verein informally on February 22d. Efforts were also made to have teams from the Fencers and Athletic Clubs meet the cadets but without success.

As the season advanced it was evident that the competition for the intercollegiate championship would be more hotly contested than ever before. Teams representing Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Navy, Cornell, Princeton and Pennsylvania were entered. A week before the competition Yale withdrew, leaving seven teams. Of these Harvard, with a team of graduates, one an ex-Cornell man who had tried for the national championship two years ago, looked most formidable. Columbia, who had defeated the Navy, looked very strong, while the Navy can always be counted upon to be amongst the leaders. Pennsylvania was not considered strong, but when she entered a team composed of her most experienced fencer and two Frenchmen, one ol whom was an old fencer, not only in point of years but also in experience, she became a factor of the greatest consideration. In order to cutdown the numberof bouts it was decided to eliminate the two teams making the lowest score in a qualifying round. This consisted in having one man from every team fence one from every other team. Lots were drawn and those who drew A fenced the A men of each team; B and C doing the same. Thus each team fenced 18 bouts, six per man. At the end of this qualifying round the teams ranked as follows: Army, Columbia, Navy, Cornell, Harvard and Pennsylvania tied, and Princeton. To determine who should fall out with Princeton, Harvard and Pennsylvania “fenced off’ and the latter lost. With these teams eliminated the match proper began. It soon became apparent that the Army unquestionably had the strongest team, and the lead it had taken at the beginning was constantly increased until the next team at the end

4

Digitized by Google
—82—

of the match was eight bouts behind; a showing equalled only by the Army team of 1904.

The following are the team scores:

Army............................  won	31	lost	11= 738

Harvard.......................... “	23	“	19=547

Navy............................. “	22	“	20=.525

Columbia.......................    *4	19	“	23=.452

Cornell.......................... “	16	“	26=.382

The decisiveness of the Army’s victory is borne out by the following scores: Army 6,	Harvard 3.	Army 6, Cornell 3.

Army 7,	Navy 2.	Army 2, Pennsylvania	1.

Army 7,	Columbia 2.	Army 3, Princeton 0.

Dichraan, the Navy’s star fencer, was unable to finish the match owing to illness, but his substitute, Brandt, did such splendid work that at best Dich-tn an might have improved the Navy’s chance of winning second place. The score of the Navy and Army’s bouts was not affected by Dichraan’s absence as his substitute won the onlv two bouts Dichman had to fence with the Army.

The work of Williford and Dickinson was of a decidedly high order, and it was only a question which of the two would make the better score. At the end of the match they were tied for the individual championship, each having won 12 and lost 2. Their combined scores, 24, being sufficient to win the trophy. Humphreys hardly did himself justice, winning only half of his bouts. He was, however, as superior to any third man of any team, as Williford and Dickinson were to the first and second. The scores of the three best fencers outside of the Army team, Bowman and Tvng of Harvard, and Lage of Columbia, aggregated 28 against the Army’s 31.

Since the Army’s participation in these contests a really remarkable record has been established. Four out of five times she won the championship and the Only time she lost it was a question of a single touch. In these five years five cadets have won or tied for the individual championship; and in all that time not a single dual meet has been lost. This is not the result of chance or luck, but of hard, grinding, conscientious work, stretched over a period of four and one-half months. Too much praise cannot be bestowed upon the voung men who take up fencing for the purpose of upholding the Army’s record, and they are worthy of every consideration and encouragement. The gallery which makes other sports so popular is entirely absent in fencing, and the game on that account does not receive the recognition and encouragement to which it is entitled ; and yet it cannot be denied that it requires more skill, more self-control and self-reliance, a keener sense of perception and action, all of which is gained at a greater sacrifice, than any other sport.

Before closing I desire to express my appreciation for the splendid work done by Mr. Vauthier and Lieut. Honeycutt in developing the team. Both were untiring in their efforts and to them in a very great degree is due the success of the team. To Lieut. Glade I am indebted for valuable assistance, not only because of the part he took in the development of the team, but for his council and advice. Championship teams are not the product of one year’s efforts, and to some one falls the duty of weeding out and then hammering the selected raw material into such a shape that the finished product may be produced in the shortest time. In this duty I was most ably assisted by Mr. Dohs, and I take pleasure in expressing my appreciation of his efforts. Last, but by no means least, my thanks are due to the members of the squad. No squad was ever more faithful in the discharge of every demand made upon it. It is this spirit more than anything else that insures success.

The outlook for next year is bright. Dickinson has two more years and before he graduates he should develop into another Honeycutt. In Avers, Hola-bird, and in some of the other members of the Third and Fourth Classes, we have material for a team that if it does not win will at least give a good account of itself.

Holabird, ’07, was elected captain, and Pfeil, ’07, manager for 1907.

Very respectfully,

H.	J. Koehler, Captain, U. S Army, Representative for General Athletics and Fencing.

Digitized by Tooele
—83—

PHYSICAL POWER*

By PROF. DR. OTTO BAUMGARTEN, Kiel, Germany.

Translated by C. L. S.

IT is not without good reason that I assign to physical power the leading place among the ideal aims of education. It seems to me that, generally speaking, we are declining in physical power although the average longevity is rising. Frequently, when visiting the houses of friends I am sized with fear:	What	will	the nation do with the

descendants of so many weaklings? Again, taking it individually, I am moved by the memory of all the suffering I have seen; where the keenest mental capacity and zeal and zest were made ineffective by lack of vital power. Where do we find an intellectual home without a neurasthenic? Soon there will be left no old school moralist that dis-tainfully was scorning and scoffing at the phrase of “weak nerves or of no nerves at all!” Nervous exhaustion should have been placed on the list of cultural advancements of the 19th century.

How many different functional disturbances does the single term nervous exhaustion imply? Even where the results do not terminate in such pathological abnormalities as require a special treatment, they create that wearying irritability manifesting itself in the social intercourse with fellow men and making it exceedingly onerous. They also create unfriendly feelings without any substantial cause, thus wasting the energy and power of resistance necessary to be put in the field when real enemies of human happiness are to be encountered. Perhaps the most important consequence of nervous weakness is the lack of inner balance. Not that we should consider a comfortable, self-satisfied pblegma as our ideal, that is to say, that we ought to maintain a never to be disturbed equilibrium in all battles and controversies, but rather should the soul return to itself and to the lawfulness of its inner life despite all disturbances and effects from impressions and demands of the outer world; and its soul should have within itself a counterbalance which no changes in the surrounding of our irritable and active life can disturb; such a status may serve us as an ideal aim.

How this balance does depend upon the stability of nerve life! How much willpower must many a person apply to establish this balance willpower that might have been expended upon the immediate reaction to the stimuli and its transmission into action.

Clearness and freshness of appearance, a natural and healthy conception and the responsive action which we so admire in the intellectual self-composed woman, are the natural results of unshaken nerve power.

We must not, however, underestimate the importance of muscular power. Not a small portion of fainting and breakdowns of our race is due to muscular weakness. Lack of endurance, early fatigue and also the wide spread horror against muscular activity among mental workers,

* The above is only a small extract of an exceedingly interesting lecture, which may be found in full in the September issue of “KGrper and Geist.” It was delivered before a Women’s Progressive Club and is the first of a series of lectures.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-84-

in my opinion, are the causes of muscular weakness. We have grown accustomed to giving way to fatigue on the slightest exertion.

I believe that we should less easily excuse, less frequently smile at, but more often frown upon bodily and mental awkwardness and lack of grace. In some instances, it is true, the Graces were absent at the birth, of some persons and it remains an open question whether or not gymnastics can wholly correct such deficiencies. But with the majority of awkward, clumsy and ungraceful people the actual fault lies either in the undeveloped muscle power or in the faulty, onesided over-development, carried to the extent of massiveness and colossal muscle power.

To the qualities which compose our ideal ot human beauty belongs-the command over bodily and mental power, which function playingly and do not permit the left hand to know what the right one does.

I believe that Praxedis would have sufficient cause to lament to-day our lack of grace and expressiveness by movement.

We don’t appreciate enough the pleasure experienced whenever our muscles accomplish something great in carrying or lifting, in short, of any activity in general. Should we not be able to work through one night safely without fear of serious results? Should we not, in carrying out a great task, endure hardship and finish it in spite of headache and gastric discomfort, if necessary? Is not a failure caused by the insufficiency of physical power in a great moment a real disgrace? “The god who created iron did not want cowards but men. Can we really imagine any ideal human being void of the feeling of pleasure of activity? True, we can amuse ourselves over a Fallstaff, over an indolent lazy mass of flesh. But here worship takes the place of indolence. It is sufficiently repulsive to see a person, especially an effeminate person, lazily squirm about before it is ready to perform a task. We should be still more impatient toward indolence of the mind, which is traceable to lack of activityof the muscles.

HIGH SCHOOL PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR GIRLS

gMt $t. $aui«, pita.

The Yeatman High School has a gymnasium with floor space 80 by 40 feet. The equipment is quite complete for its purpose. Hand apparatus includes wooden and iron wands, one pound wooden dumb-bells, and one pound indian clubs in number sufficient for classes of fifty pupils. Heavy apparatus includes stationary and swinging poles, double swinging rings and traveling rings, swinging ladders and giant-stride; ladders adjustable to the vertical, oblique, or horizontal positions; horizontal bars, parallels, horses and bucks; and jumping stands. There are also various kinds and sizes of balls for gaming purposes.

The dressing room are equipped with lockers and shower baths.

A track in rear of the school supplies the place for out-of-door lessons in suitable weather.

The students have two gymnasium periods weekly. At each end of a period seven minutes are given for dressing. The required costume for the physical exercise is the regulation gymnasium suit and shoes.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-85-

The class lesson is planned according to the German Day’s Order: — running, tactics, tree-work (alternating with wands, dumb-bells, and clubs), jumping, apparatus work, stepping exercises, and gaming.

The principal of the school, by his interest and effort in arrangement of programs, has this year made possible a system of grading in our physical education which will in time become more advanced than is practicable in this first year of the arrangement. Primarily the pupils are assigned to classes according to school grade, secondarily according to ability.

A small card giving name, age, weight, lung capacity, and a record of general physical condition, with recommendation of any special treatment necessary, is filed for each girl, and entries made thereon twice yearly.

For the girls in the first year we have running, and tactics of the individual, attention given to execution; free-work in two part combination-sequences in the same direction; standing-broad, standing-deep, and standing-high jumps in all directions; apparatus exercises in hangstanding, rest-standing, free-resting, and free-hanging on stationary and swinging apparatus; simple combinations in stepping exercises; games with balls, handling balls of different size and weight, methods of throwing and catching, bounding and batting. In the second year there is a continuation of the first year’s work, with running for increased lengths of time; and straddle jumping, broad, deep, and high in all directions. In the second and third years special attention is given to indoor athletic work, standing and running jumps and relay racing. The first annual indoor meet for the girls of the Yeatman High School was held in the gymnasium, May 2nd after school, and the girls of the second and third years in good standing in their other work were allowed to compete. Becords made were as follows:—standing-broad 6 ft. 1 in., running-broad 9 ft. 11% in., standing-high 35 in., running-high 47 in., hop-skip-and jump 26 ft. 7 in., pole climbing 14 ft. in 5 3/5 seconds. The judges in this meet were students from the Teachers’ College connected with the ^public school system.

In the third year we have combination exercises in running, tactics of the rank and column, in free and hand apparatus work, combination sequences in same and opposite directions, resting apparatus for vaulting, stepping exercises combined with arm and body movements, organized games.

In the fourth year advanced class work, drills in combination sequences in same, opposite, and different directions; and dancing drills.

A normal preparatory course for those who purpose to attend the Teachers’ College covers in theory and practice parts of the above course in detail.

Our work is designed to develop the attention, re-action, co-ordination and judgement, also a sense of accuracy and order, as well as muscular ability and a healthy activity of the vital functions; to improve the habitual positions, to engender control and ease in movement, and to most truly recreate in the sense that activities whose stimuli call for motor

Digitized by CjOOQle
-86-

as well as mental expression are of very different nature from those of the class room and therefore well adapted to relieve, rest, and invigorate.

Ethel R. Weeden,

Teachers* College, and Yeatman High School,

Director of Physical Training for Girls.

A SOUVENIR OF THE LAST TURNFEST.

The Executive of the North American Gymnastic Union has just issued an elegant souvenir of the last national gymnastic festival held in Indianapolis last summer.

Excepting a few pages devoted to a short description of the festival the book of sixty-four pages contains only pictures of every feature of this greatest festival in the history of the organization. Illustrations of the mass exercises, the parade with its floats, the statues, the model exercises in all their endless variety of movements, the timing machines and sprinters, the camp with its amusements, the groups of veterans and judges, and other pictures too numerous to mention make this publication a souvenir certain to be highly prized not only by all visitors present during that festival, but by all persons interested in gymnastics. The edition has been limited to one thousand copies at one dollar each. Orders may be sent to Mr. Peter Scherer, Box 248, Indianapolis, Ind.

THE BREATHING EXERCISE.

Whatever will increase the breathing capacity will improve the health, and the following exercise, if done properly, in the fresh air, and with clothing loosely worn, so as to enable you to breathe deeply, is one of the best known to increase the interior size of the lung-room. Hold head up, shoulders back, chest out, inflate the lungs slowly, through the nose, until they are brimful; hold until you have counted ten without opening your lips; exhale quickly till your lungs are nearly empty of the bad air as it is possible to get them. Repeat same exercise, trying to hold the lungs full while counting twenty. Try it again, and see if you can hold your breath half a minute. Finish up with three or four deep, long-drawn inspirations. One of the best times for taking this exercise is when you are going to and from your work or studies. Hold your breath while walking ten steps; then twenty, etc. The advantage of being in the open air and sunshine is that the air is Iresher than is generally found in-doors. Take this medicine three times a day, either before or after meals. If taken after, it will be found to greatly help digestion. If this exercise should make you dizzy at first, take it in small doses until your blood can stand the stimulation of its purifier.—Exchange.

Here is a letter that was received a few days ago by a prominent firm of bicycle dealers:

deer Surs. I live on my farm near Hamilton Kansas and am 57 years old and a little Sporta. My neffew in Indiana bot hisself a new bissikle, and sent me hos old one by frate, and Ive learned to rid sume. Its a pile of fun, but ray bisikle jolts considerable. A feller coin along yestiddy with a bissikle that had holler injun rubber tires stuffed with wind. He let me try hissen and mi, it run like a kushen. He told me you sell injun rubber jest the same as hissen ? Mine is all iron wheels. Do you punch the holler hole through the injun rubber, or will I have to do it myself? How do you stick the ends together after you get it done? If your injun rubber is already holler will it come any cheaper empty? I can get all the wind I want out here in Kansas free.

P.	S. How much do you charge for the doodad you stuff the wind into the rubber with and where do you start ?

Digitized by LjOOQle
mtWBMl

GYMNASIUM, UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA.

-89-

IN THE GYMNASIUM.

By Dr. ROBERT NOHR, Supervisor Physical Culture, Fort Wayne, Ind., Public Schools.

f Continued. ^

A CLASS DRILL, division work on. the apparatus and closing with the game" Foot-in-the-ring.” As a preliminary run about three minutes. Gymnastic tactics.

After taking dumbbells march forw\ in a flank line and form ranks of fours or sixes by turning 1. face, march down the center to location for drill and 1. about face so that the shorter members stand in front. Open order sidew. from the center to full distance.

DUMBBELL DRILL.

Arms at sides, knuckles turned backw.—

1.	a ) Raise 1. knee forw. and flex 1. forearm upon the arm (upper arm to remain at side)—1 ! Pos.—2! Same r.—3! Pos.—4! b) Bend knees and flex both forearms upon the arms—1! Pos.—2! Turn knuckles outw. to natural pos.

2.	a) Place dumbbells on shoulders (knuckles upw., elbows point; outw. and height of shoulders)—1! Bend trunk forw. and stretch arms forw. (knuckles outw.)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! b) As a, but bend trunk backw. and stretch arms upw. (knuckles outw.)—1, 4!

In front leaning rest.—

3.	Squat rest 1. and raise 1. arm forw. (arm in line with trunk)—1 !

Pos.—2! Same r.—3, 4! Pos.—stand!

4.	Raise 1. leg and arms forw.—1 ! Move 1. leg sidew. and arms outw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1,4! Alternately—1, 8!

5.	Jump to stride pos. outw. and raise dumbbells over shoulders (knuckles turned backw., elbows point outw. on a level with shoulders and back as far as possible)—1! Turn trunk to the 1. and stretch arms outw. (knuckles backw.)—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1, 4! Alternately—1, 8!

In place—rest! Or some variety of tactics.

Pos.—stand!

6.	Stride pos. forw. 1. and raise arms forw.—1! Kneel on r. knee and move arms outw.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1,4! Alternately—1, 8!

7.	Stride pos. sidew. 1. and raise arms outw. (knuckles backw.)—1! Bend trunk sidew. 1., move arms overh. and meet dumbbells—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.—1,4! Alternately—1, 8!

8.	Lunge sidew. 1. and raise dumbbells over shoulders (knuckles turned backw.)—1! R. face on heels change kneebending, move arms upw., then lower outw. (downw.), the 1. arm to move to lorw. upw. obi., the r. backw. downw. obi.—2! As 1—3! Pos.—4! Same r.— 1, 4! Alternately—1, 8!

9.	Jump upw., spread legs wide sidew., raise arms outw. overh., meet dumbbells and return to starting pos. in slow rhythm or by command six or eight times.

Digitized by CaOOQle
-90-

10.	Breathing exercise.—Inhale slowly and raise arms forw. overh. in four counts; exhale and lower arms forw. to starting pos. in Jour counts. Repeat five times.

Close order sidew. toward the center; *4 wheel I. of the ranks to a front line, J. face, match forw., deposit dumbbells and form divisions for apparatus work. March to assigned places.

Long horse and high horizontal ladder.

High horizontal ladder and long horse.

Broad buck and low horizontal bar in combination with high-jump.

Low horizontal bar in combination with high-jump and broad buck.

Change places.—Division 1 with 2, and 3 with 4.

First Division.—Long Horse (height of chest.)

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Flank vault 1.

2.	Rear vault r. (hands on croup).

3.	As ex. 2, with *4 turn 1. to front side stand, hands on saddle; squat rest on saddle; stand erect and dismount forw. with raising arms forw. overh.

4.	As ex. 3, but squat vault forw. instead of squat rest.

f>. As ex. 3, but hands rest on saddle, to front side stand at neck ; stride vault 1. (toward the r.) over neck with Vl turn 1. to front cross stand on far side of neck.

6.	Jump to momentary free front rest on neck, then lower to riding seat on the same; raise both legs back to horizontal pos. (free rest), closing the legs and immediately straddle dismount forw.

7.	As ex. 6, but straddle dismount backw. to front cross stand.

8.	Jump to momentary free front rest on neck and straddle vault forw.

9.	As ex. 8, but straddle vault backw.

10.	An exercise free for all.

Note.—Execute all movements 1. and r. whenever possible.

Change place with the second division on the high horizontal ladder.

First Division.—High Horizontal Ladder.

In side hang with outside grasp on the 1st and 3rd rounds at right end of ladder.

1.	Travel sidew. 1 , moving the hands alternately, beginning with the r. hand to farther end.

2.	As ex. 1, with side swinging.

3.	Repeat ex. 1 and 2 with inside grasp.

*

With outside grasp on 1st and 2nd rounds.—

4.	Travel sidew. 1., moving both hands simultaneously to farther end.

5.	As ex. 4, but with side swinging, moving both hands when the swing is to the 1.

6. As ex. 2, but with V2 turn forw. 1. and r. alternately.

7. As ex. 6, but with V2 turn backw. 1. and r. alternately.

First Division: Second “ Third

Fourth “

Digitized by Google
-91-

In front side hang on beam, hands in ordinary grasp.—

8.	Pull up to straight arm rest; transfer hands to reverse grasp on farther beam (front leaning rest); front circle forw. to straight arm hang and legs to r. angle, then lower legs to hang, and down.

9.	An exercise free for all.

Note.—Execute all movements 1. and r. whenever possible.

Second Division.—High Horizontal Ladder.

Execute the movements of the first division.

Change plaee with the first division on the long horse.

Second Division.—Long Horse.

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Stride vault 1. to cross stand on r. side of croup.

2.	As ex. 1, with V4 turn 1. to front side stand; jump to squat rest 1. and place r. foot on neck (leg extended); dismount foiw.

3. As ex. 2, but Wolf vault forw. r. with or without Vi turn 1.

4. As ex. 2, to front side stand at saddle; rear vault mount 1. on neck? raise both legs backw. to front leaning rest; straddle dismount forw.

o.	Jump to front leaning rest, hands on neck; straddle dismount forw. with Vi turn 1.

0.	As ex. 5, but straddle dismount forw. with Vi turn 1. to front cross stand and hands on neck; rear vault 1. over neck to cross stand.

7.	Jump to momentary free front rest on neck and straddle vault forw. Repeat.

8.	An exercise free for all.

Note.—Execute all movements 1. and r. whenever possible.

The third and fourth divisions execute the same movements. The third to begin on the broad buck and the fourth on the low horizontal bar in combination with high jump.

Buck (broad) (height of chest).

A short run precedes all movements.

1.	Jump to knee stand; dismount forw.

2. As ex. 1, but dismount forw. with Vi turn 1. and swing arms forw.

3. As ex. 1, but dismount forw. with V6 turn 1. and swing arms overh.

4.	Straddle vault forw.

5.	Straddle vault forw. with V4 turn 1.

6.	Straddle vault forw. with V2 turn 1.

7.	Squat rest on buck; stand erect; dismount forw. with V2 turn 1. and raise arms forw. overh.

8.	Squat vault forw. (extending both legs forw.).

9.	Squat vault forw. with momentary rest and extend legs and hips to vertical pos. the moment the feet pass over the buck, the arms to be raised forw. in the flight.

10.	Straddle vault forw., the members following as rapidly as possible. Repeat twice.

11.	An exercise free for all.

Note.—Execute all movements 1. and r. whenever possible.
Low Horizontal Bar (height of chest) in Combination with High-Jump.

Note.—The jaraping standards to be placed about two feet six inches or three feet on the far side of the horizontal bar. Start the crossbar at about three feet and raise the same two inches after each jump of the division.

In front side stand, hands in ordinary grasp.

1.	Jump up, raise ankles to bar, underswing and pass over the crossbar.

2	As ex. 1. but add lA turn 1. Same with V2 turn 1.

3.	Jump to pos. of straight arm front rest; drop backw., ankles to bar, underswing and pass over the bar without or with M or Vz turn 1.

4.	Front hip circle backw. to front rest and finish as in ex. 3.

5.	As ex. 1 (or either of the other pos. as a starting pos.) for height.

Note.—Repeat ex. 2 and 3 with V4 and V2 turn r.

Clear the floor of all the apparatus, form a front line. Describe two circles of about two to two feet six inches in diameter for the game “Foot-in-the-ring.” Start on both ends. After conclusiou of the game clap hands once and dismiss.

(To be continued.

For some unknown reason the side horse exercises for the March issue were omitted. They are intended for the third and fourth divisions and follow herewith.

Side Horse.

A short run precedes al! movements.

1.	Jump to front rest and place 1. foot on the neck (leg extended); place r. foot to the 1. with V4 turn r.; transfer the 1. hand to r. pommel to front leaning rest; dismount sidew. 1. to cross stand.

2.	As first part of ex. 1; swing the r. leg to join the 1. with turn r. and immediately dismount sidew. 1. to cross stand.

3.	Front vault mount 1. (to front leaning rest); dismount sidew. 1. with y± turn 1. to front side stand.

4.	Front vault mount 1. to riding seat on neck; swing both legs backw. and dismount sidew. 1. with M turn 1. to front side stand.

5.	Front vault mount 1. to riding seat on neck ; swing both legs back to squat rest on neck; extend body forw., the hands to be transferred on croup; straddle dismount forw.

6.	Front vault 1. Repeat once or twice until good form is acquired.

7.	An exercise free for all.

Note.—Execute all movements 1. and r.

CORRESPONDENCE.

—Miss E. R. W.f St. Louis. Your article is gladly accepted. We can assure you that we appreciate your encouraging comments on the usefulness of our little magazine.

—Th. A. G., Chicago. Your article is full of commendable enthusiasm and energy and also very well written, but not quite in keeping with our policy in the matter. We consider any effort to compare systems as a waste of time.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-93-

Such time can be made use of in a better way. For years the respective representatives of the different systems have incessantly fought one another to their own disadvantage. But now things are different; we have come to a sort oi understanding, or truce, as it were.

It is necessary as well as beneficial for all parties concerned to work more in mutual harmony, to march our columns in parallel directions if we would make a lasting impression on our opponents. We have an idea that Father Time and Miss Experience will be the form-givers of the best national system of physical education.

FIELD DAY

FOR THE 6th. 7th AND 8th GRADES. INDIANAPOLIS PUBLIC SCHOOLS.

May 19. Baseball Park.

A.	EXHIBITION WORK FOR BOYS AIND GIRLS.

8th Grade. Club swinging.

7th Grade. Dumb-bell exercises.

6th Grade. Wand exercises.

B.	SCHOOL CONTESTS FOR BOYS AND GIRLvS.

A building may enter but one team for each event.

1.	Relay Race, for boys. Eight to a team. Distance, 400 yards (50 yards for each).

2.	Prisoner’s Base, for girls. Eight to a team. Two halves of eight minutes each will be played.

3.	Captain Ball, for boys. Ten to a team. Two halves of eight minutes <*aeh will be played.

C.	INDIVIDUAL CONTESTS FOR BOYS.

Representation.

Every building with an enrollment up to 300 pupils may enter two boys for each event. Thereafter in large buildings one additional boy may be entered for every additional 300 pupils or a majority thereof.

1.	Running Far Jump.

2.	Fifty-yard Dash, for boys under twelve years of age.

3.	Seventy-five-yard Dash, for boys under fourteen and one-half years of age.

General Information.

Apparatus for the playground will be presented to the winners in the contests, and also to the three buildings having the largest attendance in the exhibition numbers.

No pupil may be entered who is not up to the standard in work or conduct. No one may enter a contest who has not taken part in the exhibition work. A circular giving more information will follow*.

William A. Stecher, Director Physical Training.

CLUB SWINGING- Xth Grade.

GROUP I.

Starting position:	Clubs up.

Exercise 1.

Arm circles inward with clubs tipping on the extended arms (shoulder high) 1—2.

Digitized by CjOOQle
-94

Two hand circles outward (behind the shoulders) 3—4.

Two arm circles outward 5—8 (coming back to the starting position a\ 6 and 8).

Repeat the above four movements with a slight knee-bending at 10;

9—16.

Arm circles outward with clubs tipping on the crossed and bent arms 1—2.

Two hand circles forward (at the shoulders) 3—4.

Two arm circles inward 5—8 (comipg back to the starting position at 6—8).

Repeat the above four movements with a slight knee-bending at 10; 9—16.

Three-quarter double arm circle left, turning the trunk right, with clubs tipping on the extended arms 1—2.

Two hand circles forward (at the shoulders) 3—4.

Turn trunk forward with two double arm circles right 5—8 (coming* back to the starting position at 6 and 8).

Repeat the above four movements with a lunge right forward (in the direction of the trunk turning) at 10, and a return to the fundamental position at 13; 9—16.

Like the third exercise, but to the opposite side.

N. B.—After learning the four exercises the group will be executed without a pause in four times sixteen counts. Between each group there will be a pause of sixteen beats.

During the pause the clubs are lowered at one (with a hand circle forward) and again raised at nine.

Pendulum swings, both arms are swung sideward, shoulder high.

Swinging both arms dowm at the right side, swing them left—1; right—2; left—3; and right—4.

Swing both arms over head and change the swings to right, left, right and left, 5—8; coming back to the starting position at 8.

Repeat the above movements 9—16.

Exercise 2.

Swinging both arms outward, cross them in front of the body, shoulder high—1, outward—2, crossed—3, and outward—4.

Swing both arms up and inwTard and change the swings to outward, crossed, outward and position 5—8.

Repeat the above movements 9—16.

Exercise 3.

Beginning like Exercise 1, swing both arms to the left—1; move both arms horizontally to the right, at the same time swinging a horizontal hand circle right—2; repeat 3—4, 5—6, 7 and position at 8.

Repeat the above movements to the other side 9—16.

Exercise 2.

Exercise 3.

Exercise 4.

GROUP II. Exercise 1.
-95-

Exercise 4.

Beginning like Exercise 2, cross in front of shoulders—1, horizontal hand circles outward—2; repeat 3—4t 5—6, 7 and position at 8.

Swing both arms inward and change the hand circles inward 9—16.

Pause of sixteen beats, lower and raise clubs as in Group II.

GROUP III.

Exercise 1.

Double arm circle right—1, turn trunk left (quarter turn) with hand circles forward at the shoulders—2; swing clubs down—3, up—4, down—5, up—6.

Two hand circles forward at the shoulders, turning trunk forward

T—8.

Repeat the above movements to the opposite side 9—16.

Exercise 2.

Repeat the first half of Exercise 1, facing left and lunging left forward at 2, swing down, up, down, up, and return to position at 6, facing front at 7 and ,8.

Repeat the movements to the opposite side 9—16.

Exercise 3.

Like Exercise 2, with bending trunk forward (not too deeply) at 3, straightening it at 4, again bending at 5, closing feet at 6 and then facing front at 7 and 8.

Repeat to the opposite side 9—16.

Exercise 4.

Beginning like Exercise 2, lunge left forward at 2, kneel right during counts 3, 4 and 5, rise to position at 6 and face front at 7 and 8. During these movements hand circles forward are swung at the shoulders.

Repeat to the opposite side 9—16.

Pause of sixteen beats, lower and raise clubs as in Group II.

GROUP IV.

Exercise 1.

Keep in line with your leaders.

One step left sideward with double arm circle left 1—2.

Lunge left sideward at 3 and return to position at 4 with double arm circle left 3—4.

Double arm and hand circles left (hand circles below) 5—6.

Double arm circle left to position 7—8.

The above movements to the right 9—16.

Exercise 2.

Like Exercise 1, but swing the arm and hand circles outward.

Exefrcise 3.

At 1 straighten the arms sideward, clubs tipped upon them and three-Btep-twirl left 1—4.

Arm and hand circles outward (hand circles below, feet closed) 5—8.

At 9 straighten arms sideward, clubs tipped and repeat the above movements to the right 9—16.

Exercise 4.

Like Exercise 3, but swing the arm and hand circles inward.

(To be continued.)

Digitized by U.ooQLe
GYMNASTIC NOMENCLATURE.

By DR. E. H. ARNOLf

4. Left heel backward raise! Lower!......................(Pig*	34.)

5. Left heel back-upward raise! Lower!...................(Pig*	3Ti.)

4.	Left heel backward raise! Lower!....................(Pig*	34.)

5.	Left heel back-upward raise! Lower!.................(Pig*	3Ti.)

ANKLE STRAIGHTENING.

1. Heels raise! Lower!.................................(Pig*	36.)

TRUNK BENDING AND STRAIGHTENING.

1.	Trunk forward bend! Straighten!.....................(Pig*	37.)

2.	Trunk right bend! Straighten!.......................(Pig*	38.)

3.	Trunk backward bend! Straighten!....................(Pig*	39.)

4.	Trunk forward-downward bend! Straighten!............(Pig-	40.)

TURNING.

HEAD.

1. Head turn left! Return!.............................(Pig*	41.)

TRUNK.

1. Trunk left turn! Return!............................(Pig*	42.)

Digitized by

Google