MIND AND BODY

Vol. 40	DEC.—JAN. 1933-34	No.	416-17

Ability Grouping and Individualization in Physical Education in the Philadelphia Public Schools

Grover W. Mueller

INTRODUCTION

The accelerated development of the psychological, medical, and social sciences during recent years brought to educators the realization that children vary greatly as individuals. This realization made it clear that mass instruction of pupils had led far from the goal of equal educational opportunity for all children. Subsequently several methods of attaining this goal have been proposed and tried in different parts of the country with varying degrees of success. Among these methods, the three which have received and are still receiving emphasis and support are the project method, ability grouping, and individualization. It is with the latter two methods that we will concern ourselves mainly in this article in an attempt to show how we in Philadelphia are trying to adjust our program in physical education to meet individual differences.

We believe that physical educators are the pioneers in the method of ability grouping. For well over fifty years it has been the common practice among most of these teachers to divide their classes into groups or squads on the basis of demonstrated achievement. It was the purpose of these educators to make it possible by this means to assign activities suited to the ability of each group in order to permit the best physical progress of individual pupils and to hold their interest in the activities. Further, they felt that the possibility of advancing to a higher ability group would serve as a strong incentive to maximum effort.

However, though it is probably true that teachers of physical education were pioneers in this matter, it is unfortunately equally true that throughout the country with the great influx of new teachers having only superficial training in the field during the early post-war period, the percentage of physical educators using this valuable method was rapidly and greatly reduced, just at a time when teachers in the general field were making increased use

Digitized by ^.ooQle
194

of it. Happily this condition has been much improved. The Philadelphia schools were spared such a great decline because of the wise leadership of the man who was then director of physical education, and because there was no great lowering of requirements for admission into our special field.

The teachers of physical education in Philadelphia still believe in the values of ability grouping as stated by the early workers in our field. But we have come to understand along with educational leaders that ability grouping, aside from the values previously stated, “is only a step toward individualization, a step which makes individual instruction easier, both to initiate and to incorporate.” Most of our teachers are fully aware that wide differences exist even between individuals of each ability group and that “to stop at ability groupings would be to ‘■fail to solve many of the problems involved in the differences that exist among children.”

We feel confident that most of our specialist teachers have made good progress toward the goal of individualization. We recognize, however, that we still have a long distance to go before we meet the needs of the pupils. Further progress of appreciable extent will be difficult under present conditions. The obstacles in /the form of limited space, limited equipment, large classes, meager Jtime allotment, and—in the upper grades of elementary schools— non-specialist teachers, are very real.

In this article an attempt is made to show what we are doing in an effort to solve the problem of individualization in the face of these difficulties. In evaluating the work which is being done it may be helpful to keep in mind the following essence of a “tentative, vet practicable program of individualization” which is presented in the Twenty-fourth Yearbook of the National Society for the Study of Education:

1.	The curriculum is to be outlined in terms of the common essentials on the one hand, and group and creative activities on the other.

2.	The common essentials are to be subdivided into specific measurable units of achievement.

3.	Complete diagnostic tests are to be prepared to cover each of these units of achievement.

4.	Self-instructive and self-corrective practice materials are to be prepared to enable children to get ready for the tests individually or to repair deficiencies shown by the tests.

5.	A simple record system is to be incorporated by means of which each child’s progress may be noted.

6.	Provision is to be made for individual subject promotions, not necessarily involving change of room, but merely continuance from the completed unit in any subject to the next unit in that subject.

7.	Ample provision is to be made for a wide variety of group and creative activities.

No attempt is made in this article to follow these seven points in the exact order or form in which they have been stated.

Digitized by

Google
195

ABILITY GROUPING IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION

Division of classes into small groups is essential in physical education if a worthwhile program of varied activities is to be conducted. The best basis for grouping is usually ability. Such grouping permits the assignment of activities which more nearly meet the needs of individual pupils than is possible under any other practical plan. It allows the pupil to work as long'or as short a time as necessary to master essentials. It insures pupil interest because the work is suited to the ability of each and because fellow group members have approximately equal ability. It is sufficiently elastic to permit each pupil to move upward or downward among the groups in accordance with his achievement. Finally, it makes possible a much greater amount of individual instruction. Thus it is possible to approach the goal of indivi-ualization through the aid of ability grouping.

Limited amount of each type of equipment, restricted space, and the nature of particular types of activity all lead inevitably either to an emaciated program in which a few types of activity which permit only mass instruction are used, or to a division of the class into groups in connection with certain phases of the program. In all of our schools we have followed the latter course, though in the elementary schools we have gone but a short way on account of the obstacles in the path. For many years the teachers in our schools have been dividing their classes into several small groups. The selection of the determining factor on which division is based in each case is dependent not only on the peculiar values of each factor [sUch as height, age, grade, ability] in connection with particular types of activity, but more especially on the presence of certain environmental limitations. However, ability has come to be recognized as the most important basis when it is possible to use it.

In order to carry out the plan of ability grouping and individualization our teachers find it necessary to call to their aid a large army of pupil leaders or assistants. Pupil leaders are given special instruction during club periods and after school hours in preparation for their work. The special advanced training received by the leaders and the service in leadership which they render is in itself a sort of individualization program so far as the pupils of higher ability are concerned.

ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS

In the elementary schools it has been found best not to have groups homogeneous with regard to ability in connection with team games, but rather to have an equal distribution of ability from low to high in each of two groups. From an administrative standpoint, as well as to insure interest and equal team opportunity in competitive team games, we have found it wise to divide every class in the elementary schools beginning with grade 4 into two teams of girls and two teams of boys on this basis. This is the best plan in connection with team games
196

wherever a relatively small number [20] of pupils of either sex is involved. Obviously if all the best pupils are placed in one group and the poorer ones in another group, games and other group competition would be so one-sided as to be without interest to the participants. In schools with ample space facilities a practical solution of the difficulty arising from small groups is to roster two or more classes of like school grade for physical education at the same period, thus making it possible for like ability groups to compete with each other. This allows much greater participation by low ability pupils, with accompanying keener interest and accelerated learning. Naturally the higher ability pupils also gain much in interest and improvement.

In connection with individual activities., however, we are finding the possibilities for ability grouping in elementary school classes to be much greater. Principals and teachers are making splendid progress along this line in track and field events, fundamentals of games, and Stunts. Thus they are providing not only the greatest possible opportunity for improvement in each individual, but they are also enriching the program of activities for those who are able to progress more rapidly than the class as a whole.

HIGHER SCHOOLS

In practically all junior high schools and in many of the senior high schools, ability grouping is firmly established and is showing excellent results. Pupils are usually assigned to groups on the basis of the extent to which they have mastered units of work. These units are in most cases easily measured. It is a common and satisfactory practice at the beginning of each school term to assign pupils to an ability group which corresponds with the one of which the pupil was a member during the preceding term, or to group the pupils on the basis of a short achievement test. In any event, pupils are subject to change to higher and lower groups during any class period when improvement or lack of improvement seems to warrant such change. As has been noted, the assignment of pupils to ability groups should and commonly is determined by achievement in accurately measurable activities; indeed, achievement in many of these selected activities is immediately and easily measured by the pupil himself and consequently in most cases he is able to determine his own status. It should be stated that ability grouping is confined mainly, for practical as well as educational reasons, to so-called individual activities, that is, to activities which do not require a team or group for their performance.

INDIVIDUALIZATION IN PHYSICAL EDUCATION

For the purposes of this discussion, the curriculum in physical education may be divided in a general way into three classifications.

1.	[a] In all school grades types of games and play are included in the program which are interesting and physically val-

Digitized by kjOOQle
197

uable to all pupils irrespective of mental ability or neuro-muscular proficiency. They command spontaneous and pleasurable participation by all pupils. Such activities are those which involve racially old interests, emotions, and responses. These activities are all * quite simple, involving little skill and being governed by few rules. There is no need for individualization nor ability grouping in their use.

[bl Then there are group games requiring a greater airount of skill in controlling one’s own body movements and in handling objects. These games, furthermore, involve team-work. There is no call for individualization here. On the contrary, one of the valuable features of this type of activity is that it involves group activity. It is one of the functions of another part of the physical education curriculum to provide individual instruction in the basic skills which are necessary to enjoyable participation in team games. Ability grouping is another matter, of cdurse. For team games which involve more than a moderate degree of skill, it is not only desirable but it is important that team mates and opposing team units be approximately equal in proficiency. When low ability individuals play with those of much greater ability, active participation by the former is at a minimum, and interest and pleasure are greatly reduced for all team members.

2.	A second general phase of the physical education curriculum is that used primarily for body conditioning, that is for the development of the body into an efficient instrument for use in other physical education activities and in regular daily life. The main activities in this group are free exercises and dancing. These are mass activities in which the team element is absent. Individualization finds little application here, although effort is made to give as much instruction to individuals as is possible by having the teacher move about among the class members and give assistance to those pupils who appear to be in greatest need of it. Division of the class into ability groups is unnecessary for free exercises, but is highly desirable in connection with dancing. Unfortunately, however, ability grouping for dancing is impractical in our schools except in a very limited way because the varied musical selections which are an essential adjunct make it necessary to use a separate room for each group.

3.	It is in the third phase of the curriculum that individualization is most desirable and, fortunately, most possible in our schools. The activities involved are mainly of the type which may properly be termed self-testing activities. They are individual activities in the sense that one person may perform them. Most prominent in this phase are track and field events, game fundamentals, stunts on apparatus and on the ground, swimming, and corrective as well as other special individual activities for pupils with physical defects.

These activities are included in the program not only for the specific values inherent in each, but also because the abilities thus developed are needed in connection with the group activities which have been discussed previously.

Digitized by UjOOQle
198

It should be noted that achievement in most of the types of activity enumerated can either be measured accurately or evaluated satisfactorily. Achievement standards based on the results of tests given to thousands of pupils have been set up in connection with most of the activities. Thus we have standards representing f excellent, good, and satisfactory achievement for each age group and school grade. By reference to these achievement standards, which in most schools are posted or are kept where pupils may have free access to them, the teachers and, more important, the pupils are able at all times to evaluate performance and to note improvement.

We frequently teach the rudiments of a new skill or activity to the class as a whole [mass instruction] in order to convey the basic information needed by all pupils for further practice; also to give all pupils instruction in the more gross and general movements. The larger, more basic general movements are learned with more nearly equal facility by all pupils, although to be sure the pupils of greater intelligence learn more rapidly. Giving class instruction in this manner saves the time and energy of the teacher. After this has been done, the class is divided into small groups so that intensive practice under the guidance of pupil leaders and teachers may go on. Such intensive drill is most effective because it is specific to the needs of the pupils.

Different pupils need different amounts of time to master any given activity. Through the use of ability grouping and with the aid of trained pupil leaders, individuals may continue to work at a certain unit until a reasonable degree of proficiency has been developed. Thus within any given ability group, each pupil may be working on a different unit. Because the requirements of each unit are clear to the pupil, and because he can in most cases immediately measure his own performance, he is ever aware of his status, of his improvement, and of the next steps to be taken.

In this phase of the program, the pupil is competing primarily with himself: he knows what his present performance is and he tries to better it. The achievement standards are among the goals toward which he strives.

The pupils in the high ability squads have not only to meet higher standards in the same events practiced by'all members of the entire class, but they participate in a greater variety of activities; that is, they have an enriched program. Those pupils who have attained the excellent achievement standards of their age-groups and school grades may practice for and take the athletic ability tests which call for a still higher quality of performance in an all-round series of events which are similar to those in the regular curriculum.

An individualization program should include “complete diagnostic tests to cover each unit of achievement.” In the selftesting physical education events which we have been discussing every trial by a pupil is in a very definite sense a diagnostic test,—showing the performer, the pupil leader, other members of
199

the ability group, and the teacher wherein the difficulty lies. Our good teachers encourage such analysis and diagnosis followed by suggestions from the pupil leader and fellow group members to the performer. Such a procedure assists not only the pupil addressed but also those who diagnose and make suggestions to acquire a better undo-standing of what is involved in good achievement.

Another requirement of an individualization program is that self-instructive and self-corrective materials be available for the pupils. It should be clear in the light of what has already been stated that such material is available in our physical education program. It is a part of the regular teaching procedure to pres-sent modified forms of the assigned units and to make suggestions for use in the learning process to each pupil who will be helped thereby.

Teacher record forms and pupil record forms are printed and supplied to the schools on which a simple record showing each child’s progress may be noted. Generally these records give a clear picture of the achievement and progress of each pupil. In most cases they are used as the basis for ability grouping, a pupil being advanced to the next higher group as soon as his written record plus the observation of his work by the teacher warrants promotion. In many schools the organization of ability groups and record sheets is such that each pupil knows exactly when he is eligible for advancement to the next squad. Thus provision is made for individual subject promotions, the pupil continuing from the completed unit in a given type of activity to the next unit in the same type, and passing from one ability group to the next higher group at any time during the school term when he demonstrates his worth.

In physical education as in other subjects, there are certain things that all children should master, and teachers make every effort to accomplish this end. On the other hand there are things which need not be mastered in the same degree or in the same manner by all pupils. With regard to these, teachers are urged not to demand high grade performance before permitting the pupil to take up other units.

It should be noted at this point that physical education differs from many other subjects in that numerous activities or units are best enjoyed and most profitably performed after the pupil has acquired skill in execution. Accordingly many activities are repeated periodically for a long time. Teachers must of course be cautious that a good proportion of new and learned activities is maintained in the program of any school grade.

Corrective work for the removal or improvement of physical defects which are susceptible to correction through physical exercise is of necessity individual in nature. To date such work has found only limited application in our schools. In the elementary schools where corrective exercises are probably of greatest value, the teachers in general lack sufficient special training; in the high-
200

er schools where there are trained teachers, crowded activity-areas and roster difficulties prevent a real corrective program. However, we are doing the best under the circumstances, and in a few schools a fairly good program exists.

The individualization program which has been described up to this point is naturally found in its best form in the higher schools. As noted previously, the obstacles in the elementary schools in the form of limited equipment and time allotment, lack of trained personnel, and unsuitable clothing, are to a large extent impossible for the teacher to overcome. However, progress has been made and we are confident that further improvement will take place during the next school year.

[To be continued, in next issue.]

Correlation Between Physical and Health Education and the School Medical Inspection Service

Walter S. Cornell, M. D., Diiector of the Division of Medical Inspection, Philadelphia Public Schools

Interest of the School Medical Service in the School Health

Instruction Program

1.	It is well for the teachers who formulate the curriculum in health education, in our larger communities at least, to do this with some participation by the school medical service. If the school physician has kept well abreast of the times in the subjects of physiology and hygiene he will be able to give useful help. If he has not, at least it will awaken him to his proper participation in the subject of health conservation w’ork in addition to the problems of curative medicine. In Philadelphia the Director of Medical Inspection assisted in the formulation of the courses in hygiene with enjoyment and profit to himself. Doubtless in small communities the best plan for the teacher in health education is to copy the program of health education already formulated in some larger community since the latter has been evolved presumably by a large committee with the advantage of different viewpoints, and often the viewpoints of specialists.

2.	The health instruction program should include in addition to the basic hygiene, physiology and elementary anatomy, some supplemental material bearing on [a] common accidents and their treatment “First-Aid” and [b] chronic diseases and defects of children. These latter particularly include malnutrition, eye-strain and defective vision, diseased tonsils, adenoid nasal obstruction, defective hearing, dental caries, poor posture, [including flat feet], heart disease, tuberculosis, and gastro intestinal disorders. In the case of high school girls the subject of menstrual

Digitized by CjOOQle
201

disorders may be added to the above list. Hie teacher of hygiene should be familiar with the most common causes, manifestations, and methods of treatment of these diseases and defects.

The time has passed when all knowledge of law was confined to the barrister, all knowledge of theology to the clergy, and all knowledge of health to the physician. It is absolutely necessary, however, that the pupils realize that a considerable minority of the diseases affecting the organs or systems, or special senses just mentioned are caused by a great variety of conditions which are known to, considered by, and diagnosed by, the physician, in correspondence to his general abilities as physician, and his use of special diagnostic instruments. To use an illustration not connected with school health work, a recent meeting of the Philadelphia County Medical Society had a program mated to diseases and functional disorders of the colon. Possibly the strongest advice that was given to the general practitioner was that his medical eaxmination of persons suffering from constipation, or discomfort in the region of the rectum, should include an actual digial examination of the rectum, an examination of the upper rectum with use of the proctoscope, and if possible an X-ray examination of the gastro-intestinal tract with use of the barium salts. The causes of malnutrition in children, violations of the rules of healthful living, including diet, are actually quite numerous, including organic diseases such as nephritis and diabetes, chronic infections or parasitic diseases such as tuberculosis, numerous carious teeth, and badly infected tonsils, and bad mental hygiene in the home.

The teacher must bear in mind that little knowledge of medicine can be a very valuable thing, or a very dangerous thing, according to the use that is made of it. This principle holds whether the school physician is a first class one, or a mediocre one. Attempts by the laity to pr ctice medicine end up, sooner or later, in disaster. On the other hand, it is always proper for the teacher to suggest to the child or to the parent that certain conditions existing may possibly be due to basic conditions which may be remedied, provided that the supplemental mark is made that only a thorough medical examination will reveal the actual cause of the condition and that it should be made.

Ratings Of Children On The Basis Of Health

3.	There is much to be said in favor of those school projects which give practical emphasis to the value of good health, by the giving of a rating mark which will indicate the possession of it. Certainly the rating of the health of an entire school, as a unit, with inclusion of the proportion of remediable defects corrected during the past year, appears to be a good thing, since it emphasizes the practical importance of the correction^ of exists ing defects. There are other angles to such a plan which merit careful discussion but they are not germane to the subject of good relationship between the medical service and the health-education service.

Digitized by CjOOQle
202

Corrective Exercises For Poor Posture, Including Flat Feet.

4.	The treatment of disease, generally speaking, is the function of the medical and dental profession. There is no reason however, against the employment of the nurse, the physical instructor, or the masseur, under the general guidance of the physician, and where the corrective treatment consists of simple

Serial exercises, to be used after the physician ascertains that ey are not contra-indicated by reason of some other existing condition of ill health, these exercises may well be given at the school by the physical instructor. This applies particularly to poor posture existing in those older school children who are not so undernourished that exercises will prove exhausting, and in whom there is danger that a long assumed stooped position will become fixed, unless generally strengthening exercises, and some over-extension exercises cure the condition. The same thought applies to weak foot arches. Exercises to strengthen the flexor muscles of the leg and foot can easily be given in the schools, with admonition regarding propdr foot posture. However, it seems to the writer that one of the most valuable items in the

general health education program should be the conservation of healthy feet by clear instruction to all children on the subject, and whenever possible the use of class exercises with the shoes removed.

The conservation of female health, in its gynecological aspects, is accomplished largely by good general nealth. Setting aside the matter of undue sex stimulation and venereal disease, it is a fact that the woman who is generally healthy is not likely to suffer from menstrual disturbances, whereas those who are thin and anemic often do so suffer. This brings us to the consideration of Dr. Mosher's exercises, and other special systems of exercise of the abdominal muscles. It is reasonable that routine physical exercises should include those of the abdominal muscles and that these tend toward the conservation of good health of the abdominal organs, assuming that good health already exists. This parallels our previous remark that physical exercises should include exercise of the foot and leg muscles, best accomplished after the shoes are removed, and that this tends to conserve healthy structure of the feet. It is a risky procedure, however, to attempt the cure of menstrual disorders by exercises alone, since these conditions may be due to endocrine disturbances or to poor nutrition, or to bad social-sex habits; and in some cases the performance of exercises, especially affecting an abdomen containing an inflamed uterus or ovaries may entail a real health risk. What is needed in every case of menstrual disturbance is a thorough medical study of the case, before the best method - of treatment is determined -

Medical Certification Of Physical Fitness Of Pupils Desiring to Compete In Athletic Contests

5.	The law of Pennsylvania requires that participants in pugilistic or wrestling contests be examined by a physician.

Digitized by v^ooQle
203

with medical certification that they are in good health. This wise procedure doubtless has saved more than one fighter from death, during the course of his training or while actually engaged in a contest. It has also saved many a pugilist from a situation where the deajth of an opponent in the ring, actually due to heart disease, would have resulted in sorrow on his pa;t, not to speak of ap embarrassing arrest for manslaughter.

Racing contests are almost as strenuous as boxing or wrestling matches, and in some instances may be more strenuous. In the twenty years of official school service of the Director of Medical Inspection of the Philadelphia Public Schools, he has known of at least three pupils who died of heart disease on the school premises, or who suffered heart attacks in school with fatal terminations soon after their removal to their homes. Most or all of these children had been discovered previously by the school physician and their parents notified of their condition but in one case at least—the one last occurring, the pupil had kept late hours, including attendance at evening dances. It is well known to the public that the school authorities, in addition to the academic instruction, have provided a health service, partly medical, partly instructional, and partly in the form of supervised exercises and athletics. For its own protection, if for no other reason, the Philadelphia school authorities have required that no pupil may participate in competitive athletic sports, without a certificate of physical fitness, signed either by the family physician, or the school physician.

It may be well in this connection to remark on the responsibilities of the school physician who is requested to examine a pupil who desires to engage in athletic sports. It fa always best to have this medical examination made by the family physician. If anything goes wrong by reason of an accident the

Earent realizes that he had evidently given parental consent, by fa employment of the family physician. If the pupil should suffer from the effects of over-exertion, the parent is not likely to criticize the physician who made the certification of physical fitness because he has confidence in that physician as his family physician. If, however, the parents cannot or will not employ their own physician to make the medical examination, the school physician should not make any medical examination without the written consent of the parent, made in the form of a positive request or application. The school physician should require that the pupil, under these special circumstances, should be completely undressed, in order that a proper examination may be made. The parent should be invited to be present. If there is any objection anywhere, the school physician should decline to make the medical examination. He has both the pupil and himself to consider in the matter.

Digitized by tjOOQle
204

Limitation Of Physical Exercises In Physically Sub-Standard Pupils

Medical certificates requesting that physical exercises of pupils be restricted may be received from either the family physician or from the school medical inspector. We will assume in fairness and. from experience that the great majority of these are justified. There is, however, some chance that the family physician, in his lack of knowledge of the school program, may request more restriction of exercises than the pupil really needs, and there is considerable chance that pupils who really need restriction of physical exercises but who have not been seen by a family physician, will not be cared for by a certification from the school physician, because the relation between the latter and the pupil is not an intimate one, but depends largely on the annual physical examination made in school, with only partial undressing of the child.

The Philadelphia schools have wrestled with this problem for many years. It is a fact that some pupils are lazy and averse to physical activity, or desire to utilize the gymnasium hour to study mathematics, history, or ether academic subject. Some may be neurasthenic, eaxggerating slight discomfort existing. These pupils will do their best to induce their family physicians to sign certificates asking that they be excused from physical education. It is sometimes difficult to distinguish between the bona fide cases and the fakers.. However, it must always be borne in mind that the attending physician is legally and morally responsible for the care of his patient, and that refusal to obey his requests entails a great responsibility, and the probability of censure in case the child suffers from accident from any cause. It appears that cases of medical certification by family physicians, which cause doubt as to their wisdom in the minds of the school authorities, will be reduced to a minimum by the following measures, [a] The school authorities should formulate a graded program of restricted physical exercises, beginning with excuse from competitive athletics only, and ending with excuse from the simplest physical exertion in the school house. This definite plan, clearly shown on the blank certificate which the family physician is asked to use when executing his medical certificate, will often be helpful to him.

[b]	The Medical certificate recommending excuse from physical activities in school should be valid for a limited time only— —one month, or two months at the longest. A physician who makes rather sweeping recommendations in the matter of excuse from school activities, is not likely to continue to do this month after month, if the condition of the child does not warrant it. Often the child will be well and discharged from his care before a month has elapsed.

It may be noted in this connection that if any child in the Philadelphia schools has a permanent crippling condition, the district medical supervisor is empowered to sign a certificate

Digitized by v^ooQle
205

foi permanent excuse from physical exercises, thus relieving the family from the necessity of monthly expenditures simply to procure a medical certificate.

[c]	If the school physician is asked to examine a child, in the absence of a certificate from a family physician,, to determine whether that child should be escused from physical activities in the school, he should insist that he be allowed to make a physical examination which is thorough enough to give him a definite opinion.. If an examination of the child with its clothes on does not reveal cause for medical certification of unfitness, the school physician, or the principal, should notify the parents that the child needs a thorough examination, which should be made by the family physician, but which will be made by the school physician, with the child’s clothing removed, provided the parent so desires. Such a communication to the parent should be a matter of official record, for the protection of the school authorities.

[d]	Excuse from physical exercises should alwqys be accompanied by the substitution of a positive school program, thus reducing the temptation to the pupil to work his family physician for a medical certificate by reciting to him a tale of imaginary ills.. At the present time the best that can be done is to direct the pupil to sit in the gymnasium, or to lest in the school infirmary partly to give the pupil actual physical rest and partly to keep him from surreptitiously studying, or loafing in some secluded part of the school building. The real need, to fully correct the situation, is for the State Department to modify its regulation that graduation from high school requires a certain number cf credits in physical education, to the extent that these credits will not be required, provided [a] there is medical certification that exercises will injure the pupil’s health, and [b] that credit is obtained in some other accredited subject in the school curriculum.

Autocare Versus Medical Care

a-

Edward A. Filene, President, William Feline’s Eons Company Boston.

By “autocare” I mean the kipd of care and attention which owners of automobiles usually lavish on thefr cars. I want to contrast that sort of attention with the lack of care most people give to their own bodily machinery. The problem of medical care is far from a satisfactory solution—satisfactory either to the physician or to the patient. The application of some of the principles of autocare to the field of medical care would go far toward such a solution.

It takes two to do business—in medicine as well as in Selling socks. As I am as likely as the next man to do business with

Condensed from an address delivered before the American Hospital Association Convention, Atlantic City, N. J., June 18, 1929.

Digitized by
206

a physician tomorrow, I claim a stake in how the business should be conducted. Naturally, being a business man, I see no insult to the medical profession in admitting that it has its business side. Physicians, like the rest of us, have to make a living—even if they do dispense more charity and a great deal more science in the process. As a business man of forty years' experience, I have had to deal with many problems of business and social organisation. I feel, therefore, that there is less presumption' in my speaking of medical organization than of medical science—of the social and business machinery which has been created to bring medical science to the service of the people who need it. Medical science is kept constantly up to date, but the organization by which it is applied is way behind the times. That is the conclusion to which at least this particular party of the second part in the business of medicine has arrived. I am convinced that medical science travels by airplane in an age of aviation, while medical organization lumbers along in a stage coach.

As one of the great medical service buying public, I submit that we customers have cause for dissatisfaction. If we happen to be rich we must pay not only for our own treatment but for that of our poor relations—and of the poor with whom we claim no relationship at all. If we are poor we must go to a clinic and become objects of charity. If we are neither rich nor poor, one serious illness in the family may put us so seriously in debt as greatly to hamper or destroy our progress and happiness.

I do not think I exaggerate when I say that the high cost of sickness, at least among the middle classes, is as potent a cause of social unrest as poverty alnong the poor—for in the long run they produce the same result. I know of person after person—some of them members of our store staff—whose lives have been twisted and warped by the financial burdens of illness. One sometimes doubts whether, in some instances, the cure did not cause as much or more suffering—of a different sort, no doubt, but suffering just the same—as did the disease itself.

But the patient is not the only one who suffers from the present system, or lack of it. Physicians, hospitals and medical scientists generally have their own economic difficulties— just as a department store or any other business would have which operated on the same basis. Except for a few so-called successful practitioners, who serve largely a wealthy clientele, the average physician is rewarded with a ridiculously low return for the great service he renders to the community. His collection problem would stagger the accounting department of a big department store; and most hospitals must be dependent largely on charitable gifts if they are to exist at all without becoming a part of the government machine.

Something must be done about this situation by the medical profession or the public will take it in hand, as has been done —none too successfully—in some of the leading European na-

Digitized by CjOOQle
207

tions. And let me say with all the emphasis I can command that I prefer voluntary action to state enforcement—in this and every other field. Self-help by those directly concerned with any economic or social problem is always better for them, and for the public in general, than compulsion exercised by government officials; it is even better for the government.

Any solution of this problem of medical care must be predicated on incomes for physicians and medical assistants which are wholly adequate to their needs and rights as members of one of the world’s most useful and respected professions. No solution will be satisfactory that does not satisfy the legitimate economic claipas of physicians as well as of patients.

It is because of my own belief in voluntary action and in fair treatment for all concerned that I am a supporter of the Committee on the Cost of Medical Care. This committee, as is known, includes representatives of the American Medical Association and of the public, as well as several leading economists. The committee is dedicated — through a five-year research into every conceivable angle of the problem — to the task of suggesting some way out; some way by which the average man with an average income may receive adequate medical protection against a physical or mental breakdown as well as medical help in case of need at a cost within his means. In my opinion no study could promise more beneficent social results than this.

I want also to make myself clear on another important point. I do not, nor do I see how others can, blame any one for the difficulties we are in. The situation is not caused by the selfishness or the malice of any individual or group. Like all of our major social problems, it just happened; and, like them, it will go on happening until we exercise some collective control over it—until medical men apply as much science to medical organization as they have applied to their art.

Physicians have something of value to sell the public—something of immeasurably greater value than almost anything else in the world—health.	The public wants to buy	it—often must

buy it. The problem is to devise some method or organization whereby the price of this commodity can be set at a figure which all the people can afford to pay and which, at the same time, will produce a reasonable profit for the support of those who sell it.

It may be heresy, but I believe that if the basic economic issues involved in the practice of medicine were admitted and recognized, rather than avoided or cloaked with high-souuding phrases, we should not detract but add to its dignity; and, incidentally, go a long way toward the solution of its difficulties.

For years I have pointed out the advantages, to merchants and the public alike, of reducing the costs of distribution so that prices might be brought down and a wider range of goods offered within the buying capacity of a continually larger num-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
208

ber of people. The almost incredible growth of chain-store merchandizing is proving the practical value of tins theory and the process has only begun.

Before Ford applied his epoch-making theories, only the rich could afford automobiles—just as now only the rich can afford adequate medical service. Now there are 25,000,000 autos in the United States—about one for eveiy family; but most of those who own cars find difficulty in buying medical care.

Do not be alarmed. I am not going to suggest belt conveyors for clinics or chain offices for physicians or a nationwide hospital merger. But I do maintain that in the organization and sale of medical service both physicians and patients might to advantage steal a page from modem business practice.

The miracles which Mr. Ford and others have worked in bringing the automobile within the price range of the masses have been based primarily on the economies of large-scale operations and fairly predictable sales. I believe that the inauguration by the nation’s physicians and patients of a system of periodic examinations would produce much the same miracle for medical service. I am convinced that adequate medical care might be brought within the purchasing power of every American family as well as automobiles.

In the first place, periodic health examinations would be good for the patient who pays for them—if the individual who keeps a careful check on his health can be called a patient at all. The same care he gives to his automobile will produce even more valuable results when applied to the human machine.

I base this opinion on the application to medicine of the old adage that “ah ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.” The man or woman who goes to a physician for a thorough examination every six months or a year is far lest likely to become incapacitated later, or to be removed altogether from this earthly scene, by some serious disease. No athlete or prize fighter would think of doing his business without a continuing medical check-up, but business men of twice the age, under far more mental if not physical strain, seldom think they need it. Yet an expenditure of a few dollars every few months for such a check-up is more than likely to obviate the necessity of paying hundreds or even thousands of dollars for the cure of some disability that may later get out of hand.

But if a system of periodic medical examination is good for the patient, consider its effect on the physician. It creates a situation in which he not only can predict his professional activity writh far greater accuracy but can approximate the mass methods which have brought such amazing gains in business—both to producers and to consumers of goods.

To put it in terms of current economics, by doing a larger amount of business at less cost per unit, the physician can charge less per unit and yet make as much, if not more income for himself. In this case one roan's gain is not another man's

Digitized by i^.ooQle
209

loss, as the old economics would have it; but one man’s gain is the other’s gain as well. There is furthermore a double gain for the other man; not only does he pay less in the long run for actual medical care rendered but he is also less likely to be sick. I wish I could offer the public as good a “buy” as that in our store. Imagine it; lower prices for socks and also less need of socks!

Let us assume that I am a physician. I have, let us say, 267 patients—-or, rather, 267 people have called on roe for treatment during the past year who, I have every reason to suspect, will come back to see me again if they, happen to need treatment. As things are now, I have not the remotest idea of how many of them actually will come to my office next year. If I only knew I could decide definitely whether or not to engage that secretary-nurse I have been considering, and to invest in that new fluoroscope and operating table.

'If each one of these 26 7 agreed to call at least twice next year for a routine examination, I should know-just how to plan my capital investment and to frame my operating budget. Not only would I. be able to equip and run the office better, and so serve my patients more efficiently, but I could afford to make my charges lower; low enough, perhaps, so that Mr. Jones could pay his bills [thus saving the wastes of trying to bring dead accounts to life]. Then, too, Mrs. Fish would not be so incensed, at the price I have to charge her now to make up for the Joss in Mr' Jones, and to secure me against the risk of not doing any business with her or Mr, Jones at all. jc.

To get down to bare figures, I need charge only $6.25- a month—about 20 cents a day to each of my patients—in order to give me an assured net income of $20,000 a year. And "that would mean only ten. regular examinations for me to make a week—which would leave a. considerable leeway for additional service to those who were actually ill.

A system such as this would, as a matter of fact, materially decrease the amount of sickness I would be called on to treat —-and, be it carefully noted, it would be distinctly to my advantage to keep my patients well. I should get my $20,000 a year if none of them became sick, and I would get no more for the extra work involved in treating those that did.

Some other specific wastes could be eliminated to reduce my operating costs, as follows:

1.	The outlay of time and effort per patient is much less if he can come to my office than if I have to make a trip to his home—as I usually do when he is even slightly ill.

2.	All diseases are easier to treat when they are in their incipient stages. By catching them early, the outlay necessary to produce a cure is far less than it otherwise would be.

3.	If I knew more precisely the amount of business I would do, and if its flow were stabilized, I could plan the use of my time with far less waste.

Digitized by kjOOQle
210

All these economies could be carried even further if I pooled my own business—at least to a certain extent—with that of a group of other physicians. 'Without giving up our individual professional independence, we might share a good many overhead expenses which each one of us now has to bear entirely himself. We might share in the upkeep of an office building —heat, janitor and nursing service, and so on. We might use cooperatively a wide range of highly expensive and specialized meaical apparatus which no one of us would use continuously alone, and often could not afford to buy independently. We could have our own subsidiary services of various kinds— roentgen ray, photography, laboratory, and so on. If I could cut down on my overhead in this way, I could reduce my costs even further without reducing my profits.

Whether medical costs can be reduced far enough for the profession to be put on a strictly business basis I do not know. On this point we should get invaluable evidence from the Committee on the Cost of Medical Care. No one knows today even how much medical service costs, or in what proportion the burden of meeting it is divided. Much less can any otae make a guess as to just how far the costs can be reduced.

I am not enough of a preacher to believe in miracles. I know that this problem of the high cost of sickness cannot be solved over night. I am not sure that it can be completely solved in a lifetime. But I do see certain practical and concrete ways in which progress is now being made toward a solution. I also see other ways in which further progress might be made.

Why should we not have what might be called “medical guilds?” Suppose a group of fifteen or twenty physicians should get together and pool their resources in the creation of an efficient business organization—owned and operated by them —for dispensing medical service on the basis of a periodic examination for a fixed annual fee. Might not such groups, widely organized throughout the country, go further than any agency has yet gone in the solution of our problem?

Consider what these medical guilds might do. Among the members of a guild one or two would be skilled general diagnosticians, the others would be specialists in the various branches of medical science—a nose and throat specialist, a gynecologist, a pediatrician, one or two dentists, a neurologist or two, and so on. All of them would have their offices in the same building. They would all share in the operating overhead and in the expense of those facilities and apparatus which might be used jointly by them. They would employ an expert in scientific business management to carry on their business operations, such as upkeep and management of the plant, and accounting.

They would offer their services not as individuals but as an organization. They would sell to the public not ten or fifteen separate and disconnected special branches of medical care but

Digitized by kjOOQle
211

a well rounded, complete and self-contained medical service. The guild’s patients would not be put to the exasperating nuisance of going from one end of the city to another, from one physician, with his one set of questions and records, to another, in search of specialized advice on one or more angles of their particular disabilities. The guild's general diagnostician would refer each patient to the guild specialist best equipped to give the special treatment indicated—In the same building and using a single set of records.

Such a guild of physicians would create a modem collective substitute for the family doctor. While it can never, of course, convey the sense of an individual personality to its patients, it might at least furnish a single organization which would minister to all their ills. They would feel that in going to it they would get the best kind of treatment, no matter what their ailments might be. It would also apply to the practice of medicine those basic principles of scientific management which have worked Sbch wonders in the business world.

Symptoms of an “Athletic Heart" and their Prognostic Significance with Referene to Duration of Life

Dr. Felix Deutsch, Vienna

Translated by Leopold F. Zwarg

The question whether athletics* influence the duration of life is timely. It has been proven that athletics influence the organism, either beneficially or otherwise. It is tho supposed purpose of athletics to increase capacity to perform with a minimum expenditure of energy. It may therefore be expected that the organs become more capable of resistance, that the physiological involution of age may be postponed and life lengthened. However, investigations have shown that indiv*duals may be subject to certain metabolic changes during athletic exertion wh’ch may become permanent. Such changes do not constitute' adaptability to greater performance; they must be regarded as detrimental to health and capable of shortening life.

An answer to the question seems possible only through research. Groups of individuals who have been engaged in athletics, systematically and from boyhood up, must be compared, age for age, with groups of individuals who have not participated in athletics. It must be determined statistically, first, whether the first group shows a greater percentage of

•The Germans use the term “Sport” and “Sport heart” for our terms “Athletics” and “Athletic Heart”.

Digitized by t^ooQle
212

longevous persons and secondly, whether certain causes of death are more frequent among individuals of the first group. Such investigations give promise of success because they may be limited to the essential organs, namely heart and blood vessels. Inasmuch as present mass statistics snow very plainly the mortality caused by heart and circulatory diseases, especially among the higher age groups, it would be an easy matter to compare an athletic group with these statistics. If the influence of athletics is favorable, we should find a decrease in that type of mortality which is caused by heart and circulatory diseases, beyond the age of fifty, the age in which such diseases are prevalent. In the athletic group we should find such mortality at a later age, or else replaced by other causes of death.

There are hardly any other ways to prove the point. Vague assertions or opinions, especially that moderate athletics increase life and that, on the other hand, excessive athletics decrease life, as shown by changes in heart and kidneys, are unscientific and prove nothing. It may be pointed out that up to the present time no autopsy has ever revealed the 'cause oj death to be due to an athletic heart only.	. ,	.

To draw any conclusions as to how an athletic heart may influence life, we must adjudge all symptoms which have so far come under the meaning of “Athletic Heart,” beside the criteria already mentioned.

The opinion still prevails that an athletic heart, although strong, is a deficient heart, because of the strongly marked hypertrophy of its muscle, which uses up all reserve strength. In case of a renewed or special demand upon such a heart, it may fail suddenly and entirely. This idea needs a thorough correction in toto. If it were correct, such heart conditions would have to be classed with the other valvular deficiencies, where the function is kept up by an hypertrophy of the left or right heart. There is evidence that such hearts are different. Work experiments with body types yield the fact that only those with deficient hearts, not those with athletic hearts, suffer from interruption in the processes of oxidation, acidity of the blood, and pressure of carbondioxide in the alveoli. These are all indications of insufficient ability to maintain circulation.

Therefore, quite other criteria must be used to evaluate the so-called athletic heart. The changes in the athletic heart— its size, shape and strength—are not, or only to a minor extent, the result of processes within the heart itself, but of peripheric disturbances and changes. We must not overlook the fact that if all organs of circulation function perfectly, the condition known as athletic heart cannot appear. The indications of an athletic heart are to be found not only in the heart, but peripherally in the blood vessels, and in the workings of the whole organism. During an athletic exertion, a variety of processes affect the circulation, and deficiency of function in any one place may show changes in the heart. The primary disturbance need not be in the heart, it may be found for example in the capillary system

Digitized by

Google
213

of the muscles involved. During a dash, the muscles of the legs must be frequently contracted, blood must enter in greater quantity in order to furnish material for energy. To be able to receive the additional blood, the finest capillaries as well as the larger arteries and veins distend th?mselvas, probably because of chemical stimuli. This demands a certain elasticity on the part of thesa vessels. If this elasticity is lost or diminished, it will mean diminished adaptability. It is known that loss of adaptability is caused by age, also by straining vessels whose walls are already weak.

Sclerosis of the arteries has been found in individuals doing heavy work. Blacksmiths, washerwomen, and certain others are said to suffer from sclerosis in the arms, and farmers are said to suffer in the legs. Whether this phenomenon is present in athletes has not been investigated, but it is entirely possible.

The consequences of a diminished elasticity are, on the one hand, a lessened capacity to receive blood and, on the other hand, a lessened flow, even in the veins. If. the flow in the veins becomes stagnant, the arteries become less able to empty themselves. A tremendous enlargement of capillary surface is necessary to produce the oxygen required during heavy muscular work. The insufficient ability of the vessels to speed up the flow of blood and to adapt themselves to different needs causes insufficient nutrition of the tissues, so that during exertion there may occur an assimilation of acid split products. This in turn may lead to a local acid condition of the tissues. The more extended the area, the more damage to the so-called internal respiration. Such a condition is followed by increased external respiration, or increased	frequency	causing short breath.	Even	before

that moment	arrives, a strong heart will try to	overcome the

resistance of	the vessels	by stronger contractions. But	if the

flow of blood	is lessened	too much, as in the case	of less	elastic

vessels, the blood will back up and force first the right, n.-xt the left heart to take up more blood. This means enlargement. To combat this, and to maintain circulation as well, the heart resorts to stronger beats, with increased pressure, or it increases the number of beats. Both processes induce the condition known as athletic heart.

Capacity to perform, when viewed with reference to the periphery of the circulatory system, is not dependent upon the condition of single vessels, but upon the adaptability of the total system. The capacity need not be diminished, even if vessels of large and medium size have lost their elasticity, as long as the peripheral system can react sufficiently to chemical and nervous stimuli, and as long as the heart is able to overcome the heightened resistance. Reversely, the circulation may break down because of a diseased periphery, even though the central vessels remain intact.

The prognosis of a heart which was once an athletic heart depends upon several factors. First one must consider the condition of the peripheral vessels whose resistance with each load of

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
214

work has to be overcome with a greater expenditure of energy by the heart. If the resistance of these vessels becomes stronger through sclerotic conditions, then finally, if the athletic activity is continued, the heart can no longer overcome the increased resistance, and compensation is no longer possible. The inception of this condition ig, however, not to be feared since other symptoms precede and alleviate this condition considerably. These symptoms manifest themselves in shortness of breath and compel the victim to withdraw from further participation. Only professional athletes who are forced to keep up the same standard of performance are subject to permanent harm. It is characteristic that professional athletes have reached the peak of their performance before the end of their twenties, if injuries have not forced them out of competition before. Their frequent competitive exertions use up heart and circulatory organs prematurely. But it is astonishing how the large hearts of such athletes may recede to their original size without showing any traces of insufficiency. From data furnished by clubs which promote endurance tests such as running, football, swimming, rowing, and bicycling, we do not find an excessive mortality from diseases of heart and blood vessels. Rowing seems to put the heaviest demand upon the heart. Therefore, we asked the Austrian Rowing Association for data. Its members are obliged to abstain from smoking and drinking during training, a fact which makes the data more valuable. We received answers from eleven clubs and considered those answers which come from clubs existing over thirty years. A careful evaluation was necessary. Individuals who died during the last 15 years may have been affected by hardships suffered during the war. We can establish a relationship between the causes of death and athletics only if the following three factors are known, namely how long the individual competed, his age, and the length of time which elapsed between the time when he stopped competing and death.

The records of a club existing 55 years were satisfactory. They are tabulated below.

Length of	Disc't.	Row-

Membership	ing	at

Disease	Age	Years	No.ofYrs.	Competed	age

1.	Tuberculosis	42	4	3 Until 1 before death	41
2.	Pneumonia	46	10	10 Until 6 before death	40
3.	Apoplexy	34	8	8 Until 3 before death	31
4.	Tuberculosis	50	10	10 Until 2 before death	48
5.	Tuberculosis	46	18	18 Until 6 before death	40
6.	"Softening of brain	48	10	10 Until 3 before death	45
7.	Tuberculosis	45	20	20 Until 3 before death	42
8.	Pneumonia	47	11	10 Until 3 before death	44
9.	Heart Disease	54	12	11 Until 6 before death	48
10.	Tumor	57	30	30 Until 5 before death	52
11.	Arterio-sclerosis	57	30	30 Until 0 before death	56
12.	Tuberculosis	41	13	12 Until 1 before death	40
215

The table shows that only one member died relatively young because of heart disease. An interesting case is No. 11. This individual may have worn down his blood vessels through rowing.

The other ten clubs, in existence between 30-50 years, gave only the number of deceased and the causes of their death. Among 78 deceased, there was only one, aged 51, who had a “heart stroke". Later inquiries revealed that he had rowed ten years, uj> to his 34th year. His heart trouble was traced to several diseases contracted during the war.

From the fact that of 90 cases of death among rowers with long practice, only two died of heart and circulatory diseases we may conclude that an athletic heart is not a factor in shortening the life of an individual. Whether the peripheric circulatory system is affected, is uncertain. Athletes usually follow health rules and abstain from alcohol and nicotine, two poisons known to damage blood vessels. It is known that, apart from the wearing down processes mentioned, the peripheric vessels show changes after infections of various kinds, especially influenza. Observations of many athletes having suffered from infections have convinced us that their circulatory system does not break down any sooner than that of others who have not had infections.

After acute infections, as scarlet fever, grippe, and others, certain individuals showed a sudden increase in the size of the heart in spite of the fact that their performance was up to standard. This would indicate peripheric changes. In such cases we must assume that without control a prognosis of life would be unfavorable.

A second factor making a prognosis difficult, lies in certain changes of metabolism, which may influence unfavorably organs serving as depots of blood. In diseases of the thyroid gland the use of oxygen increases excessively. Blood held normally in the liver, spleen and larger capillaries for recovery during the working process, is drawn upon too soon. This slows up the processes of recovery. The loss of oxygen is not regained and the tissues are not rid of waste material before a new effort begins. In such cases an enlarged heart will not only stay so but becomes still larger with further effort. The heart then cannot maintain circulation by stronger contractions, so it increases the frequency of the pulse rate.

In the same category come diabetics, who at rest show no deposit of sugar in the urine, but who after effort deplete their sugar deposits rapidly and resort to their depots of protein and fat. This creates an acidity of the tissues with all the consequences described. It is known that frequently athletes secrete sugar in the urine after competition, and that such athletes fatigue sooner than others. However, we cannot generalize. Heavy diabetics, subject to uric acid poisoning, have been observed to engage in most strenuous athletic performances and remain physically fit. Through proper training and strict regulation

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
216

of diet they have been able to improve their metabolism. During the war, many cases of early diabetes were checked and even cured, in spite of the frequent exertions and unfavorable conditions. However, this physical exertion cannot be compared to the tremendous physical as well as nervous energy expended in competition.

A third element, making the prognosis of a sport heart precarious, are constitutional factors. In a series of investigations of large scope we found that athletes who came from families in which heart diseases occur, have an extraordinary disposition to develop an athletic heart. Observations of twins revealed the fact that if one suffered from valvular trouble, the partner, in a largj percentage of cases, had a predisposition toward a permanent dilation of the heart, even though neither heart nor capillary system showed any symptoms of defect. These individuals were forbidden to compete on the assumption of punctum mmous resistentia.

In summarizing one may say that the athlete’s haart is normal in every way and that the chances for longevity of the athlete are favorable provided, first that during competition sufficient rest periods intervene at the right time, second that no infection sets in at this time, and third that no constitutional weakness exists which might impair the efficiency of the heart. It is not to be supposed that an athlete’s heart which has been developed in youth, will show symptoms which indicate a shortening of life. In no case is the athlete’s heart to be classed with a heart which has suffered valvular or muscular deficiencies.

Quite generally speaking the whole question is an anamnesti complex. Not that there is great danger in an athlete’s heart in healthy persons; but parsons with constitutional circulatory deficiencies or even tendencies may suffer damage. —Leibemebungen und Koerperliche Erziehung.

The Practice of Sports Among the Indians

of America

R. Blasiz

Translated by Fred E. Foertsch

The author states that he gathered his information from Richard N. Wegner, a noted South American athlete. The account was first published in the “Umschau” 1932.

According to Wegner’s observations the physical activities engaged in by South American natives were not designed to train for the use of weapons of war. Sports held an important place in the life of the Indian because of the religious significance attached to them. A victory brought to the members of a particular group the highest glory of the gods and held in abeyance the

Digitized by LaOOQle
217

evil spirits. It was their belief that sickness, sterility, and mis* fortune do not follow in the wake of the victor and the members of his group. Much more, victory is sufficient to make atonement unnecessary and has the power to free a person from even a death penalty. This accounts for the fact that the Indians entered competition with great emotional feeling.

Certain practices related to the outcomes of the contests as well as certain peculiar customs accompanied the contests. For instance, betting on teams or certain athletes was quite a common practice. Some even risked all their worldly possessions in the gambling adventures. Preparations for the contests were highly important. The contestants held watch all night, they fasted, they adhered to strict dietary rules, and they refrained from contacts with the opposite sex.

The Indian artist Catlin who lived among the wildest tribes about the tenth century describes a game which is very much like Lacrosse. In this game a racket was used. He states that the ball was tossed up in the air in mid-field by a neutral person. The object of the game was to put the ball, by means of the racket, tnrough the opponents’ goal which was at the end of the field. Whenever a goal was made there came a rest period of about a minute before resuming the contest. To win a game a team had to score one hundred goals. Before the game was started the goals were erected with much ceremony, including songs and the beating of drums. The racket which was used was similar to our tennis racket but the handle was somewhat longer and the surface area was slightly smaller. Often the racket consisted of a stick with a semi-circular hook at one end to which a net was attached. A racket of this kind was found in an old grave in Nazca. This racket, however, was smaller than the one described by Catlin and was probably the toy of a child.

Certain phenomena in nature determined the time when athletic festivals were to be held. The Indians felt that by following the signs of nature the evil spirits could best be appeased. Thus the Indians of North America with the first snowfall placed a snowshoe on the end of a highly decorated pole, placed it erect in the ground, and proceeded to dance around the pole in a gliding fashion.

In South America the Indians were interested in certain water sports, in feats of skill, and running events. On Lake Titicaca they engaged in boat races. The boats used were very crude and were made of bulrushes. At the head of the Amazon River many races in canoes were held. Races in sailing boats were engaged in with great enthusiasm.

The Uracare Indians were much interested in deflecting an arrow from its path after being shot from a bow. It was common practice to shoot at a human target. The arrow was aimed at shoulder level and slightly to one side of the one representing the target. As the arrow came towardAthe one representing the

Digitized by CjOOQle
218

target it was his business to strike it down or deflect it from its path with a knife just as it passed by him.

In the mountainous regions of South America and Mexico the Indians were particularly efficient in running. Among the Taharumara tribes in northern Mexico it was rot uncommon to see whole villages come together to participate in running contests. The representatives from each village were distinguished by different colored head bands. Competition took place on a circular track which had been staked off. The running course was, however, not prepared as in modem days. It was left as nature had developed it. The length of the course varied for 3 to 15 miles. Endurance races of various lengths were promoted, some of which reached a distance of 145 miles. The. Spaniards in their conquest of Peru found that the Indians had well organized across country relay teams which were used for delivering messages and fresh sea food to the capitol at Inka and to other parts of the country. Even today in some parts of Bolivia and Peru the mail is carried by such means.

Antagonistic contests were also enjoyed by the Indians. In many places pushing contests with the use of padded shields were common. Each contestant held the shield in front of himself and in contact with that of his opponent. Each tried to push the other out of a certain area or attempted to make him fall. The Karaja and the Savaje tribes in South America often entertained and feasted visitors, but before the feast could take place a series of wrestling matches were engaged in. Dancing youths came forth and challenged the visitors to matches. In these wrestling matches victory came to the one who succeeded in putting his opponent’s back to the ground. After the wrestling bouts were concluded the visitors were feasted and entertained.

Among the Paressi-Kabisi tribes the youths had to pass a strength test before they could be admitted to the field of activities of adult men. The apparatus used for testing the strength was peculiar. It consisted of two heavy uprights which were placed securely in the ground and about a meter apart. In each upright there was a hole. The holes were so placed that a horizontal bar of wood could be drawn through them slightly below the level of the shoulders of the youth. The youth then stepped under this horizontal bar and by means of an upward push from the back and shoulders attempted to break the bar.

Ball games which were similar to our game of soccer were played by a number of tribes in the territory extending from Brazil to Chaco. As far back as 1726 the Jesuit missionairies were astonished by the skill these people displayed. Father Fernandez gives us the first description of this game. The teams all consisted of 4 to 6 members. The ball was made of a sort of crude rubber and had a diameter of about 3 1-2 to 4 1-2 inches. The game was begun by tossing the ball into the air. The players then volleyed it back and forth with their heads. A ball which had fallen to the ground could not be picked up. The players had to use their foreheads to get it into play again. The

Digitized by ^.oogle
219

object of the game was to keep the ball in the air. The side which allowed the ball to fall five times lost the game. The Jesuit GumiUa also observed a similar type of game in another section of the country but here the ball had to be propelled with the right shoulder instead of with the head. Among the ancient tribes of Central America a similar game was played but here they used their hips and buttocks. The field here was divided into 4 parts. At each end of the field a stone ring was erected against a wall and each team tried to put the ball through the opponent’s goal. Points were scored each time the ball struck the wall which the opponents were defending. A definite number of points decided the winner. If, however, the ball was put through the ring the game was won regardless of the points previously scored.

Hockey was also a familiar game to the Indians. In Chaco the natives were very fond of this game. The sticks used were very light and were formed from the middle ribs of palm leaves. The field had goals similar to those of today, one at each end. The object was to put the ball through the opponent’s goal. Rules were also enforced. Striking the opponent’s shins or legs was prohibited. Sometimes guards were made and used as a protection for the thighs. It was not uncommon to see older men participate, frequently with much enthusiasm. Even though they were no longer fit to play in the most active positions, they at least served as goal tenders. —und Koer-perliche Erziehung.

FLASHES FROM THE FIELD

James Edward Rogers, Director, National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Association.

The Office of Education, Department of Interior, has published a veiy important study that will be of interest to teacher training institutions and also administrators of health and physical education. This is Bulletin 1932—No. 10. The title is Physical Education and Health Education as a Part of all General Teacher-Training Curricula.

*****

Very good news comes from the State of Washington from our good friend, Mr. J. Fred Bohler of the State College at Pullman, who writes:—

“It will, no doubt, be of interest for you to know that in the recent Educational Code sent out by the State Superintendent of Education, N. D. Showalter, he has included courses in health and physical education. In other words, starting in 1934 health and physical education are to be taught in all of our public schools in this state, so we are making a step in the right direction.”

Digitized by Google
220

Dr. N. D. Showalter, State Superintendent, had been very-much interested and hoped to have had a State Director, but unfortunately the depression and the economy have made that impossible. But it is significant that in the whole state health ana physical education is now a definite subject in the school curriculum.

The State College of Washington has a very good teacher training course. They are now on a five year basis. A number of institutions feel that five years is essential for a complete, broad grasp of the field of health and physical education. Mr.

J.	Fred Bohler has been a tower of strength and leadership in the northwest in agitating for state wide health and physical education and in the formation of the Northwest Physical Education Section of the A. P. E. A.

* * * * *

Superintendent George C. Cole of Indiana has appointed

Mr. Thomas H. Mahan as Acting State Director of Health and

Physical Education to succeed Mr. H. E. Moore who has become

County Superintendent of Terre Haute County. Mr. Moore

did an excellent job during the past two years in setting up

standards and policies for the whole state of Indiana. He worked

very closely with the teacher training institutions. Great progress

has been made in Indiana during the past two years in the

development of a state wide program.

* * * * *

Professor Clark Hetherington is very busy at Stanford University writing and it is hoped that some of his writings will soon be published. Recent letters received from the great philosopher of our profession convinces one that he has a real message for the profession and it is hoped that his material will be published very soon.

*****

“Physical Education in North Carolina is by no means ignored in spite of the present crisis in education. For the first time in its history, our Guilford County, North Carolina, has a county director in Physical Education. More than one of our nearby rural communities, Brown Summit, N. C., being the last to come to my attention, has erected a school gymnasium which is also serving as a center for community recreation. Even in these lean and hungry times, encouragement is not lacking.”

Mary C. Coleman, The U. of No. Car. Greensboro. *****

“We will attempt to wind up with conclusions and recommendations outlining what would seem to be the most desirable minors to be recommended for teacher training institutions. In our own institution, we have our under-graduate majors take a double major, one in Education and the other in Physical Education and in addition a fourteen unit minor in Biological Sciences and a similar fourteen unit minor in the Social Sciences. This gives them a very comprehensive background of subject material for supplementary teaching.
221

Grant’s study, I think, will give us some pretty good material on which to recommend the types of minors to be included. Doubtless it would be highly desirable if such a study could be carried on extensively throughout the country and result in a rather general adoption of standard minors for those carrying a major in the Physical Education field.”

Wm. R. LaPorte—U. of So. Calif., Los Angeles. *****

“It may be of interest for you to know that the new high school curriculum in the State of Washington has included health and physical education as one of its basic courses in the first two years of high school. This means five hours a week devoted to this subject for two years, and being a basic subject, it must be taught in every high school in the State of Washington and to every student. The State Board of Education asks that all schools make an attempt to get their programs under way because it becomes mandatory a year from this September.”

‘I am chairman of the Northwest Section of the American Physical Educational Association for the coming year, and I hope to get a good program under way. My work in that direction will start soon. The meeting next Apnl will, I think, be in Spokane as has been the case for the past twenty years.”

H. H. House, The State College of Washington,

Pullman, Washington—Sept. 15, 1933. *****

Miss Anne Hodgkins, formerly the Field Secretary of the Women’s Branch of the National Amateur Athletic Federation, is now with the Girls Service Club, in charge of the recreational work, and is enjoying her work: very much. The Girls Service Clubs operate four buildings for unemployed girls and have a recreational program.

THE MEDICAL SIDE OF ATHLETICS.

But there is another side to athletics—a medical side. I don’t refer to the part that athletics has in developing the body. I refer to the importance of medical supervision in all sports, whether in school, in college, or in after years. The desirable competitive element in athletics puts on each participant a physical strain; he tends to exert himself beyond his normal limits of fatigue. It is, I believe, a generally accepted fact that a man of college age with no defect of heart or lungs, in good health, and well trained, cannot injure his health— primarily in this case his heart—by the most strenuous exertion which he is capable of making. But notice the qualifications imposed upon that statement—maturity, good heart, good lungs, and training. The converse of my statement is likewise true: a man whose heart or lungs are defective, who is not in good health, who is immature, or who is not in training, may seriously and permanently injure his health by the overexertion induced in too strenuous competitive athletics.

Digitized by t^.ooQle
222

With these facts thoroughly recognized, medical supervision has become an indispensable part of safe athletics. In our colleges especially—and I wish I could say the same for our schools where, with the immature boys and girls, the need is even greater —this medical supervision is receiving increasingly greater attention. Already in nearly all of our colleges each contestant in any form of athletics is given a complete medical examination to determine physical fitness for that particular competitive sport. These health audits in our more progressive colleges include as a regular part x-ray pictures of the lungs and heart to serve as a permanent record for comparison in subsequent examinations and to do away with guesswork in this type of examination. I wish that this movement to remove a possible health hazard from competitive sport would extend more rapidly into our elementary schools. There is a particular need there for the medical examination and until it has come in fully, the duty of supplying it for each boy or girl rests on the parent.

But perhaps the most serious health hazard from athletics comes after school and college years. The man who trained and played football or raced in school or college takes his place at a desk or a bench. He no longer keeps up his athletics regularly. As years go by the muscles soften and fat is accumulated. As the muscles of the legs and arms become flabby so also does the muscle of the heart, and to an even greater extent. For such a man the sets of tennis or even rounds of golf played on a strenuous weekend may be a much greater strain upon health than was football or track during school days. Too often this fact is found out only after health is injured. You have read, I am sure, of middle-aged men falling dead upon the golf course.

The athletic activities of the man past thirty are rarely supervised, the man himself is rarely in good physical condition. But although his vital organs may be already weakening he has not lost his athletic spirit. He still has the schoolboy’s competitive enthusiasm. He still wants to win, wants to drive his body to the spurt that the flesh is no longer capable of giving. It is among such men as this—and they are legion— that ill-advised and over-strenuous athletics may become a distinct hazard to health and life.

But don’t let such men give up their athletics; by all means they should continue in some athletic endeavor, but let it be of a nature suited to their changing physical state. This physical state can be determined only by thorough physical examinations —health audits. No man, young or old, can safely engage in athletics of any sort unless nis physical state is first determined by a medical examination.

Let us, young and old alike, follow the Grecian ideal in athletics. Let us be a nation which admires and strives for per-

fection of physical development and good sportsmanship. But let us attain this end in safety; athletics are to build and not to destroy health. Let us remove the possible health hazard from too severe competitive athletics by regular medical examinations.
MIND AND BODY

Vol. 40	Dec.—Jan. 1933-34	No.	416-17

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Emil Rath, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

Carl L. Schrader, Boston, Massachusetts.

James E. Rogers, Director National Physical Education Service, National Recreation Asso., New York.

Grover W. Mueller, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.,

Editorial communications are to be sent to GROVER W. MUELLER, Editor. 504 Administration Bldg., Parkway at 21st St. Philadelphia, Pa.

Subscription payments should be made to Mind & Body, New Ulm, Minn. Entered as second-class matter October 14, 1916, at the postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesotat under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Editorial Comment

Relatively small reductions in school physical education programs have been made throughout the country, and only a few cases of entire elimination have been reported. In one of the largest cities in the East the Board of Education as an economy measure has just voted to close all summer schools and nearly all evening schools, but at the same time it decided to reopen all summer playgrounds and even expressed the hope of increasing the number. It is encouraging to know that the future health of our boys and girls as well as their preparation for better use of leisure time in the present and in the years to come is being safeguarded.

However, the wise administrator and teacher is now using every means at his command to educate the public concerning the value and importance of physical education because he realizes that unless there is a very material upturn in economic conditions within the next few months, the coming year will witness a further great slashing of school budgets everywhere, and the axe will fall heaviest on those subjects and activities which in the public mind are of least importance.

Most important of the objectives in physical education are those concerning the physical health, growth, and development of the individual. It is in this direction that physical education makes its peculiar and distinctive contribution, the only contribution made by the school which is not also claimed by any other part of the curriculum. Let us fix this fact indelibly on our minds. The best and surest progress of our profession in the public schools can be assured only on this basis, and the very existence of a physical education program in many communities is and always will be dependent on it.

Objectives concerning development of moral social conduct, those dealing with recreation, and others are of great importance and therefore should be recognized as major objectives by the teacher and should be strived for con-

Digitized by ^.ooQle
224

sciously by him. But to push each forward in turn as our main objective whenever a favorable wind blows is a mistake which in the long run can do us no good.

We are indebted to Dr. Walter S. Cornell for the interesting article on Correlation Between Physical and Health Education and The School Medical Inspection Service which appears in this issue. Dr. Cornell is eminently fitted to discuss this subject, having had many years experience as a school medical inspector and supervisor as well as Director of the Division of School Medical Inspection in Philadelphia. Dr. Cornell was recently elected to the position of President of the Philadelphia County Medical Society, the highest honor in the County which can come to a medical man. His opinions and suggestions are those of a practical man who has had to meet the many obstacles which arise in real situations.

The unwritten early history of physical and health education in many cities of this country would provide interesting reading and it would make a real contribution to the general history of physical education. Mind and Body will be pleased to receive material on this subject from cities in which it is possible to dig up the information.

The data for the article which appears in this issue was obtained from old minutes of meetings of the Philadelphia Board of Education. Many interesting details have been omitted because of limited space.

A Brief Early History of Physical and Health Education in the Philadelphia Public Schools

Grover W. Mueller

Early Interest In Physical And Health Education

Physical Education

During the first three decades of the nineteenth century, physical education had begun to gain wide acceptance in several European countries. This was especially true in Germany and Sweden. The influence of the movement in these countries began to be felt strongly in the United States before the turn of the middle of the century, and we find that the eighteen hundred and fifties marked a period of pronounced nation-wide interest in physical development. During this and the next decade many colleges and universities in the eastern United States constructed gymnasiums and organized departments of physical education. The Philadelphia Tumgemeinde was established about 1849. In 1851, the American Tumerbund [Gymnastic Union], which was destined to become the most important single influence in the introduction of physical education in the public schools of the United States, was organized in Philadelphia. Two years later this city became

Digitized by CjOOQle
225

the seat of the National Executive Committee of the Tumerbund.

The first courses for the training of teachers of physical education in this country were given by Dr. Dio Lewis in Boston in 1861. The Tumerbund opened its training school in New York in 1866. Three years later, the first two Y. M. C. A. buildings with gymnasiums were opened in San Francisco and in New York. Articles which appeared from time to time in the American Journal of Education, in the Atlantic Monthly and elsewhere, and the increasing number of lecturers in the field, gave further evidence of the rising interest in physical education.

This new development in education made its impress on local educators. In 1860 a teacher was appointed to teach elocution and calisthenics in the Normal School. The facilities were meager and the activity was chiefly a daily exercise in the use of dumb bells. Later on exercises with the wand were added. The hope was expressed that physical culture would be extended to all the schools of the city so that Philadelphia could keep in step with New York and Boston. Nine years later the principal of the Normal School reported that physical education was now an essential part of the school; that the pupils appreciate its worth both physically and mentally; and that, in the future, graduates will go forth as well qualified to teach this subject as any other pursued in the Normal School.

In the 1867 report of the Board of Controllers, the president of that organization asked for physical exercises in all grades through the use of two or three well trained teachers, stating that he regarded the exercises as more important than mental culture. In the following year we find physical education listed as a subject in primary and grammar grades for the first time. In the Course of Study we read: “The teacher shall be required to devote the period of ten minutes during the course of each school session, to such physical exercises as the size of the room and other circumstances may permit. During the course of these exercises the windows shall be opened, if found prudent to do so.”

The Course of Study in 1870 for primary, secondary [not high school] and grammar grades was somewhat more specific in stating aims and types of exercise. Particular attention was to be given to full breathing, to position, and to such exercise of the arms and shoulders as would tend to increase the capacity of the lungs and chest, and develop the muscles and bones of the arms and shoulders; also exercises in exploding correctly the simple vowel sounds. In 1877 a sli ght change was made in the course for primary grades, as follows: Grade 1—Ex. 7. Erect sitting position and the movement of body right and left, backward and forward. Ex. 2. Erect standing position and then movement of the head and body. Ex. 3. Deep breath—in through the nostrils, and slow expulsion of the breath.

In 1875 the Social Science Association which had investigated hygienic conditions of the schools, reported with regard to physical education that conditions are unfavorable in most classrooms,

Digitized by LjOOQle
226

but some form of exercise should be indulged in at set periods every day.	*4

Another milestone was reached in 1875 when physical education in the Girls' High and Normal School was permitted to stand on its own feet for the first time by separating it from elocution and placing it in a separate department. Until the organization of the Division of Physical Education with a director and supervisors, this department of physical education exerted a strong influence on whatever curricular physical activities were conducted in the Philadelphia elementary schools.

In 1879, graded Courses of Instruction for physical exercises in all school grades, 1 to 13, were prepared. They were to be taught from three to five minutes during every hour, but it is doubtful that many teachers gave instruction in this field. The courses consisted largely of exercises in sitting and standing properly, in correct breathing, singing and vocal expression in accordance with the system of some accepted manual. Chest development was emphasized.

The situation as it existed with regard to curricular physical education at this time continued with little change until 1890; that is, it was restricted in actual practice almost wholly to the Girls' High and Normal School. It should be noted, however, that in 1880 the boys of Central High School began to participate in interschool baseball, football, cricket, and tennis and that these sports were managed entirely by the pupils. Later, several members of the faculty of that high school became interested in mass participation in athletics, and the first interclass track meet was held at the reservoir.

Owing to the absence of a gymnasium or playground large enough to accommodate the Central High School, there was little opportunity for training and developing the body. However, the students in a measure made up for this deficiency by establishing an athletic association, and some effort in systematic training was made. Through the courtesy of the University of Pennsylvania two public exhibitions of this work were given on the grounds of the university. The question foremost in the minds of the faculty was: If the unassisted efforts of the students produce such happy results, may it not be wise to give them systematic training under instruction?

Health Education The first attempt at health education antedates physical education by twenty-two years. Lectures in comparative anatomy were given in 1838 in the newly established Boys’ High School at East Penn Square. Two years later we find the first evidence of instruction in first aid. In 1845, the Course of Study included lectures on hygiene, domestic medicine and surgery [first aid], and anatomy and physiology. The course called for one lecture period and two recitations each week for all classes.

It is not until 1848 that we find the Girls' Normal School planning to include physiology in the curriculum. We read that m 1853 instruction in chemistry and physiology was impart-

Digitized by Google
227

ed entirely by lecture and examination by the principal. The first reference to elementary schools is made in 1868 in the statement that the primary department, third division [2A grade] includes oral instruction upon the parts of the human body and of familiar animals. The Committee Report on the Revis'on of Studies [1877] marks the first appearance of a definite layout of content for all grades.

A very definite influence at this time was that of the various temperance organizations which sought to include the teaching of the evils of alcohol and tobacco into the study of physiology.

Formative Period

Physical Education

In the period elapsing between 1890 and 1906 there were several notable developments which mark important steps in the progress of physical education in the schools.

The work of girls in the higher schools continued to consist almost entirely of formal gymnastics, while that of the boys was restricted to athletics mainly in interschool competition. In the elementary schools it appears that only those teachers who cared to do so carried on the course of physical exrcises which had been prescribed. This decade, however, saw the development of interschool games in many of the elementary schools.

The Central Manual Training School in 1885 and the Northeast Manual Training School in 1890 were established as annexes of Central High School. In both schools athletics were immediately organized under student management. Many contests were played between the three local schools and with other higher schools, and members of the faculties began to take more and more interest and active part in the management of these interschool sports.

In 1891 The Board of Public Education decided to separate the Normal School and the Girls’ High School. A new building was erected for the Normal School which opened in 1893 with a gymnasium. The high school made provision for gymnastics every term in each of its three courses [general, classical, and business] under the direction of two special teachers of physical education. In the Normal School a “Course in Physical Culture based on a study of what may be called ’Educational Physiology,’ including consideration of the laws of health and various methods of gymnastic training,’’ was introduced. During the next year 1894, two additional special teachers were added. The three teachers in the Normal School and two in the Girls' High School made a total of five specialist, which continued to be the largest number in the school system until 1902. It should be noted that all were women.

By 1896 many cities and towns in the United States were giving physical education in the public schools. In many cities a director and assistants had been appointed to introduce and supervise the work of classroom teachers.

Digitized by
228

In 1894, the superintendent of the Philadelphia schools reported to The Board of Public Education that he had given serious consideration to the problem of physical education. While in a few of the schools some attention had been given to calisthenics, in most of them physical education was neglected. He called attention to the teacher’s disregard of the postural habits of the pupils and pointed out that such improper habits were detrimental to health and grace. In order to awaken teacher interest, the superintendent arranged for two lectures to be given by a national authority.

The result was a voluntary organization by teachers of classes in physical education. So that this interest should be extended to the teachers of the elementary schools, the department of physical education as then organized in the Normal School, prepared a lecture that illustrated a definite system of physical education applicable to boys and girls of the elementary school. This lecture was received favorably by many teachers and gave hope that the Normal School might prove a valuable aid to the introduction of a suitable physical education program in the public schools. However, no definite action was taken at this time to provide for the direction of physical education from a central authority. It was believed that the principals and teachers would be found competent to take charge of it if they were given the opportunity to prepare themselves more fully for the work.

This report by the superintendent indicates that even at that late date very little in the way of physical education was done in Philadelphia except in the Girls’ High School and the Normal School.

In the same report the superintendent recommended that military drills be introduced for the boys of the higher grades of the grammar school in order to provide “something more distinctly masculine” than a system of gymnastics. Such a recommendation is not strange when one considers the exercises which at that time comprised the adopted program of gymnastics. During the same year the Board Committee on Central High School offered a resolution that the Board communicate with the proper authorities at Washington and ask for a detail of one or more competent instructors to teach military tactics and drill in the Central High School and other schools under its jurisdiction. Fortunately, little or nothing developed as a result of either the superintendent’s recommendation or the committee’s resolution.

With the gradual development of the elementary schools there came in the latter years of the nineteenth century an increasing number of male teachers and principals. These men, having been educated in the Central High School and exposed to interschool athletics, were naturally interested in promoting athletics for their pupils. As a result a number of friendly games between neighboring schools began to take place. These games were for the most part confined to baseball. Interest in the games grew until in the early spring of 1900 representatives of ten or twelve grammar schools assembled in Central High

Digitized by L^ooQle
229

School to form the Grammar School Athletic League. In the years which followed the league rendered long and important service.

Two events of major importance to physical education took place during the latter part of this formative period. Foremost was the step taken by the Pennsylvania State Legislature in 1901 when it passed an act making regular physical training compulsory. In compliance with this act of assembly the supervision of this subject was given to the teacher of physical education at the Philadelphia Normal School. Each month a group of grade teachers consisting of one representative designated by the respective principals of the elementary schools, assembled and had explained to them the program for the ensuing month. Each representative in turn explained the program to the other teachers in her school.

The next year physical education was formally introduced by action of The Board of Public Education and a course of study was prepared for the elementary grades. Due to lack of supervision the effectiveness of this program of physical education was problematical. However, the superintendent of schools in 1903 reported that the course of study in physical education was successfully introduced into the elementary schools.

The other event of importance was that at this time the first two male teachers of physical education were appointed instructors at the Central High School. About the same time the Girls’ Commercial High School was established in the old Central High School building and a teacher appointed to teach hygiene and physical training.

Health Education

The main developments of the period 1890 to 1906 in health education were fust, The Report of the Committee on Revision of Studies that “The physiology of the grammar grades without a syllabus is too indefinite ana should be limited to the study of hygiene with particular reference to alcoholic stimulants and narcotics;” and second, The Report of the Committee on Hygiene which “Resolved: ‘That the superintendent be directed to amend the Course of Instruction in physiology for the elementary schools so that the technicalities will be removed from the study; and restrict it to the study of hygiene’.” In 1904 it was reported that the improvements suggested in the latter resolution had been made. The syllabus for the revised course was for the fifth grade to the eighth grade inclusive, and it seemed still to be rather general, the indication being that it was primarily a text book guide.

Playgrounds

While the progress of physical and health education was slowly going on during the last decade of the nineteenth century, another closely related movement was gaining prominence rapidly. We refer to the establishment of public playgrounds.
230

Sand gardens had been conducted in a few Boston school-yards as early as 1885. These were further developed in scope until in 1887 play leaders were provided and we have here the first organised school playgrounds. Interest in this activity spread rapidly over the country.

The birth of playgrounds in Philadelphia is to be found in the establishment of a summer kindergarten in the Stuart Memorial Church in 1893, and in the use of the Beck schoolyard for the same purpose. While not playgrounds in every sense of the modem conception, they were the seeds from which the movement grew. They were probably the culmination of a number of forces that had been working during the preceding few years. Many urgent requests that playgrounds be organized were received by The Board of Public Education from prominent civic leaders of the day, including such men as William H. Wana-maker, Rudolph Blankenburg, Russell H. Conwell, and superintendent of schools Dr. Edward Brooks. Practically all newspapers and every important civic organization joined in the plea. Diming the winter of 1893-94 the Civic Club conducted a series of meetings for the purpose of arousing favorable public opinion.

In 1894 the Board voted to continue the summer kindergartens and it appointed two teachers to take charge of the activities.

In 1895 the request of the Civic Club that four schoolyards be opened during July and August as playgrounds was granted by the Board. As a result the first real playgrounds were operated under the supervision of the director of kindergartens. These four playgrounds proved to be so successful that in 1896 the number was increased to twelve, and in 1897 twenty-one were conducted.

There has been no definite attempt formally to organize the program and management of the playgrounds by the director of kindergartens. But a new epoch began in 1898 with the appointment of a supervisor to organize and systematize the work. This supervisor immediately began instructing prospective playground teachers in philosophy, content and method. They were instructed how to manage a great number of players successfully, and to have cooperative as well as individual play without interference with the general freedom of play. Great care was to be exercised by the teachers to lead or govern the game through suggestion in order not to interfere with free choice and spontaneity. As character reveals itself through play, games were planned not only for physical development but also to develop and strengthen the moral growth of the child and to kindle a community spirit. The principal activities in the program consisted of general games, kindergarten ring games, sense gam as, kindergarten songs, and handwork.

Much of the equipment and supplies used during the early years of the playgrounds was donated by civic or community organizations. In many cases donations were made by individuals or manufacturing companies. City Councils displayed active

Digitized by v^ooQle
231

interest when it approved an appropriation of $1000.00 to equip public school playgrounds at its meeting on May 14, 1895.

From 1903 to 1905 we find the number of playgrounds increasing from 27 to 36. This growth in number was accompanied by expansion in the program to include elementary physical culture classes and a greater variety of games and handwork activities. Tha equipment of yards with apparatus and supplies continued to increase. Hundreds of bean bags were donated in the early years by the Civic Club, and sand and kindergarten material were furnished by; The Board of Public Education. Quoits, rope and boat swings, ring toss, raffia, colored cardboard, rolling logs, woolen dolls, and sliding boards were gradually provided.

During these years the steady increase in the number of playgrounds required continued effort in training teachers in the special methods of teaching and managing the playground activities. This training was given during meetings called and conducted by the supervisor of the playgrounds.

Division of Physical Education Inaugurated

The year 1907 marked the dawn of a new era in the physical education of the Philadelphia public schools. This was due entirely to the establishment by The Board of Public Education of a Division of Physical Education with a director and ten assistants. The first director was William A. Stecher, already a nationally prominent figure in his field, who was brought here from Indiana on the recommendation of Martin G. Brumbaugh, Superintendent of Schools. The great progress of physical education in its various forms in this city since that time has been due in the main to the wise leadership, the comprehensive knowledge, the scientific attitude, the indefatigable work, and the patience of Mr. Stecher.

The action of the Board in establishing a Division of Physical Education at this time came about as a result of several factors: the continued recommendations from various sources over a period of years; the fact that most other large cities had long since organized special departments to promote physical education; the Act of tne State Legislature in 1901 requiring instruction in this subject; and the wholehearted support given by Dr. Brumbaugh. The source of the strongest and most continuous pressure for action came undoubtedly from the Philadelphia Tumgemeinde, which had by 1907 enjoyed 57 years of successful existence as an institution fostering physical education. In its efforts to convince the school authorities, the Tumgemeinde was ably led by one of its members who was at that time also a member of The Board of Public Education.

INTERESTING AND VALUABLE MATERIALS.

James E. Rogers

I have received recently very practical and useful handbooks. Each deserves a review of the excellent material that it contains. However, space permits only a statement of their titles.

Digitized by v^ooQle
232

One would be tempted to quote at length from the Maryland Seasonal Program of Physical Activities for High School Boys and Girls or from the excellent handbook on the Prevention and Care of Athletic Injuries published by the National Collegiate Athletic Association. Dr. F. R. Rogers' report on the Progress of the Program in Quincy Senior High School is a most interesting one. Every director of a teacher training institution should have a copy of the Illinois report on the Recognition and Accrediting of Illinois Secondary Scnools.

1.	The Nature, Frequency, and Age Incidence of Injuries in Interscholastic Football, by N. P. Neilson, Chief, Division of Health and Physical Education, State Deparrment of Education, Sacramento, California.

2.	Handbook of Intramural Sports—1933-34 by the University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon.

3.	Handbook on The Prevention and Care of Athletic Injuries by the National Collegiate Athletic Association.

4.	A Seasonal Program of Physical Education Activities for High School Boys and Girls of Maryland issued by the State Department of Education, Baltimore, Maryland.

5.	Studies in the Start of the Sprint by W. W. Tuttle, State University of Iowa.

6.	Handbook of Intramural Athletics by West Virginia University.

7.	Basketball Play Situations—A Textbook for the Study of Rules and Game Procedure, published by the National Federation of State High School Athletic Associations, Chicago, Illinois.

8.	Readjustments in Athletic Programs by T. Nelson Metcalf reprinted by the University of Chicago Press.

9.	A Report of Progress in Corrective and Developmental Physical Education in the Quincy Senior High School issued by the Physical and Health Education Department of Quincy, Massachusetts.

10.	Hand Book of Graded Lessons in Physical Education for the Elementary Schools published by the Board of Education, Buffalo, N. Y.

11.	The Recognition and Accrediting of Illinois Secondary Schools issued by the State Superintendent of Public Instruction and the University of Illinois.

12.	Manual of Materials and Methods for Teachers of the Physical and Health Education Point Program for High School Boys issued by the Division of Physical and Health Education of the Department of Education, Montgomery, Alabama.

13.	Health in The Curriculum, Elementary Schools—Grades

I-VI published by the Kansas City Public Schools, Kansas City, Missouri.

14.	Handbook for Rural Parent Teacher Activities and Relationships published by the Department of Education, Sacramento, California.

15.	Tentative Course of Study in Physical and Health Education-Grades One to Eight, prepared under the direction of the

Digitized by v^ooQle
233

Division of Elementary and High School Inspection, Department of Public Instruction, Indianapolis, Indiana.

15.	Physical Education and Health Education As a Part of all General Teacher-Training Curricula—No. 10, published by the United States Department of the Interior, Office of Education, Washington, D. C.

16.	Standards in Physical Education by the Division of Physical and Health Education of the Department of Public Instruction, Trenton, N. J.

17.	Annual Report of Health Education in High Schools issued by the Division of Health Education, Board of Education, The City of New York.

18.	Physical Education Program issued by the Ohio County Schools.

BOOK REVIEWS

Fred E. Foertsch.

Health Section Report—World Federation of Education Associations; published by the American Child Health Association, New York City, 1932; paper bound 9 by 6 inches, 299 pages; price $1.00.

This publication contains the reports of representatives from fifteen different countries. It brings to us the plans and the progress made in the field of child health education in the various sections of the world.

The first few pages of the report set forth the lines along which the organization is working, the purposes and functions of the organization, and the progress which has been made thus far.

The contributions of the several representatives state clearly the efforts which are being made in each country to further the welfare of the child. Some of the reports place the chief emphasis upon medical and nursing services in the schools and its extension into the communities and nation as a whole. Others place more weight upon health education of the children and the teachers, and upon a sound program of physical education.

The reports of representatives from various sections of the United States and its territorial possessions are of particular interest to health education teachers. Here we have much material concerning the problems of integration in order to further health teaching. The problems of the classroom teacher, the organization of health education, student leadership, time allotment, selection of subject matter, health information tests, and teacher training and practice all form a significant part of this part of the report.

The volume concludes with an outline of future problems of the organization, resolutions of the health section and of the organization, a list of the officers and committees, and a detailed index.

Digitized by UjOOQle
234

This volume may be highly recommended for physical and health education teachers in both elementary and secondary schools.

Tennis Organized, by Dorothy Randle and Marjorie Hillas; published by A. S. Barnes and Co., New York, 1932; clothbound 5 by 7 1-2”; 165 pages, 26 illustrations, 144 diagrams; price $1.60.

The authors of this book are the first women instructors in the field of physical education to contribute a treatise on the subject of tennis which includes practical technical knowledge applicable to mass instruction.

The ideal way of teaching this activity is in small groups where it is possible to gain advantage of individual coaching and practice. Unfortunately this cannot be done in the majority of teaching situations and, as a result, tennis as an activity has been left to the resourcefulness of the interested pupil and limited to only those who were willing to find ways and means of obtaining information from other sources. The contents of this book endeavor to explain in a most understandable technical manner a type of organization which has proved successful in teaching tennis to groups and thus aids the inexperienced instructor to add this activity to her physical education curriculum as another group activity.

“Tennis Organized” contains a mass of valuable material so carefully illustrated, diagramed and described that any individual seeking expert information on this subject could find an answer to any question that could be asked. It considers all subjects and phases conducive to good individual instruction, class, and school organization, and a tennis program for camps and tournaments. Each phase is treated scientifically, clearly and thoughtfully and is applicable to either small or large groups and to situations or problems arising in instruction. Step by step each chapter takes the reader through the various stages of progression beginning with the strokes:—Forehand, Backhand, Service, Lob, Volley, Chop, and Overhead Smash, illustrating the position of the racquet, the individual, and describing the movements and timing.

The last half of the book clearly defines tactics, [team, single, and doublel types of tournaments, eliminations, ladder, etc., con-concluding with camp program, tennis rules and etiquette, and an excellent bibliography.

Enlightening illustrations and diagrams amplify the description of each chapter.

The book contains a wealth of material and knowledge which is practical and adaptable to most problems and will contribute greatly in assisting instructors in organizing this activity as a major part of a physical education curriculum.

MAUDE SHARPE.

Digitized by <^.ooQle
235

The Modern Dance* by. John Martin; published by A. S. Barnes and Co., New York; clothbound, 5x7 1-2”; 123 pages; price, $1.50.

In its vitality, splendor, technique, and its achievement in elucidation, Mr. Martin has come upon the meanings of certain common principles underlying the many systems and. methods of modern dancing. He begins with the characteristics of the modern dance, and proceeds with a comparison of the modern versus the classic and romantic. After being hopelessly confused searching for a standard system, such as characterized the classic dance, one discovers that the modern dance is not a system. It is a point of view. This point of view has been developing through the years. It is by no means an isolated development. It has gone hand in hand with the development of points of view on other subjects.

The author follows this with a discussion of form and technique. When certain movements, which are the result of “feeling through” with sensitive body, have been arranged in rhythmic relation to each other, they produce form. Concerning technique, Mr. Martin explains that “the dance must take the raw materials of a body more or less like everybody else’s body, and transform it into an instrument capable of producing the medium in which he works, movement—but if he has no muscular control, no strength, no elasticity, no breath, he is~ absolutely helpless.”

The author concludes this inspirational book with a comparison of the dance with the other arts. He opens the eyes of even the thinking dance artists by reminding them that music was antedated by the dance, and that in the relationship to dancing as an art, music should always be secondary.

The author has succeeded in stripping the encumbracnes from the mind of the layman in regard to the new modern dances. This book is highly recommended to both teachers and students. It will be found invaluable in obtaining a clear understanding of the splendid new movement of the dance.

FRANCES SELLERS WILLIAMS

Dance As An Art-Form, Its History and Development,

by La Meri; published by A. S. Barnes and Co., New York; clothbound, 5x7 1-2”; 108 pages; price $1.50.

La Meri has her own unique way of telling the story of dancing in many countries. It is not often that a book primarily of text-book quality falls into the category of interesting and exciting reading. This new contribution may be classed as such. She begins her discussion with a chapter on the Defense of Dancing. In a clever manner she portrays the truth of dancing as an art; “for art is composed of three substances, Truth, Labor, and Humility—amd the greatest of these is Humility”. She continues with the subjects in the following order-: Brief History of the Occidental Art, the Ballet Dance, The Free Dance, The Ethonologic Dance, Eastern Dances, The Spanish Dance,

Digitized by v^.ooQle
236

European National Dances, and American Dances. Her credentials are unmistakable. On every page there are paragraphs that suggest a background of abundant information.

She does not ignore the romance that has stimulated the dance art in every nation. She has surrounded it with a warmth of feeling that is irresistible. It is the climate and the soil on which various peoples perform which produce their respective dance forms. She tells us that Ballet is for the Worker; “he who, unafraid of endless hours of physical labor, finds joy in the surmounting of nearly unconquerable muscular difficulties.” The Free dance is for the Thinker; “he who, with the courage and humility of clean intelligence, finds philosophy in the dark hours of early morning.” The Ethnologic dance is for the Student; “he who, tireless in research, knows that knowledge is its own most perfect reward.”

She concludes her stimulating contribution with a splendid and enlightening Glossary of terms and complete bibliography.

The book is rich in source naterial. Any teacher or student of the dance who is vitally interested in creative work will find this authoritative contribution of permanent value in conveying to his followers that ever desirable aim in our modem education, the worthy use of leisure.

FRANCES SELLERS WILLIAMS

Health Education Notes

Howard L. Conrad

Teaching Procedures in Health Education.—Most courses of study in health education have objectives that are excellent enough in the sense that these objectives are practical and attainable. Subject matter, to be sure, is still always in a state of flux; and this condition, it will be admitted, is as it should be. Educators still place the maintenance of health and physical fitness foremost in the general aims of education, although the place and importance attached to health is by no means commensurate with the amount of money usually allotted to it in these days of budget pruning. But the fact remains, and perhaps will always remain, that health practice lags behind health knowledge. The question inevitably arises: Is our health teaching too much a thing of mere knowledge unrelated to practices and attitudes?

Particularly in the secondary schools where health education is frequently specialized, do we find verbalism, factual emphasis, and an inflexible adherence to texts for experiences, rather than real life situations at hand. Dr. Bailey said, a few years ago, that “the greatest hindrance to the development of a high school health program is the inertia of the teaching body, due to the

Digitized by v^.ooQLe
237

fact that their interest and training are centered in the academic achievement of their pupils.”*

In spite of the criticism voiced that most teacher-training colleges and institutes are now over-loaded with methods courses, the suspicion arises that many of these courses are too general and lacking in direct application to specific subjects and situations apropos of health education, it seems as if general methods courses, valuable though they be, have failed in many cases to provide the specific teaching technique necessary for the successful handling of this subject. It is with this thought in mind that the following material is presented.

The question naturally arises: In what respects does instruction in health education differ from instruction in any other subject? The difference exists first in aim, and second in rating of accomplishment. The aim is to provide effective instruction in order that health habits are acquired and strengthened and that health interests are stimulated and made permanent. The teacher should place but secondary emphasis on memorization of facts, theories, rules, etc.

Health education, in contrast to many ‘academic’ subjects, should be rated insofar as the instruction has succeeded in bringing about an immediate and permanent healthful adjustment of the individual to his environment and to his community. Deferred and remote benefits should therefore be secondary to present and actual accomplishments. This is a big order; but it is health education, and not anatomy, physiology, and hygiene; subjects about which much is learned but little practiced.

To accomplish better results it is necessary to realize that guinea pigs, children, and adults learn by definite laws*. Methods of instruction in any subject cannot be divorced from the consideration of these laws. It is a well-known fact that many “lectures” in secondary schools ignore the application of these laws, and by contrast, many “teachers” build their techniques around them.

NOTE: How these Laws of Learning may be used in specific teaching techniques in health education will be the subject for further discussion in following issues.

*“A Program for High Schools” Edna W. Bailey, Ph. D. 23rd Annual Meeting of the Natl. Tuberculosis Association, 1927.

*.f. Thorndike, E. L. “Educational Psychology” Vol. II.

Sex Predominance in Diseases.—It has long been recognized that certain diseases such as hemophilia, hysteria, tuberculosis, chlorosis, and even syphilis have definite sex preferences. To this list may be added pernicious anemia and exophthalmic [toxic] goiter. According to the statistics of the Department of Public Health, Philadelphia, there were 44 deaths from pernicious anemia in that city during 1932. Eight of these were males and thirty-six were females. Significance is attached to the fact that

Digitized by Google
238

there were nearly five times as many deaths among females as males. No etiologic factors were cited. In the case of exop-thalmic goiter the ratio was 10 male deaths to 31 female deaths; again showing a distinct prevalence in females. Whether this glandular disturbance is in line with a general endocrine imbalance is not stated; but the fact remains that of these deaths, 19 occurred in the age range of 40 years to 54 years. Doubtless periodic medical examination and early diagnosis would do considerable in preventing or deferring deaths from these, as well as other diseases.

From a survey of hand-washing facilities in 145 schools in 15 States the Cleanliness Institute learned that 44 per cent furnished hot and cold water, 57 per cent furnished soap, and 70 per cent had some form of drying equipment, while only 31 per cent supplied all the above facilities for cleanliness. The surveyors were of the opinion that teacher interest in cleanliness of her pupils is so important that its absence makes effective hand washing improbable no matter how adequate the facilities. “On the other hand its presence frequently makes hand washing effective despite totally inadequate facilities.”—School Life.

On account of the tremendous progress of recent years in the prevention of disease and the care of the sick, many schools this year placed, special emphasis on “Thanks for Health” Day in connection with Thanksgiving exercises.

Syphilis.—The campaign against syphilis as a cause of blindness took more active form during the past few months in the passage of resolutions by six Sections of the American Medical Association. Following the passage of these resolutions, the American Social Hygiene Association and the National Society for the Prevention of Blindness adopted as part of their respective programs the promotion of care for expectant syphilitic mothers to conserve sight, and are working out a plan of action.

Lighting School Buildings.—The code of lighting school buildings was revised during 1933 under the sponsorship of the American Standards Association and presents the latest knowledge of proper lighting in schoolrooms, for the benefit of school superintendents and those delegated with the responsibility for constructing school buildings.

“Babies’ Sore Eyes” Legislation. After a bitter fight and defeat last year, Illinois has passed legislation requiring the use of a prophylactic in all newborn babies’ eyes; Washington, D. C., has under consideration a revision to its bill to render it more effective.

Digitized by Google
239

SUNSHINE AND CLOTHING.

In recent years much of the accepted efficacy of solar irradiation for the promotion of health has been attributed, as the result of careful scientific investigations, to the ultraviolet components of the sunlight. These rays, which represent only a small part of the energy involved, not only are singularly potent but also may be readily obliterated by various interposing mediums. They fail almost completely to penetrate ordinary window glass, through which ordinary light rays pass readily. Skyshine may contribute a considerable part of the desired effects of heliotherapy. This is demonstrably true with respect to antirachitic potency. It has become evident that in order to get maximal results from heliotherapy one must be assured that direct solar radiations, as well as those which are indirect or diffuse, are being received and that it is not necessary to discard all solarization because direct sunshine is not available. Leonard Hill has listed, as causes for variation in the amount of the ultraviolet component of sunlight, the source, whether skyshine or sunshine; the time of day; the time of year; the pollution of the air; the geographic location, and the altitude.

In view of this it has become imperative to secure dependable information about the actual conditions that exist in the different parts of the world and even in individual communities. Surveys as to the quantity and quality of sunlight freely available have already been reported from many regions. Some of them are reviewed in a recent contribution of Manville of the University of Oregon Medical School. They call attention again to the extent to which smoke pollution and fog may obstruct the ultraviolet rays. According to Manville, Portland, Ore., as a representative locality of the Northwest, has the lowest annual average of sunshine of all areas in the United States. Michigan, Maine, Vermont, New York and the Ohio Valley receive almost as low a percentage. After April, when one expects clearer sides, the amount of smoke in the air in some parts of the Northwest increases. Farmers, homesteaders and others select this time of the year, as well as the fall after the first rains, to bum their slashings. During the summer months the amount of smoke in the air steadily increases and is due for the most part to forest fires. Hence the pall of smoke hanging over the Northwest during the late spring, summer and early fall is considered more of a menace than a nuisance.

To meet these situations, various “substitutes" for sunshine —notably artificial irradiation and irradiated foods—have been proposed. Manville has reminded us, however, that modification of dress embodying the hygiene of clothing is worthy of consideration. He states that the relative mildness of the climate in the Northwest should permit of greater freedom in the style of dress. Man has not yet compensated for the deficiency of ultraviolet radiation in the temperate zone; in order to prevent undue losses of heat he has clothed himself in such a manner that a poor

Digitized by LjOOQle
240

condition is made worse. However much has been said against the modern styles in women’s dress, Manville believes it must be admitted that they allow much more exposure of the skin to the beneficial action of the sun and air than is permitted by the prevailing modes for men. It has been shown that certain fabrics possess the power of greater transmissibility to ultraviolet radiations than others. It would therefore seem that a more intelligent adjustment to styles and choice of fabrics would have considerable influence in alleviating the conditions of a. natural shortage of ultraviolet rays. The special needs of different localities, notably as they are affected by environmental temperature, call for discriminating recommendations. Dress reform may well proceed, in part at least, on the basis of the physiologic needs of those who wear the clothing.

News Notes and Comments

Union Of Federal Educational Agencies. ■ The union of two major Federal agencies concerned with the promotion of education in the United States under the Department of the Interior is announced by Harold L. Ickes, Secretary of the Interior. By official order the functions of the Federal Board for Vocational Education are transferred to the U. S. Office of Education in the Department of the Interior. Dr. George F. Zook, U. S. Commissioner of Education, will direct the activities of the enlarged Federal Office of Education.

The American Olympic and the A. A. U. have both passed resolutions asking President Roosevelt to divert a “generous” amount of public works funds to build athletic and recreational parks.

During the annual convention of the A. A. U. held in November, unanimous approval was given to the use of the meter as the unit of measurement in track and field championships. Miami, Fla., was awarded the 1934 convention.

Shortcomings In Physical Education. Despite the fact that health work and physical education are relatively new features in the program of secondary education, and therefore any criticism must take account of their novelty, nevertheless, Mr. Brammell, specialist in school administration, Federal Office of Education, calls attention to two shortcomings reported by workers in these fields. “One of these shortcomings,” Mr. Brammell states in final conclusion, “is the lack of effective programs of correction in physical education and of proper follow-up to facts brought to light through various tests and physical examinations.”

“The other shortcoming,” he explains, “is the failure to measure the effectiveness of the general programs in this field,

Digitized by UjOOQle
241

the methods of instruction, and the materials used." He points out, however, that this work although new “has made large gains, even while other more traditional subjects were losing in prominence.”

Several afterschool playgrounds are being conducted in Philadelphia elementary schools under the immediate direction of university students and local pupil leaders. Two years of experience with this plan has proven it to be very successful.

Research. “Bibliography of Research Studies in Education, 1931-32” prepared by the Office of Education, library division, ists 3,121 titles of masters’ and doctors’ theses reporting investigations in 24 different fields of education. The bibliography Price 20 cents] is published as Bulletin 1933 No. 6, available :rom the Superintendent of Documents, Washington, D. C. School health and physical education attracted the attention of research workers as never before, with 166 theses written in these fields during 1931-32.

Many of these studies are available through inter-library loan or for consultation at the Federal Office of Education library, which has 768 unpublished works on file.

Foods, Vitamins, and the Human Eye.—The l^st issue of the “Sight Saving Review”* contains among other things a very interesting and enlightening article by Dr. Walter F. King on ‘Diet and Eye Health’. A very condensed digest of some of his main points in this connection yields the following:

1. Poor quality proteins, i.e., those which are deficient in one or more of the four essential amino acids; will, along with Vitamin A deficiency, produce ‘dry-eye’ disease [xerophthalmia] quicker than if proteins of good quality are ingested.

2.	Cases of blepharitis, lid eczemas, and corneal trouble often respond well to a rigid curtailing of carbohydrates.**

3.	A certain type of conjunctivitis is usually the by-product of calcium deficiency in the blood.

4.	That, although Vitamin A deficiency is directly responsible for eye disease, deficiency in Vitamins B. C. D. and E may indirectly contribute to metabolic conditions which damage the function and structure of the eye.

The article contains an excellent description of the symptoms and development of xerophthalmia [not common in the United States] and a report concerning the use of Vitamin A—containing foods and ultra-violet light in the treatment of that disease.

• June 1933, Vol. Ill, No. 2.

** The average yearly per capita consumption of sugar is 100 pounds over and above the body requirements.

Digitized by v^ooQle
242

DIET AND GROWTH.*

With progress in the knowledge of nutrition, a number of investigations have demonstrated that, in certain species of animals at least, it is possible to augment the customary rate of growth through a judicious selection of food. There is, of course, abundant evidence available to indicate that heredity plays an important directive part both in the rate of gain and in the maximum size ordinarily attained by the individuals taking this consideration into account. Most students of animal growth also appreciate that inappropriate feeding may retard the customary increments in size, despite any inherent hereditary growth tendencies.[l] This is due to the fact that the organism cannot construct de novo a considerable number of the materials that are indispensable for body building; hence they must be supplied in adequate amounts and due proportions in the selected food intake.

With such limitations in mind as furnishing exceptions to the general experience, it has become customary to depend on certain types of statistical averages as indexes of the "normal” rates of growth. This is particularly true in reference to the growth of children. In view of the recent observations on dietary modes of accelerating the growth of some animals far beyond the rate that the reported "normal curves” or average observations have led one to expect, it has become pertinent to inquire whether the current "standards” for human growth represent anything approaching the best attainable. It is customary to assign variations from the "standard” to little understood idiosyncrasies, whereas the progress of science is directed to the explanation of deviations from the expected. Thus, allergic manifestations in man are no longer properly described as inexplicable idiosyncrasies. A duty therefore arises to discover, if possible, the antigenic or sensitizing substances in the environment or intake so that they can be either avoided or rejected.

Similarly has appeared the desirability of passing on the conventional standards of child welfare, notably those relating to the gains in size. One may well ask, furthermore, what the indexes shall be. Are body weight or body length to supply the criteria? Or are there perchance other physical measurements or chemical data that give a better insight ’into what is represented by growth and development? Enough statistics have already been gathered in recent years to indicate that some revision of the current assumptions is called for. The "overweight” that is being reported for many children in school presenting superior advantages probably represents an approach to the

'Editorial, Journal, Am. Medical Ass’n.

1.	Daniels, Amy L.; Hutton, Mary K.; Stearns, Genevieve, and Hejinian, Lucea M.; The Relation of Rate of Growth in Infants to Diet, Am. J. Dis. Child. 371 1177 [June] 1929.

Digitized by i^ooQLe
243

optimal size for age rather than any disproportionate and therefore undesirable physique. It has been observed!!] that the physical measurements of the group of intellectually gifted children in California, reported by Baldwin, [2] are in all probability nr ore nearly the standard that should be attained by all children.

The effect of diet, apart from environmental factors, on the gains of infants has recently been indicated by the experiments of Daniels and her co-workers[l] at the Child Welfare Research Station of the State University of Iowa. Two groups of babies receiving feedings of modified cow’s milk, one with cod liver oil and another without it, have been examined from the standpoint of growth as exemplified in gains of weight and also in the amounts of nitrogen, calcium and phosphorus retained. Thus the claim of mere gains or losses of water could be checked. The infants receiving the cod liver oil as a supplement not only weighed more at the same age than those who were not so supplied but were considerably heavier than the accepted standards for infants of their respective ages and birth weights. There was also a parallelism in the better growing babies between the amounts of the important tissue building elements—nitrogen, calcium and phosphorus—retained, thereby indicating an appropriate incorporation of these construction materials into the structure of the organism. The unique components of the cod liver oil are, of course, the fat-soluble vitamins A and D. Hence the Iowa investigators venture the conclusion that conditions which make for better utilization of calcium and phosphorus will result in larger and physically better developed children.

The Iowa report accordingly insists that the accepted standards of growth for infants are too low. Realizing that weight measurements may have serious limitations or even be sources of error for establishing and evaluating physical development. Daniels and Hejinian[3] have sought other criteria and believe that they have found one standard in the output of creatinine. The latter can be accurately measured in the day’s urine with the ordinary facilities of the clinical laboratory. The output of creatinine is regarded by many as a measure of the active protoplasmic tissue; and there seems to be a direct relationship between the output of creatinine and the body weight, expressed by the so-called creatinine coefficient. Daniels and Hejinian found, as was to be expected, that the output of creatinine increases as infants grow older. Among the Iowa children whom they examined, the increase was gradual in some cases; in others there was a sudden increase between the third and the sixth month of age. This appeared to be coexistent with the greater

2.	Baldwin, B. T.: Anthropometric Measurements of a Group of Gifted Children: Genetic Strides of Genius, Palo Alto, Calif., Stanford University Press 1, 1925.

3.	Daniels, Amy L., and Hejinian, Lucea M.: Growth in Infants from the Standpoint of Physical Measurements and Nitrogen Metabolism, Am. J. Dis. Child. 37: 1128 [June] 1929.

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
244

muscular activity of the infant. After comparing the various available relationships, it is suggested by Daniels and Hejinian that the relation of creatinine output to body length may give a more nearly accurate measure of a child’s physical development than is shown by his creatinine-weight coefficient or his height-weight relationship. If such conclusions can be established, they may lead to a more rational method of evaluating and treating the so-called undernourished child.

MUSSOLINI AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION OF YOUTH.

Translated by Leopold F. Zwarg.

Prefascistic education of youth in Italy, as in other countries, was in the past essentially a mere dispensing of knowledge. The body or physique was totally neglected. Thanks to racial health, energy, and favorable climate, the consequences were not as hard as in certain Nordic countries where similar methods prevailed. Fascism, from the beginning, dedicated itself to a government, even revolution, of youth.

The “Opera Nazionale Balilla”, planned under direct command of the Fascist Party, has become the center of the new physical education. Its aim is physical efficiency rather than record breaking achievement. Under central supervision a rigid discipline of body and mind has been accomplished. But the discipline is Romanic, leaving each individual full personal liberty. The enrolled youth are under its control for half their school life.

As this new movement in physical education invaded the schools, the daily period of physical education was taken away from the regular teachers ana placed in the hands of leaders of the Balilla and officers of the militia. These men have the same right as other members of the faculty, but they are responsible only to the militia.

The new impetus given to physical education naturally created a need for a great number of teachers. There had been teachers of sport for years before the advent of Fascism,—teachers trained in private and municipal institutes. They were subordinated as ‘also’ or assistant teachers, and their training varied with the quality of the respective institutes. Fascism quickly created a central college of physical education. It was affiliated with the R. Accademica di educazione fisica militare, the Famesina in Rome. The new institution became so important that it was able, after only four years of existence, to change the entire collegiate program to rank itself as a university.

The institution, called Famesina for short, possesses gigantic buildings, an enormous stadium, and large dormitories.

The courses last two and four years. The two year course ends with an examination and entitles the student to a diploma as teacher of physical education. Soon the four year course is to end with the doctorate of the sciences of physical education.

Digitized by LjOOQle
245

Admittance to the R. Academia di educazione fisica is open only to those with a college degree. The new teachers are to have a good general education and are to act also as leaders in the “Opera Nazionale Balilla”. In the two year course, all forms of gymnastics, track and field sports, games, and therapeutic gymnastics are taught. Academic training is emphasized, especially in the fields in which the youth is to be moulded, namely politics, fascistic revolution, and law. French and English are the languages taught. Further subjects required are anatomy, morphology, and physiology, with emphasis upon personal, school, and community hygiene; first aid; sport, pathology; and therapeutics. The students are subject to exact examination of their organic functions during physical exercises. In the second, more intensive course, the various auxiliary scientific subjects of physical education are stressed. There are parallel courses for sport physicians.

So far, the “Opera Nazionale Balilla” has lacked persons so trained. A certain hasty preparation was necessary. The University is only now ready to operate fully. The first 400 students are serving, but the O.N.B. needs thousands. Speeded up courses are still given. Only in the future will the scheme, planned on such a large scale, have its full effect.—Leibesuebungen und Koerperliche Erziehung.

Study of Biochemistry—Biochemistry is the study of the composition of living matter. It is not a new branch of chemistry; it is just as old as chemistry itself. The field of biochemistry, however, is ever widening. It is involved in botany, zoo-logy, physiology [with the growing interest in vitamins, hormones and nerve impulse], bacteriology, agriculture and industry. In the July issue of Hygeia, F. C. Koch explains in addition the composition of living matter a.;d the part each substance plays in the scheme of living things.

Three Types of Worms May Infest the Intestines—Dr.

P. M. Ashbum relates in part V of his series, “Progress in Preventive Medicine,” how certain parasites or worms infest the intestinal tract and may at times cause serious symptoms or death. These are of three distinct groups: the roundworms, or Nematodes; the tapeworms, or Cestodes, and the flukes, or Trematodes. Chief of these are the roundworms, consisting of the lumbricoids, the hookworms, the seatworms and the whop-worms. Trichinosis is caused by a Nematode. This disease can be avoided by the simple procedure of cooking pork until it is thoroughly done.

Another Step Forward. The South Carolina High School Athletic League has recommended the abolishment of all state contests and the development of extensive intramural programs.

Digitized by VjOOQle
246

Vital Statistics.—The death rates for 1932 in New York and Illinois are the lowest ever recorded for those states.

The number of accidents to children on Philadelphia streets was reduced owing largely, it is believed, to the safety patrols in the schools.. In the year 1931 ninety-three Philadelphia children were killed in street accidents; in 1932 the number was sixty-six.

Popular Vote.—By popular vote, the people of Parkersburg, West Virginia, voted to continue the Public Recreation program 4 to 1. This was public approval of good work done. Three other cities, in spite of the depression, also voted in favor of continuing the, municipal recreation system.

New Jersey has 800 physical educators and 600 nurses in its schools.

The University of California has just completed one of the largest and finest and most complete gymnasiums in the country at a cost close to $2,000,000.

Mary Wigman Breaks Arm. As a result of a fall on a dimly lighted staircase as she was leaving a stage, Mary Wigman, internationally known dancer, broke her arm.

TO OUR SUBSCRIBERS

Owing to the serious illness of our business manager it was impossible during the month of December to get out an issue of Mind and Body. Impossible for two reasons. First, unless bills are sent out constantly, subscriptions come in so slowly that there was insufficient money on hand to take care "of December expenses. In the second place, there was no one'to take charge of the actual work of getting the December number printed and mailed. It therefore became necessary to combine December and January numbers and this has been done. Also to make up the loss of the December number to our subscribers we are adding one-third more pages to each of the first three issues of 1934 and you will note that this January number contains 64 pages in place of the usual 48. February and March numbers will likewise have 64 pages each and this will complete a years' volume of the regular size.

We are still much handicapped by our manager’s illness and we ask that you consider this in dealing with Mind and Body. If your subscription is due, send your remittance without waiting for a bill. The item of postage alone on a year’s subscription bills is. so large that it is difficult to spare the amount from our running expenses. Save us the trouble and expense of billing you by paying without notice.

Digitized by °Qle
>-	247

dance-like; LEAPS [OR DANCE LEAPS]*

[Leaping Movements as Dance Forms]

Heinrich A. Schlueter, Hamburg

Translation by William A. Nicolai, Philadelphia Central High

School

The clearly visible changes in bodily education during the past decade nave in no way come to an end. Scarcely had we believed, in the light of our physiological knowledge, to have discovered the most important guides, then some teachers and physicians would proclaim some new gymnastic demands.

In our modern conception of the “education of the child as a whole” our one-sided “health-aim” of gymnastics is out of place. To the little child such a narrowly constituted gymnastic program is foreign and tiresome. Today we regard the child as an entity. This demands in like proportion, besides the physiological, also a psychological foundation in gymnastic procedure.

Experience itself in gymnastic instruction has taught that a carefully selected, real animating body curriculum, can be built up when we understand how to stimulate and interest the mind and spirit of youth. A smooth moving, merry and hearty method of procedure offers children great pleasure. Still it is not unjust to point out that mueh in even our newer forms of physical education remains too formal and contrary to child nature. We demand more of the child's understanding than the stage of mental development can comprehend and thereby promote a tendency to superficiality. Therefore, we must look around for exercises which certainly fulfill the instructor’s physiological exercise aims, but which also, without forcing the child, have the proper mental content appeal.

Favorable reference is often made to imitation of the various life activities. Yet on this point I have my doubts. I do not believe that imitative activities, such as chopping wood, contribute more to a child’s needs than the purely gymnastic movements such as swinging, climbing, leaping, etc. For a time imitative activities will arouse the interest of a child, but soon their stimulative effect is exhausted. The youngsters soon tire of being compelled to adhere to definite form, while to adults imitative movements appear ridiculous. Nor does the school awaken the love for physical exercise by such movements. The kindling of a stimulus must lie in the movements themselves. These must be so arranged that in their very execution alone—not only the body but the entire individual is involved.
248

Let ns observe what the uninfluenced life-motions of children really are! What movements lead to a condition of mental excitation or to mental tension? What is the child’s behavior reaction in school when announcement is made that an outdoor picnic is scheduled; in the act of picking flowers in the field; the act of gathering clams along the sandy strand? While absorbed in such activities we become aware that the child unconsciously spreads its fingers, moves the legs, often rises to toe stands and makes leaping motions. They all arise spontaneously from inner motivation. During such free play moments I did occasionally ask a child: “You were just now jumping around so gaily; that was a neat exercise. Do it again!’’ Then the child would answer: “I do not remember what I did”, or: “I do not know that I jumped,” These movements deal, as a matter of fact, with the physical expression of the mental or spiritual disposition, the acts being formed outside the realm of consciousness and their successful completion contributing a pleasurable experience. Less often did I observe the bigger children performing such unhampered movements.

If, from such movements by a child, there should emanate pleasant excitation, conversely an exercise copied from the spontaneous life movements of a child also tends to awaken happy feelings. The latter I consider an important part of the lesson plan in the exercise hour. To those exercises, which always engender ioy, belong the leaping movements. No physical exercise period should pass that does not offer youngsters some opportunities for jumping and leaping.

Jumping or leaping is not strange to a child; it is to him an evident, ever recurring, useful life necessity. Even the small child jumps more than it walks. Should he spy two lines, separated by a negotiable distance, he prefers to leap over the intervening space. If he encounters a stone pile, ne will ascend it merely for the purpose of being able to jump from it. Jumping is a field of activity in which every healthy child finds itself at home.

School gymnastic instruction considers three types of leap-ings: light athletic measurable jumps [competitive high and broad], the gymnastic jumps for dexterity, and the dance leap-ings. Only a superficial consideration would regard the content of these forms as homogeneous. The nomenclature of the light athletic jumps and that of the dance leapings nust be clearly differentiated.

According to F. A. Schmidt, the light athletic jump involves a change of body position. This pump aims for the mastery of a goal outside of the body. Since it strives for a measurable performance it is related to the running and throwing events [track and field competition]. Height and distance are its measuring rods. The execution of this jump rests upon the principle of appropriateness.

Digitized by v^,ooQLe
249

Also the dance leapings mostly involve a change of body position. But for its identification this is only a secondary consideration, in so far as no space limitations exist for performance of the movements. The take-off and the landing may in fact occur on the same spot. The purpose of dance leapings are joyful movement sensations.

Between the two above forms is placed the gymnastic jump fo,> dexterity. As long as pure joy is neasurably experienced in the performance of a skillful movement, the leap roust be classed as a dance form. As soon as a performance and its increase becomes measurable it approaches the light athletic classification.

All three forms of leapings can be prepared for thru practice jumping exercises in the class lesson. They especially serve to restore a fluent habit of movement. Yes, the same jump exercise may be used in preparation for any of the leaping types, the aim of which determines with which type it shall be classified. Picture to yourself a running leap [bounding extended stride during running] with the lower leg well extended forward. This would be helpful in executing a dance leap as well as providing the athlete with a good preparatory exercise for the broad jump. If we leap into a circle described on the floor we complete a gymnastic performance requirement. To this we can add a resilient landing, and could also combine it with turns of the body. All these simple jumping exercises have, first of all, a schooling effect, serving to produce in the individual a gradual development of general bodily agility, which can be further developed in the objective direction of a finished performance.

Of course the dance leap is also an objective performance, but in a different sense than the broad jump. Both demand the necessity of the greatest expenditure of strength. It is a pleasure to the athlete to be permitted to apply his full strength at times, in order to become conscious of the invaluable wealth of his healthy life-strength. How one enjoys that sense of strength when it is realized that its expenditure in no respect is injurious. If the aim [of dance leap] is conceived of in this manner then the need for measuring the performance never even arises.

The dance leaps are differentiated according to their life-impulse content. After learning the leaping art and the step sequence, the rhythm used may be either measured and restful, or rapid and lively. It may, by various tempo shadings, rise to a self-expression of wild and furious abandon. The expression of the leap can both depict a picture of light, swinging, retarded contacts, like an uncontrollable bubbling of subdued strength, or discharge into a more grotesque vigorous form.

The dance motif selected tends to direct the method of teaching the leapings. The mood of the hour determines the endeavors of the dancer’s experiences. It does not satisfy modem intuitions, when in the methodical handling of a certain leap, every thinkable, often unorganized step-combination is used,

Digitized by L,ooQle
250

and indiscriminate use of rhythms is made to effect complete mechanical mastery of the leap. Thru such procedure emphasis is directed away from the inner motif to the external aspects. As a foundation one should use a tempo which rhythmically fits each leap. That in itself greatly decreases the number of possible step combinations. But within these limits the leaps themselves should be altered by adding similar leap in sequence. And in building up the sequences many alternations should be added. Important at the same time is the use of proper rhythmic forms in the teaching procedure, such as, rising and lowering cadences in a musical sense.

Admittedly an objection may be raised that such a procedure would lead to a superficial performance, that the real knowledge, the neat execution of the leap, is not sufficiently considered. For that reason, the essentials and finer technique of the leap movements must be emphasized and take precedence in the gymnastic lesson. Everything which contributes to the scope of movement, to the loosening of trunk, arms and legs, especially the acquisition of skill, must be offered in gymnastic preparation.

The teacher, who fashions the instruction period according to his own judgment, must, before all, understand the various leap forms with all the step combinations and rhythms. The exercise combinations offered to him at the start must not force him into a path of limited text content. Moreover he must have the ability to select from the large number of combination possibilities those which in every instance are both appropriate and consistent. Therefore, we give in the following those exercises that are not arranged according to tempo and steps. Beginning with the external form of a fundamental leap we will show the various

essibilities of application. The proposals are not altegother to regarded as a complete lesson plan but as an exercise development calling for a liberal interpretation. It is understood that in no way can the series of exercises in this form claim a degree of completeness.

The simplest leap is the running leap or step-leap. It is merely an elongated step during running, increasing either the distance or the height. The take-off ana landing are not from the same foot. As to the position of the trunk, two views oppose each other. The old ballet demanded a rigid carriage of the spinal column. This position cannot be reconciled with the modem gymnastic conception. No athletic leap is executed with a proscribed position of the spinal column. The dance leap today demands a more wave-like motion of the spine. To develop suppleness of the spinal column the following jumping exercises are helpful:

1.	In forward stride position—jumping in place, first on the forward foot and then on the rear foot.

2.	Exercise 1 in 3-4 tempo, left and right in alternation, and then left forward, backward, forward; same right.

3.	Exercise 1, but with a long leap forward and a short leap backward.
251

A screw-like motion of the trunk is noticed during the leap accompanied by turning of the pelvic girdle. When taking off from one foot the other leg circles so far inward as to produce an eighth turn of the body along the length axis. This picture of screw motion arises from the fluent turns, which, beginning in the pelvic girdle, are flowingly transmitted to the upper body. A series of appropriate step combinations with the running leap are added to improve execution. *

After mastery of the leap forms have been accomplished, the attempt is now made, by the use of selected combinations, to fix the sense of motion.

The easiest execution of the running leaps is that in combination with short running steps, for example; two running steps and the leap on the third step; repeating this continuously in a measure of time which offers two eighth notes for the steps and one quarter ndte for the leap. For this combination various play forms exist. One form seeks to attain greater height in the leaps; another, greater distance. In the former the preceding running steps are short, the knees being raised somewhat during the leap, toes pointing downward. In the latter, the leap strives for distance.

To add a rich variation to the figures in the leaper’s experience, the duration of each musical note is changed. A joyous temperament tends to increase the speed and stimulates the pupils.

Increased acceleration demands this step-series: three eighth notes, a quarter note and another eighth note. The leap occurs on the quarter note and the landing on the last eighth note. This also enables alternation of the leaping legs. This may appear important to the physiologically inclined observer on the grounds of offering an all around exercise. It is equally important to consider its value in every sport activity. The results in jumping and throwing are usually one-sided in that the jumping leg or the throwing arm are seldom changed. For those, who in sport performances look for all around agility, this physiological element is not sought.

By raising the step series to five counts it is realized that the number of steps which may be used are endless. But who will question the pupil whether he is subconsciously counting the steps, or, if he finds the rhythm suitable for the steps? One must guard against constructing long step-sepuences. Such become mere mental tricks rather than physical skills.

The imagination is impressed by the following step sequence: four eighth notes and two quarter notes, in which four running steps and two leaps are alternated. What an entirely different power lies in the sequence of two eighth notes and a quarter note. Here a lively tension is engendered, every step leading to a leap.

A different form of the four eighth, and two quarter notes sequence is effected when each of the two leaps adds knee raising
252

and a half turn of the body on its length axis. In this case the following two steps are faced by the problem of checking the body momentum after the turns and then preparing for the next leaps forward. Great alertness is demanded in executing the following rhythms: two eights—two quarters; or, three eiglths— two quarters. These may also be executed with or without turns.

If we use the even tempo of four quarter notes—four leaps in succession, not to mention added turns, much greater expenditure of strength is demanded. Such a rhythmical acceleration taxes the mind too strongly and tires the body too rapidly. It would be better to arrange this sequence so that acceleration would alternate with attenuation.

Let us turn again to the lively rhythm of the running leaps. For particular leap forms six-eight tempo with alternating quarter and eighth notes is stimulating. During the first half of the measure two long or short running steps are executed, and during the second half the leap. The ordinary running leap does not fit well with this combination since it requires even length running steps. The step during the first quarter note must be somewhat checked so that the leap does not attain its usual distance. There arises a tendency to lapse into a dance-like movement. One is tempted to add a hop with leg raising forward, sideward or backward with knees bent or straight. If we choose the following enchainment: “Step left, step right and leap landing on the right after the accented beat”, the free leg, at the take-off, tends to swing upward to be followed by the other leg, either with bent or straight knees. To regain the body balance the upper leg, must be brought down. This bounding leap with knee raising alternation might be called the “change” or “alternation” leap. The legs may be kept straight or bent in this leap, and also may be raised backward. Both forward and backward movements prove stimulating to the pupils. Like the simple running leap, the “change” leap may also be practiced by omitting the preliminary running steps. A pretty sequence occurs if during the first half of the measure the “change” leap is done with raising bent legs forward and during the second half the “change” leap with lower legs raised backward, and thus alternating the two forms continuously. It is important that the up and down shifting of the body weight is properly interposed between the two steps, so that the one step elevates the body on every quarter note and the other step on every eighth note serves to catch and balance the body weight.

Thru continuous forward swinging of the straight legs during the running we lead into the “stride” leap. This again permits alternation with the backward leg raising form. In practice, alternate two forward with two backward leg raisings. This leap-like running [“stride” leap] is somewhat strenuous. The steps, not too rapid, follow even-measured eighth notes [four-eighth tempo]. During this exercise it is important that

Digitized by L^ooQle
253

the body attain a proper posture. As the position of the head during the forward “stride” leap tends to double up the body, the backward raisings serve to stretch the body.

By combining the “change” leap with a whole turn around the length axis, we obtain the “turn” leap. Upon the possibilities of combinations with running and gallop hops we need not enlarge. Briefly, attention is directed to the body posture, which changes with the different leg positions. During the leaps with bent knees an erect trunk prevails whereas with straight legs the trunk assumes an oblique position. Almost a horizontal layout of the body obtains when two pupils perform the exercise together. In this case both are opposite to each other with arms crossed and hands clasped. Each leaps alternately. While the one performer leaps, the other stands firm dhd supports the flight thru the air.

A new leap form results when leaps occur twice from the same leg. To this the term “hop” may be applied. This is the leap form that joyous children instinctively select. Hopping offers possibilities of manifold movements of the raised leg such as: knee raisings, supple swings and straddlings in all directions and with simultaneous turns of the body along the length axis. For exercise combinations the following may be mentioned: hop left, hop right with various activities of the raised leg, then combinations with running steps, with change steps, in pairs, in threes, with turns, change of direction, etc.

A very popular field is offered by the “touch” leaps. They betray a spirit of haughtiness and in content are similar to the happy handclapping of children. These “touch” leaps are dance forms which may be associated partly with running leaps and partly with hopping. They consist of one leg striking the other leg during the leap, whether the legs are raised forward, obliquely, backward, or sideward. Should the legs be kept straight, then the legs strike each other thruout their length. If the knees are bent, then the soles of the feet only touch. Much preferred are a mixture of the two. In the bent knee leaps the soles strike the upper thigh. Combining these leaps with various steps opens a stimulating field of dance activities.

A new exercise series in the sphere of dance movement skills comes to a close with those leaps in which the take-off is from both feet. These leaps have mostly a very powerful, almost unfeeling expression. They adapt themselves especially for grotesque manifestations, but presuppose a greater dexterity than actually witnessed.

Individual leap-forms of this type include: the squat-leap [knees and hips bent]; straddle-squat-leap [as squat-leap wtih knees apart]; straddle-leap [straight legs extended sideward]; stride-leap [straight-legs extended forward and backward]; leap with raising the lower legs backward; leap with bending the body backward and straddling the straight legs; leap with raising the straight, closed or open legs forward, etc. For these leap types the simplest combinations are with running steps. Also here the

Digitized by UjOOQle
254

leaps may be used in rapid series of a tempo of two eighth and one quarter notes. In those leaps in which both legs perform simultaneous movements like in the squat-leap, straddle-leap, in which the landing is on both feet, it is easier to use a tempo of four eighth notes and two quarter notes; or, two eighth and two quarter notes.

Also continuous leaps are possible, especially in the continued sideward direction; but these stunts demand great dexterity and are exceedingly strenuous.—F Die 1 eibemebungen.

MODEL FREE-EXERCISES FOR MEN AND WOMEN,

St. Louis Tumverein at Buffalo Tumfest.

Introduction 16 counts. On 15-16 Stride 1. forw., raise arms obi. foreupw. [starting position].

GROUP I.

Exercise 1.

Turn trunk 1., swing arms foredownw. and obi. sideupw.. 1

Return ................................................ 2

Repeat all............................................. 3-4

Dip knees and trunk forw., swing arms foredownw. and

backw..........................................:... 5

Straighten knees and trunk, swing arms obi. foreupw.... 6

Repeat count 5......................................... 7

Straighten knees and trunk and change foot positions with a

jump on 8 ......................................... 8

Repeat all r..........................................   9-16

Repeat all 1. and r., but on last count jump to position with

arms upw. grasp hands,	thumbs to the front..........17-32

Exercise 2.

Swing [fling] arms backw............................... 1

Repeat 3 times ......................................... 2-4

Release hands, swing arms foredownw. and sidew., palms

upw................................................ 5

Circle both arms forw.................................. 6

Repeat count 6......................................... 7

Move arms upw.......................................... 8

Repeat all 3 times, but without grasp of hands, finish with

arms upw............................................ 9-32

Exercise 3.

Jump to sidestridestand, dip trunk forw. with swinging arms

sidedownw., hanging loosely, back well rounded up . 1

Straighten trunk, arms sidew., head well back and dip . 2

Repeat count 1......................................... 3

Repeat count 2......................................... 4

Repeat count 1 and	2 .................................. 5- 7

Raise trunk and arms sideupw........................... 8

Repeat all 3 times, but on last time jump to position, arms

upw................................................. 9-32

Digitized by CjOOQle
255

Exercise 4.

Lay-out L, sidew. h, hand on hip, r. arm upw., dip trunk 1.,

sidew. twice.......................................... 1-	2

Straighten r. knee and 1. arm upw.......................... 3

Bend 1. knee, D.A.C. r. bend trunk r.......................4

Dip trunk r. sidew. twice ...'............................. 5-	6

Straighten 1. knee and trunk, circle 1. arm inw. to upw.... 7

Close L. to r.............................................. 8

Repeat r., 1., r., on last repeat count 7, 3-4 armcircle r. inw.

sidew. Close r. to 1. on 8 ........................... 9-32

GROUP II.

Exercise 1.

Introduction 16 counts. On 15-16 face 1. and stride 1. sidew. [starting position].

Bend trunk forw., raise arms backw. so palms toward front.. 1- 2 Straighten trunk [horizontal position] move arms sidew. and

upw................................................... 3- 4

Raise trunk [vertical position]..	...................... 5- 6

Turn trunk 1. lower arms sidew., palms upw., look at 1.

hand ................................................. 7- 8

Repeat all, turn	trunk r.................................... 9-16

Repeat all 1. and r.........................................17-32

Exercise 2.

Bend turned trunk 1. sidew. [front], 1. hand touch floor, look

at r. hand ........................................... 1- 4

Turn trunk forw., lower r. arm............................. 5- 8

Turn trunk 1. raise 1. arm sidew., look at 1. hand, r. hand

touch floor ........................................... 9-12

As 5-8......................................................13-16

Repeat all..................................................17-32

Exercise 3.

Bend r. knee well, turn trunk 1. with turning on 1. heel, raise arms upw. head between arms, 1. knee straight, trunk is

bent forw., arms run parallel with 1. knee ........... 1- 4

Change knee bending, raise trunk, the trunk is over well

bent knee............................................. 5 -6

Straighten 1. knee, turn trunk to front, arms upw.......... 7-	8

Repeat all from this position to other side................. 9-16

Repeat all..................................................17-32

Exercise 4.

Lower arms forw............................................ 1-	2

Turn trunk 1., bend 1. arm to strike for shoulder ......... 3-	4

Turn trunk forw. straighten 1. arm forw.................... 5-	6

Raise arms upw............................................. 7-	8

Repeat r., 1., r. but finish with jumping with 1-4 turn r.

facing front, arms upw.—7, lower arms foredownw.—8.... 9-32

GROUP III.

Exercise 1.

Bend knees [closed] hands on floor beside legs ........  1

Straighten legs forw. to seat, arms upw................. 2

Digitized by
256

Dip trunk forw. twice, hands touching toes ................ 3- 4

Straighten trunk, draw up knees toward chest, move arms

sidew. palms upw., swing [fling] arms backw. 4 times .... 5- 8 Straighten knees forw. dip trunk forw. 4 times with arms as

in 3-4................................................. 9-12

Draw up legs to a tailor seat, hands on floor .............13-14

Jump to position...........................................15-16

Repeat all and finish as 5-8—on 12-16......................17-32

Exercise 2.

Grasp knees from inside with reverse grip [soles together]

fling knees sidew. at same time dip trunk forw......... 1

Repeat 3 times ............................................ 2-	4

Straighten knees forw. and arms upw........................ 5-	6

Lower trunk backw.......................................... 7-	8

Repeat all 3 times from lying position ....................9-32

Exercise 3.

From lying position.

Raise trunk, straddle legs, turn trunk 1. and bend forw., lower arms sidew., r. hand outisde of 1. heel, 1. arm well back 1

Straighten trunk and turn trunk to front, arms sidew.... 2

Repeat count 1 to r.......................................3

Repeat count 2........................................... 4

Repeat count 1-4 ....................................... 5- 8

With support of hands on floor, close legs and raise to kneeling support with well bent back [knees closed, straight

arms somewhat back .................................. 9-10

Straighten trunk ........................................11

Bend trunk ..............................................12

Straighten legs forw. to sitting position, arms upw......13-14

Lower trunk backw....................................... 15-16

Repeat all r., but finish with straightening trunk and fling

arms upw. 3 times on 13-15, hands on floor—16 .......17-32

Exercise 4.

From kneeling position.

Straighten 1. knee backw. [arched back] ................. 1

Bend 1. knee against chest [strong bending of trunk]..... 2

Repeat count 1..........................................  3

Lower 1. knee............................................ 4

Repeat 1-4 r............................................ 5-	8

Straighten legs backw. and straddle to support lying frontways ............................................... 9

Turn trunk 1., 1. arm sidew..............................10

Return to support lying ................................ 11

Turn trunk r., r. arm sidew..............................12

Return to support lying .................................13

Bend arms ...............................................14

Straighten arms..........................................15

Jump to kneeling position”:..............................16

Repeat all, but start r. and finish jump to squat stand .14

Straighten knees, arms upw...............................15

Lower arms foredownw.....................................16

Digitized by t^ooQle