MIND AND BODY

Tol- 12.	MAY,	1915.	Mo	939

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:

WILLIAM E. DAY, Physical Education Director, Public Schools, Salt Lake City, Utah.

EMIL RATH. Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil , Pa All Business letters and payments to the Freidenker Publishing Co., Room 40, Hathaway Bldg., Milwaukee. Entered at ihe Milwaukee Post Office as Second Class Matter.

NOTES AND COMMENTS

TEMPLE UNIVERSITY NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, PHILADELPHIA, PA.

The Normal Physical Education students have been working steadily during March.

Our swimming course began March 16 and everyone is very much interested and progressing rapidly. A swimming meet is planned for some time during the latter part of April. '

The call for baseball candidates was responded to by about 30 men, and prospects for a good team are very bright.

Track and field work has begun in earnest and regular out-door work will probably begin in a few days; while the number of candidates is not large, the enthusiasm is, nevertheless, great. The Penn Relays are to be held on April 24th and 25th, in which Temple will be represented.

Beginning with the second week in April, we will have regular tennis practice on the splendid courts in Fairmount Park.

In the Pennsylvania Girls’ Fencing Championships, held in the Temple gymnasium in March, our girls were again very successful, winning second and third places.

Robert J. Schenkel, Recorder.

NEWARK NOTES.

The following promotions and transfers in the Physical Education Department of the Newark Public Schools are announced:

1. Joseph D’Angola was promoted from assistant at the Bar-

Digitized by kjOOQle
— 618 —

ringer High school to the office of the Director of Physical Training, as Athletic Director of the Newark public schools.

2.	Lewis H. Field was advanced from Director of Physical Training at Hawthorne Avenue school to Assistant Director at the Barringer High school.

3.	Mr. Robert L. Criswell was appointed temporarily as Director of Physical Training at the Hawthorne Avenue school.

4.	The resignation of Miss Gertrude F. Breunig was received, to take effect March 1st. Miss Breunig gives up her work as a teacher of physical education to become the bride of Mr. Lester A. Palmer, one of the assistant supervisors of physical education in the Newark schools.

5.	Miss Lilian Robertson was appointed temporarily to take the place vacated by Miss Gertrude Breunig at the Barringer high school.

6.	Mr. August R. Goeltz has been appointed physical director of the Lafayette Street school.

The examination for physical directors to be held in June will make it possible to appoint three new men to fill positions in the new gymnasiums which will be ready in September.

Ernest H. Seibert.

NORMAL SCHOOL OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION, LA CROSSE, WIS.

A fitting climax to the basket ball season was the winning of the championship from the team representing the Milwaukee Normal school. The game was very fast and closed with the La Crosse team proving its superiority over its opponents.

With the closing of the basket ball season, baseball and track occupy the interest of the student body. The material is at hand for excellent track and base ball teams. A tournament in inter-class base ball league has been formed and also track work has been begun for the inter-class track meet, May 14, also for the big Normal Conference Track Meet at Whitewater, May 29.

The Physical Education Club has had some very interesting meetings at which debates were held; papers were presented on topics in connection with this line of work. The club is planning outdoor work for this spring in the form of trips and hikes to neighboring towns.

The last number on the lecture course proved to be the most interesting and the most appreciated of all. This was the lecture by the Honorable Victor Murdock, former Kansas congressman. An event, which holds the interest of the entire school and townspeople as well, is the engagement of the Minneapolis Symphony Or-

Digitized by L.ooQle
— 619

chestra on April 17. Along with this rare musical treat is a rendition of the Messiah, to be given by the school chorus of two hundred picked voices accompanied by soloists of national prominence.

Marcus G. Byers, Reporter

STATE NORMAL SCHOOL, MINOT, N. DAKOTA.

The winter term which has just closed was a most successful one in many ways. The enrollment in both Normal and Model departments reached its highest point—over 200 in the former and 170 in the latter.

That the department of physical education has been very active is shown by the many athletic events held, in addition to the regular class work. Although the boys’ basket ball teams were organized late they had a very successful season from the viewpoints of both sportsmanship and finance.

The girls, also, came in for their share of basket ball, there being 13 teams competing in intra-class games and six in the interclass games. The class instructions and intra-class games developed many skillful players; the result, being that the inter-class games were closely contested. The Sophomore class, which finally carried off the honors, was presented with a handsome pennant.

The basket ball tournament for the northwestern district of the high school league was held under the auspices of the Normal school and proved to be one of the best in the history of the league. Eight teams took part in the contests. The Normal school buildings afforded excellent facilities for the needs of the tournament. The gymnasium, with its splendid court, large seating capacity, adequate dressing rooms and fine ventilation was well suited to the occasion. About thirty of the out-of-town visitors were also supplied with boarding and sleeping accommodations.

Over 1000 people witnessed the contests and enjoyed the closely contested games, which were marked with good sportsmanship from start to finish. The final game was won by the Minot team, which was presented with the championship banner.

The pleasant spring weather which Minot has been enjoying for the past month has awakened much interest in out-door sports. The Normal students and Model school students are now devoting considerable time to out-door sports chiefly playground ball and track and field athletics. The efficiency athletic contests which are to be held in a few weeks for both boys and girls have aroused much enthusiasm and bid fair to be very successful.

On March 19th, the Normal school presented the comic opera, “The Little Tycoon/’ to an appreciative audience at the Grand opera house. The local Eymphony Orchestra assisted in making the performance very successful.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 620 —

By the way of Chicago we hear that there was recently organized in Indiana the St. Joseph County Amateur Athletic Federation with headquarters at South Bend.

The constitution and the by-laws of this federation, while based on that of the Cook County organization, have been drawn up to fit local conditions.

It is worthy of special mention that in the constitution the South Bend Municipal Recreation Committee is represented by its executive committee. This ties the local federation to a responsible community organization.

VENTILATION: EXPERIMENTS OF THE NEW YORK STATE COMMISSION.

By JOSEPH HERZSTEIN, Secretary of the Commission.

The New York State Commission on Ventilation presented at the meeting of the American Public Health Association in December, 1914, a report on some results of the past year's work. In view of the widespread interest in this subject, the report is abstracted below for the readers of The Survey.	,

The commission, which consists of C. E. A. Winslow, chairman; D. D. Kimball, Frederic S. Lee, James Alexander Miller, Earle

B.	Phelps and Edward Lee Thorndike, was appointed at the request of the New York Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor, as one of the activities of its Department of Social Welfare.

Funds were provided by Elizabeth Milbank Anderson, who, in making a munificent gift of over a half million dollars to the association, designated the sum of $50,000 for experimental work in this problem which, though it vitally affects the well-being of school children, factory workers and the general public, is as yet unsolved.

NOTE:—In this summary of the first year’s work of the New York Commission on Ventilation, Dr. Herzstein indicates the report as preliminary. Further investigations will be carried ouf of the important factor of humidity, and of the effect of these tests on women. Those who have had much to do with factory and office workers of both sexes, surmise that women will be found much more sensitive both to a temperature of S6 degrees and to stale air, than men have been proved.

In the meantime. Dr. Herzstein’s warning against rash generalizations from these experiments is timely. Over-warm air is still unhealthful, and stale air is at least unpleasant. Present methods of ventilation should be continued until the whole truth of the matter is known. Again and again in the history of public health, has been seen a return to long-estab’ished ideas abandoned because some new discovery seemed to overthrow them.

Take, for instance, the old idea that typhoid fever was one of the air-borne infections and could pass directly from patient to nurse. After the discovery of the germ of typhoid fever, this idea was ridiculed, for it seemed that only food or drink could carry infection. Slowly accumulating evidence since then has shown that the old idea, though based on false reasoning, was true in fact; and “contact infection” is recognized as a decided danger in hospital work.—Editor Survey.

Digitized by v^.ooQle
-— 621 —

The first progress report of the commission covers the practically completed experimental work on two of the problems planned for investigation. The first of these is a study of the effect of temperature on bodily and mental efficiency. The second is a similar study of the effect on the organism of fresh and stagnant air. Observations on body temperature, pulse-rate, blood pressure and respiration were used to give indices of bodily responses to the air conditions studied. In like manner, tests involving processes of attention and discrimination, association, memory, and judgment were used to measure mental efficiency.

The experimental work was carried on in the elaborately equipped ventilation laboratories of the College of the City of New York. Ninety-three paid college students, about twenty years old, served as subjects in the several series of experiments. Each series lasted from one to eleven weeks, for periods of from four to eight hours a day. Four subjects were usually observed at a time.

Certain physiological results may be briefly summarized: Exposure to an outer temperature of 68 degrees F., caused a slight fall in body temperature and a drop in the reclining pulse-rate. At 75 degrees there was, in four out of five experiments, a slight rise in temperature, and at 86 F. all experiments showed a rise. The reclining pulse-rate was not regularly affected, but it was found that on passing from a reclining to a standing position the quickening of the pulse-rate was decidedly greater at the higher temperatures than at the lower one.

The vaso-motor efficiency as studied by the Crampton method, which takes into consideration the ratio between the changes in the pulse-rate and blood pressure on changing from the reclining to the standing positions, was found to be 50 per cent greater at 68 degrees than at 86 degrees. Other more intensive physiological observations on respiration and body metabolism failed to show any relation between these factors and different temperature conditions.

The psychological results are based upon such simple tests as color naming, cancellation, naming of opposites, typewriting, and mental multiplication. A small money incentive was offered for marking out the mental multiplication problems, but the subjects were given a choice between working and idling or reading a light novel.

These tests did not indicate any change in mental efficiency as a result of high temperatures, nor did the temperature of the room affect the inclination of the subjects to cjo mental work or their ability to concentrate on it.

On the other hand, inclination to do physical work was lessened at the higher temperature. In a four weeks’ test with four subjects who had the option of lounging about or lifting a dumb-bell

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 622 —

to a known height, the amount of work done on the cool days was 15 per cent greater than on the warm days. This extra work on cool days was entirely voluntary. A record of sensation of personal comfort showed that the subjects preferred lower temperatures, 68 to 75 degrees to that of 86 degrees F.

Side by side with these studies determining the significance of temperature in ventilation, an analysis was made of the importance of chemically pure air, or, in other words, fresh air compared with unremoved, expired air. The same physiological observations and psychological tests were used. On fresh-air days, a supply of 45 cubic feet per minute per person was allowed. On stagnant days there was no change of air at all, the products of respiration being allowed to accumulate in the tightly closed room.

Carbon dioxide was present in the air at the end of fresh-air days in the average proportion of seven parts per 10,000; on stagnant days, in the proportion 37.9 parts per 10,000. A summary of the results of all the experiments in which physiological observations were made shows that the stagnant condition exerted no different physiological effect from the fresh-air condition. As far as mental efficiency is concerned, neither the amount of mental work done under maximal effort nor the inclination to do mental work, was affected by the freshness or the staleness o fair.

The only observations which showed any difference between the effects of fresh air and stagnant air, were those of appetite. In certain of the experiments standardized lunches were served to the subjects and records were kept of the .exact weight of all food consumed. The subjects of these experiments were kept in the observation room for eight hours a day. On the fresh-air days, the average caloric consumption per subject was 1,620; on the stagnant days, 1,492 calories. On the fresh-air days 8.6 per cent more food was consumed. Later experiments, however, seem to indicate that this apparent effect may have been illusory.

The comfort votes of the subjects on the days with and without air-supply were kept in two experiments lasting nine weeks in all. There seems to have been a slight preference for the stagnant air condition.

The results of the first year's work of the commission have shown that moderately high and very high room temperatures do exert physiological changes away from the normal, such as elevation of body temperature, increase in reclining heart-beat rate, increase in the excess of the standing over the reclining heart rate, fall in Crampton value, together with an appreciable diminution of desire to do physical work.

The experiments have further shown that apart from a lessening of the appetite as a result of breathing stagnant air no differences

Digitized by CjOOQle
<— 623 —

in the physiological and. psychological responses of the subject existed as a result of breathing fresh outdoor air or stagnant air with nine times as much carbon dioxide, with exhaled moisture, accompanying organic matter and hypothetical poisons.

Although the commission draws no final conclusion on any point as yet, its experimental work thus far has done two things: first, it has definitely established the importance of the equable room temperature in ventilation; and second, it has shown, with only one doubtful exception, that the factor of chemical purity of air is certainly subordinate to the factor of temperature.

It is necessary to carefully guard against erroneous practices resulting from misinterpretation of these conclusions. Ventilation, or air-change in a room, is needed now as much as ever; stagnant air in an occupied room, with a general rise in temperature and accumulation of odors, is as disagreeable now as ever. The results of the work of the commission re-establish the fact that the illefTects of bad ventilation are attributable more to the temperature of the air than to its chemical purity.

Ventilating an occupied room by means of supplying air at an equable temperature, is an efficient means for removing the general “crowd” odor which arises as a result of occupation; it is an efficient method for preventing the harmful results of overheating. It allows for dispelling and breaking up the layers of hot, moist air next to the body, which, unless removed, retard the necessary heat loss of the body and thus bring about the physiological reactions just recorded,—reactions of a body struggling with the temperature of its atmospheric environment.

A FOREIGN VIEW OF COMPETITIVE ATHLETICS.

On various occasions The Journal has entered a protest against the widespread tendency in the United States toward the extension of competitive athletics in schools.1 The objections are manifold, and involve questions relating to the dominance of extracurriculum activities over the more serious aims of schlosatic institutions, as well as problems concerning the health of the participants. Our concern with the subject has, however, been limited primarily to its hygienic aspects. The danger of overdoing—the abuse of the bodily powers—is the feature which has been foremost in the agitation.

1. Athletics in the Naval Academy, Current Comment, The Journal A. M. A., Feb. 25, 1911, p. 597; Effects of Strenuous Athletics in the Navy, editorial, Jan. 6, 1912, p. 40; Athletic Sports in Relation to Health, March 21, 1914. p. 936; Athletic Sport versus Competitive Athletics, April 4, 1914, p. 1094; The Hygiene of Athletic Sports—Rowing, April 11, 1914, p. 1172; Collegiate Athletic Sports, June 20, 1914, p. 1967; High School Athletics, Nov. 14, 1914, p. 1765.

Digitized by

Google
— 624 —

That it has not failed to arouse some interest in wider circles is attested by the comments of correspondents on our editorial attitude, as well as by a growing public concern in the matter at issue.

The contentions of The Journal are shared likewise by European authorities to whom the question of permitting students of various ages to engage in competitive sports has been submitted in a specific way bv the Prussian government. In order to discover undeveloped athletic “talent” among the students of the high schools and universities of the German Empire, in anticipation of their being trained for the projected Olympic Games, a clever and presumably effective scheme was proposed. The German committee for the Olympiad suggested the institution of competitive games under the auspices of athletic associations in many places. The participants were to be students without previous special athletic training who would be an-abled to demonstrate an inherent fitness in an open competition. The events were to include swimming matches, running and jumping contests of various orders, such as ioo, 400 and 1,500 meter races, and numerous other exercises. Although it was assumed that such contests of the untrained would tend to spread broadcast the appreciation of the importance of physical exercise, yet the foremost underlying intent of the plan was undoubtedly to discover the exceptional candidate in order that he could subsequently be trained for the development of latent possibilities of athletic preeminence. From the latter point of view the aim of the German committee was well conceived.

The experts of the. Prussian government have not sanctioned the proposed plan. It was submitted to the physiologist Rubner and the clinician Kraus, professors in the University of Berlin. In their report2 they do not belittle the hygienic value of athletic sports, and they admit that competitive games frequently serve to awaken interest in the need of physical education and improved health through exercise. It is contended, however, that any system of athletics which finds its best expression in competition, and has as its chief end the development of athletic supremacy, fails to meet the real hygienic needs of youth and to serve for the proper perfection of the body. The excesses and the evils of athletics which have grown up in England and America, where this form of sport has received its greatest impetus, are brought home to the German committee. They are reminded that here the organization of competitive athletics is. attended with an undue sacrifice of time at the expense of the intellectual pursuits. The contests degenerate into a public entertain-

»	2.	Rubner,	M.. and Kraus, F.; Gutachten der konlglichen wissenschaftlichen

Deputation fur das Medizinalwesen vom 11 Februar 1914, betreffend sportliche Uebungen von Schulern, Vrtljschr. f. gerichtl. Med., 1914, xlviii, 304.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 625 —

ment with all the drawbacks of the arena. The development of the body is carried out along lines of extreme specialization.

Physical exercise, if it is to be of real hygienic service, has an object quite different from the preparation of a specially equipped individual trained for a game. Exercise is intended to benefit all the muscles and all the pupils. Its aim is to advance the bodily equipment of the great numbers of our youth ; otherwise our so-called physical education fails to serve the community at large. Athletic prowess necessitates taxing the organism to the very limit of its endurance; it is a dangerous expedient and should never become an experiment. The idea of athletic competition must not be transplanted to the schools, where it is certain to endanger the health of the average group of students.

The conclusions of Rubner and Kraus are not only to be endorsed, but deserve widespread publication because they ought to carry weight as sane judgments of competent observers. It does not matter here what the individual exercises are to which' the German experts specifically object, and which the government is thus committed to exclude. They comprise particularly such trials as may unduly tax the heart and lungs. School authorities are reminded that races for schoolboys must not be made too strenuous; the exertion must not become too prolonged or too severe. The 400 and 1,500 meter races, for example, are forbidden. Pupils with heart affections, anemic individuals and young persons with impaired respiratory function are warned against participation. Exercise is intended to benefit, not to injure the individual. . In the army and navy the more difficult forms of sport are permissible; but here we are dealing with a chosen group of well-trained subjects. They are prepared for the task of exertion.

Let no one construe such checks on competitive games as a movement against physical training and gymnastics. The latter should receive every encouragement that a rational system deserves; but the propaganda for a recognition of the value of bodily exercise carried out in any suitable form must be based on a system of health-promoting practices. Competition belongs to the specialist, who must insure himself against the consequences. He should not be allowed to set the standard for athletic sports.—Editorial, March 13, 1915, Journal Am. Medical Assn.

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 626 —

ATHLETIC NOTES

By E. HAUG, DeWitt Clinton High 8chool Now York City.

Franz Kanis, of the Newark (N. J. Turn Verein, won the all-around gymnastic championship at the Panama-Pacific Exposition March 26 and 27 with a grand total of 340.50 points. In addition to this victory his club won the “Club Prize” offered by the A. A. U. Two weeks previous Kanis won the all-around gymnastic championship of the Metropolitan (New York) District. Peter Hoi, of the Norwegian Turn Verein, Brooklyn, who finished second to Kanis in the Metropolitan championship, was beaten by Rothgeb, a San Francisco gymnast. Of the four events (horizontal bar, side horse, parallel bars, and long horse) Kanis captured three and finished second in the fourth. Following is the result of the three best performers :

Horizontal bar—Won by Franz Kanis, Newark Turn Verein, with 85 points; Peter Hoi, Norwegian Turn Verein, second, with 82.50 points; Rottman, Baltimore Y. M. C. A., third, with 40.25 points.

Side Horse—Won by Kanis, with 85.50 points; Rothgeb, San Francisco, second, with 84.25 points; Rottman, third, with 79 points. Parallel Bars—Won by Kanis, with 86.95 point§; Hoi, second, with 85.25 points; Rothgeb, third, with 84.50 points.

Long Horse—Won by Hoi, with 84.50 points; Kanis, second, with 82.75 points; Rothgeb, third, with 80 points.

Total number of points scored: Kanis 340.50; Rothgeb 328.50; Hoi 325.25.

Ray Dutcher, the former Inter-collegiate and Metropolitan champion club swinger, was defeated at the Panama-Pacific Exposition by his team mate Lester McLoud. Both men represented the New York Athletic Club.

J. F. Dunn, the champion tumbler, also of the N. Y. A. C. retained his title despite strong opposition.

J. Gleason, formerly of the West Side (N. Y.) Y. M. C. A., now competing for the Los Angeles A. C., was the winner of the flying rings event.

New Pole Vault Record.—Samuel Bellah, of the Multnomah A.

C.	(Portland, Ore.) at a recent indoor meet established a new world’s record for indoor pole vaulting. He cleared the bar at 12 ft. in. The previous indoor record was 12 ft. 7 in.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 627 —

The Y. M. C. A. Hexathlon, recently conducted by the Y. M.

C.	A. League of North America, was a record event. Ninety-nine associations with 3,415 competitors took part. Of these, fourteen were in class A; forty-two in class B; forty in class C. One thousand eight hundred and eighty dieffrent individuals qualified in the finals. In response to an inquiry from several Associations in Canada, the contest was opened to Canada for participation. Six Canadian Associations took advantage of the opportunity.

The best three records in each of the six events were as follows:

60-yard Potato Race.

1.	A. P. Connor, Army and Navy Association, Newport, R. I., 13 1-5 seconds.

2.	F. Nickolas, Chicago, West Side Association, Chicago, 111., 13 4-5 seconds.

3.	Chas. Binder, Rochester, N. Y., 14 seconds.

220-yard Potato Race.

1.	W. S. Jackson, Chicago, Central, Chicago, 111., 58 seconds.

2.	Chas. Kelly, Toronto, Central, Toronto, Ont., 59 1-5 seconds.

3.	J. Alexander, Belleville, Ont., 59 1-5 seconds.

Running High Jump.

1.	A. M. Bohnert, San Francisco, Cal., 5 feet, 10 5-8 inches.

2.	P. Guyler, El Paso, Tex., 5 feet, 9 1-4 inches.

3.	Wm. Sullivan, San Francisco, Cal., 5 feet, 9 inches.

Fence Vault.

1.	Geo. Woodman, Fort Worth, Texas, 7 feet, 6 inches.

2.	J. McKivor, North Yakima, Wash., 6 feet, 10 inches.

3.	S. L. Eckerd, Brooklyn Navy, 6 feet, 9 inches.

4.	G. H. Stansburg, Louisville, Ky., 6 feet, 9 inches.

Standing Broad Jump.

1.	T. Haskins, Chicago, Central, Chicago, 111., 10 feet, 7 inches.

2.	A. M. Bohnert, San. Francisco, 10 feet. 4 3-4 inches.

3.	J. E. Fitzgerald, Toronto, Central, 10 feet, 3 1-2 inches.

12 pound Shot-Put.

1.	J. L. Macomber, Des Moines, la., 47 feet, 1 inch.

2.	R. E. Rollins, Des Moines, la., 46 feet, 6 inches.

3.	P. Guyler, El Paso, Tex., 46 feet, 4 1-2 inches.

This is the first time that the Hexathlon has been run off indoors. The most notable thing in connection with this monstrous meet is the fact that it is undoubtedly the first time in the history of

Digitized by v^ooQle
— G28 —

amateur athletics, outside of the Turnerbund, when a competitor was placed entirely on his honor as to his standing as an amateur.

The Amateur League of North America, which is the organization under which the Y. M. C. A. athletes compete, in its amateur rules does not conform with those laid down by the Amateur Athletic Union, and in some particulars it appears to better the A. A. U. standards. For instance, the amateur definitipn reads as follows :

I.	Positive Definition.—An amateur athlete is one who participates in competitive gymnastics or athletics for pleasure only and for the physical, mental, moral, and social benefits directly derived therefrom. A professional in athletics is a person who promotes or participates in gymnastics or athletics for any other purpose than the above.

II.	Negative Definition.—An amateur is one who has never entered or competed in any competition for a staked bet, money— private or public—or gate receipts; is not engaged in teaching or assisting in the pursuit of any athletic exercise or sport as means of livelihood; has never received any bonus or payment in lieu of loss of time while playing as a member of any club or other organization, or any consideration whatever, for any service as an athlete, except actual traveling or hotel expenses; has never sold or pledged his prizes; has never promoted an athletic competition for personal gain.

An athlete who has competed with or against a professional for a prize, or where gate receipts are charged, (except as may be specially provided for by the by-laws of the league,) or has entered in any competition under a name other than his own, shall be ineligible for registration and competition as an amateur.

The Y. M. C. A. League considers that it has solved the problem of scoring points so that there shall be an absolute fairness to all competitors. The method which was employed in the Hexathlon and which was the result of serious deliberation by the physical directors in all parts of the country gives a certain allotment of points on the basis of time made in an event, or, if it be a test with the weight, the distance made, and all of the standings were computed from this foundation. It is maintained that this makes for keener competition, though it is admitted that in forcing himself to the utmost at all times there might in some instances be injury to an athlete. The possibility, however, is considered negligible, and the benefits from the Y. M. C. A. point system, also used for many years by the N. A.

G.	U., are believed to far overshadow all defects in the plan.

Digitized by
GYMNASIUM AND PLAYGROUND

By H. ARMIN 8TECHER, University of“ Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

PLAY ZONES IN NEW YORK STREETS.

By CAUL BECK, University Settlement, New York.

The order of Police Commissioner Arthur Woods, closing to traffic from 3 to 6130 p. m. one block in each of nineteen streets in congested sections of New York city in order that children may play in safety, gave joy last summer to tens of thousands of children and relieved thousands of parents from anxiety. Moreover, it indicated a new social spirit in that department of public service which has been often criticized for lack of such spirit.

Other cities have made a success of such “play zones.” The Playground Association of Chicago maintained several, securing the co-operation of the police department, providing equipment for volley ball, playground ball and other games, and placing a trained play leader in charge of each zone.

That the streets of New York are the real playgrounds for 600,-000 children was brought out in a pamphlet The City Where Crime is Play, issued last spring by the People’s Institute. The order of Commissioner Woods is a recognition of the part the police may take in crime prevention. It puts the police in the relation of “big brother” to the children in their play.

Social workers have volunteered to help administer and supervise the play zones. For the zone in front of the University Settlement, resident workers arranged an “opening day.” The oldest resident, who recently served as park commissionerfi provided a street organ for dancing. Anothtr resident turned the crank. Others led the dancing and tried to supervise the crowd of children that collected.

The police commissioner’s inspector of the traffic squad in charge of the street play zones was invited into conference at the settlement. It was a new kind of work for him, but he saw at once the importance of roping off an arena, and providing reliable supervision. The police department furnished six stanchions. The settlement agreed to furnish rope and supervisors. With a schedule for street-organ concerts three afternoons a week, a roped arena, and an extra policeman to help the volunteer supervisors, most of the original difficulties disappeared. While the girls danced, the boys played basketball, goals being provided by the settlement.

When store-keepers complained about the inconveniences of clos-

Digitized by C-ooQle
— 630 —

ing the block to traffic, a letter from the police commissioner was shown then, appealing particularly for their co-operation. Out of twenty-eight store-keepers, twenty-five said it was a “fine thing!” Complaint came only from a junk dealer, a wagon works and a sales stable. The neighbors have organized a citizen’s advisory committee, consisting of fourteen citizens, among them store-keepers, the head-nurse of the milk station and settlement workers.

In addition to the zone on Eldridge street, eighteen other zones are in operation, nine on the lower East Side, twelve altogether in Manhattan, two in the Bronx and five in Brooklyn. Each zone is under the voluntary supervision of a local settlement or organization of some kind.

In the case of the lower East Side, the East Side Neighborhood Association called a conference of all the managers of street play zones in that section with a view of devising practical plans for handling the children, providing play leaders and supervisors, and co-operating with the Bureau of Recreation of the Department^ of Parks in a scheduled use among the ten play zones of the street organ which that department has loaned. Settlement residents feel that they are not equipped to assume continuous supervision of street play zones, and that eventually the responsibility of getting maximum play results from the street play zones should be that of the Bureau of Recreation of the Department of Parks.—The Survey.

PLAYGROUND PROPAGANDA.

By HENRY S. CURTIS, Olivet, Mich.

In a democracy the problem of every reform, of every social movement, is primarily a problem of the education of the public. The ordinances and improvements needed can not, as a rule, be secured without this popular education, and if they are secured, it is a question whether they will do good or evil in a city that is not ready to administer and take advantage of them. The problem of the playground association everywhere is primarily one of propaganda. These associations can not hope to purchase and maintain a system of playgrounds for the city. Their problem is to get the people to want playgrounds and be willing to maintain them. This means that in some way they must educate the people, for the knowledge that would demand play facilities for children or that would enable a city to lay out and administer a play system which would be worth while, is not found in most places at present. The playground association will have to raise the money to maintain a play system up to the time when the city is willing to appropriate for it. From every point of view, therefore, it is to its advantage to educate its public as soon as it can.

Digitized by C^ooQle
— 631 —

Amongst all primitive peoples childhood is spent mostly in play, but conditions have changed greatly. During the past half century most countries have made education free and compulsory. The rapidly expanding field of knowledge has offered larger and larger tasks, and children have been loaded with burdens such as children never before were called upon to carry. The public in general has aiwe-ciated the value of the education that has come through the school, but it has not appreciated the value of the natural education through play which it has replaced. The result has often been that the children have been driven and goaded until childhood has lost most of its joy and brightness. For a considerable proportion of the children a scholastic program of studies has never been much more educational than any other form of child labor. As soon as the people of any city appreciate the significance of play* in education the problems of the playground association are largely solved.

MUSCULAR DEVELOPMENT, THE CAUSES FOR THE LACK OF IT AND THE VALUE OF PHYSICAL EXERCISE. *

By HENRY M. FRIEDMAN, M.D., LL.B., Acting Assistant Surgeon, U. S. P. H. and M.-H. Service, New York.

In this age of mental development, when the achievement of success can come only through the exercise of the mental capacities, we are apt to forget the maxim “mens sana in corpore sano” and allow the balance between mind and body to be broken. To be sure, the material return in occupations requiring the use of the muscles alone cannot ever equal the return from occupations requiring the exercise of the mind—if we are to measure success by return—nevertheless, the sphere of one’s usefulness with a poorly developed body is necessarily limited and short-lived. Civilization unquestionably tends toward an overdevelopment of the mind at the expense of the body. Recently, and in recognition of the marked muscular deterioration of the civilized races, the necessity for improving their development has received much attention.

The term “physical development” applies mainly to muscular development. A short muscular individual could hardly be spoken of as a poor physical specimen, nor could a tall one with a poor musculature be spoken of as having a good physique. The muscle is the standard, since lack of such development brings with itself a train of physical defects. Besides, the human body “exhibits only two forms of vital action necessary to its existence—first, that of the various secreting and excreting organs in pursuing their functions;

* Journal American Medical Association.

Digitized by CaOOQle
— G32 —

and second, the entire muscular apparatus, whether of ordinary muscles, arterial coats or otherwise.” The importance of the muscular system is, therefore, apparent.

Considering briefly the main points in connection with the muscular system, we find that the muscle—essentially a connective tissue —is developed from the mesoblast of the primitive germ layer by an elongation of the embryonic cells and by a multiplication of their nuclei. The unit of muscular tissue is the muscle fiber. It is estimated that the longest fiber does not exceed il/2 inches and that the width varies from 1-400 to 1-600 of an inch. Those muscles whose function it is to give a wide range of motion have long but few fibers, while those requiring strength mainly have short but numerous fibers. The absolute force of a muscle is proportionate to the number of fibers, that is, to its “cross-section.” There are about 501 muscles in the human body, of which about 405 are voluntary or skeletal, and the rest involuntary or vital. The index of muscle-efficiency is its power of contraction; that is, the power of doing mechanical work without fatigue. Not all the muscle-energy, however, is expended in doing mechanical work—about five times as much is required in the production of body heat.

The muscles might be called the “internal respiratory” organs in which the ultimate exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxid takes place. The blood gives up the oxygen and receives and carries off the carbon dioxid. To accomplish this, the muscles are supplied with an exceedingly fine network of capillaries. Increased muscular activity means increased respiratory efforts, since there is greater oxidation and, threfore, a greater loss of carbon dioxid and a consequently greater demand for oxygen. It is this increased respiratory exchange in muscular activity which increases the nutrition and general health of the body. The greater the muscle power—and that is in proportion to the number of fibers and especially to their width —the greater the endurance of the organism.

As a general rule, muscular development is “better in cold or temperate climates than in warm climates; there is less bodily exercise, but this is offset by taking less food, augmented skin action and, therefore, increased circulation. In colder climates there is, of course, greater force required to disintegrate the animal tissues to generate heat and the like.” Furthermore, the muscular development of people living in the interior is better than that of those living on the coast, and in the mountains better than in the interior. People in the interior are usually farmers whose occupation necessitates outdoor life and the use of the muscles; the reason for the hardiness of the people in the mountains is, of course, apparent.

“Lack of muscular development betrays no specific pathologic condition; there is a simple atrophy of the fibers, which diminish in

Digitized by OiOOQLe
— 633 —

width, and there is an increase of connective tissue between the fibers.” Very frequently there is an increase in fatty tissue, which gives greater girth to the muscle while the fibers are atrophied—a condition which is analogous to the condition in pseudohypertrophic muscular paralysis. The internal parimysium, in these cases, increases at first, is then transformed into fatty tissue while the muscle tissue itself may be well preserved, but later the muscle fibers are forced apart and atrophy. This is the condition found in “fat rickets” and obesity.

Individuals with this simple atrophy present a flabbiness and lack of muscular tone which is especially noticeable in the facial muscles and which gives the face a peculiar expression—or lack of expression—which really amounts, in marked cases, to a facial myopathy ; the face looks flabby and the skin droops markedly toward the angle of the jaw. This peculiarity of facial expression betrays the existence of atrophy or weakness of the muscles elsewhere, namely over the abdominal wall—accompanied by hernia—and by noting this sign a great many cases of hernia can be detected.

The great influx of Europeans into this country particularly interests us in the physical condition of these people, both because their well-being depends largely on their physical ability to stand the hardships consequent on settlement in a new country, and especially because that settlement here, in large numbers, might influence the physical character of the people already here- The following remarks about our immigrants are based on five years experience as medical inspector at Ellis Island, the main port of immigration on the Atlantic Coast. Beginning with the races occupying the Mediterranean coast, the first to arrest our attention are the Greeks. They differ from their ancient forerunners not only in language but also in physique. If regarded from the standpoint of physical development they are the exact antitheses of their ancient progenitors, being short, small-headed and thin-muscled. A large percentage of them are undersized and do not present the physical development of their age. This is especially noticeable in boys between the ages of 16 and 20, who do not present the development, physical or sexual, of boys of 12; many of the Greeks have arrested sexual development or total absence of it—eunuchoidism. Individuals with arrested sexual development have a peculiar facial character due to the absence of any beard and to the presence of wrinkles . especially noticeable over the angle of the mouth. Once this facial characteristic is noted the condition cannot be overlooked or mistaken.

The modern Greeks are not, in reality, the direct descendants of the ancients; numerous wars, invasions and migrations have changed their ethnology entirely. The Macedonians, a people living

Digitized by Google
— 634 —

north of Thessaly in Greece, are less well-developed—probably for the same reasons—than the Greeks.

Another nationality from which the United States draws a larg£ part of its immigrants is that of the Italians, but here it should be remembered that the northern and southern Italians are two different races and present different physical characteristics. The northern Italians have the characteristics of—and belong to—the Slavic and Germanic races; the southern Italians are a mixture of Italian, Greek and African. They are small, dark and of a poor musculature. The percentage of undersized individuals and of those having arrested sexual development is much smaller than among the Greeks.

The Turks are a well-developed people—quite a contrast to their neighbors, the Greeks.

The Armenians, while not really Europeans, live chiefly in European Turkey; they are a very poorly developed people.

Of the people inhabiting the Iberian Peninsula—the Spanish, the Basques and the Portuguese—the Basques are the best while the Portuguese are the poorest.

What are the factors operating in the physical deterioration of the Mediterranean peoples? Why should not the present peoples be as strong as those of old? Undoubtedly the frequent intermixture or crossing with inferior blood from the African and Asiatic coasts is largely responsible for it. Are not the present peoples the “re-cessives,, of the Mendelian school of evolution? According to this doctrine, there are no transitional types on a crossing between a superior “dominant” and an inferior or “recessive” types, but the result is three “dominants” to one “recessive.” Where, then, are the “dominants”? No doubt, in harmony with this doctrine it is possible to conceive of the disappearance of the “dominants” from the fact that the Mediterranean countries have always been the “cock-pit” of Europe, where nearly all the battles were fought and which has required the sacrifice of the best—physically—of the people, leaving only the “recessives.” Might not their physical inferiority be explained on the principle that their frequent intermixture with widely different races is analogous to the result, in animals, of the crossing between different varieties of the same species—“mon-grelism”? Another factor in their condition is the endemicity of various diseases in that region, especially malaria. Besides, they are a poverty-stricken people, greatly underfed; among the Greeks the poor live almost entirely on olives.

Likewise, with the southern Italians, while the frequent crossing with inferior races and the many exhausting wars may have helped to keep the standard of physical development lower than among the northern peoples, their mode of living, their great poverty and the endemicity of a number of diseases are undoubtedly responsible fac-

Digitized by
— 635 —

tors. The Italians are a poverty-stricken people, underfed and underworked; they feed mainly on carbohydrates, rarely consuming any fresh meats. Even discounting the fact that they live in warm climates, they consume too little. It is true that, in spite of their physical inferiority, they are a long-lived people, but only so long as they remain on their own soil, or, if away from it, under similar conditions. If transplanted to another soil under adverse conditions they fare badly. The Italians age so prematurely that their longevity is of little use to them from an economic standpoint, since a prematurely aged people merely vegetate.

In this country a large number of the Italians have taken to tunnel-digging and railroad construction work. Some have gone into the petty tradings, with which we are all familiar. Of those • engaging in the heavier occupations, it is not surprising to note what a large number develop tuberculosis, simply because they are not physically constituted for such work. It is, of course, a question whether any people, no matter how good their physique, can long continue in such occupations with impunity. On the other hand, these Italians, as well as other people who change from a poorer to a better environment, have shown marked improvement in physique after settlement here. In fact, the succeeding generations have a tendency to take on all the characteristics of their neighbors. Boas, in a lecture on anthropology, commented on the fact that European ^immigrants, after their arrival here, changed physically to conform to the types in this country.

Before considering the physical development of the other European races, it might be well to take up a race which seems to belong nowhere, yet is everywhere—the Jews. As a general rule their muscular development is very poor; they are narrow-chested and thin-muscled. They suffer very little from congenital physical defects, but are an extremely neurotic people with a tendency to psychoses in adolescence. They have very little tendency to alcoholic intemperance. While the largest sufferers from hernia—their predisposition to this condition is only a manifestation of weak abdominal muscles accompanying a general muscular deficiency—the Jews, also, have a tendency to age prematurely.

The Jews are said to be comparatively free from tuberculosis— owing to an immunity gained by living, for many centuries, in crowded and unsanitary ghettoes. Besides, unlike the Italians or the Irish, they never engage in occupations beyond their physical capacity. When they do, they contract tuberculosis just as frequently as other peoples. In this country they are engaged largely in the garment trades, occupations entailing close confinement, very long hours of labor and poor hygienic surroundings; and among them tuberculosis is very common.

Digitized by C,ooQle
— 636 —

In the light of the poor physical development of the Mediterranean peoples, explained in part on the ground of the frequency of crossing among those races, how can the physical inferiority of the Jews be explained, who have practically never crossed at all, but have remained racially pure?

If, on the Mendelian doctrine, they were a race of muscular “dominants” in biblical times, they should still be so. The Jews, however, have gone to the other extreme in their racial purity. They have been too close in-breeders, resulting in what might be called “racial consanguinity or incest.” Breeding of this kind, while not productive of the physical defects of promiscuous breeding, results in the production of a highly sensitive but weak organism with marked neurotic tendencies, which tendencies are so greatly exemplified by the Jews. Or their continual wandering may have caused a “racial fatigue” and be the reason for the physical inferiority. Besides, their frequent migrations have not allowed them to engage in any definite occupations, but forced them to engage, on a larger or smaller scale, in trading, an occupation hardly conducive to muscular development, but, in fact, tending to cause atrophy from disuse.

But in the countries where they have been allowed the privileges of their neighbors, their original sturdiness has asserted itself; they have mixed freely with their neighbors and intermarriage has especially been productive of good types. In this country the Jews have a large representation in athletic circles.

Coming to the Slavic races, their most numerous representatives are the Russians. The peasantry are among the finest specimens of muscular development; they are a hard-working agricultural people. But even those from the larger cities are well developed. Of the other Slavic races the Servians, Croatians, Bulgarians, Slovenians, ets., have good physiques. The Poles have the poorest, owing, no doubt, to the many exhaustinng wars in which they have enngaged and which have had the effect, so to say, of devitalizing them.

The Germanic races, which, for the purpose of this paper, may include the various German principalities, the Dutch, the Scandinavians and the German Swiss, are, on the whole, good specimens of physical development. The Dutch farmer is a particularly sturdy person. He breeds a large family of well-developed children; from thirteen to fifteen is a number not uncommon in one family. The Danes, from their proximity to the Germans, closely resemble the latter in their physical characteristics. The Norwegians and Swedes are without reservation the finest types of physical development, with the Norwegians probably the better of the two.

A defect among the Germans, which has recently evoked marked comment, is myopia. The Germans are even to-day the greatest exponents of the sciences and the arts in almost every branch. Is it

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— 637 •—

not possible that a race so largely engaged in occupations requiring the close application of the eyes, would change physically to conform to just such needs? For it is well known that myopes have the advantage of being able to magnify near objects. This is not advanced in explanation of the German predisposition to myopia; at any rate, it offers an interesting field for investigation and possibly for preventive optics. In the north of Germany, among the Danes, there are many albinos, individuals having a lack of pigmentation in the chorioid of the eye with resulting defect of vision.

The Magyars, originating with the Finns in Asia, have in the centuries gone by entirely lost their Tartar characteristics from frequent intermixture with their invaders. The peasantrv are an especially well-developed peqple.

The French have good physiques. The Belgians, of whom the greater part are Flemish, are also well-developed. The Swiss partake of the characteristics of the races to which they belong.

On the British Isles we do not find the muscular sturdiness of the continental northerners. The English are the better developed, the Irish the poorer. In so far as the Irish are concerned, their poor physiques are due to their extreme poverty and the consequent under-nutrition. It is a significant fact that the Irish from the country are even more poorly developed than those from the cities. This may be due to the fact that in the country they live almost entirely on vegetables, consuming very little fresh meats. Fresh meats are absolutely necessary to muscle-building, even though vegetarians claim the contrary and cite instances of athletes accomplishing athletic feats on a vegetable diet. These persons are the exceptions and not the average. Besides, the ordinary labors of life and especially those of the poor people are far more exacting and arduous than the most difficult of athletic feats. Furthermore, the ingestion of proteids is absolutely necessary to conserve the proteid of the body. May not the tendency of the Irish to alcoholic intemperance be dietetic in nature, and an attempt by Nature thus to conserve the proteid of the body? May not the absence of a meat diet be responsible for the notoriously bad teeth of the Irish peasantry? May not also the large number of pelvic deformities among Irish women be dietetic in nature ?

The Irish are particularly prone to tuberculosis, but not while they continue on their own poverty-stricken farms, encountering no new adversity. When, however, they come to this country and encounter the keen competition rampant here, they seem to lose their staying-power and a great many contract tuberculosis. On the other hand, probably on the doctrine of the “survival of the fittest,” those who weather the conditions at first, later on improve wonderfully, and it is then that we get the “burly” Irishman. He is really a oro-

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— 638 —

duct of this country—a regeneration of a being previously held down by adversity.

What interests us most as students of eugenics in the physical development of the European peoples is whether, in view of the great influx of people from that continent into this country, a crossing of our blood with that of races having a much poorer physical development, will have a deleterious effect on our own physical stamina, whether a crossing with the better northern races will have a tendency to improve our own standard of muscular development, or whether there will be no effect. If we take the view that the poorly developed races of Europe owe their underdevelopment to a distinct degeneration or atavistic retrogression in the evolution of man, due in part to the frequent crossing between widely different races, then their coming here in very large numbers might have the same effect. If, on the other hand, we take the view that their poor physiques are due only to their extreme poverty, poor hygienic surroundings, ignorance and disease, then their coming here—if properly distributed— can but elevate people who can be elevated in no better way. At all events, southern Europe offers a very fertile field for, what might be called, “philanthropic eugenics.”

Aside from the effect on our own physical stamina of the ingestion of a great number of physically inferior people, our own mode of living is fast converting us into a race of Lilliputians. There is an undoubted trend away from work involving the use of muscles. We are breeding a race of people with big minds and little bodies. People are willing to engage in occupations far more arduous, though less remunerating, as long as it is not “menial.” The trend in this direction is poor economy because our bodies are unable to supply the divers needs of an overactive mind. Overactivity of the mind leads to physical exhaustion just as the exhaustion in manic conditions is due to an activity of the mind out of proportion to the power of the body. In every large center we see evidences of the “strenuous life,” in the people who walk with their heads down, fists clenched and looking neither to the right nor to the left as if they were “bucking” a foot-ball. It is a constant nervous strain—“the pace that kills,” and in bodies often so puny that the pace does not last long. This might be well enough if we devoted ourselves to methods to counteract this tendency and to keep up the balance between mind and muscle, namely, systematic physical training or exercises. Without this we will surely degenerate into a race of weaklings, neurasthenics and preseniles.

There is a tendency now to a too early education of the infant, together with a “high-pressure” system of teaching enforced through frequent competitive tests. In ancient Greece children were not educated at all before the age of 8. Now we start the child at the age

Digitized by v^,ooQle
G39 —

of 6, and if many parents had their way it would be at an earlier age. There is nothing lost in delaying the education of the child until a later age, because the intelligence and comprehension develop very rapidly without the stimulus of education. A child whose brain is not befogged by too early an attempt at education grasps its learning much more quickly later on. Were the two years, from 6 to 8, spent in preventing the development of any tendencies toward physical defects or correcting those that have already developed and in forming in the child the habit of physical exercise, the time would be more profitably spent. Inculcate in the mind of the child the desirability of a “sound mind in a sound body.”

In respect to a good physique, therefore, a proper start in life is also essential. Of course, the diseases of childhood, of which rickets stands foremost and rheumatism next, retard the physical development of the child, but with the enlargement of the field of preventive medicine these causes will soon cease to exist.

While hernia, in the adult, is a frequent accompaniment of a weak musculature over the abdominal wall, neurasthenia is by far the most common result of a poor muscular system. It is the result of a poor muscular system being overstimulated by a too active brain. The most characteristic examples of the muscular nature of neurasthenia are the various trade cramps—writers’, telegraphers’, etc. One hardly expects to find these conditions in robust muscular individuals, but only in thin, pale and scrawny individuals. Eye strain —muscular—is another example of this condition.

In women a very serious manifestation of a poor musculature is dystocia uteri. This is almost entirely due to a weak uterine muscle, the result of the lack of exercise which the modern woman takes. It is, on the one hand, the “hot-house woman” who never walks or submits herself to the elements, and, on the other hand, the “factory-woman,” who does work—“the drudgery which forms one of the attributes of civilization—it is superhuman toil which allows of no repair”—but quite beyond her capabilities.

Commonly a poor muscular system is accompanied by an insufficient chest development and expansion. This is brought about by deficient power in the auxilliary muscles of respiration; the resulting insufficient expansion of the lungs undoubtedly predisposes to pulmonary tuberculosis.

Weak and poorly developed muscles, especially in children, are common causes of curvature of the spine and flat-foot. The former condition is due to the lack of the proper balance of the spinal column, given to it by normal muscle; the latter is due to weakness in the plantar flexors and invertors.

The remedy for the increasing tendency toward muscular degeneration and its allied conditions lies in exercise by muscular move-

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 640 —

ment. “Exercise stimulates the entire network of the circulation, and the vital processes resulting from it, without their being exhausted but rather benefited by it.” It is the rational means for the maintenance of the general health. Exercise means regeneration through an increased circulation, accompanied by the throwing off of waste products, and should, therefore, be accompanied by proper and frequent bathing in order to carry off the waste products thrown off by the skin.

Here also, excesses are baneful; too much exercise of mind and body means collapse, while devotion entirely to muscle means its development at the expense of the brain. There is a happy medium within which we could breed a race of people in whom brain and muscle would be equally divided.

“Roman gladiatorial barbarities were not exercises and are not to be compared to Athenian exercises. The decay of Rome and Greece was marked by pensile baths and beds for the wealthy, and barbarous exhibitions for the masses. A desire to witness the danger and even the destruction of others is usually most prominently exhibited by those who would be the least likely to share them themselves. The poorer the muscular development of a race, the greater its admiratiorf for prowess.”

With the increase of physical education there will be a diminution in the desire for the cruel sports such an bull-fights, cock-fights, prize-fights, etc., for these sports are popular only in countries where there is a tendency to such degeneration. “Failing and lost power raises an arena in which the enacted scenes are shocking to a healthier sense.” If athletics of the “sane and safe” kind were more common and universal there would be little enthusiasm for the barbaric sports. The necessity for therapeutic physical exercise arises only from the fact that the trend of civilization is away from work involving the use of the muscles. Where the ground is cultivated there is little need for artificially devised exercise. When the luxury of city life increases there is less desire to toil in the country, and although the present cry is: “Back to the farm,” every one seems to desire “the short life and a merry one.” Socrates said of exercise: “The strength of the body is destroyed by violence and idleness but preserved by exercise.

Shun satiety of food and frequently exercise the body.”

Modern high livers eat plentifully and exercise very little; and while there is some increase in weight it is due to fat and not muscle, being in fact a fatty degeneration of the muscles.

The realization of the rapid decline of muscular development has, however, stimulated exercise enormously, but thus far only those who need it least have been lured to it—namely, the robust minority. The spectators are enthusiastic enough, the greatest en-

Digitized by CaOOQle
— 641 —

thusiasm going to the sports requiring the greatest endurance, yet it is but the enthusiasm displayed in all games of chance. In order to develop the muscular system it is important to take up each group of muscles and develop them separately, not merely improving their esthetic value, but also their power of endurance. In the process of exercise one should never fatigue, nor should one endeavor to be “in trim/’ “in form” or “trained to the minute.” These terms mean the attainment of a “maximum at which one can maintain oneself only for a minute.” Systematic exercise, however, causes a marked increase in volume, strength, elasticity and tone of the muscles, because exercise increases the circulation and hence the nutrition of the muscles and of the entire body. Not the increase in the number of fibers is aimed at through exercise—that remains the same—but an increase in the volume or “cross-section” of the individual fibers and consequently of the entire muscle. The hyperemia which accompanies contraction causes hypertrophy of the individual fibers.

Physical education should, of course, begin during childhood. The year or two spent in kindergarten play might be devoted to a systematic physical training suitable to a^e, sex and physical condition of the child. Burdening the mind of the child with preliminary education is useless and must be gone over again: it leaves no real impression. Throughout the child’s schooling it should be given only as much mental work as its physical condition warrants. Forced education at a high pressure is harmful; it does not increase the child’s worth, while it retards its physical development. During the school course as much attention should be paid to the physical training as to the mental. It should be an actual part of the curriculum —not the waste of an hour or two in the o-vmnansium, usually given over to play—which play, as such, should be encouraged—only it should have its own time. The instructor is usually too busy with the athletes of his class to give any attention to those who need it most. There is too much pride taken in athletic feats and too little in physical attainments.

The instructor should have an actual record of the physical status of each one of his pupils, noting physical defects as they ap^ pear, and to those should be directed his efforts at improvement. A tendency to curvature of the spine should direct the instructor’s attention to exercises tending to strengthen the muscles affected; a tendency of flat-foot should receive appropriate muscle-treatment; narrow-chested children should be taught appropriate breathing exercises. Why not home-work in the physical exercises as in the mental—home-work in the particular kind of exercises the child needs? Enlist the aid of the parents, which can easily be done by explaining the nurpose in view; let the child’s efficiency rating depend on the results. To accomplish this it would be necessary not merely

Digitized by Tooele
— 642 —

to have an athletic instructor, but one who has perhaps less of that quality and more knowledge of the human body—possibly a physician—but one, at least, who has a working idea of the anatomy of the human bodv.

In many colleges, where so much attention is paid to sports and athletics, real physical training in the entire student body is not encouraged. All the attention, and the only attention is paid to those students who can bring home “honors” to the institution. Athletes are persuaded to leave other colleges, expensive “coaches” are hired, delinquent students are given private tutoring at the expense of the athletic associations, but to the real improvement of the real student body no attention is paid.

In conclusion, it might be well to note that, aside from the ability of a well-developed rquscular system to endure the physical hardships of life, a good musculature is necessary in order to have a healthy body; that muscular development is influenced by climatic, dietetic and hygienic conditions; that frequent crossing between widely different races seems to lower the standard of physical development, as well as a too close in-breeding; that, while civilization tends .to a physical deterioration in general, much can be done to check this tendency through intelligent, systematic physical education, begun in childhood and continued throughout life.

Testut, Jean D.: Anatomie de Musculaires, 1854.

Ziegler: Simple Atrophy of Muscles, in Ziegler’s Pathology.

Wilson, J. G.: Diagnosis by Inspection, New York Med. Jour.. July 8, 1911. Editorial, Medical Aspects of Immigration, Med. Rec., Nov. 11, 1911.

Wilson, J. G.: Crossing of the Races, Pop. Sci. Mon., November, 1911.

Boas, Franz: Anthropology, Col. Univ. Press, December, 1908.

•Shultz, Alfred P.: Race or Mongrel, L*. C. Page (& Co., 1908.

Chamberlain. A. F.: The Contact' of “Higher” and “Lower” Races, Pedagogical Seminary, Clark Univ., Worcester, Mass.

Ross, Edward A.: The Causes of Race Superiority, Ann. Polit. and Soc. Sci., July, 1901.

Blundell, John A. F.: The Muscles and Their Story, Lond., Chapman and Hall, 1864.

Lucas-Champoniere, Paul H.: Essai Competitif sur DifTerents Procedes du De-veloppement Musculaire, These, Paris, 1900.

Spencer, Herbert: Intellectual Education, Moral and Physical.

REFERENCES
— 643 —

EDUCATIONAL FEATURES FOR VACATION PLAYGROUNDS.

By W. P. MAC LEAN, Director of Physical Education and Recreation, Topeka, Kansas.

While the value of the playground from the standpoint of character and health building has come to be generally known and recognized, there is another phase that has been but indifferently developed, and that is the peculiar opportunity offered by the playground for study and supplementary work upon lines that have hitherto been considered strictly school-room subjects. No playground has reached its highest point of usefulness to the child which does not offer opportunities for mental exercise and development, any more than a school can be of the highest value which does not offer plenty of opportunity for physical exercise and development.

The appealing thing about the mental pills that may be administered on the playground is that they are all touched by the magic wand of the Fairy Queen of Play-land, which drives away all taint of schoolroom and odor of books so that the small patient eagerly swallows the dose of learning with its sugar-coating of play all unconsciously and even with a relish.

One subject that adapts itself remarkably to playground treatment is the historical pageant. Here the field is as wide as one could wish it. One may range all the way from the Landing of Columbus to the founding of the Town or State. One may roam through the pages of literature from King Arthur to Hiawatha and Sitting Bull; but neither poet nor dramatist may write the playground pageant, nor the playground director either. It must be built up bit by bit, part by part, by the small actors who are to portray them, and so we have an army of children studying not only history but spelling, rhetoric, geography, and expression, and enjoying every minute of it.

A playground need not be an autocracy ruled over by a czar director. It may be an independent and democratic city, with its own mayor, council, commissioners, judges, and chief of police elected by the citizens. It may make its own laws, hold court and punish miscreants who swear, cheat or quit, by forcing them to work upon the sanitary squad which keeps the grounds free of waste paper and stones, upon the repair squad, or, if he be a frequent offender, by sternly banishing him from the playground for a day or so. Here we have political science, civil government, and sociology without a book.

The hot hours of the day may be pleasantly spent in sewing, basket weaving, hammock-making, and other industrial work by both boys and girls.
— 644 —

Folk games and dances may be made educational by accompanying them with a study of their origin, purpose, and the country and peoples whence they came, together with their customs, dress, etc.

On hikes out into the country, the children may study geography and learn about prairies, plains, hills, capes, promontories, bights, bays, inlets, sources, tributaries, deltae, straits, peninsulas, and islands, from seeing them at first hand. The birds and wild animals may also be studied in this way.

One playground that I know of conducted a very interesting botany class. The children made small frames fitted with a glass, much like the ordinary printing frame of the protographic outfit. These they would use to print the impressions of the leaves and plants of the locality upon blueprint paper. They would then fix the print and if they knew the name and characteristics of the tree or plant they would write then? down upon the print under the picture. If they did not know, they looked it up or asked somebody who did know. At the end of the season, prizes were given to those who had the completest and most correct lists.

Geology might be taken in the same way by the collection and classification of specimens.

Another study that has been tried out with more or less success by the playgrounds of several of our larger cities is, “First Aid to the Injured.” Boys are given practical demonstrations and practice in resuscitation, bandaging, applying tourniquets and splints, lifting and carrying of wounded, improvising of stretchers and raising them over fences and other obstacles. This work naturally involves one in a more or less serious study of anatomy, physiology, and hygiene.

Perhaps many other subjects will lend themselves to this playground treatment, but nothing should be attempted which cannot be done in the playground way; for if there is ever any bridging of the chasm which separates the methods of the playground and the schoolroom, the first, last, and most of the intervening steps should be taken by the school-room.

THE ENERGIZING OF PLAY.

By W. S. FRANKLIN, Lehigh University, S. Bethlehem, Pa.

STRENUOUS PLAY LEADS TO STRENUOUS WORK-------PLAY BALL.

Scarcely more than a generation ago every American boy came under the spell of hunting and fishing; and there is no more powerful incentive to laborious days, nor any anodyne so potent for bodily discomfort and hardship! A hunting and fishing boyhood! Such has been the chief source of human energy in this lazy world of ours, the chief basis of life-long habit of persistent and strenuous effort; and the problem of educational play is to a great extent the problem

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 645 —

of finding an effective substitute for the lure of the wild for stimulating young people to intense activity.

The lure of the wild! Alas it is but a poet’s fancy in this tame world of ours. But our boys remain as a perennial race of Wild Indians however tame the world may come to be; and fortunately they are not dependent upon completely truthful externals. The genuine Wild Indian becomes a sorry spectacle, even if he does not* sicken and die, when he is deprived of his millions of square miles of wild buffalo country; but our boy Bill cannot have such an out-of-doors, never again as long as the earth shall last. Indeed he has no need of such a thing, for if his fancy is stirred by ardent playmates he will chase an imaginary stag around a vacant lot all day if only there is a mixture of earth and sky and greenery to set off his make believe—and eat mush and milk when the day is done!

Indeed youngsters must hunt in packs, as Whitcomb Riley tells in his Hunting Song of the American Bander-log, and the gang idea contains the ultimate solution of what would otherwise be an impossible problem, namely, to find an effective substitute for the lure of the wild for the energizing of the intensely active kind of play, the kind of play that trains for anolication, the kind that approaches hunting and fishing or tribal warfare or the settling of a blood-feud in its persistent, single-minded and strenuous activity.

Many grown-ups seem to think that mere permission is now a sufficient basis for play, as it was in pioneer and rural days. Indeed this is largely true for very small children who can sit in the sunshine and make mud pies or dig holes in a bed of sand; but with older boys it is different. They may indeed fight or steal, or engage in the worst varieties of gang activity, or sit by a fire in a back alley talking sex like grown up sordidly imaginative Hottentots in Darkest Africa; but strenuous play requires suggestive example and organization, as with our Boy Scouts; and it depends to a very great extent upon competitive athletics. A dozen large ball fields and two or three good-sized swimming pools are, next to his food, the most important thing for our boy Bill; and they would do more to make him into an energetic and industrious man than all the rest of his school work put together.

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 646 —

BRAIN AND BRAWN—CO-ORDINATE IDEALS.

By F. L. KLEEBERGER, Asst. Professor of Physical Training, University of

California.

The statements attributed to Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler of Columbia University and the subsequent newspaper comment thereon are of singular interest from the standpoint of physical education. The statement that a sound body, determined through a physical test of muscle, heart, and lungs, comparable to the test for military duty, should be required for entrance to University life, is extreme, taken in its narrow sense, but, taken in the light of the physical education of the future, it embodies a great truth.

That large numbers of children are physically defective as a result of inheritance, accident, and poor environment is undoubted. Modern hygiene and public health campaigns, combined with modern sociology, are accomplishing more each year to offset or preclude the above evils. Medical inspection in the schools is discovering and correcting, at an early age, the defects of eye, ear, nose, and throat, and guarding against the menace of childhood infection and neglect. The permanent ills resulting from ignorant care during early childhood are being fought through campaigns of public education by baby clinics, as in the Baby Hospital of the city of Oakland. Each year, in communities alive to modern thought, a larger and larger proportion of the youngsters are sent forward with increased constitutional potentiality, as it were, with greater chances to “arive” physically, mentally, and morally.

It must be the aim of physical education to supplement the above potentiality by a kinetic force,—by bringing into the child's daily life activities offsetting the deformative effects of school furniture, poorly adjusted clothing, and unreasonably long hours of confinement, as well as by augmenting the child's constitutional vigor through natural stimulus to physiological processes. This will be accomplished in time by educating the public to the importance of rooting out these unnatural sources of deformity and ill-health and to the realization that play, being the normal life of the child, is absolutely necessary, in large doses, to his mental, moral, and physical development. That this is actually coming to pass in enlightened communities is beyond doubt, as is also demonstrated in the city of Oakland—emphasizing, as it does, its playground development in conjunction with specific physical training in the public schools. Scientific research is constantly giving us new proof that there are few if any diseases or defects that cannot be overcome, corrected or at least improved, if taken early and treated scientifically. Thus the millennium of education would see a type of procedure bringing practically all individuals of great mental potentiality to the Uni-
— 647 •—

versity age, prepared to pass a reasonable physical as well as mental test.

That bodily vigor has a great influence over mental efficiency, science has established beyond a doubt. True, history affords examples of many powerful and highly productive intellects housed in weak or degenerate bodies, but these are by no means the rule. It is always fallacious to draw conclusions from individuals rather than averages. Results derived from experience in the field of physical education lead us to believe that many notable intellects, of the above class, would have added a vast deal more to the pleasure and profit of civilization, had their lives been lengthened and vitalized by reasonable attention to their physical needs. It is no more legitimate to claim that mental ability is directly proportional to bodily health or vigor, than to claim that mental power is inversely t>ro-portional to physical strength. Ill health or abnormal mental states, may even prove a stimulus to mental activity of a very high order, in the exceptional individual; but we should not therefore advocate duplication of these abnormal conditions, through unhygienic living and drugging of the nervous system among students. Yet this scorning of the physical being is exactly what numerous would-be geniuses are doing. Habitual cigarette smoking, late hours and dissipation were at one time the correct “pose” of college life. It is to be regretted that this “pose” has not entirely died out. On the other hand, it is a source of significant comment that each year the average student is less and less influenced by “pose.”

One writer cites Mr. Roosevelt as one who would have lost a university training under the regulations Dr. Butler would impose; yet there is no man living, who exemplifies more perfectly the appreciation of physical vigor for a strenuous and efficient mental life. Only by systematic attention to his physical development and wellbeing has he made possible his extremely strenuous life.

Not alone would greater attention to the physical in our lower school education tend to develop better citizens, phvsically and mentally, but to an even greater extent, would it when nronerly conducted mould the moral development of coming generations. In no phase of life is there a more fundamental and ever-ready approach to the moral life of the child than in his play. If we want fair-minded, generous, and clean-lived men, we must not continue to neglect this greatest opportunity for moral education.

There still remains too much of the old asceticism, especially among educators and “scholars.” It is truly encouraging that one of the greatest exponents of modem education should see fit to strike so sharp a blow at this fundamental weakness in our educational procedure. Though his blow may, in the narrow sense, seem extremely vigorous, in the large sense it certainly is in the right direc-

Digitized by L,ooQle
—- 648 —

tion. If Dr. Butler advocates an exacting physical test for entrance to universities, which undoubtedly would prove too drastic under present conditions, he doubtless intends it to impress the public mind with the absolute necessity of giving sane and systematic attention to physical education from babyhood up, that such a test sometime in the future may follow as a matter of course. Thus we would attain the ideals of ancient Greek education and seek for physical, as well as mental and moral perfection.

ETHICS IN ATHLETICS OF THE ANCIENT GREEKS.

AS TAKEN FROM HOMER’S ILIAD AND THE AENEID OF VIRGIL. By G. WELLINGTON, B. P. E.f Lawrenceville. N. J.

The morals of Greek athletics in the time of Homer and Virgil were in some respects similar to modern ideals, but they still showed a weakness which is explained by the child-like zest with which the athletes entered the games. They acted more like a group of healthy children would today. They dashed into the games headlong, and if a mischance defrauded them of the first honors they would protest in much the manner expected of a modern school-bov whose team is always losing because the umpire “skins.” The gods, however, were to blame for their defeats instead of the officials. Ajax explains his defeat in the foot-race thus: “Accursed fate! the conquest I forego; A mortal I, a goddess was my foe; She urged her favorite on the rapid way, And Pallas, not Ulysse, won the day.”

The human instinct for competition was a strong factor in the Greeks, and the ways and means by which a rival was defeated were not always good ethics to our way of thinking today. As old Nestor cautioned his son: “It is not strength but art, obtains the prize,” so often did the trickster win out over merit.

The jockeying of an opponent in a chariot race was not looked upon with disfavor, rather as being a clever trick. In the race which Homer describes so vividly, young Nestor jockeys Atrides out of second place by cutting in on a narrow part of the course where only one could pass at a time. Instances of the childishness of the competitors was shown in both the spirit with which Atrides took his loss of second place, and by Eumelus who was thrown out of the race by a broken chariot. Atrides complains to the judge, who hears both sides and the trouble is settled by Nestor apologizing for his hasty act. He retains the prize though, showing that the rules were not against jockeying. Eumelus acted like a big cry-babv when he was thrown to the ground and his chances of winning hopeless. As Homer says, “Grief stops his voice, a torrent drowns his eyes.” A somewhat similar instance is recorded in the Aeneid when in the boat

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 649—

race Gyas sees himself outstripped by his rival Cloanthus, “Grief flashed to flame in Gyas* soul: Tears from his eves were seen to roll. ’ A football hero would receive scant sympathy if he burst into tea s every time he met defeat.

Skill and art in sports was looked upon with as much favor as strength. The sight of a boxer striking an opponent until he was covered with blood was scarcely noticed, it was the form and tactics which he used which interested. Brutality was accepted as a matter of course. “Now for the prompt collected mind, stout heart, and watchful eyewere the words Aeneid used in summoning the boxers. The Greeks were merciful only when it came to the point where a few more blows would kill a man, then they would shout for the fight to cease.

In order that a Greek athlete be eligible for public competitions it was necessary for him to be a pure blooded Greek, of good moral character, and he must train faithfully for a stated length period to the games. Failure to do this or the discovery after the games that he had not carried out his training properly was looked upon in the light of perjury and was an everlasting disgrace. These rules were certainly commendable and even at this late day we can see there are ethics in the Greek games which it would be well for us to copy.

It is interesting to note the prizes which were given and especially interesting is the fact that every competitor, whether a winner or no, was awarded a prize for taking part. “Garlands of luxuriant green” and “sprays of palm” were given the first three men in each event, besides “purple robes of state, gold and silver, of talent weight.” It was customary to give gifts of arms, wine, iron caldrons, bowls wrought in silver and gold, horses, bulls, belts of gold, and when Cloanthus won the boat race he was given wreaths of bay, three bulls, wine “and to his vessel bear a silver talent, for its share.”

This, we must not forget, was in the days before proffessional-ism, and the value of the prizes were as nothing to the honor of winning. It was the wreath of olive or the spray of palm which was worshipped by the athlete. Here again the old Greek rules and ethics may be praised and it might be well to emulate some of the things they teach us and strive to improve our own ethics in athletics.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 650 —

AN ENGLISH GIRL’S ATHLETIC CAREER:*

By MARGERY RAWLINGS of Reading, England.

It is with pleasure that I take this opportunity to give you a glimpse of an English girl's physical activities through her school, college, and after college days. The school which I shall so constantly refer to is typical of our large Friends’ Co-Educational boarding schools. In nearly all cases these schools are situated in the midst of beautiful country, which means a freer, simpler and more natural life than the average child has in these days. In these schools the physical education of the child receives just as much attention as any other part of the school curriculum.

From the time the normal child enters boarding school at the age of ten until the time she leaves at about the age of seventeen or eighteen years she is putting forth every bit of energy and enthusiasm to reach the highest point in all her physical activities. Although I am speaking with the experience of co-educational institutions, I am only speaking of the girl’s point of view, because to judge from a glance through the American Review, it would seem that girls had no athletic career whatever! And so it is with especial interest that I tell a little of the tremendous enthusiasm with which English girls and women "go in” for physical training in exactly the same way as boys and men.

In America there seems to be much discussion as to the advisability of competition in athletics for girls. There is much to be said for both sides, but personally I cannot imagine athletics without the competitive side, probably because I believe in England we take it as a matter of course, for we have combined it with athletics for so many years. And I really think we play for the sport, and of course if we win, all the better! I suppose we all agree that physical training can do more for development of character than anything else. And so to start with the most important thing is to get the right idea of competition into the child’s mind, if it is not naturally there. In the widest sense of the word competition is only a means to an end, the end of a fuller physical development, which goes hand in hand with a better understanding of one’s fellow men. And surely such an understanding develops to a marked degree the self-control, perseverance, loyalty, enthusiasm and alertness which we associate with our highest ideal of womanhood. And how often as we dash to and fro on the field do we almost feel these powers being controlled and developed.

A girl enters our Friends’ School, situated in the heart of the

* Elaboration of an address before the Philadelphia Physical Education Society, March, 1915.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 651 —

Mendip Hills, at the beginning of a school year. Though timid she finds herself immediately thrown into the enthusiasm of winter athletics. At first she is almost afraid of herself, as it were, and does not show her full value, but working among others of her own age, she soon “lets loose,” and so finds that she can climb the ropes in the gymnasium, walk the boom and jump the horse with great ease. Each day a period of about forty minutes is given up to gymnasium work for every class, and unless a girl is physically unfit this is made compulsory. Besides this, every girl has to be out of doors from 8 A. M. until 8145 A. M. on the large asphalt playground, playing hockey, tennis, basket ball, rounders, roller skating, or in some way on the move. When it is cold enough water is poured down the slanting part of the playground, and most wonderful sliding is enjoyed. At such times an extra period from a lesson is given up to this exercise. Besides the two large asphalt playgrounds, there is one enormous playing field,’ which is used for Toth boys and girls. It is large enough for about three hockey grounds and three foot ball grounds, at any rate; leaving the first eleven cricket pitch always wired in for the summer, besides leaving plenty of room for the running tracks. At least two afternoons a week, from two until four o’clock, are known as “compulsory games,” everyone has to play. When it is a very wet day or the ground, extremely so (the latter we do not often consider to be the case, as in England we are used to mud) boys and girls together, clad in foot ball togs and gymnasium suits go for a cross-country run or a paper chase. Running helter skelter over the country, wading streams, jumping hedges, all self-consciousness is lost, and one experiences an intense physical enjoyment, and a feeling of perfect fitness, often new to the individual, which seems to flood one with a wonderful sense of power and enthusiasm, and gives one a fresh outlook on life.

About twice a term there is an “all-day run,” and often twenty miles are accomplished without realizing it. Of course there is tremendous competition to get into the hockey teams, 1st, 2nd and 3rd elevens, which means that the smallest child is playing her hardest from the beginning of her career. To each team there is captain and vice-captain, chosen by the said teams. These teams all have outside matches against other schools and clubs, besides the many class matches and tournaments played within the school. This training and competition develops the feeling of esprit de cropes to a fuller extent, and a girl learns the meaning of real team work, which is such a splendid preparation for life’s work. The very fact of willingness to work under a captain, chosen entirely for her powers and knowledge in the special game is a great gain. This must especially appeal to you in America, who take persons for what they are, and not for what they possess. And in these days when women are working side by side with men, for great causes and high aims,
— G52 —

how essential that they should be able to take their places, naturally and adequately; and certainly athletics give one the chance to develop this faculty when young.

Hockey is our chief game, and is played from September until Easter time, wet or fine; deep snow seems to be the only thing which really prevents this, and that comes but seldom. In the spring term besides hockey, gymnasium and swimming, weeks are given up to training and practicing for “sports day,” which comes off at Easter time, at the old scholar’s reunion. We girls go in for them in exactly the same way as the boys, with hurdle races, 440-yd, 220-yd. and 100-yd. races, long jump, high jump, placing the weight and so on, learning much from the boys with working on the same field. The “heats” are run about two weeks before the actual sports day, when the worst competitors are knocked out. Of course, for all races we are started with a pistol shot, which to beginners in these things is almost alarming at first! The Junior and Senior events are taken separately. For each event are awarded points and prizes; first, second and third, and all points are added up to find who is Junior and Senior Champion. To both are presented a shield or a cup, which they hold for one year and on which their names are engraved.

In our Friends’ Schools we have great excitement, finding out which of our schools stands highest in athletic records.

In the summer term, gymnasium, swimming, cricket and tennis are the chief athletic items. Tennis tournaments are played a great deal, and there are certain grades of courts; to play upon these one has to show a certain amount of skill, to come up to the required standard. The first grass court players, at the end of the term, have tournaments in singles, to find out who is tennis champion of the school. The successful player is then presented with a new racquet with her name plate upon it. In tennis and all games the faculty often get up teams to play the pupils, which causes great enthusiasm. I believe as a whole tennis is a far more popular game than cricket. But on “compulsory afternoons” in the summer, cricket must be played. Swimming sports are taken too at the end of the term; here asrain prizes are given to winners in both Junior and Senior events. In all our Friends’ boarding schools we have perfectly splendid tiled swimming baths, fitted up with diving boards, water shoots, and all the latest appliances.

Upon leaving school a keen athlete at once joins her “old scholars” team, and goes around playing other alumnae teams, her old school and others besides. At college she again finds herself in the thick of athletics, with her tennis four and hockey eleven to make. Then come rowing, punting and canoeing, all of which mean coming in constant contact with other colleges, schools and clubs. For the
— 653-

elevens there are often several matches a week, and if you want to keep your place in the first team it means regularity and punctuality, as there are many putting forth all energy to take your place. Bv showing especial skill in your team you are presented with your “colors” by the captain and committee. So by the time a girl leaves college she has learned what will be of life-long value to her, not only the faculty of working along by the side of others toward the same end, but the most important thing of all, to be a good loser, admiring the superior skill of the successful team and discovering the alterable mistakes in your onw. And to the winners must come that special gift of courtesy toward the vanquished and an appreciation of their pluck in losing a game. As the grand old school song puts it:

“Strife without anger

Art without malice.”

After college there is still plenty of chance for a girl to keep up her athletics. Every village and town has tennis, golf and hockey clubs, and a good sportswoman has no difficulty in entering any of them. Here again she has several matches a week against other clubs, colleges and schools. In many instances she comes in contact with opponents of many years ago; the very fact of meeting her friends year after year in this way, adds greatly to the joy, and would not come to pass if it were not for the competitive side of games. Then to get chosen to play for her county team she must belong to a club which is recognized as a sufficiently good one to be affiliated with the county clubs. There are always numbers trying for a county team, and after trial games at which the selection committee are watching to choose the players, she has to put forth every energy to keep her position in the team with so many waiting to supplant her. Of late years eight different counties have met down by the sea, and for a week the keenest kind of contest goes on, as the higher the stakes become, the keener the competition. With great joy players find themselves running against those they ran beside at school, or college, besides meeting old opponents too. The “artful dodger” still keeps up her old tricks whereby she got this name. The enthusiasm of the spectators at these tournaments is as great as at your base ball games, and in proportion to the size of our little country, the numbers of onlookers are as large. We have hundreds waiting for hours, to see the girls' big hockey marches. Besides the excitement of the game, a girls' hockey match is really a very pretty sight, and quite impressive, not a wt>rd spoken (excepting an occasional necessary one from the captain) every girl in dead earnest, and incapable of attending to anything but the game. Every player on each team is clad alike, in a trim very short skirt in some bright color with usually a white shirt and tie to match her skirt. And

Digitized by CjOOQle
— G54 —

when a scarlet skirted team is playing an emerald green or purple team, there is no difficulty in distinguishing the sides.

At the time of the county hockey tournaments competition does not end with the out-of-door matches, for in the evening, the different teams compete in all kinds of indoor games. Of course from the county teams are picked the teams to represent the north and south of England, and then for the “All England” team, which at present plays only twice against Scotland and Ireland. But when funds will allow it is hoped that England vs. U. S. A. will prove to be a thing to be enjoyed in reality, and not the mystical thing that it is now!

With all this training there is no limit to a girl's physical vitality. As a result of this her body is more fully developed, and her mind in the same proportion is more clear. She has become a “good mixer,” with a true sporting spirit. And those who do not reach the highest step in athletics, but have the love and enthusiasm for them, may be encouraged by Milton's words:

“They also serve who only stand and wait.”

But it seems to me that a true sporting spirit is really the goal of all these years of training. To me the best expression of that spirit is to be found in the words of your own Abraham Lincoln:

“I am not bound to win,

But I am bound to be true,

I am not bound to succeed,

But I am bound to live up to the light I have.”

HISTORY OF THE NORMAL COLLEGE OF THE NORTH AMERICAN GYMNASTIC UNION.

By HEINR. METZNER.	Translated	by	Theo.	Stempel,	Jr.

(Continued.)

The Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union is the oldest American institution for the education of teachers of physical trining.

The Normal School of the North American Gymnastic Union was reorganized in 1866. Prior to 1875, the school was a traveling institute of gymnastics, whose earliest courses were completed in the city of New York. The institute was then transfered to Chicago. In October, 1871, the great fire in Chicago ended the existence of the institute in that city, and in 1872 the school was reopened in the city of New York.

From 1875 to 1888, Milwaukee was the seat of the Normal School. From 1889 to 1891, the school temporarily made its home

Digitized by Google
—- G55 —

in the city of Indianapolis. At the end of this transitional period, the North American Gymnastic Union had completed a gymnasium building adjoining the new home of the National German-American Teachers' Seminary and the German and English Academy at Milwaukee. The three schools were united in a way that enabled each to preserve its individuality, and at the same time to utilize the teaching facilities of the other two schools.

In 1902, the scope of the work of the Normal School was materially extended. From 1902 to 1907, the following courses were given: Course A. A special course for the students of the National German-American Teachers' Seminary. — Course B. A one-year course for male students of the Normal School who had attained the knowledge of German required for admission to the first-year class of the Teachers’ Seminary, but did not meet the entrance requirements for course C.—Course C. 1902-1904: A one year course for students of the Normal School who had attained the knowledge of English required for admission to the second- year class of the Teachers’ Seminary. 1904-1907: A one-year course for students of the Normal School who held an American high school diploma or had passed equivalent entrance examinations. — Course D. A one-year course for students of the Normal School who, in addition to the qualifications prescribed for course C, had a thorough knowledge of the German language.

At a joint meeting of the governing boards of the three schools, held September 29, 1906, it was agreed that after August 31, 1907, the National German-American Teachers’ Seminary and the Normal School of Gymnastics should be conducted as separate and independent institutions. At the same meeting, the gymnasium building was sold to the German and English Academy.

In January, 1907, the National Executive Committee of the North American Gymnastic Union adopted resolutions to the effect that after August 31, 1907, the Normal School of Gymnastics be conducted in the city of Indianapolis under the name of “The Normal College of the North American Gymnastic Union”; that one-year, two-year, and four-year college courses be offered prospective teachers of physical training who, prior to matriculation, completed the four-year course of an approved American high school, or who pass equivalent entrance examinations in high school subjects, including at least three years of high school English ; and that in addition to physical training and practice in teaching, the work of each college year includes courses in letters and science equivalent to one year’s work as counted by universities toward the baccalaureate degree.

In March, 1907, the Normal College was incorporated under the laws of the State of Indiana as an institution of learning empowered to confer academic titles and degrees. In June, 1910, the

Digitized by

Google
— 056 —

College was accredited in Class A by the Indiana State Board of Education, which exempts applicants for positions in the Public and High Schools of Indiana from examination.

The Normal College was opened in the German House at Indianapolis on September 23, 1907.

CONCLUSION.

It is not presumptuous to remark that in the sixty-five years of its existence the Turnerbund has been an important factor in the cultural development of this republic. From the very inception of their organization, in whatever principles they have advocated, it has always been the serious aim of the Turners to contribute their share toward the fruitful development of the countrv. To be sure, these men may not always have been on the right track. In their eager desire for reform they may have overshot the mark at times, but every unprejudiced historian will agree that as citizens of this country they have been honest and unselfish in their activities. They were never diverted from their goal by harsh criticism nor by the superior smiles of those who claimed to know better, for they have kept in mind the spirit of Goethe's words:

“Wcr fertig ist, dem ist nichts recht zu machen;

Ein Werdender zvird immer dankbar sein!”

“A mind, once formed, is never suited after.

One, yet in growth, will ever grateful be.”

Digitized by C^ooQle
PHYSIOLOGY AND HYGIENE

By D. M. P. KROGH, M. D.y Cleveland 8choolf Newark, N. J.

Rural School Sanitation—In 19n, the National Council of Education of the National Education Association appointed a committee on health problems in education. At the same time, the Council on Health and Public Instruction of the American Medical Association appointed a committee to co-operate with the National Education Association on this subject. These two committees, acting as a joint committee, have for three years been working in this field. The significance and practical value of the co-ordination of the efforts of the teaching and medical professions of the United States is apparent. The possibilities of such co-operation can hardly be overestimated. After careful consideration, the committee was unanimous in feeling that possibly the most important and certainly the most neglected field in school hygiene was the problem of rural school sanitation. When an effort was made to formulate plans and remedies, however, it was soon realized that although every one was agreed as to the paramount importance of this field, there was little, if any, definite information available regarding actual conditions. It seemed necessary, therefore, that before any remedies were proposed or even discussed, a reasonable amount of data should be secured. Fortunately these conclusions were completely in harmony with the views and policies of the United States Bureau of Education. As Hon. P. P. Claxton, the commissioner, was a member of the joint committee, it was possible to develop a plan for the study of rural school conditions in which all the forces interested could unite. During the spring of 1913, a field secretary employed by the joint committee made a careful statistical and photographic survey of about one hundred rural schools in four eastern states. At the same time, Prof. F. B. Dresslar of the PeabodyCollege for Teachers of Nash-' ville, Tenn. special agent of the federal Bureau of Education was collecting a large mass of material on country schoolhouses in different states. Additional material was secured from various sources, principally through state boards of health. All of this information has been carefully collated, with the result that Bulletin 12 of the United States Bureau of Education, entitled “Rural Schoolhouses and Grounds,” contains in its two hundred pages probably more information on this subject than has ever before been collected. For the details of this survey, the large mass of illuminating facts brought out the general conclusions drawn therefrom, the reader is referred to the report itself, which can be secured from the Bureau of Education at Washington. As a result of this studv. the joint committee

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 058

of the National Education Association and the American Medical Association has prepared a statement of minimum requirements for rural schools, being a summary of those conditions of location, construction and equipment which are the very least that should be tolerated in rural schools. This pamphlet can be secured from the Bureau of Education at Washington, from Dr. Thomas D. Wood of Columbia University, New York City, or from the American Medical Association. For the first time in the history of education and sanitation in this country, a reasonably comprehensive collection of facts regarding the sanitary condition of rural schools has been made and a standard of minimum sanitary requirements formulated. Parents, teachers, school boards, health officers and the general pub-, lie have now been given a standard easily applied and within the physical and economic possibilities of any community. Adoption of this standard is the very least that can with decency and fairness to its children be expected of any community. As this standard becomes recognized through the distribution of these pamphlets, it will in a few years be possible to estimate the relative degree of development in any state by the condition of its rural schools. There are many other questions to be considered in solving the health problems in education, but persons interested in the sanitation of rural schools may feel gratified at the substantial and definite progress which has been made through the joint committee in the last three years in this field.—Current Comment, Journal A. Med. A., Jan. 23, 1915.

Unappreciated Features of the School launch Movement.— School lunches have become established in a large number of our cities, and a defense for their institution is now unnecessary. The maintenance of such a service is no longer defended solely on the basis of the needs of the poorer classes, but is encouraged in ways to avert the criticism that the school lunch leads to pauperizing and to the neglect of maternal responsibility in the home. The unquestioned benefits of a well-chosen warm lunch, usually supplied at the cost of the materials and service, have impressed both teachers and parents so that even the well-to-do commend and approve this latest innovation in the routine of the school day. As a rule, the school lunch room provides better food than the street vender. In most places the foods are chosen by persons trained in the field of dietetics, and the variety of dietary articles offered at one cent a portion is frequently quite impressive. It includes soups, salads, sandwiches, fruits, puddings and other dishes. The New York School Lunch Committee, in co-operation with the Bureau of Welfare of School Children of the Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor, for example, has maintained a service available to over 24,000 chil-

Digitized by

Google
— 659 —

dren in seventeen public schools situated in districts in which the need of such service is pressing. The registration has run as high as 2,353. In addition to this noon warm lunch service, the committee has operated a special 3-cent warm lunch of milk and crackers at 10 a. m. for anemic, ungraded and crippled classes. It begins to appear that the school lunch movement has engendered certain features which promise to contribute to the general welfare in a direction almost as important as that of the proper nourishment of the body. Educational and social possibilities, at first unforeseen, are being brought to notice. The children of the well-to-do parents and the children of the poor have learned “to sit quietly as one family, to talk pleasantly with each other, to eat their food properly; and many acts of courtesy and generosity have been encouraged.” The appeal which the school lunches have made has not infrequently been manifested by mothers who have had their interest in respect to special foods and dietary procedures aroused. Thus the school lunch scheme has fostered educational and social as well as economic purposes.—Current Comment, The Journ. A. M. A., Dec. 19, 1914.

One Minute Bio graphs.—No. 1. The Father of Preventive Medicine. The early history of our hero is veiled in myth and mystery. Born of a persecuted race, adopted as a foundling by a princely house, forced to flee the country for committing murder, the subject of this sketch exhibited marvelous insight and remarkable powers of administration and leadership. Although not a physician as we understand the term, and living long before the days of bacteriology, he yet was able to draft and enact a sanitary code whose guiding principles are still regarded as correct. In this code he originated an entirely new system of medicine, totally opposed to the prevailing plan. For the curative and therapeutic methods then universally followed, he substituted the more philosophic and wiser hygienic and preventive method. Moreover, in the regulations which he formulated, emphasis is laid on discharges from the body (blood, pus, mucus) as vehicles of disease, and on personal cleanliness and isolation as the chief means of preventing infection. A hygienist whose influence has made itself felt throughout the world and the father of preventige medicine.—we salute Moses, maker of sanitary laws.— Weekly Bull. Dept, of Health, City of New York.

Compulsory Vaccination Compatible with Compulsory School Attendance. (People vs. Ekerold (N. Y.), 105 N. E. R. 670) — The Court of Appeals of New York affirms a judgment holding a father liable for the penalty provided by the education law for a failure to cause his son to attend on instruction notwithstanding the father made the defense that he did not believe in vaccination and the school authorities had refused to allow the child to attend school with-

Digitized by

Google
-— 600 —

out being vaccinated. The court says that the question which within certain limits was presented here was whether the statute and the by-laws of the board of education in New York City adopted under and in' accordance with the statute requiring vaccination as a condition of attending the public schools, were under ordinary conditions so unusual or oppressive that a parent should be allowed to make his unwillingness to comply therewith a basis for not sending his children to school, for that was what the position of the defendant amounted to. The court does not think that they were of such a character. Under this court’s decision in Re Viemeister, 179 N. Y. 235, it must assume that the law requiring vaccination of children in the public schools is a proper one. The statute requiring vaccination was adopted in its present form in 1893. The provision requiring attendance on instruction was first adopted in 1894. It does not seem reasonable to assume that it was the legislative intention in passing both of these statutes relating to attendance at school to provide and have it come to pass that the unwillingness to comply with the one requiring vaccination might be turned into a good excuse for disobeying the other one concerning attendance. — The Journ. A. M. A., Dec. 26, 1914.

Evidence and the Scientific Mind.—The unscientific mind possesses but two compartments, one for truth and one for error. .	.

The scientist, however, recognizes no such compartments, for absolute truth and absolute error are unknown to him. After weighing the evidence furnished, his decisions consist only in selecting the degree of his confidence that is merited by that evidence.—G. W. Stewart, Science.

Health Day in Schools.—Greenville County, S. C., designated Friday, December 11, as a day for the study of public health in the schools. The day was devoted to cleaning and making sanitary the schools and their surroundings, reading compositions by the children on public health topics and talks by physicians on public and personal hygiene.

BOOK REVIEW.

School Hygiene by Leo. Burgerstein, Ph. D., M. D.; 188 pages 5 by 7 inches; 43 illustrations. Published by Frederick A. Stokes Company, New York. Price $1.00 net.

Dr. Burgerstein of Vienna is undoubtedly the foremost school hygienist of Europe. This book is a translation of his little book on school hygiene. It treats in a clear, practical manner of: 1. The school-house, how to plan, light, heat and ventilate it—the class-room

Digitized by ^ooQle
— 601 —

and its equipment; II. The hygiene of instruction with special stress on the psychology of attention and fatigue; III. Instruction in hygiene; IV. School diseases and medical inspection; V. The hygiene of the teaching profession.

As Dr. Luther Gulick points out in his introduction Professor Burgerstein, recognized as an authority in Europe, is thoroughly informed on modern educational discoveries in America as well as in Europe and is keenly alive to our especial needs. In particular, he has studied the problems of the small country school. It is a book of supreme importance to every teacher and educator and to parents who see the need of better school conditions. The book is recommended to all teachers.

Eugenics: A selection of twelve lectures, delivered at different

universities by

Morton A. Aldrich, Pb. D., Professor of Economics and Sociology, Tulane University of Louisiana.

William Herbert Carruth, Ph. D., Vice-Chancellor of the University of Kansas.

Charles B. Davenport, Ph. D., Director, Department of Experimental Evolution, (Carnegie Institution of Washington), Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island.

Charles A. Ellwood, Ph. D., Professor of Sociology, University of Missouri.

Arthur Holmes, Ph. D., Dean of the General Faculty, The Pennsylvania State College.

W. H. Howell, M. D., Ph. D., Professor of Physiology, Johns Hopkins University.

Harvey Ernest Jordan, Ph. D., Professor of Histology and Embryology in.the University of Virginia.

Albert Galloway Keller, Ph. D., Professor of the Science of Society, Yale University.

Edward L. Thorndike, Ph. D., Professor of Educational Psychology, Teachers College, Columbia University.

Victor C. Vaughan, M. D., LL. D., Dean of the Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of Michigan, President Michigan State Board of Health.

Herbert John Webber, Ph. D., D. Agr., Professor of Plant Breeding, Cornell University.

Robert H. Wolcott, B. Sc., M. D., Professor of Zoology and Junior Dean of the College of Medicine, University of Nebraska.

With a foreword by Lewellys F. Barker, M. D., LL. D., Professor of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University.

The volume consists of 348 pages, 6 by 8>2 inches. Published by

Dodd, Mead and Company, New York. Price $2.00 net.

Digitized by 0.ooQle
— 662 —

Athletics in Theory and Practice, by Ernst Hjertberg; 280 pages 5 by 8 inches; over 70 illustrations. Published by G. P. Putnam’s Sons, New York. Price $1.25 net.

In this book the coach of the Swedish Olympic Team explains the methods of training employed by him. It deals with training diet, treatment of injuries, arrangements for meets, etc., etc. In Part II the different athletic events are taken up in detail and discussed in such manner as to be of value to any teacher.

Human Behavior, by Prof. Stephen Shelden Colvin and Prof. William Chandler Bagley; 336 pages, 5 bv 8 inches. Published by the Mac Millan Company, New York. Price $1.00 net.

The volume is a first book in psychology for teachers. It formulates psychological principles in terms of conduct or behavior and thus helps to explain to teachers—and parents—many of the acts of children. The book should be a great help to playground workers, as it is written in a simple, easily understood manner.

Manual of Play, by William Byron Forbush, Ph. D.; 353 pages 5 by 8 inches. Published by George W. Jacobs and Co., Philadelphia. Price $1.50 net.

The author has gathered a vast amount of play material and information of all kinds and hopes through this manual to revive the play spirit in the hearts of parents and so bring about a richer home life.

The Mental Health of the School Child, by J. E. Wallace Wallin, Ph. D., Professor of Clinical Psychology and Director of Psycho-Educational Clinic School of Education, University of Pittsburgh; 463 pages 5Yi by 8 inches. Published by Yale University Press, New Haven, Conn. Mailing price $2.00.

Dr. Wallin has made a careful and prolonged investigation of the Child Mind. His conclusions are based on Statistical Study. Realizing the significance of many facts brought to light by these investigations, he has set about to define the most effective means of correcting them. Th$ book contains tables which will be of the greatest service to all interested in the improvement of the conditions of children.

Official 1915 Rule and Year Book of the Amateur Athletic Federation of Cook County, Illinois; 149 pages 5 by 7 inches. Mailing price 15 cents. Address The Federation Press, 3760 North Harding Ave., Chicago, 111.

With the slogan “Everybody in the game for health anci personal efficiency, and not for Junk,” the Federation presents its 1915

Digitized by Google
— 663 —

Year Book in an enlarged form to all who desire to see how this great federation manages its work in Chicago. The book will be of great value to all teachers who have competitions in track and field events as well as in the standard games.

Care and Education of Crippled Children in the United States, by Edith Reeves, special agent, Department of Child-Helping, Russell Sage Foundation; 252 pages 6 by 9 inches. Published by Survey Associates, New York. Price, postpaid, $2.00.

With the broadening conception of the duties of the state we first had the special schools for the tubercular, for the backward, for the incorrigibles. Recently several cities opened schools for the.education of crippled children. This led to the demand for information of what others were doing; how they, were solving their problems, etc. These questions this book attempts to answer. It is a most interesting story relating to the crippled children of the United States. This book describes 37 hospitals, convalescent homes, and asylums built for the cure, care, training and education of crippled children; it describes also the work of 27 hospitals and institutions which do a combined work for crippled children with other classes of people.

The book is a revelation of the courage and endurance, the cheerfulness and hopefulness, and the surprising accomplishments of these little people. It is a revelation also of the patience, devotion and self-sacrifice of the surgeons, nurses and teachers who minister to them.

The book contains no illustrations which display the life and the activities of these little patients, the hospitals and homes which have been provided for them, with building plans of some important institutions.

Physical Education Complete, for Schools and Playgrounds, by Lavinia H. Kaull; 272 pages 6]/2 by gl/2 inches. Published by the News Publishing Company, Sacramento, Cal. Price, postpaid, $2.15.

In this book the author, who is director of physical education in the elementary schools of Sacramento, Cal., 'presents to teachers a concise manual embodying free exercises for the eight school grades, also games, stories and folk dances. Several additional chapters are devoted to a history of the playground movement, to first aid and to the physical care of children. Many illustrations will aid the uninitiated to understand the gymnastic and play positions spoken of.

Manual of Physical Training, Games and Mass Competitions, by Charles H. Keene, M. D., Director Hygiene, Minneapolis Public

Digitized by LaOOQle
— 064 —

Schools. Published by World Book Company, Yonkers on Hudson, New York. 124 pages 5^ by 8 inches. Mailing price 72 cents.

Part I, after a short introduction, contains lessons for grades 1 to 8. Part II contains the description of 67 of the more valuable school games suitable for the eight grades, while the last few pages are devoted to an explanation of how to arrange mass competitions in the various track and field events.

Ten Sex Talks to Boys, 10 years and older, by the same author and publishers; 187 pages; 12 illustrations. Price $1.00 net.

Of this book Ernest Thompson Seton says: “I do not know of any book better fitted to serve this purpose and aid the anxious but embarrassed father to do his duty by his boy than the present ‘Sex Talks.' As soon as the child can read—and with most boys that means about eight—it is well to discuss the simple facts of animal reproduction or read parts of this book to him. A little later put the book in his hands and tell him that it contains things he ought to know. He will absorb the information exactly in proportion to his needs, and if the father .has maintained the right friendly relations with his son, the child will come and tell him when street acquaintances or unscrupulous hired help have given him ideas that are unclean, or likely to lead in the wrong direction."

JUST PUBLISHED

Sixty-five

FOLK DANCES FINLAND

Price: Paper $1.50 net Cloth $2.50 net

Seventy-three

FOLK DANCES DENMARK

Price: Paper $150 net Cloth $2.50 net

ZBlizaHoetlz BuLzclzezzaJ.

HE appreciation of folk dancing in America, the general recognition of its value in the scheme of education, received its greatest impetus through the activities and teaching of Elizabeth Burch-enal. Her latest contribution to the store of accessible folk dances is comprised in the two volumes here announced. As collected, edited and described, they are authentic records of the native dances of Finland and Denmark.	::::::::

Circular giving contents of each book and descriptive list of dances music collections FREE upon request

G. SCHIRMER Inc