MIND AND BODY

Vol. 38	DECEMBER, 1931	No.	400

PUBLISHED BY MIND AND BODY PUBLISHING CO., NEW ULM, MINN.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE WM. E. DAY, Dir. Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lake City EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianarolis, Ind.

GROVER W. MUELLER, Philadelphia, Pa.

CARL L. SCHRADER, Boston, Massachusetts.

WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Philadelphia, Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 17th and Pine, Grant Building, Philadelphia, Pa. Subscription payments should be made to Mind and Body, New Ulm, Minnesota.

Entered as second-class matter Vctober 14, 1916, at the poslcffice at hew Ulm, Minnesota, under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Original articles and reprint^

< > — ■ — ♦

GYMNASTICS THE PRIMAL BASE OF ALL PHYSICAL EDUCATION. EDUCATION AND ANATOMY COMPARED.

By Dr. A. DeMarneffe, Chief of the Physio-therapeutic Department of the Military Hospital, Brussels.

Physical Education. Words, and especially the ideas they represent, evolve with wonderful rapidity. If by the term “physical education” is implied the education of the physique in contrast to the education of the intellect and of morals (conduct), then the term is to-day no longer exact, for we know that a scientific system of gymnastics has a considerable influence on mental development, and on thfe brain as an organ of thought. Psychiatrists, in their treatment of their abnormal and backward patients, work entirely by means of physical movements. Gymnastics, by its exercises of application principally, has an incontestable action on the development of the moral faculty. Games and sports by their specially psycho-dynaihic action, reinforce the moral action.

If physical education signifies education by physical means, its extension, in view of the new discoveries in Physics and Phy-sicobiology becomes so vast as to no longer present to our minds

Digitized by LjOOQie
670

any precise limits. But we now have no other word to replace it: and I feel that it is always dangerous to revolutionise an established terminology. In this article, we will under the term of Physical Education consider gymnastics, games and sports, and we will define it broadly, thus: Physical Education is the science which utilises the normal and habitual muscular dynamics of the living body to develop and perfect the human being from the physical, intellectual and moral points of view.

In my ^‘Prec's de Physiologie et d’Hygiene Appliquees a Education Physique” I stated: “Physical Education, properly so-called, is a science which, based on the whole study of biology, aims at the perfecting of the human body and of its greatest adaptation to its possible powers.”. . .“This science requires a knowledge Of human anatomy, physiology and psychology, thus revealing the entire dynamics of the individual; it should also comprise a knowledge of sociology, for map’s social relations and his progressive transformations in the evolution of societies or groups.” And still further:”. . .this science will make possible man’s fullest adaptation to his environment.”

It is evident that we are not yet perfectly adapted to our environment and to our actual conditions of life. But amongst all our adaptations we will here only consider one such adaptation which strikes because of its lack of completion. We are not yet fully adapted to our biped position. Anatomical and physiological proofs of this abound. We will enumerate only a few. And to begin with, in conformity with Haeckel’s profound saying, '‘Ontology is the resume of philogeny,” we note that the child passes to the upright position by way of the quadruped stage. This tendency to return to the position, moreover, is often noticeable in certain special conditions of old age, and of those suffering from deranged minds.

But be assured, I am not going to counsel a retrogression to that stage. I am not going to recall all the advantages of the biped position, thanks to which our head and our organs of sense have raised themselves and now function in conditions here advantageous to the human being. This stage has liberated the forelimbs from their function of support, and it is due to this that our brain as the organ of thought has been enabled to develop so rapidly and to place us at the top of the animal kingdom. Besides, it is, alas! the sole means by which Man can claim to be “the lord of creation.”

The disadvantages and inconveniences of our lack of adaptation to the biped position still persist numerously. The equilibrium of the biped is evidently more difficult, and necessitates for the maintenance of its vertebral column with its twenty-four vertebrae in stability, the co-ordination of the contraction of from three to four hundred small vertebral muscles. A fatiguing muscular work to which we are already somewhat adapted owing to the intervention of the sympathetic nervous system wh.ch is less easily fatigued than the cerebro-spinal system.
671

Certain structures developed for the position of the quadruped still persist in the biped stage and impede the adaptation and sometimes the correct functioning of the organs. The intercostal veins, vertical in the quadruped, were furnished with valves. These valves persist uselessly in our horizontal intercostal veins. In revenge, the horizontal veins of the abdomen of the former (quadruped) have become vertebral with us and have not yet seen the need to develop valves. This has given rise to that difficult venous circulation of the abdomen. Moreover, all our circulatory hydrostatics are profoundly modified by our change of position. The positions in the body of the appendix and of the prostate gland are more advantageous for the quadruped, and become for us, by reason of their low and deep situation, the probable cause of all that special pathology of these organs.

In the quadruped the diaphragmatic, and even more so the costal, respiration is brought about by a hanging movement of the ribs requiring very little muscular effort. In the biped intercostal respiration requires the raising of the ribs by a specially developed muscular arrangement—a muscular arrangement sometimes accessory and unusual. A tiring and difficult task, but indispensible if we would achieve the raising of the first ribs and ventilate the inactive and atrophied pulmonary apices, which are ready preys to pulmonary and other infections.

The vertebral column, in its dorsal and lumbar parts, can in the greater number of quadrupeds be compared to a vault or arch, with the vertebrae forming the corner stone, supported by the four limbs and as little mobile as is expedient. We have conserved this rigid, irrational dorsal curvature with these vertebrae in the form of comer stones with their unsupple, over-lapping spinous processes, and which it is most difficult to straighten and correct.

To this vertebral column are appended in the quadruped the organs and abdominal viscera, normally suspended and having no tendency to mutual obstruction or to displacement. The abdominal muscular belt is therefore of no very great consideration. A position at once stable, easy and economic. In the biped the vscera remain fixed to the column, but they are suspended obliquely, they have a tendency to descend, to obstruct one another, to compress those situated in the pelvic basin, and to easily impede the deep abdominal circulation (as in haemorrhoids, varicocele, etc.). If they are not firmly held in place by a powerful abdominal muscular belt, they are subject to displacements, the cause of divers troubles, mechanical, physiological nervous and psychological, which are the root of all that mental pathology of the depressed, the melancholics, the asthenics, the neurasthenics and the over-anxious persons, who are unbalanced and ungirthed in the abdomen.

Though more evolved than the anthropoid, we still have not managed to develop a sufficient extension of the thigh on the pelvic basin, or rather, to tip the basin sufficiently to bring its anterior border upwards. The famous Bertini’s ligament is not

Digitized by <^.ooQle
672

yet sufficiently lengthened, and concurrently our glutei have not yet acquired the needed dynamics. Hence the exaggerated lumbar lordosis, likewise the persistence of that sacro-lumbar angle, of that promonotory so unfavourable to the act of parturition, making this function longer and more painful than in the case of all other females of the animal world. These are a few of the proofs which go to explain the general idea. Our adaptation to the biped position is not yet complete.

It is necessary, therefore, to consider what were our different segments in the quadruped, what was their function, and what their mechanism. We must then study the modifications which the biped position has wrought in these sections, their function and their mechanism. We ought then to envisage that which they should be to be well adapted, and search for the means to attain this end, i. e., study what perfections should be added to the mechanism of the segments, and seek out the muscular processes, the exercises useful to this end. Let us, then, briefly consider a few of our segments.

The Head. In the quadruped the head hangs from the cervical column and the occipital opening—the point of articulation of the two segments—is situated far to the back. In the biped, to hold the head in a position of equilibrium, the occipital opening should be found in front of the centre of gravity of the head. But it is still situated too far to the back, and the head has a tendency to fall forward which brings an indirect action on our organs of sense and on the statics and dynamics of the vertebral column. We ought to aim at maintaining the head in equilibrium and normally erect by contracting our pre-vertebral muscles, that is to say, by constantly drawing in the chin and stretching and straightening the cervical curve.

The Neck. We should correct the exaggerated (forward) convexity of the cervical column. This amendment has a favourable reaction in the dynamics of the inspiratory muscles which are inserted here and which raise the upper ribs. The various parts of the vertebral column might well be straight—I do not mean infallibly vertical, and I do not mean that they should be rigid. On the contrary, I think they should maintain a good articular mobility to intervene in the equilibrium, the position and the general dynamics of the human body.

The Dorsal Column. We should constantly struggle to supple and correct the dorsal curve, which is recognised by everyone, even by the sceptics, as being unhelpful to respiration.

The Thorax. It is unnecessary to insist on the importance of respiration, our primary function, and above all on the full development of the pulmonary apices, habitually inactive and atrophied in the new biped. A difficult, complex and tiresome task. We must not forget that respiration has a direct action on the functioning of the heart and of the circulation and also on the organs of the abdomen.
673

The Shoulder. Id our biped position the shoulder bears the arm and attaches it to the sternum by an articulation, and to the vertebral column by means of muscles. In order to avoid the weight of the arms pressing upon such delicate organs as the • thorax and the fan-like ribs, which must be very mobile, it is necessary to reinforce in a sharply defined way the dorsal muscular attachment of the shoulder, which is brought about by ceaseless and vigorous fixation of the shoulder blades downward-backward. This position allows of a better carriage of the head and a straightening of the cervical and dorsal vertebral curves.

The Arms. The arm in the quadruped is an organ of support—in the anthropoid it becomes more mobile, but still has the head of the humerus flattened. In man this humerus-head is spherical and should allow of and conserve a much greater mobility of the arm. Let us insist on this fact that our arms are not organs of force. The leverage is unfavourable. They are organs of range, and should preserve their maximum articular range, their suppleness, their muscular sense, and their sense of touch in order to co-operate with the functions of prehension, the factor of cerebral development.

It is, in consequence, a work of retrogression to base a whole system of gymnastics on arm support (as in suspensions, bent-arm support and hand-standing: on such as bars, rings, trapeze).

It is unnecessary to add that for the arms there must always be observance of the law of symmetry in the muscular movements practised, to avoid the differences caused by work which would rapidly have the effect of reacting on the symmetry of the thorax and of the vertebral column and cause deviations in the segments.

Pelvic Basin. The pelvic basin should support the weight of the trunk, of the head and of the upper limbs and transfer it to the heads of the femurs. We have stated that the ligament of Bertini prevents our pelvic basin from tipping upward as much as it should in order to allow us to easily hold ourselves upright. We ought therefore, as far as our means allow, to augment and intensify this movement of tipping which should tend to carry the anterior surface of the basin in an upward direction as far as possible. This movement will diminisn the lumbar hyper-extension: it will facilitate the upright standing position and progressively diminish that unfortunate projection of the sacro-lumbar promontory.

Lower Limbs. These organs have preserved their function of support but they are now only two to undertake the work. As segments they are relatively more massive and more muscular. This voluminous muscular mass is an important factor in the general nutrition of the individual. We cannot let them atrophy excessively without danger; this is why we must compensate that tendency to atrophy of the lower limbs which results from artificial and mechanical locomotion (autocar, aircraft, railways, tramways, etc.) by appropriate gymnastics for the legs. Walking is not sufficient and it is not very economical.
674

The Feet. These are organs which have become profoundly modified in order to allow us to maintain our balance and to walk. They have distinctly lengthened and turn outwards in order to augment the base of support. Two plantar arches, one longitudinal and one transverse, have developed to make the feet supple and elastic organs for walking, running and jumping.

The Abdomen. The muscular envelope of the abdomen, the abdominal muscular waist belt, has become an organ of unsuspected importance and of extreme complexity. We must purposely strengthen it and constantly maintain its tonicity for numerous reasons, a few of which I shall mention. It must keep in place all the abdominal viscera which without it would have a manifest tendency to become displaced—to descend. By its pressure (contraction) it acts favourably on the abdominal circulations which readily become impeded. There exists a solidarity, physiological and anatomical, between the external muscular system and the vegetative muscular system of the abdominal viscera (stomach, intestines, bladder, uterus, glands, organs of excretion).

The abdom'nal muscular belt acts in exoiration and in all actions of expiration, it also helps in all acts of expulsion from the abdomen, since the normal muscle system of the organs (uterus, bladder, intestines) is not normally and sufficiently developed, but it should not take part except as an auxiliary and accessory agent. It co-operates in the diaphragmatic respiration which can only amplify its second time of contraction and raise the ribs by using the viscera—maintained steady by a good tonicity of the abdominal muscular belt—as a fixed point. With strong abdominal muscles and a flat abdomen there will be no displacements, no dropping of the organs, no ptosis, no bad circulation, no malnutrition, no abdominal disorders, no melancholic reactions on the nervous system—vegetative, sympathetic, cerebro-spinal—no psycho-physiopathic reactions, no nervous debility, etc.

We ought now to apply all these criteria to perfect our upright (biped) position. The only rational way is by means of muscular movements. All the movements which our segments can perform are not useful: certain ones are useless, others are even detrimental. It is detrimental to round the back, to bring the shoulders forward, to relax the abdomen, to hollow the back, etc. We should then choose the useful movements, and choice can only be made if we know these movements analytically. Simple movements are the only ones we can analyse. Combined, complex, synthetic movements escape our most exact analysis.

Gymnastics should then consist of simple movements and be analytical. Games and sports, being synthetic, are beyond this analysis and are uneconomical. Gymnastics, then, appears to us as the grammar, the syntax, the scales and the tonic sol-fa; whilst sports may be compared to literature, to oratory, to the score and to orchestration. Gymnastics remains the primal

Digitized by CjOOQle
675

base of all physical education, which should be in essence exclusively analytical and should scrupulously concern itself with the method of execution of the exercises, for it is above all in the method of execution wherein lies the value of the exercise and makes it either good or bad.

To summarise, we are not yet altogether adapted to our upright (biped) position. We must perfect the adaptation. It is only rational educational gymnastics which can contribute to this. The exercises must be well chosen with much thought given even to the minutest details, and their execution carried out with insistence on precision.—School Hygiene and Physical Education, England.

MOTIVES AFFECTING PARTICIPATION IN ATHLETICS

The year has evidenced a considerable spread of the notion that school pupils should play games not to win them but to satisfy some occult, infantile craving for activity. Originating in New York State, this theory has been encountered in California, Ohio, Texas, and elsewhere. Fortunately, it has not yet affected college sport to an appreciable extent. The theory takes no account of the fact that in a well-played contest in any sport, opponents are really cooperating one with another when they play their best. The good sportsman plays to win. He gives his best to any game he plays. He accepts victory modestly, defeat courteously. These lessons, learned through college or school athletics, stand among the best reasons for regarding sport as educational.

It is often insisted that the chief values of athletics, intercollegiate or intramural, formal or informal, reside in their probable development of desirable moral and ethical qualities in participants. From the administrative point of view, this opinion is used as one of the chief justifications for sports and games capably and honorably administered. But as a consideration shaping conduct, the thesis becomes irrelevant as one shifts from the administrative or parental to the undergraduate point of view. Undergraduates who indulge in athletics with a conscious purpose of developing their own moral qualities are fortunately rare, if indeed they exist at all.

The true incentives for youth’s flaying basketball or football or tennis, or for running or throwing a hammer, include the primal need for physical activity, the joy of overcoming, the individual or communal rewards of victory, and the aspiration to do something well before the eyes of one’s fellows, young or old. These deep-seated reasons are in themselves ample justification for college sport. They necessitate its worthy conduct and appropriate place in undergraduate life. The development of qualities of character is a by-product of the greatest importance from the point of view of education, but a by-product none the less, not to be reckoned with as a motive for participation in

Digitized by tjOOQle
676

sports except as it involves, somewhat indirectly, the approval or disapproval of other and usually older persons. The attempt to justify college sport only or principally on the ground of its contribution to moral education belongs to the short-sighted curriculum-maker or administrator, who thereby sacrifices concrete values of immediate appeal to youth for a sentimental philosophy. It is analogous to the somewhat outworn theory that because Greek was “good for undergraduates” it must be made compulsory for all. Just as the individual's native or acquired interest and a remote but clearly defined goal, vocational or otherwise, are again proving themselves to be the best incentives to intellectual performance, so the joys of sport in youth and to youth are once more exerting themselves in the games of undergraduates. Upon this basis, American college sport finds its finest justification.—Bulletin No. 26, Current Developments in American College Sport, The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, New York.

HIGH SCHOOL PHYSICAL EDUCATION IN INDIA AND

ITS DEFECTS.

The physical work that is being carried on in High Schools at the present day is too inadequate to satisfy the ideal of physical education even in the remote future, and is unsatisfactory from several points of view.

The drill master or the instructor we have in our High-Schools is an uneducated and untrained man absolutely incapable of wisely directing physical activities and imparting health instructions. He only knows that it is his business to engage a particular class during a particular period. The relationship between him and the other members of the staff leaves much to be desired. He feels that he cannot control the class properly, and we easily see that really he cannot.

The sports secretary at the present day has to look after the work of sports apart from his twenty or twenty-two periods of regular work. This extra curricular work has not been till now recognised by the department and nothing but criticisms are levelled against him for doing his thankless job. The department should see that sports secretaries are given less of teaching work if they are expected to do their work efficiently.

Regarding the facilities afforded to a drill master for carrying on his work efficiently the less said the better. He is not

(Editor’s Note: Teachers are apt to feel that the problem in their own schools and communities are the most difficult. To them “The Far Off Hills Look Green”. The hill in the foregoing picture, painted in Vyayam, a quarterly journal of physical education in India, does not look so inviting. We are hopeful that the persistent efforts put forth by our Indian colleagues will produce steady improvement.)

Digitized by ^ooQle
677

supplied with any kind of appliances, not even wands in many cases. The requests of the drill masters for better equipment and play grounds fall on deaf ears.

The fag end of the day is usually set apart for drill when the students are fully tired, and they just under some pretext or other manage to escape. The students know full well that they have to do nothing but monotonous drill for forty-five minutes and that they could utilise their time for some better purpose.

The majority of our school going boys are under-fed on account of poverty and the ungraded character of the present type of physical work is likely to do more harm than good to these poor ill-fed boys.

The education department had circularised the schools to the effect that Scouts be exempted from attending drill classes. This was a fine loophole afforded to the boys to escape drill. In fact a number of students became scouts just to avoid the monotonous drill hour.

Last, but not least is the narrow minded view taken by the public regarding physical education in schools. That is the reason why they do not encourage physical activities, especially games, and that is why they dissociate themselves from the physical activities of the school.

REMEDIES:—

The present system of physical training in our schools should undoubtedly be done away with. Any system we introduce, either indigenous or foreign, must be based on scientific principles of psychology and conduce to health. It would be absurd to include indigenous exercises and games in our programme because they are indigenous and discard foreign exercises and games because they are foreign. We should not adhere to any one system in parrot fashion. Whatever serves and meets all the needs of physical training may without any hesitation be included in the programme.

Instead of the underpaid drill master, Government may appoint trained inspectors who could be in charge of sports as well as drill. A graduate physical director could also take regular lessons such as Physiology and Hygiene in the school. With the idea of improving the efficiency of physical work in schools, under the direction of the Education Department, a Summer Course of Physical Training was started last year in the Bangalore City Y. M. C. A. About seventeen were trained last year and about thirteen this year. We hope the departments could make the full use of this training by deputing a number of teachers and have them trained efficiently in modern methods.

There are little or no facilities for games in many of the schools. A large number of the Schools in the State have very little play-grounds attached to them. Government should see that play-grounds are procured for the schools in their vicinity. Schools are very badly equipped in the matter of materials. Sometimes the school authorities place the physical work of their
678

schools, especially the games department, in the hands of their assistants who know very little of games. These instructors are expected to give coaching to the students in the matter of technique but what coaching could be given to boys by these ignoyant people?

This is one of the reasons for the poor attendance in the drill classes.

The Government of Madras appointed the Beasley Committee to inquire and formulate proposals for improving physical education of pupils in Secondary schools in the presidency. This Committee urge that physical training and games should be made compulsory for all pupils except those who are declared unfit by the medical officer of the school, and that absence from games and physical training without leave from the Head Master should be regarded as absence from the school for the whole day. The latter portion of this recommendation may, in some quarters, be considered a bit too harsh but a certain measure of strictness has to be maintained to enforce the disciplinary rule in the case of absentees. The Munshi Committee of Bombay also recommend compulsory physical training in schools by which all pupils should take part in physical activities.

The poverty of the school going boys must receive due consideration in any scheme in physical work for the future. Most of them do not have their mid-day meal, and no useful purpose could be compelling them to take part in out-door games or other athletic activities. The Physical Education Sub-Committee of the S. S. L. C. Board appointed in 1928 examined this problem and suggested that the present working hours be altered to 7:30 A. M. to 11:30 A. M. and 5 P. M. to 6:30 P. M., the evening hours being devoted to physical work, or, that provision should be made for lunch to the deserving boys in the afternoon leisure period. Both Government aid and local philanthropic help will have to be sought for supplying cheap and wholesome food to those who cannot afford it themselves.

The one great criticism levelled against the physical training of our schools at the present day is that it does not give an equal chance to every student to exercise himself. The Beasley Committee felt that it would be more effective if training was given to each boy for at least fifteen minutes every day for the reason that if boys are exercised for a longer period only once a week the benefit derived from it will be much less. Games such as Foot-ball, Hockey, Basket-Ball, Cricket and Play-Ground-Ball may be included in the programme of work as well as a few indigenous games such as Gudu-Gudu and Ko-ko. One or other of these games should be played by every school boy at least twice a week. It is further suggested that the house system be established in all schools. By this system the boys in a school are divided into a number of groups each bearing its own designation and colours. The groups take part in inter-house matches in all games competing annually for a house trophy. This Committee strongly deprecates the award of medals to individual
679

members of a team as it merely tends to defeat the aims of the team system which emphasises the subordination of the individual to the community; while the house system stimulates esprit de corps and healthy rivalry in the school. It is further suggested that the grouping should be entirely irrespective of caste, creed or community.

THE IMPORTANCE OF MUSCLE SENSATIONS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF SKILL.

Coleman R. Griffith, Director of Research in Athletics, University of Illinois, has conducted an experiment to determine the importance of muscle sensations, flthe sixth sense,” in the development of skill in driving a golf ball. The experiment was carried out with the aid of twelve persons who had never played golf. Six of the men formed a group of learners who acquired skill as most players normally acquire it, viz., by listening to the instructions of the coach and notably by following out the instruction, ‘‘Keep your eye on the ball”. The other six learned to drive while blindfolded. The complete report of this experiment appeared in the Athletic Journal.

“The general technique of the experiment including the placing of the ball on a tee in front of the club of blindfolded subjects and such other details as were necessary for the study were worked out in advance with two subjects, one for each of the conditions laid down. This preliminary study was continued for three weeks, each subject being given twenty-five trials a day during twenty-three uninterrupted days. The results of this preliminary experiment presaged the outcome of the experiment now reported in detail.

*Since there is no adequate test of golf ability, whatever this may mean, and since it has not been shown that skill in golfiing is related to any other kind of skill, it was not possible to assure ourselves that these two groups were equally divided iu ability. The men were thrown into two groups by chance, and as chance would have it, they came in approximately equal sizes and strength. Possible differences in strength may account for differences in the length of some of the drives; but since no measures of strength were taken, it is not possible now to check this matter. At the beginning of the study, however, the experimenter had the distinct impression that lot had divided thfe twelve men into two groups that appeared equal in the traits upon which ability in driving might depend.

“All of the men were given the same preliminary instructions. They were told how to stand, how best to hold the club, how to make the swing and such other essentials as are commonly described in the books on how to play golf. They were shown examples of good form by an expert golfer and allowed to practice the swing of the club until each man had a complete idea

Digitized by kjOOQle
680

as to how the thing ought to be done. After this preliminary

Eractice and instructional period, the regular experimental period egan.”

Mr. Coleman's conclusion is that “St looks as though blindfolded subjects may learn to drive a golf ball just as quickly as, if not more quickly than, normal subjects”. In any case, our experiments seem to say that ‘keeping one’s eye on the ball’ does not mean all that it appears to mean. If the learner takes it seriously, he will try to hit the ball in terms of visual experiences rather than in terms of the right feel. The results seem to say that, if one keeps his head immovable, and if he learns to pay attention to the feel of the thing, he may increase his rate of learning in driving a golf ball.”

SCHOOLROOM VENTILATION.

Despite scientific knowledge concerning the proper ventilation of buildings which has been in the possession of architects, hygienists, and engineers for more than twenty-five years, there are still twenty states in the Union which retain statutes or other regulations concerning ventilating devices which are based on disproved or antiquated theories. This statement is made in the final report of the New York Commission on Ventilation, which is issued by the Bureau of Publications of Teachers College, New York, under the title ‘‘School Ventilation, Principles and Practices.”

The report sums up the findings of the Commission, originally appointed by the Governor of the State of New York some years ago to undertake a thorough investigation of all matters which would throw light on the best methods of ventilating schoolrooms and other auditoriums.

The twenty states which still retain statutes or other regulations concerning ventilation devices based on disproved or antiquated theories are: Alabama, Florida, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Maine, Michigan, Montana, New Jersey, New York, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Vermont, West Virginia, Wisconsin.

These twenty states requ're that there be an air supply of • thirty cubic feet per minute per person, a condition which can only be obtained by mechanical ventilation involving the use of fans. This system, according to the Commission’s report, is not only costly, but may in some circumstances be a menace to health, since it tends to drafts and overheating.

The Commission’s report further states that all the evidence gathered during the years of investigation unmistakably points to the conclusion that the window-gravity method of ventilation, in the absence of specific local unfavorable conditions, is generally more satisfactory than the fan system, since more uniform temperature, humidity, and air movement can be maintained in this manner.

Digitized by v^ooQle
681

The members of the Commission, which includes Dr. C. E. A. Winslow, professor of public health at the Yale School of Medicine, chairman, Rufus Cole, Dwight D. Kimball, Frederic S. Lee, George T. Palmer, Earle B. Phelps, and Edward Lee Thorndike, express the hope that their findings may be given serious consideration by law-making and code-making bodies, by architects and educational authorities.

The definite recommendations made in the report for a model ventilation law are as follows:

1.	The major objectives of schoolroom ventilation shall be the elimination of heat from the body surface without the production of objectionable drafts. This means the maintenance of a room temperature of 65 degrees Fahrenheit in corridors, gymnasiums, and shops; of 75 degrees in swimming pools and adjacent dressing rooms; and of 68 degrees in all other occupied rooms.

2.	The avoidance of overheating is of primary importance for the promotion of comfort and efficiency and the maintenance of resistance against disease. Sources of direct radiation, therefore, shall be so designed or protected as to prevent overheating of persons in adjacent seats.

3.	All classrooms shall have at least 15 square feet of floor space and 200 cubic feet of air space per pupil and shall have a system of heating and ventilation which shall provide means of air supply and exhaust capable of avoiding unpleasant odors and of avoiding, without chilling drafts, an increase of room temperature above 68 degrees Fahrenheit.

4.	Such ventilation shall be accomplished by any means which will attain satisfactorily these specified results. For the average school, favorably located, window-gravity (open-window) ventilation seems to be the method of choice on grounds of comfort and economy.

5.	Every schoolroom used for instruction, study, assembly, and physical recreation shall be provided with at least one thermometer of a grade that will give a reading accurate to within one degree Fahrenheit. The thermometer should be so located as to give a representative reading of temperature at the breathing plane of the pupils.

6.	Such an approved system of ventilation shall be maintained in operation whenever school is in session.

“Such a law,” the report states, “would meet the essential needs of the situation. It lays down the essential objectives to be attained. It permits the engineer and the architect to present any design which in their judgment will attain these objectives. Finally, it requires that the State Board of Education, the State Board of Health or such other official agency as may be designated shall approve the plans as submitted. It is exactly in line

Digitized by A^OOQle
682

with the procedure now followed with regard to water supply and waste disposal; and it appears to guarantee a maximum of protection for the public with a minimum of interference with freedom of initiative on the part of the designer.

“Existing regulations should be replaced by laws outlining the major objectives of schoolroom ventilation and delegating to some small expert official body the power to determine whether specific plans for school ventilation are adequate to attain these objectives.”

THE RATIONALE OF WEIGHT REDUCTION*

By Dr. Francis G. Benedict Director of the Nutrition Laboratory, Carnegie Institution of Washington, Boston, Massachusetts.

The weight reduction wave that threatened to reduce all our young women to “bean-pole” outlines a year or so ago has happily in part receded, yet even to-day the interest in weight reduction is so great that the lecturer on physiology, medicine or nutrition has but to introduce the words, “weight reduction” at any part of his discourse to change a quiet, sleepy group into an eager, agitated, expectant band of zealots, all on edge to secure any last-minute advice on the methods of losing flesh. To paraphrase a well-known text we may say, “Some people are born fat, some achieve fatness, and some have fatness thrust upon them.” At the outset it is well for the body to be well nourished but not too fat. Babies are usually well nourished. One seldom hears of any effort to make babies thin, although after they begin to be fed artificially there may be over-feeding with an over-fat baby. In the period of youth and adolescence there is usually, especially with boys, such a tremendous amount of surplus energy and muscular activity that there is ordinarily no problem of weight reduction. With girls, too, in the grammar and high-school age little difficulty arises. One season I had occasion to wait at the front door of a large high school for girls, containing 700 pupils. Not five of those pouring out of the doors could have been charged up as being decidedly too fat.

But now, as to those that achieve fatness. The girl who gives up husky or tomboy activities for mid-Victorian repose and gentility begins to have trouble. She loves sweets; she loves delicacies and goodies just as before, but the exuberant activity of the early teens has by convention been repressed. The love for sweets has not been repressed and in goes the food and there is not the former outlet for the energy. Our patient now begins to acquire fatness and the fight begins. Frankly, until 35 years of age the question of overweight is a matter chiefly of fashion, for a little extra plumpness is from the standpoint of health a real asset in the first three decades

♦Science Service Radio Talk.

Digitized by kjOOQle
683

of life, since apparently it aids materially in helping to ward off the dread disease, tuberculosis. Now statistics perform some curious things, for apparently the night that you are thirtyrfive years of age the chances for a longer life are bettered if you are somewhat under rather than over weight, and it is between thirty-five and sixty years that the greatest danger appears and the struggle against the excess poundage is a real one. Why do people grow fat? There are, to be sure, a relatively small proportion of people with disordered glands who perhaps may be excepted, but in the vast proportion of cases there is just one answer; you eat each day a little more than you require. I repeat that you eat a little more than you require. If you eat the equivalent each day of an ounce of butter more than you need, what happens? You don’t lose it; you don’t bum it; it is digested, assimilated, and note this—it is deposited as fat. One extra ounce of fat means a pound in about two weeks or twenty-five pounds a year. All this from but one ounce, say three pats of butter, extra each day. Please note that I emphasize extra; that means three pats of butter above your daily needs. This goes on gradually, I might almost say insidiously, until the weight increases, the girth increases, the creases increase, and there you are.

All this is not sudden. You may not note it or you may wilfully disregard it. You may say, “Oh well, in the spring I’ll get out and work it off.’’ How will the bathroom scales.help us in this matter? If you have bathroom scales use them at least once a week. If necessary write down your weight and watch the changes. Pay no attention to sudden changes either up or down. Let us see! What about sudden changes? Perhaps the most remarkable instance of a sudden change in weight that I ever knew of was that of a football player who on a warm fall afternoon lost 14 pounds during the afternoon and in this time he had played strenuous football for one hour. Now, thanks to careful analysis and studies in the physiological laboratory, it is perfectly possible to analyze this loss. Is it all body tissue? Is it fat? Is it water? What part of it is water and what part of it is fat, etc.? We know that when a football player plays to the limit of human endurance he can not produce more than say 600 or 700 calories of heat in one hour; in an extreme case 900 calories. Of course, during this time he is eating nothing, and this heat must come from material that is burned in the body and we will assume that it comes from fat. If this is all derived from fat it would require about 100 grams of fat to furnish these 900 calories. 100 grams of fat would be about 3 1-2 ounces. As a matter of fact, he probably would not burn exclusively fat; he would burn a little carbohydrate and some protein, but we can make an extreme case and say that he might have burned all told 100 grams of fat and 50 grams of either protein or carbohydrate. This is an extreme illustration. This makes a total of 150 grams of dry body tissue burned, that is, about one third of a pound. Now dry body tissue is not peeled off the body either internally or externally as such; it is accompanied by water, and in this particular case we can see that if he burned only one third of a pound

Digitized by LjOOQle
684

of dry body material and lost fourteen pounds there must have been thirteen and two thirds pounds of that loss due simply and solely to water. This was really a drying out of the body and it was probably all regained in the water and other liquids consumed, so that in one or two days at the outset the weight was essentially back to the original level. This furthermore illustrates the futility of trying to “work off” fat that has been deposited in the body. If it takes the terrific strain of one hour’s football competition to work off or bum up one third of a pound of body tissue, what chance has the untrained, soft non-athlete to work off any material amount? Work means heat. The heat is derived from food or from body substances, so that by working one does work off body substances, but as we have seen, in very small amounts.

To come back to our ounce of fat, let us make it rather than an ounce, a pat of butter, about one third of an ounce. If this one third of an ounce is taken in excess of the daily needs, only a little more, to work off that particular extra pat of butter taken on that particular day you would have to do work equivalent, for example, to a walk from the bottom to the top of the Washington Monument.

The best way of all to lose fat is not to get fat. If you are fat then it is nearly hopeless to attempt to “work it off.” There is only one way to lose it intelligently, and that is to limit your daily food intake slightly and bum it up slowly, but remember that if we ate each day 3 pats or one ounce of butter less than we really needed, 25 pounds of fat would disappear in the course of a year. Of course, this could be done more rapidly, although with some danger, by complete fasting. In thirty-one days of complete fasting you could lose nearly 30 pounds, but again a good deal of this loss would still'be water. It is impossible to lose weight and not lose some water, for the body is really 60 per cent, of water, but what you want to lose is the fat, and that is the main objective in weight reduction.

Bathroom scales are a very good index for the long pull, for reduction covering months, and you can not reduce except in terms of months. These fat zealots wish quick results, but think, those of you who are really overweight, how long you were putting on the extra poundage, usually several months if not years, so that you must take off that fat in a proportionately moderate way.

Reduction without the continual cooperation of a good physician may really be dangerous. Rapid results can not be expected. No overnight treatment is of value. Most of the innumerable proposals for weight reduction other than by intelligent diet control are not worth serious consideration.

Every extra calorie that you eat, be it from starches, sugars, fat or protein, must be looked upon as a potential fat producer. Fats are, so to speak, twice as concentrated as starches and sugars; hence if one avoids all visible fats in the food this is helpful. Cutting out visible fats is usually not a great hardship, but of itself is of value only when there is no compensation by overeating of other equally fat-producing materials. It is useless to cut out any particular

Digitized by CjOOQle
685

article of the diet, such as bread or potatoes, and then fill up with ice cream. Diets of salads and greens which produce a feeling of fullness are sound in principle but may easily be overdone and produce digestive disturbances.

Exercise in moderation is, of course, essential to health. Extreme exercise, especially if one is not used to it, may be easily overdone, and then there is always this point to bear in mind—a ten-mile walk to ‘‘work off fat” usually is a wonderful stimulant to an appetite all too ready to be appeased.

The use of patent preparations to produce slimness, such as various chewing gums, is nonsense. While it is true that certain glandular extracts and drugs hasten the burning up of material in the body and thus contribute in a small way, at least, to reduction, they are without exception dangerous to use without the continued advice of a competent physician. There is no royal road to slimness. Diet reduction, at times demanding a Spartan-like abstinence from especially loved foods, is the only really logical procedure. It all boils down to a careful, intelligent curtailment of food or fuel intake. It might be termed “scientific stoking.”

CLIMATE IN TUBERCULOSIS AND THE PREVENTION OF

RELAPSES.*

S. Adolphus Knopf, M. D., New York

There have appeared of late many alluring advertisements in the lay and medical press and in circular letters sent directly as first class mail to physicians from various chambers of commerce all praising highly their section of the country and their climate as particularly suited for the tuberculous invalid. On the other hand there have been issued, from individual authorities, official or semiofficial statements emphasizing the importance of judicious home treatment in home climates. It is obvious that it must be bewildering to the lay mind to read such different and seemingly contradictory statements.

Not only the tuberculous individual seeking the best way to cure his disease according to his means, but even the general practitioner, unless he has made phthisiotherapy a special study, may have difficulty in knowing just what is best to do for this disease. Sometimes the family physician, even if he thinks it would be just as well for the patient to remain at home, fearing that it might be thought that ulterior motives prompted him to keep the patient under his care, will send him away to avoid this suspicion.

A fairly long professional life, almost exclusively devoted to the study and practice of the prevention and treatment of tuberculosis, which began with an internship in the Los Angeles County Hos-

Moarnal, American Medical Association.

Digitized by L^ooQLe
686

pital and which is by no means yet completed for there is always much to learn, may nevertheless, enable me to formulate a fairly reasonably accurate idea of the respective value of home treatment in home climates and the benefits that may be derived from the sojourn of the tuberculous invalid in the different climatic resorts as an adjuvant in the cure.

In all of my writings on this subject from the beginning of my career as a tuberculosis worker, starting with the three treatises “lies sanatoria, traitement et prophylaxie de la phtisie pulmonaire,” “Pulmonary Tuberculosis, Its Modem Prophylaxis and the Treatment in Special Institutions and at Home,” and “Die Tuberkulose als Volkskrankheit und deren Bekampfung,” all three published over thirty years ago, I have maintained that there is no specific climate for tuberculosis and that, if I had to choose between having a patient under special medical supervision with mental and physical rest in his home climate or sending him even to an “ideal” climate where he would merely do as he pleased, I would prefer the former, believing he would have a better chance for recovery. I have not changed my attitude in this respect, and my subsequent studies, visits to many American and European climatic health resorts, and a lengthy experience in private, hospital, sanatorium and consultation practice have led me to the conclusions presented here.

The benefits to be derived from a sojourn in the public sana-toriums, maintained by many states, which must be resorted to by a large number of people, have been clearly set forth in an official announcement issued, this year, by the U. S. Public Health Service. To elucidate whatever value there may be in climate as an additional factor in the treatment of tuberculosis, I venture to suggest in this contribution certain statements that may perhaps serve as maxims in the treatment an 1 in the climatology of tuberculosis.

1.	The most important part in the treatment of tuberculosis in any form is “jrest”—rest of body and of mind. In pulmonary tuberculosis local rest of the lung may be added to the general rest by restricted or superficial respiration, but always in as pure air as may be obtainable. When the tuberculous lesion is located in any part of the upper lobes, controlled diaphragmatic respiration may be resorted to to give additional local rest to the active processes. With strict medical supervision, or what is best known as the “sanatorium regimen,” the treatment may be carried out in the home of the patient. In most homes, however^ such a regimen is difficult to install and the hospital or sanatorium gives the best possible chance for the recovery of the invalid.

2.	When the sanatorium regimen can be conscientiously carried out, whether in an institution or at home, climatic conditions are of secondary importance; but to deny the beneficial influence of certain climatic regions as a valuable adjuvant in the treatment of tuberculosis is as dangerous and unscientific as the belief in the specific curative quality of any particular climate.
687

3.	A change of climate, though not necessarily a marked one, except in the latest stages of the disease, if of either a pulmonary or a laryngeal character, is nearly always good. While a change from an unfavorable climate to a favorable one, or from a good to a better, must naturally be considered preferable, this rule is by no means inflexible. When the patient has contracted tuberculosis in a favorable climate, a change to another, even to a seemingly less favorable one, may accomplish as much good for this individual as the reverse in others. This fact was particularly impressed on me by the late Prof. Edward G. Janeway, one of the greatest internists and medical teachers of his time.

4.	The native locality of the tuberculous must be taken into consideration when making a climatic change. The patient who spent his early youth in Norway or in other parts of northern Europe, or one born in Massachusetts, Maine or northern New York, where the winters are rigorous, will usually do better in such climates as Colorado, Montana, the Adirondacks, and Sullivan or Orange counties of New York offer. The sons and daughters of sunny Italy and American born citizens from the warmer zones will do better in climates such as are to be found in southern California, New Mexico, Arizona, western Texas, North and South Carolina, Virginia, Florida, Bermuda and the Riviera.

5.	To the foregoing rule there are exceptions, and besides consideration of nativity one should be guided in a large measure by the patient’s personal experience. For example': A cold climate may be selected if the patient has found by experience that he feels more comfortable and less distressed in winter. A change to a warmer climate is indicated when the reverse is the case. When the experience of the patient has demonstrated that he felt better when near the sea coast, or vice versa, this factor must also serve as an indication for his domicile while seeking cure.

6.	There exist idiosyncrasies in regard to climatotherapeutics and aerotherapeutics as there exist in regard to hydrotherapeutics, electrotherapeutics and medicinal therapeutics. These idiosyncrasies cannot be discovered beforehand, they can only be learned by experience.

7.	High (above 3,000 feet), moderately high (from 1,500 to 3,000) and low altitudes, hot and cold regions, seacoast and ocean climates, prolonged voyages, life on houseboats on rivers and lakes, extreme dryness and moisture have all proved advantageous in numbers of cases.

8.	The value of any climate to a tuberculous patient cannot be determined or compared with any other, unless the patient lives undo: careful medical guidance in a sanatorium or private home and follows the best hygienic and dietetic treatment in both instances.

9.	Patients with laryngeal disorders, in the earlier stages with relatively little pulmonary involvement are often benefited by a change to a moderately nigh and warmer moist climate with between 500 and 1,500 feet of altitude, particularly when there is a

Digitized by <^.ooQLe
688

chronic feeling of dryness in the throat. When there is a tendency to moist catarrh the extremely dry and hot clmates, provided dust storms are not frequent, are often beneficial. In patients with pulmonary tuberculosis a weak heart, distinctive heart or serious kidney lesions, emphysema, constant fever and extreme nervousnes are contraindications to high altitudes. Whenever such pathologic conditions do not exist, some degree of altitude and cold or cold, dust free or at least relatively dust free regions will always prove a valuable adjuvant in the treatment of tuberculosis. Early pulmonary hemorrhage per se need not be considered in determining a choice of climate. However, as a rule, and particularly in patients inclined to frequent hemoptysis, long distance journeys should be made with frequent rests and great altitudes approached only gradually. Not a few patients with slight bronchial symptoms (bronchitis) but weak hearts and evidences of mixed infection do well at the seacost for the greater part of the year. Prolonged ocean voyages may also prove beneficial in such cases. The patient, however, must not be subject to seasickness, must be fond of the ocean, and be in a situation to travel in comfort and with ease on a relatively slow steamer or large ship with a medical officer on board.

10.	The wonderful success of the relatively recent work inaugurated by Rollier of Leysin has demonstrated the value of judicious solar therapy in high alpine-like climates. The gradual exposure to the cold air and actinic and ultraviolet rays of the sun has added greatly to the armamentarium in the treatment of tuberculous bone and joint diseases, particularly in childhood.

11.	In so-called contact cases in which the individual has lived in more or less close proximity with the patient suffering from active tuberculosis with bacilli in the sputum, or in cases that are strongly suggestive by reason of slight symptoms of incipience, there is, of course, no need for climatic change. But if at all possible, the patient who is considered infectious should be removed from the environment where he may infect other members of his family, and the suspected case should be carefully watched and the preventive treatment inaugurated.

12.	In the choice of locality for the purpose of a climatic change for any patient suffering with a pulmonary or laryngeal lesion, besides the pathologic considerations enumerated in paragraph 9, many factors must be taken into account:

(а)	If a patient wishes to return to his home after improvement or restoration to health with an arrested or apparently arrested case, may he do so safely or not? Experience has shown that when great climatic changes have been made, patients frequently relapse when returned to their former home.

(б)	If the patient is married or single, young or old, willing or unwilling to leave: If the patient is subject to nostalgia, and generally much attached to home environments, sending him far away, and particularly if against his wish, may often produce disastrous

Digitized by LjOOQle
689	•

results, for mental depression retards recovery and aggravates pathologic conditions.

(c)	If the patient is sanguine and cheerful he will usually do well even at long distances from home in isolated regions under medical care within or outside a sanatorium.

(d)	For the morose and hypochondriac patient, isolation or long distances away from home have often produced the same result as in the patient with nostalgia.

(e)	The psychology of the patient regarding the choice of eliminate is most important. For example, when he has heard of a friend or relative who has been cured in this or that climate and he desires to go there, not to yield to his wishes would probably materially lessen his chances of finding contentment and peace and

ipso facto retard his recovery. Therefore, when at all compatible with the patient's condition, his wishes concerning climate should be respected.

(/) To remove a patient in an advanced and evidently hopeless stage from his home to a long distance is as cruel as it is unscientific unless it is done at the patient’s special request and with the likelihood of obtaining the object in view, to lessen his suffering and make him happier in general. Slight climatic changes with short distances to travel are often beneficial in such far advanced cases when made with the absolute consent of the patient.

(jr) The patient’s financial condition must be such that by his removal to distant localities and his subjecting himself to the hygienic and dietetic treatment in special institutions or health resorts he will not become destitute and a burden to the community that has extended its hospitality to him. His means should be sufficient to avoid all possible anxieties and worry in this respect.

13.	When the situation is such that home climate or home treatment must be taken into consideration, one should bear in mind that the patient will do better in the outskirts of the city than in the city; in the higher parts of the locality than in the lower; in a clear or relatively clear, dustless atmosphere than in a dusty one; in a pure, smokeless, or relatively pure and smokeless locality than in one full of smoke and odors; in a locality in which he may get the benefit of whatever sunshine there is than in a valley, canyon or narrow street surrounded by high buildings; where there are few houses than many; where there are relatively few people than where there is overcrowding and where there is little traffic and little noise than the reverse. These conditions always receive due consideration in the selection of locations for public state and county sanatoriums.

14.	When tuberculosis has been contracted in what is usually considered a very favorable climate, the patient does not always seem to do so well there. A climatic change then becomes necessary. This fact was impressed on me during my early practice in southern California. I often had occasion to observe that when treating young people bom in southern California, particularly in the city of Los Angeles, who contracted tuberculosis, they never seemed to
do well at home, but when sent to another region where* there were different climatic conditions, even seemingly less favorable, they improved rapidly. The factors which bring about an improvement through a sojourn in a decidedly different though even apparently less favorable climate in tuberculous adults and among elderly people in the East, as suggested by Dr. Janeway in maxim 3, seem to be the same as in these young Californians.

15.	The ideal climate for the average patient with pulmonary tuberculosis in the earlier and more hopeful stages of the disease is the one in which the extremes of temperature are not great, with only rare fogs or none at all, with the purest possible atmosphere, with relatively little humidity, with much sunshine, and with all conditions that permit the patient to live comfortably outdoors the greatest number of days out of the year and the greatest number of hours out of the twenty-four. For tuberculosis of the bones and joints and scrofulous diseases of childhood, the seacoast climate in the temperate zones comes nearer to deserving the term “specific” than anything else. The peculiarly beneficial influence of seacoast climate in bone and joint tuberculosis is doubtlessly to be ascribed to the aseptic and ozonic quality of the air and the iodides and other salts suspended therein. But pure air and outdoor life, in whatever locality, can and should be utilized in all the methods of treatment of tuberculosis in old and young and in scrofulous diseases of childhood. There also must be obtained for the patient contentment, peace of mind and an attitude of hopefulness. These are as important as all the physical means in phthisiotherapy.

Volumes have been written on the subject of climate in tuberculosis, from Hippocrates down to the present time, and it would be an herculean task to give the bibliography of climatology in tuberculosis. But I should like to mention the experiences of men who either personally or by their lifelong work have demonstrated the value of climate as an important adjuvant in the treatment of the various forms of tuberculosis, when the patient can afford it and is willing to leave home. Dr. Trudeau had been diagnosed as tuberculous by no less a man than Dr. Edward G. Janeway, who had told him that the upper part of his left lung was involved in an active tuberculous process. Trudeau could have had the best possible home care under the best physicians in New York City, but he went to the Adirondacks, following the example of Brehmer of Goerbers-dorf, who had built a sanatorium in the Silesian mountains. Trudeau was an active worker on behalf of the tuberculosis sufferers for over thirty years and lived to the age of 70. He made Saranac Lake one of the greatest health resorts for tuberculous invalids, and under the Adirondack Cottage sanatorium regimen untold numbers of American and Canadian patients were indebted to Trudeau and the invigorating climate of the Adirondacks for their restoration to health. My own chief at the Falkenstein Sanatorium, Geheimrath Dettweiler, who added the rest cure on the reclining chair to the institutional and climatic treatment and who cured himself of tuberculosis and, like Trudeau, cured hundreds of cases, chose the
691

elevated Taunus region for his ‘‘Heilanstalt.” Lastly, my French teacher Professor Grancher, himself tuberculous, advised his tuberculous pupil Sabourin to establish the sanatorium at Canigou in the mountains of the Oriental Pyrenees. Solly of Denver, Minor of Asheville, N. C., King of Loomis, N. Y., and many other physicians, personally known to me, who were themselves tuberculous, ascribed their recovery to the combination of climate and the hygienic and dietetic treatment.

Such men who have given us the benefit of their personal experience through suffering and their observations in phthisiotherapy I revere as my teachers and inspirers, and I feel an equally great admiration and gratitude for the men like Biggs, Bowditch and Osier, who taught the value of home climate and home treatment. But even the latter three, all one time presidents of the National Tuberculosis Association, appreciated the value of certain climates as an important adjuvant in the treatment of tuberculosis.

I am sure that the many American phthisiotherapeutists now practicing in the various health resorts and the great majority of physicians who make tuberculosis their specialtv will agree with me in the essentials of the maxims I have set forth.

In the selection of sites for state sanatoriums, the highest and supposedly most salubrious regions have been chosen for their establishment. The same policy I am glad to state has been followed in choosing the localities for the tuberculosis War Veterans hospitals. The United States Military Tuberculosis Hospital was started at Fort Bayard, now War Veterans’ Hospital, No. 55, and the United States Marine Hospital, under the direction of the U. S. Public Health Serivce, is located at Fort Stanton. Both institutions are in New Mexico. Fitzsimons General Hospital of the U. S. Army, which is taking care of more than 1,000 tuber-berculous soldiers and war veterans, is located at Denver.

In conclusion I will say a word concerning my personal observations regarding climatology in tuberculosis. As an interne in the Los Angeles County Hospital many years ago, when that now great metropolis still had the air of a little Spanish town with about 20,000 inhabitants, three of my five wards were occupied by consumptive

Eatients. They had come to Los Angeles with little or no means, aving heard that the “glorious climate of California’’ would suffice to cure them. Instead of that, after their slender means had been exhausted they landed at the county hospital in the more or less advanced stages of tuberculosis to finish their days in that institution. It was there that I had the first lesson in the fallacy of sending patients to distant “ideal climates” when they have insufficient means and are unable to carry out the hygienic and dietetic regimen.

After graduation from Bellevue I returned to California and entered private practice in Los Angeles, and to my satisfaction I observed that the well-to-do patients in the early and even moderately advanced stages did remarkably well when they were under careful medical supervision, had plenty of good food and care, and lived the greater part of the time outdoors.

Digitized by L^ooQle
692

In the many years of labor in the tuberculosis clinics and hospitals of the New York Health Department I learned to appreciate the value of proper environments in phthisiotherapy. At the Riverside Hospital, located on North Brother Island, where we received the tuberculous poor in all stages of the disease when they constituted a danger to their families, I noticed an almost immediate improvement in the condition of such patients after their removal from lower east or lower west side tenements into clean beds in hospital wards. In such cases, not climate but better air and environment were responsible for the improvement.

In spite of official statements in the newspapers that relatively little importance is to be attached to a climatic change, one should not blind oneself to the fact that climate constitutes a valuable therapeutic adjuvant in phthisiotherapy if wisely chosen, and one must also be fair to one’s colleagues in private practice in climatic health resorts or sanatoriums who are sincere and honest in their reports proving the value of a climate as a help in the cure of tuberculosis. I am not a member of the Climatological Society and am not, of course, interested in any private sanatoriums or health resorts reputed as being particularly suitable for the treatment of tuberculous invalids.

At present, especially, one must not forget that public hospitals and sanatoriums are filled to capacity and that there are large waiting lists. Dr. Linsly R. Williams, last year’s president of the National Tuberculosis Association and now president of the New York Tuberculosis and Health Association, made the statement recently that there are 50,000 people in New York City alone who have tuberculosis, and that at least 15,000 of them do not know that they have it or do not know what to do about it. According to a recent statement by Dr. Ray Lyman Wilbur, chairman of the Committee on the Cost of Medical Care, in the United States there are 700,000 persons sick with tuberculosis at any one time. How many of these should or could avail themselves of climatic treatment under sanatorium regimen I, for one, would not venture to estimate.

Perhaps some well-to-do patient now recovering from tuberculosis in one of these health resorts or sanatoriums, or some of his wealthy friends, may wish to extend the opportunity of climatic treatment under medical supervision to some tuberculous veteran or civilian sufferer who is now waiting for a vacancy in a hospital or sanatorium. What a splendid opportunity this offers for doing good and helping to relieve the present sad condition that many tuberculosis sufferers are experiencing as a result of the general economic depression. National and local tuberculosis associations would, I am sure, gladly help in recommending the most deserving invalid for such good fortune.

While the conscientious and well educated practitioner would probably not be affected by any published statements minimizing climate as an adjuvant in the cure of tuberculosis and would continue to use his best judgment as to whether or not his patient would do better if a climatic change were added to the usual treatment,
693

there may be occasionally less conscientious and less ethical physicians, and there are certainly any number of irregular practitioners following this or that cult, who will try to keep the patient at home for pecuniary gain, regardless of the evident need of a climatic change or sanatorium treatment. There are, as all know, men and women who call themselves doctors of this and that particular ism, and practitioners of religious cults, who will base their action in retaining the patient at home on the statement that climate or institutional treatment is of little or no importance in tuberculosis.

In the excellent announcement issued by the U. S. Public Health Service under the heading “Climate and Tuberculosis,” the closing paragraph contains the following important conclusions:

A radical change in the habits of the individual is often necessary. That is why he should go for the first six months to a nearby sanatorium. There the chief business is getting well. He lends himself to the routine of rest and more rest, asleep and awake, freely flowing air night and day, good food, proper food habits, and the other elements of sanatorium life. He learns to “play the game,” and after graduation from a sanatorium he is safe risk for his physician to treat.

The only serious question that arises in my mind on reading this statement is: In how many cases will these six months suffice to prevent a relapse? The average stay of a tuberculous patient in veterans’ hospitals is one year. This is longer than the average stay permitted in public civilian hospitals, from which patients are usually discharged after six months or so, either as arrested cases or as those who have obtained the maximum benefit from hospitalization. The tuberculosis experts attached to the Veterans’ Bureau will bear me out when I say that in many cases even one year is not enough to accomplish a cure, and the physician in civilian practice well knows of the frequent relapses that occur in patients discharged from public sanatoriums and hospitals. Neither the authorities of the veterans’ hospitals nor those of public sanatoriums can be blamed for this unfortunate situation for, as already stated, there are not enough institutions either for the tuberculous war veterans or for the tuberculous civilians who cannot afford a private sanatorium or health resort treatment.

What seems to be as important as the multiplication of institutions for the treatment of tuberculosis is the creation of some intermediate or convalescent stations to prevent the frequent relapses among tuberculous patients, arrested, apparently arrested or economically cured (that is to say, sufficiently restored to assume their former or other occupations to support themselves or their families). These would provide a systematic postsanatorium treatment for all such patients after their discharge. An institution located in or near the same climate to which the patient intends to return would of course be ideal. Here the one-time patient, with the aid of careful hydrotherapy, should learn the value of cold water ablutions or douches as a means to strengthen his system against colds. Respiratory therapy, in the purest air obtainable, first of the dia-

Digitized by kjOOQle
694

phragmatic and then of the thoracic type, should be instituted to benefit the patient’s pulmonary function. Massage and graduated work therapy will be the means employed to overcome the weakened, flabby condition of the muscular system which is a natural result of the prolonged rest cure.

I am firmly convinced that if such convalescent stations could be established in sufficient numbers there would be fewer relapses, and	ipso facto	the morbidity and mortality of tuberculosis would

be greatly decreased.

Hope for the eradication of tuberculosis in the present state of social life lies in its prevention by education in hygienic living, better housing of the laboring classes, prevention of undernourishment, particularly in times of unemployment and general business depression, more universal prenatal and postnatal care, abolition of child labor, the treatment of bone and joint tuberculosis in children in seaside sanatoriums or institutions at high altitudes where heliotherapy and aerotherapy can be carried out most successfully, preventoriums for predisposed children, periodic health examinations for the early discovery of pulmonary tuberculosis in old and young, and the treatment of all tuberculous cases at the right time and at the right place. If to this can be added some preventive inoculation or curative serum on which so many of the American and European research scientists are now at work, so much sooner may mankind be freed from the appearance in its midst of the Great White Plague.

ONTARIO ATHLETIC COMMISSION. ITS WORKS AND

AIMS.

The activities of the Ontario Athletic Commission are pretty well known throughout the schools of the Province. After eleven years of athletic work among the schoolboys, during which two sets of Olympic candidates have been developed, it would seem scarcely necessary to say anything to teachers and pupils that they do not already know.

The Commission has had in mind the development of boys in athletics along the most modern and up-to-date methods. They are taken before they have acquired incorrect styles of doing things, and by the aid of the best coaches in Canada, equal, in fact, to any in the world, have been taught the very latest and best methods in every event.

The boys are brought along with a programme suited to their ages, and the climax is reached in a set of Games modelled after the card used at the Olympics. How well this has succeeded may be gathered from the fact that in the Olympic Games (of 1922), Canada did far better than in any previous set of World’s Games.

The Commission has invaded every nook and corner of the Province, paying particular attention to those sections where it is difficult to secure proper coaching.

Digitized by CjOOQle
695

The Province has been divided into nine Districts, each holding a meet of its own in the Spring, and the winners in each of the events in these meets are brought to the Finals, with their expenses all paid by the Commission. The prizes in medals for all these meets are supplied by the Commission.

The aim of the Commission is to start the boy along the right path, coach him to develop correct methods in his sport, and above all, make a true sportsman of him.

The boy is the problem, and the old idea that sport sanely indulged in is a detriment to him in his studies, has long since been exploded. The Commission has made it a rule that no boy who has not made 50% in his school work will be permitted to compete in its Games. The number of boys ineligible on this account is negligible—a sufficient answer to any quibblers.

Hearty co-operaton of the teachers is a requisite to success, and, it may be added, that the most successful schools academically, are also the most prominent athletically.

The work of the Commission has been attended with splendid success, and the outlook grows brighter and brighter as the teachers realize that this work, under careful direction, tends to develop the mind with the body.

Notice To Teachers.

The Ontario Athletic Commission wishes to call the attention of the Principals and Physical Instructors of both sexes, of the schools of Ontario, to the assistance which it extends to them.

Books. The Athletic Commission has secured for its library, copies of some of the best books on correct methods of coaching the following: Track and Field Sports, Swimming and Diving, Basketball, Rugby Football, Baseball, Graded Calisthenics, Gymnastics, Group Games, Pyramid Building, Tennis, Folk Dancing.

Any teacher wishing the name of a suitable book on any of these subjects, may obtain it by writing to the Commission. We will not loan these books, but we are prepared to supply the names of these books, together with the price, and the name and address of the bookseller from whom they may be purchased. This library is also open to inspection by any teacher, when in Toronto, and visitors will be welcomed at all times.

Information. If any teacher, at any time, desires information on any branch of athletics, the Ontario Athletic Commission will make every effort to obtain and forward the desired facts, as soon as possible after receipt of the request. Suggestions from teachers will always be welcomed as to any way in which the Commission can be of greater service to the teaching profession.

Assistance. The Ontario Athletic Commission does not extend financial assistance to schools, nor does it furnish athletic equipment. But it is always willing to assist inter-school track and field meets by supplying officials.

The events for the District and Final Athletic Meets, under the auspices of the Ontario Athletic Commission, for the Ontario Schools’

Digitized by LjOOQle
696

Track and Field Championships, together with the Standards, which must be attained in each event are:—

PUBLIC AND SEPARATE SCHOOLS 15 years and under

Event

100 yards ...................................

220 yards ...................................

440 yards Relay .............................

Running High Jump............................

Running Broad Jump...........................

Pole Vault ..................................

Standard .11 3-5 secs 26 secs 53 secs . 4 ft. 10 in .16 ft. 10 in . 8 ft. 6 in

JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS 15 years and under

100 yards ........................................11	1-5	secs

220 yards ........................................... 25	secs

440 yard Relay ...................................... 51	secs

120 yards Low Hurdles ............................... 18	secs

8-lb. Shot ............................................ 40	ft

Running High Jump....................................... 5	ft

Running Broad Jump............................... 18	ft.	4	in

Pole Vault ........................................ 9ft.	2	in

INTERMEDIATE HIGH SCHOOLS 17 years and under

Event	Standard

100 yards ......................................... 11 secs

220 yards ........................................24	3-5 secs

440 yards ......................................... 57 secs

880yards ........................................2 min. Msecs

880 Yards Relay ...............................lmin. 40 secs

120 yards Low Hurdles ............................16	3-5 secs

12-lb. Shot ......................................36	ft. 6 in

Running High Jump .................................5 ft. 5 in

Running Broad Jump................................18	ft. 6 in

Pole Vault ........................................9	ft. 10 in

Javelin .................................................130	ft

Discus .................................................. 90	ft

SENIOR HIGH SCHOOLS Under 20 years

100 yards .................................................10 4-5	secs

220 yards .............................................. 24	secs

440 yards .................................................56 3-5	secs

880 yards ......................................2	mins.	10	siecs

Mile ................................................ 5 min

Mile Relay .....................................3	mins.	45	secs

120 yards High Hurdles ..................................18	secs

12-lb. Shot ...........................................39 ft

Digitized by v^ooQle
697

Running High Jump........................       5	ft.	6	in

Running Broad Jump....................:..............19	ft

Pole Vault ........................................ .10 ft

Javelin ..........................................  135	ft

Discus ...................................:.........100	ft

CHRISTMAS SEALS AND SCIENCE.

By Dwight Anderson

As the annual Christmas seal sale opens this year, marking the twenty-fifth anniversary of the continuous, organized war on tuberculosis, in the United States the question may arise in the minds of thinking people why science has not developed some quick and certain cure, such for example, as the toxin which prevents diphtheria.

Research workers have been faithfully at work on this problem but as yet without success. The control of tuberculosis must still be based on accurate early diagnosis and the perfection of treatment by means of the recognized methods, rest, fresh air, and nursing care. The disease kills only one person today where it killed two a quarter of a century ago. Nevertheless tuberculosis is still a major public health problem. More people between the ages of 15 and 45 die of it than of any other disease.

In spite of its failure to discover a specific cure, science has quite recently made two advances in the study of tuberculosis of great practical value. One is the purification of tuberculin— the substance used everywhere to detect infection—so that results from its use are sure to be uniform. The other assures making X-ray pictures free from blurring and of standardized depth of shadow. Both these contributions to tuberculosis work increase the physician’s ability to make early and accurate diagnoses which, in turn, increases the hope of cure.

The new tuberculin will be known as “MA-100.” For many years tuberculin has been used in a simple and harmless skin test as a means of determining infection. This did not mean disease existed when persons reacted positively—but that among those who responded would be found all those with active tuberculosis, so that in the hunt for cases among large groups such as school children, for example, further inquiry and examination could be safely limited to the positive reactors to this test—the others could not be in any danger. There was one flaw in the process. The old tuberculin contained ingredients other than the active principle, some of which might cause reactions when there was really no infection at all. In addition to this, it was impossible to graduate the dosage uniformly, because the substance was not pure, and this interfered with that accurate study and comparison of results upon which medical science depends for progress in human betterment.

Digitized by Google
698

The new tuberculin marks a great step forward, and comes as a result of several years’ research in a number of laboratories by scientific men working under a cooperative plan as the Research Committee of the National Tuberculosis Association. This is the organization which sponsors the Christmas seal sale through its 2084 local associations and committees throughout the United States, and part of the money raised through the seal sale goes to pay the ejq>enses of such research.

Standardizing X-ray pictures has long been a problem among specialists in tuberculosis. Variations in mechanism, in local conditions, in the personality of operator, conspired to interfere with scientific accuracy. For example, pictures made in one city with a certain apparatus would be found, if the patient moved to another city, to be of little use when compared with those taken later in watching the progress of the patient, because the second physician would not be conversant with the variables of the first machine, and would be unable to make allowances for them. Differences in lighting and mechanical action rendered it imperative for the physician reading the negative to understand fully the peculiarities known to exist in the operation of the apparatus. It was next to impossible for physicians to confer with each other by correspondence, because the interpretation of shadows would differ in many instances. The new instrument devised to remedy this grave fault establishes a standard which the operator can use to know in advance of taking the X-ray that a certain established density in the picture will be obtained. This reduces those variations which have heretofore stood in the way of accurate judgment, and constitutes a notable achievement in the war against tuberculosis.

Another improvement in mechanism developing at the same time, is a method of synchronizing several short exposures between heart beats to produce a clear, composite negative free from blurring caused by the heart’s action. It operates something like a machine gun on a combat airplane, which shoots bullets through whirling propeller blades.

By such gradual advances as these the relentless campaign against tuberculosis is waged. They are not spectacular instances of brilliant inspiration, but rather striking examples of careful, plodding work such as characterizes the all-year-round efforts throughout the nation to prevent and cure tuberculosis, which are financed by the Christmas seal sale.

MEN, MONEY AND SICKNESS.

By Philip P. Jacobs, Director of Publications and Extension Service National Tuberculosis Association

Men are worth money. It costs parents approximately $10,000 to raise a boy or girl to the age of eighteen in a family where the income is about $2,500 a year. In a family where the income is larger, the cost rises accordingly. And for the most

Digitized by Google
699

part, with the exception of a few earnings that the boy or girl may make between the ages of sixteen and eighteen, this is a cash outlay or a capital investment in the child.

Among the items that enter into this cost, are, for example, the cost of being bom, which is not so much, but it amounts to at least $250 under present day circumstances. To feed a boy or girl up to the age of eighteen, costs on an average of $2,755. Clothing and shelter amount to $3,33$. The schooling of the child costs the community on an average of $1,100. The grand total of actual cost to the parents, exclusive of the $1,100 spent by the community, ranges between $9,180 and $10,485.

Sickness costs money. Ask the average householder in a family where the income is approximately $2,500 a year and he will tell you that it costs about $80 a year for doctors, medicines, etc. So the total for a boy up to the age of eighteen would run nearly $300.

But sickness costs in another way. We raise thousands of boys and girls up to the age of eighteen or even twenty-one and then allow them to die of tuberculosis, a preventable disease. What does it cost society under these circumstances? To say that this is a great waste of money is putting it mildly. It would be just as foolish to build a house and as soon as it was built, to burn it to the ground. Tuberculosis can be prevented, but the facts are that between the ages of fifteen and forty-five, after we have made our greatest investment in childhood and youth, the largest number of deaths from tuberculosis occur, more deaths in fact than from any other disease that causes death in that age period. Computing the value of a human life at any figure, even the most conservative, the loss to society under these circumstances amounts to hundreds of millions of dollars every year.

Can we afford to allow a preventable disease, tuberculosis, to continue to cause such great loss in life and money, when by concerted community effort tuberculosis can be controlled?

Christmas Seals offer one way in which you and everyone else can help the organized national, state, and local tuberculosis associations of this country to bring about the control of this great White Plague.

The 1932 national convention of the American Physical Education Association will be held in Philadelphia on April 20-23 inclusive with headquarters in the Benjamin Franklin Hotel. Plans are already under way to insure a successful convention.

A feature is the fact that no meetings will be scheduled for Saturday, April 24* leaving that day free for visits to such famous nearby places as Washington, Atlantic City and New York City. Teachers of physical and health education, including playground and recreation workers, might well begin to lay aside a nest egg in order to insure their attendance.

Digitized by Google
700

-------------------------------------—«

Gymnasium and playground

< '------------------------------'    4

TACTIC&, FREE EXERCISES AND POSES FOR MEN AND

WOMEN

Model Exercises for the Buffalo Tumfest By Dave Henschen, Northwest Davenport Turner Society, Davenport, Iowa.

Music: “Stars and Stripes Forever” by Sousa.

Played as written, except the last part which is not repeated. Formation—1, 2, 3, 4, 5.

Files, 1, 3, 5, Men. Files, 2, 4, Women.

GROUP I

Exercise I, Men:

A.	Deep knee bending, raise arms sideward................ 1-2

B.	Jump to stride stand, place hands in rear of head.....	3-4

C.	Jump to squat stand................................... 5-6

D.	Straighten legs backward to support lying frontways.... 7-8

E.	Bend arms, raise left leg backward...................... 9-10

F.	Return to position D................................... 11-12

G.	Return to position C................................... 13-14

H.	Straighten to starting position........................ 15-16

Repeat right, left and right........................... 17-64

Exercise I, Women

Swing hop left sideward, arms left lateral.................... 1-2

Swing hop right sideward, arms right laternal................. 3-4

File 2 starts left, file 4 starts right

Jump to sidestride stand twice, arms sideward................. 5-8

A-B-C & H of Men’s exercise number one....................... 9-16

Repeat three times.......................................... 17-64

Exercise II, Men, Files 1-3-5

A.	Swing left leg forward and raise arms foreupward..	1-2

B.	Layout left backward, place hands on floor........ 3-4

C.	Squat left forward, between hands................. 5-6

D.	1-2 turn right on the right foot, swing arms sideward,

place hands on floor................................. 7-8

E.	Straighten right leg backward to support lying position .............................................

F.	Return to squat stand..........................     11-12

G.	Jump to side stride stand, swing arms foreupward.. 13-14

H.	Jump to starting position, swing arms sidedownward.. 15-16

Repeat right, left and right............................ 17-64

Digitized by
701

Exercise II, Women, Files 2-4

Balance hop turn inward, arms third amplified............... 1-4

Balance hop turn outward, arms third amplified.............. 5-8

Fallout inward, shot put position.......................... 9-12

Straighten inner leg and arms sideward.................... 13-14

Starting position........................................  15-16

Repeat 1-16, starting outward............................. 17-32

Repeat inward and outward................................. 33-64

Exercise III

Men do exercise number one of Women’s exercise, Group

one ................................................... 1-64

Exercise III

Women do exercise two of men’s exercise, Group one,

start facing inward; repeat right, left and right.___	1-64

Exercise IV, Pose I

File No. 3 Jump to side stride stand, arms obliquely side-

upward ......................................*__________ 1-2

Files No. 2-4, one step toward center 1-2, layout inward, placing inner hands on hips, outer arms raised side-

upward ................................................. 3-4

Rise to side balance stand and grasp hands of No. 3......... 5-6

Files 1-5, lunge inward, arms sideward 1-4, Layout-inward,

place inner hands on floor 5-6, hold position.......... 7-16

Return to open order position............................... 1-8

Pose II

Files 2-4, step backward one step and one step to the

center________________________________________________  9-12

File 3, jump to side stride stand, hands on hips___________ 9-12

Files 1-5, two steps to the center......................... 9-12

Files 1-5, lunge to the center................*----------- 13-14

Files 2-4, place hands on shoulders of files 1-3-5 and jump

to stride stand on thighs of 1-3-5____________________ 13-14

Files 2-4, straighten arms sideward........................ 15-16

Files 1-5, place outer hands on hips...................... 15-16

Hold position............................................... 1-8

Return to open order position.............................. 9-16

Exercise V, Marching

Close files to the center..............................—	1-4

Mark time................................................... 5-8

1-4 wheel left by fives to a front line.................... 9-12

Left half of line face left about________________________  13-16

4-4 wheel left around the center........................... 1-32

Left half of line face left about........................... 1-4

1-4 wheel right by fives....................................  5-8

Open files outward from center............................. 9-12

Mark time.................................................. 13-16

Digitized by LaOOQie
702

GROUP II (Files 1-5 start outward, files 2-4 start inward)

Exercise I

Raise left leg and arms sideward........................... 1-2

Lunge left sideward, bend arms to thrust................... 3-4

1-4 turn right, on heels, change knee bending, thrusting left arm obliquely foreupward and right arm opposite

(trunk and left leg in line).......................... 5-6

Kneel left, swing left arm obliquely backdownward, right

arm bent, forearm in front of head (Body erect)....	7-8

Return movements........................................   9-16

Repeat 3 times........................................... 17-64

File 3, kneel left, swing arms foreupward.................. 1-2

Lower arms sideward, palms upward....................... 3-4

Lunge left forward, swing arms upward..................     5-6

Straighten left knee, lower arms sideward and raise right

leg backward to balance stand........................ 7-8

Return movements.......................................... 9-16

Repeat right, left and right............................. 17-64

Files 1-5 start outward, files 2-4 start inward.

Exercise II

A.	Lunge left sideward, raise arms right sideward, left

arm bent in front of right shoulder................ 1-2

B.	1-4 turn left, kneel right, 3-4 arm circle right (look upward) ............................................... 3-4

C.	Swing arms foredownward and backward, lower trunk

forward ........................................... 5-6

D.	Return to position B................................ 7-8

E.	Change knee bending, lower trunk right, 3-4 arm

circle left.......................................... 9-10

F.	Return to position C................................. 11-12

G.	Return to position B................................. 13-14

H.	Return to starting position, lower arms.............. 15-16

Repeat all 3 times.....................................   17-64

File 3 repeat Exercise I of Group I 4 times............... 1-64

Exercise III, Shot Put and Discus Throw

Files 1-5, shot put exercise, starting outward, holding each

position 4 counts.................................... 1-12

Lower arms and leg to starting position.................. 13-14

Pause .................................................   15-16

Repeat inward, outward and inward....................  ..	17-64

Files 2-4, Discus throw, starting inward, holding each position 3 counts......................................  1-12

Step backward with the raised leg, straighten arms sideward, close feet and lower arms..................   13-14

Pause ................................................... 15-16

File 3, repeat Exercise II of Group I 4 times............. 1-64

(For full description of shot put and discus throw see Emil Rath, Gymnastic Dancing, Vol. 1).

Digitized by CjOOQle
703

Exercise IV, Pose I

File No. 3, Jump to side stride stand, arms sideward.....	1-2

File No. 2-4 1-4 turn inward and step to center with outer

foot ................................................... 1-2

File No. 4 swing to hand stand, No. 3 catch feet............ 5-6

File No. 1-5 Lunge inward, arms sideward.................... 5-6

File No. 1-5 1-4 turn inward, kneel, placing hand on hips

of 2-4............................................... 7-8

Hold position.............................................. 9-16

Return to starting position in open order................... 1-8

Pose II

File 2-4, face inward, bend kneels, place hands on floor,

straighten inner leg backward.......................... 9-10

Files 1-5, 1-4 turn inward and lunge forward, bend forward and grasp the feet of 2-4......................... 9-10

Files 1-5, raise the legs 2-4 obliquely upward............ 11-12

Files 2-4, swing outer leg upward to hand stand, legs in

stride position......................................  13-14

File 3, grasp feet of 2-4................................. 13-14

File 1-5, place outer hands on hips....................... 13-14

Pause .................................................... 15-16

Hold position............................................ 1-8

Return to starting position in open order.................. 9-16

Exercise V, Marching

Close files to the center................................ 1-4

Mark time................................................ 5-8

Form a star wheel left, by following first rank of fives

1 3-4 times around..................................... 9-36

First rank of fives march forward 12 steps................ 37-48

First rank of fives face right and in single file march 15

steps forward, all face front and halt................ 49-64

BOOK REVIEWS

“Fundamentals of Health” by T. Bruce Kirkpatrick & Alfred F. Huettner, Published by Ginn & Company, Boston, Mass., 1931. Clothbound, 8 l-4’rx5 1-2”, 576 pages inclusive. Price $3.80.

This text can be recommended for its thoroughness, which incidentally is not its only item of worth. The scope of the content ranges from the opening chapter on the Evolution of Man, through such topics as Genetics, Nutrition, Muscular Activity, Cardio-Respiratory Hygiene, Nervous and Emotional Adjustments, Sex; and concluding with Immunity and the consideration of the Public Health.

The background is predominantly biologic, when it is not physiologic. Both these aspects are justified in the preface as appeals to the interest of students of college grade. But, if there are correlated courses in Biology, Anatomy, and Physiolo-

Digitized by LjOOQle
704

gy available to these same students, then this treatment may defeat the purpose for which it is intended. A rational background for disease prevention is quite necessary in any hygiene text of college grade but at times this material appears to us to be a trifle prolix.

On the whole, however, it is an excellant text, well indexed, and containing a convenient glossary.

Howard- Leslie Conrad

The Football Quizzer for 1931 by William J. Sheeley. Published by A. S. Barnes and Company, New York. Paper bound 5”x7 1-2”, 100 pages. Price 50 cents.

The 1931 Football Quizzer is equal in quality to the standard set up by its predecessor in 1930. It offers an easy, interesting source for studying rules, and without question enables the reader to better understand and interpret them. Every rule is covered. An interesting and valuable supplement presents a complete collection of illustrative cases submitted by coaches and officials throughout the country. We heartily endorse this book for use by players, officials, and spectators.

Tests and Measurements in Physical Education by

John F. Bovard, Ph. D. and Frederick W. Cozens, Ph. D. Published by W. B. Saunders Company, Philadelphia, 1930. Cloth bound, 5”x8”, 364 pages. Price $2.75.

It is our opinion that this book is one of the major contributions to the literature of physical education.

There has been a long felt need for a book of this kind which would present the field of tests and measurements. The field covered includes the three phases of measurement, namely, the status of measurement, the tools of measurement, and the theory and practice of test administration. The essentials in statistical formulae and methods which are necessary in the construction of tests are presented in simple and readable manner.

The information is important not only to those who wish to construct tests and to conduct scientific investigation in physical education, but to all physical educators who wish to be worthy members of the profession. A knowledge of this material is essential to an understanding of the work done by research workers, the men and women on whom we must depend for discovering the laws, the principles, and the fundamentals necessary in the ultimate establishment of physical education on a scientific basis.

We have no hesitation in saying that if every physical education teacher and student were to absorb the contents of this book, physical education would not only advance by leaps and bounds within one year, but it would gain in equal degree a higher place in the estimation of educators.

We all owe it to ourselves and to our profession to add this work to our book shelves and to make frequent reference to it.

Digitized by ^ooQle
705

“Character Education” by Germane and Germane, Cloth-bound, 510pp. Published by Silver Burdett & Company, New York, 1929.

The development of good character is an outstanding aim in education. Teachers and administrators in physical education have for years made sweeping claims concerning the character training values in their field of activity. While there is undoubtedly much truth in these claims, there is also much which can not be defended in the light of accepted psychological and sociological principles. The reviewer has just read more than fifty examination papers written by candidates for positions as teachers in physical education in most of which the traditional list of character values were given,—the list which most of us have learned and can repeat so glibly.

There appears to be a great need for careful study in the field of character education. If our sincerity, our scientific attitude, and our understanding of the problem are to gain and hold the respect of educators such study should be undertaken at once. During the past few years a gratifying number of articles written by leading thinkers in our field have appeared in the professional journals. These are recommended to our readers along with books and articles by other writers who have enriched the literature on the subject.

Character education, by Germane and Germane, will be found especially helpful and interesting. The primary purpose of the book, as stated by the authors, “is to present a theory and practice of character building by means of a program designed to enable the home and the school to cooperate more intelligently and zealously”. The information contained in the book was derived largely from a series of experiments, investigations, and projects carried out in sixteen cities and thirty-one rural communities with 915 teachers and 5,463 parents cooperating for three years.

Part I is devoted to the psychological and sociological principles which the authors think will be of greatest help to teachers and parents. Part II is devoted to a plan of teacher and parent cooperation in the study of children and the character problems involved in such a study. We recommend the book to all teachers and parents.

Physique and Intellect. Donald G. Patterson, University of Minnesota. Published by the Century Company, October, 1930. 304 pages.

“Such questions as adjusting the academic load to fit the pupil and developing a wise promotion policy insuring that the mental as well as the physical powers of each child will not be overtaxed have long been of vital concern to the schoolman. These questions, in many quarters, have been approached on the basis of a belief in an intimate relation between physical and mental traits. The pedagogical importance of proper physical development has likewise been stressed. Many school organization schemes have

Digitized by ^.ooQle
706

been based in part on the asserted correlation between physical condition and health on the one hand, and mental development on the other. Unified plans and procedures, however, have not resulted, primarily because no critical synthesis of the scientific literature exists to serve as a guide. The educational and pedagogical significance of physique remains in an unsatisfactory state because of the uncertainty surrounding the topic viewed from the strict standpoint of science.” The above quotation from the opening chapter of Physique and Intellect indicates that this comprehensive and critical synthesis was undertaken with the needs of educators in mind.

The purpose of the book is to show the present status of scientific knowledge regarding the relation between physical traits in both children and adults, and to reveal to what extent popular beliefs regarding the physical basis of mind are true. The book assembles and presents as much of the original quantitative evidence as possible (52 tables are included).

Perhaps a few selected quotations will best indicate the contents. “It is apparent that the pedagogical and educational significance of physical size is far less than early students and even some of our contemporary writers have assumed.” “Our detailed survey of available quantitative evidence has demonstrated that prevalent notions regarding the intimacy of the relationship between physical traits and intellect have been greatly exaggerated. Search in the realm of gross anatomy for a physical correlate of intellect has yielded uniformly negative results. It appears that such structural characteristics as height and weight are correlated only slightly with intelligence, narrowly defined. Even measurements of head size and shape are found to be relatively independently variable with respect to intellect, and skeletal development measured by precise X-ray photography yields either zero or low correlations with intelligence. The same may be said of dentition. Physiological development, measured in terms of pubescence, is found to be relatively unrelated, to mental development, and so are complicated morphological indices of body build.

“A more surprising finding is the negative trend of the evidence with respect to mental correlates of ordinary physical defects and certain presumably deleterious physical conditions. . . . The evidence seems quite clear that mental development proceeds in relative independence of physical condition except when disease processes or injuries directly attack the central nervous system, especially the higher centers.

“The suggestion is frequently encountered that physical traits may be found associated to a greater extent with temperament than with intellect. Even here, however, little optimism is justified. An intimate connection between body build and temperament has not been disclosed. . . .

“The facts in the preceding chapters of this book should go a long way toward counteracting the view that there is a functional unity between mind and body. . . .

Digitized by v^ooQle
707

"Attention must be shifted from such structural characteristics as height, anatomical development, dentition, body build, and even size and shape of head to the central nervous system,—especially the cortex cerebri. There is every reason to believe that improved methods of studying the functional relationship between nervous system and behavior will disclose the long-sought-for physical basis of intellect.”

This book is the third in the newly established Century Psychology Series, edited by Dr. R. M. Elliott.—Reprint of review in Phi DeUa	Kappan.

"The History of Physical Education In Colleges For Women” by Dorothy S. Ainsworth, Clothbound, 116 pages, 6”x 9 1-2”, 19 illustrations. A. S. Barnes & Co. N. Y., 1930, Price $2.00.

This is a most delightful and valuable book which will provide interesting reading to all teachers of physical education. Beginning with a discussion of women’s activities during the Colonial Period, the author takes us through “the somewhat easy-going days of calisthenics and light gymnastics” into the present era when physical education is establishing itself upon a more scientific basis.

The colleges included in the study which provided the material for this history are Mt. Holyoke, Rockford, Elmira, Vassar, Wells, Mills, Smith, Wellesley, Radcliffe, Bryn Mawr, Goucher, and Barnard.

This book makes an important addition to the literature on the history of physical education.

“Archery Simplified” by Phillip Rounsevelle, 120 pages, 69 illustrations, size 8 vo., clothbound, price $2.00. A. S. Barnes & Co., N. Y., 1931.

This book on archery was written by one who has had extensive experience “in making bows and arrows, in shooting with them at the largest tournaments in America, in friendship with leading archers of this country and England, whose methods he has studied closely, and in teaching the art of archery to hundreds of beginners”.

We are pleased to recommend this fine work to all who are interested in the technique of shooting or in teaching it to others, or who merely wish to obtain a knowledge of this interesting type of physical activity. A generous number of excellent illustrations add much to the value of the book. The chapter on equipment, including its care and repair, provides many valuable suggestions which will be gratefully received by many readers.
708

News, notes and comments

4-----------------------	.	“	"	♦

Rowing as a sport for women is gaining rapidly in Germany. Recent reports show that the women’s rowing clubs have over 6,000 active participants.

During 1930 a research study was conducted in a Russian mill devoted to weaving in order to find out if physical training influenced production. One group of workers took part in skiing and gymnastics in a gymnasium. The skiing took place two or three times a week from 20 to 90 minutes, the gymnastics took place twice a week and lasted one hour a lesson. During warm weather track and field work replaced skiing. Games formed a prominent part of the gymnastic work. A control group was used to check up the accomplishments and the labor output. After six months of training the physical education group increased its monthly labor output over the control group from 2.67 to 3.23 per cent.

In an article entitled “Light and Physical Education” published in the Leibesuebungen Dr. Geis, of Dresden calls attention to the prophylactic value of ball games because of the exercise these give the eyes in following the flight of a ball. He says that school work as a whole conduces to near sightedness; that after the eyeball once has assumed an egglike form no exercises can restore the spherical form. Ball games that demand accurate distance seeing are the best forms of preventive work that the school has at its disposal for strengthening the eyes, according to Dr. Geis.

An international sport festival is planned for 1932 in Palestine by the Maccabi-intemational federation. Jewish organizations of the world are to be invited to participate. Recently a division of physical education was formed in the department of public welfare of Palestine.

In an article on “Studies On The Self-Disinfecting Power Of The Skin,” Norton and Novy make the following summary: Bacteria applied to the skin diminish in numbers very rapidly. This is particularly noticeable the first 10 minutes. In the experiments reported, B. prodgiosus was used as the test organism.

Digitized by

Google
709

Similar results are obtained with inert materials such as glass slides, filter paper, and tanned hide.

The most important factor involved appears to be moisture. Marked disappearance of organisms was coincident with apparent dryness of the surface. On surfaces kept moist bacteria remain viable for much longer periods than when the surfaces are allowed to dry.

These experiments fail to indicate any inherent germicidal power of living skin.—Journal of Public Health.

Dr. Aristides Agramonte, who died at the age of 63 on August 17, was the last surviving member of the U. S. Army Commission which solved the problem of yellow fever transmission and its control.

The school at Minburn, Iowa, will soon have the use, for physical training and athletic purposes, of the new community hall which is being built in connection with the school building. The addition will be about 43-ft. by 83-ft. with a 20-ft. ceiling. A stage in the south end will be very helpful in school and community activities.

A COMMON HUMIDITY ERROR

Many people who should know better seem to have surprisingly vague, if not even confused, ideas about humidity, and where there is much smoke there generally is some fire. Those who have to do with the measurement of humidity would insist, if questioned, that they know perfectly well what the terms “absolute humidity’' and ‘Relative humidity” properly mean. Perhaps they do; nevertheless many, if they should condescend to answer at all, would say, in substance, that absolute humidity is the mass of water vapor present per unit volume of the air, and relative humidity the ratio of the amount of water vapor present to the amount necessary to saturate the air at the same temperature.

That sounds familiar and orthodox, but it reveals confusion at best, for the air has nothing to do with either absolute humidity, properly defined as the mass of water vapor per unit volume (of space, not air), or relative humidity—the ratio of the mass of water vapor present per unit volume (of space) to that which would saturate a unit volume at the same temperature. Be' certain not to add “and same pressure,” which we sometimes hear, for that refers to the atmosphere, which, as just stated, has nothing to do with the phenomenon in question.

Digitized by LjOOQle
710

There is, however, one very useful humidity concept that does involve the air, namely, the mass of water vapor per unit mass of humid air. This is called “specific humidity.”

But entirely apart from definitions we often see and hear expressions about the air taking up water vapor and about the great avidity of warm air for water vapor. Now, as a matter of fact, the air does not “take up” water vapor—it is not a sponge; and warm air has no avidity, chemical or other kind, for water vapor. All the air does in this connection is to slow down the rate of evaporation and diffusion. It is not the air but the space, air or no air substantially alike (a shade better without the air), that has the vapor capacity. Neither is it the temperature of the air but the temperature of the vapor (again air or no air) that determines the amount of water vapor per unit volume necessary to produce saturation.

Most of us say the air takes up water vapor. Let us forget it, if we can, and say space instead, as that is what we mean, if we understand the phenomenon aright.—W. J. Humphreys in Monthly Weather Review, July, 1931.

Heart Disease and Mental Strain—Observant clinicians have frequently noted the tragic crises in cardiovascular cases, when a man is stricken, not from running for a car or climbing a flight of steps, or horseback riding, or dancing, but from some intensive strain in a directors’ meeting or a business conference, requiring unusual concentration on problems involving great responsibility or intensive intellectual analysis.

Dr. Carey P. McCord at a recent meeting of the Association of Life Insurance Medical Directors presented the results of clinical investigations sponsored by The Heart Council of Cincinnati as to cardiac conditions in various types of employment. He said:

The concept that work is not a producer of heart and blood vessel degeneration is almost entirely linked up with excessive muscular work on a foot-pound basis, such as may arise in the ditch digger, the boiler maker, the football player, or the Olympic runner. It is granted that scant proof exists that such work leads to cardiovascular harm. On the other hand, there are forms of work, as well as other aspects of human life, that lead to continual trauma or indignities to the autonomic nervous system that so influence the functions of visceral tissues as to culminate in organic changes. It is the thesis of this paper that the cardiovascular system may be organically involved in this process.

Referring to the particularly high rate of cardiovascular disease among train dispatchers, Dr. McCord says;

Digitized by ^.ooQle
711

. . .We are prompted to believe, from all our findings, that portions of this unusual extent of organic cardiovascular abnormality are the results of prolonged, overwhelming mental strain— in short impairment from menial trauma.

While it may be true, in a physical sense, that a healthy heart cannot be strained, we are inclined to believe that this is not the case in so far as the autonomic nervous system is concerned. With blood pressures and pulse rates responding quickly to psychic factors, there exists a situation in which mechanical disturbance can supervene and do actual physical damage.—How to Live, 14, 7: 1-2 (July), 1931. E. R. H. in Journal of Public Health.

♦ ---------------------------------- ♦

Health education notes \

»> - ■ ♦

The Weak Foot.—Daniels, in the U. S. Veterans Bureau Med. B. states that the principal cause of weak foot in adults is constant weight bearing, and it is often seen in the policeman, the soldier, the nurse, the waitress, the motorman and the postman. As the basis of the condition there is a disproportion between the weight to be borne and the muscular power that bears it. Poorly shaped shoes are the main cause, especially shoes that hold the front part of the foot in the everted position, thus causing a constant strain on the plantar fascia and ligaments. By this constant pull on the soft parts the arch is gradually lowered, and during this process the patient is in constant pain, like that from a sprained joint. The forepart of the foot is everted, the midtarsal joint is twisted inward, there is constant strain on the pillars of the arch, there is an inward rolling and a dropping of the inside of the foot, the internal melleolus becomes prominent, and a condition similar to knock knee, i. e., knock ankle, is produced. There are also changes in the os calcis, scaphoid, cuboid and astragalus, which is dropped from above to the inside of the os calcis. The first symptom noted is discomfort on standing or walking. The treatment depends on the land and severity of the case. A mildly strained foot should be strapped in corrected position with adhesive plaster. The straps should be carried well up in the leg. Later, the patient should be given exercise to strengthen the soft parts and should be fitted with proper shoes. He could be taught to walk with the foot turned in, to relieve any tension on the plantar fascia and other soft parts. Diming the acute stage, if the feet are not strapped, contrast baths will often give the patient considerable relief. The exercises to be given consist of simple movements

Digitized by kjOOQle
712

of the heel and two, rocking out on the outer border; and, with the patient sitting cross-legged, he should be told to rotate the foot inward and downward in a circular motion with as much power as he can use. A shoe should be selected which will fit snugly from the heel to the midtarsal joint, so that from that point forward the patient will have full room but not too much. The inner border should be straight or turned in a little, depending on the rigidity of the foot. It should have a steel shank and a stiff leather counter to support the arch and, in the more severe cases, may be fitted with a Thomas heel with or without a wedge on the inner border, to throw the weight on the outer side of the foot, where it belongs. For arch supports the author prefers the all leather; or steel padded with leather may be used in some cases if the shoes are properly shaped. More can be done by wearing the properly shaped shoe than by any other method of treatment.

Twelve Points in Noise Abatement.—The New York Noise Abatement Commission has made public “twelve silent points” which every citizen may use to abate noise:

1.	Radio loud speakers in front of shops are forbidden- by city ordinance. If a citizen is disturbed by sucn illegally operated loud speakers, it is his duty to notify tne police officer on the beat or the precinct headquarters.

2.	Loud or excessive noise from radios and other amplifying devices that disturb the “comfort, quiet or repose of persons” in the neighborhood are prohibited by a section of the Sanitary Code. This enables the person disturbed to complain to the health department, specifying the exact place and the times of the disturbance.

3.	You may stop noisy trucks and deliveries by notifying the police department of the name of the firm operating the noisy vehicle and, if possible, giving the license number of the vehicle itself.

4.	If a company in your vicinity disturbs you by blowing a whistle to call its employees to work, notify the health department.

5.	Except on the Fourth of July, it is against the law to discharge any fireworks without a license. Since cap pistols are included, anyone disturbed by the noise of these dangerous toys should notify the police.

6.	The maintenance of a noisy animal or bird is prohibited by the Sanitary Code. Those disturbed should notify the health department.

7.	If buildiag operations are unnecessarily noisy, the health department should be notified. A sanitary inspector will be

Digitized by Google
713

assigned to attempt to come to some agreement with the contractor that will lessen the noise.

8.	In the case of clatter produced by ash and garbage collection, those disturbed should notify the sanitation department or, in case the collection is handled by a private company, the police.

9.	When milk delivery is unduly noisy, the individual milk companies should be notified or the policeman on the beat ad-vised of the time and place of the disturbance.

10.	When doormen’s whistles cause annoyance, the matter should first be taken up with the superintendent of the building and then, if there is no response, with the police department.

11.	Tooting of automobile horns to call the attention of people within doors should be reported to the policeman on the beat.

12.	If you wish further information on noise and its control, the Noise Abatement Commission asks you to send a letter stating your problem to its office in the health department building, 505 Pearl Street.

The Noise Abatement Commission was organized to discover the facts about city noise, to bring these facts to the attention of the public and to work out procedure by which the noise could be abated. It is not the function of the commission to enforce laws.

Tendon Ruptures.—Platt, in the British Medical Journal divides tendon ruptures into two main groups: 1. The common rupture, produced by the sudden powerful overstretching of a muscle already in a state of contraction. Well known examples of this type are disinsertion of the extensor tendons of the fingers, and ruptures of the achilles tendon rectus femoris, and ligamen-tum patellae. 2. A less common and more insidious form of rupture (spontaneous rupture) seen in certain tendons which occupy a bony groove. In these circumstances the rupture is determined by a preexisting adhesion of the tendon, which gradually becomes attenuated and ultimately snaps across in response to a comparatively trivial violence. The tendons most liable to rupture by this process of attrition are the extensor longus policies and the long head of the biceps. Tendon ruptures may also be classified according to the site of the tear, which may take place (a) at the musculotendinous junction, (b) in the tendon itself, or (c) at the point of insertion. Tears in the neighborhood of the musculotendinous junction are almost invariably incomplete and from a functional standpoint are equivalent to partial tears of the muscle belly (lesions usually included under the generic title "strain”). The author considers mainly the prob-
714

lems of early diagnosis and operative repair in some of the more important complete ruptures. The subject is illustrated by references to typical tendon ruptures selected from his own cases.

Coffee as a Stimulant During Games. In England it is usual to provide lemons as a stimulant for the exhausted football players in the pause at the middle of the game. But Dr. Robert Hutchinson, a writer on dietetics and on other subjects, recommends a cup of hot sweet coffee. In reply to correspondence in the Times on the subject, he points out that the caffeine of coffee acts as a nerve stimulant, abolishing fatigue and speeding up nervous reactions, while the sugar serves as a muscle food from which fresh energy can be quickly extracted. He holds that the hot sweet coffee is of much more use to an exhausted player than the conventional lemon.

Noisy Trucks a Menace to Health.—Noisy trucks are a “serious menace to health” and must be driven off the streets of New York, according' to Edward F. Brown, director of the Noise Abatement Commission, it is reported. In tests made. May 18, 86 per cent of the trucks tested were found defective, and most of the noise was caused by loose or badly adjusted parts which could have been fixed. Scientists for the Western Electric Company, measuring the noise given out by each truck, found the average noise level was 81 decibels, a decibel being the smallest change that the ear can detect in a level of sound. Three airplanes flying over the city together made only 62 decibels. The increasing practice of night trucking makes it necessary for truck owners to cooperate with the city.

Cod Liver Oil and Vitamins.—Harris states that from a consideration of the history of the vitamins, and of the train of idiosyncrasies therein entailed, from color reaction, the chemistry of bone and the kaleidoscopic changes of view stated by interested manufacturers, from the theory of the role of the vitamins in bone formation and from the theory of the peculiar efficacy of cod liver oil in the treatment of rickets, there emerges this one fact: The most reliable weapon in the treatment of rickets is cod liver oil.

Value of Mosquito Traps.—Bath in “Tropical Medicine” is of the opinion that the mosquito trap is going to prove of great value in research work. Considering the great numbers of Anopheles that a few traps have destroyed in a short period of time, he is strongly convinced of its practical value as an im-

Digitized by t^ooQle
715

portant antimalarial measure. He believes that mosquito traps will eventually be built into houses as an essential part of the screening on dwellings in unsanitated areas.

Colds.—Colds cost the United States more than a billion dollars each year, in the opinion of Dr. James J. King, writing in Hygeia. Statistics show that an average of one and a half days per worker are lost because of colds, making a total of 90,000,000 days or about $500,000,000. The added cost of medical care and the inefficiency following a cold will easily add up another half billion.

Though the germ that causes colds has never been discovered microscopically, doctors have learned that it is omnipresent and it sets to work in the body whenever the resistance is low. When the system is filled with poisons that are due to the lack of proper elimination from the skin, the kidneys, lungs and intestines, and to fatigue, a cold is likely to make headway.

Plenty of rest, good food and sunshine are the best preventive measures. The sun has long been worshiped by the natives in Mexico and Peru for its beneficial effect on the body. The practice of wearing a minimum of clothing today is in harmony with this belief and the practice is a splendid one.

Sinus disease may be one of the sequels of a cold. The infection lodges in one of the sinuses, or cavities of the head—including the antrum, ethmoid, sphenoid and frontal sinuses. The most common sinus infection is in the antrum, but a more serious complication is the frontal infection, which produces severe pain above the eyes. When the pain has established its course it returns each day with such regularity that a clock may be regulated by it.

Heart Disease in Early Life.—Heart disease continues to increase in importance as a cause of death. Figures recently compiled by the Public Health Service indicate that last year, in a group of states with approximately 25,000,000 population, the death rate from heart disease was 228 per hundred thousand. This is compared with rates of 106 from kidney disease, 105 from cancer and 100 from pneumonia. To this high rate various factors contribute, among them the conservation of life in the early age groups and the changing age composition of the population. Yet such explanations do not explain completely, especially when Dr. Clark emphasizes that “heart disease is particularly a disease of early life.” About 75 per cent of all cases of heart disease, he asserts, develop in children under 10 years of age. Rheumatic infections are of the first importance in producing heart lesions in this age group. Unfortunately, a well planned preventive campaign must await more satisfactory knowledge

Digitized by CjOOQle
716

of the etiology of rheumatism. On the basis of available knowledge it can be asserted that “growing pains” should no longer be taken lightly, and that in all children adenoids, tonsils 'and teeth should be kept under close supervision. Add to these precautions the best of care in convalescence after diseases of childhood, and there is little more that the family physician can do to prevent the onset of heart disease. The school nurse can extend the protecting arm of preventive medicine a further stage by her supervision in the schools and her follow-up work in the homes, both in bringing patients to the physician and in seeing that his instructions are obeyed.

“DOLLAR

60 FORTH LIKE

DAVID!**

When David went forth to fight the enemy of his people with a pebble in a sling, the hills and plains rang with laughter.

But when the scornful Goliath lay harmless at the victor's feet, David’s people had found a new king.

Your people are threatened with a Goliath today—a merciless giant who wants to spread hunger and illness and despair among you.

You have a “David’s Dollar’’ to send against Goliath.

Don’t laugh at that dollar. It is a king in disguise—a gentle, kindly king, but mighty in wrath against the common enemy.

The battle of David’s Dollars will be fought this Winter. You can help win it—and the whole nation

The Presidents Organization on Unemployment Relief

WALTER S. GIFFORD, Director

will be lifted by the thrill of a common achievement.

Hunt in your pockets, in your savings bank, in your heart, and see how many David’s Dollars you can find.

Put them together and take them to those community groups—whether they be the established welfare and relief organizations, the community chest, or a special emergency committee — which have set themselves the task of protecting your people from the threat of Goliath.

Say to them, “Dollars, go forth like David, and slay the giant.”

And, in the love and sympathy and kindness which send those dollars to the battle, your people, too, will find a new king.

Committee On Mobilization of Relief Resources

OWEN D. YOUNG, Chairman

The President98 Organization on Unemployment Relief is non-political and nonsectarian. Its purpose is to aid local welfare and relief agencies everywhere to provide for local needs. All facilities for the nation-wide program, including this advertisement have been furnished to the Committee without cost.

Digitized by