MIND AND BODY

Vol. 23.	JUNE, 1)16	No.	25*

Published By THE TURNER PUBLISHING COMPANY, New Ulm, Minn.

Minneapolis Office: 207 So. 6th Street, Minneapolis, Minn.

EDITORIAL COMMITTEE:	'

WM. E. DAY, Director Physical Education, Public Schools, Salt Lak6 City, Utah. EMIL RATH, Normal College, Indianapolis, Ind.

D. M. FERD. KROGH, M. D., Public Schools, Newark, N. J.

CARL L. SCHRADER, c. o. Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. WM. A. STECHER, Managing Editor, Germantown, Phil., Pa.

Editorial communications are to be sent to WM. A. STECHER, 72 W. Johnson St., Germantown, Phil., Pa. Subscription paymants should be made to the Minneapolis office.

Offered at the Postoffice at New Ulm, Minnesota as second class mail matter. Ap-plication for second class privileges pending.

j ORIGINAL ARTICLES AND REPRINTS j

THE DANGERS OF DROWNING WHEN SWIMMING.

Translated by Dr. D. V. BESSER, Philadelphia Public Schools.

Every year the daily newspapers report the drowning of bathers. If someone ventures into deep water without having acquired the art of swimming, in most cases this terminates disastrously to the venturesome person. Many times, however, it happens that even excel ent swimme s perish in the water. Such happenings warn the cautious, and it is only proper to investigate the causes which lead to such disasters. The following is a translation of an article which appeared recently in the “Swiss Tumzeitung.” Numerous drownings could have been avoided, if the victims had been more cautious or more familiar with the bathing place. Bathers, as well as the public generally are under the impression that most d ownings are caused by paralysis, cramps, etc.; These causes, in reality, are the exceptions, and the underlying cause is seldom understood.

In some particular instances it is true, that a swimmer lost his strength or had an attack of muscular cramps which interfered with his swimming. This alone should not neccessarily lead to

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 146 —

drowning; very likely the victims would still be able to call for help. Most of them, however, disappear without a sound and immediately sink to the bottom. This noiseless sinking and the absence of every visible outer or inner change of the drowned person gives rise in the public's mind to the thought that the direct cause of death in most cases is paralysis. In reality an every day happening occurred that really caused the drowning, namely: “choking”. Everybody knows how easy it is to “choke”. For instance a foreign substance enters the glottis, or the “wind pipe”. Immediately a violent irritation throws the air passage into spasms, and with lightning-like rapidity the glottis closes. In such a case the inhaling of air is impossible; only forceful exhalation takes place. The efforts of the air passages to expel foreign substances by forceful coughing are prompt and energetic. Now there is a wise factor of safety that nature has provided; this is, persons breathing normally, do not exhale the entire air in the lungs, but retain a certain part of it. There always is residual air in the lungs. Should it happen, in a case of choking, that this residual air is sufficient to expel the obstruction by forceful coughing, even if the irritant should only be water, then the larynx again becomes normal and the attack ceases. If, however, the victim has spent all his residual air without expelling the obstruction, the inhaling of air becomes impossible and results in acute asphyxiation. Should a swimmer, who is entirely out of breath, accidentally get water in his throat, the onset of laryngeal cramps would render him unable to call for help. Through involuntary coughing and swallowing he endeavors to regain his breath, but in most cases fear and breathlessness make matters worse. Add to this the loss of the residual air, that was stored in the swimmer’s lungs, and it will at once become apparent that his swimming ability will gradually diminish. Following this, the fear of death and extreme breathlessness will rapidly cause swooning. As a rule this leads to the doom of the bather and he perishes miserably. This is the noiseless sinking which we erroneously attribute to paralysis, but which in fact is due to asphyxiation. The victim sinks without a sound, because he is powerless to call for help.

To avoid “choking” in turbulent water the swimmer should use the sidestroke. When, however, the waves are high and regular, either caused by a rolling sea or by the passing of a steamer, then a swimmer must meet the approaching waves by placing himself in a vertical position, and with powerful arm and leg movements rise above the summit of the waves.

Swimming, shortly after meals, becomes dangerous, because

Digitized by LjOoq le
— 147 —

cold bathing gives rise to violent vomiting. Under normal conditions vomiting on land is not without danger, while in the water the danger increases.

Should it happen that a swimmer ventures far out into the water and is seized with muscular cramps, although he may be in danger of drowning, he is not lost so long as he possesses self-control and observes the necessary precautions. He should at once stop all swimming motions and remain passive. Under no circumstances should the arms be raised out of the water. They should be kept below the waterline and dog paddling imitated, provided the arms are not attacked by cramps. Another point of importance is that the swimmer should fill his lungs with as much air as possible by short exhalations and inhalations, and at intervals he should call for help. Should his arms and his legs be attacked by muscular cramps, he will be able to keep his face out of the water by means of the already mentioned breathing technique, whereby the water will carry his body without any swimming motions. He must avoid "swallowing water” and raising his arms.

It is a fact that thin persons are more in danger of drowning than fat ones, because corpulent people float without help, especially in salt water. My own experience qualifies me to make the following statement:	It seldom happens that both legs, or

arms and legs are simultaneously attacked by cramps. If one or both legs are attacked the swimmer should immediately turn on his back and float. This has the great advantage that he can breathe deeply and quietly and keep his face well out of water.

By floating on his back the swimmer gains another advantage, namely, he can make use of his arms. To avoid sinking a deep breath should always precede a stroke with the arms; by these means, it is possible to cover a large distance without the help of the legs.

(Last summer an attack of muscular cramps compelled the author to cover a distance of more than 300 meters in the described manner.)

Muscle cramps arise mainly during endurance swims; especially when the water is rather cool. Under these conditions the body loses too much heat, which is accompanied by chills and by a weakened resisting power. For the safety of the swimmer, no endurance swims should be undertaken in water below 20 degrees centigrade. Frequent endurance swims of strenuous types are not recommended by physicians. Protracted loss of bodily heat gradually weakens the system, and an overworked and tired

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 148 —

heart finally becomes enlarged, leading to what is known as an “athletic heart.”

Notwithstanding the enormous loss of vigor during a lively swim, amounting to about 3.5 times more than in mountain climbing, the pulse rate is generally 135 per minute. Very likely this is the consequence of slow breathing. The respiration of a swimmer, as a rule, is slow and deep, and this perceptibly influences the venous circulation by which the heart beats increase in volume and vigor but not in frequency. Consequently, the more pronounced contractions of the heart force a greater volume of blood into the circulatory system, thus correspondingly increasing the work of the heart. Rational swimming is therefore a strong and healthy stimulus for a sound heart.

The hygenic value of a fresh water or salt water bath is generally exaggerated. Thin people, nervous people and persons who easily contract chills after bathing, should not bathe except when the temperature of the water is above 20 degrees centigrade. Frequent cold bathing in winter, especially a daily cold bath, is not conducive to good health; in reality, it shows poor judgment. Many eccentric persons have paid dearly for such questionable hobbies ' and whims.—A. M.

NEW WORLD’S HURDLE MARK

The world’s record in the 120-yard high hurdles was broken at the Missouri-Iowa State College dual meet May 6 at Columbia, Mo. when P. Simpson, the Missouri star, made a mark of 14-45 seconds. Simpson also was the individual point winner, 20 tallies being placed to his credit.

Gov. Whitman of New York State has finally signed the Walsh-Slater bill which provides that:

1.	The Board of Regents inaugurate a course of compulsory physical training for all public and private school pupils more than 8 years old.

2.	There be compulsory military training of all boys of the State between 16 and 19 years of age, except those regularly employed as a means of livelihood. This course is to be given after school hours and provision is made for summer camps.

Digitized by ^.ooQle
— 149 —

A FOUR YEARS’ COURSE OF STUDY IN PHYSICAL TRAINING FOR BOYS’ AND GIRLS’ HIGH SCHOOLS.*

(Continued)

Board of Public Education of Philadelphia.

SECOND YEAR.

I.	TACTICS.

A.	General Tactics.

1.	Review the tactics of the preceding year.

2.	Review the marching movements at a run.

3.	In single ranks: Forming and transforming in the ranks (from front to flank and vice versa.)

B.	Special Tactics.

School of the Squad.

A squad consists of 8 pupils formed in double rank.

1.	Review the tactics of the preceding year.

2.	Facings, steps, marching like in the school of the soldier.

3.	Form squads, Count Off.

4.	Right (left), Dress. Front.

5.	When marching: Guide right (left).

6.	At a halt

(a)	Take interval, To the right (left),March. Squad, Halt.

(b)	Assemble to the right (left), March.

7.	When at a halt and having counted off:

(a)	Take distance, March. Squad, Halt.

(b)	Assemble, March.

Marching.

8.	Right (left) oblique, March. Forward, March (or Halt).

9.	To turn on a moving pivot:

(a)	Right (left) turn, March.

(b)	Right (left) half turn, March.

10.	To turn on a fixed pivot:	(a)	Squad	right	(left),	March.

11.	Being in line, to turn about and march: Squad right (left)

' about, March.

II. FREE EXERCISES The essential exercises are the same as indicated for the first year.

Co-ordinations.

(a)	Review the co-ordinations of the first year.

* All rights reserved.

Digitized by

Google
— 150 —

(b)	Four-movement sequences of one body-part.

(c)	Four-movement sequences of two parts of the" body, the movements first in the same direction and later in opposite directions.

(d)	Club-swinging.

1.	Arm circles with one and with both arms forward and back-

ward, on the opposite side of the body.

2.	Arm and hand circles outward and inward, the hand circles in front and rear of thighs, later in front and rear of the

anus raised upward.

3.	Arm and hand circles forward with one and with both arms,

the arm circle at the opposite side of the body, the hand circle at the shoulder.

4.	Groups of easy exercises, to be swung to music.

(NOTE—Where appropriate, combine the club exercises with trunk bending, lunging, kneebending, etc.)

III.	RHYTHMIC STEPS.

A.	Marching Steps.

(1)	Marching in common time and in fast time.

(2)	Leg movements while marching and running.

(3)	Marching with two- and four-movement arm exercises, a movement on the first of four (two) steps.

B.	Dancing Steps.

(1)	Review the steps of the preceding grade in the four principal rhythms, i. e., (a) Polka rhythm, (b) Mazurka rhythm, (c) Schottische rhythm, (d) Waltz rhythm.

(2)	Alternate marching steps with dancing steps.

(3)	Combine two steps of like rhythm.

C.	Appropriate Character and Folk Dances.

IV.	GAMES. TRACK AND FIELD WORK. MISCELLANEOUS

ACTIVITIES.

A.	Games.

1.	Develop the finer points of the team games of the preceding

grades.

2.	Increase the difficulty of the more vigorous gymnastic

games.

B.	Track and Field Events.

1.	Review previous events; work for the correct form.

2.	Low hurdles, pole vault.

3.	Shot-put (8 lbs.), hurlball (4 lbs).

4.	Endurance runs, 4 to 8 minutes.

Digitized by LjOOQle
151 —

C.	Miscellaneous Activities.

1.	Read the remarks under this heading in the first year's work. Make it your business to find out something definite about every boy's outdoor life. Where necessary, speak to the boys who need to form the habit of sane outdoor recreative activity.

V.	APPARATUS WORK.

Review the apparatus work of the first grade.

Horizontal Bar—Low Bar.

Knee-circle forward. Crotch-circle backward. Underswing from stand and support. Easy vaults at the end of exercises.

Head- and Jump High.

Turn over backward; hip and knee-circles; swinging in the knee-hang; acquiring the swing-start (on the high bar).

Parallel Bars. Low Bar (for advanced squads, high bar).

Vaults from the seat in the middle of the bars, without and with turns. Exercises in the straight arm support. Roll forward from a seat to a straddle seat. Shoulder stand.

Side Horse.

Vaults from the stand and from the support. Leg-circles inward and outward. Scissors forward. Easy vaults at the end of exercises.

Long Horse.

Support-lying; straddle-vault dismount; scissors backward and forward; vaults from the side; vaults with quarter turns.

Rings.

Head-high.—Leg exercises in the straight and in the inverted hang. Turn-over; cut-off (one leg, one hand); leg exercises in the bent-arm hang.

Jump-high.—Pendulum swings, half turns at end of swing. Arm and leg exercises while swinging.

Poles and Ropes.

Hand-over-hand from a stand, distance 10 feet. Between two poles: inverted hang and turn-over backward, also forward, with added leg movements; pendulum swing with leg positions. Pendulum vaults.

Horizontal Ladder, also Boom.

Hanging with leg exercises (straight and bent arms). Traveling on beams and rounds with leg positions (straight and bent arms).

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 152 —

Traveling Rings.

Travel the entire distance—whole turn of body between each two rings.

Balance Beams.

Running and skipping on the beam. Arm and leg movements in the support. Mounts, dismounts and vaults.

Tumbling.

Head stand with assistance. Cart wheel. Diving.

(To be continued).

RELATIVE MERITS OF TURF, CLAY AND ASPHALT TENNIS COURTS.

By J. J. ARMSTRONG

The question is frequently asked by outsiders as to why the tennis expert should prefer to play upon a turf court rather than a clay or asphalt surface. To the layman the bound of the ball on an even, hard surface, such as is offered on clay or asphalt, should have its advantages over that of the turf court, inasmuch as the chances of receiving bad bounces would be slighter. But this feature in favor of the clay court is offset by many disadvantages which are only brought home to a person through experience.

It is true that a turf court, being subject to the use of spikes, is likely to become cutup during a match and so present a rough surface. And nothing is more exasperating to a player than to misjudge the bound of a ball through no fault of his own. But for championship matches a turf court generally has been dutifully cared for, so there is little reason for us to think that the surface would be cut up to such an extent as to render accurate judgment of a bound impossible. Before the length of the spike to be used by players was ruled upon by the National Association, this feature of the turf mangling was a most important one, but with the present quarter-inch spike in use it is fair to state that a first-class turf court will not be unmercifully cut up during the progress of a match.

One of the most important things for the expert player to watch out for in the course of his summer’s tennis is that his feet are well cared for. It is easy for one to see how a turf surface would aid him in this, inasmuch as there would be more resiliency attached to it than could be found on clay or asphalt. It has been said that the Californians wear from two to three pairs of heavy woolen socks while playing on asphalt courts, so as not to blister their feet. When they come East to our tournaments they discard

Digitized by Google
— 153 —

one or two pairs of their pedal raiment, which relieves them not a little of a burdensome supply of clothing. Clay is nearly as hard on a player's feet as asphalt. Both surfaces reflect the heat to a considerable extent, which means no end of discomfort to a tournament player, especially if he be in the midst of a five-set match. Turf possesses not only resiliency, but the surface is cool and consoling. This is a strong point in its favor, since it goes a long way toward increasing the physical potentialities of a player.

But the strongest argument, according to the writer, which can be used in favor of a turf court as against either asphalt, clay or gravel, is the effect the color of the surface has upon the vision of a player. There is something attractive about allowing one's eyes to rest on a green stretch after a hard-fought point has been decided. On clay or asphalt the glare of the sun as reflected on the hard surface becomes very tiresome and often is conducive to dizziness. It is during the progress of clay-court tournaments that players are overcome by the heat. There are only a few instances in turf-court tennis where players have succumbed to sunstroke.

The strongest men have been known to wilt under a hot sun while playing on clay courts. Several years ago at the national clay-court championship, in Omaha, Neb., Fred H. Harris, of Dartmouth, a veritable giant in stature, was stricken by a sunstroke during his semi-final match against John R. Strachan, of California. Under the doctor’s orders, he was forbidden to play in tournament competition for at least a year. The result of his Western trip was a severe blow to the Vermont lad, since in the years following he never regained his old-time form.

In first going on to a clay court, when the temperature hovers around the hundred , mark, there is such a glare reflected from the surface as almost to blind a player for the time being. This condition adjusts itself, however, when one becomes more accustomed to his surroundings.

Turf is the most popular court for tournament purposes, then, because it is both easier on the eyes and feet of the player. It is easier on the eyes because the green stretch does not reflect the sun, and finally it is easier on the feet because of the resilient character of the surface. For these two reasons we can justly conclude that a man would tire in his play quicker on clay or asphalt than on turf. A constant glare in the eyes will of a certainty bring on a fatigued mental condition, and this in turn will affect the physical side of a player.

The bound of a ball on clay or asphalt should be more accurate than it is on a turf surface. But this attractive feature is offset

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 151 —

when one comes to consider the manner of both bounds. The bound from off a clay court is high, sharp and usually has a wicked slide attached to it. On grass one generally receives a low, even bound, and the ball on rising has most of its top or “cut” taken from it, due no doubt, to the turf contact. A player thus has more time to reach the ball on turf than if he were playing on clay or asphalt. It may tend to slow up the play; but, all things considered, the real skill of the contestants under such conditions would be better brought out.

The difficulty in handling a ball once it has touched a hard asphalt surface is directly responsible for the highly developed net and service game of the Californians. Out on the coast players know from experience how suicidal is the result of remaining in the back of the court and attempting to stroke an opponent's return. They rush the net at every opportunity and have developed break services to better afford them this end. In coming to the turf court events in the East their tactics have proved to be of immeasurable value to them, since the aggressive element is predominant throughout. Discovering that they could win over the Easterners with their asphalt style of play, they were wise enough not to abandon it for the back-court game, for, just as the hard-court game is conducive to net and volley tactics, so the turf-court game is in equal proportion conducive to back-court tactics. This is due to the ease with which a player can reach a ball on turf. Because the bound is not too high or of a twisting nature, a player has ample time on turf to set himself for his stroke. Again, it is human nature to get out of as much work as possible in arriving at an end; hence, the turf-court player remains along the base line and strokes the opponent's return instead of following in to the net at every opening.

Another bad feature connected with hard-court play is the rapidity with which the ball begins to lose weight. A few sharp rallies on an asphalt court and one discovers the cover of the best tennis ball beginning to wear about the edges. This tends to reduce the weight of the ball and a player finds himself beginning to err in his judgment of its flight. The Eastern team of last summer, consisting of R. N. Williams, W. M. Washburn, G. M. Church and Dean Mathey, which made the trip to the Coast in order to play an intersectional match at the Panama-Pacific Exposition, and who suffered a rather one-sided defeat at the hands of the Californians, complained bitterly of the light balls they were orced to play with. The fact was that the balls were of regulation weight when the matches began, but after a few sharp rallies their surfaces

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 155 —

became so worn as to render an accurate judgment of their flight impossible.

While a clay-court surface is not so hard on balls as one of asphalt, yet it tends to lighten them with amazing rapidity. Balls used in one tournament set on clay are virtually useless from then on except for practice purposes.

For the ball used on turf there is another story. While it may lose weight if played with on asphalt, clay or gravel, it takes up weight if played with on turf. This is in due proportion to the amount of clover in the turf court. If there is much clover present the juices will be taken up by the ball as it strikes the ground. This is the one distinguished difference between English and American turf. The first-named has only little clover in its make-up, thus eliminating the two worst features of the American turf problem, which are a slippery surface and a heavy ball.

If there were less clover in our turf there wou'd be no need of the use of spikes. But, slippery as the surface is a player cannot afford to allow himself to go without some means of support; hence the present-day quarter-inch spike, r puted to be such a terrible curse to turf-court management. It is simply a question of time, however, before the turf courts of this country will be on a par with those in England. The chief reason for the excellence of the latter, as compared with ours, is that they were be*ng cared for at a time when tennis was unknown in the United States.

SURF-BOARD RIDING.

By CHARLES B. DURBOROW

Surf-Board riding is an aquatic sport that had its birth in the South Sea Islands. It is more thrilling than motorboat racing or sailing. The Hawaiians are the most proficient surf-board riders known. This was a favorite diversion of Duke Kohana-moku on one of his visits to this country, and many may recall bis rides on the breakers at Atlantic City, where he was greatly handicapped by being without his surf board and having to make any old board fill its place.

In southern Caliornia this sport is taking a firm hold, but to date Cliff Bowes, the high diving champion, and Vance Veith, swimming coach of the Los Angeles Athletic Club, are the only two masters of the sport and the only two that dare ride a big board standing on their heads and feet.

Digitized by C^ooQie
— 156 —

Most persons ride a board by lying on it, but this is very dangerous if one is not familiar with the trick of balance.

To learn to ride a surf board a novice should use a board about four feet long and about 16 inches wide, and should be careful not to get in a very rough surf. One should first of all lea n what kind of waves are suitable to surf board riding.

If the waves are high and break heavily a novice should pass them up on every occasion. Waves that merely roll in are not dangerous to a beginner.

In going out beyond the breaker line one should always remember to push the board out in front of him, never pushing it out sideways, otherwise one is likely to get a severe blow on the side of the head.

After you get beyond the breaker line lie out on your board and paddle with both hands until you are on a line with the waves. Turn your board shoreward and wait until the right kind of a wave comes along. Double waves should be allowed to pass undisturbed. When you behold a good wave coming paddle hard toward the shore, and after you get going on the crest of the wave stop paddling and hold on to the sides of the board, and be very careful that you do not get too far forward, as your board will dip and over you will go. If you have to get off your board always do so from the side, getting on in the same manner.

This once mastered, you are ready to learn how to stand upon your board, which amounts to plain practice, but it must be constant, as the balancing is a matter of “practice makes perfect/' When you are proficient in standing and balancing you are then ready to turn acrobat.

The Hawaiian surf boards and those which Veith and Bowes use are made of redwood, being nine feet long and weighing 165 pounds. The islanders and those hailing from Lower California can enjoy this sport the year around, as the ocean never ools off and in midwinter surf-board riding is the main sport.

There is no reason why the sport should not become popular along the Atlantic coast, except that all our beaches are so crowded that it might prove dangerous to bathers. The life guards at the various resorts often enjoy surf riding in their boats when the bathers are few. They row out beyond the breaker line and pull slowly toward shore until they see a huge green monster approaching, when they row furiously until the boat is on the very crest of the wave, and the occupants enjoy a thrilling ride to the beach.

It is the same with swimming, as the swimmer, just like the surf-board rider and life guard, can paddle out beyond the foam-

Digitized by CjOOQ le
— 157 —

ing billows, and when he sees a large wave approaching by swimming hard until he is on the very crest and then lying extended with hands outstretched in front and feet straight out behind, he, too, can have the same kind of a joy ride.

The swimmer, just like the surf-board rider, will find it difficult to get his ride at first, or if he does it will be short, but with practice he rapidly acquires the knack of it and has another way of enjoying the countless pleasures of surf bathing.

DESCRIPTIONS OF MOVEMENTS AND POSITIONS IN SINGLE STICK FENCING.

By FERD. E. KOERTSCH, New Haven, Conn.

(Continued.)

6.—The Offensive Arm Movements—The Cuts.

General Remarks Concerning these Movements.

THE WRIST MOVEMENT during the execution of the cuts is by far the most important and requires the most careful attention. During the greater part of a cut the movement is entirely one of the wrist, the extension of the arm combining with it just before the ultimate position is reached. The degree of flexion of the arm while in the guard position should not be increased during the execution of a cut. The tendency of the beginner is to give the arm an extra flexion at the beginning of a movement. This must receive special attention.

THE ARM EXTENSION takes place after about three-fourths of the cut has been executed. At the end of the cut the arm is fully extended and the stick forms a straight line with it.

THE CUTS are named after the parts and the sides of the opponent's body to which the attack is to be delivered. It is important to note that from the guard position the head cut and all the cuts leading to the left side of the opponent's body are executed by circular whipping movements, while those to the right side are straight striking* movements. The circular cut may, however, be executed to the right side but these follow out of other positions than the guard, and will be explained in the later series of lessons. The circular movement is called “Moulinet." This term will be made use of in the lessons.

THE RETURN TO GUARD, after a cut implies a bending of the arm and wrist bringing the stick to its position in the shortest way possible.

Digitized by Google
— 158 —

TEACHING THE CUTS. The cuts should first be taught while standing in the fundamental position with a "Half Left Face” from the guard position of the arm; then they are to be given while in the regular guard position of the foot, leg and arm without a lunge and finally the cut is to be combined with the lunge. The lessons are self-explanatory in regard to this development.

THE EXECUTION. The cuts should be practised with holding the ultimate position before returning to guard, and corrections should be made while the position is held. After the execution has been thoroughly learned the cut and return may be practised for speed being cautious, however, to show a distinct outline of where the cut terminates and the return movement begins.

(a)	The Head Cut.

The head cut begins with a vertical circular movement of the wrist and stick combined with a quick extension of the arm. The point of the stick describes a vertical circle (Moulinet) beginning backward and upward passing by the left side of the body continuing forward and at its termination cutting downward upon the opponent's head in a vertical line. The thumb at the end of the movement is upward.

(b)	The Left Cheek Cut.

This is an oblique circular movement terminating in a horizontal cut. The movement is similar to that of the head cut but the point instead of beginning backward moves outward to the left side and upward with only a slight backward direction thus passing by the left side of the face until it is directly over the head. From here the point continues to the right gradually passing into a horizontal forward circular movement (lying in a plane at the level of the face) cutting in horizontally at the opponent's left cheek. The hand at the end of the movement is supinated with the knuckles downward and the thumb on the right side.

(c)	The Left Body Cut.

This cut is executed in almost precisely the same manner as the left cheek cut. The point passes by the left side of the face, over the head and to the right side in an oblique foredownward direction terminating in a horizontal forward circular movement, cutting in at the left side of the opponent's body anywhere between the shoulder and waist. The knuckles are again downward with the thumb on the right side.

(d)	The Left Waist Cut.

The left waist cut is identical with the left body cut, the stick striking the opponent on the left side at the waist line or hip.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 159 —

(e)	The Left Flank Cut.

This is again the same as the left body cut but does not terminate in a horizontal cut. The oblique circular movement is continuous, the stick striking the opponent's thigh on the left side at an oblique angle.

(f)	The Right Cheek Cut.

The right cheek cut is executed by withdrawing the stick from that of the opponent to a 3 or 4 inch distance and elevating the point to the level of the face. This is a pure wrist movement. This is followed by a quick extension of the arm cutting in on a horizontal at the right cheek of the adversary. The knuckles of the hand remain uppermost.

(g)	The Right Body Cut.

The execution is identical with the right cheek cut, the stick striking the right side of the opponent's body between the shoulder and waist line.

(h)	The Right Waist Cut.

This cut is similar to the right body cut the stick striking the opponent's right side at the waist line or at the hip.

(i)	The Right Flank Cut.

Here the execution is again the same as in the right body cut, the stick striking the opponent on the right side of the thigh.

7—The Defensive Arm Movements—The Parries.

General Remarks.

THE EXECUTION of the parries must be very accurate and must be restricted to the smallest range of movement possible. The movements should not be greater than is absolutely necessary to cover the part of the body attacked by the adversary. If the parry is wide there is the danger of exposing some other part too freely. The parries are generally executed while in the guard position accompanied by no foot movement.

(a)	The Right Head Parry.

From the guard position the hand is raised to a height level with the forehead, in line with the right eye and about 6 inches in front of the head. Avoid the tendency of drawing the arm so far backward that the hand comes over the head. The point of the stick is directed forward, slightly downward and to the left. The knuckles are pointing toward the head with the thumb under the stick to give resistance to the weight of the opponent's cut.

(b)	The Left Head Parry.

The left head parry is not frequently used because it is a difficult position to get into from the guard position and requires too much time in its execution. However, after having delivered a

Digitized by CjOOQle
160 —

cut to the left side of the opponent's body the left head parry may be used with success in parrying a counter-attack or riposte of the opponent. The hand in this parry is in front of the head and in	!

line with the left eye at the level of the forehead. The stick is horizontal, pointing forward and to the right side with the thumb under the stick and the knuckles turned forward.

(c)	The Right Cheek Parry.	'

The hand is lowered to a point slightly below the shoulder

level, combined with a slightly increased bending of the arm with lowering the elbow, bringing it nearer to the body so that it will be pointing downward. At the same time the point of the stick is raised bringing the stick in line with the forearm which is pointing obliquely foreupward. The knuckles are directed toward the body v/ith the thumb on the left side of the stick. The stick and. arm must not move outside of the body line.

(d)	The Left Cheek Parry.

In this parry the stick assumes relatively the same position as that of the right cheek parry with the hand in front of the left instead of the right shoulder. The arm and wrist are bent the forearm covering the front of the body. The hand is supinated	i

so that the knuckles are turned forward with the thumb on the right side of the stick.	1

(e)	The Right Body Parry.

If the hand and stick are moved horizontally to the right a distance of 2 or 3 .inches the right side of the body will be. covered. , In this parry the upper-arm remains stationar}^, the movement being one of the forearm with the fulcrum at the elbow thus producing a slight extension of the arm.

(f)	The Left Body Parry.	j

Here the hand and stick move, from the guard position, horizontally to the left to a distance of 2 or 3 inches, producing a flexion

of the arm. The upper-arm again remains stationary. The	,

knuckles of the hand are turned toward the body with the thumb	j

on the right side of the stick.	I

(NOTE—In neither the right nor the left body parry does the point of the 1 stick move outside of the body line. The stick retains an oblique foredown ward	I

direction. These two parries also cover the waist and thigh surfaces on both	j

sides. Thus to parry the Right Waist and Right Flank we use the Right Body	j

Parry and for the Left Waist and LeflFlan'c the I. eft Body Parry.)

SECTION A	'

Class Work—The development of the guard position and the attacks and parries.	\

Formation—Front ranks in open order.

I

, c

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 161 —

LESSON I

Preliminary foot movements with hands on hips.

(1) Face half-left—one; face to front—two. Repeat several times.

(2) Face half-left—one; bend knees—two; place right foot forward on guard—three; close to rear (front)—four; face front— five.

(3)	Pass to guard as in (2) and, double appel—begin, one, two. Repeat several times. Then double appel and close to rear (front)—begin, one, two; front—face.

(4)	Guard position as (2) and, ad—vance one, two or re—treat one, two. Repeat several times. Double appel and close to rear (front)—begin, one, two; front—face.

(5)	From guard position, lunge—one; return—two. Repeat several times.

(6)	The lunge as in (5) alternated with one or several advances or retreats.

LESSON II

Preliminary arm movements while standing in the fundamental position with a “half left face.”

(1)	Face, half-left (with pointing)—one; elevate—two; chin

salute—three; circle to guard (the arm only)—four. The return movement:	Elevate—one; chin salute—two; front—face.

(2)	Pass to guard as in (1) and execute (without leg movements) ;

(a)	Head cut — one; return (to guard) — two.

(b)	Left cheek cut — one; return (to guard)-— two.

(c)	Left body cut — one; return (to guard) — two.

(d)	Left waist cut — one; return (to guard) — two.

(e)	Left flank cut — one; return (to guard) — two.

The above are the moulinet cuts. Then in a similar manner execute (with a straight cut) the Right cheek, Right body, Right waist and Right flank cuts.

LESSON III

Preliminary arm movements (continued) while standing in the guard position as Lesson II, Exercise (1) and execute:

(a)	Right head parry — one; return — two.

(b)	Left head parry — one; return — two.

In a similar manner execute the Left and Right cheek and Left and Right body parries.

(NOTE—The waist and flank parries are omitted here because the body parries will cover these parts. However, this point should be made clear to the class to avoid confusion in the lessons which follow.)

Digitized by t^ooQle
— 162 —

LESSON IV

Passing to the completed guard position (leg and arm).

(1)	Face half-left (with pointing)—one; elevate—two; chin salute—three; circle the arm to guard with bending knees and placing the right foot forward on guard—four.

Return Movement: Close to rear (front) or with double appel close to rear (front) with elevating—begin one, two; chin salute —three; front—face.

(2)	Guard as (1) and execute one or several advances and retreats. Return to fundamental position.

(3)	Guard as (1) and without lunging execute the various cuts as given in Lesson II above.

(4)	As (3) but execute the various parries as given in Lesson III above.

LESSON V

The cuts combined with lunging and alternated with other exercises.

(1)	Pass to guard and execute the various offensive movements (Cuts) given in Lesson II combined with the lunge and return to guard, (e. g.) Head cut (with lunge)—one; return—two.

(2)	As (1) but alternate each cut and return with one or several advances or retreats.

(3)	As (1) but alternate each cut and return with one of the parries.

(4)	Alternate exercises of (2) with those of (3).

(To be continued.)

REPORT OF THE SUB-COMMITTEE ON MILITARY TRAINING OF THE PHILADELPHIA BOARD OF EDUCATION.

To the Joint Committee on Higher Schools.

Gentlemen :-

The Sub-committee on Military Training begs to report to the Committee that it finds it undesirable to add a technical course in military training to the already full curriculum of the public schools.

The extension and development of the present method of physical training is strongly advised, supplemented by practical instruction in hygiene, prevention of disease, and the immediate treatment of wounds and injuries.

Digitized by Google
— 163 —

To the attainment of these ends we recommend:

1.	The appointment of ten additional physical instructors as assistants to the director of physical education.

2.	The embodiment of a course in physical training into the regular curriculum with credits as for other studies.

3.	Providing as rapidly as is feasible for at least one hour per day for instruction in physical training and hygiene, including the opportunities for athletics and free and supervised play.

4.	The prompt training of the entire teaching corps in the principles of physical training, sanitation, prevention of disease, and dealing with emergencies.

5.	The immediate and concerted effort upon the part of teachers to acquire themselves a proper carriage, and to impress this upon the student body both by example and precept.

6.	That, in order to the give to the child ample opportunity for physical education, the Committee on Property be requested to provide adequate facilities, both for indoor and for outdoor physical exercises, as promptly as possible.

The general aims and purposes, and the methods of carrying on the physical training work and health exercises in the schools are indicated in the attached sheets, entitled “Physical Education in the Public Schools of Philadelphia”.

(NOTE.—This report was made May 8th. The probabilities are that it will be accepted without one dissenting vote by the schoolboard, and the recommendations contained therein put into operation as soon as possible. It is hoped that the hysteria of “Preparedness” sweeping over the land will have like splendid results elsewhere.)

SIMPLE EXPERIMENTS

At times, these simple experiments will be as welcome to older pupils in playgrounds as the “quiet” games are.

One of the best ways to get pupils to think is through experiments. Children like to see things, and when they observe any physical phenonenon, they wish to know the cause, and will reason for a long time upon a simple experiment to explain “what made it do that”. The following attractive and interesting experiments with air can be performed with ten cents’ worth of glass tubing and ten cents’ worth of rubber tubing. The bottles and corks pupils will gladly bring from home.

Matter is defined as anything that occupies space. Is air matter?

Experiment 1. Place a cork on a pan of water; over it place

Digitized by

Google
— 164 —

an inverted tumbler and press down. The cork is seen on the surface of the water at the bottom of the pan. The water does not rise in the tumbler because the air is there. We see that air occupies space therefore is matter.

Experiment II. Matter possesses energy. Energy is the ability to produce motion. Does air possess energy?

Into a bottle put some water. Through a tightly fitting cork make a hole with a round file. Through this run a glass tube letting it dip into the water. Now blow through the tube and the air will bubble through the water and be compressed in the bottle above the water. When you remove your mouth the compressed air will force the water out of the tube in a fountain, thus producing motion. To work well the bottle should be large and the tube drawn to a point by holding it in the flame of an alcohol lamp. (This lamp can be made by putting a glass tube through a cork in an ink bottle, and drawing a rag through the glass tube for a wick.)

Experment III. Has the atmosphere pressure? To answer this question, thrust a glass tube into a bottle of water. Place the finger over the upper end and lift it up. The atmospheric pressure holds the water up in the tube.

Experiment IV. Fill a tumbler with water, place a card over it and invert it. The atmospheric pressure holds the card on and the water up in the tumbler.

Experiment V. Two tumblers can be placed with the tops together under water and lifted from the water and set in a quiet place. They will remain filled for a long time.

A chicken's watering cup can be made by placing a fruit jar filled with water, mouth downward, in a saucer. A thin chip can be placed under the jar to let a little water run into the saucer.

Experiment VI. Thrust a pin through the center of a card one inch square and place this on a spool with the pin in the hole of the spool to hold it from slipping off. Now blow through the other end of the spool. You cannot blow the card off. Why?

Experiment VII. An air pump which will show atmospheric pressure very effectively can be made by taking a gallon bottle, nearly filled with water. Fit it with a two holed cork. Through one hole hole run a glass tube to the bottom of the bottle. To the top of the glass tube fasten a rubber tube two feet long, making a siphon. Through the other hole in the cork fit a short glass tube. On the lower end fasten a small rubber balloon. Now suck on the rubber tube and as the water flows out of the bottle the atmosphere will press in through the tube and expand the balloon.

Digitized by

Google
— 165 —

This also shows the principle of respiration. As the intercostal muscles enlarge the chest, the air rushes into the lungs. The device can also be used for a condensing pump by reversing the action and letting water run into the large bottle.

Experiment VIII. Another way to exhaust air is with an inspirator, which can be made by making a small hole in the side of a piece of rubber tubing* and through this hole forcing a glass tube and running it down the rubber tube two inches or more. Now let water run through the glass tube and on through the rubber tube. The water rushing down will suck air in through the free end of the rubber tube and take it down with the water out of the lower end of the tube.

Experiment IX. A machine to make gas for the Bunsen burner can be made by half filling a bottle with gasoline and fitting it with a two-holed cork. In one hole fit a glass tube which extends into the gasoline. Into the other hole fit a tube which extends just through the cork. To the outer end attach a tube leading to the Bunsen burner. Blow in the free tube and light the gas.

Experiment X. To make a Bunsen-burner, fit a piece of cardboard over a piece of glass tubing that has been bent once at right angles, to make it rest on the table, and again at right angles to make it stand up. Over this set a larger glass tube, or piece of iron pipe four inches long and a half inch in diameter and let it rest on the cardboard. Pin-holes can be made in the card board to let in air from the bottom and another card slipped up and down on the tube to regulate the amount of air.

To make a complete gas plant, break a piece out of the bottom of a gallon bottle, holding the edge of the bottom in the flame of a lamp. This will crack out a small piece. Set this in a small tin pail of water and let the lower end of the tube in Experiment VIII run in at the bottom of the bottle through the break. Now lead a tube from the cork of the bottle to the' gasoline bottle and the gas plant is ready to work.

Neglect in Health.—In these days, half our diseases come from the neglect of the body in the overwork of the brain. In this railway age, the wear and tear of labor and intellect go on without pause or self-pity. We live longer than our forefathers, but we suffer more from a thousand artificial anxieties and cares. They fatigued only the muscles, we exhaust the finer strength of the nerves.—Bulwer.

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 163 —

By H. ARMIN STECHER, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

WATER CARNIVAL.

MINERVA STERN, Philadelphia.

Novel and Original Events Create Interest and Give Life to a

Playground.

Many suggestions made by lecturers are often lost to the student body because of the belief that “things that sound most thrilling in theory are not a success when put into practice.”

Last summer during a course of playground lectures at the Indianapolis Summer School, a number of suggestions were made to teachers showing how they could improve their work. In order to hold and increase the interest of the children many novel events were suggested, among them “A Water Carnival.” Th:s event appealed strongly to me, due to the fact, no doubt, that I am a teacher in a municipal playground possessing no swimming pool, simply a small wading pool.

I made up my mind, as soon as I reached home, to put into practice what seemed so inspiring in theory. In preparing for the event first of all attractive posters were made and posted around the wading pool advertising “A Water Carnival”, stating the day and time it was to be held, and inviting all boys and girls wishing to enter to register at once. It may have been curiosity, or interest, or both, that made the children flock around the desk to register, but after their questions were answered nearly one hundred names were presented. The children were sent away with full instructions about the material to bring, also how they were going to make their own boats.

For several weeks the excitement was very great, some little tots could secure only cigar boxes to make into boats, but all the material brought was utilized. During the following days ship building became the main occupation during the industrial periods, each child following his own ideas in building his ship. Some of the parents who took a great interest in their children helped them to make most wonderful boats at home. At last everything was in readiness for the eventful day. At the appointed time

Digitized by CjOOQie
— 167 —

about fifty or sixty little boats of all descriptions were presented. True there were some boats that had been brought the last minute by the “ten o'clock scholar" who came too late to finish his or her boat.

I will now describe how the water-carnival was managed. Only children possessing boats were allowed to enter the water. They were lined up to receive a number which they tied to their boats. When this was accomplished the boats lined up according to numbers for the opening parade. The children proudly waded through the water several times around the pool, pulling their boats after them. Finally the whistle blew, which announced that the judges had made their decision, (which was no easy task), as the best, most original, best decorated and neatest boats were each to be chosen.

Then came the various races. As there were many entrants the races were run in heats according to weight, size and nature of a boat. During the races the boys and girls were not allowed to run, they simply walked as fast as they could, pulling their boats after them. As soon as a boy forgot himself in his excitement and r^n he was compelled to forfeit the race. The interest and enthusiasm increased with each heat, but it reached its height when the winners of each heat were lined up for the finals. Imagine the excitement and cheers that went up when a little boy five years old dragging a tiny little sail boat came quietly and unconsciously in ahead of all the rest.

The next event was the test for balance. This event created a great deal of laughter and enjoyment, for some of the most artful ship builders had forgotten to balance their boats. The boats once more paraded around the pool, this time the children slowly and carefully dragged their boats behind them. Five times around the pool proved to the judges that very few boats stood the test, the slightest tilting of the boat to one side caused the contestant to drop out. This event was not only amusing, but also interesting, for some of the little tots were so anxious to put flags on one side of the boat to decorate it that they quite neglected the other side, forgetting all about equalizing the weight.

At the end of the day all the winners were awarded by having their boats photographed, first in a group, then separately. This carnival proved to be the most successful little event of the season. But the interest did not stop with the day. The children kept making more wonderful boats each day, and bringing them to the wading pool to test for balance. Now they spend hours playing with their little boats in the wading pool. This was the first novel

Digitized by AjOOQie
— 168 —

event, but many original events sprang to my mind from this one, which I did not hestiate to put into practice immediately, realizing that it is, after all, the little practical events on a playground that interest and instruct the children, and are really worth while.

WAND EXERCISES IN A CIRCLE.

JOS. CERMAK, Physical Dir. Medill H. S., Chicago, 111.

It is a well known fact, that pupils do not show much interest in calisthenics if these are executed every time in the same formation, and that it is hard to keep their undivided attention if we do not strive to satisfy their natural desire for variety. If the pupils hear the very same command, the very same direction every time—if they "take places” for calisthenics every time in the same manner, they hardly pay any attention to the teacher's direction and execute all the movements in a rather mechanical, indifferent way. Even the well arranged exercises which follow do not "wake them up” from their indolence. Experienced teachers, knowing this, arrange the calisthenics in different formations, resort to all kinds of intermediate exercises, and it is surprising how a little change sometimes suddenly awakens the feeling of pleasure—even enthusiasm—provided, the exercise can be easily mastered and does not tax the brain too much.

To many collections of such exercises I desire to add these "Wand exercises in a circle.”

The pupils form a front circle in an open order (facing toward the centre) and are "counted off” as "first” and "second”. If a march in a column of fours had preceded this, they may be called "odd” (1st and 3d) and "even” (2d and 4th files).

Fundamental position: heels closed, wand horizontal in front, arms straight.

Boys may exerc se with iron wands, girls with wooden wands.

Music: a march or polka.

Theme: Combination of vertical and horizontal positions 1) as simple exercises, 2) same with leg exercises, 3) same w.th a turn and 4) same with trunk exercises.

EXERCISE 1.

a) Raise wand vertically forward, left hand above 1-2! raise wand horizontally right forward (left hand under the right arm) 3-4! reverse 5-6! 7-8!

Digitized by Google
— 169 —

b) March forward 3 steps, closing heels on 4th count, mark time 4 counts extending a 1-2 turn to the left.

Repeat a) opposite and repeat b)

(NOTE.—These and all the following exercises are executed as follows: Pupils No. 1 (or 1. and 3.) begin with exercise a) 8 counts and then exercise b) 8 counts. Then repeat exercise a) opposite 8 counts, and repeat again b). Pupils No. 2. (or 2. and 4.) repeat the same, but begin with exercise b) (marching) and finish with exercise a). Repeat “ad libitum/’)

EXERCISE 2.

Repeat exercise 1. but on 3-4 bend the knees half way and alternate w th marching.

EXERCISE 3.

Repeat exercise 1. but on 1-2! stride position forward left on 3-4! 1-4 turn right and reverse, after march repeat opposite.

EXERCISE 4.

Repeat exerci e 1. but on 3-4! bend the trunk forward.

II.

EXERCISE 1.

Wand vertically left downward (1 arm downward right hand opposite left shoulder) 1-2! wand horizontally forward right (right arm forward, left hand above the right shoulder 3-4! reverse 5-6! 7-8!—March and repeat oppos te.

EXERCISE 2

Repeat exercise 1. but on 3-4! r'se on toes.

EXERCISE 3.

Repeat exercise 2. but on 1-2! stride backward left on 3-4! 1-4 turn to the left and reverse. March and opposite.

EXERCISE 4.

Repeat xercise 1. but on 3-4! bend trunk backward.

III.

EXERCISE 1.

Rake wand vertically left upward (left arm upward and right hand opposite left shoulder) 1-2! wand horizontally in front of chest, arms crossed (right arm above) 3-4! reverse 5-6! 7-8! March and repeat opposite.

EXERCISE 2.

Repeat exercise 1. but on 3-4! side straddle hop, close on 5-6!

EXERCISE 3.

Repeat exercise 1. but on 1-2! stride sideward left, on 3-4! 1-4 turn left and reverse. March and opposite.

EXERCISE 4.

Repeat exercise 1. but on 3-4! bend the trunk sideward left, march — repeat opposite and bend sideward right.

(NOTE.—If a phonograph is used, go through one exercise without music, make necessary corrections, and then repeat several times with music.)

Digitized

:ized by Google
— 170 —

BASKETRY AND KITE-MAKING ON THE PLAYGROUND.

F.	D. DAVIS.

On hot and sultry afternoons when the boys and girls do not feel inclined to play or engage in big-muscle activities, it was necessary to find something to occupy their minds bes de loafing in the shade, and to get them out of the habit of simply doing nothing. Being a manual arts teacher, I naturally turned to some simple manual activity. I chose basket-making for the girls and kitemaking for the boys.

At first, I planned for two and one-half hours one day a week for each c ass. In the basket class I had only the girls from the fifth and sixth grades in the beginning, but I soon had a waiting list so large demanding the work I had to limit the membership to the seventh and eighth grade girls. In a few weeks the older people began to come, and from that t me until the close of the p’ayground season the attendance was large from among the grown up people, young ladies, mother and grandmothers. Their presence was an excellent thing for the playground; it added dignity and stimulated interest in the play and games. I soon found I had more pupils than I could take care of, so had to arrange for the classes to meet in two sections. The older people were placed in one group and the younger ones in the other and each given the same time as before.

All the equipment we bought was a small wash tub in which to soak the reed; this tub cost seventy-five cents. Members of the classes brought their own knives and shears to split and cut the reed and a local furniture dealer supplied us with rulers. We kept our reed and all necessary supplies in a large box which was provided with a lock. Rough benches were placed under a tent already provided by the playground board.

We started with simple mats and baskets but the work soon progressed into advanced and more complicated projects, especially among the older people to fancy weaves, combinations of wood and raffia and reed, reed and raffia, double weaves and spokes and many original ideas. It would take too long to enumerate the different articles made but some of the most practical ones were lamps and shades, trays with board and wooden bottoms, hanging flower baskets for the porch, candle sticks and shades, and baskets of all descriptions. Some displayed wonderful initiative in creating original and artistic designs and projects. In all, there were about three hundred baskets made. We allowed all

Digitized by ^ooQie
— 171 —

members to make one basket free of charge, after that we charged’ a small fee to cover the cost of reed.

I venture to say that no other manual activity can be conducted with less cost for equipment and be suitable for all ages and I am sure the interest was all that could be desired and the results obtained of the highest order for children and amateurs* In beginning the kite-work, we first tried to find all the material on the subject available. Of this we found plenty at the public library in boys' magazines and in one of the big daily newspapers* The boys were very anxious to know all they could, and soon had quite a supply of material which they all read with much interest* We began first with the old fashioned tail kite, then to the bow tailless kite and from that to the box kite, both in single and tandem. We also made fancy kites of all kinds, the boys originating some very novel shapes and designs but all included the principles that make kite-flying a possibility.

All the equipment necessary was a sharp jack knife, homemade flour paste, string, small brads and the sticks which we secured at a very small expense,—in many cases split out of old packing boxes. We bought some cloth for the box kites, and the Park Board supplied us with some.

All the boys took an intense interest in the making and flying of these kites, even the boys of advanced age, some of the oldei boys building a box kite over eight feet high (though the smaller models are better for general use on account of expense). Every evening when it became cool you could see kites everywhere in the sky. We also attempted some gliders.

The interest scon spread to other playgrounds and we found all the boys of the city playgrounds making kites. This all gave rise to a deeper study among the boys of the underlying principles of kite-flying, and a broader knowledge of all air-craft. I noticed too that the boys read every thing we could obtain on the subject* instead of simply idling away their time.

We formed the boys into squads to build the larger kites and appointed captains and arranged for the different squads to hold; a tournament on the closing day when prizes were given for certain performances with kites. I know of nothing better to interest boys than this manual activity on account of the simple equipment, the activity that is required to fly the kites and the research necessary to understand the principles of air-craft. This was proved by the report of the library that every book on kiteflying and aviation was out, while before they had been practically untouched.—	“The Playground.”

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 172 —

OUTLINE FOR A STATE PLAYGROUND LAW

BE IT ENACTED IN THE STATE OF: ----------------------------------

FIRST: That hereafter no city or town school shall be built on less than one block of ground or on less than three acres unless a block shall have approximately this area, nor any high school on less than four blocks or ten acres of ground, or any rural school on less than five acres without special permission from the State Commissioner of Play and Physical Training as hereafter created in this bill.

SECOND: That no school or schools which already occupy forty per cent or more of the available space of their ground within the building line shall hereafter be enlarged without also enlarging the ground, and that no school shall be enlarged so as to cover more than forty per cent of the space within the building line of its lot, except as provided in the previous section.

THIRD: That two hours of play and physical training each week, over and above the fifteen minute recesses during the morning and afternoon, and the noon intermission, shall become a part of the program for each grade of the elementary and high school.

FOURTH: That wherever any city school system shall provide qualified directors of play and physical training on its school grounds after school and on Saturdays, and during the summer, and shall also furnish the equipment, such as balls, bats, and the like, which are essential to play, and such apparatus as swings, slides, and sand bins for less organized play activities, and where a rural school shall furnish a suitable ground of not less than two acres, play apparatus costing not less than twenty-five dollars, with such equipment for play as indoor baseballs, volley balls, tennis nets, and croquet as the conditions warrant, that said schools shall receive one half-dollar extra from the state funds for each pupil in average daily attendance, provided, however, that the funds furnished by the State shall not exceed one-half of the entire amount expended on play and recreation.

FIFTH: That the office of Commissioner of Education in charge of play and physical training is hereby created in the office of the State Board of Education. The incumbent to have charge of promoting the health and physical welfare of the children throughout the schools of the state, to prepare plans and specifications for the laying out and equipping of school grounds and to supervise the conditions of this act. On his recommendation the State

Digitized by LjOoq le
— 173 —

Board shall withhold or grant to schools the extra compensation contemplated in this bill, the compensation of this commissioner to be the same as the other Commissioners of Education.

SIXTH: An appropriation of fifty thousand dollars is hereby set aside to meet the conditions of this law. If, however, a sufficient number of school systems do not meet the conditions to require the entire amount thus appropriated, the balance so accumulated shall* be placed to the credit of the appropriation for the following year.

SEVENTH: All other acts or parts of acts inconsistent with or in conflict with the provisions of this act are hereby repealed.

(NOTE.—California is thinking of enacting a state law referring to play and physical education. The above is a copy of one of the drafts prepared to deal with the subject. )

PHYSICAL EDUCATION CLUB LOS ANGELES STATE NORMAL SCHOOL

One of the latest features of interest in the educational field in the West is being presented by the Los Angeles State Normal School. Just a year ago last September the new L. A. S. N. School was completed consisting of twelve well equipt buildings. The demands on the various departments within the past year have been so great that the progression is exceedingly rapid thruout the school.

September 1915, witnessed the introduction of the new special department of Physical Education into the Normal. This School of Physical Education is the first of its kind in the West. The need for such a department has been felt for many years among the faculty and students. The Physical Education School altho only six months old, has now a membership of forty-six men and women, and the work is well under way.

The directors in charge are Miss Sarah J. Jacobs, head of the department and. Miss Lucille Grunewald, and Mr. Fred E. Schlatter.

The good spirit and enthusiasm have grown so rapidly that on February 8, a Physical Education Club was formed. This club has everything in its favor so far. All its members are earnest workers and active enthusiasts. The membership has been limited to members of the School of Physical Education and those men and women representing the school in the major»sports in the School..

Digitized by Google
— 174 —

The first special day program was given by the Club on February 22 and consisted of a George Washington Party and Costume Dance, to which the faculty were invited. The gymnasium was decorated most effectively in red geraniums, pepper boughs and American flags. Over thirty-five girls were prettily costumed in quaint dresses of long ago. The twelve “minute men” and the Dolly Varden Girls danced the Varsouvinne together. The "minute men” also gave the “Hussar” which was very appropriate. Tlien the Dolly Vardens gave the Ribbon Dance and were followed by the Martha Washington Ladies who did the slow and stately “French Minuet”. All the guests then joined in the Virginia Reel after which dainty refreshments were served in a candle-lighted roam.

Many such affairs are being planned for the future and thru these snappy programs and various other activities the Club expects to make itself felt thruout the West.

—Mildred Couch, Secretary.

HEW AND NOVEL APPARATUS FOR RECREATION CENTRES IN PHILADELPHIA.

Playhouses for Girls and Caves for Boys Among Features to Be Introduced Throughout City This Summer.

Many new and novel articles of apparatus are being planned by the Board of Recreation for use in the recreation centres throughout the city this summer, with the summer season approaching and the consequent danger to those children, who but for these centres would have to seek their play and recreation in the streets. Articular attention is being paid to apparatus that will appeal strongly to the younger children.

Two of these pieces of apparatus that have been designed, hot as yet have not been constructed, and which will appear with the other exhibits of the Board of Recreation at the Philadelphia Today and Tomorrow exhibit, are a playhouse for girls and a cave -for the boys. The playhouse will consist of a one-story building of three sides, with table and other equipment, where the girls - ran arrange their own household to their special tastes and contentment.

The cave will consist of an artificial embankment hollowed out. and the equipment of this will be left practically entirely to the boys themselves. It will give them an opportunity to play .-She hind of game? that appeal strongly to boys and give adven-

Digitized by

Google
I

175 —

turous spirits the chance to display their bravery and strength in fighting robbers and pirates and imaginary bad people.

In addition to these there will be poles for balancing, fences for leaping exercises and smaller pieces of apparatus, all of which will be new to Philadelphia recreation centres.
— 176 —

j PHYSIOLOGY UNO HYGIENE

BY D. M. F. KROGH, M. D.

SLOGAN OF MEDICAL PROFESSION IS THE PREVENTION

OF DISEASE

Under this superscription, Dr. B. F. Roller in the New York Herald of Sunday Oct. 24, 1915 writes among other interesting health factors:

Build Up the Individual. There are just two ways to avoid noxious bacteria and prevent their consequent disease. One of them is to wage constant war against the bacteria. The other is to build up and keep at high water mark the physical resistive power of the individual. Of these two methods Dr. James J. Walsh says (and I most heartily agree) that “resistance is by far the more important/' In proof of this contention Dr. Walsh cited the experiment of the famous Pettenkofer, who deliberately swallowed a large dose of Asiatic cholera virus to prove that the cholera bacillus had no important etiologic significance. When he failed to develop cholera Koch said it was because the dose was not big enough and there was no digestive disturbance. Pettenkopfer promptly upset his digestion and took a much larger dose, whereupon he acquired cholera, but recovered.

The entire theory of immunity, whether natural or acquired, is due to internal resistance. A disease, a poison or a microbe which will prove fatal to one may cause another little inconvenience. That is entirely due to the individual's power to fight off and resist the invasion. In the question of disease the responsibilities are shared by everybody, and the matter deserves the cooperation of all. What a paradise this country would be without disease! What an awful place it would have been had scientists not unceasingly fought disease! If science were to lay down its hands and the people were to forget the rules of sanitation and health every city between the oceans would be unpopulated in less than fifty years. But a successful fight is possible. If the hundred million people beneath the Stars and Stripes, the clubs, the churches, legislators and newspapers would campaign and wage war against disease and for the cause of health with as much enthusiasm and cunning as they display in conniving for social and political advantages and fighting for the

Digitized by

Google
— 177 —

almighty dollar, in five short years this would be the healthiest and the happiest people on earth.

In accomplishing that result the chief factors will be education, compliance with the rules of sanitation, promptness in taking the aggressive against an affliction, and the correct regulation of personal habits. Ignorance of the laws of health is not excusable today and, next to negligence, should be a punishable offence. There should be a more rigid enforcement of hygenic laws. Persons who expectorate on sidewalks and otherwise scatter pollution in public, persons who throw or allow refuse of any sort to lie in places other than vessels which the city provides, and those who allow swamps and puddles to exist, should be liable to a sentence in jail.

The thing of uppermost importance, however, in the search for physical health and protection against disease is personal hygiene. That brings us back again to the things about which I have preached-avoid intemperance, inactivity and poisons. Enjoy everything in life but nothing to the extreme. Shun poisons of every kind. They diminish your vital resistance and they make it impossible to build. Take home with you to your fireside and to your office and practise in your private life the principles of hygiene. Hygiene for the army and the public is good hygiene for the individual. There is no imaginable way in which you can better serve both the community and yourself.

Last of all, and best of all, is just exercise. Encourage your muscles, circulate your blood, get rid of the waste, build up your lungs and make room for oxygen and food.

Good health commercially considered.—The final report of the Commission on Industrial Relations, created by act of Congress in 1912, has just been issued. While the findings and recommendations of this commission on labor conditions, industrial unrest, workmen's compensation, hours of labor, trade unions and other subjects connected with industrial conditions are of interest, the most important section of the report, from the standpoint of the physician and the sanitarian, is Section 16 on Industrial Conditions and the Public Health. Condensed into six pages are a number of startling statements for the first time given the authority and endorsement of a government commission. Under the direction of an officer of the Public Health Service, investigations were conducted by the commission which revealed the fact that while much attention has been given of late to accident prevention, yet accidents caused only one seventh as much destitution as does sickness. Each

Digitized by CjOOQie
— 178 —

of the thirty-odd million wage earners in the United States loses an average of nine days a year through sickness, at an average cost of two dollars a day. The wage loss from this source s over five hundred million, while the added cost of medical care of at least $180,000,000 increases the total sick bill of the wage earners of the United States to $680,000,000 a year. From 30 to 40 per cent of cases requiring charitable relief are due to sickness, while sickness among wage earners is primarily the result of poverty, causing insufficient diet, bad housing, inadequate clothing and unfavorable surroundings in the home. According to the commission, the surroundings and place of work and the personal habits of the worker are important but secondary factors. This means that while there should be no diminution in our efforts to secure better conditions in the factory, the office and the workship, the real solution of the public health problem lies in the improvement of the home.

Quite as important is the classification made by the commission of disease-causing conditions into three general groups: those for which the employer and the character of the occupation are responsible, and those for which the public is responsible, and those for which the individual worker and his family are responsible. It has become a truism in public health work that fixing the responsibility definitely and beyond question is half of the battle for better conditions. The commission regards the employer as responsible for occupational diseases, low wages, excessive hours, work methods causing nervous strain and general insanitary conditions. The public is responsible for housing, water supply, food, drugs and community sanitation. The greatest share of responsibility, however, rests on the individual and, under present conditions, in the opinion of the commission, he is unable to meet this responsibility. The majority of wage earners do not receive sufficient wages to provide for proper living conditions. The present methods of disease prevention and cure are expensive, and sickness is most prevalent among those who are least able to purchase health. The commission does not anticipate any such rapid increase in the wages of all classes of workers as would permit proper living conditions and adequate medical attention, and therefore concludes that new methods of dealing with existing conditions must be adopted, based on the cooperative action of those responsible for these conditions. A system of sickness insurance is proposed as the most feasible single remedy. The right of the federal government to tax industries in a sickness insurance system has been recognized since 1798, when the law taxing registered vessels for the support of the Marine Hospital Service was passed.

Digitized by v^-ooQle
— 179 —

An extensive scheme for a federal system of sickness insurance is outlined by the commission providing for a national sickness insurance commission composed of representatives of employers and employees in equal ratio, with the federal commissioner of labor statistics and the surgeon-general of the Public Health Service as ex officio members. It is interesting and encouraging to note, among the most important recommendations of the commission in this direction, that "correlation of the insurance system with the medical profession, the lack of which has been a serious defect in German and British systems, is absolutely necessary.” Any one who has followed the development of industrial insurance abroad will admit that the opposition or at least the half-hearted cooperation of the medical profession, owing to the inequitable system of compensation and to the fact that no consideration was given to the medical profession in framing the various insurance schemes, has been a most important factor in the partial failure of these insurance systems-A trained medical profession is absolutely essential for the successful operation of any industrial insurance plan. The terms on which physicians are asked to assist in the operation of such a system should be fair and such as will enable them to do justice to their responsibilities. This has not been true either in England or in Germany. More than this the physician does not ask. Less than this he should not be expected to accept. The recommendations of the commission on sickness insurance and on the improvement of health conditions among wage earners are worthy of the most careful consideration both by employers and by labor unions.

Ed. Journ. A. M. A. Oct. 23,1915

THE PROBLEM OF SANITARY SWIMMING POOLS

Swimming is gaining an increasing popularity as a wholesome form of physical exercise and relaxation, and the swimming pool has become an adjunct to all sorts of establishments which promote physical welfare. With the swimming pool have come certain problems of hygiene which tax the ingenuity of those responsible for the sanitary control of the institutions. The possibility of transmitting infectious diseases through pools has already been referred to in The Journal* Perhaps, as has lately been implied, the danger of infection in swimming pools has been overemphasized, although there are recorded reports of the presence of

*	1.	The	Sanitation of Swimming Pools, The Journal A. M. A., April 24, 1915-

p. 1427; the Practical Disinfection of Swimming Pcols, Current Comment, July 10,1915, p. 176.

Digitized by i^ooQle
— 180 —

grip, colds, pneumonia, sore throats, etc., among those who have frequented the pools in certain educational institutions.

Although the problem of pool disinfection has received considerable attention, there seems still to be not a little discrepancy in the results and lack of agreement as to the ideal procedure for securing entirely satisfactory sanitary conditions. Levine, f of the Iowa State College at Ames, regarding the swimming tank as a “potential vehicle of infection/' has reinvestigated various suggested methods and compared their efficiency. He clearly points out that the use of chlorin, as it is applied in the familiar routine with bleaching powder, has not solved the question of the sanitary control of swimming pools as it has that of water supplies for drinking purposes. A water supply after treatment is protected against repollution. A swimming pool is constantly receiving pollution and should therefore constantly be disinfected.

It has been pointed out by Roberts ft that, in addition to continuous disinfection, an occasional complete sterilization of swimming pools would be advantageous. Copper sulphate, free chlorin and “bleach" have been recommended, the latter being most commonly employed. The hypochlorite process is doubtless excellent for its purpose; but the rapid decomposition of the bleaching powder, its irritant effect on the eyes, and other reputed objectionable features tend to eliminate this chemical for use in any continuous disinfection process. Levine has found that continuous filtration may effect a very considerable reduction in the bacterial count of swimming pools; but this is not enough to maintain them in sanitary condition. Filtration should therefore be supplemented with disinfection. Although calcium hypochlorite may advantageoulsy be used at intervals, Levine returns to the recommendation of copper sulphate in this field. It is cheap, it has no irritating effect, and its disinfectant action is slower and consequently more applicable to continuous disinfection, than that of hypochlorite. If it is added just prior to the opening of the pool for use, the maximal efficiency of the copper salt will be exerted during the period of maximal pollution.

The acceptance of some dependable standard method of pool disinfection which could be readily applied by persons without technical training in the swimming tanks, which are becoming yearly more numerous and popular, would advance the cause of the public health. Doubtless the time will come when a sanitary

t 2. Levine, Max:	The	Sanitary	Control of Swimming Pools, Jour. Infect.

Dis.f 1916, xviii, 293.

tt 3. Roberts:	Eng.	News,	1912,	lxvii, 73.

Digitized by kjOOQle
— 181 —

standard will be recognized for plunges as it is for various other situations which concern the hygienic welfare of the individual. Meanwhile it may be helpful to report the latest contribution to the subject. According to the Iowa experiments, filtration supplemented by disinfection with one part per million of copper sulphate three times a week, and, if desired, an occasional sterilization with calcium hypochlorite, will keep a swimming tank in good sanitary condition for several months.

For a pool 25 by 60 feet with an average depth of 6 feet this would mean a little less than 1-2 pound of copper sulphate three times a week.

A pound of copper sulphate costs fifty cents.

Editorial Journal, Am. Med. Assoc. April 1, 1916.

PHYSICAL PREPAREDNESS

Military service, whatever its desirbility from other points* of view, has at least one merit: It tends to bring out the facts with regard to the physical efficiency of the male population. Nations seldom take stock of the physical conditions of their citizens except for military purposes. Sometimes the exigencies of war bring to light unwelcome facts. Whether or not universal military service is, on the whole, a good thing for any nation, there can be no doubt that it would be most wholesome and enlightening if the physical conditions of the populace were brought under a scrutiny at least as rigid and impartial as that of the medical examining officer — if it were written down in our national account books just how many of our citizens possess fairly sound vital organs and how many have been weakened by disease or wrong conditions of living; how many are in reasonable command of fairly developed muscular systems, how many are flabby and enfeebled from luxury and overindulgence, and how many exhausted and drained of their strength by overwork; how many are duly nourished, how many overfed and how many underfed. E. E. Rittenhouse, * in an address advocating the establishment of a national vitality commission, quotes the experience of a civilian member of last summer's Plattsburg camp. The Plattsburg regiment was recruited largely from men above the average in physical respects— outdoor and athletic men, such as polo and football players and big game hunters. Yet after a month's vigorous training the regiment as a whole was unable to accomplish a day's march a third as long as that of the regular infantry. “If this is the experience:

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 182 —

of self-selected soldiers who undertook the work because they knew of their own trained physical condition,” asks Mr. Rittenhouse, “bow long would it take to ‘rebuild’ a regiment of men from our large body of untrained citizens composed partly of men from the great physically low-powered group?” It is more than probable that a searching investigation would discover us as a nation to be fundamentally — that is, physically — equally “unprepared” for peace and for war.—	Current Comment Journal,A. M. A. April 29, 1916.

OVERACTIVITY IN ATHLETIC SPORTS

In a recent survey* of the physiologic aspects of sport in ancient and modem times it is stated that:|

The Greeks lifted their sports to a higher level than ours by surrounding them with imagination and making them a training in esthetics as well as in physical excellence. The American idea is too closely connected with the mere wish to win and the perform-. ance of mere “stunts,” and not enough with the idea of beauty of physique and control of the body. There is accumulating considerable evidence that college athletics often seriously injure those who engage in them, although they were originated and encouraged for precisely the opposite effect. The value of exercise consists not in developing large muscles nor in accomplishing athletic feats, hut in attaining physical poise, symmetry of form, and the harmonious adjustment of the various parts of the body, as well as m furthering the proper activity of cell tissues and organs and the elimination of waste products.

This conclusion is quite in accord with the considerations of fins subject that have repeatedly appeared in The Journal. The problem of how to deal with the situation of athletic sports in our educational institutions, particularly the strenuously competitive sports like football and rowing, deserves far more serious study than it has ever received. Opinions must be fortified by statistics as to the actual health of college athletes in their afterlife and the possible correlation of bodily ills or defects with undesirable athletic activities. Mortality or morbidity statistics are not yet sufficiently abundant to merit dependence on them, especially in view of the manifold agencies for harm that play on

* Fisher, Irving, and Fisk, E. G.: How to Live, New York, 1915, p. 96.

•f Anderson, W. G-: Farther Studies in the Longevity of Yale Athletes, Med., Times, March, 1916.

Digitized by uooQle
— 183 —

the individual. The persons engaged in the furtherance of athletic sports are, in the main, so enthusiastic about the promotion of physical well-being by the collegiate games that their statements often smack of prejudice. Critical statements and warning evidence on the other side of the question must actually be sought out if they are to enter into the controversy regarding the value of competitive sports. In view of this, a statement of the direc-torf of the Yale University gymnasium, who could scarcely be suspected of being an antagonist of athletics, merits special emphasis:

If I were asked to give an opinion, not based on statistics but on observation, as to the danger which is now present or threatened, I have no hesitation in saying that they (athletics) are too strenuous, the athlete is pushed beyond the limits of safety, he is sacrificed to win games, and the influence of such overactivity has reached the boys in the preparatory schools where it continues to develop harm.

Gary System. “Educational Standards” copies the following from the “Independent,” March 27, 1916. “The Gary school system has many defects. In spite of these defects, however, the Gary school system is superior to any other school system with which the writer (Austin H. Fritz, Sup’t. of Schools, Norwood, Mass.) is familiar, for it touches the life of the child at more points. The shops and the auditorium broaden and deepen the child’s understanding of his environment; and the gymnasia, the swimming pools, and the playground accelerate his physical development. In spite of claims to the contrary it is the judgment of the writer that this enrichment of the curriculum cannot be had without an increase in expenditure. It is equally the conviction of the writer that Gary and its school-children get more per dollar of expenditure than do the people of other communities.”

Fresh Air Schools.—Three teachers from the’open-air schools, Indianapolis, talked to the social workers on “The Fresh Air School in the Anti-tuberculosis Fight,” at a recent meeting held in the rooms of the Charity Organization Society. The purpose of this meeting was to explain the need of the open-air schools and to keep the so-

Digitized by
— 184 —

cial workers informed as to the work accomplished by the school. According to the teachers’ report, there have been surprising results in physical and mental strength of sick children and normal children in the schools. The technical school opened last year with an enrollment of twenty-two children. These children gained an average of 7.83 pounds each during the time they were in the school. This year the enrollment is fifty; the gain in pounds for each child has been 5.96 being decreased to some extent through the rapid gaining of normal size of those who were there last year and who returned this year. The Indianapolis school board employs the teachers and has built two sleeping porches. The Anti-tuberculosis Society provided the water, gas and lunches for those who cannot afford to pay for their own. The society also pays car fare when the children are too poor to pay it. The children in the public schools are examined by physicians and when a child is found to be suffering with a mild case of tuberculosis it is placed on the waiting list. In accordance with a resolution of the city school board the parents of forty children in two consecutive grades in any school could have an open-air room if a teacher could be obtained to teach the children. The restriction on opening such schools is to keep the additional expense as low as possible.

THE EARLY RECOGNITION OF HEART DISEASE

Greater accuracy of diagnosis and better statistics will hardly account for the remarkable increase in recent years in the percentage of deaths from heart disorders. Certain factors have attained deserved prominence as potential causes of arteriocardiac disease. Among these, competitive athletics, modern business life, acute infections and especially syphilitic infection are to be noted. But while the etiologic factors are fairly well known, and their evil effects can be traced definitely, the fact remains that the first warning of serious cardiac disease is too often a sudden collapse of cardiac compensation and a varying degree of irremediable damage to the heart muscle.

The responsibility for this situation does not rest entirely with the physician, because every person over 40 owes it to himself to have a periodic medical overhauling, and advice as to prevention of these and other chronic affections. There remains, however, not a small share of responsibility for the physician, because too often when he is consulted, he falls into one of two errors: Either he does not make a thorough and complete examination, or else he does not appraise accurately certain definite but not prominent

Digitized by LjOOQle
— 185 —

symptoms which are none the less guideposts to future trouble.

The recognition of the signs and symptoms of decompensation seldom fails. But how many times the hurried practitioner prescribes a tonic for the patient who comes complaining simply of tiredness and constant fatigue, even with a hasty examination failing to elicit organic changes and concomitant symptoms which would at once incriminate the heart! Not every man who is tired has heart disease, fortunately. But weariness, lassitude and decreased ambition do very often mark the first weakening of the circulation, and whether they are due to cardiac or other origin, it is the obligation of the physician to recognize them as abnormal conditions and seek further light in the examination and history.

These early signs of a weakening heart include a tendency toward breathlessness on ascending a flight of stairs, or running a few steps for a car, or walking up a hill. This is not dyspnea, and the patient may have it called to his attention only by the careful questions of the physicians. Under similar conditions there may be only a sense of tightness in the chest or even of pain, which may wear gradually away or disappear at once on a few minutes’ rest. Palpitation or acceleration of the heart’s rate- may not be noted. Sometimes the patient will admit that at night there is a little puffiness around his shoe tops, or that the feet seem somewhat swollen. There may be occasional spots and bright lights before the eyes, with a transient giddiness. Many of these symptoms pass unnoticed until recalled at the physician's questioning.

The routine examination of the heart at this stage may show some well marked valvular or other lesion, but there will often be found only such signs as a hasty examination is most apt to overlook. These may be merely a change in the quality of the first sound with a slight increase in cardiac dulness, or there may be associated an irregular pulse volume. Always in this field symptoms should receive equal or greater weight than physical signs.-

Attention to these apparently trivial points will reveal many a case of cardiac disease at a stage when a modification in the regimen will of itself delay or prevent further progress. As has been said of pulmonary tuberculosis, it is not the too often impossible early diagnosis of cardiac disease which is to be emphasized, but the earlier diagnosis. Considered in the light of morbidity and mortality statistics, the earliest possible recognition of cardiac disease is just as important as the early diagnosis of tuberculosis. To detect it in this stage is usually to be able to add years or decades of useful life to the measure of what would otherwise occur.

Journal A. M. A. April 1, 1916.

Digitized by LjOOQie
— 186 —

PREVENTABLE FORMS OF MENTAL DISEASE.

Among the diseases mentioned by Dr. E. L. Abbot of Waverly, in the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal April 20, CLXXIV, No. 16, are feeblemindedness; dementia praecox; manic-depressive psychoses; psychoses due to destructive diseases of the brain; toxic psychoses and a more or less heterogeneous group. For each group he discusses the causes or theories as to cause and then points out how preventive measures may be applied effectively. Feeblemindedness in the parents, he says, is the chief cause of feeblemindedness in the child. To prevent it in children, matings of defective persons must be prevented. The best and most effective prevention is segregation in schools and colonies for the feebleminded, especially of the moron girls and women during the period when they are capable of bearing children. He is of the opinion that an indefinite number of persons may be prevented from developing dementia praecox, if they can be taught in childhood and youth to adopt more healthy attitudes toward life. Parents and teachers should begin at the first appearance of ‘‘queer” traits, perhaps even, zs early as infancy, and continue till adult life, to make unremitting, tactful and sympathetic efforts to get into the little mind, to understand its point of view, to suggest happier and healthier ones, to lead the child to more objective and so more healthful contacts and interests, to teach more practical substitutions and aims, better ways of reacting and better attitudes, towards persons and life.

The manic-depressive psychoses suggest to Abbot fatigue psychoses, and he treats them on that basis. If the conditions which cause the fatigue persist, the symptoms grow worse and develop into the depressions, the excitements, or the stuporous and sometimes delirious and delusional states of the manic-depressive psychoses. Perhaps, Abbot says, a half, possibly more, of the manic-depressive psychoses might be prevented if every one, especially those who tire easily, and those who have already had one breakdown, would take pains to learn what things cause fatigue; if they would recognize early what symptoms mean fatigue; if they would realize that persistence in the fatiguing conditions and conduct may mean a breakdown; if they would recognize that the cure of fatigue is rest and food, not more or different activity; and if the tired person would not think himself an exception to the general rule, but would apply to his own case the principles that he can see would apply to any one else. Besides this,

Digitized by L^ooQle
— 187 —

if each person would realize that his endurance is limited, would' find its limits, and would keep within them, far fewer manic-depressive patients would be admitted to hospitals, and there would be far less “nervous prostration/'

Organic brain disease and the toxic psychoses, especially the alcoholic, are also discussed. By far the most important part of the toxic group, Abbot states, is alcoholic insanity—a wholly preventable psychosis, for no one would have it if he did not drink-Fully twelve and one-half per cent., one-eighth of all admissions* to the hospitals for the insane, are due directly to this cause; and In an indefinite number of other psychoses the use of alcohol is an important contributing factor. Abbot emphasizes that movements which seek to educate the public as to the exact facts, without prejudice, exaggeration or sentiment, are the best. For an intelligent and educated public sentiment will back up restrictive-measures which aim at wholesale protection against the evils of alcoholism, by rigidly restricting the sale of that which causes them-Abbot believes that if every one knew what the effects of alcohol really are, its internal use would be almost limited to the prescription of physicians.

How Can Slight Enlargement of Heart be Detected?—The importance of skillful physical examination and careful history as a means of discovering abnormality in the circulatory system and slight signs of enlargement of the heart are emphasized by Dr. G. CL Shattuck, Boston, in the “Boston Medical and Surgical Journal March 16, CLXXIV, No. 11, pp. 371-406. When findings are inconclusive, he says, an examination with the fluoroscope may quickly clear up the diagnosis. In other cases an orthodiagram or a. teleoroentgenogram may provide important information by showing slight abnormality in the outline or measurements of the heart. Even with good technic none of these methods is faultless, and normal heart size is variable. Therefore, enlargement should be judged, not by millimeters, but by centimeters. By using heart measurements, Shattuck says, it should be possible to detect enlargements of two centimeters in transverse diameter of the heart in most cases, but enlargements of three centimeters may occur without exceeding the maximum figures and in such cases abnormality may be difficult to demonstrate. Abnormal shape may give the earliest evidence by hypertrophy. As to the relative merits of orthodiagraphy and of teleoroentgenography, neither method is satisfactory without proper equipment, nor in the hands of one unfamiliar with its difficulties and possible sources of error.

Digitized by CjOOQle
— 188 —

FATIGUE AND GASTRO-INTESTINAL MOTILITY

The movements of the alimentary tract are regulated not pnly “by local nerve centers in the walls of the canal itself, but also through impulses which arrive from the central nervous system. In this way many influences which may even in part be conflicting in their effect can play on the gastro-intestinal tract at the same time. With the possibility of disturbing influences coming to portions of the intestine either reflexly through the central nervous mechanism or from other parts of the digestive apparatus, it is not surprising that discrepancies have arisen in regard to the interpretation of the motor phenomena. Observations of the gastro-intestinal motility by means of Roentgen examinations, which leave the organism intact and are applicable even to man, have a decided advantage, therefore, whenever it is desired to consider the general ■effect of any condition on this function. ’ This lends a special value to Kast’s recent study of the effect of fatigue on gastro-intestinal movements.* Fifty-four individuals were kept on a standard diet for a number of days, and the motor efficiency of the stomach and intestines was determined repeatedly by a combination of the Roentgen method, the use of the stomachr tube, and the administration of carmin to determine the period of transit of food residues through the bowel. By taking the average, it was determined liow long it took the stomach, and separately, how long it took the intestines, to propel the given amount of food. During the period of tests, the amount of physical activity was markedly increased or decreased, and the effect on the evacuating power of the stomach or intestines observed. At other times, without change in the diet or the amount of physical exercise, the amount of mental efforts was markedly increased or decreased, and the effect observed in the same manner. Summarizing the results of such experiments, it appears that the healthy individual showed very little variation as regards the evacuating power of the stomach or Intestines as long as the physical exercise was not excessive. Mental efforts had no perceptible effect. In patients with moderate and marked degrees of atony and splanchnoptosis, the evacuating power of the stomach and intestines decreased in direct proportion to the amount of mental and physical exertion. Physical exertion had the same effect in such individuals if the patient was kept in a horizontal position during these exercises and during the period of observation in order to eliminate the effect of splanchnoptosis in the erect position. In patients who clinically appeared susceptible to the effects of fatigue, mental exertion was more marked in its delaying effect than physical exertion.

* Kast, L.:	Effect	of	Fatigue	upon

■ Soc. Exper. Biol, and Med., 1916, xiii, 79.

Gastro-intestinal Motility, Proc

Digitized by

Google
■   —i—   "       

ATHLETIC NOTES	j

................. ii ....  win.a—«— m. .....  (J

E. HAUG, Dewitt Clinton High School New York City.

D.	V. A. Smith, of the Illinois Athletic Association, world's-, champion plunger, broke the world’s record for the 75-foot plunge in the Missouri Athletic Association tank at St. Louis, Mo. Smith plunged the distance in 50 1-5 seconds breaking the former record of 52 seconds made five years ago by John Yichter.

Frederick W. Kelly, international champion high hurdler,, bettered the record for the 220-yards low hurdles on a curved track making it in 24 2-5 s. in a sanctioned exhibition race. The previous record was 24 4-5 s., established in 1908, and equalled last year by Kelly.

Tad Cann, 19 years old, member of the New York Athletic Club decisively beat Duke Kahanamoku in the 500 yard championship swimming race held in the Missouri Athletic Club at St. Louis. April 22. His time was 6:24 2-5.

Howard P. Drew, the negro Los Angeles sprinter broke his own record for 90 yards at the Smart Set Games in New York last month. He carried, the distance in 9 seconds flat, clipping off 1-5 second of his former record established in 1914.

Howard Berry, the all-around athlete of the University of Pennsylvania, won the pentathlon, one of the feature events of the twenty-second annual relay race carnival held on Franklin Field Philadelphia April 28. The Pennsylvanian, also won the events making up the pentathlon—Broad jump, javelin throw, 200-meter race, discus throw, and 1,500-meter race.

Pennsylvania won the sprint medley relay race for the American college championship in the world’s record time of 3:28 3-5.

The former record was 3:33 2-5. made by Pennsylvania last year. Wisconsin captured the distance medley relay race for the championship in hollow style, her only near competitor being Pennsylvania.

Another record to go was that for throwing the 56-pound weight, H. White of Syracuse University heaving it 31 feet 5 inches,, which betters the collegiate record by 4 feet 1-2 inch.

Digitized by ^ooQle
— 190 —

PHYSICAL TRAINING PREFERABLE TO MILITARY

TRAINING

Physical, but not military, training in elementary and high schools was urged recently by Dr. George L. Meylan, Medical Director of the Columbia University Gymnasium, who spoke to the High School Teachers' Association of New York City at the High School of Commerce, 155 West Sixty-fifth Street. The association voted to print the address and send it to the Board of Education/

‘"Before we can have good soldiers," Dr. Meylan said, “we must have good strong men. Last year I examined 352 Freshmen who entered Columbia, and only forty-seven of them were in what I called Class A. That is only forty-seven had the physical development and education necessary to handling their bodies in the ordinary activities of life. Perhaps, twenty or twenty-five per cent of them would have passed the physical examination for admission to the army.

‘"These figures are, of course, not conclusive, but I think they indicate that if we should be called upon to raise an army quickly we could count upon only a small percentage of our young men for effiicient military service. We must realize that, as a nation, our young men are not physically fit.

“Now what is the remedy for this? Military drill in the public schools has been suggested, but I am convinced that this is not the proper beginning, that it would not accomplish the desired result. It would be neither real physical training nor adequate military training. It is not feasible, in any event, because cif the equipment, time, and expense.

“It seems to me that if we give the public school students physical training as such—in other words, if we make them physically prepared—the purely technical military training can be taught them easily later. It is my opinion, therefore, that we should have physical, and not military training in the schools. Also we should teach the school students at least a rudimentary knowledge of sanitation and hygiene.

“I would include in the physical training of boys, first, very little inarching, only enough to make the handling of large numbers easy; second, calisthenics, and third, athletics and games with moderate use of gymnastic apparatus."

Digitized by v^ooQle
— 191 —

Many of the readers of Mind and Body will learn with regret that Mr. George Ehler has resigned from his position as head of the physical training department in the University of Wisconsin at Madison.

Judging from the available reports Mr. Ehler became tired of continually fighting for the athletic activity of the masses of students against the desires of overzealous Alumni members who were interested only in turning out winning teams.

It is a pity that the unbounded enthusiasm of a man like Ehler should be lost to a great state institution, and that, perhaps, because of his going, athletics for gate receipts should gain a foothold at Madison.

Housing and Health.—Health News, issued by the United States Public Health Service, April 19, announces that plans have been completed for the erection of a series of model homes in the city of Washington to demonstrate the relationship between good housing and good health. They are to be known as the Ellen Wilson Homes and are not an experiment, but a demonstration. Congress has enacted a law which goes into effect July 1, 1918, by which all alley buildings in the district must cease to be used for dwelling purposes. Congress, in its act incorporating the Ellen Wilson Homes, limited the dividends to 5 per cent, net, but this enterprise will yield a far greater dividend, not in cash, but in satisfaction because of needed work well done.

BOOK REVIEWS

“Mother Goose in Song and Play” by Olive Knorr, Cincinnati.

The visitors to the Cincinnati convention of the American Physical Education Association in April will be glad to learn that Miss Knorr has published the music, words and the description of the delightful little song games she showed there. These games were "Hickory, Dickory, Dock”, "Little Miss Muffet” "Little Jack Horner”, and "Bah, Bah, Black Sheep”. All are printed on a four page pamphlet 7 by 10 inches. Price 25 cents, per hundred $10.00. Address Olive Knorr, 3100 Glendora Ave., Cincinnati, O.

Digitized by
— 192 —

“The Playground Book”, by Harry Sperling, Head of the department of physical training, Eastern District high school, Brooklyn, New York. 105 pages, 8 1-2 by 11 1-2 inches, illustrated. Published by the A. L. Barnes Company, New York City. Price $1.80.

In this helpful book Mr. Sperling, who has a large experience in practical playground work, presents to teachers a selection of the best games, dances and athletic events. Hints on folk dancing, good points for the teacher and several short essays on recreation, programs, etc. make the book valuable not only for playground teachers, but for teachers in general.

“More Song Games” by Kate F. Bremner, mistress of method under the Edinburg school board. 42 pages, 81-2 by 111-2 inches. Illustrated. Published by the A. L. Barnes Company, New York City. Price $1.50.

As indicated in the title this book is a compilation of additional song games by the author of “Song games and ball games.” In the present volume Miss Bremner presents 32 so ig games for young children with their musical accompaniments. Although there are suggested actions with most of the songs, the author recommends that the children be allowed to interpret the songs in their own ways.

“Elements of Physiology and Sanitation” by Louis J. Rettger, Ph. D. Professor of Physiology, Indiana State Normal School. Terre Haute, Indiana. 389 pages, 5 1-2 by 7 1-2 inches. Illustrated. Published by the A. L. Barnes Company, New York City. Price 80 cents.

The author has grouped his material under two headings: 1st to give to the student a reasonable understanding and appreciation of the subjects, 2nd to give to him through the knowledge gained by simple experiments the power to discuss the fundamental facts underlying the foundations of health. At a time when the emphasis in all school subjects is away from the mere acquirement of facts, and toward the gaining of knowledge through personal experimentation the book should be a valuable help to teachers and students.

The Soul of Enjoyment.—Health is the soul that animates all enjoyments of life, which fade and are tasteless, if not dead, without it.—Sir William Temple.

Digitized by ^ooQie