--- Page 2 ---
> A No. 6 — 1 SEPTEMBER 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF
G-5 DIVISION
USFEF

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
TNA

—— BRITISH ZONE — ——

bce N

E2c2e
|

BREMEN ENCLAVE RUSSIAN ZONE

CZEGHO- =
SLOVAKIA=

202 MBER
[URZBU BERG

Nee 4
a6 eA y)
FURTH! LL.
SNBERG
3

Pi

— MAIN ROUTES IST 8 2ND CL
--* DISTRICT R@AD IST CLASS

AUSTRIA

SOURCE: G-5, USFET STATISTICS SECTION =

x
i
+ SEC GEN STAFF USFET—
_"

--- Page 4 ---
No. 6 — 1 SEPTEMBER 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY |
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE
ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF
G-5 DIVISION. -
USFET

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---
CONTENTS

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY .
Restoring German Administrative Machinery .
Politics and Military Government .
Civil Communications in Germany
Germany's Agricultural Future .

German Economic Control Established

GENERAL .
Mil Gov Conference Closes
ECAD Ends 19 Months Service . Le
Army Uniforms Prohibited For Non- Military Pe Personnel
Local Printing of Textbooks Forbidden °
Mass Repatriation of Poles Expected Soon .
Sugar for German Children Only .
Second Mil Gov Regiment Sponsors Weekly .
Bells For Biidingen .

GERMAN REACTIONS
Church and Politics .
Some Leftist Political Views .
On Second Thought .

LESSONS FROM OPERATIONS

PRESS COMMENTS
Successful Occupation Key to Final Victory
Occupation Policies
Wieviel kostet es?

Future of German Science

Press Comments atRandom . . . 1. 1.

QUERIES.

PERSONAL DATA  ..

PAGE

NY OO: @O N WW

15
16
18
18
18
18
19
19

20
20
20
21

23

25
25
26
26
27
27

29

31

--- Page 6 ---
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Restoring German Administrative Machinery

THE MISSION of Internal Affairs
Branch, G--5, U. S. Forces, European
Theater, is the cgntrol, coordination
and supervision of the local Govern-
ment and civil service, public safety,
education and religious affairs, tele-
communications and postal services, and
public welfare of the US Zone in Ger-
many.

The policy is not to govern the Ger-
man. people but to eontrol and super-
vise them in governing themselves. To
accomplish this there are now 284 Mili-
tary Government Detachments in’ the
US Zone, varying in size frgm about
four officers and six enlisted men to a
hundred or more officers and a cor-
responding number of enlisted per-
sonnel.

The German Government is being re-
organized from the bottom up. This
reorganizition, which is now about
35 per cent complete, is a slow, tedious
process, as capable non-Nazis are diffi-
cult to locate.

The Local Government and Civil Ser-
vice Section of Internal Affairs Branch
supervises German Government at
regional, Regierungsbezirk. and local
levels and formulates policies for the
handling of political activity. It also
formulates policies for the preservation
and use of public records and archives,
the use to be made of the civil service
system, the dissolution of Nazi govern-
ment units and the disposition of such
of their activities as jt may be desired

_to salvage, and the .utilization of Ger-
man civil administrative channels.

The Public Safety Section is largely
concerned with the reorganization of
the police departments, but through its
Special Branch activities, it has the
‘responsibility for insuring that Nazis
are eliminated from government, trade,
transportation, communications, and all
industries. It also supplies other agencies
with information on potential employees.
Recently this Section worked with the
Transportation Branch of G—5 on the
reestablishment of the German system
of vehicle registration.

COMPLETE DECENTRALIZATION

Policy requires the complete decentra-
lization of the German police depart-
ments so that they come directly under
the jurisdiction of local Birgermeiéers.
Police schools were established soon
after Aachen fell to the Allies and these
early schools furnished police cadre
for many of the departments and
-many for may of the departments and
formed the framework upon which
police, reorganization rested. Originally
the police were disarmed but it has been
found necessary to rearm them in some
cases. This is being done locally when-
ever the situation. warrants such action.

Policy also demands a ‘completely
separate German fire service from the
police service and the fire departments
have been reorganized on a decen-
tralized basis with no administrative or

--- Page 7 ---
operational control above a Kreis level,

although mutual aid agreements be- |

tween adjoining fire services is per-
mitted. p

The Education and Religious Affairs
Section’ Coordinates implementation of
plans and policies for the supervision of

German educational and religious institu-,

tions. It provides technical ‘assistance in
elementary and secondary education and
religious affairs, and German edu-
cational administration and personnel
’ practices. It also inspects German school
practices, conducts in-service training
programs for Education Officers
through conferences, technical bulletins,
“etc., and serves as a clearing agency
for the inspection and approval of
supplementary teaching materials.

EDUCATION BEING REVIVED

The German Ministry of Education
and Religion is being revived through-
out the U. S. Zone in a tentative form
as a basis for the limited functions of
the Ministry. The old controls exercised
formerly by the Kulturministerium have
not been restored. to the Ministry as
yet. The chief responsibility of the
Ministry at present are: to develop and
disseminate, with the assistance of Mili-
tary Government, a new philosophy of
education along democratic lines; to

reorganize the internal operations of.

the Ministry in preparation for the time
when authority will be restored to the
Ministry, in respect to personnel, re-
cords, statistics, guiding principles of
control, -past agreements .and practices,
etc; and finally, to ‘assist the present
effort to reopen schools for the 6 to
14-year-old age group and provide for
the reorientation and training of in-
experienced teachers.

Vetting of personnel, inspection of

buildings, registration of pupils and
other preliminaries are handled on the
Kreis level by German authorities under
the supervision of Military Government.
Emergency Teachers’ Training Institutes
will be under the direction of local
authorities rather than under the
Ministry as formerly. The Ministry,
however, has sent a representative to
assist the local authorities and to collect
information of ultimate value | in
assessing the value of this program.
Similarly, preliminary vetting of uni-
versity faculties is done locally, with
reports sent through Military Govern-
ment channels to G—5, USFET. The
final appointment or dismissal is made
by the Ministry, according to instruc-

_tions received from the Education and

Religious Affairs Section.

Until the development of a detailed
plan for financing this program has
been -a€complished, the. salaries of
teachers will be paid through offices
of the Ministry located in the Kreise.
The financing ‘and distribution of
emergency textbooks, now being
printed by Military Government, will
be handled by the Ministry as the re-
sponsible financial agency. Details by
which the Ministry will be reimbursed
and the manner of actual distribution
of the textbooks still remain. to be
worked out by Military Government.

CONTROL OF REICHSPOST

Telecommunications and Postal Sec-
tion formulates policies and gives

“general supervision to matters con-

cerning the operation and control of the.
Reichspost and all its functions in the
U..S. Zone. -It cooperates with other
staffs in determining and implementing
joint policies affecting Reichspost
operations and services, prepares and

--- Page 8 ---
issues orders and directives pertaining
to the operation of the Reichspost in
the U. S. Zone of responsibility, and
prepares staff studies and makes re-
commendations concerning the Military
Government personnel requirements for
PTT activities.

Postal services have been opened in
practically all of the larger cities in the
U. S. Zone and in many of the smaller
towns and villages. The initial service
provided for the exchange of personal
or social messages by postcards, but
this has been extended to: permit com-
munications of Military Government and
essential commercial and welfare ex-
changes to be transmitted in envelopes
under proper censorship surveillance.
Intra-city and intra-village postal service
will be extended to permit inter-city and
inter-community exchanges as rapidly
as transportation facilities permit.

POST CHECK SYSTEM

Some of the Reichspost banking ser-
«vices have been resumed such as post
check system for payment of taxes,
insurance fees, and small bills; also the
payment of certain pensions and welfare
allowances under controlling directives.
In some offices the postal money order
system has also been resumed.

The progressive expansion of the
services of the Reichspost must neces-
sarily be attuned to the availablity of
adequate and serviceable buildings,
quarters, equipment and transportation
facilities, as well as acceptable civilian
personnel, and sufficient Military Gov-
ernment personnel to properly super-
vise and control the service operations.

The postage stamp problem in the
U. S. and British Zones has become
acute because of the rapid exhaustion

of the first supply due to the expansion
of the services on a greater scale than
originally anticipated. Comprehensive
surveys have been made to determine
the possibility of having Allied Military
Government postage stamps printed
within the U. S. Zone of Occupation.

RESTORE DIRECTORATES

The reorganization and restoration
of the Reichspost within the U. S. Zone
is proceeding on'a plan of restoring
Regional Directorates to be subordin-

_ ated later to a central authority for the

supervision and control of all Reichs-
post postal and financial operations.

Considerable progress has been made
in the rehabilitation of civilian telephone
facilities for the use of army and ci-
vilian. authorities only. Intra-city tele-
phone service has been established in
most cities having facilities beyond
military requirements and where per-
sonnel was available. Common use of
exchanges by both military and civilians
has been authorized. General civilian
inter-city telephone service will become
available slowly.

A civilian telegraph service is to be
restored as facilities become available.

The restoration of a telecommuni-
cations service for general civilian use
has been and continues to be handicap-
ped by the difficult repair and rehabili-
tory problem of the physical plant; the
shortage of materials, of tools, and of
transportation for material and men,
and by the shortage of qualified tech-
nical personnel due to dispersal, de-
nazification, and the complete break-
down of the Berlin Ministry.

Public Welfare Section controls and
supervises the German Welfare pro-
grams including: public assistance, care

--- Page 9 ---
of dependent children and the aged and
physically handicapped and control of
juvenile delinquency, in cooperation
with Education and Religious Affairs
Section. It is responsible for the tech-
nical supervision of Military Govern-
ment Public Welfare operations through
field inspections, reports and procedural
recommendations and technical liaison
with U. S. Group Control Council re-
garding’ inter-zone public welfare po-
licies and procedures.

Existing Military Government. direc-
tives that .all public assistance paid out
by local German Welfare departments
be given to only proven needy cases and
only in the amount needed to make up
the difference between their own re-
sources and minimum living require-
ments. Relief grants may not exceed
prevailing wages for unskilled labor in
the community, all potentially employ-
able must register for work at local
labor offices, and persons refusing work
without a valid reason will not be paid
relief.

Germans are being required to "help
themselves”. Public Welfare depart-
ments are being set up on a reorganized
and simplified basis at all levels up to
and including the Land. The re-activ-

ation of private benevolent societies is
encouraged: after complete denazifica-
tion their programs cleared by Military
Government: Detachments so as to avoid
unnecessary duplication of effort. In
effect, Military Government is using its
control over German Welfare Agencies
as a positive device or method of teach-
ing Germans that human beings should
all be regarded as human beings and. be
permitted to live normal lives, regardless
of their value” to the state.

Public social welfare services have in
the past years been one of the larger
functions of German government as
measured both by the number of
employees engaged in public wel-
fare work- and by the actual ex-
penditures. for assistance and services.
One effect of the war has been the
increase in the number of people who
are dependent on ‘public care for the
bare necessities of life — food, clothing,
shelter, etc.

With increasing demand and de-
creasing resources it becomes obvious
that German welfare agencies must
make ”a little go a long way” if suf-
fering, disease, and the more violent
manifestations of want are to be
avoided.

--- Page 10 ---
Politics and Military Government

WITH the distribution to local. Mili-
tary Government Detachments of the
detailed directive on political activity
and party organization in the US Zone,
the way has been paved for the pro-
gressive introduction of . democratic
institutions in Germany as called for
in the Potsdam Declaration. This first
step is limited, it is true, and is set about
by many safeguards, all of which, how-
ever, are concerned only with the
preservation of democratic principles.
An experiment is thus being undertaken,
the results of which frankly cannot be
foretold; but if present aims are achieved,
it is anticipated that the scope of po-
litical activity can be quickly expanded.

The formation of political parties has
been initially restricted to the Kreis
because it is believed this is the best
way to encourage local responsibility
and to provide the basis for future Ger-
man democracy and self-government.
It is considered desirable that members
of each community personally get to
know their own leaders, and discuss
each leader’s program and qualifications.
Thus political activity must. first deal
with local problem under the eyes of the
people who know these problems and

now is a favorable time to encourage

the development of those community in-
terests upon which can rest the de-
centralized political structure called for
in the Potsdam Declaration.

MAY PRODUCE LEADERS

It is to be expected, of course, that
certain communities may produce out-
standing leaders. It is not intended to
exclude such leaders from _ broader
activity, and provision has been made

for their participation in meetings out-
side their Kreise. Attendance at meetings
in other Kreise should contribute to a
wider knowledge of local problems.
While there may thus be an interchange-
ablility of speakers between Kreis
party branches, it is nevertheless
thought advisable that party organiza-
tion be confined to the Kreis level and
that sponsors should be held accountable:
for the management of the Kreis party
branch, its activities, its collection and
disbursement of funds, and so forth.

The directive places heavy demands
upon the good judgment and ‘discretion
of local Detachments. The Potsdam De-
claration states that all democratic
parties shall be allowed and encouraged.
It is the concern of the Germans them-
selves, and not of Military Government,
to determine the pattern of these par-
ties, which will vary as between districts
and regions. Nevertheless Military
Government officers should do their.
best to stimulate interest on the part of
individual Germans and help in over-
coming the political apathy reported to
be present among the masses. In general,
the freer and more active discussion
there is between democratic parties
now, the better it will prepare them for
the assumption of greater responsibility
later on. The directive opens the way
for the development of strong, inde-
pendent parties, and genuinely demo-
cratic groups need have nothing to fear
from the undertaking that they shall
submit their officers and programs to
popular vote when required to do so.

In order to orient themselves and to
fulfill their tasks properly, officers from

--- Page 11 ---
Detachments will undoubtedly wish to

attend as many of the authorized’

meetings as possible. They have, more-
‘over, a negative function to perform
in guarding against the emergence of
underground activity and in particular
activity which is undemocratic, mili-
taristic or hostile to Allied aims. In the
event that it provés physically im-
possible for Detachment officers to
attend all meetings and rallies, there
would seem to be no objection to uti-
lizing the services of reliable employees
under proper supervision. It is essential,
however, that Detachment Commanders
maintain a close and continuing in-
terest in German political affairs and at
all times keep themselves fully informed.

Pending an appraisal of ‘the results
of political activity and the eventual
filling of public office by election, which
in turn depend upon the progress made
by the Germans toward real democracy,
no political organizations will be per-

mitted to play a direct role in the deter-
mination of Military Government po-
licy. In the light of observed trends,
however, discretion is left to Military
Government to make desirable changes
in adyisory groups and also in ap-
pointed positions, both present and
future. By proper guidance, moreover,
political activity can be directed toward
assisting in denazification. The privilege
of political activity places:-upon the
Germans themselves a_ corresponding
responsibility in this regard.

Not only during the early stages, but
also ‘as political activity develops,
USFET and the higher echelons will be
largely dependant upon the reports called
for from the units, and the help that
can be afforded in this regard cannot
be too strongly stressed. The added bur-
den entailed is fully appreciated but will
undoubtedly be accepted as part of the
tasks involved in the fulfillment of what
it is hoped will be a positive goal.

Civil Communications in Germany

THE POTSDAM Conference State-
ment clarifies many questions regarding
the type of organization that will su-
pervise communications in Germany.
Communications has been declared to
be a field in which centralized or-
ganization is essential in order to fur-
ther the objectives of the multipartite
occupation. Although no German gov-
ernment exists or will be established in
the initial control period, a central
German administrative department for
communications, headed by a State

Secretary, will be established in Berlin
to act under the. direction of the Control
Council.

~ In view of the traditional control of
both communications and postal ser-
vices by one branch of the government
in European countries and the im-
portance of postal service to the fields
of finance, transport, foreign trade and
industry it is not expected these fields
will be split in the establishment of the
national organization. The term ’Reichs-
post”, however, is destined to go the

--- Page 12 ---
way of other reminders of German ig-
nominy.

UNTRUE STATEMENT

The phrase "reorganization of the
Reichspost”, often heard among com-
munications people, therefore not .only
indicates an oversimplification of the
problem but is“an untrue statement of
our efforts in this field. What we are
doing is creating an organization of ci-
vilians, from wherever we can find
them with suitable qualifications, that
will, from badly battered central offices
and wire lines that have been torn down
and blown up, be able to produce a
communications system that will fur-
nish occupational needs of military and
essential civilian requirements.

Denazification in the communications
field is a serious problem. The Nazis,
realizing the importance of’ Reichspost
people in their intimate contacts with
the public and as local representatives
of the government, tried to make them
not only all members of the party but
to act as block leaders and usg their po-
sition to keep their neighbors in line.
There are indications that in ‘many
cases non-cooperative male employees
were: sent to the Army. We hope to
augment the civil communications per-
sonnel from such former Army mem-
bers. In no case will a former Nazi hold
a position of prominence in the new
organization.

Specific measures have been taken by
Headquarters, U. S. Forces, regarding
denazification procedure. On the 23rd
of July a directive placed the initial re-
sponsibility for denazification and
screening of communications employees
with the Signal Corps rather than with
Military Government Detachments. Spe-

cial Branch machinery of Military Gov-
ernment, Detachments may be utilized
but decisions on removal or retention
shquld be made by the supervising offi-
cer or usirig service and not by the
Special Branch or Military Government
Detachment. On the 4th of August, as a
result of a study of the comparative im-
portance of various positions in the
communications field, a directive was
issued giving a practical guide to appli-
cation of the denazification policy. This
directive stated that all positions in the
communications field below but not in-
cluding Oberpostmann, Amtsrat and
Postamtmann are of minor importance
within the terms of the basic directive
on removal of Nazis and_ militarists.
Therefore, normally removals and ex-
clusions from such positions are not re-
quired but incumbents, if suspect, will
be handled on an individual basis.

JOIN CIVILIAN CIRCUIT

As civilian communications develop it
becomes more evident that steps must
be taken toward the integration of the
civilian system with the facilities being
used for military purposes and that in-
creasingly greater responsibilities must
be placed upon the German civilians.
Authorization has been given to .con-
nect military switchboards to civil sys-
tems on an intra-city or ortsnetz basis
and both military and civilian subscri-
bers may utilize common dial exchanges
in a given location provided civilian
communication has been authorized for
the ortsnetz or that individual civilian
subscribers have been approved by Mili-
tary Government. The ortsnetz is the ba-
sic unit of the telephone network. It
consists of a local exchange with the
lines extending to suburban points. It is

the responsibility of each command to

--- Page 13 ---
establish and enforce appropriate se-
curity safeguards including precautions
to prevent civil subscribers from placing
calls over inter-city or inter-ortsnetz
trunks except with proper authority in
each specific case. German civilians may
be used as telephone or telegraph oper-
ators provided they have been cleared
by Military Government and CIC for
such duty and provisions have been
made for monitoring in accordance with
signal security instructions.

The control of communications has
been and will continue to be a matter
of highest concern to the Signal Corps

and to the Military Government and
G—5 organizations of our Army. The
primary interest of the Signal Corps is
technical efficiency in providing re-
quired service and in implementing the
denazification program. The load of all
other responsibilities of organization
falls upon G—5 and Military Govern-
ment. The joint efforts -of all the Army
agencies concerned are aimed at show-
ing the Germans how to build, in spite
of innumerable difficult obstacles of the
Germans own making, a communication
system that will satisfactorily take care
of their needs and then to see that
THEY do it.

Germany's Agricultural Future

IN VIEW of the ‘recent discussions
and expressions of opinion concerning
the possibility of converting Germany
into a purely agricultural nation, the
following condensation of the 1945-6
Agricultural Production Plan for the
United States Zone is published:

The finally approved total percentage
changes for 1946 over 1944 in the area
to be planted in the principal food crops
is only 114 per cent.

The plan presented to regional offices
for discussion provided for’ a 17 per
cent increase over 1944 in total area of
the principal food crops; wheat, rye,
potatoes, sugar beets, oil seeds and pul-
ses. In each region the extreme urgency
of maximum production of these direct
food crops was emphasized. The Ger-
man production specialists were urged
to consider all possibilities for shifts

10

from feed to food crops and for plow-
ing pastures and meadows. The out-
come was an agreement that a 14 per
cent increase in the area in the above
listed crofs is the maximum feasible.

POTATOES GIVEN FIRST PRIORITY

In accordance with the agreed policy,
potato production was given highest
priority for the use of land and other
sources, The agreed area was 18 per
cent above that in 1944 and is 12 per
cent above that planted this year. The
most serious limitations are the amount
of land suited to potato production and
the probable lack of fertilizer, es-
specially nitrogenous fertilizer. It was
the considered judgment that to increase
further the area planted, which would
necessitate the use of poorer land with
inadequate fertilizer, could not be ex-

--- Page 14 ---
pected “to increase production signi-
ficantly.

In the case of wheat and rye, the pro-
posed increase of 12 per cent agreed to,
although the distribution of the in-
crease by regions was modified. The
larger increases are to be made in Ba-
varia and Wiirttemberg, which appear
to have relatively more land better
adapted to grain production than to
other crops. The planned area is 13 per
cent above that of 1945.

SUGAR BEETS INCREASED

It was considered that sugar beet pro-
duction could be increased, and accor-
dingly a 30 per cent increase was
agreed to. This maximum that the pro-
cessing that the processing plants in the
zone can be expected to handle.

A Five per cent increase in the area
of oil seeds was decided upon, and the
44 per cent increase suggested for pul-
ses was accepted without serious quest-
ion. The total area involved in the in-
crease is not large, but was considered
to be as much as could be counted on
in one year.

No specific quantitative plans were
developed for the other crops, which
include barley, oats, fodder roots, vege-
tables and fruit. It is understood that
maximum vegetable production is to be
emphasized, espicially home gardens
and crops grown for nearby markets.
Barley production is to be held as near
the 1944 level as possible because it will
be used to a considerable extent as a
bread grain. The other crops will com-
pete for such land and othearesources
as are available after provision has been

made for the planned area‘ of the direct

food crops. There will have to be some
reduction in the total area of these

* sult. Nearly all of the sugar beet

11

crops all weil as in the area of meadow
and pasture land. To the extent that the
400,000 hectores of lands formerly used
for military purposes can be used for
crops, .the area of grassland to be
plowed will be reduced. ~

NOT ENOUGH FERTILIZER

One of the major obstacles foreseen
in the accomplishment of the crop plan.
is the acute shortage of fertilizer. In
this case, the critical question is ‘one of
the economiy of extending the area of
cropped onto poorer land with inade-
quate fertilized. The situation is agra-
vated by the fact that applications of
commercial fertilizer have been cur-
tailed during the war, and the reduction
in livestock numbers has reduced
the amount of manure available.

Other obstacles in the approximate
order of importance are:

a. Shortage of seed. :

b. Limitations of area of suitable land
that can be prepared for cropping this

_ fall and next spring.

c. Shortage of draft power.

The quantity of certified seed’ po-
tateos produced in the Zone this year
will be below normal as a result of the
disruption of the movement of found-
ation stock from Pomerania for plan-
ting this spring, and the failure to get
all of the available foundation seed
planted and properly grown. If a larger
part of area is planted with seed that
has has been grown several years in the
Zone some reduction in yields will re-
seed
must-come from outside the Zone, and
likewise a large part of the garden seed.
Normally a part of the rape seed is
renewed from outside. the Zone each

--- Page 15 ---
year, and failure to do this may result
in some reduction in yields.

While the area to be cropped will not
exceed that of 1937, some of the land
cropped at that time needs clearing or
drainage before it can be cropped
again. The availability of labor will
limit the amount of land improvement
that can be done before planting time.

~ DRAFT ANIMALS INADEQUATE

Farm work is now being done on
many farms with one horse pulling a
double rig or with a team. made up of
an ox and a horse, a cow and a horse,
or a pair of cows. This slows the pace
of farm work especially in such ope-
rations as plowing. As a result it re-
duces the efficiency of labor.

Lack of reliable information on live-
stock numbers has made it impossible
to determine the exact adjustments ne-
cessary to bring livestock into balance
with the cropping plan. In bavaria the
German exports estimated that ap-
proximately a 10% overall reduction

_ in some reduction

will be necessary. Numbers now are
about the same as a year age. Most of
the reduction will have to come in
cattle as there are not enough hogs to
account for much of it. This will result
in both meat and
milk production. In Wiirttemberg,
where livestock numbers have .been re- ~
duced during the past year, it is
thought that no further reduction will

_ be necessary. In Baden, some increase

may be possible especially in Middle Ba-
den where the heaviest reduction has
occured. In Kurhessen and Hessen-Nas-
sau livestock numbers have been de-
pleted to the extent that little or no re-
duction will be necessary.

Full agreement “on this plan was
reached with the Military Government
Detachments, and also with the German
specialists although in the case of the
Germans there are undoubtedly some —
unexpressed reservations. Progress has
already been reported for most re-
gions in breaking down the regional
plan on a Kreis basis and in estimating
the requirements for carrying it out. ’

German Economic Control Established

GERMAN authorities and agencies
will soon be utilized in the administra-
tion of the German economy to_ the
maximum extent that is possible with-
out - jeopardizing the successful ex-
ecution of the objectives of the oc-
cupation. The full vetting of all person-
nel. employed in Economic Agencies is
deemed essential, however, as the mere
removal of undesirables is not . con-
sidered sufficient. It is desired that re-

placements be aggressive anti-Nazis. A
Director of Economics in each Land
will be responsible for the direction,
control and supervision of rationing
(other than food), internal trade, in-
dustry, handicrafts, and gas, electric
and water utilities. The Economic Offi-
ces under this responsibility will under-
take the functions for which various
Economic and Trade Groups, syndicates,
etc. were in the past responsible, except,

--- Page 16 ---
of course, those functions which are
contrary to the policy and objectives of
Military Government. The former func-
tions which the Economic Offices will
undertake, include: planning for produc-
tion, licensing of businesses and distri-
bution of production orders, distri-
bution maintenance of records and sta-
tistics and execution of instructions
pertaining to import and export of
commodities across the international
boundaries of Germany.

INDUSTRIAL CONTROL

An industrial Division of each Re-
gional Economic Office will be res-
ponsible for all necessary industrial
control functions, such as the planning
of production; the licensing of produc-
tion; the complication of requirements
for, and the sub-allocation of, fuel, ma-
terials, components and _ semi-finished
goods for industrial purposes; the allo-
cation of orders and production; and
the maintenance of industrial statistics
and records.

A Utilities Division will be established
in each Regional Office in which sep-
arate sections will exercise control
over electric, gas, and water utilities.

A Petroleum Division will be res-
ponsible for the collection and com-
pilation of requirements for all petro-
leum products, allocation to Regie-
rungsbezirke or equivalent areas and to
the Kreise of petroleum products made
available to the Land; rationing; and
control and supervision over the com-
mercial distribution of petroleum pro-
ducts. It will also carry out- prescribed
responsibilities with respect to petro-
leum products for road transport and
for agriculture in conjunction with the
Food and Agriculture Offices.

Regional Forest and Timber Offices
and Mining Offices will also be estab-

13

lished under the Economic Offices in
addition to Price Supervision Offices
and Price Formation Offices.

German authorities will be authorized
to transfer vetted personnel, records and
equipment of. agencies or organizations
that are abolished to agencies which
they are authorized to establish, main-
tain, or reestablish.

FOOD AND AGRICULTURE

In each Land there. will also be
established a Land Food and Agriculture
Administration, within. which there will
be established Divisions for Food and
for Agriculture. Division B of the Re-
gional Food Office will be merged into
the Food Division and Division A of the
Regional Food Office will be merged
into the Agricultural Division. A
Forestry Division also may be included
in the Land Food and Agriculture Ad-
ministration either merged with or
separate from the Regional Forestry
Office.

The major subordinate agencies in
each Land for food and agriculture will

‘be known as Local Food and Agriculture

Offices, and their structure will be
patterned in accordance with the Food
Division and Agriculture Division of the
Land Food and Agriculture Administra-
tion. They will be responsible for the
functiohs for which the Erndhrungs-
amter and the Kreisbauernschaften were
formerly responsible.

The Agriculture Protection Police will
be re-established under the Land Food
and Agriculture Administration as will

the local Forestry Offices unless tmain-
tained as a separate office.

The Regional Marketing Associations,
local Marketing Associations and sub-
ordinate agencies will function under

--- Page 17 ---
\

the ‘Land Food and Agriculture Ad-
ministration and the Local Food and
Agriculture Offices.

The Land, Kreis and Local Peasant
Associations are to be continued with
compulsory membership, the Kreis and
Local Associations being directly re-
sponsible to the Local Food and Agri-
culture Offices. The Association will be
utilized as in the past in connection with
the imposition of quotas, collection of
necessary records and statistics. It is con-
templated reorganizing the associations
on a democratic basis.

In addition to these, the maintenance
or reestablishment of the following
agencies and organizations are auth-
orized:

a. Conservation and Wildlife Auth-

orities.

14

b. Credit Examining and Regulatory
Agencies.

c. Administration of State Domains. —

d. Land Reclamation and Soil Conser-
vation Projects.

e. Fisheries Stations
cheries.

f. Land Settlement Agencies.

g. Debt Reconversion and Liquidation
Agencies.

h. Plant Protection Office.
i. Other agencies of like nature.

and Fish Hat-

Scientific investigation and research
by various agencies and laboratories in
connection with food, nutrition, agri-
culture, forestry and fisheries will be
permitted and should’ be encouraged.
The results of such research however
will be subject to frequent Military Gov-
ernment inspections.

--- Page 18 ---
GENERAL

Mil Gov Conference Closes

UNDOUBTEDLY accomplishing _ its
main objective of promoting a better
understanding of Military Government
policy in the US Zone, a smoothly-
handled, impressive Military Government
Conference completed its scheduled
three-day meeting on August 29 in the
Casino adjoining the Headquarters of
the United States Forces in the European
Theater, Frankfurt.

The complete program and minutes
of the conference, one of the most im-
portant gatherings of high-ranking U.
S. military and civil officials interested.
in Military Government so far con-
ducted, is presently being edited and
will be published shortly in a special
edition of the Military Government In-
formation Bulletin.

Before approximately 200 military
government officers and military and
civilian functional specialists, branch
chiefs of many of the G-5, USFET and
US Group Control. Council divisions, in
addition to several other authorities on
phases of military government, dis-
cussed pertinent subjects of policy and
current problems being faced in. the
field. Greatest emphasis was placed
upon the procedure of denazification
and the eradication of German ,mili-
tarism, although such major problems
as the development of democratic me-
thods and attitudes, the restoration of

a minimum German economy, repara- -

tions and the elimination of war Po-
tential and current developments in
Military Government were each inten-
sively examined.

The. conference atmosphere was
brightened by the presence of several
of the Army’s outstanding military
officials. Included in the group which
took part in the proceedings or were
present at several of the conference
sessions were at least 15 general offi-
cers, led by General Dwight D. Eisen-
hower, US Military Governor, who
formally opened the-initial session. Also
present were General George S. Patton,
Commanding General of the Eastern .
Military District, Maj. Gen. F. W. Mil-
burn, acting Commanding General of
the Western Military District, and’ mem-
bers of their respective G-5 staffs.

FIRST OF ITS KIND

The Conference, which was the first
of its kind to be held, was called
together by Brig. Gen. C. L. Adcock,
Assistent Chief of Staff, G-5, USFET,
and featured talks by Lt. Gen. Lucius
D. Clay, Deputy Military Governor,
USGCC; Brig. Gen. R. A. McClure,
Chief of the Information Control Divi-
sion; Brig. Gen. L. S. Smith, Chief of

’ Civil Service and ‘Local Government,

15

USGCC; Brig. Gen. Frank J. McSherry,
Chief of the Manpower Branch, USGCC;
and Brig. Gen. S. R. Mickelsen, Chief of
the Combined Displaced Persons Exe-
cutive, USFET. Although short, pointed
lectures comprised most of the pro-
gram, a period was set aside in each
session for questions and general dis-
cussions, at which time members of the
audience were able to quiz the various

--- Page 19 ---
speakers on particular points: or inject
their own ideas, based on practical field
experience, into the discussion.

Woven into the conference program,
were the three major subjects of present
Military Government interest: US Po-
litical Objectives, US Economic Ob-
jectives, and Current Problems in Mili-
tary Government. One general session
of the conference was omitted so that
separate meetings could be conducted
by each group of functional specialists

to consider current problems in their |

respective fields. Time was also ‘allotted
for the regular monthly meeting of the
district commanders and their staffs
with General Clay and General Adcock.

_ In addition to the full representation
of the staffs of USFET, US Group Con-
trol Council, and the two Military
Distriets, ranking Military Government
officers from the Berlin District, the
Bremen Enclave and the Military Gov-
ernment regional detachments
present. Other high-ranking officers

were .

who attended the conference included
Maj. Gen. F. H. Lanahan, Chief Signal
Officer, USFET; Maj. Gen. Stayer, Chief
Public Health Branch, USGCC; Brig.
Gen. E. W. Timberlake, Commanding
General of the 49th AAA Brigade; Brig.
Gen. William H. Draper, Chief of the
Economics Branch, USGCC, and Brig.
Gen. B. L. Milburn, Chief of Staff for
USGCC. .

It is expected that decisions reached
at the conference, as well as clarifica-
tions of operational procedure, will be
brought to the attention of each de-
tachment in the US zone by the regional
Military Government .commanders in
the near future.

Carefully planned, the conference
attempted to eliminate all ,;but the
necessary formalities in order to
facilitate discussion and an exchange of
ideas. In charge of arrangements were
Col. Hayden N. Smith, Deputy AC of S,
G-5 and Lt. Col. H. L. Weller of the

Plans Branch, USFET.

ECAD Ends 19 Months Service

ITS PRIMARY work and _ objectives
completed, the European Civil Affairs
Division, parent organization of Mili- -
tary Government detachments in Ger-
many, was officially disbanded on
September 1 in Bad Homburg, Germany,
after approximately 19 months of
service.

The Division’s work of administering
and supplying the more than 300 detach-
ments has now been delegated to the
2nd and 3rd Military Government Regi-
ments, which have been assigned, re-

16

spectively, to the Western and Eastern
Military District Headquarters. Hence-
forth, it was announced, quotas for per-
sonnel to be returned to the United
States, as well as the selection of offi-
cers and enlisted’ men for decorations
and promotions will be under the direct
supervision of the respective Military
Government Regiments.,

It was at the advice of Maj. Gen. J. H.
Hilldring, Director of the Civil Affairs
Division, Washington, that the Europ-
ean Civil Affairs Division was first

--- Page 20 ---
organized, and formal activation of the
Division took place on 7 February 1944
at Shrivenham, England, Brig. Gen. C.
P. Stearns, then a colonel, was made com-
manding officer. The final form of ECAD,
however, was the result of a combina-
tion of plans proposed by the War De-
- partment, ETOUSA and the Civil Affairs
Center in England.

FOUR ASSIGNMENTS

During the course of its year and a
half of existance the Division received
four important, assignments from the
Supreme Commander. Its initial assign-
ment was to organize and train 6,000
officers and enlisted men, whom the
War Department had sent to England
early in 1944, into working regiments,
companies and detachments, which
would be able to participate in the Nor-
mandy invasion with a program of
civilian control. The second major task
was the reorganization of two regi-
ments for the regime of direct military
government in Germany as opposed to
the advisory civil affairs program in
liberated countries. ECAD also became
responsible for the supply of detach-
ments to army group and armies and
the formulation of plans for their
deployment. Its fourth assignment was
the withdrawal of military government
and civil affairs detachments from areas
that were to come under British, French
and Russian control and their redeploy-
ment in the US Zone of Occupation.

Just before its disbandment, ECAD
had 346 detachments under its ad-
ministrative jurisdiction. It had a
strength total of over 7,600 officers
and enlisted men as of 23 June 1945,
and it was of special note that with its
approximately 2,400 officers, ECAD had
a Jarger proportion of commissioned

17

grades than any. other organization in
the U. S. Army. The officer personnel
consisted of experts in the fields of
municipal administration, industry, and
the arts, with specialists ranging from
sewer maintenance and power pro-
duction to news dissemination and the
protection of monuments.

In addition to the four major
problenis assigned to ECAD by the
Supreme Commander, the Division was
also credited with supplying personnel
for G-5 staffs of army groups, armies,
corps, and divisions and for military
missions to liberated countries. It or-
ganized special detachments to meet the
need for special groups able to handle
financial, utilities and similar problems
on a country-wide basis. The adminis-
tration of American civil affairs officers
attached to British corps in the days of
the Normandy invasion and the opera-
tion of a processing center and a school
of Allied liaison officers in the re-
patriation of displaced persons were a
few of ECAD/s other accomplishments.

The Division Headquarter, itself, was
located at Shrivanham and later at Man-
chester, England; at Rochefort-en-
Yvelines and Troyes, France, and Bad
Homburg, Germany, but the detach-
ments trained and outfitted by ECAD
have been deployed in France, Belgium,
Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Germany,
Austria, Norway and Denmark.

CREDIT FOR SUCCESS

Much of the credit for ECAD/s nu-
merous successes must go to Gen.
Frank E. McSherry, Deputy AC of S,
G-5, SHAEF, and Col. Henry Mec E.
Pendleton, who took over the Division
as commanding officer in May, 1944.
And. among officers on the Division
staff who were instrumental in ECAD

--- Page 21 ---
achievements were Lt. Col. Daniel I.
Glossbrenner, Executive Officer; Lt.
Col. Nathaniel M. Caffee, G-1; Lt. Col.
Norton V. Coyle, G-3; Lt. Col. Howard
Phillips, G-4 and Col. H. C. Dillard, head
of the ECAD training program.

Army Uniforms Prohibited For
Non-Military Personnel

THE WEARING of US Army clothing,
except by personnel of the Army and
others authorized by current War De-
partment instructions, will soon be pro-
hibited in the European Theater, it was
announced recently by Headquarters,
USFET.

The forthcoming policy will directly
affect UNRRA and, at the present time,
negotiations are under way between
UNRRA and the British War Office to

obtain British battledress for both male ,

and female UNRRA’ personnel. | In
addition, it was announced, considera-
tion is being given by USFET to dyeing
certain items of outer US Military
clothing for use by UNRRA and other
non-military personnel.

Besides UNRRA, the new policy is
expected to affect displaced persons,
civilian workers and prisoners: of war.

Local Printing. of Textbooks
Forbidden

BECAUSE existing “paper stocks and
other printing supplies in Germany are
critically low, no ‘authorization can be
given for local printing of textbooks
for German school use, it was announ-
ced by the Internal Affairs Branch of
G-5, USFET.

However, emergency stocks of Ger-
man textbooks are being printed under

Military Government direction in the
Western Military District and should be

available for distribution throughout
the complete US Zone by early October.
Details, it was stated, will be announced
within two weeks.

It was emphasized that the only print-
ing of school books authorized without
written order of USFET is that which
at present is being carried on in Munich
for use in the entire US Zone.

Meanwhile, completely re-written mo-
dern textbooks submitted to USFET for
approval will be incorporated into a
comprehensive textbook program for
the 1946-47 school year. The printing
of such books, however, will not be
initiated until further notice.

Mass Repatriation of Poles

Expected Soon

THE MOVEMENT of approximately
30,000 Polish nationals from various
sections of the US Zone and from
liberated countries to Poland is expect-
ed to take place in the very near future.

Atcording to plans being made at the
Headquarters of the Theater Service
Forces, European Theater, the mass
movement, one of the largest in. the
displaced persons repatriation program,
will be made with the use of 17 trains

* daily running from the various sections

18

of the US Zone to delivery points
designated by the Polish Government
near the Oder River. At the present
time, detailed arrangements are under
negotiation with the Russian and Polish
governments.

Sugar for German Children Only

THE PRESENT shortage of sugar in
the US Zpne has necessitated that Ger-

--- Page 22 ---
man regional food offices issue sugar
only to provide rations for children
under six years old and for the pro-
cessing of fruits and vegetables, the
Economics Branch, G-5, USFET, stated
recently. ,

Second Mil Gov Regiment

Sponsors Weekly

AN AMBITIOUS, four-page weekly
newspaper, "the Governor,” published
*by and for the men of the Second Mili-
tary: Government Regiment” made its
first appearance last week. The first
issue has four-column pages, complete
with news, articles, editorials, feature
columns, pictures, cartoons and detach-
ment gossip. The paper is a worthwhile
effort whose primary purpose is tc
print-news which interests’ men in the
detachments and company headquarters.

The newspaper is the inspiration of
Captain N. L. Vinson, Regimental S-2/3
officer, and T/3 Laszlo Matulay. It is
presently under the direction of T/5
Nathan Safir, editor.

Bells For Bidingen
THE ITALIAN town of fictional fame
from John Hersey’s book ”A Bell For
Adano” has its actual counterpart in
Biidingen, capital city of Kreis Biidingen
in the State of Hessen.

19

The Evangelical. church. of this town
of 5,000 people boasted three large
bells, installed in the early 1920s, which
tolled out the hour regularly, and which
came to be known as a landmark by
local residents. °

In 1944, the Nazis removed the three
1,000 pound bells from the church belfry
and took them to Hamburg to be melted
down as metal for shell casings. and
cartridges. Regretfully the citizens of
Biidingen viewed the departure of the
bells, regarding the incident as another
loss of privilege and tradition --
further hardships to be borne under the
tyranny of Nazi dictatorship.

A few days ago, returning refugees
from Hamburg reported to Biidingen
city officials that the city’s three bells
had been seen, by them’ in Hamburg
since the end of the war — intact. The
swift advance of the Allies and the early
end of hostilities had not afforded time
nor opportunity for the bells to be
melted down.

Lt Col W. R. Swarm, commanding the
Military Government of Kreis Biidingen,
plans to grant petmission to local
officials to return the bells from Ham-
burg, when transportation facilities
permit. To local residents the renewed
pealing of the church bells may signify
a ray of hope for a free and more
democratic future.

--- Page 23 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

Church and Politics

WHAT the position of the church will
be in the future development of German
politics is a matter which is causing con-
siderable speculation and discussion in
both lay and clerical circles. In the
Catholic Church, itself, opinion is
divided over the re-establishment of an
official church party continuing the
tradition and practice of the old Center

: Party.

A prominent German cleric with very
well-defined political views is strongly
in favor of forming a Catholic Party
which would be instrumental in prepar-
ing the moral regeneration of Germany
and would also serve as a means of de-
fence against any future attacks which
might be directed against the Church.
It is not enough, he states, for Bishops
to write pastoral leters; Catholics must
make their influence felt on a political
plane. At the same time, however, he
condemns the direct participation of the
clergy in political life and disapproves
of their being elected to public office.

On the other hand there is the opinion
of a political figure springing from a
predominantly Catholic region who is
opposed to the establishment of a Ca-
tholic Center Party as such. He believes
that some ”Middle” party will come into
existence with a Christian and demo-
cratic orientation; however, it should
not be based on any particular sect, but
rather be non-denominational. He con-
tends that with the, impoverishment of
Germany and with the weakening of
Prussia’s position in the German State,

20

there is no longer any need for a poli-
tical party whose fundamental purpose
was to protect the Catholic Church
against the religious persecution of
Protestant Prussia. Furthermore, he
fears that if a one-church party were-to
reach any degree of power or influence
it would incur the hostility of the
masses as a result of the severe mea-
sures it would have to adopt to establish
order in the economic chaos of post-war
Germany.

Some Leftist Political Views

IN A RECENT interview with two re-
presentative members of a lefts party,
the opinion was expressed that leader-
ship of the German people in the future
must come from those who remained in
the country during the years of the
Hitler regime rather than from the po-
litical exiles who sought refuge in |
foreign lands. It was stated that the
later, as a consequence of their exile,
would have lost touch with the masses
and the problems which confront them.
Furthermore, only those who have
proven their political reliability through
active, on-the-spot, opposition to the
Nazis could be entrusted with the task
of re-educating politically the German
people. In fact, exiles upon returning
would themselves need considerable re-
education before becoming qualified to
take up political activity on any level,
let alone functioning as leaders.

It is interesting to note that no con-
sideration is given to the possibility that

--- Page 24 ---
‘the exiles would be in a position to con-
tribute greatly to the political orienta-
tion of the masses by reason of their

foreign experience and by reason of .

the fact they were in constant daily
touch with sources of information and
movements of which Germans in Ger-
many, whatever their degree of political
purity, were not even dimly aware.

However averse these political leaders
may be to accepting political counsel
from exiles belonging to their own
party, the same cannot be said of their
attitude toward erstwhile rival political
parties. Here an attitude of friendly co-
operation exists between the ‘major
leftist parties, particularly on the upper
levels. The still existing differences are
observed to. cause friction for the most
part only on the level of the small,
local cells.

That members of leftist parties have
become firm believers in collectivization
was evidenced by the attitude which was

_ expressed in relation to the breaking-up
of the large East Prussian farms. Here
it was felt ‘that it would have been ‘ad-
visable to retain the structure and or-
ganization of these units down into
small primitively operated peasant hold-
ings. Such a transferral, in addition to
the fact that it would have been simpler
to effect administratively, could have
benefitted greatly from the use of ma-
chinery which was then available but
which has since been removed.

It was realized, however, that the
territory lost east of the Oder was no
longer a problem of German Socialism
and it is not intended to make the loss
of these lands an issue in future party
developments, however much the loss
may be regretted. But. it was not believ-
ed that either the Poles or Russians

21

‘ritory with

would show themselves capable of ad-
ministering their newly acquired ter-
the efficiency of their
former Prussian. owners. ’

On Second Thought

SINCE V-E day many Germans had
been boosting Uncle Sam for the role

_ of Santa Claus, and hoping that the

plentitude of Christmas trees, chimneys
and little children on the local landscape
would put it over. Their delusion, al-
ready bruised by Operation Tally-Ho,”
has apparently been effectively dispelled
by the Potsdam finale. General Eisen-
hower’s subsequent proclamation was
admirably suited to revive them with a
dash of smelling-salts and then get them .
to assimilate a straightforward and
sober account of, what the score was in
the US Zone. The reaction to the procla-
mation,. however, seems not to have
been very marked, since the public as a
whole remained too punch drunk from
the impact of the Potsdam declaration.
From a detachment in the southwestern
section of US Zone comes the following
well-balanced resume of what the reac-
tion of the Germans in that general
area was:

While the German public seemed to
expect the total uprooting of Nazism

_and the imposition of heavy reparations,

they did not appear to have reckoned
seriously with Germany’s territorial dis-
memberment in the East, nor with the
destruction. of her heavy industries.
Few had the courage to visualize the
full consequences of the war, although
they did feel that they were terrible and
would grow even more so. They are,
however, clear on one point: namely,
that Germany has been reduced in size

--- Page 25 ---
and in wealth, and that for many years
to come she will no longer be able to
form an independent policy but will be
the subject of foreign powers.

More optimism evolved after the first
shock was overcome. The people sought
encouragement in the promises of the
maintenance of Germany’s political and
economic unity, and the ultimate recon-

22

struction of German life on a democratic
and peaceful basis. They especially took
notice of the form of reparations to be
imposed upon Germany, not in the
terms of astronomical figures, but in .
the form of natural resources and
industrial equipment, and hoped that

these reparations would be exacted with ~

*mercy” to permit the Germans to
maintain a decent standard of living.

--- Page 26 ---
LESSONS FROM OPERATIONS

YOUTH PROGRAM

TO COMBAT the concern expressed
by responsible civilians of Heppenheim
over the lack of political re-education
for the youth, Detachment I-138 has
initiated a broad program of youth
work, to supplement the educational
plans now being completed. Leading
anti-Nazis, representing all occupation-
al, religious and political groups in the
area, have been enlisted for this task
and are working under the close super-

. vision of the Military Government de-
tachment.

According to the detachment, the
Germans, themselves, are fearful of a
wave of juvenile delinquency and or-
ganized clandestine activity that may
follow as soon as the shock of defeat
and the fear of the occupation troops
have been lessened. Already, there are
stories of plots to shave the heads of
girls who associate with American
soldiers and rumors of secret meetings
of small groups. ,

Until the recent youth program by
Detachment 1-138, nothing had been
done to remove the poison of Nazi

education from the regimented thinking

of the young people, to give them les-
sons in the meaning of democracy or to
keep them occupied. Under Hitler, it
was emphasized, the highly organized
activity that the youth found in the Hit-
ler Jugend, sports clubs and junior mili-
tary organizations became a mode of

life. Now, finding themselves completely -

footloose, young people may soon be-
come a menace to the public safety and
a potential threat to Military Govern-
ment.

23

Toward solving this problem, Detach-
ment I-138, among others, has set up
a program for youth which will include
the building of a stadium, organized
agricultural work and youth assistance
for adult workers. Sports clubs and a
sports program, under the leadership of
anti-Nazis, as well as a cultural program
to include musical gatherings emphasi-
zing the music banned under Hitler and
folk songs of other lands in addition to
those of Germany are also being or-
ganized under the supervision of the .
Detachment. It is planned to have study |
groups to read and discuss literature
banned by Hitler, classes in “domestic
science, technical subjects and language,
with particular emphasis on English,
and a lending library of books forbid-
den by the Nazis. -

In locating &dult German help for the
youth program, the Detachment has
selected a committee of non-Nazis with
special aptitudes and leadership abilities
and who stem from all political and re-
ligious groups. Additional adult help in
the program will be sought among anti-
Nazis in church circles and in the ranks
of returned prisoners of war and ex-
concentration camps inmates. The de-
tachment-reports that everyone involved
has expressed enthusiasm for the pro-
gram.

, DETACHMENT GAZETTE

DETACHMENT G-32 in Biidingén has
started the publication of a Military
Government Gazette, which contains
ordinances and regulation for the civil-
ians of Landkreis Biidingen. Printed in
German and circulated throughout the

--- Page 27 ---
Kreis, the Gazette also contains notices
concerning the operation of civilian and
military government in adjoining areas.
Captain W. N. McCormick is editor of
the periodical.

AID MEDICINE SUPPLY

A  THREE-MONTH _herb-gathering
campaign, conducted by church groups
and school teachers, has considerably
augmented Munich’s medicine supply
and ‘resulted in restocking druggists’
shelves which had been bare of many
manufactured items. for years.
vised. by Detachment E-201, the herbs
collected by children replace ready
made cough remedies and sedatives.
Camomile and peppermint also are avail-
able.  *

FUEL PROBLEM

IN COBURG, Detachment G-225 or-
dered the Oberbiirgermeister of the
Stadt to authorize a survey by qualified
experts to determine which trees in the
city can be cut down without destroy-
ing the beauty of the city, to provide
wood for fuel during the coming win-
ter. Emphasizing that coal for domestic
and general spa¢e heating use will de-
finitely not be available; and that se-
curing wood for fuel is a matter of vital
importance, the detachment commander
told the Oberbirgermeister that no
better way of impressing this fact upon
the consciousness of the civilians could
be found than to make the inhabitants
personally witness the process ef se-
curing the wood. In addition to pro-
viding fuel, the survey in Coburg was
expected also to disclose which trees
throughout the city are either decayed
or defective in other respects and
should be destroyed.

Super- -

24

The order to the Oberbiirgermeister
said: “It may be well at this point to
remind you, and the people of Coburg,
that no choice relative to the desirabi-
lity of preserving the harmony and use-
fulness of the plantings throughout its
city streets was given the people of

France during the German occupation, *

but that they, from sheer necessity, had
to destroy the century-old shade trees
lining the streets of almost every city
or village in order that some meager
measure of comfort might be secured.”

CAUSE OF FOOD SHORTAGE -

IN BERLIN, the civilian supply section
of the Military Government detachment
reported that an analysis of reports
indicated that much of the food shor-
tage in the American sector of Berlin
was due to unequal distribution and
loss from improper storage.

MOBILE PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEMS

IN MUNICH, automobiles with public
address apparatus which tour the city
are being used by Detachment G-201 at
33 different street junctions to keep the
population infdrmed of official an-
nouncements, a news dispatch stated re-
cently. The cars operate from Monday

, through Friday, making scheduled stops

at the most important intersections. Per-
sonnel of the cars are also instructed to.
answer questions. . :

In addition, establishment of 22 street
corner advertising bulletin boards has
also proved successful. The boards, said
the report, not only give persons the
opportunity to. advertise their surplus
articles to be used in exchange for: more
wanted items, but also serve as an in-
formation service.

--- Page 28 ---
PRESS COMMENTS

Successful Occupation

PRESS comment during the week con-
-tinued to emphasize the magnitude of
the post-surrender task and responsi-
bilities of the Allies in Germany and
Japan, while observers on the spot
stressed the importance of the confer-
ence of occupation officers at Frank-
furt in seeking a solution for some of
the outstanding problems that have
arisen in the three months of Military
Government control in the US Zone.

Though a nasty job, and a long and
hard job, occupation is necessary as the
payoff, declared the Washington Daily
News. ’’Successful occupation can help
complete the victory which today is
only tentative,” the Daily News said.
Failure to achieve our purpose in the
occupation would mean we had not won
the war, but merely a truce.”

Noting that the United States had
emerged from the war "with unprece-
dented influence and leadership”, the
Springfield Republican emphasized the
*moral responsibilities now resting
upon this country in consequence of its
assumption of ‘the right to primacy in
world affairs.” The Chicago Sun, in an
editorial, pointed out that both Ger-
many and Japan, during the occupation,
would provide a testing ground for
allied unity, while from the London
Spectator came a-warning that it will
be as long and arduous a task to undo
the consequences of Japanese, as well as
German aggression.

On the eve of the conference of occu-
pation officers in Frankfurt, Drew
.

\

25

Key to Final Victory

Middleton, New York Times correspon-
dent, said that the meeting would seek
to clarify "the American economic, poli-
tical and military policy in Germany”
and that it will also tackle some of the
outstanding problems that have arisen
in Military Government in the three
months of controf in this Zone. ”The
conference is long overdue” Middleton
asserted and then in a critical vein wrote,
The main points of the American
policy, although perfectly well known
to the senior officers at Headquarters,
are often misunderstood in the field and
directives are misinterpreted. Moreover,
the G-5 Branch at US Headquarters is
viewed solely as a policy-making group
and field commands have on many oc-
casions resisted attempts by officers in
G-5 to visit Military Government detach- |
ments in the field to see how their po-
licy was being implemented. Many of
the prominent American businessmen
who volunteered to serve as export con-
sultants to occupation armies are frank-
ly discouraged with what they have seen
of Military Government in operation in
Germany, and apprehensive over the
growing sympathy for the Germans
throughout the Army and the uncom-
promising attitude of many senior offi-
cers toward the Russians.”

Political and economic decentraliza-
tion, a basic Military Government poli-
cy, received a strong indorsement from
former Undersecretary of State Sumner
Welles, who pointed out in a news-
paper article that undér this policy Ger-
many may once more become a group

--- Page 29 ---
of autonomous and. generally peaceful
states bound together by racial, culturai
and economic ties. .’But until a new
generation of truly democratic Germans
comes into being, Germany should not
be given the chance to revert to that
centralized unity which affords the only
way in which Pan-German plans for
military aggrandizement and world do-
mination can ever be carried out.”

-’The most disturbing and sinister fact
about Germany today is that it is a
nation without a conscience” declared
Darryl Zanuck, guest columnist for
Drew Pearson. Shocking as it may
seem, we failed to find in Germany one
person with the slightest sense of shame
or’ war guilt. They have no realization
of the scope or enormity of their crime
against mankind. The fundamentals of
justice, fair play, honor and mercy can
be slowly reestablished in Germany. Un-
less this is done,.I am. afraid for the
future. We have won a military victory.
It remains to be seen whether we can
gain a moral ascendancy.”

Occupation Policies

THE: TREND of American comment
continues to favor a "hard” rather than
a “soft” occupation of Germany. Illu-
strative: of this trend, Cecil Brown, in
a broadcast over MBS, declared that
there was "something fantastic about all
this concern about the welfare of Ger-
many. To many people, it would be far
more pertinent to be less concerned
about the stomachs of the Germans
and far more interested in the stomachs
of the French, Greeks, Dutch, Belgians,
Poles and Czechs. The welfare of Ger-
‘many is important in that we have
some 500,000 troops there who have to
be fed and protected from disorder and

26

* Zone.

epidemics. But it is bizarre to offer
more hope to our enemies than we
offer to our friends. Simple justice

would demand that the Germans get
the minimum of everything and that
the maximum possible should go to. the
people who suffered at the hands of the
Germans”.

In what would appear by implication
to be a plea for a softer treatment of
Germans”, the Chicago Tribune sharply
assails the alleged excesses” committed
by US military personnel in the recent
round up of civilians in the American
”These raids were outrageous”
charged the Tribune editorial. ”Our
Army apparently has been instructed to
treat the civilians in a defeated nation
not in accord with decent American
practice, but according to European -
rules. — All these excesses committed
by our army would argue a studied
attempt to prove to the German people
that there is really no fundamental
difference between Hitler’s method of
government and ours. We have already
made a good start toward persuading
them that all we have said in condem-
nation of his methods was so much:
hypocrisy”.

Wieviel kostet es?

MEANWHILE, questions are being
asked as to the cost of of occupation.
One begins to wonder, Columnist
Samuel Grafton said, how much it is
going to cost the world to maintain
what we call order in Germany.” A
vast army of occupation; numbering
500,000 men, he says, is to. be main-
tained in our zone of. occupation, and:
where our troops are stationed, ”there
will be food for the Germans, there will
be coal, not much, but enough to get

--- Page 30 ---
by. For we proceed on the double
principle that we keep our troops
stationed in certain areas to maintain
order among the people and that we
must feed and fuel the people to main-
tain order in the areas where our
troops are stationed. — What seems to
be happening is that the mere details
of our German program, the need for
keeping order, for getting supplies etc.,
have been allowed to grow and mush-
room up until they have swallowed the
major objective of our program — the
industrial disarmament of Germany”.
From Alf M. Landon, 1936 Republican
presidential candidate came a_ sug-
gestion that Congress investigate, im-
mediately "the inflated ideas of the
military in Washington regarding the

size of the Army.” It is absurd to
believe that we need an army of

300,000 to 500,000 to occupy Germany”,
Landon said in a newspaper interview.

Future of German Science

ASSERTING that German science has
been one of the world’s great assets,
the Baltimore Sun stressed the fact that
the manner of its control by the Allies
would be of vital importance to the
world at large. Will Germany’s system
of scientific education and apprentice
ship be restored, will Allied control
provide conditions favorable to original
“research?” The Sun asked. "In its hand-
ling of the question of German science,
the Allied Control Commission is dealing
with an asset of incalculable value to
the world, and cannot deal lightly
with it.” .

Press Comments at Random

>THE: ARMY was criticized earlier
for shielding German war prisoners not

27

‘trial of the major European. war

only from exposure to democratic
truths but even from the impact.of ac-
tual events as portrayed by the news.
Its present program of training  pri-
soners of war for administrative work
under the Allied commands in Germany
may counteract much of that criticism”
—editoral in New-York Herald Tribune.

*

“It is vitally important that the world
knows fully of all that transpires. There
will be no censorship on what transpires
in the court room, and no part of the
court proceedings will be secret. The
cri-
minals will be a public trial’ — Asso-
ciate Justice Robert H. Jackson.

* O*®

»The German people. with few ex-
ceptions, knew nothing of the bar-
barous acts committed in concentration
camps against people who were mostly
innocent. The more were they shocked
to their depths when news of these hap-
penings finally reached the pubtic. — It
need not be stressed that for any one
loyal to the Christian faith and to
Christian moral laws it is an obvious
heavy and holy duty to detest and
condemn such crimes from the bottom
of his heart and extend the most heart-
felt sympathy to those whose only
crime it’ was that. they remained true
to Christ and the faith of their fathers”
— Joint Pastoral of Bishops of. Bavaria.

* *

“It is in the interest of both the Allies
and the German people that a healthy
political and social life be gradually
developed in each community and the
foundations laid for a government
which will be effective but free of the
unitary and over centralized trends

--- Page 31 ---
which marked the downfall of the Re-
public and the rise of the totalitarian
state” — Col. James R. Newman in
turning over offices in Regierungs-
bezirk Wiesbaden to civilian officials.

* Ok

There is another danger. It is that
in the desire for efficiency our mili-
tary administrators may keep in po-
sitions of power the Nazi plant men-

28

agers. In Italy I heard certain American
Army officers deplore the fact that
Italian partisans had killed many of the
Fascist plant managers, which made
more difficult the reorganization of
Italian productive capacity. In Germany
there has been no such revolt. The Nazi
industrial hierarchy remains intact”. —
Harley M. Kilgore, U.S.Senator from
West Virginia, in New York Times
Magazine.

--- Page 32 ---
QUERIES

Payment of Salaries

Q. Does MG Law 52 prohibit the pay-
ment of salaries, wages or fees to per-
sons whose property is blocked where
‘such salaries, etc.,, exceed 500 Reichs-
marks per month for the person and his
family?

A. Yes..No payment of any kind in
excess of 300 Reichsmarks per month
may be made to a person whose pro-
perty is blocked. All such payments
should be paid into a blocked account
in a financial institution in accordance
with General License No. 2. Employers
would do well to pay salaries which
exceed 300 Reichsmarks per month into
a blocked account to protect themselves
against violations of MG Law 52.

Reparations Bill

Q. Will any part of the Reparations
bill be paid in cash?

A. No. That was tried last time and
failed. German Marks may be goad at
home, but mean very little abroad.
Beyond the gold captured in Germany,
Reparations will be paid this time only
in goods and ‘services.

Giro Payments
Q. How can a merchant in the U.S.
Zone pay or receive payment of charges
due to or due from a civilian in another
zone? ‘

A. Agreement has been reached with

the British and French authorities for |

the resumption of Giro payments

29

through the Reichsbank in each Land
and each of the three zones. This Giro
transaction will follow pre-existing Ger-
man channels and procedure except that
settlement will be effected between
Reichsbanks in the zones instead of in
Berlin or through other clearings. The
German bankers are being informed of
the resumption of these transactions.

Total Reparations Figure

Q. Has the total Reparations bill been
set ? :

A. No. The. Crimea Conference  dis-
cussed a figure of 20,000,000,000 dollars,
but at Berlin this idea was discarded, in
favor of extracting from the different
zones exactly what Germany could pay
— in industrial goods, in internal and
external wealth, in labor possibly — and
still live. After World War I, we tried
unsuccessfully to extract various given
amounts from Germany for 12 years,
then gave up. ‘

Contracts for Property

Q. Will there be any modification of
the present policy providing for a 30-
day limitation upon contracts entered
for the leasing of property taken into
control?

A. The original limitation of 30 days

_was one of the mistakes incorporated

into the Technical Manual. The Manual
says that a longer contract may be en-
tered into with the approval of higher
authority. The regional and district
PCO’s will ‘authorize longer contracts
to accord with normal commercial

--- Page 33 ---
practice. Any contract entered into by
you, regardless of its term, may be term-
inated at any time by Military Govern-
ment. You may include a clause to that
effect in your contracts, but even if

you do not, it is implied by the nature’

of the authority which you have over
property in your custody.

Movable Properties

Q. What is the disposition of movable
properties like machines and equipment
which belonged to, the. Wehrnracht and
are left standing by Army authorities
without anyone to care for protect
such properties? ‘

A. Anything of a valuable nature
which is worthwhile should be reported

and request made that it.be released by’

the Army either for disposal by mem-
orandum receipt ‘for essential needs
or for taking into property control.

MFA&A— Property Control
Relation

Q. What is the relation
MFA&A and Property Control?

between

30

A. Property Control has the overall.
custody of all property, of which works
of art are merely one kind, but the
technical handling of the objects in
question is urider the advice and direc-
tion of Monuments Specialist Officers.

Shed Responsibility

Q. How does’ Military Government
shed its responsibility for the care and
custody of works of art?

A. By returning the works of art
(a) to their pre-war owner, Government,
i.e., Restitution; and (b) to the reaeti-
vated, denazified German civilian
museum administration.

Goring Collection
Q. What is, going to be done with the

“Goring Collection? ©

A. That part’ which is adjudged
illegally will be returned to the pre-war
owner Governments; that which is ad-
judged to be the legal possession of
Goring will go to the Control Council.
for disposition as having belonged to
a war criminal.

--- Page 34 ---
PERSONAL DATA

Decorations
LEGION OF MERIT
Lt. Col. L. P. Senecal, Det E-1

BRONZE STAR
Capt. Isidore Newman, Det E-201

Promotions -
TO CAPTAIN
Lt. Earl E. Chisamore, Det E1F3

Returned to the States

Col.-Don M. Hoffman, ECA R & T Bn

Lt. Col. Norton V. Coyle, Hq, ECAD

Lt. Col. Oswald B. Mc Ewan, G-5, Third
Army - .

Maj. Andrew Cella, Hq, ECAD

Maj. Arthur Cory, Hq, ECAD

Maj. Charles Al Gramling, Hq, ECAD

Maj. Lionel C. Oerera, G-5, Third Army

Capt. Albert H. Ellis, Hq, ECAD

Capt. Charles J. Hepburn, Jr. ECA R
& T Bn

Capt. B. C. Hoffman, G-5, USFET

Capt. Robert R. Poston, Hq, ECAD

Ist. Lt. Miller H. Pavlides, Hq, ECAD

CWO Dean C. Me Bride, Sv Co, ECAD

MiSgt Clifford W. Hege, Sv Co, ECAD

31

M/Sgt Thomas W. Hennessey, ECA R
& T Bn
Ist Sgt Edd H. Alford, Hq, ECAD
TiSgt Melvin H. Intner, ECA Med Gp
TiSgt Paul E. Verner, G-5, USFET
S/Sgt Gaetano Carlo, Sv Co, ECAD
S/Sgt Charles T. Grassé, Hq, ECAD
S/Sgt Samuel’ D. Montgomery,
USFET

T/3 Ernest G. Steinwegy G-5, USFET
~T/3 Merle T. Wentz, ECA Med Gp

Sgt Charles B. Johnston, Hq, ECAD
Sgt Jasper E. Knight, Sv Co, ECAD
Ti4 Dora Meredith, G-5, USFET

T/4 Otto R. Reischer, Hq, ECAD

T/4 Edna Sanders, G-5, USFET

Ti4 Lawrence J. Symoniak, Sv Co, ECAD
Cpl Jack L. Horton, ECA R & T Bn

Cpl Mark Karies, G-5, USFET

T/5 Edward Hearty, G-5, USFET

T/5 Faye M. Goldware, G-5,USFET
T/5 Richard W. Lang, Sv Co, ECAD
T/5 Leon A. Minnick, Hq, ECAD

T/5 Philip Seitz, ECA Med Gp

T/5 William J. Toole, Hq, ECAD

“Pfc Harry A. Clifford, ECA R & T Bn
Pfc Morton E. Feinberg, ECA R&T Bn
Pfc Junior B. Freeman, ECA R & T Bn
Pfc Andrew Kovac, Jr., G-5, USFET
Pfc Knight V. LaCour, G-5, USFET
Pfc Anthony Peraine, Sv Co, ECAD

G-5,

--- Page 35 ---
