--- Page 2 ---
No. 8 — 15 SEPTEMBER 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF
G-5 DIVISION
USPEBT

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
TNL
Ty

bel N

RUSSIAN ZONE

CZECHO- =
SLOVAKIA=

MBERG

wa

—FRENCH

BAI
IRTH

— MAIN ROUTES IST @ 2ND CL
“DISTRICT ROAD IST CLASS

ROSENHEIM

AUSTRIA

——— SOURCE: G-5, USFET . STATISTICS SECTION:
SEC GEN STAFF USFET-

--- Page 4 ---
No. 8 — 15 SEPTEMBER 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

_ WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE
ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF
"G-5 DIVISION
USFET

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
CONTENTS

PAGE
Contributions to the Bulletin . an Cone 4
Opening Remarks by General of the Army E Eisenhower . 5
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY . 6
Military Government Directives and Instructions Issued
this Week . 6
- Removal of Nazis and Militarists . 7
US Organization for Military Government in Germany 10
Reorganization of German Private Welfare Agencies 12
The. Battle for Health . 13
GENERAL . 15
British Appointments . 15
Coal Shipments Up 15
Back to Forty Hours . toe ee 15
Military Uniforms Prohibited . . . . .~. 16
Marburg Medical School to Open . 16
Beer For Berlin . 16
GERMAN REACTIONS 17
_ Danger of Nazi Solidarity in Small Towns . . 17
Qualified Approval of Denazification: Three Opinions 18
LESSONS FROM OPERATIONS 20
PRESS COMMENTS Loe 22
Denazification Backed by US Press 22
Handling of DPs 23
War Criminals .. . 23
Report from Japan. 24
Random Comments 24
QUERIES. . 26
PERSONAL DATA 27

--- Page 7 ---
CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE BULLETIN

The Weekly Information Bulletin has but a single purpose: to
assist Military Government personnel in their daily work and to fa-
cilitate the exchange of ideas and experience among them. Most of
the material published so far has been prepared by officers from this

Headquarters.

. Although articles on general policy have been written by staff
personnel, very often field problems demand a specific local inter-
pretation. The Highlights of Policy section of the Bulletin is open to
the detachments for articles concerning the application of current
policies to local problems, or any other subject within the scope of
this Bulletin. Original articles will be credited to the individual

author if desired.

Views and comments on subjects of interest to Military Govern-
ment will be welcomed, for it is desired that the Weekly Information
Bulletin reflect the knowledge and views of all who are engaged in
this task.

--- Page 8 ---
Opening Remarks by General of the Army

Eisenhower
Military Government Conference,. Headquarters, USFET, 27 August 1945

THE main thing I want to say to the
Officers attending this Conference on
Military Government Policies is that
everybody engaged in Military Govern-
ment must understand exactly what
we are doing in Germany. The fighting
is over. That was the reason until May
8th for the army being here. Now the
American Army is here for no other
reason than to support Military Govern-
ment in Germany. We must always. re-
member that -and always keep our
objective in front of us. I want no
question about that in anybody’s mind.
That is the basic reason for the army
being here and that is what we expect
of it.

Primarily, of course, the army’s role
is that of furnishing that power which
makes the edict of our Military Gov-
ernment effective. But beyond that
there will be many ways in which Mili-
tary District Commanders and other

Commanders can assist Military Govern-

ment, just as we did during the fighting.
I want the maximum of coordination
to exist.

The Army Commanders have shown
‘their interest in the complete denazi-
fication and demilitarization of all Ger-
man agencies in the American Zone.
Certain questions have arisen concern-
ing this and some are very serious. With
respect to complete denazification and
complete demilitarization,. I know
questions will be raised at this con-
ference. We must not turn from the
main objective. We must get everybody
tainted with Nazism out of every
organization. If for no other reason, we
must remember we have to recognize
the public demand in the United States

and in the rest of the democratic world
for complete denazification. In doing
our job we must accept the difficulties
that inevitably result from our policy of
denazification.

With respect to the. Army Com-
manders’ job in Military Government,
I want Military Government Detach-
ments visited by Army Commanders
just as they visited their divisions and
regiments during the fighting. Each of
the men in those Detachments is doing
an important job. They must be visited
frequently, particularly to give the Army
Commanders a chance to see that his
responsibilities are being correctly
viewed and carried out. The Army Com-
manders must keep in the closest
possible contact with their Detachments.
This is the only way they can know
exactly what is going on.

In dealing with the Birgermeister in
the local communities of the American
Zone we have had instances of con-
fusion. The Army Commander should
designate one man as head of a Military
Governnient Detachment and no other
person should give the Biirgermeister
instructions. If the Biirgermeister be-
lieves for one second that three or four
people can give conflicting orders, we
are going to have lack of respect
toward us and lack of responsibility on
the German side. If the detachment com-
mander gives erroneous ordersallthe time
thereisonly one answer: the one familiar
under combat conditions. Division Com-
manders should not run in and give
orders: let’s not have any confusion on
that point.

We are here to make Military Gov-
ernment work. .

--- Page 9 ---
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

MILITARY GOVERNMENT DIRECTIVES AND
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED THIS WEEK

Each week, there will appear on this page a complete list
of directives and instructions issued to Military Government in
the field. This list is published for the information of all field

personnel.

Section XII to Administration of Military Govern-

ment in the US Zone in Germany, "Price

Control, Trade and Rationing (except Food)" 5 September (file
014.1 GEC-AGO)

Black Market: Articles Supplied by US Army 7 September (file
AG383-GEC-AGO)

Amendment to Section XXIV of Administra- .

tion of Military Government in US Zone in

Germany-Law Number 54, "Use of Wehr-

macht Properly”. . . . . . . . . . . 7 September (file
014.1 GEC-AGO)

Administrative Memorandum No. 1. "Mission, :

Organization and Functions of Industry Branch,

Gs" ee ee ee 24 Aug 45,

--- Page 10 ---
Removal of Nazis and Militarists

BY MAJOR KEITH WILSON
Public Safety Division, U.S: Group C. C.

AT the recent 'three-power conference
in Potsdam a uniform policy for appli-
cation throughout Germany was en-
unciated with reference to the removal
of Nazis from governmental and
economic life in Germany. It is quoted
below: *

” All members of the Nazi Party who
have been more than nominal par-
ticipants in its activities and all other
persons hostile to Allied purposes
shall be removed from public and
semi-public. office and from positions
of responsibility in important private
undertakings. Such persons shall be
replaced by, persons who, by their
political and moral qualities, are
deemed capable of assisting in devel-
oping genuine democratic institutions
in Germany.”

Notwithstanding this agreement be-
tween the occupying powers on the
broad policy, it is at once apparent that
there is much room for disagreement,
not alone between nations, but between
individuals, on the question of the
application and implementation of’ the
broad policy enunciated at Potsdam.
A few of the more general questions
are: :

What constitutes being ”more than a
nominal participant in the activities of
the Nazi Party?”

How can one best recognize a ‘person
who is *’hostile to Allied purposes?”

What is ’public office” and still more
difficult, what is ”semi-public office?”

How does one define an "important
private undertaking?”

And having defined that, what is a
position of responsibility” in it?

One of the most troublesome and
controversial definitions is that which
attempts to describe persons who are
to be considered more than nominal
Nazis. JCS 1067 states:

*Persons are. to be treated as more
than nominal participants in party
activities and as active supporters of
Nazism and militarism when they have
(a) held office or otherwise been active
at any level from local to national in
the party and its subordinate organi-
zations, or in organizations which
further militaristic doctrines;  (b)
authorized or participated affirmatively
in any Nazi crimes, racial persecutions
or discriminations; (c) been avowed
believers in Nazism or racial and mili-
taristic creeds; or (d) voluntarily given
substantial or material support or po-
litical assistance of any kind to the Nazi

‘party or Nazi officials and leaders.”

FEW PEOPLE DISAGREE

Few people would seriously disagree
with thetq@efinition, which only proves
that it isn’t specific enough. But it
nevertheless serves a highly useful pur-
pose in that it furnishes a general guide
to the: formulation of objective criteria
or specific measuring rods by which to
judge individuals by their past record
of political activities.

There is no better method of judging
an individual, estimating what is in his
mind and heart, and predicting what his
conduct is likely to be in the future,
than by a critical review of what he did
in the past. This same principle is applied

--- Page 11 ---
every day in meeting and judging people
and it is the very foundation of. judicial
and legal principles. "By their deeds ye
shall know them.” It doesn’t do exact
justice in every case but no court of
law claims to do exact justice in all
cases. In any event, it is necessary to
investigate the political background of
thousands and thousands of persons and
there is not time to consider judicially
the mitigating circumstances which
every Nazi could conjure up to hinder
and delay such investigation. It must
be done with a surgeon’s knife if is to
be done at all, and if it is done that
way it will more nearly approximate
exact justice. It is ‘not possible to do it
by attempting to read a Nazi’s mind,
or by letting him say he is repentant,
or by gazing into a crystal ball.

A DANGEROUS CATEGORY

Therefore it has been defined what
constitutes more than a nominal Nazi
in terms of mandatory removal cate-
gories and discretionary removal cate-
gories. If he’s in a mandatory removal
category, he’s dangerous — get rid of
him immediately. If he’s in a discretion-
ray removal category, he’s bad but not
quite so bad. Use your own judgment
but get rid of him as soon as you can
dispense with his services or as soon
as you can find a suitable rdplacement.

Probably no two people would agree
100% with all of the categories of
mandatory removal. Some feel that they
go too far, some feel that they don’t
go far enough. Some of the categories
were arrived at by compromise. Many
of them were dictated by the Joint
Chiefs of Staff. But the mandatory
removal categories reflect collective
judgment, both here and at home, and
for those instances of individual in-
justice, the directive provides its own
escape valve by permitting the appeal

and review of cases where non-Nazis or
merely nominal Nazis have been harshly
treated.

INCLUDES ALL OFFICIALS

Public and semi-public office is defined
as follows: ’The terms public and semi-
public office’ shall include all officials, civil
servants and employees in the govern-
mental service excepting employment
of such.minor importance that the in-
cumbent or appointee is not placed in
a position to endanger Allied interests
or commit acts hostile to Allied prin-
ciples and purposes by reason of his
employment.”

Some Military Government officers
may well question the consistency of
the directive which is so specific. with
reference to mandatory and discretion-
ary removal categories and yet so
seemingly vague in its definition of
public and semi-public office, for here
it is in effect defining which persons in
public life must be investigated and
conversely, which need not be_ in-
vestigated. But this definition was
not drafted without considerable
thought.

Why not exempt common labor, or
persons earning less than a certain
monthly salary, or persons: below a
certain civil service grade or persons
in non-policy making positions? These

~ are all things to be considered, but the

answer is that no exact line can be
drawn if consideration is to be taken
of the security of our military occu-
pation. A janitor or scrubwoman is a
common laborer and yet some: janitors
or scrubwomen might have access to
important records by reason of their
employment in a building where the
records were housed. A policeman earns
a very low salary and enters the civil

--- Page 12 ---
service in the lower grade and yet no

"one would deny that he is in a most

favorable position by reason of his
employment to commit acts hostile to
Allied purposes. A school teacher is a
non-policy making civil servant and yet
it would be impossible to permit a
confirmed nazi to have the opportunity
to teach the coming generation of Ger-
mans the racial nonsense and the glori-
fication of military conquest which is
in Hitler’s "Mein Kampf.”

Military Government officers, special

control officers and using services in

‘the field must decide who is to be in-
vestigated and who need not be in-
vestigated. The test must be: is the
position of such minor importance that
the incumbent is not in a position by
reason of his employment to commit
acts hostile to Allied purposes. No
overall definitive line can be drawn
which will be the same’ in all fields of
government. and special administrative
instructions on this point are needed in
certain special agencies and government
owned utilities. Such instructions have
already been issued in the field of Postal,
Telegraph and Telephone services and
are about to be issued for railroad
employees.

"POSITIONS OF RESPONSIBILITY”

Similar difficulties are being encount-
ered with reference to important private
undertakings. Here it is necessary to
investigate and remove Nazis fram
’positions of responsibility’ according
to the broad policy. The directive de-
fines "positions of responsibility” as
meaning "policy-making, executive po-
sitions and personnel officers.” © This
would certainly include all officers and
directors of a corporation, but below
this level the decision in many cases
must rest in the sound judgment of
Military Government Officers, special

control officers and using services: in
the field. A definition of ”important
private undertakings” is contained in
the directive which compels the removal
of Nazis from certain classifications of ©
business and commercial enterprises but
again judgment must be exercised in the
field in deciding what enterprises "are
important factors in the German
economy or in the economy of the
region or community in which they
operate.” ; :

CONCERNED WITH POLICE

Something should be said about the
public safety responsibility with respect
to denazification. It is not the res-
ponsibility of Public Safety to remove
nazis from public office generally. It is
the responsibility of Public Safety to
remove nazis from the German police
and fire forces. It is the responsibility
of other Military Government officers,
special control officers and using ser-
vices to remove nazis in governmental
agencies and private undertaking under
their supervision.

Public Safety does provide a service
by operating a Special Branch to in-
vestigate the political backgrounds of
persons. In other words, it operates an
investigative and fact finding agency
to assist in making wise decisions on
removal, retention or appointment of
individuals, but it does not order Mili-
tary Government to remove persons, in
mandatory removal categories. The
directive does. If Military Government
Detachments choose to appoint or retain
a person who is in a mandatory removal
category, they are violating General
Eisenhower’s orders, not the orders of
the Public Safety officer.

Something should also be said abcut
the relationship between Counter-
Intelligence. and Public Safety. Ex-
perience in the field indicates that there

--- Page 13 ---
is a.tendency among some Military Gov- much narrower than the factors involved

ernment Officers to push the investiga- in denazification. The Public Safety
tive job off on to CIC and to consider Special Branch will clear each case with
CIC clearance as equivalent to a com- CIC as a routine matter, but that is
plete investigation. CIC has its hands only one of the steps in the vetting
full trying to round up all the thousands process. It does not relieve Public Safety
of persons in arrest categories and Officers of their responsibility for
hasn’t time to do the Public Safety job making the investigation, nor Military
of screening public office holders. Government officers of their respon-
Furthermore CIC is primarily concerned sibility for making the final decision on
with security considerations which are removal, retention or appointment.

We are all prone to complain about the large quantities of “poop” floating around,
and of necessity we restrict our reading to matters within our particular fields of interest.
The directive on "Removal of Nazis and Militarists” is the concern of all Military Govern-
ment officers, special control officers and using services. It contains our policy on one
of the principal objectives of the war. It is not a directive which is of interest only to
Public Safety Officers. Everyone should read it and understand it thoroughly, particularly
Part 4 which describes the procedures to be followed by all Military Government Officers
in order to key in smoothly with that portion of the job which is to be done by Public
Saféty. Commanding Officers of Military Government Detachments should circulate Part 4
to all officers and have them sign a paper certifying that they have read and understood
the procedures they are supposed to follow.

U.S. Organization for Mil Gov in Germany

The Commanding General, United accomplishing these tasks is outlined

States Forces European Theater, is char- below.

ged with two primary responsibilities Responsibility for the administration
with respect to the civilian population of Germany as a whole is lodged in the
in‘Germany. He serves as the United Control Council by agreement between
States member of the Control Council the powers concerned. The Council
and be is responsible for the admini- consists of representatives of the

United States, the United Kingdom, the
U.S. S. R. and France. General Eisen-
hower represents the United States. The
policies of the United States Govern-
ment with respect to military govern-

stration of military government in
the zone’ assigned to the United States
for the purpose of occupation and
administration. These responsibilities are

quite different and require extremely ment in Germany are transmitted in
close coordination between the officers instructions to General Eisenhower
engaged in these two activities. The or- through the United States Joint Chiefs

ganization of the U. S. Army for of Staff in Washington, D.' C.
10

--- Page 14 ---
“To assist him in the performance’ of
his duties as a member of the Control
Council General Eisenhower has estab-
lished a headquarters known as the ”U.
S. Group Control Council (Germany)”
which is responsible as follows:

a. To negotiate with the other nations
represented in the Control Council
allied policy. with respect to the Mili-
tary Government of Germany as a whole.

*b. To direct the execution with the
other nations represented in the Control
Council of so much of the agreed allied
policy as requires execution through
German central authorities.

c. To give such additional direction
“to the German central authorities as
may be required to implement Military
Government in the zone.

d. To prepare in coordination with the

Theater Staff for the Deputy Military.

‘Governor, policies for the U. S. Zone
conforming to U. S. views in the absence
of Control Council policies.

GEN. CLAY IN COMMAND

The U. S. Group Control Council is
located ‘in Berlin with the Quadripartite
Control Council. Lt: General Lucius D.
Clay is Commanding General of the

Group. He also serves as Deputy to

General Eisenhower, on the Control
Council. The Group is divided into the
following functional divisions:
(Ground), Naval, Air, Finance, Legal,
Industry, Trade and Commerce, Food
and Agriculture, Reparations, Deliveries
and Restitution, Communications, Man-
power, Transport, Public Health and
Welfare, Public Safety, Civil Ad-
ministration, and Prisoners of War and
Displaced Persons. The Group also in-
cludes the Directors of Intelligence,
Public Relations, Political Affairs and
Information Control. To coordinate the
'

Army .

11

work of these: divisions, General Clay
has three Assistant Deputy Military
Governors. Although most U. S. Group
personnel is military, many of. .the
divisions include civilian specialists in
various fields. For example, Mr. Charles
Fahy is Director of the Legal Division.
Prior to assuming this post, he was
Solicitor General of the United States.

CARRIED OUT. IN ZONES

Once agreement has been reached at
the Control Council on policies to be
followed with respect ‘to Germany as
a whole, the policies are carried out in
the various Zones by the respective
Zone Commanders. It is contemplated
that as limited Governmental functions
are organized on a central basis, policies
formulated. by the Contro? Council-with
respect to such activities will be trans-
mitted directly from the Control Coun-
cil.to the appropriate German Agencies.

General Eisenhower exercises © su-
preme authority in-the U.S. Zone of
occupation. Staff - responsibility -for
military government in the United
States Zone is handled for the Com-
manding General through the Assistant
Chief of Staff, G-5, USFET (Brig. Gen.
Adcock). located at Frankfurt. The
theater staff is charged with the exe-
cution, implementation and supervision
within the U. S. Zone of approved Con-
trol Council policy and, in the absence
of such policy, ‘of approved U. S..policy.
G-5 Division is organized along sub-
stantially the same lines as the U. S.
Group, having functional branches and
sections which closely parallel. the
divisions of the U. S. Group C. C. In
some instances personnel is identical.
For example, Brig. Gen. William H.
Draper is Chief of the Economics
Branch, USFET’ as well as Assistant

--- Page 15 ---
Deputy for Resources in the U. S. Group.
Cc. C.

The U. S. Zone is divided into the
Eastern Military District, comprising
the area of Bavaria, and the Western
Military District, comprising parts of
Baden, Wiirttemberg, Hessen and Hes-
sen-Nassau, and the Bremen Enclave.
The Military District is the basic unit
employed by the Military Governor for
military government in the U. S. Zone.

The City of Greater Berlin has been
constituted as -an International Zone,

one ‘sector of which is occupied by U.
S. Army Forces. Supreme authority in’
the City of Berlin is exercised-on a
quadripartite basis by an agency called |
the Kommandantura. The Commander
of U.S. Troops in the Berlin District
is the U. S. representative -on the
Kommandantura. Military’ Government
problems within the U. S. sector are a
responsibility. of the Commanding
General, Berlin District, who is. res-
ponsible in Military Government mat-
ters to the U. S. Group Control Council
and not to USFET.

Reorganization of German Private Welfare
Agencies

GERMAN private welfare agencies
are now authorized to reorganize and
operate on the Land subordinate levels
in the US Zone, it was announced by the
Internal Affairs Branch, G-5, USFET.
They are required to coordinate their
programs with those of the public
welfare agencies in each community in
order to avoid duplication of effort
and achieve the maximum of service to
the needy.

The principal private agencies are the
Red Cross, the Caritas Verband (Catho-
lic) and the Innere, Mission (Protestant).
Since the occupation, the national offi-
cers of these agencies have ceased to
function but the local units have shown
great vitality in many cities and small

12

communities. The new USFET Directive
will allow these isolated units to be tied
together into completely ‘denazified
Land-wide organizations.

During the coming winter, the welfare
problems will require all the public and
private welfare activity that can be
mustered. The private agencies provide
a medium through which each citizen
can do something to help himself and
to help others. The resettlement of Ger-

-mans, expelled from other countries, the

training and answering of inquiries
concerning, missing Germans, assistance
to the public relief. agencies in mass
feeding and disaster relief are among
the tasks which the private agencies
will tackle.

--- Page 16 ---
The Battle for Health

_A.recent conference of the Chief Pub-
lic Health Officers of the regions that
make up the American Zone of Occu-
pation in Germany was convened in
Frankfurt by G-5 Division of the Thea-
ter Staff to. dicuss problems, and to
bring out in open discussions all the. va-
rious problems related to the application

of the Theater directive pertaining to

Military Government organization, the
American troops, the displaced persons
and the civilian population. At this meet-
ing were gathered 15 US Army Medical
officers who are all experts in the com-
bined fields of public health and mili-
tary government and whose recommen-
dations would to a great degree influ-
ence the course of our civil administra-
tion of Germany, for through their
combined efforts and studies the control
of disease will be effected,

It is through these public health offi-
cers that all theater directives, orders
and policies on civilian medical and
health services are channelled. And it is
through the investigations they conduct
that the Military Commander is able to
estimate and determine the general
health and nutritional status of the Ger-
man population and the steps that will
be necessary to carry out a firm but
just and humane military occupation of
Germany.

At this conference plans were formu-
lated for preventing a general lapse of
health conditions in Germany taking
into account the existing conditions of
current or potential serious shortages
of food, fuel and transportation which
combined with the projected movements
of millions of the civil population sets
the stage for the onset of an epidemic

‘13

or pandemic similar to. the one that
followed the last war and possibly even
on a greater scale. It was recalled that
the typhus-epidemic alone that occurred
in Eastern Europe following the last
war claimed three millions in dead and
a score of millions in sick and that this
epidemic was accelerated? by the same
conditions now existing in Europe.

Through these 15 specialists and their
assistants the Military Governor con-
trols all the activities and functions of
the entire German civil medical and
health services, which includes medical
practice, nursing, hospitals, medical
supplies, “sanitation, veterinary services,
and the removal of nazi personnel and
influences therefrom.

TO SUPPRESS DISEASES

While hostilities were still in progress
the public health mission was the sup-
pression and control of diseases among
civilians that might be hazardous to our
forces or create civil unrest. After the
cessation of hostilities and as a result of
decisions arrived. at in the Potsdam
agreement the mission had broadened
for it became then the intent not only
to control disease conditions that might
effect American troops garrisoned in
our Zone but that we would now direct,
supervise and control the reestablish-
ment and maintenance, within reasonable
limits, of the normal German medical
and health services after removal of
Nazi influences. This latter addition to —
the’ mission of Military Government

. Public Health in Germany is. in keeping

with the American way of thinking; for
it is logical that a reasonably healthy
German population will react much

--- Page 17 ---
more favorably to democratic form of
living and government than would one
suffering from disease and unrest.

‘The chief’ objectives of the public
‘health: mission are being accomplished.
The German medical and health services
are becoming reestablished) and are
pushing ahead in spite of numerous
handicaps. However, from a health point
of view the good progress made this
summer and ‘the lack of any major epi-
demic conditions should not be consi-
dered too reassuring, for with the onset
of winter which is the season for epide-
‘mics of respiratory diseases there is

14

danger ahead and every effort must be
‘thade to make the Germans provide
themselves shelter, fuel and sufficient
“ood to carry them thru the winter. The
German civilian nutrition situation is
only fair arid there are little or no re-
serves to fall back on. This is further
aggravated by the fact that the body
requires 300 to 400: more calories during
the winter months to keep warm.

The success of the public health mis-

sion is difficult to measure for it is an

ironical fact that public health and pre-
ventive medicine can be measured only
by its failures.

--- Page 18 ---
’

GENERAL

British Appointments

Many appointments have been made
recently outside the US Zone which are
of considerable interest to those who
were formerly active in SHAEF and to
those who are now engaged in our own
Military Government. ©

Prominent among these appointments
has heen that of Lt. General Sir A. E.
Grasett, KBE, CB, DSO, MC, former
ACOS, G-5, SHAEF. General Grasett
has recently assumed his new duties as
Governor of Jersey.

Field Marshal Montgomery is now
Commander of the British Army of the
Rhine and Major Galloway is his Chief
of Staff. General Robertson was recently
appointed head of Military Government
with Major General Templar as_ his
deputy and Major General Kirby’ has
assumed responsibility for the admistra-
tive and organization side of Military
Government.

The above appointments are a part of
the new organization of British Military
Government.

Coal Shipments Up

DURING the month of August, 115,608

metric tons of coal were received in the

. United States Zone from the Saar and

Moselle. In addition to the coal, the

Saar also shipped into the U. S. Zone
2,677 metric tons of coke.

The Saar shipments were distributed
among the Military Governments of
Mannheim, Stuttgart, Darmstadt, Wies-

15

baden, Kassel, and Frankfurt. Quantities
were also sent to the 2nd Military Rail-
way Service, 7th Army Engineers and
Frankfurt Area. The Moselle ship-
ments were consigned to QM. Base
Depots in France. ;

Back to Forty Hours

THE Secretary of War, in accordance
with the desires of the President, has
recently directed that a five day, forty
hour, work week would become effec-
tive in the Zones of the Interior on 9
September for all civilian employees.
Certain provisions, however were stip-
ulated. If such a work week proved to
be a serious detriment to essential
operations, additional hours might be
scheduled for the sixth and seventh
days until-14 October without requesting
approval of the Commanding General
of the appropriate Force. Approvals of
temporarily additional hours as a regu-
lar schedule beyond 14 October, as the
numbers and amount of OT worked,
will be reported by the Forces to the
Director of Civilian Personnel and to
the Training Office of the Secretary of
War.

The Commanding Generals of the
Forces were urged to keep approvals
at an absolute minimum and to encou-
rage the use of skeleton staffs instead
of complete staffs as a means of redu-
cing the number of those who may be:

--- Page 19 ---
required to be employed in excess of
40 hours a week.

It was pointed out, however, that the
reduction of hours will not be consi-

dered as justification for any increase |
in total civilian strength in any Force’

or War Department Group.

Military Uniforms Prohibited
IN A-RECENT decision’ of the Control

Council, it was directed that former

members of the German armed forces,
and other German civilians, are to cease
wearing military uniform in its present
color. It was also stated that military
badges of rank, medals, or insignia are
also on the. forbidden list. Dyed uni-
forms, without insignia, are to be
authorized because of the _ present
clothing shortage, the deadline for the
conversion” of uniforms is 1 December,
1945, —

Marburg Medical School to
Open

AUTHORITY has recently been granted
to reopen-the Medical School at Mar-

‘burg University. Plans are being made

16

‘of malt.

and the preliminary steps taken to per-
mit immediate resumption. of classes.

Beer: for: Berlin -

THE Hans Sixtus Schultheiss Brewery
has been designated for production of
beer for U.S. Forces in Berlin. This
brewery has been in‘a position since the
first of August to start production’ but
has’ been ‘delayed’ because of lack
A plea has gone out to all
potential sources in an effort to obtain
200 tons of. malt monthly. | Anybody
knowing the whereabouts of. malt is
invited.to come to the aid of the beerless
Yanks in Berlin.

--- Page 20 ---
a a

GERMAN REACTIONS

IN PURSUING .our determination to
uproot. nazism- completely we: have
alréady recognized that our aim would
not be accomplished by: the mere ‘dis-
missal of people in. public service and
top ‘industrial. positions. Hence. the. re-
cent directive turning our anti-nazi
spotlight on the whole structure of Ger-
man life and demanding the elimination
of nazi influence wherever it is found
in trade, industry, or private business.
Those whose lives have been choked ‘by

the nazi weed for 12 years know how’

tough its roots are and would warn us
that the weeding will have to be done
meticulously and repeatedly. Although

from superficial reflection one might.

conclude:that it would be easiest to spot
and. eliminate nazis of every shape and
form in small towns and rural districts,
sincere. anti-nazis in such places draw
our attention to the fact that the con-
trary.is often the case and bid us. be
exceptionally alert. The situation in one
small town :in the Western Military
District as viewed. by, an. ardent. pro-
ponent of our. eradication policy is
pharaphrased below. Detachment offi-
cers at Kreis. level may determine to
what extent his claim is valid that the
state of affairs described. is symptomatic
for many other provincial towns in the
US Zone.

“Whoever today. represents the view-
point that national socialism and’ mili-
tarism: still’ retain a predominant: in-
fluence over the internal ‘structure of
German life meets with the same dis-

17

Danger of Nazi Solidarity i in Small Towns

belief:as he who pointed; prophetically,

to'the resurrection of militarism and the:

Bismarckian spirit in the years 1920-25.
Present conditions
actually such, that a lone antisnazi
cannot assert himself effectually against
the solidarity of the nazis. Even where
the latter by: misuse of official power
had: obtained: possession of the «job or:
business of an anti-nazi, the rectification
of the injustice is often considered as a
’personal affair” and the nazi is not
forcibly dispossessed. ‘The nazis. stick
together and seek by every possible
means to evade punitive measures
affecting them and to block the efforts

of anti-nazis to make headway toward-

being restored to their natural rights.
Two prominent instances are indicative
of many minor ones that have occurred:
Two months ago.the mayor of the town
announced over the radio the establish.
ment of ah official. ”Rectification
Bureau” (Wiedergutmachungsstelle). to
handle claims against nazi injustices.
About. the same time the radio. also
publicized the intention of the town
authorities to make all nazis evacuate
their homes in favor of non-nazis who
had been bombed out and. of’ fazi
victims ‘returning from concentration
camps: Despite the unusual’ publicity
neither of these anti-nazi. measures was
ever carried out. Both the mayor and

the housing-office head are described.

as proven anti-nazis and credited with

having had sincere intentions but they

were ‘in some way pressured
policy of non-actién.

into. .a

in this town’ are ,

\

--- Page 21 ---
The contention is that up to the
present the majority of nazis have not
been eliminated from positions of in-
fluence. The help which an old party
member. is immediately offered every-
where by his former colleagues is denied
in advance to an anti-nazi, each time
for an apparently logical reason which
the authorities often cannot check. The
‘influence of former members of - the
» NSDAP or its affiliates also extends,
unfortunately, to a multitude of non-
party yes-men whose thoughts continue
tobe controlled by the habits of their
twelve-year sheep-like response to
whatever the party wanted: In small
towns the few really democratic, offi-
‘cals (not those who offer Military Gov-
ernment just lip-service) are at a disad-
vantage in combatting nazis because each
of the latter has so many relations,

friends, or members of his professional -

fraternity on whom he can call for
support. It is in small towns too, where
trade opportunities are limited, that the
independent tradesmen such as jewelers,
druggists, etc., are mostly nazis who
were able to evade military service and
who have so far been left untouched
and are able to retain their wartime
monopoly of local business.

NAZIS AVOID REGISTRATION

Much of the evil, the small‘town com-
mentator avers, lies in the fact that,
contrary to Military Government orders,
a great number of party members avoid
registering as such. This is especially
easy for refugees from other parts of
Germany, to which there is being added
a considerable number still coming from
the Russian. zone. To correct this
situation the following measures. are
suggested by the informant: a) . the
publication of an alphabetical list of

18

all nazis in each town who have re-
gistered as such, so the populace can
make its own check-and report omis-
sions to the Military Government; b)
making it obligatory’ for all former
Block and Cell leaders to submit “a
written list of all former members of
the party or its affiliates in their block,
stipulating a heavy fine (perhaps RM 500)
for each ’forgotten” name; c) checking
by Military Government from outside
on the possible party. membership of
people whose residence in the town is
of wartime origin.

Qualified Approval of
Denazification: Three Opinions

AT THE present it is the denazi-.
fication program which seems to absorb
the attention of the average German.
This point was made abundantly clear
in recent conversation with three pro-
minent personalities in one of the Land.
kreise of Hessen-Nassau. The community
visited is premominantly agricultural; it
suffered very little war damage; andit has
every prospect of getting through the
winter without too much discomfort.
About 60% of the population is Pro-
testant, 30 % Catholic, and 10% ”Gott-
glaubig”. Before 1933: the Deutsche
Volkspartei was the strongest party,
receiving about 40% of all votes cast;
the Socialist Party was next with almost
as many; and the Catholic Center Party
third with about 20%. When the NSDAP
took over, about 25% of the population
of this Landkreis joined it, as compared
with less than 10% in Germany as a
whole. ,

The persons interviewed in this com-
munity. were the Landrat, a former.
member of the Center. Party, .who

--- Page 22 ---
joined no nazi organization; the former
_Biirgermeister who was removed from
office because of his party affiliation;
and a member of the local antifascist
group. All three, including the deposed
Birgermeister, were emphatically in
agreement with the principles under-
lying the denazification program. But
all three, including the antifascist him-
self, were just as emphatic in express-
ing their conviction that the program
should not be carried out too inflexibly.
The Landrat complained of the ad-
ministrative difficulties created by re-
moving from office all people with the
nazi stigma. The antifascist pointed out
that a serious social problem was being

created, that harmless functionaries
were being turned into potentially
dangerous malcontents. The former

Biirgermeister felt, as one might guess,
that every case should be considered
- on its own merits. Of course all ”bad”
nazis should be eliminated from public
view as well as from public office. But,”
he said, ’if you turn everyone out, from
business as well a8 ftom civil administ-
ration, far from placating the anti-
nazis you will alienate them; for many
anti-nazis _ have some relatives or
friends who were in the party. Further-
more, when you put into office ex-
‘tremely young men you do get indiv-
iduals who were not officially enrolled
in the party, but it should be remember-
ed that the young were all brought up
and educated under the nazi regime.”
The ex-Biirgermeister then went on to
state that in his opinion those who
joined the NSDAP after May 1, 1937,
were far worse than those who joined
it before. The early members joined in
good faith, not knowing the true
characteristics of Nazism. The others
could have no such excuse.

“laborators. It is

The Landrats principal objection to
the denazification program: seemed to
be that it was seriously interfering with
his administrative work. ”Why don't
the American authorities have enough
faith it the officials whom they appoint
to permit them, the Germans, to carry

-out denazification? We could do it. We

know who the criminals are. We also
know that many of them never joined
the party, yet profited from it. Let us
weed them out, but let the little man
alone who simply joined the party to
keep his job. The confidence of the
people would thus be won, administrat-
ive dislocation would be reduced to a
minimum, and there would be no group
of malcontents to deal with.”

FAVORED PROGRAM

The antifascist was in favor of the
denazification program but believed that
it was being carried out too arbitrarily.
There was danger that it might create
problems more serious than those aris-
ing from the mere presence of a former

“party member in a public position of

minor importance. He was disappointed
that the organization which he re-
presented had not been consulted in
regard to,the removals or appointments
which had been made. He felt that in
some cases the change had definitely
been for the worse. "If denazification is
to be carried out successfully,” he
stated, ’through ‘all branches of private
enterprise, it will most certainly be
necessary for the American authorities
to secure the services of German col-
impossible for a
foreigner, newly arrived in Germany,

. to determine to what extent. different

19

individuals derived personal advantage
from their party connections. But we
know, so why not let us carry out the
purge, under the overall supervision of
Military Government?”

--- Page 23 ---
LESSONS FROM OPERATIONS

RAPID RESULTS IN ROAD REPAIR

IN .THE Mannheim area, responsibility
for roads and bridges was assumed re-
cently by the Transportation Officer.
Arrangements were made with the
Engineer unit stationed there to stock-
pile gravel and asphalt along military
roads needing repair. The responsibility
for securing necessary labor and ma-
terial with which to complete the re-
pairs will fall to the local Military Gov-
ernment Detachments. In this way, the
more. urgent repair of all local military
roads in the Mannheim area will be
expedited.

RATIONS FOR RIVER RIDERS
WITH THE reopening of river traffic,
many problems have arisen in regard to
the personnel employed on the river
boats. To meet the needs of those who

must travel in different zones, and par-*

ticularly the barge operators who will
be moving up and down the Rhine River,
travellers’ food stamps and temporary
ration cards are being issued by the
Provincial Food Office.

WHERE SHALL WE. START?

FROM ‘Wiesbaden comes these inter-
esting highlights of political develop-
ment. ’The majority of the anti-nazi
Germans believe in democracy by decree
and in freedom under the watchful but
stern eye of a benevolent Gestapo. With
no faith in their own political abilities
they still look to the occupational forces
for guidance. The-ideas of the anti nazi
elements are best exemplified by the

20

following excerpts from speeches of
some leading members of these groups:
”*We anti-nazis are an old lot. Our
*Youth’. is over forty. We have no
strength; at fifty we are actually eighty.
Years of fear have aged all of us.”
(From an SPD member). ”Where shall
we start? Shall we lead our prostituted
women on the road to virtue or shall
we rehabilitate our proletarian bums?”
(A KPD member). "I’m certain of only
one thing — that faith must play an
important role in the rebuilding of
Germany. Faith in a leader brings Hit-
lerism; faith in God brings equality
among men.” (From a Centrist). In spite
of all this cogitation of a ’Weltschmerz”
caliber, old jealousies of less lofty
aspects are re-awakening. These under-
surface currents come to fore in the
questions of trade unions. In spite of the
fact that no“trade unions have as yet
been formed, two:trade union move-
ments are in existence — the Communist
and Socialist. Apart from their names
there are no real differences between
them and they both labor under their
misconception of the powers of the
trade union in the period to come. In
the workers’ committee, the forerunner
of the trade union, they are now toying:
with the idea of forming one overall
trade union which’ will be subdivided
into departments for specific industries.
Most interested individuals take it for
granted that the Union will be of the
vertical type. In attempting to discover
the differences between the Socialist
and Communist trade unionist one is
struck only by pettiness. The Socialists
point to their experience in union mat-
ters while Communists parade their

--- Page 24 ---
wounds and bloody shirts. Otherwise the
task of differentiation still awaits a
supersensitive political analyst.”

INTER-ZONAL TRADE

FROM Detachment E-5 comes the
report that several areas in the British
Zone were visited to investigate the

possibility of inter-zone trade of surplus |

food commodities, subject to the
approval of higher American & British
Headquarters. At Hannover a surplus
of 2000 tons of sugar is available for

trade for certain chemical products: in-

the US Zone. At Hamburg there was
found a surplus of dairy cattle, most of

which will be slaughtered for food
because of the lack of fodder. The
possibility of exchanging some of

the cows for older milk cows in this
area was discussed, and consideration
was given to the use of a mill in that
area which can process 12,000 tons of
oil seed monthly.

GOVERNING BOARD PROPOSED -

IN ORDER to lighten the overwhelm-
ing responsibility now placed on the
shoulders. of the Landesdirektor fiir
Landwirtschaft und Ernahrung, and to
give a voice, to Baden in such recom-
mendations as the Land Food Estate for
North Wiirttemberg-Baden may present,
a Landesausschuss (Governing Board)
has been proposed to be ‘constituted as
follows: a chairman, 4 farmers (Wiirtt.),
chief of Genossenschaften (Wiirt.), 2
farmers (1 each LKB’s Mannheim and
Karlsruhe), chief of Genossenschaften
(Baden). This Landesausschuss if appro-

21

ved would meet at least once a week
with the Landesdirektor to récommend
action and to clear up outstanding pro-
blems. The Landesdirektor would trans-
mit their wishes to the Military Govern-
ment for approval.

This Landesausschuss is proposed as -
a temporary body, to remain only until
the present Land Food Estate Ad-
ministration has been full re-activated,
at which time it is hoped that the former
Landwirtschaftskammer can be recreat-
ed, i. e., separated from the Land ad-
ministration as it was before 1933.

WHAT ‘NEXT?

THE problem met by Military Gov-
ernment Detachments are many and
varied, but the Bremen Enclave recently
encountered one of the strangest. A
breach in ‘diplomatic relations was
threatened until the Detachment arrang-
ed for the delivery of three live sheep
to the British steamship Ocean Strength. |
These sheep were for use as sacrificial
animals in celebration of the Moham-
medan feast of Ramadan by 15, Arab
crew members. The request for the
sheep was submitted by the. British
Ministry of War Transport. The ship’s
captain paid for the sheep.

POLICE TURN TO THE DOGS
LK Hofgeismar (C 1523) has started
a school for police dogs. This school is
under the direction of one of the police-
men and, as soon as the dogs are judged
capable they will be used as part of the
police force.

--- Page 25 ---
PRESS COMMENTS

Denazification Backed by US Press

DENAZIFICATION measures outlined
at the recent Military Government Con-
ference at USFET Headquarters have
been the subject of favorable editorial
comment in the U. S.. press, while cor-
respondents, in their dispatches from
the field during the past week, devoted
much attention to the problems of the
approaching winter.

"Defeated Germany is full of former
SS and Gestapo men,” said the Phila-
delphia Inquirer in commenting on the
orders for the denazification and de-
militarization of the Reich. All of these
elements remain as a menace to the
world..They remind. us sharply that
Nazism is not dead, but playing
_ possum.”

"Gen. Eisenhower, whose sagacity as
a military leader is almost equalled by
his clear perception of this fundamental
issue, has placed at the top of his agenda
the- problem of rooting nazis out of
positions of power and influence in the
American Zone,” declared the Boston
Globe. After nearly three months of
experience he feels that the business of
getting hold of the area is finished.
While this leaves many problems, the
extirpation of Fascism in its German
guise seems to him to rate a top pri-
ority from now on.”

Two conclusions are to be drawn from
the Military Government Conference
proceedings, asserted Drew Middleton,
correspondent of The New York Times.
First, "that a considerable amount. of

22

denazification still remains to be accom-
plished, especially in the industrial and

. commercial fields, despite the fact that

between 50,000 and 60,000 nazis at poli-
cy making levels are now in jail.”
Second,” that if the plans at present
under discussion for the disposition of -
industrial plants that contributed to
armaments manufacture without manu-
facturing weapons are accepted, the
German economy has little chance to
recover, and Germany, by reason of her
economic weakness, will be reduced to
the status of a third rate power”. —

Notwithstanding the current empha-
sis placed on ending German power to
end war the first practical problem is
to start the Reich economic machine
functioning again”, said Harry Kern in
News Weeek.: The reason for this at-
titude is simple: fear of what is going
to happen this winter, not only in Ger-
many, but all over Europe. American
and British officers already see the
shadow of starvation looming in the
Reich. If famine comes, trouble may
spread quickly to other countries, espe-
cially France”.

Other observers also warn of the pos-
sibility of famine. After a five weeks
tour of Europe, Lorna Hay and Hay-
wood Magee, in.an article "Report on
Chaos”, in the London Picture Post,
predict that ’German misery this winter
will be on a scale unknown in Europe
since the Middle Ages”. Closely parallel
is the warning of Rhona Churchill,
correspondent’' of the London Daily

--- Page 26 ---
Mail, that "famine and pestilence, far
worse than anything anticipated by
Military Government four weeks ago,
is now virtually certain to “sweep
through British occupied Germany this
winter unless plans for feeding Ger-
mans are radically modified and more
help is forthcoming from outside”.
The coming winter will provide a test
for the Allied policy of a hard peace,”
declared Joe Alex Morris, in an article
in Collier’s magazine. ”’The real test
of our determination to make Germany
shift for itself will come next winter,
when it is obvious that Germany will
be at starvation level in many - places
unless there is outside assistance, and
when the question of food and fuel
carries important implications for the
future of Europe he said.” As long as
‘the United Nations avoid engaging in
political or ideological maneuvering,
such problems can be solved by joint
action without weakening the policy of
a hard peace”.

Handling of DPs

The work of Military Government in
handling displaced persons has recently
received several bouquets from maga-
zine and newspaper writers. In an article
in Collier’s, on ’Europe’s Hangover”,
W.._B. Courtney declared that the offi-
cers of the Displaced Persons Branch,
G-5 SHAEF had untangled the menacing
chaos of the vast migration criss-cros-

sing the Reich with what seems:to me . ‘

to have-been incredible skill and des-
patch”.

In a Frankfurt dispatch, a Manchester
Guardian correspondent described as
”a remarkable achievement” the hand-
ling by Military Government’ authori-
ties of these huge numbers of the ’dis-

23

placed’ who thronged the roads ‘of Ger-
many during the spring .and_ early
summer.” -

A more critical note was voiced by
Sigrid Schultz of ‘the Chicago Tribune,
who said that while correspondents and
visitors "are being taken on tours of a
few model camps for displaced persons,
conditions in out-of-the-way camps re-
main unsatisfactory”. :

War Criminals

Publication of the first of major war
criminals has directed editorial attention
to the importance and. significance. of
the coming Nuremberg trials. ”Public
opinion will expect the trials to be ruth-
less, expeditious and ‘of such a nature
as to rob the criminals of any romantic
glamor which might poison the minds
of the Germans of the next generation”,
declared the London News Chronicle.
The Manchéster Guardian warned that
the Allies must’ guard against giving
any impression that the proceedings are
political trials. "The way they are car-
ried out must appear just not only to
the German people (for if justice is not
apparent all their reforming ‘effects
will be lost) but to historians writing
in any country a hundred. years from
now”.

The London Daily Herald expressed
the view that ’the sooner:.the trials are
held the better”, and the Daily Worker
pointed out that for the first. time in
history, ’men, however highly - placed;
are to be made to pay for aggression
and for the crimes which, though they
revolt the universal conscience, have been
hitherto committed with impunity for
want of a responsible tribunal to try
them”.

Expressing satisfaction over the na-

--- Page 27 ---
mes on the first list, the Soviet newspaper
Pravda said that these criminals were
not mere officials of a cannibal fascist
regime. They were the masters them-
selves, the commanders and inspirers
who directed Hitler’s hordes and in-
structed the butchers”.

Report from Japan

Dispatches from observers with Gen.
MacArthur’s occupation forces in Japan
indicate that military government offi-
cers in the land of the Rising Sun should
have little trouble with the population.
The placidity and even good humor of
the Japanese man in the street in the
face of the Allied military occupation
is one of the great surprises of the Paci-
fic war”, cabled A. T. Steele to the New
York Herald Tribune from Tokio. ”The
conclusion is inescapable that while the
country’s morale was at low ebb because
of . fire raids, atomic bombing. hunger
and the Soviet attack, it was Emperor
Hirohito’s defiance of the militarists
and his decision to sue for peace that
are chiefly responsible for the present
compliant attitude of the . Japanese
public”.

Richard Johnston, United Press cor-
respondent, however, warned that the
attitude of the Japs was that "next time
we will do better”. We will never be
safe from another sneak attack, declared
I. F. Stone in P. M., until the three roots
of. Japanese aggression are extirpated:
the Emperor cult, the militarist tradi-
tion, and the control of the Japanese
economy by a handful of great families.

Random Comments

”As victor in the greatest war of
history, we are committed now to arm-

24

ed occupation of the lands of our defea-
ted enemies until it is assured that the
principles for which we fought shall
prevail. To meet those immediate obli-
gations will require the maintenance
for some time to come of all measure |
of our present land, sea and air power”
— President Truman in message to Con-
gress. . .
* *

There are many interesting sights
in Germany these days, but the one that
tickles many Americans the most‘ is the
sight of the arrival for interrogation
each day of a group of Germany’s most
exalted industrialists and financiers,
who are learning the cost of losing the
war they helped the Nazis start” —
Carl Levin in New York Herald Tribune.

* *

”Coal is the basic industry for recon-
struction not only in Britain, but in
most of stricken Europe, and if there is
failure of production of coal, there will
be failure everywhere”. — London Daily
Mail.

* *

Above all else, it will be necessary to
give the Germans back their soul and
their conscience. To do that we will
have to resort to every device at our
command. At times we will have to be
brutally harsh, but that is the only way
we can bring them back into the civi-
lized family. It is my belief that motion
pictures can play a very real and a very

‘pronounced part in this task. We can
: show them directly and dramatically the

proof of their crime and its extent”. —
Darryl F. Zanuck in Washington Merry-
Go-Round.
. * * ,
Germany will progress politically as
quickly as the minds of the people are
cleansed and as soon as cultural accom-

--- Page 28 ---
‘plishments testify to the German
people’s moral right to existence” —
Prof. K. H. Bauer, rector, Heidelberg
University. :

_ * *

“If we are forced to fight Germany
again, it will not be Gen. Eisenhower’s
fault. Few men ever expected as com-
plete a housecleaning. It may save us
years of occupation” — Gabriel Heatter,
MBS, in discussing capture of Nazi war
criminals. .

* *

A British officer on the Control
Commission said: ”Schmeling was
nothing more than a political champion.
He was used as a symbol of nazism
throughout the war for the German
youth. We don’t want such a man pub-
lishing books for what he contends will
be the re-education of German youth,

25

now that the war is over” — Associated
Press dispatch.

*O*

*l’d screen the young officers of the
Army, who are the finest peoplé I know,
and see how many of them were willing
and could qualify for foreign service.
Most of them are going to be looking
for jobs. They-know the score over here
and they have a very definite idea of
what moving in here cost us, of what
it is we’re entitled to expect in return.
What I would throw the hades out as
fast as I could pay’em up to date is that
breed of unctuous do-gooder who’s_ been
over here so long and has been sucked
around so much that he’s decided the
United States isn’t entitled to a very
deep bow from everybody who had any-
thing to do with this war”. — Bill
Cunningham in Boston Herald.

--- Page 29 ---
QUERIES

Period for Reparations

Q. Will Reparations be stretched over
a period of years?

A. It is not so intended. The exchange
of industrial capital goods and other
commodities between the zones, accor-
ding. to the agreed Potsdam report,
must be completed within a maximum
of five years. If Reparations are con-
fined’ mainly, as, it is expected, to in-
dustrial capital goods, natural and
external resources, and do not depend
upon production, they can probably
all be completed in that time.

Restitution to Allied Nations

Q. Has their been any agreement in
regard to Restitution to Allied Nations?

A. Restitution was not mentioned in
the Potsdam Report. The physical return
— to some degree — of directly identi-
fiable and difficult-to-replace industrial
capital equipment, small shipping and
other removed assets of claimant na-
tions, however, may be made from the
US Zone as soon as a policy has been
fixed. °

DAF Property

Q. Are we to take DAF property
whenever we find it?

A. DAF property should. be taken
whenever and wherever it is found. Since
this type of property willbe taken on an
Ad Hoc basis, it means that PCO’s will
have to cooperate and coordinate their
activities with respect to this property

with PCO’s at different
levels.

and higher

Disposition of Forms

Q. What disposition should be made
of forms MGAF (1)?

A. This form is a questionnaire or de-
claration which’ must be executed by
every person subject to Law No. 52.
These forms have been delivered to the
Reichsbank branches, but no instructions
have as yet been issued to the Reichs-
bank as to their disposition. Further-
more, notice has not been given to the
public directing them to obtain this
form, to execute it, and to return it to
any particular depository. The mecha-
nics through which distribution, execu-
tion and collection will be effected
should be worked out by each Military
District. The executed forms will be of
immense value and assistance to PCO’s

_ insofaras they pertainto those properties

26

coming within the scope of the Property
Control Directive.

Blocked Accounts

Q. Should blocked accounts be taken
into control separately by the Property
Control Officer?

A. Where the account is valuable and
it constitutes property falling within the
Property Control Directive, it should be
taken into control.

Travel Out of Germany

Q. Can German nationals in the US
Zone now travel in and out of Germany?

--- Page 30 ---
A. Requests for travel outside Ger-

many for private reasons cannot be:

favorably considered at this time (Refer:

Paragrapli 159a, Public Safety Techni-_

cal Manual).

‘If the travel is sponsored by Military
or government authorities as essential
to their needs, supporting statements
should be forwarded along ‘with appli-
cation forms to Combined Travel Secu-

‘PERSONAL DATA

Decorations
OAK LEAF CLUSTER —
DISTINGUISHED .SERVICE MEDAL
Brig Gen C. L. Adcock, G-5, USFET

DISTINGUISHED SERVICE MEDAL
Brig Gen Frank McSherry, G-5, USFET

OAK LEAF CLUSTER — LEGION
OF MERIT -
Col Hayden N. Smith, G-5, USFET
‘Col ‘William L. Wilson, G-5, USFET

LEGION OF MERIT
Col Bernard Bernstein, G-5, USFET

27

rity Board, USGCC. It is also necessary
that precise details such as purpose of
visit, names.of plants or concerns to be
visited, or other pertinent information

_be indicated.

The evaluation of the necessity or
desirability of travel in such cases would
be most helpful to the board in making
its decision.

BRONZE STAR

Lt Col William A. Curtin, Jr., G-5,
USFET

Lt Col Ben H. Brown, Jr., G-5, USFET

\ .
Returned to the States

*Lt Col Ben H. Brown, Jr., G-5, USFET

Lt Col William A. Curtin, Jr., G-5, USFET
Major Albina Shimaus, G-5, USFET
Capt William McCullouch, 2nd MG Reg
Sgt Marvin G. Sloan, 2nd MG Reg

Sgt Nicholas Noto, 2nd MG Reg

Pfc Lloyd A: Heffner, 3rd MG Reg

Pfc Steven.S. Mizia, 3rd MG Reg

--- Page 31 ---
