--- Page 2 ---
RESTRICTED
No. 2 — 4 AUGUST 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF
G-5 DIVISION
USFET,

INFORMATION BRANCH

RESTRICTED

--- Page 3 ---
In
BR

ZONE

KASSE is
Henn
~_wr ts
J vides
coe
Hered
MARBURG
ae GIESSEN
eT ZL ARO et
}
q FRIEDBERG

a ZONE

Tigray EASTERN
ie DISTRICT

thm 9
Mepperticio
NHEIM
Pat ete. |
IDFLRERG
shoestengee
BRUCHSAL SiN HALL,
KARLSRUHE
WeouRL ACH \
7 ot eingen Fhe an
UDWIGSBURG
ZHEIN UTGAR AALEN
ESSING GOOPPINGEN
BO IRCHEIM EIQENHEIM ,
77 Mart ingen EISLINGEN
- x
\
“\
“N
‘\

i U.S. ZONE
i WESTERN DISTRICT

--- Page 4 ---
RESTRICTED
No. 2— 4 AUGUST 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE
ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF
G-5 DIVISION
USFET

INFORMATION BRANCH

RESTRICTED

--- Page 5 ---
CONTENTS

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY .
German Food Problems and Policies .
New Criminal Justice for Germany .
Military Government and the DISCCs 5
De-Nazification is Your Job
The Combined Displaced Persons Executive

Recovery and Protection of Art Treasures

GERMAN REACTIONS
Timidity Noticed Among Anti-Nazis
Latest Rumor Crop

Passing of Non-Fraternization .
LESSONS FROM OPERATIONS
PRESS COMMENTS
QUERIES.

PERSONAL DATA

PAGE

11
13
15
17
17
17
18
20
22

26

27

--- Page 6 ---
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

German Food Problems and Policies

WESTERN Germany, or the area of
occupation by the British, French, and
American Forces, normally is about 60
to 70 percent self-sufficient in food
supply. The US Zone itself is ordinarily
more nearly self-sufficient than the
entire area, but the food situation has
deteriorated from the normal due to a
number of factors.

One of the chief factors is the popu-
lation shift that has taken place since
1939 away from the Ruhr industrial area
into the provinces of Schleswig-Holstein
in the North and Bavaria and Wiirttem-
berg in the South. Preliminary popu-
lation estimates show increases of 27
percent in Bavaria and 4 percent for
Wiirttemberg over 1939.

In addition to this rather fixed con-
dition of increased population in the
U. S. zone are the problems resulting
from the actual conquest of Germany.
These include disrupted transport and
communications, loss of control over
food production and_ distribution
through dissolution of the German food
administration, destruction of food
stocks, loss of farm labor, interruption
of spring planting in some areas, and
the presence of large numbers of dis-
placed persons and prisoners of war
that have to be fed.

To these must be added the ad-
ministrative problems attendent upon
the division of Germany into national
_zones of occupation, and, in the initial
stages of Military Government, further
division into areas under the respon-

sibility of tactical troops. Combined
with transport difficulties, these con-
ditions have inhibited food movements
from surplus to deficit areas.

Under these conditions the ration
scales established for German civilians
in the initial stages of Military Gov-
ernment were set at extremely low
levels by German food officials. In the
American Zone they ranged from 700
to 1,100 calories per person per day for
normal consumers.

ESTABLISH SCALE

In anticipation of the difficulties that
would be faced during the initial period
of Military Government while military
operations were still in progress, a scale
of maximum allowances of rationed
foods was established by a SHAEF
Directive of 25 January 1945. Under this
Directive the maximum allowance for
normal consumers was 1,550 calories
from rationed foods per person per day
with a range for all consumer categories
extending from 1,000 calories for small
children to 2,800 calories for very heavy
workers. This Directive also laid down
general policies governing distribution
of food in Germany. Briefly stated these
policies were that no imported food
would be issued to the German popula-
tion except in extreme emergencies; that
levels’ of food consumption by the
German population would not exceed
those in liberated territories in the
SHAEF Zone . of responsibility; that
German authorities would be respon-
sible for re-establishing controls

--- Page 7 ---
over food distribution and eliminating
discrimination in administering them;
and that German authorities would be
required to provide food. for United
Nations Displaced Persons at an average
daily rate, insofar as feasible, of 2,000
calories per person.

SELECT GERMAN OFFICIALS

In order to implement these polic:es,
one of the first jobs of Military Gov-
ernment food and agriculture officers
has been to select German officials and
charge them with responsibility for
reestablishing food rationing and distri-
bution systems and agricultural pro-
duction controls. This was complicated
in the early stages by uncertainty as to
the boundaries that should be en-
compassed within the jurisdiction of the
food offices since the military districts
did not always correspond to customary
German administrative boundaries. The
regional office has been the basis on
which food controls have been rebuilt.

Considerable difficulty has been ex-
perienced in locating reasonably compet-
ent German personnel who are free of
Nazi Party affiliations. In some cases
doubtful people had to be retained
temporarily until suitable replacements
could be found. Cooperation of German
officials has been good from the begin-
ning. They understood that the respon-
sibility was theirs and acted accordingly.

In the initial stages of Military Gov-
ernment, strenuous efforts were made
to get as much seed distributed as
possible in order to secure maximum
production. It is estimated that plantings
this year are at least 90 percent of
vormal, with the exception of sugar
beets, for which there was a critical seed
shortage.

As previously indicated, the average
allowance of rationed food for normal

consumers: within the US Zone was
below 1,000 calories per person per day.
The average for the next period was
raised to approximately 1,150 calories
per day for the normal consumer.
Figures for the current ration period
beginning 23 July are not yet available,
but indications are that the allowances
of rationed foods will be approximately’
the same as for the preceding period.
In most areas supplementation from
unrationed foods, chiefly fresh fruits
and vegetables, is available. According
to general estimates the supplement-
ation so obtained ranges from 100 to
300 calories per person per day. In none
of the regions has the allowances of
rationed foods reached the approved
maximum. :

In anticipation of a critical situation
due to these abnormally low allowances,
which nutritionists agree cannot be
maintained for very long without
serious effects, authorization to the
Supreme Commander was requested and
obtained for issues to Germans of up
to 210,000 tons of wheat per month for
June, July, and August, and 96,250 tons
for September. To date none of this has
been isued to German civilians within
the U. S. Zone. Though some stocks of
imported wheat have been used for
feeding displaced persons, the majority
have been fed from indigenous stocks.

RAISE MINERS' RATION

Due to the urgency of coal production
authorization was made early in July
for issues of imported wheat to supple-
ment miners’rations. At the same time
maximum allowances for rations for
miners were raised from 2,250 to 3,000
calories for surface workers and from
2,800 to 3,400 calories for underground
workers. Instructions were given that
most of the increased allowance should
be provided at the mid-day meal to

--- Page 8 ---
ensure that the miner himself con-
sumed it.

The farm labor position was difficult
in the first period after conquest,
because most of the foreign laborers
forced to work by the Nazis immediately
left the farms. This was soon counter-
balanced, however, by returning pri-
soners of war. Agricultural laborers
were given first priority on discharges
from the Wehrmacht. In addition in-
structions were issued that no one wlio
had left the urban centers would be
allowed to return without certifying
that he was returning to an essential
job in the urban area.

INDUSTRIES TO REOPEN

Industries making essential production
and processing materials, such as
fertilizer, insecticides, binder twine,
threshing machines, flour milling
machinery and the like have been per-
mitted tc reopen. Surveys of require-
ments for food processing industries
have been conducted and efforts are
being made to secure needed supplies
and allocate them where most needed.
Problems of fertilizer supply are also
under active consideration. Production
of butter and cheese which is normally
high during the summer and is stocked
for the winter has been hampered by
lack of facilities, as has fruit and
vegetable preservation. The most critical
item is doubtless. coal, particularly
required in sugar refining, with trans-
portation another very critical factor.
Instructions have been issued assigning
the highest priority to materials needed
in food processing and distribution,
including authorization of Army trans-
portation when civilian facilities have
been exhausted.

An additional factor was recently
injected into the food picture in the

U.S. Zone with the agreement that food
supplies for Berlin would be provided
on a replacement basis from the ‘Ameri-
can Zone to provide for the ‘American
Sector of Berlin. This has meant, an
additional responsibility for feeding
1,700,000 people and has required ship-
ment of livestock from the American
Zone, and of fish from’ the Bremen
Enclave to provide for their needs.

A production plan has been prepared
for the crop year 1945—46 and is being
discussed with the regional offices.
Basically, it provides for increases in
direct consumption crop such as bread
grains and’ potatoes, and. decreases in
livestock” numbers. Also in order to
conserve existing grain supplies, the
brewing of beer for civilian’ consumpt-
ion has been prohibited. To implement
the crop production plan for 1945—46,
efforts are being made to get reliable
estimates of requirements for agri-
cultural supplies needed to secure in-
creased production. Plans are being
developed to provide and distribute the
supplies which include fertilizer, seed,
farm machinery and farm “implements.

COORDINATION SHOWN

Experience with problems of food
and agriculture so far have shown that
a coordination of food production and
distribution plans and programs between
the regions within the U.S. zone and
between the Zones is essential for most
efficient utilization of existing supplies

‘and facilities. Under present arrange-

ments, with the highest level of German
officials at the region, this coordination
is being supplied by Military Govern-
ment officers, within the zone through
the Theater organization, and ‘among
the zones through the machinery of the
Combined Food and Agriculture Com-
mNtee of the Combined Resources and

--- Page 9 ---
Allocations Board under the Combined“

Deputy Military Governors. This places
an undue burden om Military Govern-
ment and puts it in the position of per-
forming part of the job of food distri-
bution instead of supervising the Ger-
mans in their performance of it. “

Another problem looming large in all
minds is the conditions during the

winter when no supplementation of ~

fresh fruits and vegetables will be avail-
able and present, ration scales will be

insufficient to prevent disease. and

» malnutrition. With this in mind, plans

have been prepared for imports of food
to make up probable deficiencies. These
have ‘been computed on a comparable
wheat: basis, assuming a ration’ level of -
2,000 calories per person per day for
planning purposes. Fhe neéd for such
imports is to some extent dependent on
whether normal movement of food
supplies can be resumed, from surplus
to deficit areas within all of Germany.

New Criminal Justice for Germany

THE. administration. of criminal
justice reflects the character of every
country, This explains why the reform
of criminal jurisdiction and. procedure
was a matter of first priority for the
Nazi legislators. The German courts are
now being reopened throughout the US
Zone and the newly appointed judges
are instructed in applying the German
law..to eliminate all National Socialist
doctrines. In view of the rebirth of
judicial activity in Germany, it was a

task of first importance to Military -

Government to revise the German legis-
lation dealing with criminal jurisdiction
atid the rules for apprehending, trying
and sentencing offenders.

-The-German law inthis field is laid
down in two basic Codes of 1877: the
Code on the Constitution of Courts
and. theCode of Criminal Procedure.
Both Codes have been modified many
times; but since the assumption of
power by the Nazis and, in particular,
since the outbreak of this war such a
substantial number of changes affecting
the Codes have been enacted that apart

from the elimination of Nazi features
it was imperative for Military Govern-
ment to consolidate the numerous
ordinances and to publish-a new com-
plete and intelligible text. This: work
necessarily involved a careful investiga-
tion of the Codes to eliminate abuses of
law and to insure a fair trial consistent
with our conception of. justice.

To achieve*this aim, a‘satisfactory
solution had to be found to the follow-
ing basic issues:

1. The jurisdiction of criminal courts.

2. The role of the police in dealing
with offenders.

3. The powers of the public prosecutor

4. The status of the judge.

5. The rights of the defendant.

With respect to-each one of these
questions we will indicate the condition
created by the Nazis and the changes

.brought about by Military Government.

It is well known that the Nazis have
introduced a number of special courts
(Volksgerichtshof, Sondergerichte and
SS, Party: and Police Courts). All-- of

--- Page 10 ---
these. have been abolished by us. In
addition, Poles, Jews and Gypsies. were
deprived of the right to be tried by a
court; they were dealt with entirely by
by. the police. We have restored the
principle well known in our country
that no one can be deprived of liberty
and property by German authorities
without due process of law. All offenses
for which a fine or sentence of im-
prisonment up to 5 years.or of hard
labor up to 2 years is an adequate
punishment come before a single judge

at the Amtsgericht; whereas the Straf-_.

kammer at the Landgericht consisting
of three judges has jurisdiction over
all other crimes of a more. serious
nature. The, appointment of lay-judges
to assist’ professional judges at the
Amtsgericht is planned for a later stage.
From the decision of the Amtsgericht
an appeal goes to the Landgericht, and
from the Landgericht acting as court of
first instance to the Oberlandesgericht.

GESTAPO ALL-POWERFUL ;

During the Nazi period, the ill-famed
secret police had an. all-powerful in-
fluence. The Gestapo decided whether
charges should be preferred or the al-
leged offender should be locked up
without trial.:A person who had been
acquitted or had served the sentence
could still be sent to a concentration
camp without any judicial remedy being
available. This arbitrary police dictat-
orship has come to an end. From now
on no person can be detained by a Ger-
man authority without a specific charge
and without the right to have his case
reviewed by a judge.

Under the Weimar Republic the public
prosecutor could order search of dwell-
ings and seizure of personal property
only in cases of imminent danger. Even
then such order had to be confirmed by
a judge. But the Nazis being more

interested in strengthening their au-
thority than in the means used dis-
regarded the rights of the individual

. and vested in the Staatsanwalt the ‘un-

checked power of arrest, seizure, search
and impounding of mdil. “We have’
restored the condition as it existed’
prior to 1933. ~

FORCED TO OBEY

Under Hitler the judge had to obey
the orders of the Fiihrer. If he did not
apply the law in aécordance with the
Parity program =, even law enacted

" under ‘the first President of the Weimar

Republic, the socialist Ebert — or if for.
any reason the SS was displeased with
his attitude shown in or, out of court,
he was dismissed on the grounds of
political unreliability. At the request of
the public prosecutor, the Nazi-judge
had to open the trial against his better
judgment even if the evidence in the
case made a conviction highly im-
probable. All these abuses have been
eliminated. Under the new Code the
judge will be independent, and subject
to law and not to the orders. of a
superior. He must swear that he will at
ail times apply the law without fear or
favor and with justice and equity to all
persons of whatever creed, race or
political opinion they may be.

A defendant -was deprived of - all
guarantees for a fair trial. He could not

. inspect the files concerning his case nur.

did he receive a written charge spe-
cifying the facts and the evidence relied
upon by the public prosecutor nor was
he entitled to defense counsel except in
the most serious crimes punishable with
death or hard labor for life nor could
he demand that the court hear his
evidence. Thus he was unable to prepare
and to defend his case.

The new code has reinstated to the

--- Page 11 ---
full extent the rights of the defendant
as they existed prior to 1933.

The revised Codes of Criminal Proce-
dure and on the Constitution of Courts
will be given effect by Military Govern-
ment Law which will make their use
mandatory in all courts in the US Zone.
The Codes have now been printed as

part of Instructions to Judges No. 2 and
a copy will be issued, at the time. of
the promulgation of the Military Gov-
ernment Law, to every Judge, public
prosecutor and lawyer authorized to act
in our zone. The new procedure for the
civilized administration of criminal
justice will thus be inaugurated.

Military Government and the DISCCs

MILITARY GOVERNMENT - officers
all over the US Zone want to re-open
information services in their areas. "I
need a really local newspaper; someth-
ing in which Germans can talk to Ger-
mans.” ... "I've got a couple of
publishers in my town who want to
publish books.” ... "Why can‘t we get
the German cinemas open? As it is, the
Germans feel that the US occupation
disapproves of all cultural activities,
and I have no way of proving that this
is not so.”

Nearly every Military Government
detachment in the US area has approach-
ed the District Information Services
Control Commands (DISCCs) with
operations of this kind, which points
up the urgency of a problem already
well known to higher authorities. Mr.
Robert Patterson, Assistant Secretary of
War, in a press conference on 12 July
stated that it would not be too much
to say that information control could
further the interests and security of all
US forces, and should help materially
to shorten the period of occupation.

Supervision of information services in
th US Zone, including all newspaper,

publishing, radio, film, theater’ and
music activities, is exercised by the
Information Control Division of USFET,
headed by Brig. Gen. Robert A. McClure.
This Division has been charged with the
task of assisting in communicating Mil
Gov instructions to the German po-
pulation and generally promoting com-
pliance with the policies of Mil Gov
through its newspapers, publications
and broadcasts. It has also the respon-
sibility for seeing that the German in-
formation services are. de-Nazified and
reorganized so as to become media of
free expression and a force in the demo-
cratic reorientation of the German
people.

Two District Information Services
Control Commands’carry out the poli-
cies of the Division throughout the US
zone. The 6870 DISCC at Munich (APO
757), under Col. Bernard B. McMahon,
serves the Eastern Military District and
is being assigned to 3rd Army. The 6871
DISCC at Wiesbaden (APO 655), under
the command of Lt. Col. John Stanley;
serves the Western Military District,
including Bremen, and is being assigned
to 7th Army. A third Information Con-

--- Page 12 ---
trol Unit under Lt. Col. Frederick M.
Leonard serves the US District of Berlin.

The information control program re-
quires the closest liaison between Mil
Gov and Information Control officers.
A Mil Gov Detachment wishing to have
an announcement broadcast over the
radio or a notice inserted in an US-
published newspaper will find the DISCC
in the area glad to assist.

Mil Gov officers desiring to have
orchestras, cinemas, publications or
other information media begin activities
in his area should also get in touch
with a DISCC officer. He may find,
however, that the Information Control
operative has already begun investigat-
ing the situation and has not yet found
competent, trustworthy Germans. Even
more stringent de-Nazification mea-
sures apply to the information services
than to most other types of enterprise.

Military Government Law 191 (amen-
ded) prohibits the operation of all Ger-
man information services. Information
Control Regulation No. 1, which ap-
pears on the same poster as the law,
provides the machinery for gradually
reorganizing them through two proce-
dures: licensing and registration.

INCLUDES THEATRICALS

Licensing applies to publishers, film
producers, theatrical and concert pro-
ducers and, in general, persons who
are engaged in actually creating in-
formation material. Administration of
licensing is the responsibility of the
DISCCs. Only the person or persons
responsible for an enterprise receive a
license: in the case of a newspaper, the
publisher; in the case of a theater, the
producer or the "Intendant”, and so on.
These individuals are carefully investi-
gated and must fill out special appli-
cation forms giving full information

about the contemplated enterprise.
Investigation reports and applications
are examined at the DISCCs, together
with any, statements from the Mil Gov
detachments concerned and, if found to
be satisfactory, a formal license certifi-
cate is issued. The licensee is then re-
sponsible for ensuring that none of his
employees are Nazis and that his output
does not violate the policies of Informa-
tion Control and Mil Gov.

HAVE TARGET CITIES

DISCCs have already proceeded with
arrangements for licensing newspapers
in most large cities — known as
target cities — in the US zone. Licensed
papers are now appearing in Aachen
(now British Zone) and Frankfurt, and
others are almost ready to start public-
ation. Because of limited paper stocks
and other critical materials, the number
of bock, magazine and newspaper
publishers licensed initially will be small.
Nevertheless, Mil Gov detachments are
asked to forward to DISCCs requests
for license application from persons in
their area. These requests should be
accompanied by a completed Frage-
bogen, a full statement by the applicant
regarding his contemplated activity, and
any remarks the local MGO desires to
make. The more detailed the informa-
tion accompanying the request, the
better Information Control will be able
to judge the priority to be assigned the
case. The MGO should make clear to
persons whose requests he forwards
that they may not start activities until
they have filled in and returned to
DISCCs the special application blanks
and have received a formal license
certificate. \

Officers should be familiar with In-
formation Control Regulation No. 1
before forwarding requests for license

--- Page 13 ---
forms, so as to avoid wasting time on
cases not falling under information
control. DISCCs will be glad to advise on
border-line cases. Information Control
was recently surprised to receive a
license request from a woman who
wished to sell ice cream at fairs, and
another ‘requesting permission to
operate a pop-gun concession — types of
activity not covered by Mil Gov Law
191.

The licensing procedure provides the
machinery for re-establishing the most
important branches of the information
services with carefully investigated anti-
Nazis in key positions. As such, it is
one of the basic procedure of the
occupation program.

REGISTRATION REQUIRED

Those Germans who wish to engage
in information activities which do not
require a license must first register with
Mil Gov Detachments. The registration
procedure is outlined in Information
Control Regulation No. 1. Booksellers,
printers, theater and cinema owners or
operators, film processors and distri-
butors, phonograph-record distributors,
and several other categories must re-
gister on special Information Control
forms and fill
their local Military Government Detach-
ment before engaging in such activities.
Only those persons. responsible for
enterprises need register — employees
need not do so. The registrants receive
from Mil Gov a Record of Information

out a Fragebogen at-

10

_gistration Forms to the DISCCs.

Control Registration,’ showing that
they have complied with the law.

But this ’Record” does not mean that
the registrant has been approved by
the authorities. As specified in directives,
the Detachments send .a copy of all Re-
In- -
formation Control is then responsible
for closing down registrants who should
not be allowed, for political or security
reasons, to continue to operate. Since
the DISCCs have this responsibility, it
is essential that the forms be carefully
administered by the Detachments. Care
should be taken that only those persons
register who are required to do so by
Regulation No. 1. One detachment in a
large city registered persons, such as
publishers, who are subject to the licens-
ing procedure. This meant that
publishers in that city thought they had
an official statement from Mil Gov
enabling them to operate, in spite of
the fact that they had not been ade-
quately investigated. To avoid having
to unravel such mistakes, the DISCC.
should be consulted whenever there is
any doubt as to whether the licensing
or the registration procedure applies.

DISCC is set up to assist Mil Gov.
Closest liaison between the detachments
and the ‘DISCCs will increase the
efficiency of the DISCC_ mission.
Without liaison and cooperation. DISCC
may not be in a position to open up
information services in outlying areas
for some time to come.

--- Page 14 ---
De-Nazification is Your Job

AGAIN and again, the question is
posed: ”Just who is responsible for de-
Nazification?”

The answer is crystal clear. It is the
responsibility of every officer on a
Military Government Detachment to
ensure that Nazi and militaristic in-
fluences have been eliminated from all
those functions of German life which
are directly controlled or supervised by
the Military Government Detachment.

Two new USFET directives stress this
point. In these directives are set forth
the policies of the Military Governor
for the exclusion of undesirable ele-
ments from positions of importance,
either as policy makers, executives, or
personnel officers in German civil ad-
ministration, quasi-public and private
enterprises.

These directives, the first dated 7
July, the second 23 July, call upon Mili-
tary Government Detachments to oust
Nazis from such posts in civic, econ-
omic and labor organizations; in cor-
porations and other organizations in
which the German government or its
subdivisions had a major financial
interest; in important industrial, com-
mercial, agricultural and financial in-
stitutions.

In the field of education, both private
and parochial, not only must all policy-
making and executive posts be de-
Nazified, but every teacher must be
proven free of Nazi taint.

Only in the cases of specified Ger-
man activities which are supervised by
special control officers or using Army
services does the responsibility for de-
Nazification vary. In this respect, the

11

23 July directive states that the initial
responsibility for de-Nazification and
screening of certain German enterprises
and agencies rests with the supervising
officers of using service rather than
with Military Government Detachments.

This would apply, for example, to
transportation agencies that are super-
vised by Transportation Corps; to
industrial enterprises directed by pro-
duction control sections, or to German
publishing houses that are handled. by
Army information control units.

Military Government Detachments, of
course, are expected. to cooperate with
these other Army organizations and
make available to them Special Branch
machinery for vetting, but the decision
on removal or retention of personnel
remains with the supervising officer or
using Service:

It is up to the supervising officer or
the using Service in such circumstances
to follow the same de-Nazification pro-
cedure as laid down for use by Military
Government Detachments in the 7 July
directive.

RESPONSIBILITY EVIDENT

Over and beyond these sole except-
ions, the responsibility for de-Nazifica-
tion is plain. The Commanding Officer
of every Military Government Detach-
ment and each of his specialist officers
are explicitly charged with the task of
eliminatirig all vestiges of Nazism from
those spheres of German life under
them.

Theirs is the duty to screen all in-
cumbents or applicants for public office
or to important positions in quasi-
public and private enterprise controlled
by Military Government Detachments.

--- Page 15 ---
Theirs is the responsibility for render-
ing, decision on the retention or remov-
al of an office holder or the selection
for an appointment.

The relation of the CIC to the Mili-
tary Government Detachment is care-
fully specified in the 7 July directive.
While CIC clearance should be obtained
in every instance, the directive calls it
only one factor in the vetting process.

INVESTIGATE FRAGEBOGEN

CIC clearance, according to this
directive, does not relieve Military Gov-
ernment Officers of the requirement
that they themselves investigate Frage-
bogen submitted by incumbents and
prospective office-seekers, and them-
selves make the ruling on selection,
removal, or retention.

In functional fields, every Military
Government Technical Officer is respon-
sible for the de-Nazification of those
agencies under his control. On_ this
task by providing Special Branch
facilities for ’vetting’, it underlines the
policy that every Detachment Officer is
responsible for removal and exclusion
of undesirable elements in his sphere.

The General de-Nazification policy,
which Military Government Detach-
ments must apply in the U. S. Zone is as
follows:

”All members of the Nazi party who
have been more than nominal partici-
pants in its activities, all active sup-
porters of Nazism or militarism and
all other persons hostile to Allied pur-
poses will be removed and excluded
from public office and from positions
of importance in quasi-public and pri-
vate enterprises.”

In defining the members of the Nazi
party "who are more than nominal
participants”, the directive cites more
than 136 categories of organizations,

positions, honors and activities wherein
participation makes removal and ex-
clusion mandatory.

It emphasizes that persons who fall
within the mandatory removal and ex-
clusion categories are not to be ap-
pointed to, or retained in, public office
or in positions of importance in quasi- -
public and private enterprises because
of administrative necessity, convenience
or expediency.

The property of all persons removed
from positions under the terms of this
directive is to be blocked. Persons re-
moved from public office are not entit-
led to. the benefit of any pension or
other civil service rights except with
the consent of the Military Government
Detachment.

It is possible, the directive recognizes,
that the removal of persons by cate-
gories may result in individual injustices
since investigation may establish that
such a person, while falling within one
of these categories, was in fact only a
nominal Nazi.

NEEDS WRITTEN APPROVAL

The Military Government Officer
may submit such a situation to Hq,
USFET, for final- determination, but
until that Headquarters has given its
written approval of the appointment or
reinstatement of the man in question,

“ the Military Government Officer is

12

required to bar him from office.

The procedure in such an_ instance,
according to the directive, is:

*When such a person has been re-
moved from appointment to an essential
administrative or technical position for
which it is impossible to find a qualified
replacement of acceptable political
character, an application may be made
to this Headquarters (USFET) for his

--- Page 16 ---
appointment or reinstatement in accor-
dance with the provisions set forth. No
such person may be appointed or rein-
stated until this Headquarters has re-
gistered its approval in writing.”

Cases may also arise where the in-
cumbent or prospective office-seeker
was a former member of the Nazi party
but was ’not more than’ a nominal
paraticipant” and never held an impor-
tant position falling within the scope of
the barred class. Should the Military

’ Government Officer decide to appoint
or retain such a man,.he can do so, but
he is required to submit a report of his
action direct to Headquarters, USFET.

This report should include the appli-
cation of the office seeker, a copy of
the Fragebogen as revised 15 May 45, a
summary of the investigation conducted
and the results of checks made against
available civil service, police, party and
other records. It should also include a
statement from the Commanding Offi-
cer of the nearest CIC Detachment con-

cerning any security considerations in-
volved or any information obtainable
from Counter Intelligence sources.

The 7 July directive makes still
another strongpoint. De-Nazification is
not only a housecleaning job; it is a
house building job. It is up to Military
Government Officers to reconstruct
German life along Democratic lines.

The selection of persons for key
positions, with adequate educational
background, practical experience and
freedom from Nazi and German. mili-
taristic contaminations, collaboration
and influence is of prime importance,
the directive states. A 1A priority is its
rating.

Every Military Government Officer is,
therefore, expected to make a diligent
search throughout his area for person-
nel of competence and democratic
philosophy. Upon the success of his
quest depend the peace of the world
and the future vigor of democracy.

The Combined Displaced Persons Executive

MORE so perhaps than any other
Military Government activity organized
under SHAEF, the displaced persons
program is completely international in
character. Dealing as it does with the
millions of people of every conceivable
nationality who found themselves
hundreds of miles from their home-
lands on V-E Day, the Displaced Per-
sons organization could not revert to
unilateral control upon the dissolution
of SHAEF.

It was decided that the international
and inter-zonal character of repatriat-

13

ing displaced persons from Germany
required an integrated British, Ameri-
can and French agency to continue the
program. To meet this requirement’ a
Combined Displaced Persons Executive
was established ‘on the eve of SHAEF’s
break-up, to carry on for three months
the work of repatriating the millions ~
remaining to be sent home from Ger-
many. The new CDPX was formed from
the existing integrated, British, Ameri-
can and French military staff and
UNRRA administrative personnel of. the
Displaced Persons Branch, G-5, SHAEF.

--- Page 17 ---
It. will continue to function in the same
offices in the I. G. Farben Building in
Frankfurt.

The heads of the new combined agen-
cy, each with authority to act for his
respective zone, are: Brigadier General
Stanley R. Mickelsen, former chief of
the Displaced Persons Branch, G-5,
SHAEF, acting for the American zone;
Brigadier A. G. Kenchington, Chief of
the Prisoners of War and Displaced
Persons Division, British Element, Al-
lied Control. Council, acting for the
British Zone; and Brigadier General
Roger Kaeppelin, Chief of the Displaced
Persons Branch, French Element, Allied
Conirol Council, acting for the French
Zone.

Brigadier Kenchington has appointed
Brigadier Arthur Guy Salisbury-Jones,
former Deputy Chief of the G-5 Dis-
placed Persons Branch, his deputy and
Dermanent representative on CDPX.
Brigadier-General Kaeppelin has no-
minated Colonel R. A. Lebon his de-
puty and permanent French repre-
sentative.

HAS MANY ADVANTAGES

The Combined Displaced Persons Exe-
cutive has many operational advantages.
Its creation renders unnecessary any
break in the policy or operational con-
tinuity so successfully begun and exe-
cuted under SHAEF authority. SHAEF
agreements governing Allied and Soviet
repatriation representatives have been
continued in force without interruption.
Equitable apportionment of transport
for repatriation movements has gone
steadily ahead without re-negotiation
or confusion. Statistical records and
reports covering the former SHAEF
area are still prepared, making possible
integrated planning of future operations.
Correspondence and policy files are
maintained on an efficient centralized

14

basis. Negotiations with Allied and neu- -
tral governments and with other Thea-
ter Commanders are facilitated. CDPX,
while continuing’ to implement existing
SHAEF directives, will seek guidance
on new policy from the commanders
of the respective national zones.

TO ASSIST UNRRA

With a combined command, CDPX
is greatly-facilitated in arranging for a
maximum transfer of operations to
UNRRA, contemplated for 1 October
1945. Under the direction of Edward E.
Rhatigan, Deputy Director-General of
UNRRA’s European Regional Office,
additional UNRRA staff personnel has
been integrated with CDPX. The. new
combined agency assists UNRRA in
administering, training, and equipping
staff personnel and Assembly Center
teams. It coordinates with UNRRA in
preparing for the ultimate transfer to
UNRRA and the voluntary societies it
administers. ; ,

To assist the military and ultimately
UNRRA in the long-term assignment of
resettling stateless and non-repatriable
displaced persons, Patrick Murphy Ma-
lin, Vice-Director of the Intergovern-
mental Committee on Refugees, is
working with CDPX. The Intergovern-
mental Committee on Refugees will
negotiate with governments willing to
grant citizenship and new homes to
stateless and non-repatriables at present
in Germany. This detailed . work, in-
volving careful individual consideration,
must, however. await the completion
of the mass repatriation operations.

Besides the British, American and
French military staffs and UNRRA ad-
ministrative personnel there .are also .
attached to CDPX transportation re-
presentatives of the respective zones,
and Chief Allied Liaison Officers for
Repatriation and their staffs, represent-

--- Page 18 ---
ing twelve countries. Thus, by _inte-
grating all elements vitally concerned
in the displaced persons program in to
the Combined Displaced Persons Exe-

cutive, operational continuity and offi-
ciency is assured, as well as a smooth
transition. to the assumption of maxi-
mum responsibility by UNRRA.

Recovery and Protection of Art Treasures

AFTER the occupation of Germany,
it was discovered that there had been an
almost complete displacement of works
of art. The contents of museums,
churches, libraries and archives had
been hastily evacuated to many hund-
reds of widely scattered repositories.
Castles, mines, country houses, brew-
eries, sawmills and. garages were used
to house priceless art objects or irre-
placeable documents. The majority of
these repositories are in the US Zone
of occupation. The result is that roughly

‘one fifth of the art treasures of the

western world are in the technical
custody of a score of US Monuments,
Fine Arts and Archives officers.

The immediate responsibility of these
officers during the post-hostilities phase
is to inspect as many repositories as
possible and place them under military
guard or in the custody of responsible
civilians.

Central collecting points for works
of art are being established for the pur-
pose of concentrating the holdings of
certain of these repositories. Each col-
lecting point is in charge of an officer
who was a trained museum man in
civilian life. It is his task to secure a
staff of German art historians and to
direct and supervise the work of caring
for and inventorying the collections.

’ Museum collections in some reposi-
tories are being evacuated to central

15

collecting points, because they are
poorly housed or inadequately guarded.
Being part of the cultural heritage of
the entire world, these art treasures
demand every consideration and techni-
cal care. Their preservation is desirable
in order to prevent the intellectual and
spiritual starvation of Germany a state
of mind which engenders doctrines of
militarism and hatred.

REPOSITORIES EVACUATED

Other repositories are being eva-
cuated because they are suspected of
containing Nazi loot. The Nazis carried
out their looting operations on an enor-
mous but throughly systematic scale.
Approximately eighty per cent of the
looting of art objects from German oc-
cupied territory was conducted by an or-
ganization known as the Einsatzstab Ro-
senberg (Task Force Rosenberg). Ein-
satzstab Rosenberg, consisting of art ex-
perts, packers, shippers, restorers, photo-
graphers and cataloguers, operated in
both Eastern and Western Europe. In
the West, it confined its activities lar-
gely to the seizure of privately owned
art collections. In the East, however, its
operatives swarmed like locusts, sweep-
ing clean the museums, churches, mon-
asteries and libraries of Poland and
Russia. The resultant quantity of loot
in the US Zone is overwhelming and
can be estimated only in the hundreds
of thousands of objects.

--- Page 19 ---
It is the task of the Specialist Officers
to concentrate this vast amount of ma-
terial into collecting points where it
can be examined, inventoried and pre-
pared for eventual restitution. In the
case of loot gathered by the Einsatzstab
Rosenberg, this enormous task has been
made somewhat easier by the systematic
methods employed by that organization.
Its loot was concentratéd in half a dozen
repositories. Careful records were kept
of its operations, and files of photo-
‘graphs ‘were made of the objects taken.
Both the records and the repositories
are in US hands, making the identifica-
tion and ownership of the objects
relatively easy to establish.

The physical difficulties of evacuating
the Rosenberg repositories are consider-
able, however. They are in remote
places, and access to them is often a
problem. Distant mountain castles or
ancient salt mines were favored storage
places. Trucks will have to be procured,
packing materials improvised, handlers,
packers, and drivers must be trained for
the delicate task of moving some of the
world's greatest art treasures. From one
mine alone, over one hundred truck-
loads of objects have already been
evacuated, and it is estimated that two
thirds of the holdings are still to be
moved.

PRESENT DIFFICULTIES

The looted objects that were taken
by organizations or individuals other
than the Einsatzstab Rosenberg present
difficulties of another sort. Few or no
records of these exist. They may be
found in any one of the hundreds of
repositories in the US Zone. Consequent-
ly, each repository must be regarded
with suspicion by the MFA & A Officer
and its contents carefully checked. The
scale of this operation can, perhaps, be

16

emphasized by the fact that in one salt
mine alone, over.two hundred different
collections are stored. :

Until MFA & A Officers can make
every effort to protect repositories
located in their areas. In some places,
virtually no protection exists, as is
witnessed by a report received from
Detachment EIF3, Munich:

NO PROTECTION GUARANTEES

“It is virtually impossible to grant
protection by using ’Off Limits’ signs.
Even when guards are employed, there
is no guarantee against trespass or
pilfering.. For example, several com-
plaints have been lodged against the
occupation of Nymphenburg Castle and
the Amalienburg; as soon as remedial
action is taken, some new organization
enters the premises. Unless © strict
adherence to USFET policy concerning
the official protection of monuments in
Germany can be achieved, there is no
question that irreparable damage to
centuries-old chateaux, convents and
other immovable monuments will result.
It is superfluous to remark that the loss
affects not one nation merely; it takes
from the world a synthesis of culture
that can not be replaced.”

All matters of protection of . indi-
genous monuments, the safeguarding
and curatorship of German and. other
depots are handled, as far as possible,
through Regierungsbezirke Monuments
Officers and German art organizations.
Instances of negligence, damage and
lack of security continue to be reported
by both Mil Gov Detachments and Ger-
man sources. Observation indicates,”
reports E1F3, "that local Mil Gov De-
tachments fail to take adequate action
under current directives, and that Ger-
man authorized officials are hampered
by lack of cooperation.”

--- Page 20 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

Timidity Noticed

THERE are numerous evidences that
point-to a lack of confidence on the
part of the population in their newly
acquired right of free speech. A hold-
over fear or Gestapo Complex” is not
only lingering — which is to be exected
— but reviving somewhat. This is speci-
fically the case in localities where in-
fluential Nazis in non-arrest categories,
having been left comparatively un-
touched, are regaining their confidence
and seeking to prolong their psycho-
logical dominance over the average
German, who is still timid and hesitant
in the overt expression of anti-Nazism.

One aspect of this situation and a
sound cure therefor are well analyzed
in the following excerpt from’an article
entitled "Eradicating the Nazi Spirit”,
which appeared recently in a Mil Gov-
controlled newspaper in. the French
Zone.

"The M Police Department writes us
that anyone today who has an oppor-
tunity of coming into close contact with
the population of villages and towns
realizes immediately that many people
are complaining that the same officials
as formerly are still in authority and
are exercising their functions as if
nothing had occurred.

Today there are actually many mu-
nicipal officials who were the leading
spirits of Nazism and who naively
suppose that the business of rooting out
Nazism and Party members is over and
done with. Responsibility for this state

Among Anti-Nazis

17

of affairs lies mainly. with the very ele-
ments of the population who have pro-
fessed their anti-Nazi viewpoint... Very
frequently people are heard whispering:
‘The fear of Nazi big-shots - is - still
among the population’. This must be
changed. No longer the cowardly
whisper; the overt, free utterance must
again prevail. Complaints and jibes will”
not intimidate these Nazi elements; only
by an attitude of complete sincerity and
inflexible determination will these. in-
tolerable conditions be rectified. It is in
the interest of each individual, as well
as that of the entire German people, to
co-operate as vigorously and com-
pletely as possible in the extirpation of
the Nazi spirit.”

Latest Rumor Crop

WHILE the process of licensing con-
trolled German news media is still in its
infancy, rumor-bouncing continues to
be the favorite German indoor: and
outdoor sport. Indubitably, quite a few
of the rumors or rumor series: are
spawned by Nazis who can do nothing
more subversive for the present. Their
intent, it can be assumed, is to delay
orderly progress toward stability by
engendering disquiet and thus keeping
the populace confused in its reaction
to occupational rule. The effect. for-
tunately, usually evaporates with the
rumor, and the problems of every-day
existence which face the average Ger-
man give him plenty of solid food for

--- Page 21 ---
mental preoccupation. Other rumors, to
which the Nazi, of course, may give
added impetus once they have started,
are certainly purely popular distortions
and exaggerations which grow more
fantastic as they carom from section to
section. Thus, the news of a Saturday-
night brawl between two soldiers of
different nationalities might echo in a
locality fifty or one hundred miles
distant the following Thursday as an
open armed clash between troops of
both nations.

Rumors like the one just suggested
belong to what is perhaps the most
favored category, that attempting to
portray inter-Allied dissensions as acute.
As time has discredited one after
another of these stories, especially those
about imminent clashes between Allied
and Russian forces, their number has
been reduced, but new ones still make
the rounds. Extreme examples of this
type are: Townsfolk in Kassel spreading
the story, during the time of interzonal
troop movements, that the Allied public-
address system was announcing specific
black-out regulations; a report (uncon-
firmed) of rumors circulating in North
Central Germany that bombs had al-
ready fallen on a town not far from
Magdeburg; rumors_that PWs about to
be discharged have been offered ‘an
opportunity to enlist in the Anglo-
American armies to fight Russia, and
that German pilots are being trained to
fly in Allied aircraft for action against
Russia.

The vital subject of food has produced

‘still weirder tales. Thus, rumors of food:

surpluses in the Russian zone have given
way to tales of widespread famine; in
the British and US zones rumors of
wholesale destruction of food by Mil
Gov authorities have been encountered

18

in some localities, while in others people
“understood” that such . luxuries as
coffee, cocoa, etc, were to be distri- -
buted. Before the transfer of Stuttgart
from French to US control, it was ru-
mored that food would be distributed
in large quantities as soon as the French
had left. ~~

The category of rumors that seems
to stem from a guilty conscience, as
well as Goebbels‘ teachings, involves
German concern with ”inhuman” inten-
tions: on the part of the Allies to
disturb their private lives: No cigarettes
or alcohol are to be distributed for the
next ten years; Mil Gov bulletin boards
have posted. regulations forbidding
marriages for ten years, and, apparently
forseeing that this would not restrain
the efforts of German bachelors,
another rumor has it that reproduction
by Germans is forbidden.

Passing of Non-Fraternization

A MIL GOV detachment: in the
Southern section of the Western Mili-
tary District briefly analyzes German
reaction in its district to the recent
easing of the non-fraternization policy
as follows:

The lifting of the ban on fraterniza-
tion ‘occasioned a variety of comments.
As long as the ban was in force, the
German public regarded it as a military
measure and thought that it was wiser
to withhold all expressions of opinion.
Now they are inquiring into the reasons
which actuated the initiation of such a
policy and especially into the reasons
which led to its recission two months
after the close of the campaign. Some
thought that the anti-fraternization
policy was an implicit admission of the

--- Page 22 ---
possible ’justice’ of the German cause,
inasmuch as it allegedly attempted to
immunize the troops from German in-
fluence. They pointed to the admonition
of the radio announcers who warned the
troops against fraternizing with Ger-
mans if they wished to avert another
' war. Others imputed to the  anti-
fraternization policy an effort to pre-
pare the Allied, especially the American,
soldier psychologically for. dealing
brutally with the German civilian popu-
lation. Still others viewed the lifting of
the ban as a conciliatory gesture
towards the civilian population and as
a move in the direction of a new policy
of dividing between guilty and innocent
Germans. Most people, however, read
little high policy into the lifting of the

19

ban, and regarded it as an ex post-facto
sanction of a situation which had got
out of control.”

Although the effect of the ban-lifting
on the association of soldiers with the
younger female population was imme: ’
diate and marked, it is doubtful if the
mature generation ‘of Germans have
benefitted to any appreciable degree,
no matter what their expectations may
have been. It can be presumed, in any
case, that the recent thorough house
check-up by search squads in the US
zone has thoroughly tempered the
hopes they may have entertained that
the modification of the non-fraterniza-
tion policy would bring -with it liberal
hand-outs in the form of GI rations,
cigarettes and foodstuffs.

--- Page 23 ---
LESSONS FROM OPERATIONS

Liaison with Tactical Troops

*DURING the initial month of opera-
tions, our relationship with tactical
troops was sometimes strained, some-
times cordial. Probably the ‘greatest
handicap we have had is the constant
turnover. of tactical commanders. With
the resumption of responsibility by
Military Government, the tactical out-
fits have been most cooperative and
are now placing at the disposal of each
detachment one liaison officer of com-
pany grade. This was done at our sug-
gestion and since its inception our
relationships with tactical troops have
been excellent.” — Lt. Col. David L.

Decreasing Juvenile Crime
JUVENILE crime is kept at a mini-
mum in Kaiserslautern by employing
adolescents as farm workers and rubble
cleaners pending the re-opening of
public schools.

A Bad Exchange

ALTHOUGH no-serious crime problem
exists in Kaiserslautern, prostitution is
increasing. Investigation by the Public
Health Department indicates that this
is due not so much to professionalism
as to a desire on the part of the women
to exchange soap, cigarettes and food
with the troops.

Food For Needy ;
FOOD collection for the Munich
needy, conducted at the suggestion of
a Munich priest in nearby villages, has

20

been remarkably successful. Peasants
gave potatoes, eggs, meat and flour in
spite of their own low food supply.

Only Essential Phones Authorized

AUTHORITIES in Munich estimate
that 1,200 telephones are now in use.
Only telephones regarded as essential
to business are being authorized.

Violation of Censorship Regulations

VIOLATION of Army censorship regu-
lations by Military Government poses a
serious problem. Recently an MGO in
charge of a detachment wrote. directly
to the US affiliate of a German firm in
his area, giving information of steps .
taken in connection with property-con-
trol policy. He also consented to post,
through APO channels, a letter written
by the local head of the firm to its main
office in the United States. The letter,
containing information of value to the
American concern, was picked up by
the base censor during his spot-check. -

Investigation by an Inspector General
disclosed a violation of Army censorship
regulations (FM 30—28). Since the
MGO had acted innocently, leniency
was shown and disciplinary action was
limited to a reprimand by his Com-
manding Officer. However, any future
violations of this nature will be treated
with much greater severity.

Town Crier System Works

A TOWN crier system has been estab-
lished in Cham to supplement existing

--- Page 24 ---
communications facilities. The city has
been divided into 39 districts with a
separate crier detailed for each. Public
notices can be promulgated throughout
the entire city within one hour.

Immunization for all Children

AN immunzation program to include
all children has been instituted in Frank-
furt and will continue at intervals until
1 September 1945, at dispensaries loca-
ted in all sections of the city. The pro-
gram is being publicized by rosters
announcing the schedule. Adequate
supplies of vaccine are available, reports
the City Health Department, and all
innoculations will be free of charge.

Goods Returned to Civilians

WITH approximately 19,000 people on
relief in Frankfurt, arrangements have
been made with USFET to move
clothing, food stores and other supplies
from houses in the restricted area to a
central repository where they will be
distributed to their former owners.

21

Use of Ex-Combat Officers

"UNIVERSALLY the comment of MGOs
concerning officers from the combat
troops in the grade of lieutenant or
captain, recently assigned to Military
Government after a short course of
training, has been extremely favorable.
They are keen, alert, vigorous’ and
interested, and not confused by the
mass of often conflicting directives
issued during the pre-surrender phase
by various echelons of tactical troops.
Accustomed to following directives and
to the carrying out of orders to the
letter, these officers conscientiously
study their instructions and apply them
strictly.” — Col. Henry Parkman. Jr., in
a comment following a recent USFET
inspection tour.

The. Anti-Nazis fill the Bill

THE E2C1 policy of appointing Buer-
germeisters who have never been
NSDAP party members has been firmly
adhered to by all detachments in the
Bremen Enclave. Ardent anti-Nazis have
invaribly replaced party members ap-
pointed by earlier Mil Gov Officers of

‘tactical units.

--- Page 25 ---
PRESS COMMENTS.

The Big Three Meeting at Potsdam

The news spotlight has currently been
focussed on the Big Three meeting at
Potsdam, where policies for Allied con-
trol of Germany were being studied and
the blueprints drawn for a new Europe.
Press comments evidence a full realiza-
tion of the importance of the con-
ference, which, in the words of an edi-
‘torial in the Los Angeles Times, July
17, will provide in large part the ans-
wer to the question whether the night-
mare which the world has experienced
in the last few years is to be but a
prelude to another and more ghastly

_world conflict.” Achievement of a real
joint policy at Potsdam, commented the
Manchester Guardian on July 16, ne-
cessarily involves the creation of a
long-term plan which will determine
the aims of occupation, the latitude to
be given for political self-development,
and the system by which reparations
are to be made.”

Education

Under the head ”Germans Plan Higher
Education,” the New York Herald Trib-
une, Paris edition, ran a lengthy story
on July 19, in which it announced that
a group of 29 German scholars and
‘Scientists have established 4 committee
for the rejuvenation of German higher
education.” Formed after the Russian
occupation of Berlin, the committee was
largely organized by Dr. Friedrich Glum,
who for 20 years had been the director-
general of the organization which co-

22

ordinated German research in a score
of fields. Although the statement of the
committee’s aims has not yet been made
public in Germany, Dr. Glum explained
that he had released the information to
the Herald Tribune because he wanted
the American public to know that there
are. leaders in German science and
learning who kept themselves apart
from Nazism and who are now anxious
to take leading part in creating de-
mocratic institutions of higher learning
in Germany.

Berlin Agreement

The agreement between the United
States, Britian, Russia-and France for
the government of Berlin is hailed by
the press generally as a demonstratior.
of the ability of the Allies to cooperate
successfully in solving the problems oj
postwar control of Germany. Berlin
can be the test-tube in which forms of
Allied cooperation in Germany can be
tried out and the lessons thus learned
can be applied to the country as a
whole,” commented the Washington

Post on July 14, adding that if the Ber-
lin experiment is successful, joint con-

trol of Germany will be greatly facilit-
ated.

The St. Louis Post-Despatch, in similar
vein, pointed out on July 11 that with
the amicable settlement ‘of the knotty
problem of how Berlin is to be fed and
governed, "another issue which the
alarmist saw as a dangerous split

--- Page 26 ---
between Russia and the Western Allies
falls flat on its face.” The Post-Dispatch
pointed out that so many alarms have
proved false, and so many different
agreements have been reached, as to
encourage hopes that all inter-Allied
problems ultimately will be solved.

Our Job in Germany

Taking sharp issue with those who
argue that our job in Germany is
primarily one of reconstruction, Edgar
Ansel Mowrer, in the Paris Post of
July 19, declares that our garrisons in

, Germany are there "simply to keep the
Germans stewing in the juice they
concocted.” Warning that the Germans
won't like this, and that the Germans
will grovel and pretend to repent in an
effort to avoid retribution, he cautions
Americans against beginning to feel
sorry for such repentant. murderers,
and succumbing to their blandishments.

“It would be absolutely deadly if as a

_ people we fell twice into the same Teu-
tonic trap,” Mowrer declared. The Lon-
don Times carried the statement of
Foreign Economic Administrator Leo
T. Crowley, which pointed out that the
Allies must be prepared for a long-term
occupation of Germany which should
‘take precedence over all other policies
for the treatment of the country, the
control measures to cover not only the
implements of war, but the whole
economic basis for war. "This should

_ be developed and understood as a

measure of security and not as measure
of punishment and retribution,” Crow-
ley stated, adding that otherwise Ger-
man industry -would be better prepared
in five years to wage war than it was
in 1939.

23

Coal

With winter

drawing nearer, coal
Prospects are attracting increasing
attention. A Washington dispatch to

the New York Herald Tribune on July
21, reported .an. announcement by the
War Department that it will return to
Europe during the next six weeks 2,605
German prisoners of war, with pre-
vious experience as coal miners, to help
alleviate the critical coal shortage in
the devastated countries of. Europe. An
article in the July 24 issue of the Paris
edition of the same paper stated that
exportable coal from Germany, accord-
ing to foreign fuel experts, will fall far
short of the goal of -2,000,000 tons by
January 1. As a result, it was explained,
France will find her share less than the
40 per cent, or 800,000 tons, which it
had been hoped would. arrive before
freezing weather sets in. International
experts, the article added, had earlier
set 10,000,000 tons as the German coal
production goal by January 1, of which
2,000,000 tons was to be earmarked for
export to the liberated countries of
Northwest Europe.

German Economy

The London Economist, in its issue
of July 14, directed attention to the fact
that information about the state of
German economy is. still extremely
scarce and contradictory. Conceding
that local MGOs as a rule are fairly
well informed about economic condit-
ions in their respective areas, the British
weekly declared that. ’no coherent
overall picture of the situation seems to
exist as yet at the higher levels of
Military Government and at the Central
Economic Control Agencies.” Such in-

--- Page 27 ---
formation as is presently available, it

charged, is kept secret by the military -

authorities ’with a jealousy worthy of
much more intimate topics.” By way
of illustration, it cited the refusal of the
head of an economic division at an
Army Group Headquarters to release
the official estimates of the economic
resources of the various occupation
zones on the ground that they are part
of a classified document. ’Are such
statistics kept secret in order to keep
the enemy guessing?” the Economist
asked. ’And if so, who is the enemy?
Or are they perhaps guarded as com-
mercial secrets?”

Public Safety

A Reuter’s despatch to the London
Daily Telegraph on July 17 revealed
plans of the American occupation auth-
orities to carry out a gigantic finger-
printing job, as part of the de-Nazi-
fication program. In the US Zone, it is
planned to fingerprint every German
who is a suspected criminal. This in-
cludes all persons with any connection
with the Nazi party, officers and non-
commissioned officers of the German
armed forces, in addition to all persons
within the mandatory arrest categories
and persons arrested for security reas-
ons. The specifications laid down will
result, it is estimated, in the finger-
printing of approximately 3,000,000
persons within the US Zone,

De - Nazification

Announcement that ”de-nazified” po-
litical activities will be encouraged in
the US Zone has been well received in
the American press. The Philadelphia

24

Inquirer, on July 19, hailed as ”ass-
uring,” the recent disclosure by Brig-
adier General Clarence L. Adcock, As-
sistent Chief of Staff, G—5 USFET
that Germans will be encouraged to
resume such activities in the near future.
“All possible measures ought to be -
taken to hurry establishment— of self-
government in occupied areas, with the
Allied forces acting in the role of
guardians or trustees,” the Inquirer
declared. ”Resumption of political ac-
tivity is part of the ’road back’ for the
Germans.”

From Moscow, the Red Star inter-
national review by Ermashev suggested
that the policy of absolute eradication
of fascism must be implemented by the
Allied authorities within Germany. This
means, the Soviet broadcast explained,
the acceptance for Allied collaboration
*not of those sections of the German
population who were the inspirers and
the main social basis for Hitlerism, but
the anti-Fascist forces of Germany.”

Occupational Troubles

Commenting for the Columbia Broad-
casting System from Paris, Charles
Collingwood pointed out that we are
having our troubles in occupying Ger-
many, citing the concealment of weap-
ons, and an increase in hostile acts
against Allied troops. ”There is still the
problem of displaced persons, foreign
workers and prisoners who have not yet
been sent home,” he continued. ’Some
of these people have been organized

‘into gangs and are taking their own

vengeance on the Germans. In the last
six weeks (prior to July 2), the British
have recorded some 100 murders, 60
cases of rape, 200 cases of robbery with

--- Page 28 ---
violence, and 1,000 instances of looting
by displaced persons. But we have made
great strides in getting the displaced
persons replaced; 3,200,000 have been
sent back to their countries, and only
2,500,000 wait to be repatriated. It is
a terrific job, but things will be much
simpler when they are all back.” Writ-
ing from the British Zone, the military
correspondent for the London Times
said that he had been much impressed
by the enthusiasm displayed for their
difficult task by those connected with
Military Government.” They have col-
lected and marshalled effectively a great
quantity of statistics. They know exactly
where they are, though they cannot
know where they will be in six months,
because that depends to some extent on
events and decisions outside.”

Treatment of Jews

An Associated Press despatch from
London dated July 22 carried an an-
nouncement by the World Jewish Con-
ference which asserted that Jewish
‘victims of Nazi persecution are being
treated "with callous and shameful
neglect by their new masters, the Allied
military control authorities in occupied
Germany.” The Congress went on to
say that the condition of Jews under
Allied control is the same as before,
except that they are no longer subject
to torture and murder.”

25

Complaints from Austria
and Bavaria

Military Government appointments in
Bavaria and Austria have drawn crit-
icism from some commentators. In the
Paris Post of July 21, the -columnist
Samuel Grafton said that Europeans
must be coming to the conclusion that
the Americans are wonderful organ-
izers of things but poor organizers of
people. His criticism was based on a
news report Austria that a certain Mil-
itary Government official was.”seriously
annoyed” because of efforts by local
Austrian anti-Nazis to help Americans
in the campaign to eradicate Nazism.
In an article in the Nation, July 15,
entitled "AMG Fumbles the Ball,” Philip
Jordan declared that Bavarians and
Austrians "resent with much. overt bit-
terness the. AMG‘ retention of .former
active members of the Nazi Party in
positions of authority and simul-
taneously they are beginning to wonder
whether perhaps they were not better
off under the rule of the Nazis.”

“In most places,” he charged, ”the
AMG is no more than the machinery
for forbidding people.-to take action
rather than for guiding them toward
more healthful political methods. than
they have known for many years.”

--- Page 29 ---
QUERIES

EACH week, under this co-
lumn heading, typical problems
received through channels by
Hq USFET Branches, will be
considered by specialist officers.
Official reply will be transmitted
through channels and summaries
thereof will appear in this
section.

Finance

Q. Heidelberg University has been
closed pursuant to the order of Military
Government concerning: closing instit-
utions of education and learning, subject
to future directions on re-opening.

A. Under Mil Gov Law 52, Article IV,
institutions and organizations enumer-
ated in Articles I and II of that law are

~ permitted to engage in transactions
ordinarily incidental to the conduct of
business, but General Order No. 1 under
Mil-Gov Law 52 withdraws the privi-
leges of Article IV from organizations
closed or suspended by Mil Gov. Hence,
the University can not carry on its
normal functions. However, under Ar-
ticle III of Mil Gov Law 52, the obli-

gation is imposed upon the custodian

of property blocked under that law to
preserve, maintain, and safe guard it.
Consequently, since no General Order
releases such custodians from the obli-
gation imposed:on them by Article III
of Mil Gov Law 52, such custodians
continue to have the responsibility for
the proper preservation of the property.
Funds necessary to .pay salaries of
custodians for safeguarding and clean-
ing property, plus such sums as may be
needed to make the minimum essential
repairs to preserve the property from
deterioration due to weather, may be
made out of the blocked funds of the
University. Mil Gov Finance officers in
the area in which the property is loc-
ated (in co-ordination with the Property
‘Control Officers, if -the property has

26

been taken into control by the latter)
must first approve, in writing, the sums
requested, and authorize the unblocking
of the bank account to the extent
of the funds of the University for the
payment of its administrative or edu-
cational staff. .

Monuments,
Fine Arts and Archives

_Q. How may MFA & A be protected
from destruction or looting, since it
has already been discovered that Off
Limits” Signs are not observed and
Security Guards themselves turn out to
be dishonest and destructive? :

A. Where it is impracticable to move
the museum, both ”Off Limits” signs
and Security Guards should be posted.
However, the building should be locked
and the guards prevented from enter-
ing. In addition, a civilian custodian
should be installed and made directly
responsible to Mil Gov and_ civilian
authorities to see that no unauthorized
personnel gain admittance. Where small
movable collections are concerned, the

objects of art should be transferred to

central locations under the jurisdiction
of the Regional or Regierungsbezirk
MFA & Officer.

Control of Requisitioning

Q. How can Mil Gov Detachments
control indiscriminate and unauthorized
requisition by other military organiz-

_ ations?

A. (Suggested procedure used by a
British Detachment): By posting signs
throughout the Landkreis stating that
all requisitions of civilian property and
services by military personnel must be
cleared through the Mil Gov Detach-
ment.

--- Page 30 ---
PERSONAL DATA

Promotions

TO FIRST SGT

T/Sgt Alvin E. Hathaway, Hq Co, 2nd
ECAR

TO MASTER SERGEANT
T/Sgt Robert E. Andreasen, G—5, USFET

TO TECHNICAL SERGEANT

S/Sgt Kenneth B. Sayres, Hq, ECAD
S/Sgt Russell F. Wadsworth, Hq, ECAD
S/Sgt William W. Murch, Hq, ECAD
S/Sgt Henry E. Klachkin, E1C2

S/Sgt Herbert C. W. Rockwell, F1D2
S/Sgt Seldon P. Whitton, H1G2

TO STAFF SERGEANT

Sgt Keith, H. Thomson, Hq Co, 2nd
ECAR

Sgt Harold Weiss, FIE2

Sgt William G. Smith, 11D2

Tec 4 Stuart A. Wolf, I5H2

Tec 4 Allan J. Gately, 111G2

Sgt Robert F. Davison, I5G2

Sgt William H. Johnson, Hq &Sv Co

Sgt William W. Rosenblum, H1D2

Sgt Harry E. Smith, E1C2

Sgt Edward L. Busani, 17B2

Sgt Edwin A. Weavers, Hq, ECAD

T/4 Richard H. Drevers, G—5, USFET

T/4 Charles T. Grasse, Hq, ECAD

TO TECHNICAN THIRD GRADE
Sgt Judd W. Lewis, Jr., Hq, ECAD

TO TECHNICAN FOURTH GRADE

T/5 David J. Bangert, G—5, USFET
T/5 Robert A. Meagher, G—5, USFET
T/5 Thomas Freeborn, Hq, ECAD

T/5 Ernest H. Kolln, Hq, ECAD

T/5 Thomas W. Tate, Hq, ECAD

TO CORPORAL

Pfc Carlos E. Condon, Hq Co, 2nd
ECAR

Pfc William H. Whitney, E1C2

Pfc Deane W. Brown, E1D2

Pfc Waiter W. Shrider, ELE2

Pfc Henry Eisig E1G2

Pfe Sid Kravitz, F1C2 .
Pfc Mortimor F. Zimmerman, F1C2
Pfc William B. Erb, F1D2

Pfc Isidore Cohen, F1G2

Pfc Robert E. Diekman, F1G2

Pfc Doswell P. Brown Jr., F2G2
Pfc Gerald H. Atwell, F2G2

Pfc Benjamin F, Reagan, G1B2

Pfc Tommy H. Presley, G1H2

Pfc Ralph H. Sutton, G1E2

Pfc Raymond A. Frank, H1A2

Pfc Israel Josephsberg, H3D2

Pfc Andrew Choselka, H1F2

Pfc William Cohen, H1G2

Pfc Robert B. Ackerman, H5H2
Pfc Fred W. Baumgartner, H3H2
Pfe Philip Herzog, H6H2

TO TECHNICAN FIFTH GRADE

Pfc Dorsey B. Davis, Hq, ECAD

Pfc Archie W. Muckenfuss, Hq, ECAD

Pfc Ernest L. Rodgers, Hq, ECAD

Pfc Frederick W. Poppeck, Jr. Ha,
ECAD

Pfc Jack E. Beatty, G—5, USFET

Pfe Paul R. Belt, G—5, USFET

Pfc Major C. Cheatham, G—5, USFET

Pfc Charles J. Crowley, G—5, USFET

Pfe Alfred K. Dilley, G—5, USFET

Pfc Demp P. Myers, G—5, USFET

Pfe John J. Dye, G—5, USFET

Pfc Joseph F. Clingenpeel, G—5, USFET

Pfc Donald. A. Thriffley, G—5, USFET

Pfc Louis J. Mikolajewski, Hq Co, 3rd
ECAR

Pfc Salvatore, J. Titolo, Hq Co, 3rd
ECAR

Pfc Joseph H. Nastaga, Hq Co, 3rd
ECAR :

Pfc James B. Cox, Hq Co, 3rd ECAR

Pfe John W. Solecki, Hq Co, 3rd ECAR

Pfc James E. Wedel, Hq Co, 3rd ECAR

Pfc Joseph A. Labonets, Hq Co, 3rd
ECAR

Pfc Clarence T. Holman, Hq Co, 3rd
ECAR

Pfc Orson F. Mohr, Hq Co, 3rd ECAR

--- Page 31 ---
Pfc Herman A. Howes, 3rd
ECAR

Pfc Melvin L. Taylor, Hq Co, 3rd ECAR

Pfc David D. Dick, DP—20

Pfc Arlington R. Robnett, DP—20

Pfc Ralph Bardoff, Det I9A3

Pfc Louis P. Hamann, Det H4B3

Pfc Mimke H. Aden, Det H1B3

Pfc Ernest J. Holzer, Det G1B3

Pfc Alwin Altman, Det I14B3

Pfc Don Roberts, Det 14B3

Pfc Murray Greenberg, Det I3B3

Pfc Thomas S. Hoge, Det E1B3

Pfc Paul H. Hamming, Det 11C3

Pfc Edward Hamming, Det 12C3

Pfc Joseph B. Wolfe, Det 12C3

Pfc Alfred LaBanca, Hq, Co C, 3rd
ECAR

Pfc John T. Monser,
ECAR

Pfc Charles H. Green, Det I3D3

Pfc Gerhard W. Seyring, Det-12D3

Pfc Martin George, Det H2D3

Pfc Walter M. Goldschmidt, Det 12D3

Pfc Howard A. Halverson, Det H3D3

Pfc Martin Hochster, Det’ 11D3

Pfc Virgil H. Starnes, Det 11D3

Pfc Roy O. Sayler, Det H1D3

Pfc Robert D. Davis, Det I7E3

Pfc Rudolf G. Hosse, Det H3E3

Pfc John A. Wahlberg, Det I10E3

Pfc Fritz Neustaetter, Det HIE3

Pfc Alfred Abeson, Det I11E3

Pfc. Lester H. Frankel, Det H2E3

Pfc Paul W. Haas, Det I5E3

Pfc Gerhard C. Schwandt, Det I6E3

Pfc Alfred S. Bates, Det F1IF3

Pfc Irving. Bargolies, Det 12F3

Pfc: David Rudy, DP—16

Pfc Waldemar J. Dittmar, Det I1F3

Pfc Louis Amico, Hq, Co F, 3rd ECAR

Pfc Harry H. Weimischner, Det H2A3

Pfc Charles J. Mayersky, Det H2A3

Pfc Gerald K. Anderson, Det I5B3

Hq Co,

Hq, Co C, 3rd

Awards
LEGION OF MERIT
Col. H. McE. Pendleton, Hq, ECAD

Capt. Benjamin Halperin, Service Com-.

pany, ECAD
Capt. Eugene F. Voit, Hq, ECAD
M/Sgt Robert.S. Journell, Hq, ECAD

28

BRONZE STAR MEDAL
Lt. Col. Ernest H. Hicks, Service Com-
pany, ECAD
Maj. William L. Powers, Hq, ECAD
Maj. Frank A. Sawyer, R& T Bn, ECAD
Capt. Lucile G. Odbert, G—5, USFET
Ist Lt. Thomas Street, G—5, USFET
2nd Lt. Louis Chary, F1B3
Chief W. O. Robert G. Finney, Jr., G—5,
USFET
M'Sgt Thomas
USFET

CROIX DE GUERRE — PALM

Col. Walker L. Cisler, G—5, USFET
Col. Hayden N. Smith, G—5, USFET

CROIX DE GUERRE — RUBY CLUSTER:

Lt. Col. Daniel J. Glossbrenner, Ha,
ECAD

CROIX DE GUERRE — BRONZE STAR

Lt. Col. Howard F. Corcoran, G—5,
USFET

Lt. Col. John D. Faulkner, G—5, USFET

Lt. Col. Herman C. Nolen, G—5, USFET

Lt. Col. Frederick E. Simpich, G—5,
USFET

Maj. Charles G. Poore, G—5, USFET

F. -Mullarkey, G—5,

Returned to the States

Since June, 135 officers and
enlisted men from the European
Civil Affairs Division have been
reassigned to the U.S. for
honorable discharge. ECAD‘s
quota for August has been set
at 75 enlisted men and seven
officers.

Maj. Gen. F. J. Scowden, G—5, USFET

Maj. Gen. W. F. Draper, G—5 USFET

Col. Henry Parkman, Jr., G—5, 6th
Army Gp

Maj. Milton Barall, E1C3

Capt. T. J. Shannon, G—5, USFET

Capt. R. H. Cole, G—5 USFET

Lt. Cmd. Joseph H. Fisher,
USFET

WO, JG N. Messerer, G—5, USFET

MiSgt Jefferson F. Hicks Jr., Hq, ECAD

T/iSgt David S. White Co B, 24 ECAR

G—5,

--- Page 32 ---
S/Sgt Carl W. Aldenderfer ECA Med
Gp, .

S/Sgt Robert P. Ellinger, I18D3

S/Sgt Bruno N. Gratz, I6D3

SSgt Arthur I. McCloskey Hq ECAD

S/Sgt Max H. Wagner, F1F3

Teci3 Helmut Hertz, D2A1

Sgt Jason H. Fuller, B1F1

Sgt Clarence I. Hain, ECA Med Gp

Tecl4 Joseph Gauch, I5A3

Cpl Garett W. Buffington, ECA Med.
Gp

Cpl Edward B. Thomas, 2d ECA

Cpl Preston Usilton, H1B3

Tecl5 Toy J. Bush, F2G2

Tec/5 Harry B. Cooper, Hq, ECAD_ -

Tecl5 George W. F. Hallgarten, ECAD
R&TBn / ;

Tec/5 Joseph A. Hollander, A1A1

Tecl5 John H. Johannsen H3A3

Tec/5 Bernard Price I1A2

Tecl5 Jacob W. Schaffer, ECA Med Gp

Tecl5 George A. Wacker ECA R& TBn

Tec/5 Ernest H. Zinn, G1G3

Pfc Ernest J. Holzer, 11B3

Pfc Martin Leibel, ECA R&T Bn

Pfc George H. Moline, E1B3

Pfc Naymon S. Presley, Hq, ECAD

Pfc Joseph R. Powers, E1F3

Pfc Paul Riddle, Jr., 3d, ECA

Pfc Roy E. Schreiner, 2d ECA

Pfc Johannes Schuette, 14G3

Pfc Marcus L. Trosin, 113G2

Pvt Dorsey E. Frazier, 2d, ECA

Pvt Irving Magnus, H5D2

Pvt Carlton T.:Martin, 3d, ECA

Pvt Elmer W. Pauly, 16G3

Ist Sgt Fred F. Buttels, E2C2

Ist Sgt Fiori B. Chioffi Hq, Ist. ECAR

Ist Sgt Joseph J. Hladky, 2d ECAR

M/Sgt Robert O. Breach, H1E3, 2d ECAR

M/Sgt Andrew L. Durbin, ECA Currency
Section

M/Sgt William R. Hartin, F1G2

M/Sgt Henry Luedmann, E2K3

M/Sgt Elmer A. Short, H3E3

M/Sgt Lawrence A. Skelton, H6H2

T/Sgt John W. Burk, F1B3

T/Sgt Ralph W. Kenty, H3D3

T/Sgt Bill Wood, H3G3

siSgt George E. Ball, Co E, 2d ECAR

S/Sgt Harold R. Barnes, ECA Med. Gp,
S/Sgt Roy J- Becker, H2A2 :

29

S/Sgt William J. Bucklay, Hq Co, 2d"
ECAR

S/Sgt Charles H. Carr, 113G2

S/Sgt Basil R. Denison, Hq, ECAD

S/Sgt Lowell A Forcier, ELH2 -

S/Sgt Andrew Kubica, Jr., H3G3

S/Sgt Allan C. Mielke, Hq, Co H, 2d
ECAR

S/Sgt James A. Moon, RR Det

/Sgt Floyd Pacheco, Hq Co, 3d ECAR

S/Sgt Horace G. Williams, Hq 3d ECAR

S/Sgt Louis L. Young, ECAR Med Gp

Teci3 Harold E. Cracraft AlA1

Sgt William O. Cook, D3L1

Sgt Alvis O. Farmer? H7H2

Sgt Herbert J. Griffith, ECA Med Gp

Sgt Francis D. Humphrics ECA Med Gp

Sgt Franklin L. Stewart ECA Med Gp

Teci4 Stanley K. Bartges, Hq, Co E. 3d,
ECAR

Tec/4. Harold De Montfort, E1C3

Tec/4 Gerard L. Drouin, Hq, ECAD

Tec/4 Spurgeon F. Kuykendall,.Hq, Co
C, 2d, ECAR ;

Tec/4 Emil Wysocky Jr., Hq, ECAD

Cpl William Courtney Jr., Hg, Co G,
2d, ECAR

Cpl Albert C. Davis, RR Det

Cpl Wilbert M. Heins, 14C2

Cpl William T. Helmes, Hq Co 2d ECAR

Cpl William Rees, Hq Co 2d ECAR

Cpl Leonard C. Rosendahl, G1E2

Cpl Robert E. Stribling, Hq Co 2d ECAR

Cpl Frederic C. Varnum, H1C3

Cpl James M. Wicker, A1A1

Cpl Robert M. Zenz, Hq Co 2d ECAR

Tec/5 Lester L. Agnew, Hq, Co 2d ECAR

Tec/5 Walter T. Boulden, RR Det

Tecl5 Anthony J. Cerillo, F1D2

Tec/5 Steven J. Evock, Hq, Co D,
ECAR

Tec/5 William T. Harvey, H1C2

Tec/5 John G. Hunter, Hq, ECAD

Tec/5 Omar W. Johnson, Hq, Co L,
ECAR .

Tec/5 Edward L. Lankford

Tecl5 Waltér Laviana, Hq, Co B,
ECAR

Tec/5 Ardell J. Martz, C1L1

Teci5 Walter L. Moore, Ha, Co C,
ECAR

Tecl5 Robert J. Oates, E1G2

Tecl5 Samuel D. Page, Hq Co 2d ECAR

3d

Ist

2d

3d

--- Page 33 ---
Tec/5 Paul E. Peterson, EIF3

Tec/5 Dominic E. Petitto, Hq Co 2d
ECAR

Tec/5 Clarence A. Stephens, E1A2

Teci5 Albert W. Still, Hq Co 3d ECAR

Pfc Anthony T. Bianco, Hq Co 2d ECAR

Pfc David J. Bourgeois, E1D2

Pfc. Hugh A. Bowman. Hq Co 3d ECAR

Pfc Salvatore S. Delia, 15G3

Pfc Walter C. Hartford, Hq Co G 3d
ECAR

Pfc Edward L. Hayes, H3E3

‘Pfc Erwin M. Krogman, H4D2

Pfc Stefan Kusznier, A1L1

Pfc Peter G. Lumaduc, A1A1

Pfc Bernell A. Porter, E2C2

Pfe Arnold M. Rice, A1A1

Pfc Tillman E. Souter, Hq Co B Ist
ECAR :

30

Pfc Richmond D. Taylor, F1G2

Pfc Dennis Thacker, ECA Med Gp

Pvt Robert-E. Cameron, Hq Co 2d ECAR

Pvt Edgar M. Campion, F1G3

Pvt Jack T. Langham, F1A3

Pvt Paul E. Lovell, G1H2

1st Sgt John.S. Grammer, Det. H1A2

Tec/4 Victor E. Aumann, ECA Med Gp

Pfc Earl C. Doughty, Hq Co A 2d ECAR

T/Sgt Robert L. Schardt, Hq Co 2d
ECAR

Cpl Bernard Y. Goldberg, Det F2B2

ist Sgt Emittie J. Garrigo, Hq Co, 2d
ECAR .

T/Sgt Delmar R. West, Det F1B2

S/Sgt Fred A. Carmody, Det F1B2

Pvt Howard E. Coach, ECA Currency
Section

Pfc John H. Voorhies, Hq Co 2d ECAR

--- Page 34 ---


--- Page 35 ---


--- Page 36 ---
NY YJ
ats i USSR ZONE

Sonnebgrg
4 HOE!
, Va COBURG
g Remsen

Bes Konging

.
‘Selo,
\ t yutmpacn"* “*°
LU
N, SCHWEINFURT wyrveda
PY :
; 2 BARREUTH
% >
y WURZBURG
i)
Sh Oy) ange (
CF RRL "e
ee PKI i
RLANGEN

KK DORN
POOR KOK)
BS RW ey BREMEN ENCLAVE

‘3

Ky %

TRICK KK KG

XERXES u

KKK KG “ baer
ORK ry

uae IY . @ NUREMBERG AMBERG Vv

. N $SCHWANDORF

bs ANSBACH —_ PCHWABACH
; nent
: eames
‘S
. Sx
8 WESTERN retin wold REGENSBURG teats
A, hy
EDISTRICT Se
SAXXXS SO
eaeetetatetcenichatetetetghcdg tanec erat
mrarnnnnntnnanonteren
RSRKRRAKAN RR RS
ceeeratetatcececereetatgtatanacere
BSN BR RR KK JN
wie
DRY ORR N G
“*.

XX yy
RRR
QR ss

sae

jog.0 10 20 30 40 50

E_ EASTERN DISTRICT

--- Page 37 ---
