--- Page 2 ---
No. 4 — 18 AUGUST 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF
G-5 DIVISION
USEET

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
NY

—— BRITISH ZONE —
§
—— 2
E2c2
E =:
BREMEN ENCLAVE —— RUSSIAN ZONE
KASSEL =
@)
STERN
DISTRICT
MARBURG f
> —
GIEKSSE! fi
FULDA
(LIMBURG nn” eee
FRIEDBERG ba =
E6 (CopuRG
rea = TANK. M ( ee r
S KULMBACHY.
ASCHWEINPURT. A ;
“ss ano SIgavREUTH CZECHO - :
— cla WORZBURG ARAMBERG SLOVAKIA:
—=FRENCH WEIDEN,
—— ZONE E7 RLANGEN
NNHEIM fa FURTH
HEIDEYBERG DoTaSnneRe NURNBERG AMBERG
o> NSBACH SCHWANDORF
ary E 203
BRUCHSAL ILBRONN j s
RLSROME LL /
\ Y E 204
FRANG URLACH LuDWi i / EGENSBURG
nnn fd STRAUBING
/ I -
encen Ny -NEUBURGY E ASTE
<KIRCHEIM oe
GEIS INGEN BILLENSEN DISTRI
; = AUTOBAHN
~———— E201
FRENCH ZONE (5 208
‘Z EMMINGEN
ROSENHEIM
Fe et) 6050 10 340 50
EMPTEN
= = Ys
pi
5
— SWITZERLAND 2
4 AUSTRIA
——
—— SOURCE: G-5, USFET ~ STATISTICS SECTION
s SEG GEN STAFF USFET

--- Page 4 ---
No. 4 — 18 AUGUST 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE
ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF
G-5 DIVISION
USFET

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---
CONTENTS

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY .
The Abrogation of Nazi Law
The Future Nazi Propaganda Line
New Reporting Procedure Outlined .
First Mil Gov Conference Scheduled .
Medical School at Heidelberg Re-opens
PW Schools Train German Police .

GENERAL . ane
Pre-Hitler Political Parties .
Concentration Camp Death Figures .
Payment of Pensions Restricted
Non-Military Uniforms for Police .
De-Nazification Head Named .
Increased Housing Needed in Bremen .
Graves Service to Locate Bodies .
Ease Religious Bulletin Ruling .
Only US Flag to Fly in US Zone
Priority to Housing and Feeding

Germans Approved for MG Switchboards .

GERMAN REACTIONS

German Moral Rearmament Demanded
Redirection of Youth

Revolutionary Spirit?

The Rumor Factory Explodes

LESSONS FROM OPERATIONS
PRESS COMMENTS

Success of De-Nazification Emphasized .

Mil Gov Policy — Pro and Con
Food for Stability
Comments Chosen at Random

QUERIES.
PERSONAL DATA

PAGE

on ww

10

12

14
14
16
16
16
17
17
17
18
18
19
19

20

20
20
21
21

22

25
25
25
27
28

29

31

--- Page 6 ---
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

The Abrogation of Nazi Law

THE Mil Gov legislation directed at
the elimination of Nazi doctrine from
the German legal system, its laws as
well as its jurisdiction, represents one
of the most important and effective
steps toward the eradication of Nazism.
The Nazi regime could not have succeed-
ed in its complete domination of all
phases of public and private life through
the use of the police and Party troops
alone. It was necessary for Hitler also
to rescind the old, established laws
protecting the liberties and rights of the

individual and to eliminate the in- °

dependent judiciary. Thus, the laws and
orders directed at the protection of the
Party hierarchy which permeated all of
the legal system formed one of the main
pillars for the structure of the Nazi
state.

Our task of eradicating from German
law everything obnoxious to our sense
of justice and decency would have been
a comparatively simple one if we had
to deal with a number — even a con-
siderable number — of clear-cut Nazi
edicts. However, in addition to obvious
legislation established to support the
Nazi. party and its principles, an im-
mense volume of supplementary, and
often overlapping, decrees and ordinan-
ces was put into effect. The legal gazette
of the Reich contains over 9,500 different

‘enactments promulgated during the
Nazi regime, a figure which does not
include other ministerial ordinances
and decrees of the Reich and the various
states. Old laws were rewritten, amended

or changed. New laws, decrees and
ordinances, affecting every sphere of
public and private life, were enacted.
Finally, there was not a single law or
regulation of importance which did not
somewhere bear the brand of the
swastika.

To revise or amend every legislative
act which required a change would have
been a job of such immensity that it
would have taken years to complete.
In the meantime the odious laws would
have remained in force even during the
period of occupation. A more radical |
and swifter process would have been
the complete repeal of all enactments
issued since the beginning of the Nazi
regime on 30 January 1933. One would
thus have reverted to the status of
legislation as it existed prior to that
date. But to turn the clock back this
far would have created serious difficul-
ties.

COMPROMISE SOLUTION

Much of the Nazi legislation was
necessitated by new developments in
public and’ economic life. A vacuum
resulting from the removal of essential
legislation would have required the
prompt re-enactment of a large number
of laws or parts of laws. Mil Gov would
thus have been forced into the uncom-
fortable position of having to recognize
the justification of certain legislative
acts of the Nazi government. The drastic
method of changing all of the present
legal system in Germany would also

--- Page 7 ---
have gone far beyond the official aim
of Mil Gov to do only what is required
to eliniinate Nazism and militarism.

These considerations led to the com-
promise solution of abrogating a limited
number of basic Nazi laws and. of
eliminating the discriminatory features
of other laws, by means of sweeping
general clauses. On the basis of this
decision, Mil Gov enacted Law No. 1,
titled ’Abrogation of Nazi Law.”

The list of basic laws rescinded by
Article 1 of Law No. 1 consists of three
categories:

PUT NAZIS IN POWER

One group served to establish the
dominating position of the Nazi Party
and its affiliated organizations. This
legislation began with the establishment
‘of the Nazi Party as the sole party in
Germany and the outlawing of all other
parties (Law of 14 July 1933). The next
step was-directed toward clarifying the
relation between Party and State (Law
of.1 December 1933, changed by Decree
of 12 December 1942). Actually, this
created an indefinite and often conflict-
ing status of national and Party
authority which even prominent mem-
bers of Party and government have,
during interrogation, termed obscure
and often exasperating. Both State and
Party were then protected against
criticism of any kind by the’ Law of 20
December 1934, which became the most
effective tool in the suppression of
freedom of speech, and which sent many
freespoken persons to jails and con-
centration camps. An equally effective
means for creating a firm foundation
for Nazism within the population was
the Hitler Youth Law of 1 December
1936, which forced every child in Ger-
many to serve in the Hitler Youth

organization for the express purpose
of undergoing a thorough indoctrinat-
ion in Nazi ideology.

The next set of laws, now abolished,
dealt with national symbols, protecting
them against abuse (Law of 19 May
1933) and proclaiming black-white-red
as the national colors and the swastika
flag as the national flag (Law of 15
September 1935).

Laws which had as their objectives
the enforcement of Nazi racial theories
form the third group. The Citizenship
Law of 15 September 1935 took away
from all persons of non-Germanic
extraction full citizenship rights, parti-
cularly the privilege of voting or
holding public office. On the same day
another law was enacted with the title,

"Law for the Protection of German

Blood and Honor,” for the sole purpose

’ of prohibiting marriages and sexual

intercourse between Jews and other
inhabitants.

Each of the basic laws mentioned
above was given force by subsidiary
or supplementary regulations. These
regulations, as wetl as the fundamental
laws, were deprived of effect by Article
I of Law No. 1. A partial list of the
regulations has been prepared and
furnished as Regulation No. 1 to Law
No. 1.

NEED ADDITIONAL LIST

An additional list, more complete but
far too long, would have had to be
compiled in an attempt to . eradicate
every single law or part of a law into
which Nazi ideologies had crept in the
form of privileges for loyal Nazis and
discrimination against those they had |
honored by calling their enemies. To
cover all ‘these varied cases, Article II

--- Page 8 ---
of Law No. 1 establishes a general
clause suspending the judicial or ad-
ministrative application of all German
laws favoring persons because of their

connection with the Nazi Party or

affiliated organizations, or discriminat-
ing against persons by reason of race,
nationality, religious beliefs or oppo-
sition to national socialism.

REMOVES PRIVILEGES

This clause removes such Nazi privi-
leges as the right of officers in the
Party or affiliated organizations to
refuse testimony before a court in
matters pertaining to their organization
(Law of 1 December 1936). By it, the
old Party members (those with mem-
bership numbers up to 340,000) and
those who were active fighters in the
Nazi organizations prior to 30 January
1933 have lost their right, under the
ministerial order of 18 April 1936, to
receive preference in’ employment in
public enterprises.

On the other side of the fence, among
rules discriminating against those whom
the Nazis considered their enemies may
be found an even greater variety of
laws. There were those eliminating
Jews from every sphere of public and
civil life, a list of which alone would
cover many pages; there were laws
against Gypsies and Poles and rulings
like the one in paragraph 13 of the
Hereditary Farm Law of 29 September
1933, which excluded from the rights
of a hereditary farmer a man among
whose forefathers as far back as 1
January 1800 was a person of colored
blood. Men, or the families of men, who
had suffered wounds or were killed in
line of duty while fighting against
internal disorders lost their claim to
compensation if they had belonged to
a Party considered hostile by the Nazi

regime (Law of 27 February 1934).
These few examples are cited to show
how varied were the fields of legislation
which were affected by Nazi ideology.

However, even with all the new
decrees or changes in legislation pro-
mulgated since 1933, the intricate
system of German law was too complex
and too huge for even the Nazi govern-
ment to amend and rewrite wherever
the infiltration of Nazi doctrines
appeared desirable. Another way to
achieve this goal had to be sought and
was found in the Nazification of the
judical system. The word of the law as
it was to be understood by fair and
impartial interpretation had to be
distorted by reading into it a meaning
which suited Nazi political purposes and
doctrines. The judgment was not to be
based merely on what appeared just
and equitable; the right was determined
by what benefitted the State.

These principles were expounded by
the Nazi-appointed judges of the higher
courts; they had to be followed by
every other judge who desired to keep
his job or to advance in office. This
situation prompted the incorporation
into Law No. 1 of a provision (Article
Ill) prohibiting the interpretation or
application of German law in accord-
ance with Nazi doctrines no matter
where enunciated.

PUNISHMENT WITHOUT LAW

More drastic and distasteful than any
of the afore-mentioned distortions of
justice were the violations of age-old
principles of law and of the rights of
man, perpetrated by the Nazi treatment
of criminal law. Nulla poena sine lege
— no punishment without law — is a
rule which has been upheld by all
civilized nations for thousands of years. _
The Nazis broke this old rule in two

--- Page 9 ---
different ways: by establishing criminal
laws of retroactive effect, and by con-
sidering an act a criminal offense on
the basis of its:mere similarity with
another act punishable by a law. This
other act- was then applied by way of
analogy, if such application could be
considered to be in accordance with the
so-called sound instincts of the people.”
And as though not enough rights of the
individual were thus infringed upon,
the police, specifically the Gestapo,
were authorized to detain persons whom
judges might fail to convict, for in-
definite periods and without any warn-
ing or trial. Article IV of Law No. 1
abolishes and prohibits all these
aberrations from the basic rules of
justice. It furthermore prohibits the
cruel or excessive punishments meted

The Future Nazi

NAZI propaganda is not dead. It will
continue to operate until the last Nazi
has been extirpated and until the last
believer in Germany’s military heritage
has been caught. However, unlike the
days of Goebbels’, glory, it has taken
on a distinctly underground cast, which
if possible makes it all the more subtle
and deadly. |

Recently, an American officer com-
plained that the French were as guilty
of atrocities as the Germans. He cited
as evidence reports on the rape of Ger-
man women by French troops. Upon
questioning, he admitted that his sources
were German civilians.

In another area it was reported to
French authorities that a US Army
captain had confronted a French colonel
with a 45 and had demanded the release

of prisoners in the French officer’s -

out so lightly in the atmosphere of a
brutal dictatorship, and it abolishes the
death penalty in all cases not punishable
by death prior to 30 January 1933.

With the enactment of Law No. 1, a
vital portion of the job of purging Nazi
law has been completed. The removal
of objectionable judges supplements the
work. However, this represents merely
the first phase of our mission. A vast
number of additional laws. still exist
which, while not discriminatory, are
imbued with Nazi doctrine and must be
deprived of effect. An exhaustive study
of all German law enacted since 30
January 1933 is being initiated as the
basis for the repeal or revision of
further Nazi-tainted enactments. Thus,
a tremendous task remains to be
accomplished.

Propaganda Line

custody. Fortunately, the French colonel
and the American captain were iden-
tified and brought face to face. They
agreed that the incident had never
occurred. Investigation disclosed that
it: had originated in the mouth of a
German -civilian.

The above two incidents are typical
of the stream of rumors being circulated
by the Germans to drive a wedge be-
tween the United Nations’ armies of
occupation. It follows the well-known
but still potent policy adopted by Hitler
and perfected by Goebbels in the past:
divide and conquer. It was the technique
applied. by the Nazis when they made
their plans to annex Austria, conquer
Czechoslovakia, and drive their armed
steam-roller across duped Europe. It
was, and still is, the most dangerous
weapon that can be used against us. It

--- Page 10 ---
is up to us, however, to render it
powerless.

Take, for example, this story reported
to USFET from a Mil Gov Detachment.
An American colonel was quoted as
saying there had been eighty cases of
rape by French troops during the month
of June, and he named the town where
the rapes were supposed to have taken

_place. Present at the time the statement
was made was another American officer
who had been on duty in the town
mentioned, and who could categorically
deny the truth of the statement. When
interrogated the colonel admitted that
German administrative officials had
been the source of his information.

USES FLATTERY

In Cologne, where SHAEF operated
a large printing plant, there was noticed
on the part of the German master
printers, who commanded a certain
respect because of their technical skill,
a tendency to flatter the Americans at
the expense of the British. At that time
it was not known definitely whether
this area would be occupied -by the
British or the Americans, and as a
result the German civilian employees
spoke deprecatingly of the English,
claiming that they much preferred the
speed and dispatch with which the
Americans accomplished their tasks - - a
speed and dispatch which, they made
certain to add, was very much in accord
with German ideas of efficiency.” A
similar occurence was encountered
by an American lieutenant operating a
commercial plant taken over by the
Army in Bonn, where the plant manager,
after a ’softening up” process which
consisted of telling the American officer
how much the Germans had in common
with the Americans, made equally dis-
paraging remarks about the British.

He was disappointed when the lieute-
nant severely reprimanded him for
slurring one of the Allied powers.

In Berlin, civilians, speaking to Ameri-
cans, warn them about Russia’s plans
for world conquest, but when talking
to Russians they tell them of their
appreciation of the USSR’s speedy re-
opening of newspapers and_ public
service facilities, implying that the
Americans and British have been caught
napping in this respect.

Every where. the tune is the same
The Nazis start rumors among their
own people and, by the time these
rumors ‘have passed from one group to
another, they have become distorted
beyond recognition. Finally, they are
fed into the ears of Mil Gov personnel,
so colored as to make them palatable
to the particular nationality for whom
they are intended.

The duty of Mil Gov personnel is
plain. The French, British and Russians
are our allies. They fought with us when
the situation was most acute, they bled
with us, they died with some of us - - all
for a common cause. The military
victory -has been achieved, but that
common cause for which the United
Nations fought has still to be won, and
it can be won only if the United Nations
remain united. Can we, four months
after hostilities have ceased, accept the
witness of the enemies who slaughtered
our troops at the expense of the Allies
who stood at our side?

This last Nazi-militarist stratem is
obvious for those who have eyes and

_ consciences rather than conceit and

prejudices. Every attempt will be made
in the coming months. now that
restrictions against fraternization have
been relaxed, to drive a wedge between
the allies. It is our duty to ensure that
this wedge is never driven.

--- Page 11 ---
_ New Reporting Procedure Outlined

WITH the issuance of the new USFET
Reports and Information directive, the
rendering of reports by Mil Gov De-
tachments will become simpler and less
burdensome. Known as ”Section XXV”
of USFET Mil Gov Directive dated 7
July 1945, the instructions will also
indicate the procedure to be followed
in furnishing the field information re-
quired by the Military Governor, by
USFET, and by US Group CC.

The directive was drawn up primarily
because of the necessity of having at
Theater and Group adequate informa-
tion, promptly reported, on actual con-
ditions in the US Zone. This material
is vital to executive direction and policy
formulation, and further serves to keep
the Joint Chiefs of Staff in Washington
informed of Mil Gov activities in the
US Zone. One of the principal concerns
of the directive framers was the
desirability of relieving, or at any rate
not increasing, the burden of report-
making which is already borne by the
detachments.

The directive presents to the Military
District Commanders, and through them
to the detachments, a statement of all
initial surveys and recurrent reports
required of detachments by Theater Hq
and US Group CC, explains the various
categories of reports, and provides for
the assignment to each Land/Provinz
and Regierungsbezirk detachment, or
equivalent, of a Field Reporting Officer
to assist in implementing the directive.
Duplication of reports between Theater
and Group which may have existed
hitherto has been eliminated

Accompanying the directive are two
annexes. Annex ”A” lists each required

report by name, states how often it is
to be made, the agency responsible for
making it, the agency to which it is to
be sent, the channel by which it is to
be forwarded, and the number of
copies required. Annex ”B” consists of
copies, or drafts, of forms for the
making of reports, with instructions for
filling out the forms.

In a majority of cases, provision is
made for the use of technical, functional
or service channels for the transmittal
of functional reports to Theater and
Group, so that information may be
received promptly by the agencies which
will use it.

REMOVE CONFUSION

Thus, the new directive should result
in clearing away any confusion which
may have existed concerning what re-
ports are required. The provision of
specific forms to be used is intended to
lighten the labor of making reports and
to insure that the exact information
needed is furnished. The assignment
of Field Reporting Officers to detach-
ments is intended to facilitate the
establishment of an orderly, workable
system for the handling of reports. By
the use of technical channels for for-
warding functional reports directly to
Theater and Group, much more prompt
receipt of needed information, and
therefore more prompt action upon it,
may be expected.

It is recognized that up to the present
time most of the information required
from the field has had to be prepared
by Mil Gov personnel. But, to meet the
full requirements for information, it
will be necessary for Mil Gov at all
levels to encourage and expedite the

--- Page 12 ---
activation or re-establishment of Ger-

man agencies to collect and furnish -

factual data, especially in such fields
as population and agriculture, where the
local agencies were charged with
Statistical responsibilities in normal
times. The directive points out Mil Gov’s
need for information from such Ger-
man agencies, and requires that they be
set up to assume their responsibilities
without delay.

PRIORITY FOR URGENT REPORTS

In view of the present limited report-
ing facilities in the field, the new Re-
ports and Information directive gives a
priority to those reports which are most
urgently needed. Field reports in
Priority ”’A” are absolutely essential
and must be filled out and forwarded in
all cases as prescribed. Reports with a
lower priority are of such nature that
some detachments may find it im-
possible to obtain all the information
desired. In such cases, the reports may
be submitted in incomplete form, but
the responsible agency is expected to
make arrangements to obtain the bal-
ance of the information as soon as
possible.

A safeguard in the directive against
increasing the load upon Mil Gov de-
tachments is the provision that neither
Theater nor Group will demand reports
other than those listed, except in emer-
gency, until the request is approved for
priority and given an approval number.
The lower echelons are directed to refer
back to USFET. Headquarters, through
channels, any requests except obviously
emergency requests, which do not. bear
an approval number. This provision
sliould prevent any recurrence of dupli-
cation of reports.

Field Reporting Officers to be assigned
to the Land and RB detachments are
being schooled at G-5, USFET, under
the direction of Colonel L. E. Dostert,
Chief of Reports and Information
Branch, and some have already gone
into the field to begin their work.
Others will leave within a short time.

The primary mission of the Field
Reporting Officer is to insure the
carrying out of the directive. He will
assist the detachment commander. and
the functional officers in any way con-
sistent to that end. He is especially
charged with checking up on the use of
German agencies for furnishing in-
formation, and with reporting to the
detachment commander any difficulties
or deficiencies which may hamper the
fulfillment of the complete schedule.
The Field Reporting Officer will also
serve as a channel for transmitting
technical information on field reporting .
between the detachment and Head-
quarters, USFET, and the dissemination
of advance information on reports and
requirements, acting through the de-
tachment commander.

NO ADDITIONAL BURDEN

While the directive is concerned only
with the. reporting requirements of
USFET. and US Group CC, it is expected
that study of the reports problem at
detachment level will reveal that many,
if not most, reports required by Mili-
tary Districts and other agencies can
be made on the basis of the information
called for by Theater level requirements.
Therefore, this directive should not
create any additional burden upon the
detachments.

--- Page 13 ---
First Mil Gov Conference Scheduled

A THREE-DAY operational conference
to promote a better understanding of
Military Government policy in the US
Zone and to assist in solving current
field problems will be conducted at
Headquarters, USFET, in Frankfurt, on
August 27, 28, and 29, 1945.

Called together by Brig. Gen. C. L.
Adcock, Assistant Chief of Staff, G-5,
USFET, the conference will discuss the
United States Policy for the occupation
of Germany, as stated in military gov-
ernment directives and the Potsdam
Agreements.

The commanding generals, chiefs of
staff and assistant chiefs of staff, G-5,
of the Military Districts have been in-
vited to attend the meeting, the first of
its-kind. ever to be held in the US zone.
In addition, invitations will be forwarded
to the G-5 staff-division chiefs of the
two Military Districts and to the com-
manding officers and key functional
personnel of the regional, Bremen and
Berlin detachments. Regional command-
ers will be advised concerning the
number of spezialist officers who may
attend. -

TO HOLD: MONTHLY MEETING

Lieut. Gen. Lucius D. Clay, Deputy
Military Governor, and Gen. Adcock will
hold their regular monthly meeting
with the district commanders and their
staffs during this period. Commanding
officers of the regional detachments
will attend this regular: meeting, an-
nounced General Adcock.

The tentative program for the. con-
ference consists of a morning and an
afternoon session, each approximately
three and a half hours long. Each meet-
ing, it was announced, will be devoted
to one major aspect of US policy. The

10

majority of the conference sessions will
be featured by short addresses by
functional specialists, but time also has
been allotted for general questions and
discussion.

General Adcock stated that these
question-and-discussion periods would
be particularly emphasized, adding that
he hoped questions submitted by the
Districts, the Branches of the Theater,
and the Divisions of the Council would
be carefully analyzed to develop the
major current problems.

The program of the first session,
scheduled for 0900 hours, August 27th,
will be conducted by Ambassador Robert
Murphy, US Political Advisor to the
Military Governor. The topic for dis-
cussion during this initial session is
”’The Eradication of Nazism and Mili-
tarism.” Other meetings will have as
chairmen, Maj. Gen. O. P. Echols, of
US Group CC, and Brig. Gen. W. H.
Draper, Jr., of and US Group CC.

Other major subjects slated for dis-
cussion at the conference include the
”*Development of Democratic Methods
and Attitudes’, Restoration of a Mini-
mum German Economy”, ”Reparations
and the Elimination of War Potential”,
and ’Current Developments in Military
Government”.

One general session of the conference
will be omitted so that separate meet-
ings may be conducted by each group
of functional specialists to consider
current problems in their respective
fields. :

Decisions reached at the conference,
as weil as clarifications of operational
procedure, will be brought to the -
attention of each detachment in the US
Zone by the regional detachment com-
manders.

--- Page 14 ---
Medical School at Heidelberg Re-opens

THE task of protecting the health of
US troops and Allied nationals demands
that the health of the German people

be kept at as high a level as possible,
despite the fact that German medicine

and surgery deteriorated considerably
during the Hitler era. German PWs are
in a particularly bad state, many of
them being in need of additional opera-
tions because of bad amputational
surgery, while, in at least one instance,
the German hospitalization program
has confined blind Wehrmacht troops
with insanity cases. .

In order to remedy this situation, the
entire medical program of Germany will
be reformed under American super-
vision, according to Maj. Gen. M. C.
Stayer, Chief of the Public Health
Branch of G-5, USFET. Universities will
be opened with pre-Nazi entrance re-
quirements in effect; licensing of
surgeons and physicians will fall into
the same category, and all instructors
will be vetted before being allowed to
teach.

The first German medical institution
to reopen under this program is the
University of Heidelberg. De-Nazified
and reorganized by Military Govern-
ment, it resumed operation on 15
August. Its initial program is a ten-
week refresher course planned for. 300
former German Army physicians re-
turning to civilian practice.

The new faculty is composed of 11,

members selected after a thorough in-
vestigation. Col. Myron P. Rudolph,
Seventh Army Surgeon, investigated the
physical facilities of the Medical School
and reported that all necessary basic
equipment and supplies for the course

11

are available. Since the University of
Heidelberg has never had dormitories,
the housing problem is being met by
placing students with families in the
city.

The newly appointed dean of the
medical faculty, Dr. Karl Heinrich Bauer,
is charged with the task of administer-
ing the school under supervision of Mil
Gov authorities. Professor Bauer, who
has never been a member of the Nazi
party, and whose book on the bio-
logical foundation of eugenics was
banned by the Nazis, is one of Ger-
many’s outstanding surgeons.

REALIZE RESPONSIBILITIES

“While the principal objective of the
Medical School of the University will
be to train physicians and surgeons
with the best possible methods known
to modern science,” said Dr. Bauer ’we
are also conscious of the heavy social
and political responsibilities which are
ours at this time. With respect to Ger-
many, we must aim to achieve the
respect of our conquerors. German can
purify herself of her past only by con-
structive achievement.”

Founded in 1386, the University of
Heidelberg -is the oldest university in
Germany. When the Nazi party rose to
power in 1933, liberal-thinking profes-
sors and democratic idealists left the
classrooms. The Nazis moved in and
made a Party showcase of the institution,
to such an extent that on the 550th
anniversary, in 1936, most British and
American scholars refused ‘invitations
to attend the ceremonies.

The University was closed when Ameri-
can troops occupied the city. Mil

--- Page 15 ---
Gov's primary mission was de-Nazi-
fication of the Medical School. Dr. E. Y.
Hartshorne, of Harvard University, was
selected to accomplish the task.
Fifteen proposed faculty members
were interviewed and screened,” said
Doctor Hartshorne. Seven were free of
any contact with the Nazis. Four pro-
fessors had only superficial contact with
the Nazi party since May 1, 1937, and
are acceptable under existing Mil Gov
directives. Three were conditionally
rejected for having had party affilia-
tions. And one proposed member for the
faculty was unconditionally rejected.”
The screening’ process for  de-
Nazifying institutions is thorough, in

PW Schools Train

IN SEPTEMBER of 1944, when the
US armies began their advance into
Germany, it was discovered that no
German professional policemen were
available, most of those who were not
in the Wehrmacht having been eva-
cuated to the east. It was suggested at
the time that German civilians be re-
cruited from their homes and welded
into a police force, but this would
hardly have solved the problem of
occupational law enforcement. As an
alternative, a school was established by
lst US Army at Verviers, Belgium, with
the sole purpose of training former
professional police who were being
released from-PW camps.

The first group of 54 ex-policemen
were released to Public Safety Branch,
G-5 Section, Ist US Army, on 12 October
1944, after screening by CIC and G-5
public safety officers.

that several agencies investigate the
proposed members, special: university
Fragebogen are filled out by the
applicants and closely examined, and
screening is supplemented by reference
to information collected by Allied
Nations on prominent personalities in
Germany during the Nazi regime.

While it is not contemplated that
other branches of the University will
be reopened in the near future, Doctor
Hartshorne stated that other Faculty
Planning Committees in the institution
are busy preparing their proposals and
engaging in preliminary work . toward
re-establishing the University of Heidel-
berg on its old liberal basis.

German Police

The study of Military Government
proclamations, laws and _ ordinances
formed the basis for the first training
program, which was organized under
the direction of a staff of selected Ger-
man instructors. Written homework
was assigned on prepared problems
dealing with our regulations, and
critiques and discussions were conducted
on each problem. By and large, the
student solutions showed an active
interest, as well as an understanding of
the questions involved. A majority of
the homework also demonstrated the
ability to write clear, brief and com-
prehensive reports.

” Those of the students who possessed
special police training or teaching

ability were directed to submit drafts

of lectures, which were expanded into
two-hour schoolroom talks. Subjects
discussed included registration, price

--- Page 16 ---
control, organization, administration,
border and traffic control, and general
police responsibilities. Two hours daily
-were spent in learning simple English.
Orientation courses presented material
ranging from US military courtesy and
insignia of rank to descriptions of
American life and democratic practices.

The school was administered as a
self-contained unit, but, when necessary,
the Army provided cooks, bakers,
doctors, barbers, carpenters and tailors.

A school established by the Ist Army is
still functioning in Marburg, and to date
more than 250 police instructors have
been sent into the field to prepare
selected personnel for public safety
work. The quality of the personnel has
been excellent and as yet no serious
breach of discipline has been reported
to the school.

At first some reluctance to employ
ex-PWs as policemen was evidenced,
but soon the competence of the police-
school graduates was discovered, and
present demands are in excess of the
available supply.

MORE SCHOOLS ORGANIZED

Since the establishment of this first
school, similar institutions have been

organized in the US Zone, and are
functioning smoothly under the ad-
ministration and tutelage of the

graduates of the 1st Army school.

In addition, other schools are being
conducted by the Provost Marshal
General in the US, at Forts Getty and
Wetherill, R. I., where PWs are trained
for administrative positions, police
work, and specialized civilian trades and
professions. The course lasts two

13

months, and much time is spent in the
study of the English language.

Personnel are selected after a long
period of observation and thorough
screening, for their demonstrated
opposition to Nazism and their co-
operativeness with democratic ob-
jectives. Such schools will possibly. be
the future source of supply for specialist
civilian policemen. :

ENSURE ADEQUATE TRAINING

The responsibility for the establish-
ment of police schools in Germany is
one for the German civil authorities,
under the supervision of Military Gov-
ernment, but to ensure that adequate
training is provided for German civil
police, the following directive was in-
cluded in USFET Directive’ to Com-
manding Generals, Military Districts, in
July, 1945: ;

"You will ensure that suitable and
adequate police and fire-defense schools
and in-service training programs for
training policemen and firemen are
established in the various jurisdictions
where they are needed. Land govern-
ments will establish such schools for
training instructors and for training
policemen and firemen from localities
which do not have the facilities for
establishing such schools of their own.
You will ensure that all Nazi and mili-
taristic subject matter and military
training are excluded from the pro-
grams in all police and fire schools and
training classes.”

The responsibility for the establish-
ment of schools is one for German Civil
Authorities under supervision of Mili-
tary Government.

--- Page 17 ---
GENERAL

Pre-Hitler Political Parties

THE following brief sketches of. the
pre-1933 German political. parties. may
be helpful to officers who have to con-
sider the political. backgrounds of Ger-
man personnel. The main parties, other
than the Nazis, are taken in order from
right to left. These descriptions of the
parties as of, 1932 do. not,. of course,
necessarily portray accurately the parties
as they are today.

The German Nationalist Party
(Deutsch-Nationale Partei)

This was the party of nationalism and
of the old order, the party of officers
and landowners. Militarist and vaguely
monarchist, it had‘no social program.
It was hostile to the Republic; but, in
the Stresemann period, its more mod-
erate members half-heartedly. accepted
the policy of treaty fulfillment. They
were, however, pushed aside by Hugen-
berg, Nationalist spokesman of heavy
industry;:and in 1932, Hugenberg for-
med a.coalition with the Nazis, which
ruined the Republic but did not do him
much good. Their highest poll was six
million in December, 1924; their lowest,
two million in July, 1932. The Stahlhelm
was in some ways their military for-
mation.

The German People’s Party
(Deutsche Volkspartei)
The party was the organ of the less

extremist capitalists. Its greatest mem-
ber was Stresemann; after his death it

14

virtually. vanished... Though: not sRepub-
lican, it did not advocate open violence.

The Center. Party
_ (Zentrums Partei)

It was the main concern. of this party
to promote the interests. of the Roman
Catholic church, including its control of
education. As a result it would _partici-
pate in any government which, would
respect the position of. the Roman
Catholic church. Thus, it helped in the
creation of the Republic but later it
voted: for Hitler's overthrow -of the
Republic. ThesCenter Party had a
genuinely democratic: Left Wing and
democratic Christian :trades unions, but
it also had an undemocratic Right Wing,
indistinguishable -- except on Roman
Catholic claims - - from the Nationalists.
Thus, being unstable politically, and
maintaining a steady average of five
million ‘votes, it helped: make a two-
party system impossible .and. thereby
contributed to the ruin of democratic
government.

The Bavarian People’s Party
(Bayrische Volkspartei)

This was the Bavarian branch of the
Centrists, originally developed for Ba-
varian affairs, but in time sending a
separate contingent to the Reichstag. It,
too, was avowedly confessional, defend-
ing the Roman Catholic claims, but it
defended also the rights of Bavaria. It
was always extremely conservative; in
1923 ‘the Bavarian clerical government
played with the idea of co-operating

--- Page 18 ---
with Hitler against the Reich, but took
fright just in time. Its voting strength
never varied, for it always: polled the
Bavarian peasants, and hardly anyone
else.

The Democratic Party
(Deutsche Demokratische Partei)

This was a party of intellectuals and
theorists, genuine adherents of demo-
cracy and the Republic, . anxious for
Germany to accept a Stable, defined
position in Europe. It had leaders of
ability and devotion to duty; all it
Jacked was supporters. It had consider-
able importance in the earlier years of
the Republic, but ended its career in
1932 with only two members in the
Reichstag.

The German Middle: Class: Party
(Wirtschaftspartei)

A small party, representing small
traders and manufacturers, it was main-
ly concerned in defending its supporters
against both the State and the great
monopolies.

The Social Democratic Party
(Sozialdemokratische Partei)

The real party of the Republic, it was
the only mass party. which cared for
democracy and political liberty. Osten-
sibly, a party of Marxist theories, in
fact it was thé party of the trade unions
and of the moderaté ‘non-revolutionary
working class.
social reforms and a peaceful foreign
policy. Its leaders had no profound

It stood for cautious.

15

political sense; but ; the; were sincere
Germans, and’ Sincere’ ettfocrats. The
Social Democrats have the honor, alone
among the German Parties, of never
Having. flifted: with, the Nazis and of
having ‘held’ up eir heads in protest,
albeit ineffective protest, until the end.
Their highest’vote ‘was eleven million
in*1919} their lowest, six million in
June, 1924. They -had a ‘private ‘defense
force, thé ‘Reichsbanner, but its leaders
never gave the signal for resistance.

The Communist Party
“(Kommunistische Partei Deutschlands)
The KPD was founded in 1918, and

always regarded its chief task as war
against the Social Democrats. Even in
1932-1933 the Communists argued that
Nazi dictatorship: would<'prepare the
way for a Communist revolution. Still,
at bottom, they were not: really a
revolutionary party: they were a party
of revolutionary theorists without .any
grasp of reality and without: initiative.
Their most serious task they. regarded
to be obedience to the-orders of the
Comintern. Their advocacy of violence
led many of their followers to turn into
enthusiastic Nazis relatively early. . The
Communist: vote increased: steadily and
reached its highest point of. almost six
million in December, -1932. The Com-
munists - organized their own anti-
democrati¢’ trade . unions, which were
strong in Communist districts; and
possessed a fighting force, the "Red
Front Fighters.”

--- Page 19 ---
Concentration Camp Death
Figures

STARTLING evidence of the thor-
oughness with which the Nazis carried
out their policy of exterminating Jews
and the political opponents of Nazism
is contained in figures compiled recent-
ly by the Combined Displaced Persons
Executive. The figures show that of
some 234,000 Jews deported to Ger-
many from France, Belgium, the Nether-
lands and Norway, the total repatriated
so far was less than 10,000. Similarly,
‘of approximately 163,000 persons de-
ported from these same countries for
political reasons, only 39,000 have re-
turned. o

Although a few additional Jews and
political. deportees may still be un-
covered in hospitals and other places
in Germany, it must be assumed that
the difference between the two sets of
figures represents approximately the
number of racial and political deportees
from these countries who died at
Auschwitz, Belsen, Dachau, Buchenwald
and other Nazi murder camps. Of the

four countries, France and the Nether-’

lands have suffered most. In France, of
105,000 deported Jews, only from two
to four thousand have returned and
only’ 21,0000 of some 120,000 political
deportees have been repatriated. In the
Netherlands, the original Jewish popu-
lation of 140,000 was decimated by the
deportation of over 110,000, of whom
only 5,000 have so far returned; corre-
spondingly only 2,500 of 20,000 political
. deportees have been repatriated.

Although similar figures for other
European * countries are not yet avail-
able, all evidence points to the fact that
there is not a single country in Europe

16

which was under Nazi rule that did not
suffer as heavily as a result of the Nazi
deportation policy. It is certain that
the greatest number of Jews and poli-
tical deportees murdered by the Nazis
came from Eastern European countries,
in particular Czechoslovakia and Poland.

Payment of Pensions Restricted

RESTRICTIONS on pensions being
paid to German civilians by the Ver-
sorgungsamt (Pension Office) in Frank-
furt was made recently by Detachment
E1D2, which directed that all pensions,
except those for disabled soldiers, be
paid only after the applicant presented
a certificate from the Arbeitsamt prov-

ing his inability to work. People cut

from the rolls by this new policy will
apply to the Municipal Welfare Officer
for cash grants. Those who require
medical assistance will also apply to the
Welfare Office, which will in turn, refer
cases to the Ortskrankenkasse (Local
Health Office).

The Ortskrankenkasse was informed
that individuals paying contributions
would receive benefits, but that the
group for which the Reich had formerly
contributed would receive no benefits
unless the persons who fell within this
group, in addition to their own con-.
tributions, were willing to pay the sums
previously provided by the German
government.

Non-Military Uniforms for Police

A COMPLETE reorganization of the
Bremen civilian police department is
being undertaken by Detachment E2C2.
At a recent conference between Mili-
tary Government public safety officers
and the Bremen public officials, it was

--- Page 20 ---
agreed ‘that the military aspects of the
police department would be limited.
Under the new plan, police titles will
be non-military in character, and the
rank insignia will be changed to con-
form with the pre-war title.

‘The new recruiting. plan calls for a
selection of police on the basis of an
examination similar to American Civil
Service standards. Applicants who are
selected will be trained in the Police
Academy before being assigned official
duties. Detachment E2C2 also ordered
that all functions which came under the
jurisdiction of the police department
prior to the war will be returned to the
department.

De-Nazification Head Named

GENERAL Eisenhower has made Brig.
Gen. C. L. Adcock, Assistant Chief of
Staff, G-5, USFET, responsible for the
supervision of de-Nazification policies
in the US areas of control. This respon-
sibility entails the approval or dis-
approval of all applications for appoint-
ments or reinstatements of those Nazis
who come within the scope of the
USFET mandatory removal and ex-
clusion categories. It also involves the
review of reports showing the retention
of nominal Nazis.

To carry out this task, General Adcock
has established a de-Nazification Board
with a chairman selected by him. The
Internal Affairs Branch, of G-5, USFET,
and’ the major interest in a German
enterprise, that USFET body, when
affected, will be represented. on the
Board. Likewise, where.a security inter-
est is involved, CIB, G-2, will have its
representation.

This Board. will consider all requests,
submitted by detachments or represent-

17

atives of using services, for appoint-
ment and reinstatement of Nazis whose
ouster or exclusion from positions of
importance in German life aré made
mandatory by the 7 July directive. All
applications will be decided by a
majority vote. In case of a tie, the final
decision will rest with the Assistant
Chief of Staff, G-5.

Increased Housing Needed
in Bremen

NOTICE was served on officials of
the Chamber of Commerce and of the
German Civil Billeting Office in Bremen
by Detachment E2C2 that they must
take immediate and aggressive steps.to
provide increased housing facilities in.
the city. It_was pointed out that there
were 32,000 people in the city inade-
quatély housed and that returning PWs
would swell this figure to 70,000 by fall.

The officials were warned that Mili-
tary Government would only advise and
regulate German activities, and that the
civil authorities themselves would be
held responsible for providing the
needed housing. They were. informed
that Military Government was doing
everything it could to provide food,
fuel and building materials, and that
these efforts would be continued.
Additional housing, it was stated, now
has first priority in the rehabilitation
program.

Graves Service to Locate Bodies

THE Graves Registration Service
Command has been assigned the mission
of -conducting a systematic search
throughout Germany for deceased US
military personnel who have not been
buried in US Military Cemeteries.

Col John D. Edmunds, commanding

--- Page 21 ---
officer of the GRSC, USFET, ‘announced
recently that his command’ would co-
ordinate its work with Military Govern-
ment detachments, in an effort to locate
the. unknown, . number, of. .American
soldiers who were interred by the Ger-
man Army or“by- others in isolated
graves or communal cemeteries. The
Graves Registration teams will provide
disinterment, identification, evactiation
and reburial -in ‘established. Military
cemeteries. :

The GRSC, said Col. Edmutids, will
request Military Government detach-
ments to assist in providing newspaper
notices and in distributing posters to
request the German people to report
such information.

Ease Religious Bulletin Ruling

OFFICIAL religious bulletins of limit-
ed scope have been exempted from the
licensing provisions laid down by ICD,
and may now be published merely upon
registration with Mil Gov authorities,
it was announced recently by Head-
quarters, USFET.

The education and religious affairs
officer of each Regierungsbezirk and
the District Information Services Con-
trol Command will aprove the regist-
ration and will inspect the copy of the
first issue of each proposed bulletin be-
fore publication. Additional issues of the
publication will also be under* the
scrutiny of the education and_ reli-
gious affairs officer.

Religious bulletins are permitted to
contain only calendars of church ser-
vices and events, liturgical instructions
to clergy and lay members, notices of
births, deaths and marriages, and Mil
Gov announcements and orders affect-
ing the church.

“18

“On the negative ‘'side;' it was’ stated
that’ the. publications would -not- be
allowed to include news stories of any
nature, editorials reflecting comments
on public affairs, sermons, paid com-
mercial advertising, and pastoral letters,
encyclicals and similar official com-
munications from the religious hier-
archy. It was pointed out, however, that
the latter restriction should not be con-
strued as an official ban against: the
publication of: pastoral letters, encycli-
cals, etc., but merely that communicat-
ions of this nature should not appear,
for the time being, in unlicensed official
church bulletins. ;

In addition to the supervision by the
education and religious affairs officer,
copies of the first issue, and thereafter
copies of the first issues for each
succeeding three month period must be
submitted through channels to the Re-
ligious Affairs Branch, Public Health
and Welfare Division, USFET, and
through District Information Control
units to ICD, USFET.

Only US Flag to Fly in US Zone

IN A letter to the commanding
generals of the Eastern and Western
Military Districts, Brigadier General R.
B. Lovett, Adjutant General, USFET,
announced that the national flag of the
United States will be flown in the US
Zone in Germany at all Military Gov-
ernment headquarters and _ military
courts.

No other national flag, stated the
directive will be flown over these
establishments in the US Zone. The
order was issued on 8 August 1945 and
supersedes all other previous instruc-
tions.

--- Page 22 ---
Priority. to: Housing and Feeding

“IN AN order to the military districts

in the US Zone of occupation, General
Dwight D. Eisenhower announced that

the. establishment of training areas
which would involve the evacuation of
German civilians from their houses or
the removal of land from cultivation
will not -be undertaken without special
approval from Headquarters, USFET.

The order, dated August 10, stated
that the evacuation of the German civil
population or the removal of. arable
land from. cultivation is not considered
essential to training, particularly for
range firing by US troops, inasmuch
as such measures will only serve further
to aggravate the housing and feeding
problems facing Germany.

19

- All possible alternatives, said the
order, will be exhausted before re-
questing such approval.

Germans Approved for MG
Switchboards

In order to relieve the shortage of
experienced telephone and. telegraph
operators, German civilians may now
be used in:-these capacities, after they
have been cleared for such duty by Mil -
Gov and. CIC, according to G-2, USFET.

However, as in the past, .all switch-
boards will be carefully monitored to
maintain telephone security, in accord-
ance with Section X, Part D, Standard
Operating Procedure No. 66, Hq USFET,
dated 8 July 1945.

--- Page 23 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

German Moral Rearmament Demanded

THE record of Nazi-led Germany as
to atrocities, ruthlessness, and_ inter-
national misdeeds is a little bit too
overwhelming for the “guiltless” Ger-
man — i. e., the average German -— to
pass off with equanimity. To restore
his moral balance somewhat and to
forget his own guilt, he loves to point
out what he deems to be faults in the
Allied: moral armor. To counter the
awful revelations, still uncomfortably
fresh in his mind, of the concentration
camps, one prominent German, in an
early exhibition of his newly acquired
right of free speech, complained that
during the period when tens of
thousands of prisoners were being
rounded up daily the Allies had not
lived up strictly to the Geneva Convent-
ion in providing for their physical
comfort. Another German, not so pro-
minent but just as typical, has taken up
moral rearmament in a big way. He
declares that, as his main mission in life,
he is going to catalogue what he con-
siders American occupational misdeeds”
of a personal or policy nature; then
some day — and he feels sure the day
will come— he will present his cata-
logue as proof that the Germans of
1933-45, who admittedly but “un-
knowingly” sanctioned the most hor-
rible inhumanities imaginable, were not
morally inferior to the victors after all.

Redirection of Youth

THE vital necessity of giving new
direction to German youth is univer-
sally recognized, and Mil Gov officers
are meeting with various clerical and
lay officials to explore this problem

20

which requires the application of much
reflective thought. One serious Pro-
testant layman stresses as vital that

.whatever form of Youth Movement the

Allies sponsor or permit, it must be
completely divorced from national or
State support or direction. The restora-
tion of any attachment to the State or
idea of the State would be fatal, he
believes. A high Catholic cleric of the
Rhineland, in explaining his Church’s
desire to organize youth along parish
and diocesan lines, agrees that the
national pattern of the pre-Hitler period
should not be restored but. thinks that

‘some coordination on a_ nation-wide

basis might be necessary.

The Protestant layman above-men-
tioned urges that our Boy Scout move-
ment be adopted and adapted for
Germany. He has remained very much
impressed by his observations of our
Scout organization made while ona
prolonged visit to the United States
before the war. In his opinion our
Scout creed would provide just the
moral idealism which should be impart-
ed to German youth. He was particu-
larly anxious to stress the importance
of inculcating German youth with that
quality so often and so tragically want-
ing in the personal and_ national
dealings of Germans the Anglo-Saxon
sense of fair-play. His advocacy of the
plan goes so far as to include the recom-
mendation that the activating phase
be guided by imported American Scout
leaders and that potential German Scout
leaders be trained by them. He is in
favor of having the organization de-
velop on a confessional basis and
believes that the respective churches

--- Page 24 ---
~ Anti-naziaction

would prove adequate to their task.
Schools, being of necessity State
agencies, should be kept out of the
picture.

Revolutionary Spirit?

IT HAS been the practically un-
animous opinion of Allied — observers
that the German public at the time of
the military collapse was dripping with
apathy which was the outward mani-
festation of an almost complete paraly-
sis of their political nerve centers.
groups appeared in
many sections but their political direc-
tion was usually local and personal and

showed but faint signs of being imbued’

with a truly revolutionary spirit. One
German sociologist, however, insists
that such a spirit did exist and had great
potentialities. It had been a genuine
power behind the 20 July plot and,
although that battle had been lost, it
was still an important potential force
when the Hitler regime fell to pieces.
He complains that the appearance of
Mil Gov on the scene froze a confused
social situation at a time when the Ger-
man people would have accomplished a
genuine social revolution on their own
initiative. Having thus established Mil
Gov’s share in the responsibility for
shackling this "vibrant revolutionary
spirit in Germany” (along with the
failure of the July plot and the conse-
quent lengthening of the war), the social
scientist in question adds that if the
economic status of the country ‘should
sink to a critical -state a wave of
reactionary nationalism (not commu-
nism) might be expected.

The basis for this phantom social re-
volution was provided, says this socio-
logist, by the proletarianization of the
middle classes by the war in general

21

and by the air raids in particular, and
the consequent blurning of class lines.
Has he forgotten the type of German
*social revolution” that really did fol-
low the’ much more general prolet-
arianization of the middle classes: that
resulted from the inflation of the early
twenties and the depression of the early
thirties?

The Rumor Factory Explodes

IN. AN editorial entitled ”Solidarity”
the Frankfurter Rundschau addresses
those Germans who let themselves be
used as ’voluntary and unpaid agents
of an idiotic Nazi whisper-campaign,”
and continues: What stupid and foolish
chatter one has heard in recent weeks
of the development of international
politics. A conflict between the United
States and the Soviet Union was just in
the offing and dates were even mention-
ed when the Russians would march again
and the Americans would evacuate the
zones they occupied. This whisper-
propaganda of the Nazis reached its
culmination in the supposed differences
between the Soviet Union and the other
Allied Powers. Here there rose and
still rises the most penetrating stench
from the corpse of Hitler-Fascism and
its late propaganda minister. They had
hoped to the last that these differences
would work for them, in order that
they could eke out their dismal political
and physical existence a while longer.
What folly, for one to make himself
a medium for spreading this whisper-
campaign »..”". The editorial. then
points to the Soviet. declaration of war
on Japan as an event of world-political
significance which effectively finishes
this type of rumon-mongering. ”The
solidarity of the Allies,” it comments
simply, doesn’t exist merely on paper.”

--- Page 25 ---
LESSONS FROM OPERATIONS

SURVEILLANCE FOR NAZIS

REGENSBURG Mil Gov Detachment
F1D3 has instigated a system whereby
a person, after once having been
removed from office because of Nazi
activities, is kept under surveillance for
any. possible -future underground. con-
nection. In addition to a Fragebogen,
the subject is fingerprinted in accord-
ance with the system now being carried
out by the FBI in the US. A picture of
the individual is also obtained and goes
with the case record. Follow-up checks
by special investigators are conducted
every two weeks. The detachment not
only maintains a case file on all individ-
uals in this category, but also has a
card index file which gives in abbrevi-
ated form a complete list of the per-
tinent information. This system, accord-
ing to the detachment, provides a
constant security check upon dismissed
personnel.

LANDRAT ISSUES BULLETIN
“DETACHMENT E1H2 reports that
the Landrat at New-Ulm issues a weekly
bulletin’ to the local Burgermeisters
containing Mil Gov. information and
instructions.

FRANKFURT NURSES REGISTER

THE Frankfurt Health Department
has been directed by Detachment E1D2
to announce by newspaper and radio
the compulsory registration of all
nurses, regardless of creed. The meas-
ure, which it is hoped, will alleviate a
critical shortage, will subject nurses to
duties in hospitals and in public health

22

work. Similar registration will
undertaken throughout the Enclave.

be

REGISTRATION UNSUCCESSFUL

IN MUNICH, Detachment F1F3 stated
that the city-wide registration was
unsuccessful for the purposes of the
Welfare Department because the regis-
tration papers failed to provide a
space showing from which city or area
the person originally came. This would
have helped enormously in returning
the refugees to their respective zones,
whether or not they: were willing to
leave Munich.

NATIONALS TO REPORT

AMERICANS, including nationals of
all North and South American countries
now residing in Frankfurt, have been
ordered by Detachment E1D2 to submit
a comprehensive report as to their
activities during the past six years, a
list of all documents substantiating their
claim to nationality, and a statement as
to what they wish to do in the future.

RESTORE BREMEN PARKS

IN ORDER to clean up and restore
the parks and public gardens in Bremen,
Detachment E2C2 addressed a call to
boys between the ages of 12 and 16 to
register for work. Listed as a civic
duty, the boys were put to work under
the direction of school personnel.

PROTECTING MONUMENTS
CIVIL and religious agencies were
directed by Detachment FIF3 to as-

--- Page 26 ---
semble crews at all important monu-
ments to store fragments of masonry,
and statuary within the buildings and
sites. This was done so that important
and salvagable monuments would not
be additionally damaged by US Army
engineers, who are beginning work on
the removal of debris from Munich.

RESTORE COMMUNICATIONS
AS A RESULT of several meetings with
Third Army signal personnel and the
‘close cooperation of the G—5 Section,
one of the biggest problems in the

operation of Mil Gov in Bavaria, com-
munication between the various detach-

ments, is being successfully solved.

A directive was published by Army,
reports Detachment E1F3, which places
the responsibility of installing com-
munications for Mil Gov detachments
throughout Bavaria on military com-
manders. In general, the plan provides
for telephone centrals at six key points
— Munich, Nuremberg, Ansbach, Wurz-
burg, Regensburg and Augsburg — and
lines from those centrals to the seperate
Kreise. The plan also provides for tele-
graph service to the Regierungsbezirk
detachments as well as to the major
Stadtkreis detachments. As the com-
prehensive plan is expected to take some
time before being realized, monthly
reports are required from _ military
commanders ‘on the progress attained.

INFORMANT SYSTEMS USED
INFORMANT systems established in
military labor service units continue to
pay dividends, says Oise Intermediate
Section, Com Zone. Although there has
been no widespread subversive activity
in any of these units, occassionally it

23

is necessary to remove individuals be-
cause of subversive tendencies.

DAILY MEETINGS HELD

IN AUGSBURG, the Mil Gov Detach-
ment holds daily meetings on policy
with the Biirgermeister and Landrat.
Preparations have been made for the
opening of an emergéncy school for
rapid basic training of middle and
higher German civilian officials. The
course will last for one month.

MIXED ADVISORY COUNCILS

ORDERS have been issued to the
Biirgermeisters and Landrat of Schwab

’ Miinchen to begin organizing advisory

councils whose political complexion will
be as mixed as possible.

RENTAL OF STORAGE FACILITIES

DETACHMENT 111D2 directed that
the Landrat of Friedberg’s office serve
‘as the contracting agency with civilian
food interests, farmer groups, and
similar organizations with regard to
rental of storage facilities in Wehr-
macht. warehouses.

POLITICAL INTELLIGENCE

”*DETACHMENTS generally do not
seem to realize the value and possibi-
lities of a political intelligence section
and but few understand the importance
of gathering information on com-
munity trends for use in planning Mili-
tary Government activities. Through
civilian ’investigators’ information can
be gathered on. the political leanings
of the population: what the average
German is thinking and talking about,

--- Page 27 ---
his complaints and his opinions with
respect to American occupation. Care-
fully selected individuals attached to a
Special Branch section could contribute
much valuable information about the
community, along with any other work
of an investigative nature which might
be assigned them. Persons could be used
to gather information about civil em-
ployees by checking the accuracy of
their Fragebogen and by following var-
ious leads and conferring with different
individuals. In the course of their work
they would pick up considerable in-
formation which, when brought to
headquarters and sifted, would’ furnish
interesting material for the detachment’s
weekly reports to higher headquarters.
Files could be retained on the local level
for .a study of trends and, at the same
time,such information coming. in from
the field weekly to Zone Headquarters
via Military District Detachments would
indicate political. developments
assist in shaping Military Government
policy.” ,

— Col. Henry Parkman, Jr., following
a recent USFET tour of inspection.

PWS RETURN TO. WORK

OF THE 3,612 discharged PWs who
returned to the Frankfurt area during
June, 760 were referred to jobs on the
day they reported for registration at
the Arbeitsamt. About 80. per cent of
these 760 workers were, according to
Detachment E1D2, distributed among
the following occupational groups:
agriculture, commercial and clerical

and -

24

construction, metal trades, transport-
ation and wood-working industries.

NOTORIAL FEE SET
THE chief judge of the Offenbach
Amtsgericht was instructed by Detach-
ment F2B2 to inform all notaries that
the maximum fee on Military Govern--
ment signature forms will be set at 2
RM per. signature.

REHABILITATION DEPARTMENT

DETACHMENT E1D2, Frankfurt, -re-
ports that a separate department has
been established in the Frankfurt mun-
icipal government whose responsibility
is the rehabilitation of homes in the
city. Among the functions of the depart-
ment will be the establishment of  pri-
orities for repair, and the coordination
of production of all construction
materials.

COLLECTING RUBBLE FOR AIR-STRIPS

PROCEDURE has been perfected by
Det. H2D2 in Hanau and 851st Aviation
Engineers for collection of rubble re-
quired for the foundation of a new air-
strip. The rubble will be obtained from
locations in Hanau recommended by the
City Engineer. German labor will be
used under military supervision, and
necessary transportation and equipment
will be furnished by the 851st. By this
plan the needed material for the con-
struction job will be obtained and at
the same time clearing of important
thoroughfares in the city will be ex-
pedited.

--- Page 28 ---
PRESS COMMENTS

Success of De-Nazification Emphasized

DE-NAZIFICATION by Mil Gov re-
mains one of the principal topics in the
US press, with emphasis being placed
on the success of the program to date.

A recent Associated Press dispatch to
the Philadelphia Bulletin states that the
de-Nazification of Germany is one of
the major tasks of G—5 Division,
USFET, and that considerably more
progress has been made. since V—E day
than is generally recognized. The Ameri-
cans, however, still lack a definite
policy on what disposition is to be made
of the mass of Hitler’s minions. The
dispatch quoted Brig. Gen. Clarence L.
Adcock, Assistant Chief of Staff, G—5,
USFET as saying that it is impossible
to put in jail everyone who was in the
Nazi party, unless it is first known
whether he was a "practicing Nazi, or
merely a dues-paying member.”

For the present, said the General,
known Nazi leaders are being jailed, as
well as the more objectionable mem-
bers, but full lists are not yet available.
The article estimates that some 70,000
Nazi war criminals and SS personnel
are being held in jail in the US Zone
until such time as a final decision is
reached as to their individual dis-
position. In the mean time, Mil Gov
authorities are weeding out of German
civil life tens of thousands of Nazi
leaders and other dangerous elements.

AN. Y. Herald Tribune story filed
from Frankfurt on July 30th by Carl
Levin says that a ’firm directive order-
ing elimination of remaining Nazis and

25

militarists from all offices and positions
of importance in quasi-public and
private enterprises” has been given to
Mil Gov officers for information and
study. This directive, says Levin, is the
most important part of an over-all
order laying down the latest instruc-
tions for the control of German ter-
ritory under American occupation.

The most striking part of this direc-
tive is its-elimination of ”administrative
necessity, convenience or expediency”
as reasons for appointing or retaining
Nazis. All those, continues the dispatch,
‘who at any time were officers or non-
coms in any of the German military,
political, social, communal or affiliated
organizations are to be sacked, in-
cluding all members of the Schutz-
staffel (Elite’ Guard). The order also
lists for removal those German civil
servants who, although perhaps not
active Nazis, survived the Hitler purge.
The greatest tightening up, says Levin,
will be among those who were officers
in chambers of commerce and other
business groups, or who were officers

in any concern in which the Reich at
any time since 1933 had an actual or
working control.

Mil Gov Policy — Pro and Con

CRITICISM of Mil Gov policy was
contained in a recent editorial written
for PM, New York, from Wiesbaden,
by Victor H. Bernstein, in the form of
an ”Open letter to the President from
Inside Germany.” The writer says that

--- Page 29 ---
*many of us feel so tragically disap-
pointed in the development of American
policy in Germany,” and charges that
this policy is not only working no
progress , but is steadily progressing
to the point where our share of Ger-
many will have become a faithful re-
plica of the Germany of 1932 — the
Germany that spawned Hitler and the
World War. Bernstein cites as evidence
the kind of Germans we are putting
back into power — men who turned
against Hitler only when their assis-
tance was no longer needed — and the
whole atmosphere which is beginning
to develop in this zone.

HOLDING HANDS

The Western Democracies, he states,
are playing the old game of holding
hands with their enemies and kicking

their friends in the teeth. The Ameri-~

‘cans are running Germany as if it were
simply a matter of making trains run
and re-opening grocery stores. The
editorial advocates lifting the present
ban on political activity, except among
the tainted groups, and throwing the
weight on the side of the most demo-
cratic forces. Unless a democratic Ger-
many can be rebuilt, says Bernstein, the
only alternatives are to kill 60,000,000
Germans or permit the growth of
another Fascist Reich.

Further criticism along these same
lines was the theme of a St. Louis Post
Dispatch story of July 23 to the effect
that, since the surrender, we have
pursued in Germany a pattern of con-
duct-that discourages and repudiates
the very thing we said we were figthing
for. Our policy, it charges, bans all
political activity, all mass meetings, all
organizations of anti-Nazi action
groups, all editorial use of press or

26

radio — "everything, in short, that
might help Germans to think freely
along Democratic lines.”

FORCED UNDERGROUND

This policy is described as leaving
many lesser Nazi officials in office be-
cause of "non-political, and therefore
haphazard, screening procedures,” and
of forcing underground what anti-
Facist elements were able to survive
Hitler’s rule. "How can we make as effi-
cient a democracy as possible,” it
editorializes, "as long as we give the
people nothing to work with?” The
tools are there, it claims: press, radio,
trade. unions, old anti-Fascist parties
awaiting rebirth, new ones struggling
to be born and educational institutions
ready to be opened.

Mil Gov ‘is charged with ignoring
these channels for establishing a demo-
cratic Germany, and of playing directly
into the hands of those same reaction:
ary elements which prepared the soil
for Fascism, as was previously done in
North -Africa, Sicily and Italy. The
tools are there, it claims: press, radio,
trade unions, old anti-Fascist parties
awaiting rebirth, new ones struggling
editorial calls for a policy in Germany
”infused with the principles of dynamic,
American democracy.”

Exactly the opposite point of. view
is taken by Sumner Welles,. former
Under Secretary of State, in an article
appearing in the Washington Post of
Juliy 27, entitled "German Re-education
Would Postpone Political Activity.”
Mr. Welles discusses at length the
measures taken by the Soviet Govern-
ment in the fostering of German
political activity throughout the Russian
Zone, and the sanctioning of newspaper

--- Page 30 ---
and radio activities on the part of the
Germans. Commenting that neither
the Americans nor the British have so
far permitted any political activity in
their zones, Mr. Welles states that a
number of editorial writers and radio
commentators in the US are vehemently

demanding that we follow the Russian
example.

Some people, he points out, -are of
the opinion that all Russian policies are
desirable and should invariably be
followed by us. Mr. Welles is convinced,
however, ”that the policy so far pursued
within the US Zone is not only wise,

but essential as a matter of future
security, and that course should be
persisted in for some time.” Asserting

that we must appraise the situation in
Germany more closely, he points out
that as yet there have been no trials
of war criminals, that there has been
very little done to purge Nazi party
members from the professional, in-
dustrial and financial life of the coun-
try and that Germany is confronted
with a winter of acute shortages in
food, fuel and raw materials.

Therefore, argues Mr. Welles, how
could it help future German democracy
if political parties are set up before the
people understand who among them
were responsible for the war? Is it
desirable that parties be established be-
fore assurance can be had that Nazis
will not try to infiltrate into the new
structure? What chance is there for a
healthy political life if it is born at a
time when the German people are not
only shell-shocked but cold, under-
nourished and unemployed?

Under all these conditions, therefore,
how is it conceivable that the German
people can build up political parties for

27

the furtherance of desirable ideals, or
which can advance the establishment
of a true and peaceful democracy in
Germany? Mr. Welles instists emphatic-
ally that the US went to war to
preserve American liberties and to
crush Hitlerism and German militarism,

not to liberate the German people, who

as yet are not ready for the privilege
of self-government.

Food for Stability

FULL recognition of the importance
of food as a factor in the stability of
post-war Europe is currently being
evidenced by the Allied press. Pointing
out that the instincts of humanity call
on us to succor the famished, the Lon-
don News-Chronicle warns that "relief
is as much a political necessity as it is
a humane policy. Food, fuel and clothes
are the first requirements of stable gov-
ernment, of ordered progress and of
peace.” Declaring that there can be no
doubt of the response of the warm-
hearted people of Britain and America,
once they understand the full serious-
ness of Europe’s plight, the News-
Chronicle stressed the fact that ”con-
stant enligthenment about the true cond-
itions are all-important in this crusade.”

The real food problem in Western
Europe, the National City Bank Bul-
letin pointed out in a review of the
European food situation, ’comes down
to the 75,000,000 urban dwellers, includ-
ing about 20,000,000 under 15 years of
age, badly in need of milk and other
protective foods, for whom emergency
supplies will be required.

”*Some means must be found either
to reopen former channels of distri-
bution, blocked by transportation break-

--- Page 31 ---
downs or political barriers, or to find
new sources of supply, if pre-war diet-
ary standards are to be restored. And
it is clear that since the need is urgent
and both ocean and inland transport
facilities limited, emphasis must be on
those staples which supply greatest
food value per ton, which means cereals,
sugar fats and oils.”

Comments Chosen at Random

”*SHORN of their slick black uniforms
‘and all insignia except rank, the ’sup-
ermen’ remove tons of brick, concrete
and wood from sidewalks and streets
of the city. SS might now well stand
for Sad Sack and not Schutz Staffel.”
— Frank Waters, in the Stars and
Stripes.

“LIKE most cities of its size, Offen-—

bach had left its imprint on the cultural
and industrial history of Germany in
the world, and ended up a defeated
city being governed by a Virginia super-
intendent of schools, a North Dakota
sheriff, a young Queens schoolmaster,
and a Jew from the Bronx who fled
Vienna in 1938... One would think
that chaos would be the rule in this
city now, but it isn’t. A lot of improvis-
ation is necessary, and spot decisions
have to be made without adequate

28

directives from higher commands. But
the city is functioning smoothly.”
Carl Levin, in the New York Herald
Tribune.

THE colonel says that more than
3,100 local business establishments have
been reopened in Frankfurt, and he
ought to know, but frankly it’s hard
to see where. That must be counting
a one-man cobbler shop or a chimney
sweep as a business, but anyhow that’s
what it says here... This is a good
Mil Gov job, and is evidently the offi-
cial British-American pattern. The men
who are doing it have no observations
to offer as to its long-range probabil-
ities. The policies were set by someone
above them; they’re merely obeying
orders.” — Bill ‘Cunningham, in the
Boston Herald.

MIL Gov is putting into effect a
gratifying new directive, authorizing
the drafting for ‘undersirable work’ of
Nazis dismissed from former jobs.
Yesterday I saw a handful of bankers,

lawyers, doctors, and clerks hauling
rubble, stacking bricks and digging

ditches on an unsarvory sewer project.
Those to whom I spoke all professed
outraged dignity, which made the
occasion even more gratifying.”
Victor H. Bernstein. in P. M.

--- Page 32 ---
QUERIES

UNRRA and Mil Gov

Q. WHAT will be the future respon-
sibility of UNRRA and the Military for
Displaced Persons?

A. The Military will give maximum
responsibility to UNRRA for the oper-
ation of displaced persons installations
by 1 October, 1945. UNRRA teams will
operate all installations, arranging for
food, accommodations, medical services,
welfare, and registration for repatri-
ation or resettlement. The Military will
remain responsible for essential supplies
of food, clothing, fuel and housing
accommodations, for security guards,
for communication facilities and for
truck, train and air transport required
for repatriation or resettlement moves,
as well as for gasoline for UNRRA
trucks and food, clothing, and accom-
modations for UNRRA team and ad-
ministrative personnel.

Public Relations

Q. IS THERE any Mil Gov Public
Relations plan and procedure for det-
achments in the field?

A. Yes. Each local detachment com-
mander is expected to name himself as
PRO, in addition to other duties, or to
designate one of his assisting officers.
In both the Third and Seventh Armies,
the ACOS, G—5, with the cooperation
of the Army Public Relations Officer and
the G-5 Public Relations Branch at Head-
quarters, USFET, is re-assigning officers
trained in Mil Gov and who are former
newspapermen to serve as G—5. PROs
at Regional Detachments, at Regie-

29

rungsbezirk Detachments, and at Army
Press Camps. They will make frequent
contacts with local detachments to stim-
ulate a free and prompt flow of con-
structive, positive Mil Gov news. Within
a few weeks it is expected that each
of the two ECAD Regiments, now being
assigned to the two Military Districts
of the US zone, will have Public Relat-
ions Sections of trained officers and
enlisted personnel to facilitate a com-
plete coverage of the zone and_ help
newspaper and magazine correspond-
ents obtain Mil Gov news promptly.

The Reichspost

Q. WHAT is the present policy regard-
ing the reopening of Reichspost serv-
ices and when may the resumption be
expected?

A. The general policy is to have the
Reichspost restore its services as quickly
as practicable for military, govern-
mental, and general civilian uses.

Local telephone service has been
authorized by USFET, subject to cond-
itions and restrictions as determined
by military authorities. Inter-city
telephone service is being limited tem-
porarily to governmental and essential
civilian use. This service can be expand-
ed only gradually because of lack of
facilities. Telegraph service for general
civilian use is now under study.

Intra-city postal service is reopen-
ing quite generally. Inter-city service,
on the other hand, is still on a limited
scale, due largely to a lack of trans-
portation. It is expected that intercity
service will be expanded both as to

--- Page 33 ---
types of messages and distances as the
organization is perfected and _ trans-
portation facilities are increased. Postal
financial services are to be re-intro-
duced as promptly as practicable.
General inter-zone and international
services will be reopened only after
proper coordination with the three
other Allied occupying powers. It is
expected that some of these services
may be started within a few months.

Extradition of Criminals

Q. WHAT is the policy of Mil Gov
on the extradition of criminals other
than war criminals from occupied Ger-
many to countries of United Nations?

A Pending the adoption of a perman-
ent procedure by the Allied Control
Council, the Theater Commander, as
an interim measure designed to avoid
the charge that criminals are being
harbored in the US Zone, will order
extradition under the following condit-
ions:

1. That the request has been made by
the government concerned and not
merely by a local official.

2. That the person is charged with a
serious ‘offense.

3. That sufficient evidence is present-
ed to establish a prima facie caée.

4. That the person requested is not
under sentence or subject to pending
charges in the US Zone.

5. That each case must be decided on
its own merits and in no instance be
considered as constituting a precedent
with respect to the general policy of
extradition.

If the request comes from a respons-
ible source and a grave offense is

30

charged, local Mil Gov authorities
should place the person in custody and
forward the request and supporting
documents to the Theater Commander
for action. :

Local Trade Unions

Q. HOW much liaison may local trade:
unions have with each other? Are there
any corresponding limitations on em-
ployers’ associations and chambers of
commerce?

A. Liaison between local trade unions
is ‘permitted and encouraged. Such
liaison probably will be permitted also
in the case of employers’ associations
and chambers of commerce. These latter
will be voluntary local associations of
a purely advisory character; subsequent-
ly they will be organized also at the
Land level.

U.S. Consular Offices

Q. WHERE are U. S. Consular offices
established in the US Zone?

A. Consular offices will eventually be
established in Frankfurt, Bremen, Stutt-
gart and Munich. It is expected that the
office in Frankfurt will be the first one
to be set up. These offices will handle
claims to US citizenship and the pro-
tection of private US interests in their
respective areas.

German Silver Coins

Q. Are German silver coins required
to be deposited under Military Govern-
ment Law 53?

A, Yes. This law specifially requires
the delivery of gold and silver coins.

--- Page 34 ---
PERSONAL DATA

Awards
LEGION OF MERIT

Capt Benjamin“Halprin, Sv Co, ECAD
2nd Lt Louis Chary, Det F1B3
M/Sgt Robert S. Journell, Hq, ECAD

BRONZE STAR

Lt Col Norton V. Coyle, Hq, ECAD
Maj William L. Powers, Hq, ECAD

Maj Frank A. Sawyer, R&T Bn, ECAD

Maj Arthur M. Corey, Hq, ECAD
Capt Albert H. Ellis, Hq, ECAD

CROIX DE GUERRE — PALM
Col H. McE Pendleton, Hq, ECAD

Promotions
TO CHIEF WARRANT OFFICER

WOJG Charles C. Ammlung, DS SHAEF
WOJG Victor B. Engel, Det H2G3

TO FIRST SERGEANT
TiSgt Leslie A. Troxell, Sv Co, ECAD

TO TECHNICAL SERGEANT

S/Sgt Robert D. Bigler, Sv Co, ECAD
S/Sgt Joseph Sidoti, Sv Co, ECAD
T/3 Roger D. Grow, Hq, ECAD

T/3 John J. Hemphill, lst ECA Accnt Det

TO STAFF SERGEANT

T/4 King A. Bentley, Hq, ECAD

Sgt George E. Lally, Det E2C2

Cpl Geeorge W. Walbush, Sv Co, ECAD

T/3 John V. Ryan, Hq, ECAD

T/3 Judd W. Lewis, Jr., Hq, ECAD

T/l4. Freeman W. Greene, Ist ECA
Accnt Det

Tl4 George B. Rogers, Ist ECA Accnt
Det

TO TECHNICIAN THIRD GRADE

Sgt Arthur A. Salewske, Sv Co, ECAD
T/5 Hugo C. Magistrelli, Sv Co, ECAD

T/4 Lester A. Dauberman, Hq, ECAD
Sgt Vincent J. Bosak, Hq, ECAD
T/4 Richard H. Bevis, Hq, ECAD
T/4 William P. Conn, Jr., Hq, ECAD

TO SERGEANT
T/5 Rocco R. Monto, RR Det, ECAD

TO TECHNICIAN FOURTH GRADE

T/5 Harold E. Arca, Hq, ECAD

T/5 Chauncey L. Darone, Jr., Hq, ECAD

Cpl Richard G. Solecki, Det E2C2

Ti5 Ray P. Gagnon, Det E2C2

Cpl James O. Bechham, Hq, ECAD

Cpl Gerald E. Tarvin, Hq, ECAD

T/5 Lucian Signorelli, Hq, ECAD

T/5 William J. Gallagher, Hq, ECAD

Ti5 Louis A. Santucci, 1st ECA Accnt
Det

Ti5 Raymond H. Taft, 1st ECA Accnt Det

Ti5 Ernest V. Talbot, Ist ECA Accnt Det

TO CORPORAL

Pfc Oscar H. Carter, Hq, ECAD

Pfc Lawrence W. Wagner, Hq, ECAD
T/5 Holmes A. Dutrow, Hq, ECAD
Ti5 Paul B. Johnson, Hq, ECAD
T/5 Loren H. Kinney, Hq, ECAD

TO TECHNICIAN FIFTH GRADE

Pfc Joseph J. Jiricek, Hq, ECAD

Pfc Clarence J. Smith, Det E2C2

Pfc George Lottenberg, RR Det (Fiscal
Survey) .

Pfc Walter J. Lilie, Hq, ECAD

' Pfc Robert M. Cope, Hq, ECAD

31

Pre Lawrettce J. Robertson, Sv Co, ECAD

Pfc Willie C. Driggers, Sv Co, ECAD

Pfc Edward J. Miller, Sv Co, ECAD

Pfc William F. Isabell, Sv Co, ECAD

Pfc Frank S. Olockwoszcz, Sv Co, ECAD

Pfc Marvin Rosner, Hq, ECAD

Pfc William C. Brunsell, Hq, ECAD

Pfc Eugene Garner, Hq, ECAD

Pfc William H. Reynolds, Jr., Hq, ECAD

Pvt Billy H. Clampett, Hq, ECAD

Pvt Howard M. Hills, 1st ECA Accent
Det

--- Page 35 ---
TO PRIVATE FIRST CLASS

Pvt Alvin H. Durham, Det 14C2

Pvt Carl W. Nusarra, Det H4B3

Pvt Joseph D. Newton, Det FIE2
Pvt John E. Werner, Hq Co, 2nd ECAR

Returned to the States

Col. Egbert D. Brown, Hq, 2nd ECAR

Lt Col John E. Shield, Det E1B3

.Lt Col Harry D. Stone, Det. E1D2

Maj Raymond M. Davis, Det E1C2

Maj Thomas V. Dixon, Hq Ist ECAR

Maj John B. Fenner, G-5, USFET

Capt Ernest Gelles, G-5, USFET

Capt Virgil O. Powell, DP-16

Capt James E. Stearns, Det 13B3

MI/Sgt Chester Rice, Det E1A2

USgt Oscar C. Lynch, Det F1D3

l/Sgt Albert C. McGlocklin, R&T Bn,
ECAD

T/Sgt Harold Berge, ECA Med Gp

TiSgt William L. Christman, Det A1A1

T/Sgt Eugene C. Harrold, Det H6B3

T/Sgt Carmine J. Lucca, Det I6B3

T/Sgt Louis D. McKie, Det H4G3

T/Sgt Robert O. Nelson, ECA Med Gp

T/Sgt Carl L. Thomas, Det 122E3

S/Sgt James A. Cannon, Det’ I1E2

S/Sgt Joseph J. Fredy, Hq, Co A, 3rd
ECAR

S/Sgt Robert J. Hartman, ECA Med Gp

S/Sgt Lowell A. Hibbard, Hq, ECAD

S/Sgt Michael Marx, Det I1C3

S/Sgt Maurice Rosenberg, Det I17C2

S/Sgt Keith H. Thompson, Hq &.Co, 2nd
ECAR

SiSgt Bernard R. Valind, Hq, Co D, 3rd
ECAR

S/Sgt Richard L. Woods, Det 120A3

Tec 3 John E. Carpenter, Det E1A2

Tec 3 Frank M. Gillot, ECA Med Gp

Tec 3 Elwood M. Hansen, Det I8G2

Tec 3 Charles F. Montgomery, I7E2

Tec 3 Willard E. Nelson, Sv Co ECAD

Tec 3 Frank A. Grosz, ECA Med Gp

Tec 3 Paul Opperer- Det F2B2

Tec 3-Chester L. Wolfe, R & T Bn, ECAD

Sgt Raymond J. Kuhn, R& T Bn, ECAD

Sgt Edward G. Larrives, ECA Med Gp

Sgt Richard T. Strange, ECA Med Gp

Tec 4 Dwight C. Austin, ECA Med Gp

Tec 4 Chick W. Hagan,-Hq Co C 2d
ECAR

Tec 4 George L. Rutherford; Hq Co F
3d ECAR

Tec 4 Reinhardt F. Seebach, Hq, ECAD

Cpl Gerald H. Atwell, Det F2G2

Cpl Robert F. Cookman, Hq Co B 2d
ECAR

Cpl Harold L. Fasse, Det A2L1

Cpl Harvey O. Lipscomb, Hq Co C 2d
ECAR

Cpl William J. Murphy, Det G1C2

Cpl Warren B. Pattison, Hq: Co,
ECAR

Tec 5 Neil Beck, Hq.Co, ‘3d ECAR

Tec 5 Joseph K. Cass Ill- Det H2C3

Tec 5 Harry B. Kingsford, Hq Co, 3d
ECAR

Tec 5 Charles J. Mayersky, Det H2A3

Tec 5 Robert H. Moultine, Hq Co, 3d
ECAR

Tec 5 Woodrow M. Schillo, Det H1A2

Tec 5 Stephen C. Shanley, E1G2

Tec 5 Walter J. Sowers, Hq Co,
ECAR

Tec 5 Raymond R. Tyner, Sv Co, ECAD

Tec 5 Philip E. Woodman, Hq Co, 3d
ECAR

Tec 5 Theodore M. Gionet, Hq Co B,

2d

3d

Tec 5 Clifford C. Johnson, Det A1A1

32

Tec 5 James C. Meisingahl, Hq Co D,
3d ECAR

Tec 5 Joseph A. Slominski, Hq Co, 2d
ECAR

Pfc Charles W. Ackerman, Det E2C2

Pfc Nathan Buchman, Hq Co G, 2d
ECAR

Pfc Larry J. Dauterive, Det I7A2

Pfc Ezra E. Fish, ECA Med Gp

Pfc James V. Jennings, Hq Co, 2d ECAR

Pfc Ottis Ladner, Det F1C3

Pfe Gustav A. Merting, Hq Co E, 2d
ECAR

Pfc Conley Moore, Hq Co B, 2st ECAR

Pfc Richard L. Popwell, Det 110G2

Pfc James H. Strickland, Hq, Co B, 1st
ECAR

Pfc Alva H. Trussell, Det 115G3

Pfc Frank S. Virga, Hq, Co B, Ist ECAR

Pfc Thomas A. Weick, R&T Bn, ECA

Pfc Ronald C. Wiles, R T Bn, ECA

Pfc Julien M. Dorfman, Det 11G2

Pfc Ernest D. McColskey, Det H4G3

Pvt John W. Rieves, ECA Cur Sec

--- Page 36 ---


--- Page 37 ---
