--- Page 2 ---
No. 7 — 8 SEPTEMBER 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF
G-5 DIVISION
USFET

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
RUSSIAN ZONE

CZECHO-

‘= AUTOBAHN
— MAIN ROUTES IST @ Z2ND CL
<-" DISTRICT ROAD IST CLASS

AUSTRIA

——SQURCE:_ G-5, USFET — STATISTICS _SECTIO
. + SEC GEN STAFF USFt

--- Page 4 ---
No. 7 — 8 SEPTEMBER 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN ©

OFFICE OF THE
ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF
G-5 DIVISION
USFET

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---
CONTENTS

PAGE
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY... 2... . 2... 3

Military Government Directives and Instructions Issued
this Week .

German Foreign Trade .

Presenting Military Government to the Press

Religion in Germany Today . . . . ...... Tf
Trade and Commerce Organized . ....... 14
Industry Branch Established . . . ...... . «14
GENERAL... ... ee 18
Local Mil Gov Conferences Scheduled . . ... . 16
Jewish Refugees Aided . . . . .. . 1 1... 16
Art Restitution Insured . 2. 1. 1 1. ww ee 18
GERMAN REACTIONS: ........... 47
Anti-Nazis and Food Control. . . . . 2... 1°. 17
A Plea for Heavy Industry. . . . 2... 1. 18
Trends in the Formulation of Political Programs . . . 18
LESSONS FROM OPERATIONS ....... : 20
PRESS COMMENTS ............ +. 24
Mil Gov Meeting Spurs Denazification . . . . . . 24
Military Government in Japan... . 1. 1. 25
Europe's Coal Problem... . . . . 1... 25
Nazi Stronghold? . ww. 2. 26
Merchants of Death . . . 2... 1... 26
Random. Comments . . . . . 2... ww. 26
QUERIES... 2... 2. ee. 28
PERSONAL DATA ............ . . 30

--- Page 6 ---
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

MILITARY GOVERNMENT DIRECTIVES AND
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED THIS WEEK

Each week, there will appear on this page a complete list
of directives and instructions issued to Military Government in
the field by G-5, USFET. This list is published for the informa-

tion of all field personnel.

Revision of Instructions to Financial Institutions No, 3
and Governmental Financial Agencies. To Eastern

‘and Western Military Districts . 2 . . . . 2 . 31 Aug 45

Seizure of Devisenstelle (Foreign Exchange Control
Office) Records. To Eastern and Western Military

Districts © 1 1 2 we ee 28 Aug 45

- AG Letter, Industry Divisions of German Economic

Offices. To all detachments. . . . . . . . . 31 Aug 45

Administration of Military Government in the US
Zone in Germany (Amendments to Sections 1 and 3)

To all detachments . . . . . 2... 27 Aug 45

AG Letter, Use of Technical Channels on Military

Government Matters. To all detachments... . . 24 Aug 45

Mil Gov Weekly Field Report, Hg, USFET. To all

detachments. . . 2. 2 1. 1. 1. 1. 1 Sept 45

--- Page 7 ---
German Foreign Trade — 1945

ON A cold, blustery March evening,
this year, a Military Government
detachment commander had _ wearily
closed his desk drawers after his second
hard day in his -’pin-pointed” Stadt-
kreis near the Remagen Bridgehead. As
was so often the case before V—E Day
brought a cessation to hostilities, the
dull boom of the 105’s over the low-
lying hills to the eastward contrasted
strangely with cattle grazing in a nearby
field, and with the hard, diligent peasant
folk, unmindful of the proximity of the
fighting, who were patiently preparing
their land for this year’s crops, as their
ancestors had. done for generations be-
fore them — in peace and in war.

A sound of voices in the hall outside,
and the sentry on duty admitted a
stranger. He was a Dutchman, from
over Maastricht way. How he had gotten
this far, no one bothered to determine.
His story, translated into English, was

simple and to the point. Those were his’

cattle in yonder field. Proof?—’Come,
Captain, let me show you the brand on
their hides. Look at these papers, all
in order, sworn before the good mayor
of my native city.” The Boches had
stolen these sleek cattle during their
stay in his community. They were his!

The Military Government officer, a
believer in swift and sure justice, a
square shooter, deeply wanting to right
wrong quickly where and when he
found it, was sympathetic. A further
check amid the fire-stained records of
the little German town, and the
questioning of local officials seemed to
corroborate the Dutchman’s story. The
next morning, the cattle, driven by the

happy Dutchman, returned to Holland.
Simple, wasn’t it?

Four months later, a group at USFET
Headquarters is seated around a table.
The meagre records of the transaction,
together with transcripts of hundreds
of similar cases, are spread in front of
them. ° A representative of France
speaks. "Ah, messieurs, those were
French cattle. Look, here is a brand
almost identical to the one described.”
A Belgian officer takes the floor.
”*Gentlemen, you have paid the Dutch
shepherd full value for his loss — all
his cattle were returned. But what
about this case of a Belgian farmer
near Houffalize? During the Battle of
the Bulge, all of his cattle were killed
by shells! Suppose, when reparations
are decided, my country can only pay
him one-tenth of the value of the claim!
Has there been fairness? Is that a square
deal?”

MANY COMPLEX PROBLEMS

This is only one example of the many
complex problems which are laid, daily,
on the doorstep of the Foreign Trade
Section of the Trade & Commerce
Branch. It is only one of a great many
apparently worthy cases in which a
country—one of the United Nation—has
made what apparently is a_ perfectly
justified request for the export of a
commodity from the United States
Zone of Germany.

A representative of the Czecho-
Slovakian Government appears at the
office of the Foreign Trade Section.
His country needs food. To grow crops,
it needs fertilizer, specifically potash.
And he knows where there is a supply

--- Page 8 ---
of potash — in the United States Zpne.
He proposes that his government pay
for it in Czecho-Slovakian Kronen. Ah,
but Kronen cannot, under existing re-
gulations, be brought into Germany.
But”, he replies, ” why not let us pay
as we did before the war, into a
clearing account?” It is pointed out
that Germans cannot engage in inter-
national financial transactions. Further-

“more, Kronen, as all other United
Nations currency standards, have no
definite foreign-exchange relation to
the mark. The deal is apparently
blocked.

A HAPPY THOUGHT

But a happy thought saves the
situation. The Czecho-Slovakians have
some little surplus brown coal. They
offer to exchange the coal for potash.
An investigation is made. If it is shown
that there is a surplus of potash in the
American Zone, and if brown coal is
necessary to realize the objectives of
the occupation, there is a fair chance
that the transaction may be consum-
mated — if transportation can be found.

A delegation arrives from France.
France, it is pointed out, needs loco-
motives to prevent, widespread hunger.
During the German occupation of
France, the Germans had ”requisition-
ed” ‘machines needed to fabricate loco-
motive parts. The machines are at Stutt-
gart. They still have the French manu-
facturer’s nameplate on them, and
French ownership is acknowledged by
the German proprietors of the factory
in which the machines are now located.
The Frenchmen have made a good case.
Investigation discloses that the machines
are not needed by the United States
army,.nor to support the minimum
economy of the United States Zone. The

French will probably get their machines
— and soon. Provided, that the French
Government agrees that eventual claim
to ownership is not prejudiced by the
transaction; and that, should the Re-
parations Commission so decide, -the
shipment may be considered a credit
against France’s reparations «claims
against Germany.

LAMPS FROM SWITZERLAND

A travelling salesman from a well-
known Swiss manufacturer of auto-
mobile lamps: is introduced. He has a
good product, at.a fair price. The lamps
are needed to complete the manufacture
of cars for use in the distribution of
food and other rationed commodities
in Germany. But he is too early.
Existing golicies prohibit trade between
Germany and any nations other. than
the United Nations. He is asked to re-
submit his proposition at a later date.

Many of these complications are due
to the transition period of re-adjust-
ment through which Germany is now
passing. The policies pertaining to
Foreign Trade consist, today, of those
laid down by the Joint Chiefs of Staff
prior to the end of the fighting, as
modified by the Potsdam Agreement.
The interpretation and implementation
of those policies is the task. of the
Quadripartite Control Council, in Ber-
lin. And it is one which is fraught with
many difficulties and with tremendous
portent to the future — the future of
Germany and of the World.

More rapid strides have been made
in the field of interzonal trade, for
which the Foreign Trade Section is also
responsible. Every effort is being made
to stimulate interzonal trade. The ob-
stacles are many. For reasons of

--- Page 9 ---
security, travel between the zones is
rigidly restricted, and communications
are poor or non-existent. Excessive ex-
portation of rationed and_ allocated
commodities out of the United States
Zone would not be economically sound.
However in spite of these handicaps,
interzqnal trade, particulary between
the United States and British and French
zones, is growing steadily.

Some. interesting problems of ’Front-
alier”” trade have come to the attention
of the Foreign Trade Section. By the
term ’Frontalier”, is meant a person,
living in close proximity to the frontier,
whose immediate livelihood depends on
frequent crossings of the frontier. These
problems range from the lady on one
side of the line who has, for years,
*swapped” surplus eggs with fhe farmer
across the border for surplus butter; to
the power plant, on the Czecho-Slova-
kian side, supplying power to com-
munities in both countries, depending

for,fuel and labor upon the German
side. Generally, when unnecessary hard-
ship of the local civilian populations
can be avoided by so doing, such
’Frontalier” trade is permitted.

To many observers, the rather ”horse-
drawn” procedure now being used in
the transaction of German Foreign
Trade business, appears clumsy and
slow. This point of view is probably
correct to a large degree. But it must
be remembered that the manipulations
of Foreign Trade and Foreign Exchange
constituted one of Germany’s most
powerful means of waging offensive
warfare. Only four months have elapsed
since the cessation of hostilities, after
five and one-half years of fighting. It
is wiser to procede slowly and with
caution, than to lower the bars to an
extent which might cause the United
Nations to lose control, too soon, of
this important aspect of German
economic life. :

Presenting Military Government to the Press

DIRECTIVES and memoranda about
Public Relations in Military Govern-
ment have emanated, after. prolonged
study, from Washington, from London,
from Versailles, from Rheims, from
Frankfurt, from Berlin, from Wies-
baden, from Munich, and from Heidel-
berg. There has been an _ imposing
succession of ‘them. But the nub of all-
the G—5 Public Relations policies and
procedures has been expressed best by
Lt General Clay.

He coined a new phrase at the vecent
three-day Military Government con-

ference at USFET- Headquarters. He
concentrated into an apt, descriptive,
easily digested capsule all the long-
winded sonorous instructions of before.
He conjured up his now famous phrase
about a gold-fish bowl:

Every one of the nearly 15,000 Mili-
tary Government personnel in the
American Zone and every one of the
corps of foreign correspondents writ-
ing for newspapers and magazines com-
prehended exactly the promise he was
conveying, especially to the American
public.

--- Page 10 ---
He said it is ’our endeavour over here
to live in a gold-fish bowl, and our
responsibility to the American people
demands that everything we do be
known about, whether it be error or
whether it be to our credit. The only
way we can do that is to place the facts
on the table.”

General Clay was speaking for others
as well as for himself. He was delineating
also’ the Public Relations policy for
Military Government of General Eisen-
hower, General Smith, and General
Adcock. He was virtually inviting news-
paper and magazine writers, radio
broadcasters, camera men and every
other accredited correspondent to
come, look at the work of Military
Government, listen, and then write about.
it freely.

NO HOCUS-POCUS

There is no longer any mystery, no

hocus-pocus, no top secret classification”

about the work of Military Govern-
ment. It is a job of exciting, paramount
interest to all peoples of the world. It
is especially important to Americans,
not only because several hundred thou-
sand soldiers are in Military. Govern-
ment and in the U.S. Army of Occu-
pation and whose service will be watched
back home by even more hundreds of
thousands of relatives and friends, but
it is important also because if this was
the war that ended all wars, then the
Military Government job of removing
Germany’s war potential forevermore
becomes the intimate, genuine, personal
concern of every citizen of America, of
his children and his childrens’ children.

The censorship of dispatches filed by
newspaper correspondents has about
ended. Moreover, their movements

throughout the United States Zone are
being facilitated. They are being en-
couraged to travel into the field and
observe Military Government in all its
phases and at all its levels of operations.

Many of the 284 local detachments

will be visited by newspaper and, maga-

zine correspondents during the coming
months. They will talk with many of the
detachment commanders and assisting
personnel. It is the policy of USFET and
USGCC to extend every possible assist-
ance to the writers.

A LIBERAL ATTITUDE

All this new liberal attitude toward the
men and women who are reporting Mili-
tary Government for the publications back
home has been growing definitely,
although at times slowly. Immediately
after V—E day on May 8 a new spirit
of even closer cooperative helpfulness
to the press was adopted, but it was
necessary for a few more weeks, be-
cause of JCS 1067 and because of the
impending Potsdam conference, to con-
tinue withholding a few but decreasing
number of Military Government activ-
ities from public knowledge. They were
top level matters of governmental poli-
cy to be arranged on an international
quadripartite basis. But now, the ob-
stacles have been removed deliberately.
Correspondents are being invited and
urged to cover the amazing, fascin-
ating and. thoroughly important story
of Military Government.

Let us examine briefly the Army’s
method of helping correspondents ob-
tain their news. The G—5 Division of
USFET Headquarters is the only one of
the general staff or special staff div-
isions that maintains a separate, di-
stinctive Public Relations Branch. This

--- Page 11 ---
is located in offices on the 6th floor of
USFET Headquarters at Frankfurt and
is headed by Lt. Col. Clarence E. Love-
joy, GSC, former Regular Army officer
and former New York newspaper man.
He is under the direct orders of General
Adcock. Colonel Lovejoy’s staff of
officers, enlisted men and WACs, most
of whom have worked on newspapers
before joining the Army, maintain the
closest possible contacts with all the
various branches and sections of the
G—5 Division. Each branch sends one
or two officers to a twice-a-week meet-
ing on Public Relations.

ACTIVITIES EXAMINED

Current and future activities of each
of the branches are constantly under
study so that timely stories can be
written, sometimes re-written, always
cleared with appropriate branch and
section chiefs and made available to the
newspapers and magazines. Customarily
four or five such stories are produced
every day, with most of the writing
done by the G—5 Public Relations staff
and most of the information coming
from the representatives of the branches
on the coordinating Public Relations
Committee.

What happens while the story is
being prepared and while it is being
made ready for correspondent ? Every
newspaper man wants facts, complete
and accurate. Therefore every story is
subjected to the test of who, why,
what, when, where and how. If a story
is about a Military Government opera-
tion it is cleared with one or more G—5
Division branches to insure accuracy.
If itsinvolves policy of Military, Gov-
ernment, conferences will be held with
liaison representatives of the Public
Relations Service of USGCC.

Probably three or four, at least, of
the G—5 Public Relations staff will
play a part in the production of the
story. Frequent branch conferences
are held. Members of the branch en-
compass a wide variety of backgrounds
and experiences. Major Karl E. Quig-
ley was a former Los Angeles news-
paperman who later worked in Cairo
for International News Service before
joining the French Foreign Legion.
Major Oliver McKee was formerly
Washington correspondent of the
Boston Transcript. Major R. C. Rosen-
baum had extensive radio experience.
Two captains are former Baltimore
newspapermen, J. C. Mullikin. who
worked for Hearst and W. H. Haller,
Jr. who was on the Sunpapers there.
Capt, Charles Schwarz was on the Chicago
Daily News staff before becoming a
public relations man for the Treasury
Department in Washington. Capt. R. R.
Fowler is also a former Chicago news-
paper man. Capt. J. C. Welsh has done
public relations work in New York.
Capt. Harry M. Astin was a reporter and
editor in Wyoming and Washington.
Lt. H. W. McGinnis was a_ theater
manager in Chicago and learned about
relations .with the public. Ist. Lt. C. J.
Byrns, was a Washington correspon-
dent for business papers, Ist Lt. J. T.
Foster majored in journalism at col-
lege, just before the war and S/Sgt. R.
J. Franks is a graduate of a university
school of journalism and worked as a
reporter. :

OFFICE AT WIESBADEN

When a story on Military Govern-
ment is finished, copies of it are sent
by courier and jeep to the headquarters
at Wiesbaden of the USFET Public Re-
lations Division, which maintains billets

--- Page 12 ---
for many of the correspondents, ar-
ranges cable and _ radio transmission,
handles the accreditation of correspon-
dents for the theater and _ provides
transportation facilities for them. The

story arrives during the afternoon at °

Wiesbaden where one of the G-5 Public
Relations Branch officers is stationed
on duty in liaison capacity. He takes
the story, processes it through the in-
formation room where it is mimeo-
graphed and at 1800 hours each day
the G-5 stories on Military Govern-
ment as well as other stories that may
have reached Wiesbaden from the Navy
Public Relations Branch or from the
Army Air Forces or from the USGCC
at Berlin are similarly handled. All day
long, many of the writers have been at
Frankfurt or elsewhere obtaining
special interviews. But they return to
Wiesbaden at that hour and eagerly
examine the releases or.”*hand-outs”.

STORIES GO BY RADIO

When it is 1800 hours at Wiesbaden
it is only noon in New York, and so
they have ample time to digest the
contents of the releases and prepare the
transmission to their newspaper home
offices usually by radio, for publication
in the next day’s editions. They use. a
unique language, known as "cablese”’.
This code is to curtail the enormously
heavy tolls for radio transmission. They
don’t write "this afternoon’. That
would cost two words in tolls. They
make it read.,,safternoon”. This is one
word. Instead of ”from Germany” their
dispatch might read ’exgermany”, etc.

Four press services customarily main-
tain correspondents at Wiesbaden all
the time. These are the Associated
Press, the United Press, the Internatio-
nal News Service and Reuter’s. Usually
there will be a dozen or more corre-

spondents of individual papers, as for
instance, Drew Middleton or Gladwin
Hill of The New York Times; Ed Mor-
gan of the Chicago Daily News; pos-
sibly Carl Levin of the New York Her-
ald Tribune; occasionally Bill Cunn-
ingham of the Boston Herald; John An-
derson of the Manchester Guardian and
others. Recently Ericka Mann, daughter
of the famous German emigré, Thomas
Mann, has been doing Military Govern-
ment stories for Liberty Magazine and
the London Evening Standard. From
time to time Larry Rue or Sigrid
Schulz, representing the Chicago Tri-
bune, will spend days at Frankfurt and
live and file stories from Wiesbaden;
Victor Bernstein of New York’s PM; or
Pat Franks of. the Overseas News Agen-
cy. Usually there will be a Stars and
Stripes man, as for example, Pat Mit-
chell, and almost always there are a
half-dozen writers from foreign-lang-
uage newspapers published in France,
Denmark, Norway, Mexico and even Ar-
gentina.

G-5 PRESS CONFERENCE

The G-5 Public Relations Branch
maintains at USFET Headquarters,
Frankfurt, its own press room as a
convenience for correspondents. Typewri-
ters, desks, paper, maps and reference
material are made available. Interviews
with G-5 Division officers are arranged
and at least once weekly there is
a special G-5 press conference at
the USFET Headquarters
authority on such topics as food and
agriculture, public safety, financial mat-
ters or education and religion speaks
informatively to assembled newspaper-
men and then answers questions freely.

There are VIPs coming through
Frankfurt constantly. Many of these are
publishers and owners of newspapers or

where an -

--- Page 13 ---
high officials of newspaper chains. They
are eager to learn about Military Gov-
ernment. Even though their correspon-
dents do the actual writing, these VIPs
are taken by G-5 Public Relations offi-
cers to observe Military Government
at work. :

Frequently they will spend an hour
or two at the Frankfurt Military Gov-
ernment Detachment commanded by
Lt. Col. Robert K. Phelps, where 2nd
Lt. Stanley Temko serves as Detach-
ment PRO. Sometimes they will . be
taken to witness a Military Government
court in session or perhaps to ‘one or
two nearby DP camps or, frequently,
to the Reichsbank at Frankfurt where
millions of dollars worth of German
gold and loot are under guard.

RECENT VIPs

Recent VIPs have . included Arthur
Hays Sulzberger, president and  pub-
lisher of The New York Times; Bruce
Rae, assistant managing editor and
. Buropean business head of The New

York Times; Richard Berlin, general
manager and John W. Haines, business
manager of the Hearst papers; W. G.
Chandler, president of the American
Newspaper Publishers Association; and
R. W. Slocum of the Philadelphia Bul-
letin and an Associated Press director.
Not long ago, a party of Hollywood
VIPs, including Darryl Zanuck, Jack
Warner, Harry Cohn and Ed Mannix,
was escorted by G-5 Public Relations
Branch officers. There have been par-
ties of radio executives and newsreel
executives. All this is public relations.

A constant procession of newspaper
and magazine correspondents goes into
the fieid. They go to the Western Mili-
tary District where the Seventh Army
Assistant Chief of Staff G-5, Col. M. O.

* special coverage and interviews

10

Edwards, and Army PRO, Col. Marshall
Newton, provide helpful facilities. | In
the Eastern Military District the ACOS
G-5, Col. Roy Dalferes, and the Army
PRO, Major William Drake, also arrange
about
Military’ Government.

During August each of the districts
began to deploy officers trained in
Military Government as well as in news-
paper work for duty as G-5 PROs at
all Regional and Regierungsbezirk ci-
ties. During September the further re-
deployment of ECAD regiments will
bring two G-5 PROs to each ”E” De-
tachment for work in these large cities
and among the smaller detachments in
the surrounding areas. As soon as pos-
sible, each of these ”E” Detachment
PROs will begin making recurrent
visits to the nearby local detachments.

\

Each detachment’s commander will be
expected to serve as his own G-5 Public
Relations officer or to delegate this
duty to some especially qualified mem-
ber of his staff. Stories will be dis-
cussed and planned and newspaper men
will be encouraged to visit detachments
and to spend a night or two, watch
Military Government at work and write
about it.

General Clay wants the facts about
Military Government "placed on the
table”. We are in a gold fish bowl. This
spotlight scrutiny brings added pride
No body of soldiers in any army any-
where ever performed a more important
gr more significant duty. We in Mili-
tary Government can look back years
and decades to come on the part we
played in this incomparable contri-
bution to the peace and well-being of
the world. We are making history and
the correspondents are writing it.

‘

--- Page 14 ---
Religion in Germany Today

PLANS for the reconstruction of the
Evangelical Church in Germany, nearly
destroyed by the Nazi regime, and for
its participation in the solution of
problems confronting the German
people, were made at a conference of
Church leaders held 27—31 August 1945,
at Treysa. Approximately 85 clergy-
men from all parts of Germany attended
the assembly, the first of its kind since
the war.

With few exception all the leading
churchmen and theologians of the Pro-
testant denominations were assembled.
Pastor Niemdller, with characteristic
vigor, took a leading part in the dis-
cussion. His general position was that
in view of the present situation it is
best to stop crying and to become
active in positive plans for the future.

The 76-year old bishop of Wiirttem-
berg, Dr. Wurm, the chairman of the
conference, exhibited tact and diplo-
macy in handling situations which
might have become difficult.

Two other leading Lutheran bishops
were Dr. Marahrens of Hannover, abbot
of Loccum Monastery and president of
the Lutheran. World Convention, and
Dr. Meiser, bishop of Bavaria. Dr. Di-
belius, recently elected Lutheran bishop
of Berlin, came with two representa-
tives of the Evangelical Church now
under Russian control.

Other prominent delegates -were
Pastor Asmussen, Dr. Lilje, Professor
Schreiner and Dr. Gerstenmaier among

the Lutherans; Dr. Niesel of the Cal--

vinists and Professor Karl Barth of
Switzerland, who attended at the in-
vitation of his associates of the Con-
fessional Church.

The first big question discussed
was that of Church reconstruction.
The Nazi state had interfered drasti-
cally with nearly all phases of church
life and had issued a number of laws
which limited and eventually suppressed
all free activities of the church. As some
pastors pointed out, it is difficult for
the observer from the outside to realize
the extent to which church institutions
were gradually molded into something
quite different from their original pur-
pose. This breaking down of church
institutions had robbed the people .of
an important sustaining agency and had
left them bewildered and helpless, it was
maintained.

The conference declared that the
obvious task of the Church is to recon-
struct the legal bodies and assemblies,
that by so doing a new and independent
constitution for the church may be
evolved.

SECOND MAJOR PROBLEM

The second main problem of the con-.
ference dealt with special rélief work
to meet the serious situation in which
the German people will find themselves
during the coming winter. Plans were
offered for helping in the housing, feed-
ing and warming of the people, it
being agreed that the church has re-
sponsibilities in these matters, and the
delegates declared that Christian charity
should take its place in reconstruction.

Considerable anxiety was expressed
concerning the lack of Christian liter-
ature. An acute need of Bibles, Christian
papers, etc., was cited, and without the
restoration of presses: formerly devo-

--- Page 15 ---
ted to this kind of publication, the dele-
gates feared the need could not
filled.

Stating that.the destruction of the
Nazi regime had left a vacuum in every
sphere of public life, and in political
and cultural activities, the delegates
declared that Germans look now to the
Church to lead in restoring such activi-
ties on a proper basis. To this end the
churchmen decided to educate their
clergy in the public duties of the
church, and the laity to the realization
of the importance of active support of
the church in the present situation.

SANS CONGREGATION

Another problem presented to the
conference was that of Germans who
have left or are now leaving certain
regions in the eastern sections of the
country. Among these is a considerable
number of pastors who lost their con-
gregations and who have come to the
western part of Germany looking for
new work. A scheme is being prepared
by which these pastors may be utilized,
calling for common action by all the
Protestant churches.

Christian education was
sidered. The totalitarian state limited
activities of the churches among the
younger generation almost to zero, but
now, it was stated, the Church is the
only public institution which can guide
youth in the way it should go. It was
stated that all Christian churches in
Germany realize the tremendous re-
sponsibility which this fact places upon
them. Nearly. a whole day of the con-
ference was devoted to the problems
of religious instruction as, well as those
of schools and education in general.

There are many who feel that while
' the German people are not thoroughly

be’

also. con--

13

contrite concerning their responsibility
for bringing the world to the brink of.
destruction, and so are not to be trusted
to launch’ an ambitious program of
public activity, yet Military Government,
with a watchful eye, can well encourage
the Church to establish a sound moral
basis for the Germany of the future. If
the Church is unable to accomplish this,
it is doubtful whether any other agency
can do it.

Following is a statement by the con-
ference, broadcast and published as a
message to the congregations:

The judgment and wrath of God
came over us. The hand of God lies
heavily upon us. It is the mercy of God
that we are not yet extinguished. Those
who knew the Word of God were afraid
of his wrath and foresaw the coming
judgement and were troubled by it.

"TODAY WE CONFESS"

Today we confess: Long before God’
spoke to us in his wrath, He was seek-
ing us by the Word of His Love — but
we did not pay attention. Long before
the churches broke down into ruins,
pulpits had become desecrated and
prayers had become silent. Shepherds
let their flocks starve, congregations
left their pastor alone. Long before the
illusionary order of the Reich broke
down, Right had become falsified. Long
before people were killed, Man had
become a mere number and therefore
valueless. But he whose life becomes
valueless is quick to destroy life.
Whosoever despises Love, does not fight
for the Right of others. He does not

-mind the seduction of Man and does

not listen to the voice of his pain. He
lives and talks as if nothing of this sort
were happening. He is shy of all respon-
sibility as was the case with Christians

--- Page 16 ---
and non-Christians.
behind the ordinances of Man in order
to escape the Commandments of God.
This lie turned out to be our death.
The very fact that we were shy of
sufferings brought all this_unmeasurable
suffering over us.

But in the midst of all
comings. and failures of. church and
nation God granted men and women out

He takes refuge’

the short-

of all denominations, classes and parties .

the power to stand. up against wrong

and arbitrariness, to suffer and to die.

Wheresoever the Church took her res-

ponsibility seriously she called people
‘ back to God’s Commandments, called
by their real names wrong and frivolity,
the guilt of the concentration camps,
the:injuries and killing of Jews and sick
people, and tried to oppose the seduct-
ion of the young. But she was driven
back into her church-buildings like into
a prison. Our people were separated
from the Church. The public was not
allowed to listen to her word, nobody

knew about her message. And then came -

the wrath of God. He ae away what
man tried to save.

“COMES .. . THE LIGHT" —
”Now the door has been opened again.

Now comes into the light what has been.

_ prayed for and planned. for in silence.
Many Christians gave during the dark-
‘ness of their imprisonment and enforced
inactivity their thoughts | to the new
order of church and nation. Whosoever
at the present accepts public respon-
sibility as a Christian is seeking for
Service and not for Power. It takes
much faith and unselfishness to accept
a public office in this.depth of need.
”The Church also lost her heavy
bonds. She hopes for something new in

13

‘destruction,

her preaching and her order. The former
captivity of the Church has come to its
end. Therefore we are glad. So we come
before protestant’ Christianity and call
pastors ‘and congregations for the

‘renewal of the Church. We call to our

people: Turn back to God!

“In God’ all the countless men and
women did not suffer in vain. We bless
those who did suffer. We bless them
who’ would. rather die and preferred
death to an iqnominious life and senseless -
who were seeking the
benefit of their people in the divine
truth. We tharfk God that’ He ‘saved. in
our fatherland men who asked for His
ways. We thank Him that He cleanses ©
the conscience and saves sinners through
His son. Those who live in fear of Him-

‘did He terrify. by His wrath, but com-

fort by His peace:

”The peace of God is also the strength
of those in sorrow of the prisoners, of
those in waiting, in hunger and in cold,
of the homeless and the wounded in
body and soul.-- The peace of God is
your comfort! Stand up in patience.
against misery and distress! Do not shut
your eyes and hearts against the need
of your brother, partake with your
limited strength in the works of charity
by which we try to mitigate the worst.
Be merciful! Do not, by lack of love,
add ‘to the injustice in the world!
Refrain from vengeance and calumnies!

_ Let us: ask for the Will of God, each in

his vocation and profession!,Do not, in -
face of sufferings and hunger, seek
refuge in death! He who believes, does
not fly’. Christ will give to the sorrowful
and He remains our Saviour. There is
no depth of Hell into which God. could -
not stretch His hand.

”BE NOT AFRAID!”

--- Page 17 ---
Trade and Commerce Organized

AMONG the newer branches of G-5
to come into existence recently is the
Trade and Commerce Branch which will
perform many of the functions hereto-
fore performed by the Economics Branch.
The Trade and Commerce'Branch will
primarily be concerned with activities re-
lating to the control and supervision of
internal and foreign trade and com-
merce. These activities are divided into
three categories managed by the follow-
ing three sections: Priee Control’ Sec-
tion, Trade and Distribution Section,
and Foreign Trade Section.

The Price Control Section recom-
mends policies, prepares directives and
instructions for: Administration and
enforcement by German agencies of
price and rent controls: over all goods,
facilities, and services at all levels of
production and distribution; and en-
forcement .of rationing controls by
German agencies. This section will also
supervise and assist Military Districts in
executing such policies.

The Trade and Distribution Section
has been inaugurated for the purpose
of controlling the rationing of con-

‘0

sumer goods (other than food) and
services in the U. S. Zone and also to
handle the purchase~of such goods and
services by US troops from civilians.
The control of black market operations
will be the joint responsibility of this
and the Price Control Section.

The Foreign Trade Section will be
concerned with the control of civilian .
trade across the boundaries, of the US
Zone. All problems and correspondence
pertaining to imports. and exports will
be received by this section with the
exception of those concerning relief:
supplies imported by the United States,
United Kingdom, and/or UNRRA Such °
importiexport will be the responsibility
of the Supply Control Section, Econo-
mics Branch.

The Foreign Trade Section will also
negotiate all necessary foreign exchange
arrangements with the Financial Branch,
G-5. . .

All sections will assume responsibility
for the establishment of procedures for -
obtaining and disseminating statistical
and other information concerning their
respective sections,

. Industry Branch Established

AN Industry Branch has_ recently
been established under G-5 for the con-
trol of German industry in the US Zone.

- This branch, another product of the re-
organization plan of the Division,
will assume many of the responsibilities
and functions formerly performed by

14

the Production Control Agency, which
is no longer in existence.

The industrial disarmament of. Ger-
many, including the prevention of manu-
facture of prohibited items, will be one
of the principal problems to’ be met by
this branch. However, in order to carry

--- Page 18 ---
out the objectives of the Theatre Com-
mander, a certain amount of industrial
production is essential. It will be the
duty of this branch to recommend
policies and develop plans for, and
supervise the control of such production.
"A complete analysis of the production
capacity of the US Zone will soon be
made and recommendations offered as
to industrial facilities available for re-
parations. : :
The Industry Branch will ° supervise
both the decentralization of German
. industry and the denazification of Ger-
man industrial management. It will

develop’ plans and policies for maximum
use of German regional and--local
agencies in controlling industrial pro-.

_ duction, and determine whether national

agencies should be used and to what
extent.

An Industry Branch will be established
in-each Military District, which will, be
responsible for staff supervision and

‘ coordination of industry control activi-

15

ties within the Military District. Industry
control activities in the districts will be
conducted by Industry Officers assigned
to appropriate detachments.

--- Page 19 ---
GENERAL

Were Mil Gov Conferences Scheduled

DURING the month of September,
_conferences are to be held on military
government at the regional level.
Representatives of the military govern-
ment detachments for all Regierungs-
bezirke and major Kreise within the
district will attend these conferences.
Thereafter, further conferences at the
Regierungsbezirke level will be held for
representatives’ of the remaining Kreis
detachments. The purpose of these con-
ferences will be to discuss U. S. policy
for Germany and current problems of
military government.

The recent’ military government con-
ference held in Frankfurt will serve as
a guide for these and subsequent meet-
ings. Programs, address and informal dis-
cussions of the Frankfurt Conference
wili be made available as aids in planning
and carrying out the aims for which
these conferences are intended. A com-
plete, report of the Frankfurt Conference
is being published as a special edition
of the Weekly Information Bulletin.

Jewish Refugees Aided

BY SPECIAL arrangement with Chief
Rabbi Herzog, Tel Aviv, Palestine,
_approximately 500 Ethrogim and Lu-
‘ lovim are being shipped to Munich for

16

distribution throughout Jewish Refugee
Camps in the American’ Zone. These
citrons. and palm leaves form an
essential part of the Jewish Holy Day
ritual and the 300 or more inhabitants
of these camps are expected’ to welcome
such a shipment with greater joy than
a shipment of food or clothing.

This shipment is ‘considered most
essential as moral and spiritual stimu-~
lant for these people. For many it will
be the first time in several years that
they have had the opportunity of
celebrating their Holy Day in fitting
manner.

Art Restitution Insured

REPAIR of the Verwaltungsbau and
Fihrersbau art collecting point at
Munich is rapidly being completed. This -

‘project is considered of primary im-

portance as a _ military -necessity.
Measures are being taken to insure that
the task of restoring works of art may
be continued throughout the winter
without interruption. Many of the world
masterpieces which were looted by the
Nazis are being processed here upon
recovery. The rapid and efficient
restitution of these works of. art is
being carried out by both civilian and

_ military personnel.

--- Page 20 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

Anti-Nazis and Food Control

‘NOW THAT the green light has been * They organize acts" of sabotage; they

given to. political activity, the newly

organized groups are feeling their way.

toward other fields which are closely
‘allied to, but broader in scope than,
politics itself. As a niatter of. fact, until
elections take place there will be little
opportunity for parties to ‘exercise their
primary function, the choosing of public
officials. Meanwhile, in the organizing
of trade unions and cooperatives, they
are already enlisting the popular sup-
port which will be necessary for the
eventual election of their candidates.

In still another field they are carrying
on certain activities. which directly
concern civil administration and which
are, therefore, of direct interest to
Military Government. Whether or not
these activities will prove beneficial to
the Military Government Detachments
in the field remains to be seen.

Typical in this:connection is a Com-
munist-Socialist leaflet in which it is
urged that Food Committees be
established in all communities.
committees would have the two-fold
objective of aiding in the denazification
of ‘all food growing and distributing
agencies and of securing the maximum
agricultural yield. The Action Committee
which signed the document feels that
in achieving the first objective the
second will automatically follow. They
state: "A great many Nazis, from the
highest position down to the lowest,
man the offices which are charged with
the feeding of the population

These.

17

want chaos” ;

The measures advocated to remedy
the situation are set forth in a four
point splan.. First, all available persons
would be. detailed to agricultural work.
To this end Labor Exchanges would
cease the favoritism of which the leaflet

accuses them. Second,’ Food Com-
mittees are recommended in every
village. These would be made up of

“antifascists”” They would have the

‘specific mission of ridding local ad-

ministrations of Nazi influence, of re- |
vising farm production allocations and
supervising delivery of stipulated quan-
tities, of speeding up distribution
through elimination of- non-essential
middlemen, and of combatting the black

‘market and so-called.sabotage, Third,

wholesale distributing firms are to be
purged of Nazis. The fourth point, added
possibly as an afterthought, urges that
there should be no dissension with the
Government of Occupation!

» ACTION COMMITTEE

It is obvious that the comprehensive
program of the Action Committee could
not be carried out by them without
interfering to a considerable degree
with the normal administrative agencies
which are authorized to deal with the
problems they have presented. Undoub-
tedly the Committee realizes this and
so the program must be evaluated for
what it can actually accomplish. More
than anything else it is an instrument -
for applying pressure on the govern-
mental administration with a view to

--- Page 21 ---
obtaining complete denazification as
well as ‘more efficient distribution of
food.

A Plea for Heavy Industry

THE LEADERSHIP principle remains
as valid in Gefmany today as before the
Allied occupation. At least that is what
one leader in the industrial field would
have us believe. It will be sufficient, he
states, for the Allied authorities. to
stand guard over the chosen few —
presumably himself included — and the
many will follow. \

Source regrets that the German people
should be such docile ”followers-of-the-
leader,” but he attributes this to Sla-
vonic influences which have been under-
mining the individualism of the German
race! And it is this very docility,. he
asserts, which led them to*accept Nazism
and which might again lead them to
accept Communism. Whether or not
‘Germany becomes communist will
depend largely, it is stated, upon the
extent to. which Germanic individualism
is allowed to develop. This means, in the

mind of our informant, giving sufficient -

latitude to German heavy industry to
permit its continued operation.

He explains that this. would not mean,
of course, the continued production of
arms, but he maintains that heavy Ger-
man industry was. never completely.
given over to the manufacture of war
material. After the disastrous experience
of reconversion from total arms pro-
duction following the first World War,

it was decided by leading German in-.

dustrialists to continue manufacturing
items, which could be used in peace as
well as in war, such as trucks and. loco-
motives. The point is that those firms
whose names are commonly associated

.

18

with the German total war effort should
not be penalized because of this asso-
ciation to the extent of being closed
down, but rather their peace-time
potential should be redeveloped. Other-
wise, he points out, many, many thous-
ands of German workers will have to

look for work in new fields and there ©

will be a resultant long-time dislocation
of the German economy. ‘

- The individual expressing these opini-
ons stated that in one firm with which
he was well acquainted there had been
no sudden switch in policy with the
advent of the Nazi regime.. Quite the
contrary, not only were there no Nazis
on the board but none were admitted.
The firm even retained on its staff a
number of Jews. Here the inference is
that a change to peace-time manu-
facturing would represent no problem
either from the standpoint of personnel
or policy.

It is interesting to note that in this
discussion certain fundamental Nazi
doctrines, such as racism and leadership,
were expressed, if in some what
less dogmatic terminology than former-
ly, even though the individual who ex-
pressed them is not known to have taken
any active part in Nazi political life.

Trends in the Formulation of
Political Programs .
THE. GENERAL public, being com-
pletely engrossed in the problem of find-
ing their daily bread, have remained
noticeably apathetic to political matters.
Political ‘leaders, however, were fairly
quick to respond to the new situat{on
resuiting from the legalization of local
political activity as set forth in General

Eisenhower’s recent proclamation. There
are definite signs that the formulation

--- Page 22 ---
of political programs to be submitted to
the public in the near future is engaging
their attention. Because of the situation
just described, some political reorienta-
tion from the top seems to be unavoid-
able at present. Certain political leaders
of Catholic leanings have reached con-
clusions concerning the basis for such
programs which are paraphrased below:

The old form of political
activity, they say, must disappear. It
_ is obsolete and impossible in thé future,
if only because of the large numbers
involved. Our people must concentrate
to form no more~than two or three
groups of different political opinions,
and express and activate their political
will through these groups. At present,
they think, the principal differences be-
tween these few groups are restricted
to several rather important points of
view, but that, generally a relatively far-
reaching unanimity of opinion prevails.
All these groups will form themselves
on the basis of democratic ideas of the
state, In social matters they will-all ad-
vocate the total equality of the workers
and the promotion of their economic
and cultural betterment; they’ will be
forced in economic matters to. take into
account the necessities of the country
with respect to care for agriculture, the
middle :classes and industry, as far as
this is possible. The essential differences
will arise in matters of ideology (Welt-
anschauung). It will generally be ‘ack-
nowledged that the mental disease
caused by National Socialism must be
healed by leadership of the masses by
means of a firm ideology. The leader-
ship of a political group, they maintain,
can only be based on a positive Christian
basis. This group must, therefore, con-
scientiously and definitely confess its
adherence to a Christian order of state
and society, and as far .as_ possible

realize this faith. Excluding all so-called’

party |

19

such a

clerical influences, the - Christian- faith
and Christian influence aré to be dé-
cisive in education as in public life. The
privileges of the churches as fixed by
Concordats and agreements’ are’ to be
respected and are to be directive -for
public life. The recognition of this
principle can also be expected from all
those who for themselves claim the right

_ to a more “independent attitude towards

the religious denominations. The rela-
tion of the grown-up individual to re-
ligion shall and must be left to his own
decision. It must be assumed that’ the
wider group which is trying‘to gain the
leadership of the people does not adopt
positive attitude towards
Christian ideology; for them religion
will remain a private matter of the in-
dividual. Numerous contacts with mem-

bers of a former Leftist party prove to

them the correctness of the assumption
that this difference is one, -or rather the
essential difference in the large group-
ing. of- political opinions. A further
difference ‘will exist in economic mat-
ters. This, however, will not- be so
apparent at present. 7

As far as great political problems are
concerned they think it. will “not be
possible either now or in the near
future for Reich: or federal problems
to play a decisive part.

When forming a group which wishes

- for political leadership, ‘it is inadvisable,

they believe, to fix a program which is
too detailed. The. need is to show the
big issues on which the people .are
united and to avoid all those on which
there is serious division: As the prin-
ciples and directions have to’ be found
on new paths, the names of political
groups should be new as well. All names
of the former parties are impossible and
must disappear since they are stained
with the experiences of the past and
restricted by'their old programs.

--- Page 23 ---
LESSONS FROM OPERATIONS.

ROYALTY AND RED CROSS

A RECENTLY reorganized and de-
nazified Hessian Red Cross is expected
to be able to do much in solving most
of the problems which will arise this
winter in Land. Hessen. This new Red
Cross under the leadership of Princess
Margaret von Hessen has been examined
and approved and is now awaiting re-
cognition by the International. Red
Cross. Until a charter from them ‘has
been received, the Hessian Red Cross
will operate on a_ provisional basis
subject to Military Government super-
‘vision. . -

YOUTH IN ACTION

YOUTH activities are being organized
in Land Hessen for those from 14 to 18
years of age to include sports, music,

literature and drama. A special youth ”

library has’ been set up where hun-
dreds of books banned by the nazis will
be made available. The young people of
the town of Heppenheim are preparing
‘a concert for the American ‘troops
“billeted in that area. Also in Heppen-
heim, three or four youngsters have
een assigned to work with each
carpenter, brick layer, glazier, etc. to do
certain menial work so that the crafts-
man may use his time in work that re-
quires his’skill and the youth will have
employment to occupy his time.

GERMANS FEAR "AMERICAN
GESTAPO" :
In Kaiserslautern, the Military. Gov-
ernment detachment reports that rumors
are constantly growing and circulating

20

among the public relative to deaths of
Germans arrested by CIC. The rumors,
say the Detachment, are leading to fear
of an American Gestapo”. Although
it may seem like a minor matter, the
fear and distrust is widespread and the-
Detachment reports that we are nulli-
fying the work that we want to do when
we do not take every opportunity to
show the Germans that American
justice’ is open and above board as
compared with Nazi methods. The
Detachment suggests that’ in ordér to
eradicate this situation quicker commu-
nications with relatives in case of deaths
among prisoners and notification to
relatives telling them where the pri-
soners are held.

.RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM

One of the first large scale- re-
construction programs. is presently
underway in Mannheim, one of Ger-
many’s most damaged cities, under the
supervision of Military Government.
The program was conceived by city
planners, architects and-engineers and
is presently employing thousands of
builders and craftsmen.

Although its immediate objective is
to make only essential repairs before
winter, the program is ah experiment
in reconstruction that should bear care-
ful watching by all Military Government
personnel, who will be facing their own
local problem in the near future.

Military Government : officials have
already found earnest cooperation ‘in
the Germans from the Burgermeister on
down to the youngest unskilled worker.

--- Page 24 ---
Regardless of skill and war disabilities,
everyone is reported to have a place
in the program. For those unable to do
heavy work, courses have been prepared
which will provide training in crafts
not requiring physical fitness.

One of. the biggest problems is that
of securing construction material. Some
materials have come from private firms
and a distributing company has been
established which coordinates the se-
curing of materials from all sources
and places them where they are needed
most. A local glass factory is pro-
ducing 2,000 square meters of glass
daily. In addition, other factories in
Mannheim and vicinity are producing
roofing material, cement and shingles.
Such materials as bricks, steel and other
metals are salvaged; old cement is pro-
cessed and mixed with new cement. It
was announced that a plant soon will be
in operation which will separate debris
so that the fine material that is sal-
vaged may be mixed with new cement
to strengthen the output.

Mannheim’s reconstruction program
is not exclusively. concerned’ with
emergency housing and repairs. It was
pointed out that there are many block
areas in which only limited reconstruc-
tion is permitted so as not to interfere
with the ultimate long-range — plan,
which will not be worked on until the
emergency phase is completed.

BLACK MARKET CONTROL
THE Frankfurt Detachment and the
Provincial Food Office are formulating
detailed plans to control black market
operations in food. The program, which
will include control of farmers by local
officials, farm inspections, severe prison

21

sentences for offenders, and reeducation
of the German people through radio
and press, will be presented at the meet-
ing of all burgermeisters and landrats
of Hessen-Nassau.

AID FORMER NAZI PRISONERS

In Offenbach, German citizens are
making voluntary amends for’ the
crimes committed by the Nazi regime
by giving generously to a German wel-
fare agency which. has been set up to
aid former prisoners of the Nazis.

Although directly supervised by the
Military Government Detachment, the
welfare office was originated at the
request of the Germans and is presently
run by a former concentration camp
inmate. The Military Government
Detachment reports that- the idea has
been so successful that no victim of
nazism is without shelter in Offenbach.
In addition, ‘material and financial aid
have already been given to several hun-
dred former political and - religious
prisoners.

STUTTGART BARTER MARKET |

An exchange and barter market was
opened recently in Stuttgart as part
of a plan of the Military Government
Detachment to combat black market
activity, a news dispatch stated. The
market was established as separate de-
partments in 20 of the city’s leading
retail stores.

A person desiring to barter an article
takes it to the proper store, such as
shoes are taken to the shoe store. The
store then gives an estimate of the
value of the goods according to price
lists verified by the German Economic
Office. If the article is acceptable, the

--- Page 25 ---
store takes it and gives a ticket with
the value of the article entered on it,
plus cash. The person may then go to
any of the other agencies and receive
articles up to the value of his ticket.
An important part of the system is a
ledger account of all items sold, which
offers a ready means of identifying the
last owner of stolen goods.

The markets handle clothing, furn-
iture, household goods, work tools,
leather goods, glass, agricultural equip-
ment and even musical instruments.

HOLD PARENTS RESPONSIBLE

Military Government officials in Fulda
have posted notices throughout the
area that parents will be held re-
sponsible and brought to court for
juvenile deliquences. Court officials
report that the policy of releasing
juvenile offenders into parental custody,
coupled with admonitions to parents,
has been operating successfully, and no
second offenders have been arrested.

UNUSUAL DP PROBLEM

Among the unusual displaced persons
problems being handled by _ military
government officers in Bremen is the
case of 34 children born of unwed Nor-
wegian women and German soldiers.

The Norwegian Consul at Hamburg
states that the intense anti-German
feeling which exists in Norway at this
time creates a psychological barrier
which precludes the adoption of these
children by the Norwegians. Authorities
have previously stated that the Nor-
wegian government would consider
German applications for adoption of
these children, providing information
concerning the prospective foster-

22

parents was approved by government
authorities in Oslo.

Gls TEACH GERMANS TO SHOOT

American doughboys of the 29th
Infantry Division, who only a few
months ago used to be human targets
for German soldiers, are now taking
Germans out on the firing range and
teaching them how to shoot.

It’s all very legal, however, for the
Germans are members of the Bremen
military government police force who
are being instructed in the use of
smallarms weapons, under the super-
vision of. the 29th Infantry. Maj.
William A. DePalo, administrative ex-
ecutive officer of the Bremen detach-
ment, announces that approximately 72
per cent of the 155 German police have
already shot qualifying scores.

COURT FOR DISPLACED PERSONS

Three Polish liaison officers have
been selected in Bremen to establish a
court in which Polish displaced persons,
charged with infractions of the law,
may be tried. A temporary detention
barracks is being prepared in the area
to take care of persons found guilty.

SEPARATE DETACHMENTS

DETACHMENT EI1D2, Frankfurt, re-
ports that a separate department has

. been established in the Frankfurt mu-

nicipal government whose responsibility
is the rehabilitation of homes in the
city. Among the functions of the de-
partment will be the establishment of
priorities for repair, and the coordin-

--- Page 26 ---
ation of production of all construction
materials.

CHURCH BACKS MG
The Catholic Church in Landkreis
Straubing is reported to have notified
the Burgomaster that the Church will
insist that every edict of Military Gov-
ernment be carried out completely.
The Church further agrees to let one
of its priests serve as layman on a

board of education. :

WITHDRAW FOOD ‘CARDS

THE labor office in Kassel has been
given authority by Detachment E1C2

23

to withdraw food cards from individ-
uals refusing to work. This drastic step
is being, taken because of the slowness
of convictions in Military Government
courts, and because of the indifference
of civilians to a term in jail with Ameri-
can food.

CONTRACTING AGENCY

DETACHMENT 111D2 directed that
the Landrat of Friedberg’s office serve
as the contracting agency with civilian .
food interests, farmer groups, and
similar organizations with regard to
rental of storage facilities in Wehrmacht
warehouses.

--- Page 27 ---
PRESS COMMENTS

Mil Gov Meeting

FURNISHING material for many
dispatches, the proceedings of the re-
cent Military Government Conference at
USFET Headquarters were well covered
by the press. Other important topics in
the week’s press comment were the
progress of Military Government in the
U. S. Zone during the past 100 days, the
problems of the approaching winter,
and the need for educating the Germans
for representative democratic govern-
ment.

The statement on denazification made
to the conference by Col. Hayden N.
Smith, Deputy AC of S, G-5, USFET,
"is of great significance and will en-
courage local Military Government
officers on whom the carrying out of
policy depends to tackle the problem
boldly,” said a special dispatch to the
Manchester Guardian from Frankfurt.
”The preliminary — which had often to
be the extempore — stage of Military
Government is over, and the time has
come for detailed investigation to bring
to light those nazis who have sought a
tactful retirement in which to go on
enjoying the spoils of nazism and
perhaps to plot dangerously for a future
return to power. The statement of
American policy has given a vigorous
lead to determined action in the United
States Zone.”

Military Government in the U.S.
Zone has scored "notable progress” in
implementing the economic program
announced for Germany in the Pots-
dam statement, declared Drew Midd-

Spurs Denazification

24

‘of the atomic epoch,”

leton, N. Y. Times correspondent. ’The
past 100 days,” he said, "constituted a
critical period, but owing to wise
planning and energetic administration
the Military Government was able to
lay the groundwork for rehabilitation
of Germany economy to the extent
provided for in the Potsdam com-
munique.”

In Middleton’s opinion, however, Ger-
mans in the U. S. Zone "are singularly
unready for what the Potsdam announ-
cement calls ’the successful development
of democratic ideas’.”

The education of the Germans for
representative government has been
almost nil,” Middleton explained. "It was
not provided for in the original Mili-
tary Government directive which became
every district commander’s ’Bible’. The
lack of this provision, the average offi-
cer’s aversion to dealing with anything
so abstract as political ideas when he
had to grapple with the physical
problems of denazification, food, hous-
ing and the ban on all political activity
for Germans created a vacuum which
now, as a result of the Potsdam decision,
must be filled.”

The approaching winter continued to
evoke gloomy forecasts. ’The disaster
confronting Europe will probably kill
more people than the first two bombs
a Manchester
Guardian article declared. Writing in
the NY Times Magazine, Raymond
Daniell forecast a struggle for survival
in most of Europe this winter, with

--- Page 28 ---
rehabilitation and reconstruction delay-
ed until the immediate needs of the
body have been met and satisfied.” The
best that can be done this winter is to
alleviate the worst suffering and wait
for next spring and another harvest”
said Daniell. Military Government in
the U. S. Zone was commended by Drew
Middleton of the NY Times for the
manner in which it has tackled the
problem of this winter’s food shortage.
”The most important achievement of
Military Government in. the agricultural
field has been the opening and staffing
of food processing plants’ Middleton
stated.

Mil Gov in Japan

While several! thousand _ specially
trained officers were preparing to take
up their military. government duties in
Japan, commentators in the American
press were quick to point out that the
job in Japan might well prove tougher
than that in Germany. "It is believed
here that in many respects our problems
in Japan are more complex than in
Germany and that unless we know
exactly what we intend to do and carry
out our intentions precisely, our occu-
pation responsibilities may be longer
and more difficult than we anticipate,”
said Sidney S. Halleth, in a Washington
dispatch to the N. Y. Times. He pointed
out that in the shattered ruins of the
Reich, we took over from a thoroughly
beaten army, whereas in the Land of the
Rising Sun, Military Government will
take over from an army that we have
never met in force. A further point of
difference is the fact that Japan, physi-
cally, had not suffered as much damage
as Germany.

Comment of Edward R. Murrow of

25

CBS was along much the same lines.
The Japanese state was not shattered
as was Germany, but the problem of
demilitarization, reeducating, and eli-
minating feudalism. will be infinitely
greater in Asia than in Europe,” Mur-
row declared. in a broadcast on 19
August.

In a special dispatch from Pacific Hq,
US Army Forces, dated 20 August, a
correspondent of the Christian Science
Monitor asserted that the main job of
the American Military Government in
Japan” will be to make certain that all
avenues for_ resurgence of Shinto-
militarist indoctrination are eliminated.”
The AMG, he continued, is not geared
to install any particular brand of demo-
cracy in Japan. "It is only an_ inter-
regnum designed primarily to furnish
relief and bar disturbances of a violent
nature. And if in the process known
liberals and leaders whose sentiments
lean toward the Allies somehow find
their way into ‘power, replacing old
guarders, the effort will be strictly
extracurricular.”

Europe’s Coal Problem

Coal continues to hold an important
place in current press comment. ”Euro-
pe’s Coal Problem” is. the subject of a
current series of articles in the Man-
chester Guardian. "It is’ widely supposed
that the root of the trouble in Europe
is the shortage of means of transport,”
the first of the Guardian articles stated.
’This delusion is dangerous, because it
stands in the way of a fruitful formu-
lation of the problem. Europe is suffer-
ing from the cumulative effects of
several mutually aggravating shortages,
but the fundamental factor is lack of
power and of the equipment to use it”

--- Page 29 ---
—.and coal of course is’ essential to

* production of power.

In one of several articles by its corres-
pondents on the critical coal situation,
the Chicago ‘News saw the revival of
German coal mining as necessitating a
parallel revival of German industry.
Two major steps in the attack on
Europe’s coal problem — limited revival
of Ruhr industry and controlled German
operation of the Ruhr. mines — would
seem to end the windy debate over
whether Germany will be reduced to a
*goat pasture’ economy as a result of
Alfied occupation,” declared a dispatch
to the News from Essen dated 16 Au-
gust.” British and American experts,
struggling to avoid a critical coal
shortage, say sheer force of circumstan-
ces, if nothing else, is dictating the
answer. German industry is indispens-
able to the economy of Europe. The
more coal that is mined the more sup-
porting industries must be maintained.
France, Belgium and Holland are
clamoring for mining equipment from
the Ruhr factories. Once the factories
are reopened, the pressure to keep them
going may be irresistible.”

Nazi Stronghold?

Leave center for soldiers and a famous
tourist center, Salzburg remains an
“unrepentant” stronghold of Nazism,
according to Thomas E. Healy, corres-
pondent of the N. Y. Post. ”Officers,
GI's, Red Cross girls and even itinerant
American civilians all have the same
idea and express it forcefully,” Healy
wrote in a recent dispatch from the
Austrian city. "Germany has lost the
war, but Salzburg, they say, has defeated
the United States. I was buttonholed by
many people with criticism of our mili-

26

tary government and its failure to dis-
cipline the recalcitrant burghers, and
bring home to them the fact that they
have lost the Nazi war which they
supported.” ;

In a dispatch from Munich on 31°
August, Victor Bernstein, N. Y. Post
correspondent charged that under the
Minister-Presidency of Friedrich Schaf-
fer, "the Bavarian Civil Government
today is largely in the hands of a clique
of German fascists and militarists, some

‘of whose records and actions now are

revealed to be so bad that even our
patient military government is no
longer able to stomach them.”

Merchants of Death

The disclosure of the tie up between
German and American Bosch, revealed
in records. uncovered by the Army at
Stuttgart, brought a vigorous demand
from the St. Louis Post-Despatch for
effective action to end for all time
“international trading in war and
death.” Said the Post-Despatch in an
editorial on August 24. "Is-it any won-
der that peace-loving Americans demand
that our government dig up all the
facts, even if it requires measures

against neutral countries, that the gov-

ernment quit using old friends of Ger-
man industrialists to supervise Ger-
many’s reconstruction; that the greedy
international trading in war and death
be brought out into the daylight and
smashed beyond any possibility of re-
birth?”.

Random Comments

The cession of German land to Po-
land and the resettlement of expelled
Germans in Germany may cause the

--- Page 30 ---
emergence of a new chauvinism and
irredentism. It can be prevented only’ if
Germany is enabled to absorb her re-
turning nationals into an economy
which guarantees them full employment
and a decent standard of living”. —
Heinz Eulau in New Republic.

x *

“After the liberation I asked a mili-
acy government official in Amsterdam
jwhat strata of the population had
/ suffered most from starvation. He said
‘the greatest number of deaths were
"among the very young and the very old
; and people who did not have bicycles”
“— W. W. Chaplin in Collier’s.

*

”The Jews, the first of many minor-
ities to be persecuted by Fascism, are
finding that after three months of con-
fusion, their lot is being ameliorated in
the U.S. Zone of Occupation by the
efforts of the Combined Displaced
Persons Executive of the U.S. Forces
_European Theater” —- Drew Middleton
in N. Y. Times.

27

The American people will be alarmed
to learn that selected German __ tech-
nicians and scientists are to be brought
to the U.S., hired by this Government
to continue military experiments in
research on which they were working
when Germany surrendered. German
scientists coming to America lays the
corner stone of preparation for the
next war and another boost for the
German myth; that Germany really did
not lose war — that the beastly nazis _
failed to hold out long enough for Ger-
man scientists to strike the deciding
blow” — William Lang in MBS
broadcast.

kok

”A democratic form of government
will be of no use if:is not based on a

democratic-minded __ people. Many
former unpolitical men and women
want to. understand the motives of

events and to take part in the fight for
a democratic form of lif2. The main
task is undoubtedly the re-education
of youth and here the school takes the
biggest part ”— Berliner Zeitung.

--- Page 31 ---
QUERIES

Reparations

Q. How will the availability, value
priorities and allocation of Reparations
be accomplished?

A. It is a colossal job, requiring
virtually a complete inventory — quan-
titatively, by category, location and
monetary value — of both the internal
and external wealth of Germany, her
currently available productive capacity
of items for approved peace time post-
war needs or reparations and an
estimate of goods and services for
occupation, displaced persons and the
minimum German economy. This will
involve the closest sort of coordination
— in setting the stage and carrying out
the program — of the Army Ground
Forces, Industry, Food and Agriculture,
Trade and Commerce, Finance, Man-
power, Transport, Communications, and
of course the Reparations, Deliveries
and Restitution Section. In the field,
besides G-5, USFET, and help from the
Services, the Military District Comman-
ders, the Regional Military Government
teams and even the smaller detachments
will be directly involved in carrying out
the Reparations program — from in-
formation and research to final de-
liveries of the goods.

Factory for Reparation

Q. How about an ordnance factory?
Will it be used for Reparations?

A. It is not clear whether capital
goods for making strictly implements
of war —: as ordnance, aircraft and sea
going shipping —- are to be accounted

28

war booty, or not. However, it is ex-
pected that if the machine tools, as dies
or jigs, could be used for ordnance,
they would be destroyed. If the mach-
inery is convertible to normal peace
time use, it becomes a reparation po-
tential.

Imports by Germany
Q..How about imports by Germany?
A. Imports by Germany will have to be

offset by exports, affecting Reparations,
and will therefore be kept at a mini-
mum. Germany will be encouraged
to produce for reparations only (if at
all) with raw materials mainly available
in Germany.

Non-Income Producing Property

Q. With regard to non-income pro-
ducing property, who is to pay for
labor and services rendered for Pro-
perty Control Section?

A. It may be reasonable to charge the
Biirgermeister. with the cost of -pro-
tection and custody of property.

. Treatment of Wehrmacht
Property

Q. Clarify whether or not Wehrmacht
property is to be treated the same as
other property taken under control.

A. Wehrmacht property pertains to
arms or materials of war and does not
come initially within the property
control functions. The AGF have the
‘primary function of demilitarizing Ger-
many. Their program is to destroy all

--- Page 32 ---
armaments, munitions and machinery
which has war making potentialities
including factory machines. If a piece
of machinery is capable of making only
shell casings and nothing else, it will
be destroyed. If the machine can be
converted to making industrial mater-
ials, it should be handed over to Trade
and Industry for further disposition.

Property of Allied Nationals

Q. With regard to property of so-
called Allied Nationals, how are we to
judge whether or not an Allied National
is what he says he is when we don’t
know the laws of citizenship?

A. In cases of doubt, take it into
control. Find out later all details with

29

regard to the citizenship of the in-

dividuals.

Compensation for Expenditures

Q. Suppose we have a contract which
provides that we may terminate it
without prior frotice and the tenant
makes extensive repairs. Is there any
provision for compensation for the ex-
penditures which have been made in case
there is a termination of the contract
prior to its expiration?

A. You may make whatever provisions
are necessary to provide for protection
of your tenant. In such a. case, it will
be necessary for him to vacate the
property upon demand, but he may be
repaid for his expenditures which have
increased its value.

--- Page 33 ---
PERSONAL DATA

Detachment G-27 Commended
for Efficient. Service

DETACHMENT G-27, formerly known
as Detachment I14G3 and under the
command of Captain Francis R. Ed-
wards, was formally commended for
excellent performance by Maj. Gen.
Roderick R. Allen, Commanding General
of the 12th Armored Division.

In a letter to Col. H. McE. Pendleton,

commanding officer of ECAD, Gen.
Allen stated that, ”. . . the co-oper-
ation and efficient service rendered to
the military personnel of the
Armored Division by this detachment
has been in accordance with the highest
standards established by the United
States Government. I extend my utmost
gratitude to you and the Military Gov-
ernment Detachment of Heidenheim for
the splendid performance of your
assignment.”

The detachment arrived Heidenheim

on April 25, 1945, and in addition to
Capt. Edwards, the officers and enlisted
men mentioned in the commendation
include ist. Lt. Wilkie B. Dye, Ist. Lt.
Matthew J. Jasen, 2nd. Lt. John Van
Stirum, S/Sgt. Emery F. Foyle,  T/3.
Robert H. Smith, Cpl. Morris Ginsburg,
Cpl. Domenic Grossi, T/5. Abe A. Fine,
T/5. Arthur S. Katz, T/5. Robert A.
Knisel, T/5. Richard G. Taus, and Pfc.
Arnold E. Perlow.

Returned to the States

Col Joseph L. Canby, G-5, Seventh Army
Col Albert H. Moffitt, G-5, USFET

12th..

30

Col Omer W. Herrmann, G-5, USFET

Lt Col William W. Bryant, Jr., G-5,
USFET

Lt Col Hugh T. Fullerton, G:5, USFET

Lt Col Robert T. Rogers, G-5, USFET

Lt Col Martin W. Joyce, G-5, Seventh
Army .

Lt Col Thomas A. ‘Lindley, G-5, Third
Army

_ Maj Proctor N. Carter, G-5, Seventh

Army

Maj William P. Kanto, G-5, Seventh
Army

Maj William T. Kirk, G-5, Seventh
Army .

Maj Linoel C. Perera, G-5, Third Army

_ Maj Rex Northland, G-5, USFET

Maj Stephen M. Shelton, G-5, USFET

Maj Sidney F. Frazier, Det E2C2

Maj Charles A. Custer, Det G1C2

Capt William W. Blythe, G-5, Third
Arfny

Capt Alexis Cholis, G-5, USFET

Capt George K. Culver, G-5, USFET

Capt Wilton R. Dykes, G-5, USFET

Capt George G. Fox, G-5, USFET

Capt Roy L. Johns, G-5, USFET

Capt Richard W. Van _ Horne,
USFET

Capt William A. McElroy, Det F-214

Ist Lt Arthur A. Goldstein, G-5, USFET

lst Lt Gustave Holstein, G-5, USFET

Ist Lt Harry Saint ’Ambrogio, Det
H-267

Ist Lt Cleveland C. Gill, Det E2C2

S/Sgt Charles W. Kinsey, Jr., Det G1C2

Sgt George H. Krukones, Det E2C2

Ti4 Cyril L. McGarry, G-5, Seventh
Army

T/5 Charles F. Woolman, Det E2C2

G-5,

--- Page 34 ---
Decorations

LEGION OF MERIT
Lt Col Howard Phillips, Hq, ECAD

BRONZE STAR
Lt Col Albert G. Branyan, Hq, ECAD
Maj Andrew Cella, Hq, ECAD
Maj Herbert L. Snapp, Det H292
- Maj George E. Myers, Hq, ECAD
Maj Homer F. Wallar, Hq, ECAD

31

Capt Cyrus M. Wallace, Jr.,.Hq. ECAD
Capt Myron H. Vent, Hq, ECAD

Ist Lt Miller H. Pavlides, Hq, ECAD
Ist Lt Kolman Oravetz, Hq, ECAD
2nd Et Stanley L. Temko, Det E6

Pfc Ernest W. Moser, G-5, Seventh Army

CERTIFICATE OF MERIT

Pfe Kurt N. G-5, Seventh
Army

Rosenthal,

--- Page 35 ---


--- Page 36 ---


--- Page 37 ---
