--- Page 2 ---
RESTRICTED

No. 1 — 28 JULY 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF
G-5 DIVISION
USEET

INFORMATION BRANCH

RESTRICTED

--- Page 3 ---
IN FUTURE ISSUES MAP
OF WESTERN DISTRICT
SHOWING LOCATION
OF DETACHMENTS WILL
APPEAR IN THIS SPACE

--- Page 4 ---
RESTRICTED
No. 1 — 28 JULY 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

| WEEKLY
‘INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE
ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF
G-5 DIVISION
USFET

INFORMATION BRANCH

RESTRICTED

--- Page 5 ---
CONTENTS

PAGE
A NOTE ON ANEW PUBLICATION. ...... 3
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY... ........ 4
Legislative and Judicial Policy... . 2 1 1. 1. 4
|. G. Farben Plants in US Zone Seized. . . . . 1... 7
The Drive to End Nazism . . . . .. . . .  . 10
USFET Proclamation No.1. 0. 6 0. 6 ee ee 1B
Licenses for Newspapers and Publishers . . . . . . 14
First Newspaper Licensed . . . . . . «sss « 15
FIAT Contacts Detachments. . . . . 1... 1. . 15
ICD News Bulletin. 2 2. 2. 2 wee ee ee 18
GERMAN REACTIONS ..... 2... 2 1 16
De-Nazification and the Anti-Nazis . . . . . . . . 16
Released Prisoners . . 2. 6 6) ee ee ew ee 7
Soldiers on the Road Bak . . . . 1. 1. 7
Former Propagandists. 1 . . . . . . «ss « 18
LESSONS FROM OPERATIONS ........ 19
PERSONAL DATA .......... 4... . 22
PRESS COMMENTS .... 1. 1 1 ee ee BB
QUERIES. 2. 2 ee 26

--- Page 6 ---
A NOTE ON A NEW PUBLICATION

THIS is the first issue of the new weekly Military Government
Information Bulletin. It is published by direction of the Theatre
Commander and Military Governor to reflect the overall policies
developed in US Troop. Command and _ the _ theater - wide
responsibilities of G-5. It, has a single purpose: to assist
Military Government personnel in their daily work, and to facilitate
the exchange of ideas.and experience among them. It is designed to
disseminate the information useful to detachments in the field and-to
the staffs at headquarters, and to furnish practical guidance on
Military Government questions and problems.

Each detachment has its own particular problems, whether it be
how to find an efficient Biirgermeister to replace the Nazi incumbent,
or how to utilize the available transportation to best advantage, or
how to insure a maximum of agricultural production. At the same
time, some detachment somewhere has already discovered a practical
and workable solution for a given problem which is challenging the
resourcefulness of another. The Military Government Information
Bulletin will analyze these problems, and by a survey of detachment
experiences will make known the methods which have been most
successful in solving them.

In addition, the Information Bulletin will give you the current
explanations and information on new policies or on changes in old
ones; it will attempt to explain why they were adopted, and how
they can best be put into effect. This should assist in giving personnel
in the field a broader view of the meaning of their efforts. Not
only local experience will be utilized, but such guidance as these
articles will contain will be prepared by members of the Theater and
Control Council staffs, specialists in the various functions of Military
Government. ; ;

Of interest to all Military Government personnel will be news
detachment achievements, and the latest of data on promotions,
citations, leaves and furloughs, which will appear regularly in the
bulletin.

It is hoped that the publication will create a bond between all
personnel engaged in the task of Military Government, whether in
the field or on headquarters staffs. The views and comments of all
those for whom the Information Bulletin is intended to serve will
be welcomed, and should be addressed to Headquarters, USFET, G-5
Division, Information Branch.

--- Page 7 ---
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Legislative and Judicial Policy

THE legislative and judicial policy
objectives of Military Government are
twofold; first, to provide legislation for
the safety and security of the Allied
Forces in the accomplishment of their
mission, and second, to provide machin-
ery for the enforcement of such legisla-
tion.

Toward the accomplishment of the
first policy objective, a number of
ordinances and laws have been issued.
To provide for the safety and the
secuiity of the Allied Forces, Ordinance
No. 1 (Crimes and Offenses’) was
drafted and enacted. The purpose of
this ordinance was to prohibit any act
that was detrimental to the performance
of the military mission of the Allied
Forces, and certain acts detrimental to
the accomplishment of the overall
occupational mission. Such offenses as
espionage, communicating with the
enemy, killing or assaulting any mem-
ber of the Allied Forces, unlawful pos-
session or use of firearms, sabotage,
and other acts which might be. resorted
to by civilians in an effort to hinder the
progress of the army, including acts of
illegitimate ‘warfare against it, are
covered. In addition, acts intended to
aid the survival or revival of the Nazi
Party and acts obstructing Military
Government are provided against by
this ordinance.

The accomplishment of the non-
military, mission required the issuance
of legislation of a different character,

such as Law No. 1 (’Abrogation . of
Nazi Law”), Law No. 5 (Dissolution of
the Nazi Party”), Law No. 52 (Blocking
and Control of Property”), Law No. 53
(Foreign Exchange Control”) and
others.

It may have occurred to some to
wonder how these laws came about,
how they were dreamed up, so to speak.
Were they simply the creatures of the
imagination of officers assigned to
Supreme Headquarters? Did someone
simply say, "I think that it would be a
good thing to enact a law abrogating
Nazi Law and dissolving the Nazi Par-
ty’? No. Every law was spawned and
bred for a specific reason — either as
a security measure or in order to
comply with the directive received’ by
the Supreme Commander from the
Combined Chiefs of Staff, the combined
Army and Navy Staffs of the United
States and Great Britain. True, the
actual drafting and the specific pro-
visions of the Military Government
legislation were provided by Supreme
Headquarters but the aims of the specif.
ic laws were provided by war and
peace objectives enunciated by higher
authority.

ENACTMENT MACHINERY

After providing the necessary legisla-
tion for the accomplishment of the
mission of the Allied Forces, it became.
necessary to provide machinery for its
enforcement. It was, of course, out of

--- Page 8 ---
the question to attempt to enforce our
legislation in the German Courts. Leav-
ing aside the fact that the German
Courts had to be de-nazified before
they could be allowed to function at
all, the necessity for prompt and
proper enforcement and for establishing
the authority and prestige of the oc-
cupying army demanded that the enfor-
cement be by our own courts. Two
courses were open — to use the Mili-
tary Commissions provided for by the
Articles of War (and the corresponding
British Military Tribunals) or to establish
an entirely different system of courts
which could be uniform throughout the
Supreme Commander's area. The latter
plan appeared better because the use
of military courts as known in the
United States and Great Britain would
have involved the selection of one or
the other, or a lack of uniformity, and
because it was thought wise to adopt
procedures, which would at once be more
flexible and more simple and which
would incorporate features of the
continental law.

The decision having been made to
establish a system of courts which would
be uniform, it was decided to use as a
model the system of courts established
by Military Government in the Medi-

terranean Theater, with such alterations-

as experience in that Theater indicated.
In accordance with this plan, an ordi-
nance was drafted establishing such
courts, and rules were drawn providing
the procedure for their operation.

Those familiar with, the operation of
Military Government Courts will know
that there are many differences between
their operation and the operation of
courts in the United States. The chief
differences are a liberalization of the

rules for the admission of evidence and
the interrogation of the accused at the
outset of the trial. Many people have
interpreted the differences as depriving
the accused of essential rights and have
asked why we, who are trying to
show the Germans what democracy and
justice mean; should deprive them of
the rights we enjoy in our own courts.
It is not a case of denying them the
rights we enjoy but rather ‘a case of
not conferring those rights on people
who. have never enjoyed them. The
interrogation. of the accused .by the
court and a liberal policy on the admis
sion of evidence has long been known
in continental law and it would not be
understood if these procedures were
changed. While we know that a dem-
ocracy is superior to a dictatorship, the
position that our system of justice is
in all respects superior to the continen-
tal system is at least debatable. (By
“continental”, it is not intended to refer
to Nazi”, but to the whole system of
civil law used by most of the civilized
nations of the world.) What has been
done, therefore, is to establish a system
of courts which contains elements of
both the common and the civil law pro-
cedure, a system which can be under-
stood both by the Allied officers appoin-
ted as courts and by the German defend-
ants tried by the courts.

MILITARY GOVERNMENT COURTS

While Military Government Courts
were designed primarily for the -trial
aud punishment of offenders against the
legislation enacted by Military Govern-
ment, it was necessary to give them
jurisdiction over offenses against the
law of the occupied territory, since
German Courts were closed pending de-

--- Page 9 ---
nazification of the court officials. It
was never contemplated that Military
Government Courts would take the
place, even for the time being, of Ger-
man Courts, but rather that.where an
offense against German law, which was
not also an offense against Military
Government legislation, was committed,
and the situation demanded immediate
trial, the Military Government Court
would. step in and fill the breach for
that particular case. Such has been the
way it has worked in practice, and very
few offenses against German law have
been tried. However, the fact that such
courts have jurisdiction to try.and do
try a few cases has prevented the reck-
less disregard for the law of the occu-
pied territory, which would have devel-
oped had there been no courts open
which were competent to try offenders.

The overall policy of Military Govern-
ment is never to act directly when it
is possible to act through the German
officials — the principle of indirect
rather than direct government. In the
legal field, particularly during the
tactical phase, it has been necessary for
the Military Government to act directly
more often than indirectly. This phase
has now passed and the time has come
to turn over to the Germans a large
part of the legal work. Every effort
has to be made to reopen the maximum
number of German. Courts, both to
relieve the Military Government Courts
of the burden of trying offenses against
German law, and to try the cases that
have not been considered important
enough to warrant trial by Military
Government Courts and have therefore
been held up pending the reopening of
the proper tribunals.

GERMAN RESPONSIBILITIES -

Another field in which work previous-
ly done directly by Military Government
can be passed to the German officials —
is that of legislation. True, legislation
which is essential to the accomplishment
of the objectives of the occupation,
such as de-nazification and de-militari-
zation of Germany, the German people
and the German law, and the prevention
of discrimination on grounds of race,
nationality, creed or political opinion,
must still be handled by Military Gov-
ernment; but there are other subjects,
which during the tactical phase had to
be dealt with by us, but which can now
be readily turned over to the Germans
both for legislative and judicial pur-
poses.

It can be argued that matters can be
turned over to the Germans for judicial
purposes without their legislating in
the field. It has been said that when we
have legislation on a subject, it is un-
necessary for the Germans to legislate
on the same subject, for our legislation
becomes part of the law of the occupied
territory and may be enforced in the
German Courts. The answer to this is
one of policy rather than one of law.
It is neither prudent nor demanding of
respect to require the German Courts
to enforce our legislation. ”

Outstanding examples of types of
legislation which could readily and
expediently be turned over to the Ger-
man authorities for enactment and
enforcement are travel restrictions, cur-
few and traffic regulations. During the
tactical phase, it was necessary to the
accomplishment of the military mission
for these matters to be strictly regulat-
ed, and their regulation was too im-

--- Page 10 ---
portant a matter to trust to unproven
‘local indigenous officials. Now, how-
ever, although these matters are still
necessary security and safety measures,
they are not of the vital importance
they once were, and they are not meas-
ures required for the accomplishment
of the policy objectives of Military
Government. In addition, the German
officials are gradually increasing in
numbers and efficiency and are better
able to cope with the problem.

The complete hand-over of matters
of this nature to the indigenous authorit-
ies cannot be accomplished until more
German Courts are reopened, but
the assumption by them of legis-
lative functions need not and should
not await the reopening of more courts.
Until sufficient courts are reopened,
Military Government Courts, having
jurisdiction to try offenses against

German law, can dispose of violations
in areas where the German Courts are
not open, or even after they are open
where such action is necessary.

The importance of the enactment by
the German authorities of curfew and
travel restrictions, and the enforcement
thereof by the indigenous courts, is
illustrated by the fact that during the
first ten months of the operation of
Military Government Courts in. Ger-
many, three-fifths of all cases tried
were for violations of this character.

When German legislation is enacted
on a subject previously covered by
Military Government legislation, the
latter should normally be revoked in
order that it will be perfectly clear that
the legislation being enforced in_Ger-
man Courts is not that of Military Gov-
ernment.

|. G. Farben Plants in US Zone Seized

ON 5 JULY 1945 the Supreme Com-
mander directed the seizure of all physi-
cal properties, plants and assets of I. G.
Farbenindustrie AG in the US Zone. The
largest corporation in Germany, it was
also the largest chemical corporation in
the world. The seizure in the US Zone
involved 25 plants, including the Central
Administration Building in Frankfurt,
then occupied by SHAEF and now
occupied by USFET. This building was
the headquarters of the corporation.

The seizure of I. G. Farbenindustrie
AG is the first major step in carrying
out US policy with respect to German

industries which have been closely con-
nected with the German war machine.
The I. G. combine controlled more than
50 per cent of Germany’s production of
chemicals, approximately 80 per cent of

‘Germany’s entire output of nitrogen,

100 per cent of Germany’s output of
magnesium metal, 100 per cent of her
tetra-ethyl lead production, 100 per cent
of her cellophane, approximately 80
per cent of her plastics, more than 50
per cent of her explosives and 100 per
cent of her effective poison gas.

The policy dictated by the Supreme

‘Commander’s orders demonstrates an

--- Page 11 ---
intention that large industrial com-
ponents of Germany’s war machine will
be broken up and their war-making
power destroyed. It is intended that
some of the important I. G. Farben
plants will be made available for repara-
tions, restitutions or relief of devastat-
ed non-enemy countries. Others will
be destroyed. A policy to decentralize
the ownership of those industrial plants
which are neither removed nor destroy-
ed, in order to avoid the danger of
monopolies and combines, is also im-
plied in the basic orders.

Actual seizure of 25 plants in the US
Zone was accomplished on the date of
the order. Tactical troops and Military
Government officers took over these
plants and assumed complete direction
and control. The former management
was displaced. All operations conducted
in these plants are solely under the
direction of US officers. Such opera-
tions are a small fraction of the nor-
mal operations of the plants being
limited to items considered necessary
for the objectives of the occupying
forces.

REPARATIONS PLANTS UNDER WAY

The Military Government officers in
charge of the plants are now making
studies with a view to carrying out the
major objectives of the seizure. Plans
are under way to classify installations
according to their availability for rep-
arations, or as to their destruction.
It is contemplated, however, that such
action will be taken pursuant to policies
to be formulated by the Control Coun-
cil covering plants of I. G. Farben in
all four zones instead of merely in the
US Zone.

The properties in the US Zone are
presently controlled by Col. E. S. Pills-

bury as Control Officer. A Sub-Control
Officer is in charge of each plant. Col.
Pillsbury is assisted by an Advisory
Board of which Col. C. S. Reid is
Chairman. Other members are Brig.
Gen. W. F. Draper, Col. Bernard Bern-
stein, Lt. Col. R. L. Finley and Mr. R.
J. Wysor.

The text of the orders involved in
the seizure. follows:

GENERAL ORDER NO.2 .
|. G. FARBENINDUSTRIE A. G.

WHEREAS, it is the main objective
of the United Nations to prevent Ger-
many from ever again disrupting the
peace of. the worlds

WHEREAS, I. G. FARBENINDUSTRIE
A.G. played a prominent part in build-
ing up and maintaining the German war
machine; *

_ WHEREAS, through its world-wide
cartel system and practices, I. G. FAR-
BENINDUSTRIE A. G., as a deliberate
part of Germany’s bid for world con-
quest, hampered the growth of industry
and commerce of other nations and
weakened their power to defend them-
selves;

WHEREAS, the war-making power
represented by the industries owned
or controlled by I. G. FARBENINDUST-
RIE A. G. constitutes'a major threat to
the peace and security of the post-war
world so-leng as such industries remain
within the control of Germany;

WHEREAS, it is essential to the
objectives of the United Nations to take
over the direction and control of I. G.
FARBENINDUSTRIE A. G. and to seize
possession of its property in order to
bring about its destruction and the
war-making potential which it repres-
ents and;

--- Page 12 ---
WHEREAS, it is intended that the prop-
erty seized will be placed at the dispos-
ition of the Control Council (Germany),
when such action is desired by the
Control Council;

IT IS HEREBY ORDERED:

1. All the property within the United
States Zone in Germany owned or
controlled, directly or indirectly, by I.
‘G. FARBENINDUSTRIE A. G., a corpor-
ation organized and existing under and
by virtue of the laws of Germany with
seat and head office at Frankfurt a.
Main, is hereby specifed under para-
graph 1 (g) of Military Government
Law No. 52 to be subject to seizure of
possession, direction, and control by
Military Government.

- 2. The direction and control of I. G.

FARBENINDUSTRIE A. G. and the
possession of all its property in the
United States Zone are hereby seized
by the Military Governor, United States
Zone.

3. Pending the assumption of control
of such property by the Control Coun-
cil, or an agency thereof, all the powers
of the Military Governor, United Stat-
es Zone, with respect to the property
seized pursuant hereto and with respect
to the direction and control of the cor-
poration are hereby delegated to the
Deputy Military “ Governor — United
States Zone. Redelegation-of any or all
such powers is hereby authorized. In
the exercise of such powers, the Deputy
Military Governor, United States Zone,
or any person acting by or under his
authority with respect to the property
affected hereby shall not be subject to
German Law.

4. In the exercjse of such powers the
Deputy Military Governor, or any per-
son acting by or under his authority

with respect to such property, shall be
guided by the general objectives stated
in the preamble hereof and by the

following specific objectives, and will
take such measures as he deems ap-

propriate to accomplish them:

a. The making available to devastated
non-enemy countries of Europe and to
the United Nations, in accordance with
such. programs of relief, restitution and
reparations as may be decided upon, of
any of the property seized under this
order and, in particular, of laboratories,
plants and equipment which produce
chemicals, synthetic petroleum and rub-
ber, magnesum and aluminum and other
non-ferrous metals, iron and_ steel,
machine tools, and heavy machinery;

’

b. Destruction of all ‘property seized
under this order and not transferred
under the provisions of paragraph a.
above if adapted to the production of
arms, ammunition, poison gas, explos-
ives, and other implements of war, or
any parts, components or ingredients
designed for incorporation in the fore-
going, and not of at type generally
used in the industries permitted to
operate within Germany;

c. Dispersion of the ownership and
control of such of the plants and equip-
ment seized under this order as have
not been transferred or destroyed
pursuant to paragraphs a. andb. above.

5. a. The entire management of I. G.
FARBENINDUSTRIE A. G., including
but not limited to the supervising board
(Aufsichtsrat), the board of directors
(Vorstand), and directors (Direktorium)
and all other persons, whether office-
holders or not, who are empowered,
either alone or with others, to bind or
sign for or on behalf of I. G. FARBEN-

--- Page 13 ---
INDUSTRIE A. G. are forthwith removed
and discharged and deprived of all
authority to act with respect to. the
corporation or its property.

b. The rights of shareholders in res-
pect of selection of management or
control of I. G. FARBENINDUSTRIE
A. G. are suspended.

The Drive to

MILITARY Government in the US zone
is progressively achieving one of the
United Nations major war aims: the
complete eradication of Nazism in Ger-
many.

The goal of Military Government in
this field was succinctly stated in the
declaration issued at the Yalta Con-
ference. It asserted that the United Na-
tions were determined ”to destroy Ger-
man militarism and Nazism” and
remove all Nazi and military influences
from public offices and from the cul-
tural and economic life of the German
people.”

A large share of the responsibility
for accomplishing this military mission
has been placed by directive upon the
11,000 officers and enlisted men who
comprise the Military Government staffs
and detachments deployed throughout
the US-controlled area.

It is to them that the rest of the Army
— from the generals to the privates —
and the entire American public look for
results. Numerous letters from combat
veterans have told of their burning
interest in the question. Few other
subjects are receiving more constant-

"to:

10

6. Article IV of Military Government
Law No. 52 shall not be applicable to
any property or enterprise affected by
this General Order. ,

7. This General Order shall become
effective on 5 July 1945

BY ORDER OF MILITARY GOVERN-
MENT.

End Nazism

and critical attention from the press of
the world.

The success of Military Government
in the US Zone will depend largely on
how well and how soon de-Nazification
is accomplished. It is now a matter of
top priority for all Military Govern-
ment detachments.

That the problems involved are
augean in scope is recognized in all
quarters. The German body politic has
to be reconstructed from the ground
up; simultaneously it must be dis-
infected.

To the Military Government officer in
a small Landkreis, confronted with the
possibility of total administrative and
communal collapse, de-Nazification is a
perplexing question. His mission is to
find capable public officials, he has to
get the food-supply machinery in opera-
tion, the utilities working, a police
force in action, some of the essential
financial and industrial enterprises mov-
ing. At the same time, he must seek cut
and remove the Nazis. All too often,
particularly in the more important posi-
tions, it seems that the only men with
the qualifications and experience re-

--- Page 14 ---
quisite for the job are the incumbent
career civil servants — a great propor-
tion of whom were more than nominal
participants in the activities of the
Nazi Party.

When it is considered that more than
300,000 officials and employes were
working in governmental units in the
US zone before the German surrender,
the magnitude of the task becomes
evident. The number of people_to be
checked and re-checked for Nazi back-
grounds increases enormously as_ the
employment rolls of utilities and other
quasi-public agencies, plus those of key
business, industrial and financial enter-
prises are included.

SURVEY REPORT TAKEN

Definite progress has already been
made. The US Group CC recently re-
ported that within the two-month period
following V-E Day, almost 50,000 Nazis
were arrested by the Army’s security
services in Germany. These Nazis have
been placed in jails and detention camps
throughout the US-controlled area.

Arrests, averaging 200 a day during
the first week of May, have risen to
700 daily. This rate is expected to con-
tinue and perhaps to increase for some
time to come.

The initial accomplishments of Mili-
tary Government detachments in root-
ing out Nazis were shown in the results
of a partial survey just completed by
G-5, Headquarters USFET. More than
216 detachments operating at all
administrative levels throughout the
US zone were questioned.

The survey disclosed that these Mili-
tary Government terms have already
removed from office: more than 31,200
Nazis in addition to those arrested.

11

More than 5,700 other Nazis fled
their posts before the arrival of the
Allied forces. (It should be pointed out
here, however, that the. overall total of
37,000 includes a few Nazis who were
expelled from posts or who fled from
areas no longer under US Army control.)

The bare statistics tell only a fraction
of the story. The important factor is
that the number of ousted Nazis com-
prises the most important and danger-
ous elements.

More basic still is the fact that the
mandatory abrogation by Military Gov-
ernment of numerous Nazi - created °
agencies, such as the Gau units and the
Deutsche Arbeitsfront, has resulted in
the automatic group removal of many
more thousands of Nazis from German
political life. .

A study of field reports reveals that
most Military Government officers have
found it necessary to adopt a priority
system. They have concentrated at
first on removing Nazis from the
influential civil administration policy-
making posts. Land ministers, Landrate
and Biirgermeisters have been dis-
missed. Police chiefs, supply, fiscal and
labor officials have been discharged.

MINOR INCUMBENTS

Now that the Nazis have been largely
dislodged from key civil administrative
posts, the big task ahead will be to turn
our effort to the less important civil
servants. Careful attention must also be
given at once to de-Nazifying such
utilities as railroads, gas works, electri-
city plants and telephone services, as
well as banking and industrial organi-
sations.

The detachments with the best de-
Nazification records are those with
commanding officers who have demon-

--- Page 15 ---
strated a real determination to get the
job done and to get it done
thoroughly.

Some detachments appear to have
lagged because they have depended too
heavily on local CIC units for assistance.
The CIC has rendered splendid aid in
this regard. However, since the respon-
sibility for de-Nazification rests in the
last analysis with the Military Govern-
ment officer, it is up to him to press
his own investigations.

The establishment and backing of
Special Branches have, therefore, been
found to pay high dividends in terms
of results. :

‘Some detachments are reported to
have -misinterpreted the meaning and
intent of the CIC clearance. The clear-
ance signifies merely that the particular
Nazi represents no threat to the mili-
tary security of the armed forces. It
should not be construed as an endorse-
ment of the particular Nazi’s fitness to
hold or retain office. It is for the Mili-
tary Government officer to determine
whether any individual cleared by CIC
should be barred from holding office
because of past Nazi affiliations.

Once the Nazis have been discovered
and removed, the next step is to replace
them. Here, the difficulty of locating
trained and competent substitutes, free
from Nazi taint, has been one of the
greatest obstacles to immediate and
peremptory de-Nazification.

It is no easy decision for the Military
Government officer to dismiss the only
waterworks engineer of his city because
he was an active Nazi. The decision must

12

be made, however. Experience has
shown that, as a general rule, another
man, perhaps not as experienced, but
still sufficiently capable, can always Le
found, usually from lower levels in the
same organisation.

NAZIS NOT INDISPENSABLE

Reports from the field have indicated
that some Military Government officers
have been prone to believe Nazis who
proclaimed their own indispensability.
Others have been misled by the pro-
testations of innocence of many Nazis
who now are professing their complete
rejection of the very Nazi ideas to
which they long adhered.

Detachment commanders who have
adopted the policy that ”No Nazi is in-
dispensable” have proved that effective
administration can be accomplished
without the services of such individuals.

A_summary of the de-Nazification
situation throughout the US zone of
control at this time indicates that while
much has been done, much remains to
be done.

Some 80,000 officials and employees
have been appointed to govermental
posts. More than 170,000 others are due
to be selected.

Military Government officers must
maintain unceasing vigilaice to insure
that no Nazi gets another opportunity
to exert any influence. in Germany.
Only in this way will Military Govern-
ment satisfy the demands of the living
and the dead who fought to end forever
the evil and tyranny of the Nazi state.

--- Page 16 ---
USFET Proclamation No. 1

TO INSURE the validity and
continuity of legal enactments
promulgated prior to the establ-
ishment of the US Zone of Mili-
tary Government in Germany,
General Dwight D. Eisenhower
in Proclamation No. 1 for this
zone has decreed that all such
proclamations, laws, ordinances,
notices, regulations and direc-
tions will remain in force unless
specifically revoked or modified
by him or under his authority.

The Proclamation follows:
MILITARY GOVERNMENT - GERMANY
UNITED STATES ZONE
PROCLAMATION No. 1

To the People of Germany:

I, General Dwight D. Eisenhower,
Commanding General, United States
Armed Forces in Europe, do hereby
proclaim as follows:

I

As announced on 5 June 1945, sup-
reme authority with respect to Germany
has been assumed by the Governments
of the United States, the United King-
dom, the Union of Socialist Soviet
Republics, and the Provisional Govern-
ment of the French Republic.

Il

The United States Zone of Occupa-
tion is occupied by United Forces under
my command and a Military Govern-
ment under my authority is established
therein. All persons in such Government
Zone will obey immediately and without
question all of the enactments and
orders continued in effect or issued by
me or under my authority.

Ill

All Military Government and other
orders (including proclamations, laws,
ordinances, notices, regulations and
directions) issued by or under the
authority of the Supreme Commander,
Allied Expeditionary Force, are con-
tinued in full force and effect in the
United States Zone of Occupation ex-
cept as specifically revoked or modified
by me or under my authority. In apply-
ing such orders now outstanding within
this Zone, all references to Supreme
Commander, to Allied Expeditionary
Force, and to Allied Military Authori--
ties shall be construed as referring from
this date forward to the Commanding
General, United States Armed Forces in
Europe, to the Armed Forces of the
United States in Germany, and to the
United States Military Authorities in
Germany respectively.

IV

All appointments heretofore made and
all authorization heretofore issued by
order of Military Government or other-
wise under the authority of the Supreme
Commander, Allied Expeditionary Force,
shall continue to be in full force and
effect according to their terms until
revoked or modified by me or under
my authority.

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
General of the Army
Commanding General of the
United States Armed Forces
in Europe.

Dated: 14 July 1945.

13

--- Page 17 ---
Licenses for Newspapers and Publishers

IN REPLY to the many requests from
detachment commanders for informa-
tion concerning relicensing of German
newspapers and publishing houses, Maj.
Douglas Waples, Chief of the Publica-
tions Section of Information Control
Division of USFET, emphasizes that the
main responsibility rests with the District
Information Control Command units
(DISCC). The position of Military Gov-
ernment detachments” he declares, will
be that.of an intermediary between the
prospective publishers and the DISCC
units, which will do the necessary pro-
cessing.”

In connection with the licensing of
publishers, the function. of the Mil. Gov.
detachment is to supply the applicant
with the necessary Fragebogen forms
and then forward the completed applic-
ations to the District Control Command.

At this point, publications officers
from DISCC will take over, thereby
relieving the detachment of further
responsibility. It is likely, however,
that there may be cases in which
transportation difficulties will make it
necessary for the DISCC to communi-
cate with the applicant through the
detachment.

The major responsiblility of de-
tachments,” according to ICD, ”is to
post Law No. 191 (Amended) and In-
formation Control Regulation No. 1 as
widely as possible throughout the area.”
The documents, printed both in German
and English texts on the same poster,
set forth the conditions under which
the publishing of periodicals, the opera-
tion of news services and the production
of motion pictures may take place. The
posters can be obtained from the DISCC.

14

Once the Mil. Gov. Detachment has
posted the combination law and control
regulation, the procedure is as follows:

Upon request of a German publisher
to be relicensed, the detachment will
furnish the applicant with the usual
military Fragebogen (MGI/IC/A, MGiIC/
C and MGI/IC/D). After the Fragebogen
have been completed, they will be mailed
to the commanding’ officer of the
DISCC (Attention: Chief Publications
Officer) of the district in which the
detachment is located.

“Following the receipt of the applica-
tions, the DISCC will take over, and
upon completion of its investigation,
the local detachment will be noti-
fied of the result. Should the application
be approved, the responsibility for
supervision will remain with the DISCC.

The District Information Service
Control Command in the US area of
occupation is divided into two districts:
the Eastern District, which includes all
of Bavaria except Kreis Lindau;
and the Western District, which embra-
ces all other US-controlled territory.

All detachments located in the
Eastern District should contact Capt.
John R. Roser, Chief Publications Offi-
cer of DISCC 6870, APO 757. Col. B. B.
McMahon is commanding officer.

In the Western District detachments
should address all communications re-
garding information control to Lt. Col.
John Stanly, Commanding’ Officer,
DISCC 6871, APO 655. Chief Publica-
tions Officer for the Western District
is Capt. Harold Bass.

--- Page 18 ---
First Newspaper Licensed

THE Frankfurter Rundschau, the first
German-sponsored publication organiz-
ed in the US zone, has been licensed by
the Information Control Division © of
USFET.

The Rundschau will have, as an editor-
ial staff, a board of six German publ-
ishers, representing the largest anti-
Nazi political and religious groups in
the area. Official ceremonies marking
the occasion will be held on 1 August.
The first issue of the newspaper will
probably be placed on sale in Frankfurt
at the same time. Although all news
which appears in the paper will be
censored by the ICD, the publication will
be completely staffed by Germans.

Efforts are being made now to
institute other German-owned news-
papers in large cities in the US zone.
Mr. Luther Conant, chief of the ICD
Press Section, is now in Berlin investi-
gating the possibilities of a proposed
newspaper in the US-controlled section

of the city. Other papers are being
currently planned for Munich and
Wiesbaden.

FIAT Contacts Detachments

LT. GEN. Lucius D. Clay, Deputy Mili-
tary Governor, has directed that person-
nel accredited to the Field Information
Agency, Technical (US) will have
authority to collect technical informa-
tion, especially that of a scientific and
industrial nature, in any desired locality
in the US zone.

The objective of FIAT is to coordinate,
integrate and direct the activities of

various agencies interested in examin-
ing all information’ pertaining to Ger-
man economy, other than direct mili-
tary intelligence. FIAT will provide
centralized information services and
facilities covering this technical intelli-
gence field.

According to Gen. Clay, FIAT. mis-
sions will be furnished with special
credentials, directing all military author-
ities in US-occupied territory to facil.
itate their work by any practicable
means which may be requested. These
means, it is explained, will include
the freezing of any and all targets which
may be designated and the arrest,
internment and removal of Germans
who may be of interest. FIAT’s authority
will be limited only by over-riding
considerations of major military neces-
sity or security.

ICD News Bulletin

A NEWS bureau to provide a daily
file and bulletin of internal German
news is to be established by Informa-
tion Control Division, US Group CC,

» formerly PWD, SHAEF. It will be avail-

able for distribution to interested Mili- -
tary Government agencies, as well as
licensed German newspapers. Reporters
from the Information Control Division’s
News Bureau will circulate in the US
zone in search of news, and will, from
time to time, call upon Military Govern-
ment detachments for local Military
Government and community news. It
should be possible for these News
Bureau reporters to obtain significant
items of news from the staffs and
detachments.

15

--- Page 19 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

De-Nazification and the Anti-Nazis

DESPITE the fact that political meet-
ings of anti-Nazis are still forbidden
and, while nothing approximating a
political party has been able to emerge,
certain recent stirrings of opinion may
well be called political. Invariably these
stirrings deal with problems of local
government. It would be inaccurate to
suppose that they represent the attitude
of the average German civilian, but as
the articulate expressions of advance
anti-Nazi elements they are certainly
worth noting.

To these elements, the most popular
Allied policy is undoubtedly de-nazifica-
tion. They concur wholeheartedly in
the ideology of the policy but frequent-
ly quarrel with the practice. Treating
the occupation as a_ revolutionary
situation, they tend to bring revolution-
ary concepts to the solution of its
problems. For them essential justice
requires a reversal in the classic Greek
sense: “Bring low those who were high,
raise up those who were. low.” While
they are highly aware of the tremend-
ous number of arrests of Nazis that
have been made, they are inclined to
dwell too much upon those Nazis who
have been permitted temporarily to
remain in office. They accept as normal
that some Nazis have been dismissed;
they concentrate rather upon those who
have not.

They understand that government in
action depends at least as much upon
the minor administrator as.on the high

16

policy-making official, for they know
that policy control is not self-execut-
ing. They tend, therefore, to direct
their grievances against the offi-
cial who determines whether you get
gasoline for your car, the official who
determines what workers you may get
for your factory, the official who deter-
mines the details of food-distribution.
In all these situations they maintain that
the purge has not been thorough
enough. And they can cite cases.

The other criticism of de-nazifica-
tion in practice is that it does not
go low enough, and that it fails to cut
through the substance of the German
economy. Here the complaints are sim-
ilar to those in France. Why, it is asked,
is Herr Y, a known Nazi, given gaso-
line for his car? Why is Herr Z, an old
Party member, permitted to remain in
his dwelling while anti-Nazis are driven
out for requisitioning? The items do
not have to be read. The average Ger-
man requires no special vetting proced-
ure to know whether his neighbor was
an ardent Nazi; what he fails to realize
is that Military Government does.

Since minor appointments to the
German administration are, in practice,
largely effected by the Oberbiirger-
meister or equivalent German official,
criticism by the anti-Nazi group is
often directed largely against the kev
German representative charged with
implementing the Allied policy of de-
nazification.

--- Page 20 ---
Released Prisoners

WHEN Allied troop first overran
Nazi concentration camps, observers
were struck by the marked indifference
to the welfare of the inmates shown by
the German civilians living nearby. It
seemed, at first, that the civilians had
no intention of voluntarily offering
assistance to the tortured human béings
who remained in the compounds. It
required direct Allied orders to force
German civilians to help alleviate the
sufferings of the internees. However,
recently, with the return to their homes
of former German inmates and the
strengthening of anti-Nazi sentiment,
welfare. efforts, designed to rehabilitate
German political prisoners, have been
reported in advance areas.

One such venture was instituted in
Kassel, where the local. Oberbuerger-
meister, in cooperation with Military
Government, set up a Special Welfare
Office under the direction of an ex-con-
centration camp inmate. In the first six
weeks of its existence 680 persons had
passed through its offices. Fifty-six of
these were returning internees from the
Kassel district; 62 were persons inquir-
ing for relatives who had not as yet
returned; and the rest were men
and women being ,repatriated from
parts of Germany other than Kassel.
The Kassel Special Welfare Office pro-
vides billets for the night or, for those
too utterly exhausted to continue their
journey, convalescence for a few days.
Double rations are issued to them dur-
ing their stay and, if they are without
money, they are given 10 RM on their
departure.

Naturally the main effort of the or-
ganisation is toward the rehabilitation
of former prisoners who live in the

17

Kassel area. Medical aid is administered
where possikle by the Kassel health
officer. The convalescent home has ac-
commodation for more than 20 people
at a time. The facilities of this home
have been extended to political pris-
oners in the villages neighboring Kas-
sel; in exchange, voluntary contribu-
tions of food have been received from
these villages. Financial aid is extended
in the form of a subsidy of 50 RM to
150 RM; in some cases continuous aid
is given until the person finds work.

The local chief of the Special Welfare
Office states: ”We are not wooing your
[Military Government] favor. We want
to gain recognition for reliability by
continuing our work. The great task
of reconstruction lies ahead of us. We
must prevent chaos. The Nazis could
only flourish on chaos. Chaos is fertile
ground for dictators. One day the time
will come when you will recognize that
there are many decent people among the
Germans”.

Soldiers on the Road Back

A REPORT from 21 Army Group Dis-
charge Control Centers presents a pic-
ture of overwhelming indifference, for
the moment, to broader questions of
politics among the German soldiers
awaiting demobilization. At Miinster,
for example, between 800 and 1000
members of theWehrmacht, largely farm-
ers, are being demobilized daily. Pure-
ly personal worries are uppermost in
the minds of .these soldiers — a not
uncharacteristic soldier attitude, to be
sure. Concern about their families has
been heightened by the long lack of
news from home. The breakdown of
German postal services in the latter
months of hostilities, combined with the

--- Page 21 ---
rapid advance of the Allied armies, has
meant that most prisoners in this camp
have received no news for many months,
some for nearly a year.

Like many German civilians, the de-
feated soldiers view the Nazi system as
a "bad thing,” not because of its im-
moral deeds and aims, but because Nat-
ional Socialism failed and, in failing,
brought Germany to defeat. While they
read newspapers avidly, the soldiers are
interested primarily in items affecting
them directly. The discussion of moral
questions, of war crimes, appears to
leave them cold. Strangely enough, the
most uncooperative attitude is shown
by troops who never fought and, conse-
quently, did not witness the full impact
of defeat. Front-line fighting troops
seem to carry out orders more willingly,
perhaps due to habit and training.

Former Propagandists

IT WOULD appear that former Nazi
propagandists, particularly those holding

18

minor positions, have to a considerable
degree been taken in by their own prop-
aganda themes about the Allies. Re-
cently two who were interrogated by
American officers seemed convinced of
the truth of such Nazi theories as the
basic naiveté of Americans concerning
European affairs with particular emplia-
sis on the detailed working of the Nazi
Reich; the falsity of American declara-
tions concerning Allied fighting aims
(which are only shams to cover their
imperialistic designs); the softness and
sentimentalism of the American who
can always be made to fall for sob
stories; the stupidity of Americans who
can be made to believe any idea which
is skilfully presented.

One of the propagandists interviewed
ran the entire gamut of Nazi anti-sem-
itic slogans from "Jews don’t fight but
always start wars” to: ’The pogram of
1938 occurred because German patience
was at an end.”

--- Page 22 ---
LESSONS FROM OPERATIONS

THIS WEEKLY section will
contain detachment news items,
so edited as to provide a mutual
exchange of ideas and sug-
gestions of assistance in solving
the varied problem of Military
Government. Items of this type
and letters containing suggest-
ions and recommendations are
requested by this section, and
should be addressed to USFET,
G-5, Information Branch.

Control of Requisitioning

TO CONTROL indiscriminate requisit-
ioning by military units on private
stocks, it has been decided. by E1F3 to
notify all Bayern Detachments to in-
struct Biirgermeisters that no merchant
or factory is to deliver goods to mili-
tary units unless ETO SOP 10G (Pro-
curement Regulations) are complied
with and a properly apointed P. C.
Officer presents form 6G —(Requisition
Receipt). In case of doubt, the merchant
or factory owner is to consult the local
Military Government Officer. To enable
the Bavarian Landeswirtschaftsamt to
control distribution and have know-
ledge of civil stock balances in all areas,
merchants and factories report all re-
quisitions by military units to the Biir-
germeister, who reports to the local
Detachment for transmission to the
Regional Military Supply Officer.

Running the Transport Pool
INSTRUCTIONS are being issued by

the Director of Harbors and Traffic of -

Bremen to all garages, battery and tire-

19

repair shops that they will confine all
repair service to the Civil Transport
Pool. Any additional work to be done
must be approved through Military Gov-
ernment channels. These instructions
will enable the Transport Pool to estim-
ate more readily the number of vehicles
available at all times.

Complete Message Center

ONE of the most complete message
centers operated in Germany is main-
tained by Major Lewis S. Swinehart’s
Vilsbiburg detachment. The message
center contains everything needed for
the proper control of messages, from
in and out registers to automatic
suspense files. In a recent tour, the
inspecting USFET officer reported that
this outstanding team owes much of its
operational excellence to the effeciency
of its message center.

Who sees the Oberbiirgermeister
IN ORDER to maintain administrative
control with a minimum of friction, all .
civilian authorities outside of the Land-
Stadtkreis must first clear with the
Bremen detachment before contacting
the Oberbiirgermeister.

Screening Procedure

THE establishment of civil administra-
tion is proceeding steadily, but with
great care in Schrobenhausen. The MGO
is following the strictest directive on
denazification, making ineligible for
public office all those who have ever
been party members. In the selection of
replacements Captain Hill, the MGO,
uses a novel screening process, sending

--- Page 23 ---
into a Gemeinde first a German in whom
he places reliance, followed in turn by
employees of the detachment, and end-
ing with a sergeant who speaks German
_ fluently. Each works independently in
talking with the inhabitants of the Ge-
meinde and compiles a list of possible
selectees. Finally all four lists are screen-
ed to select a few names appearing most
often on ail lists. The MGO, on the basis
of the information collected, and usu-
ally after a personal visit, himself makes
the selection after consultation with the
Landrat. The MGO then requires the
Buergermeister to sign a questionnaire,
prepared by him and designed to as-
certain whether he understands his mini-
mum duties, including the test question:
”Are you willing publicly to denounce
Hitler and the principles of National
Socialism?” He also sends the Buerger-
meister a set of first instructions, em-
phasizing denazification. The MGO
supervises Military Government by
daily meetings with the Landrat and
by a weekly meeting of all 38 Buerger-
-meisters, who are rounded up by a
special bus.

Relations with CIC

*SOME detachments place too much
reliance in CIC in the vetting of per-
sonnel. CIC can be very helpful in
screening officials and reviewing their
Fragebogen, but Military Government
should realise that the ultimate re-
sponsibility for determining who is to
remain in office is that of the detach-
ment exercising Military Government
supervision of the area. More positive
action in the selection and vetting of
officials should, therefore, be taken by
Military Government, utilizing CIC or

were

20

other intelligence agencies and records
available.” — Col. Henry Parkman, Jr.,
following a recent USFET tour of in-
spection.

Nazi-Sympathizing Employers

AT A conference with the civil labor
head, Detachment EI.F3, Bavaria, direct-
ed that any employee who felt he had a
just complaint against a Nazi-sympathi-
zing employer should bring his case to
the attention of the Arbeitsamt. The
Arbeitsamt, after directing the petitioner
to return to his work, would appoint
a commitee of several representative
workers to gather evidence for present-
ation, through the Arbeitsamt, to the
Detachment Labor. Officer.

100°/o De-Nazification

DE-NAZIFICATION in‘Rottenburg has
been 100% completed. All 75 public offi-
cials have been replaced in this city of
30,000, which is due, in a large part, to
the willingness of the Mil. Gov. detach-
ment commander to listen to respon-
sible anti-Nazis among the civilian pop-
ulation. The citizens - voluntarily
pooled their information concerning
Nazis still holding public office and
submitted this information to Capt. G.,
who found that, in many cases, Nazis
included in the non-automatic
removal class.

Applications for Travel Passes

POLICE have taken responsibility for
the processing of applications for travel
passes in Kaiserslautern. It is anticipated
that a more effective check will be
maintained as a result, because the

--- Page 24 ---
police records’ on civilian population
are again current. Moreover, being no
longer burdened with this detail, the
Buergermeister’s office will be able to
devote more time to administrative
problems.

. Operational Police Force

BREMEN ’s local police force has been
placed under the Oberbuergermeister’s
direct authority for operational emer-
gencies, but remains subject to clearance
with Military Government.

Releasing Blocked Accounts

ARRANGEMENTS were made with the
Reichsbank to notify individuals whose
accounts were no longer blocked by
the Bremen Detachment and whose sus-
pensions had been cancelled. This noti-
fication would serve as a permit to enter
the bank and secure the release of the
account.

21

Processing Plants for Winter Surpluses

REPORT on food industries of Bavaria
indicates that all Military Government
Detachments should make every effort
to restore processing plants. Since this
is the time of the year to-accumulate a
‘stock of food for the winter, it is neces-
sary to put into operation food pro-
cessing plants at the earliest possible
date.

Pancreatic Glands to Insulin
MANUFACTURE of insulin has been
resumed at I. G. Farben, Hoechst plant,
using the yield of the newly organized
collection of pancreatic glands. from

slaughter houses in the US zone.

Good Liaison Pays Off
BECAUSE of the excellent liaison which
exists with the 4th Armored. Division,
the Landshut detachment has succeeded
in coordinating the regulations of all
tactical troops dispersed in its area.

--- Page 25 ---
PERSONAL DATA

Back to the States

Capt S. B. Bernard, 0920298, JAGD,
Det. F1H3

ist Lt O. B. Carl, 0507520, CE, R&T Bn.
(Relieved from active duty)

Lt Col C. S. Edward, 0325289, FA, R
& T Bn.

Ist Lt W. S. Elliott, 01004238, AGD,
Det. DP—11

Capt E. B. George, 0909959, AC. R & T
Bn. (Relieved from active duty)

Ist Lt B. L. James, 0526818, AUS, Det. |

E1C3
Capt W. B. John, 0407433, FA, Det.
13G3 :
Promotions
TO COLONEL

Lt Col R. N. James, 0317571, CAC, Det.
E1A2

Lt Col P. P. James, 021017, MC, ECA
Medical Group

Lt Col K. P. John, 0193473, CAC, R&T
Bn.

TO 1st LIEUTENANT
2nd Lt V. F. William, 01646178, R&T Bn.

TO CWO

WOJG C. A. Charles,
SHAEF
WOJG B. E. Victor, W216414, H2G3

Awards
LEGION OF MERIT
Capt Peter Ball, DP—2

BRONZE STAR _

Col Walker L. Cisler, SHAEF, G—5

Col Leon E. Dostert, SHAEF, G—5

Maj Alphonse E. Drankowski, SHAEF,
G—5 ,

Cpl Robert L. LeFever, Sr., 2d ECA Regt

Maj James A. Franklin, Det E1D2

Capt Anthony J. Gioia

Maj Edwin H. Hughes, E1D2

T/4 John Maglio; SHAEF, G—5

W2109434, DS

22

Lt Col Douglas W. Meservey, Det E2C2
Capt John B. Mulford, Det 11C2
CWO Bernard J. Ratigan, Jr., Det E1D2
2nd Lt John Roberts, SHAEF, G—5
Col Stephen B. Story, SHAEF, G—5
Ist Lt Burt A. Sturdevan, Hq & Sv Co.,
2d ECA Regt

Lt Col Ben Thibodeaux, SHAEF, G—5
Capt Robert T. Whelan, Hq 2d ECA Regt

BRONZE STAR-OAK LEAF CLUSTER
Col Leon E. Dostert, SHAEF, G—5

LEGION OF HONOR - DEGREE
OF OFFICER

Maj Gen Warren F. Draper, SHAEF.
G—5

Maj Gen Frank F. Scowden, SHAEF, G-5

LEGION OF HONOR - DEGREE
OF CHEVALIER

Col Bernard Bernstein, SHAEF, G—5
Col Walker L. Cisler, SHAEF, G—5
Col Homer W. Jones, SHAEF, G—5
Brig Gen Frank J. McSherry, SHAEF,
G—5
COMMANDER OF THE. BATH
Maj Gen Warren F. Draper, SHAEF,
G—5
Maj Gen Frank F. Scowden. SHAEF,
G—5
COMMANDER OF THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Brig Gen Frank J. McSherry, SHAEF,
G—5
Brig Gen Stanley R. Mickelsen, SHAEF,
G—5

ORDER OF THE BRITISH EMPIRE

Col Malcolm C. Bauer, SHAEF, G—5
Col Walker L. Cisler, SHAEF, G—5
Col A. H. Moffitt, Jr., SHAEF. G—5
Lt Col K. T. Moseley, SHAEF, G—5
Col Hayden N. Smith, SHAEF, G—5

MEMBER OF THE BRITISH EMPIRE

CWO Arthur Goings, SHAEF, G—5
Lt (sg) M. M. Goodsill, SHAEF, G—5
Capt Lucille G. Odbert, SHAEF, G—5

--- Page 26 ---
PRESS COMMENTS

General Trends Observed in the Press

RAYMOND DANIEL, writing in the N.
Y. Times of 8 July, points out that a
noticeable difference between the Rus-
sian Army method of occupation and
the US-British is that the Soviets are
perforce a foraging army, dependent
upon the German land to keep them
fed, while we are self-sufficient. Lacking
the food resources, packing facilities,
and mechanized transport of the United
States, the Russians are forced to live
off the country. All the Allies, com-
ments Daniell, announced that they en-
tered Germany as conquerors, but the
Russians alone act as though they meant
it. Daniell is of the opinion that the
Russians have a definite, well-formula-
ted policy, primarily that Germany will
never again threaten their security. On
the other hand, there is all too little
evidence that we or the British have
such a clear idea of what we want to
do with the Reich. Perhaps the problem
is complicated by the fact that both
nations are still preoccupied with the
Japanese War.

IN A STRONGLY worded editorial entit-
led ”*AMGOT Again” theWashington Post
continues its recent sharp criticism of
US Military Government officers. The
editorial refers to ”gross ineptitude on
the part of Mil Gov officials in that
part of Germany which is under Ameri-
can Administration,’ and_ specifically
points to Austria and the existence of
contradictory regulations, ignorance of

23

local customs, inability to distinguish
between Nazis and anti-Nazis and ab-
rupt and irrational changes in policy
and personnel. But the most frequent
and bitterest complaints, says the editor-
ial, concern the lack of tact and cour-
tesy on the part of certain officers and
non-commissioned officers in dealing
with civilian employees recruited from
the local population. The Austrians were
quite prepared for stern measures, but
could not understand our rudeness. One
employee was quoted: as having com-
mented that the Americans "out-Prus-
sian the Prussians”, which he had not
thought possible. The Post concludes its
criticism by stating that the more in-
telligent Austrians perceive that such
behavior merely betrays the inherent
weakness of our administration, namely,
the lack of any real purpose or object
in dealing with the conquered. This
results in our officers governing accord-
ing to their own temperamental vag-
aries and caprices.

IN AN editorial of July Ist 1945,
the Washington (D. C.) Post argues
that our Military Government person-
nel has been badly handicapped in its
work by language difficulties and lack
of knowledge of economic conditions
within Germany. As a solution, the edit-
orial suggests that the Army make use
of the many men and women of Ger-
man descent now living in the United
States, whose technical knowledge and

--- Page 27 ---
inside information regarding German
social and economic conditions would
be invaluable to Military Government.

The Post points to the restrictions set

up by the State Department governing
the usé of naturalized German citizens
in Military Government, sees no reason
for the existence of a rule discrimina-
ting against German-born citizens who
can meet searching tests of reliability,
and who possess knowledge that Mili-
tary Government could use. On the
contrary, great gain would result from
such employment.

. Rehabilitation

ON 6 JULY the N. Y. Times published
an AP dispatch covering the report of
the U.S. Senate War Investigating Com-
mittee to the effect that the German
Reich would soon be leading its neigh-
boring European countries in recover-
ing from the war. There is a tendency
on the part of the Army, stated the
Committee, to lose interest in France,
in French industry and in French rehab-
ilitation. On the other hand, in order
to maintain and supply the Army of
Occupation in Germany, vigorous efforts
are being made to re-establish its trans-
port system and some of its industry.
Thus the German economy is benefitting,
and our enemies are being rehabilitated
faster than our allies. While German lab-
or is employed and paid, French work-
men are suffering from serious unem-
ployment on account of lack of raw
materials.

Coal

AN ARTICLE in the N. Y. Times of 30
June states that Germany, which in
normal times produced 140,000,000 tons

24

of coal annually and exported 50,000,000,
can be made to supply the major port-
ion of the European need. At present
Germany produces 7 per cent of her cap-
acity, but Allied measures are expected
to augment this output soon. The
35,000,000 tons of coal expected to be
produced this year can provide only a
bare minimum of European needs,
merely the operation of essential trans-
portation and other public services, and
the movement and processing of essen-
tial foodstuffs.

De-Nazification

IN THE N.Y. Times of 30 June John
MacCormac writes that representatives
of the three democratic parties which
make up the provisional government of
the Austrian Tyrol complain that under
American control former Nazi leaders
were being retained in office and con-
firmed in their posts. It was claimed
that as a result of their social status
and knowledge of English, wives and
daughters of SS officials had been able
to obtain positions as interpreters and
in other ways to exercise an influence
on American Military Government. As
a result, Nazis believe there will be
another Nazi government in Austria
within two years. ’We are anything but
satisfied with progress made in purging
Nazis from official posts,”. said one
of the Social Democrat leaders... .
“We don’t for a moment accuse the
American Military Government of bad
faith in all this, merely of ignorance of
Austrian conditions. Why don’t they
leave it to the Austrian anti-Nazi parties
to purge the Nazis? We know who they
are and how to do it.” Similar allegat-
ions have come from other parts of
US-occupied Austria.

--- Page 28 ---
Food

ON 6 JULY the Philadelphia Bulletin
announced that the maximum normal
ration for German civilians had been
increased from 1150 to 1550 calories
per day. In comparison, US Army per-
sonnel has a daily calory consumption
of 4,000 while the US civilian peace-
time average was 2500 to 3000 per day.
However, being allowed a ration does
not necessarily mean that one. will ob-
tain it. In the Charlottenburg area of
Berlin the people have not seen potat-
oes in weeks, and have only had fresh
vegetables once since June 20th. No
fresh fruit at all is ‘available.

Russel Hill in the N. Y. Herald Tribune
of July 2nd writes that the impression
he received while driving through the
German countryside was that of a land
of plentiful crops, where nearly every
acre of soil’ seems to be exploited to
best advantage. Everybody is engaged
in getting out the hay — old men,
women and children, and there are many
fields of potatoes, spinach, beets, and
lettuce ripening under the sun. This
impression of plenty is no_ illusion.
The G-5 section of 12th Army Group
Hq has estimated that in the US zone
between 90 and 100 percent of the areas
normally sown have been planted this
year. American Military Government
authorities are doing everything in their
power to help the food crop. Captured
Wehrmacht horses are being turned

25

over for agricultural needs, and farmer
PWs are getting high discharge priorit-
ies. Mil Gov officers even have opened
farm-employment offices for idle city
labor.

Displaced Persons

THE Christian Science Monitor on 5
July published a story by William H.
Stringer praising the results achieved
by SHAEF G-5 officials in having al-
ready repatriated 3,260,000 out. of

5,800,000 homeless people found in Ger-

many. The article states that the
Western Allies are at least making real
headway in the tremendous task of car-
ing for the unhappy millions of slave
laborers, political, racial and war pris-
oners press-ganged by the Nazis. The
shift towards using UNRRA instead of
Army personnel has now begun and by
the end of summer it is expected that
UNRRA will have assumed complete
responsibility. The facts seem to be that
SHAEF’s directives and over-all inten-
tions are good, but occasionally local
commanders have not made sufficient
effort to improve the environment in
the slave camps. The writer corrobor-
ates War Department statements to the
effect that the displaced person problem
was one of the most complicated and
urgent matters that confronted the
Allies when the German Army collapsed.

--- Page 29 ---
QUERIES

EACH week, under this co-
lumn heading, typical problems
received through channels by
Hq USFET -Branches, will be
considered by specialist . officers.
Official reply will be transmitted
through channels and summaries
thereof will appear in this
section.

Legal

WHAT is the power of Reviewing
Authority to substitute fine for impris-
onment?

A Summary Military Court senten-
ced an accused to one year imprison-
ment. The Reviewing Authority on pet-
ition for review suspended the sentence
and imposed a fine of RM 1,000, instead
of substituting the fine for all or a por-
tion of the sentence and imposing a
prison term in default of payment of
the fine not in excess of the original
sentence.

Concurring with the opinion of the
Legal Officer at Army, this Headquart-
ers has advised that a Reviewing Au-
thority had no power to take such ac-
tion. The action was erroneous in that
it, in effect, increased the sentence of
the court, since the prison term was
‘merely suspended. If the suspended
sentence had been put into: effect, the
result would have been a prison, term
of one year plus a fine. Similarly, if a
term in default of payment of the fine
had been imposed, as it should have
been, then upon default and upon remov-
al of the suspension, the accused might
have. been imprisoned for more than
one year. Instructions were given that
the proper procedure was to vacate or
reduce the term and to impose a fine
and term of imprisonment in default

26

of payment. The alternative sentence
should not be in excess of the term im-
posed by the court, or when added to
the portion not vacated, be in excess
of such term.

Education

Q. WHAT action is taken by local
detachments preparatory to’ opening the
first eight years of elementary schools
in Germany ?

A. Before submitting an application
to USFET requesting permission to
open schools in Germany, three condit-
ions should be fulfilled: namely prepar-
ation of school buildings, vetting of
teachers, and provision for textbooks.
When these investigations and prepar-
ations have been completed, the forms
appearing under Appendices B and C
in the Technical Manual for Education
and Religious Affairs should be complet-
ed and forwarded to USFET.

Finance

Q. GERMAN bankers have asked for
instructions concerning payment or
extension of maturity on German
bonds. What reply can be given?

A. Until quadripartite agreement and
in the absence of further instructions,
Mil Gov officers must answer all en-
quiries on the public debt by stating
that they have no instructions and no
opinion; that they can not authorize
the extension of maturity nor direct
the Reichsbank or any other bank to
accept or to reject such bonds when
offered for payment on extension of
maturity, and finally that they have no
instructions concerning the servicing of
any such debts.

--- Page 30 ---


--- Page 31 ---


--- Page 32 ---
IN FUTURE ISSUES MAP
OF EASTERN DISTRICT
SHOWING LOCATION
OF DETACHMENTS WILL
APPEAR IN THIS SPACE

--- Page 33 ---
