--- Page 2 ---
—
No. 9 — 22 SEPTEMBER 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF
G-5 DIVISION
U. S. FORCES, EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
PNA

}———
a ZONE —,

=

~—

iN

E2c2

BREMEN ENCLAVE RUSSIAN ZONE

— MAIN ROUTES IST @ 2ND CL
-~ DISTRICT ROAD IST CLASS

=SWITZERLAND AUSTRIA

— SOURCE: G-5, USFET ~ STATISTICS SECTION =
+ SEC GEN STAFF USFET-

A we —— —

--- Page 4 ---
Nb. 9 — 22 SEPTEMBER 1945 _

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY |
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE
ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF
G-5 DIVISION ©
U.S. FORCES, EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
CONTENTS

%

PAGE
General Eisenhower Reaffirms Total Denazification. . . .. 5
HIGHLIGHTS OF:POLICY . . . 2... 2. 2. 6
Policies on Replacement of Military Government Personnel 7
Féreign Currency Conversion Doe ee we ee ee 12
GENERAL... 2. 1
New Books for German Schools . . . . . 1... . . 14
Control Your Food Lines . ' 15
. Frankfurt Stock Exchange Reopens ’ 15
Civilian Mail Service Resumed Coe ee ee 16
War Diaries Discontinued ... . . Ce te 16
Information Control Licenses . . 2... 1°. 1. 17,
GERMAN REAGTIONS ...:........ 18
The “Plight” of.the Innocent Young Nazi . . . . . . 18
Lo, The Poor Militarist- 6 6 2 2 0. NY
* War Commemoration. . . . . 2. 1 1 ww. 20
LESSONS FROM. OPERATIONS ........ 21
PRESS COMMENTS .....,...... 4... 23
Occupation of Japan Viewed as "Soff® 2°. , 2 6 2 23
- RuhrRound-Up . . . 27. 2.) ee ee 2b
The German Mind. 2... 2... 2
Europe and German Industy . . . . 2... 2... 25
Random Comments . . . . ..... 2... ~. 25
_ PERSONAL DATA... 2

--- Page 7 ---
General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower

--- Page 8 ---
GENERAL EISENHOWER REAFFIRMS
TOTAL DENAZIFICATION

General Eisenhower has reinforced his policy on denazifi-
cation by the following instructions to the major commands in
this Theater:

"As you know, | have announced a firm policy of uprooting _
the whole Nazi organization regardless of the fact that we may
sometimes suffer from local administrative inefficiency. Reduced
to its fundamentals, the United States entered this war as a foe
of Nazism; victory is not complete until we have eliminated from
positions of responsibility and, in appropriate cases properly

punished, every active adherent to the Nazi Party.

"| know that certain field commanders have felt that some
modifications to this policy should be made. That question’:has
long since been decided. We will not compromise with Nazism
in any way. | wish you would make patticularly sure that all of
your subordinate commanders realize that the discussiogal stage
of this question is long past and .any expressed opposition to
the faithful execution of the order cannot be regarded leniently '
by me. | expect just as loyal service ‘in the execution of this
and other policies Epplying to the German occupation as |

received during the war.” ’

--- Page 9 ---
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

*

MILITARY GOVERNMENT DIRECTIVES AND
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED THIS WEEK

Each week, there will appear on this page a complete list
of directives and instructions issued to Military Government in
the field. This list is published for the information of all field

personnel.

Amendment No. 3 to SHAEF Military Gov-
ernment, Germany, Technical Manual for
Labor Officers-Instructions to Military Gov-
ernment Detachments Concerning Provision
of Emergency Shelter . . . . . « . . 10 September 1945

‘

GE/Econ - 461 (TM)

Administration of Military Government in

the U.S. Zone in Germany. (Amendments

to Sections 1 and 3) (Reissue). . . . . 27 August 1945
~AG014.1GEC-AGO

Military Government Weekly Field Report .15 September 1945

--- Page 10 ---
Policies on Replacement of Military
Government Personnel

NUMEROUS inquiries have been direc-
ted -recently to G-5, USFET,. concerning
the "civilianization” of Military Govern-
ment. As announced by ACOS, G-5, in
the course of the recent Military Gov-
ernment conference held at USFET Head-
quarters, 27-29 August, a program*has
been under consideration for some time
whereby military personnel both in the

Theater’ and in the Zone of - Interior
might seek discharge from military
service and carry out . occupational

duties in Germany in a civilian capacity.
A-gteat deal of work remains to be
done before a definite program can be
completed and approved in all its details,
but.the project:is going forward rapidly
under the direction of a steéring com-
mittee composed of representatives of
G-5, U.S..Group. CC, and the Civilian
Personnel Branch of G-1.

-The.Committee is guided by, an out-
line plan which was recently approved
by. the Chief of Staff after. concurrence
hy G-1 Division, USFET, and the Deputy
Mijtery Governor.

tn: ‘broad outline the plan. provides
that all duties performed by officers
and enlisted men in all phases of Mili-
tary Government (including staff, de-
tachment, and administrative functions)
will be analyzed, and _ that thereafter
appropriate job descriptions will be
drawn up and the Military Government
duties classified. After classification, a
rate-of pay commensurate with the
duties to be performed will be estab-

lished for, each position. The pay scale’

has not been determined, as yet, and
cannot be determined until. the. duties

are classified. It will conform generally,
however, to the scale employed in other
U.S. civil service systems where the pay
ranges, after taking overseas dif-
ferentials into account, from 1,500
dollars per annum minimum to 10,000
dollars per annum maximum.

Once the plan is put into effect, all
military personnel in this Theater and
and in the Zone of Interior and all U.S.
citizens in civilian life will be eligible
to apply for the positions. Preference,
however, will be given to military per-
sonnel in this Theater. In the case of
military personnel they will, if accepted,
be discharged from the military service
regardiess of their _ adjusted service
ratings and carry out their occupational
duties in a civilian capacity.

Certain terms and conditions of
employment are set forth in the basic
outline ptan. They are as follows:

a. Applicants will be required to meet
minimum physical standards and to
possess necessary qualifications for
Military Government .work.

b. The minimum period of duty will
normally be 12 months with a provision
for renewal, subject, however, to the
power of the United States to terminate
the contract at any time on 30 days’
notice.

c: The tour of duty will be 48 hours
per week and 8 hours per day with
overtime paid for all hours in. excess cf
40 in accordance with present Federai
Pay Aet. :

d. Necessary medical care and hos-
pitalization will be furnished by. the
Army at no cost to the employee.

--- Page 11 ---
e. Quarters will be charged at the rate
fixed by Theater regulations.

f. Messing facilities will be furnished
by the Army.

g. Employees will be extended
purchase privileges at Post Exchanges
and Quartermaster Sales Stores.

h. Employees will. be subject to the
Articles of War, as provided in Article
of War 2:

i. Employees will be provided trans-
portation at government expense from
their overseas stations to their places
of residence under any of _ these
conditions:

(1) Completion of contract’ and as-
signment.

(2) For convenience of government.

(3) Failure to qualify through no fault
of the employee.

(4) Compelling personal reasons ac-
ceptable to the employer.

(5) Illness or injury not incurred as a
result of the employee’s own mis-
conduct and neglect.

j. Annual and sick leave will be pro-
vided for-all civilian employees.

One feature of the plan which is of
particular interest is that military per-
sonnel in this Theater who are ac-
cepted for civilian employment will be
returned to the U.S. on leave status for
30 days exclusive of travel time. They
will not be discharged from military
service until they have returned to the
ETO.

The plan also foresees the possibility,
when conditions improve, of allowing
wives and minor children to come to
Germany. It states that the wives and
minor children of civilian employees
will be brought over under the same

conditions as may be applicable to mili-
tary personnel on occupational duty in
the Theater.

There is no element of compulsion
inherent in the plan. It will ibe left

entirely to the option of military per-

sonnel whether they wish to continue
in- the military service or to assume a
civilian status. On the other hand there
is no obligation on the part of the gov-
ernment to accept the application of
every officer and enlisted man. One of
the principal objectives of the plan is to
fill Military Government positions with
qualified personnel who. are willing to
remain in Germany for a period of
at least 12 months following their dt-
ceptance. The mere fact that an officer
holds a certain rank will not qualify hit
for classification in a given group. The
fact that a man is not an officer will
not disqualify him from attaining a
certain group. A number of factors such
as education, prior civilian experience,
and experience in Military Governmetit
will be taken into consideration in clas-
sifying each applicant for a civilian
position in Military Government. The
system will thus be closely comparable
to-the classified civil service system
which exists in all of the civilian depart-
ments of the U.S. Government.

_ In accordance with this plan, the
following directive was issued recently
by U.S. Forces European Theater:

Civilian Employment with Military |
Government, European Theater

1. CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES NEEDED

1. There is an urgent need for ex-
service personnel’ to serve as civilian
employees with the Military Govern-
ment. Applications are now being ac-

--- Page 12 ---
cepted from military personnel, officer
or enlisted, who are eligible for
discharge in the European Theater to
accept employment as civilians with the
Occupation Forces. Military -Govern-
ment personnel will be needed in the
following fields: economics, manpower,
" public utilities, transportation, public
safety, health, agriculture, forestry,
communications, finance, property con-
trol, displaced persons and welfare, gov-
ernmental affairs, supply, legal, monu-

ments and fine arts, education and re-

ligion, executive, administrative and

clerical activities.

2. Preliminary information concerning
this employment is given below.

Il. HOW TO MAKE APPLICATION

3. Certain military personnel in the
European Theater may apply for dis-
charge and employment as_ civilians.
European Theater Civilian Personnel
Circular No. 3 of 26 July 1945, subject:
"Utilization of Discharged Military Per-
sonnel as Civilian Employees of United
States Forces in the European Theater”,
states basic information in this connec-
tion. The above-mentioned circular is
now being’ revised. Until such time as
an amended circular is issued, the
following application procedure will be
followed:

a. Applications for positions with the
Military Government will be initiated by
executing Standard Form No. 57 ”Ap-
plication for Federal Employment,” or
facsimile thereof in duplicate. The ori-
ginal application will be expedited
through the channels prescribed in Sec-
tion V, Civilian Personnel Circular No.
3. The duplicate application will be for-
warded direct, by the applicant, to Head-
quarters, United States Forces, European

Theater, Attention: Assistant Chief of
Staff, G-5, APO 757.

b. It is desired to receive such appli-
cations as early as possible in order to
estimate recruitment needs. All appli-
cants will fully state their work ex-
perience while in the armed forces as
well as experience attained prior to mili-
tary service. In the case of enlisted per-
sonnel, particular care will be taken to
describe duties and abilities involving
responsibilities above those usually as-
sociated with enlisted grades.

c. Copies of Standard Form No. 57
will be available in Headquarters, United
States Group Control Council; Head-
quarters, United States Forces, European
Theater (Main), AGO Civilian Personnel
Office; Headquarters, Theater Service
Forces, European Theater (Rear); the
two District Headquarters; and at the
Second and Third Military Governmen
Regimental Headquarters. Supplies of
this form may be obtained from the
Adjutant General’s office,’ this head-
quarters.

Ili, LEAVE PRIVILEGES

4. An applicant accepted will be allowed,
within. quota limitations, to return — to
the United States, under military orders,
for a recuperation period there of thirty
(30) days and will be returned to the
Theater for military discharge and ap-
pointment as a War Department civilian
employee with the Occupation Forces.
Circular No. 114, this headquarters,
dated 21 August 1945, subject: Return
of Personnel to United States for
Rehabilitation, Recuperation and Re-
covery”, as amended by Circular No.
115, is nowgpeing further amended to
permit this action. The rehabilitation
period referred to above will be con-

--- Page 13 ---
sidered in ‘lieu of any accrued military
leave.

5. During employment as a civilian
in the. Theater, annual leave of twenty-
six (26).days per year and sick leave
of fifteen (15) days per year will accrue
and may be accumulated up to a total
of one hundred and four (104) days and
ninety (90) days respectively. Leave is
granted for such times, and in such
amounts as the employment unit deems
it feasible, and upon separation from
the Federal Service the employee will
receive a lump-sum payment for any
unused annual leave.

IV. TYPE OF APPOINTMENT
OFFERED.

6. Military personnel who are eligible
for discharge in the European Theater
will receive final payment from the local
(disbursing officer and will be immedia-
tely appointed to a civilian position.
Appointments will be under Schedule
A-1-7 of Civil Service Rules and employ-
ment will be under conditions as pres-
cribed in the Civil Service Law, Rules
and Regulations, and War Department
Civilian Personnel Policies. Merit System
appointments ‘require that all per-
sonnel be selected and placed on the
basis of qualifications and adaptability to
positions in the Military Government
and not on the basis of their present
grade or rating. .

V. SALARY

7. Discharged. military personnel: ac-
cepted for civilian, employment will: be
paid a basic, per annum. rate, established
by ‘the: Federal: Employeeg Pay Act. of
1945: and: will receive in’ addition ‘a 25%
increase of the basic: per: annum «rate

10

as an overseas allowance. The base per
annum rate is compensation for a 40-
hour work week, and whenever em-
ployees are required to work beyond 40
hours, overtime payments ‘will be made.

g. Until positions have been, graded
in accordance with Classification Act of °
1923, as amended, no_ exact salary
scales can be stated. In general, however,

salary will fall into the following
groupings: ~
Positions Range of Basic
Compensation*
Executive 5000 to 10000
Specialist & Professional 3700 to 9000
Administrative © 3700 to 7800
Technician 2000 to 3300
Clerical 1900 to .3300

9. 5% of the basic compensation rate
will be deducted as contribution to the
Civil Service Retirement Fund. Under
certain circumstances. the amount. de-
posited is returned upon separation
from the service.

VI. CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT

-10. Individuals accepting employment
in the European Theater will ordinarily
serve in a civilian capacity for not less
than twelve (12) months.

11. Billets for civilian personnel in the
European Theater will be made available
at a cost established by Theater direc-
tives; -the present cost is 15 dollars per
month. ‘Meals will be made available ‘at
a cost established by Theater directives:
generally the present charge for each
meal is 25 cents. Medical, dental, and
hospital services are furnished without
charge. Post Exchange and- Quarter-

*The ‘above stipulated basic compensaticA
includes the 25°/o. overseas allowance.

Hy

--- Page 14 ---
master Sales Store privileges are extend-
ed to civilians.

VII. RETURN TO THE UNITED STATES

12. Discharged military personnel ac-
cepting employment in a civilian ca-
pacity in the theater are, ~upon  dis-
charge, paid travel expenses by the dis-
bursing officer from’New York City to
the point of their original enlistment
location or where called to active duty.
Civilian employees will be returned to
the United States at government expense
under any of the following. conditions:

a. Completion. of contract and as-

signment. ,
b. For convenience of the government.

c. Failure to qualify through no fault
of the employee.

d.Employee’s compelling personal
reasons acceptable to the employer.

e. Illness or injury not incurred as the
.resuit of the employee’s misconduct
and neglect.

13. The employee will be required to
bear the entire cost of return trans-
portation, including subsistence from
the overseas station to the port of de-
barkation when the cause for separation
from the service is for reasons of un-
satisfactory conduct, unsatisfactory ser-
‘vice, or failure to serve the entire agreed
period of employment (except as speci-
_fied'in paragraph 12, above).

11

VII. IMMEDIATE FAMILIES

14. No definite announcement can be
made at this time concerning bringing
families overseas. It is hoped that con-
ditions will permit immediate families
to be brought to the Theater by the
middle of 1946.

IX. APPLICABILITY OF FUTURE LAWS
POLICIES AND REGULATIONS

15. The above-stated conditions of
employment are explanations of current
conditions and do not constitute a con-
tract. United States resident citizens
are employed under laws or regulations
effecting Federal employment in the
United States but are subject to the
provisions of any ‘current or future
statutes or restrictive War Department
or Theater regulations relating to
United States government personnel,
positions, property or funds.

X. DIRECTIVE

16. Commanding officers will make
known to all United States military per-
sonnel under their respective. juris-
dictions the need for civilian employees
in the Military Government and will
have this letter posted on all bulletin
boards. The originat applications (See
paragraph 3a above) ‘will be expedited
through channels with the least prac-
ticable delay. oo

--- Page 15 ---
Foreign Currency Conversion

CONTROL over the conversion of a
country’s currency into that of another
— foreign exchange transactions — is
one of the elemental features of any
program which requires control over a
country’s financial position. In pre-
paration for and during the war the
Germans strictly regulated, and, in fact,
severely curtailed the exchange of Ger-
man currency for foreign currency.
Germany was fighting a financial and
economic war long before 1939. She
needed to acquire for military purposes
all the foreign exchange which her
people could supply, and foreign. cur-
rencies are, of course, foreign exchange.
The German people were not, therefore,
permitted to exchange Reichsmarks for
foreign currency unless the foreign
currencies to be acquired would be used
.to further Nazi aims. The Allies must
maintain tight controls over German
currency conversion and foreign ex-
change transactions but for a distinctly
different reason.

German ¢onversion controls. must
prevent Germany from again building
up hoards of funds concealed abroad
to be used for purposes contrary to
Allied objectives. In order to, do this, it
is necessary that all transfers of assets
into or out of Germany, as well as all
international financial communications,
be adequately controlled.

The sources of foreign exchange
available to Germany can be divided
into two general classes. Making up the
first class are the foreign assets (invest-
ments abroad, funds deposited in
foreign banks, foreign securities, etc.)
held abroad by the Germans as‘ of the
end of this war. Most of these funds are

12

.

hidden and not held openly by Ger-
many. It is important that while we are
undertaking investigations and_ re-
quiring reports designed to uncover the
Germans’ foreign assets, no uncontrol-
led transactions be permitted which
would enable these assets to be de-
posited or transferred into new and bet-
ter hiding places.

The second type of foreign exchange
will be that which will result from such
foreign trade and international trans-
actions as are permitted. Here, too, it is
important that the controls be effective
in order to insure that the foreign ex-
change acquired as a result of these
transactions is not permitted to be
hidden abroad or to be used in a man-
ner contrary with Allied objectives.

FIRST CLAIM

As is indicated in the Potsdam Agree-
ment, funds necessary to pay for im-
ports into Germany will be a first claim
against foreign exchange acquired by
Germany as a result of her exports. It
is also evident from the Potsdam
Declaration that Germany’s external as-
sets will be used in payment of re-
parations. We must not again, as we
did after the last World War, let Ger-
many’s alleged inability to pay re-*
parations, or to pay for needed imports,
permit the building up of substantial
amounts of assets in foreign countries.

As a first step in the establishment of
effective controls, Military Government
has issued Law No. 53 which prohibits
any foreign financial transactions not
specifically licensed by Military Gov-
ernment. Similar controls exist in the
other zones of occupation. When’ Ger-

--- Page 16 ---
mans are again allowed to communicate
with other countries, postal and tele-
graphic censorship. of Military Govern-
ment will buttress the financial controls.
Devious back-door methods of evading
such controls to convert local funds and
hide wealth abroad can be prevented by
the scrutiny of all communications
going in or out of Germany. Close co-
operation between censorship and the
Finance Branch particularly in regard
to all communications relating to fin-
ancial matters can do much to prevent
Germany from effecting in the post-
war. period financial transfers inimical
to Allied interests.

During these early phases of our oc-
cupation a certain type currency con-
version became necessary. It was essen-
tial that our troops here be paid in a
currency which they could spend in
Germany. While no commercial rate of
exchange between the dollar and the
mark or the. mark and any other cur-
rency has been established, our troops
have been paid at the rate of ten marks
to the dollar and 40 marks to the pound
sterling. The establishment of a
general rate of exchange for the mark
for use other than the conversion of
troop pay has not been effected. The
rate established for pay of Allied troops
was a special’military rate for the pay-
ment of our forces and to facilitate ac-
counting in connection with procure-
ment of goods and services by our
forces in Germany. It was not intended
to fix the future general rate.

The repatriation of displaced and

4

13

stateless persons gives rise to certain
financial problems. Involving as it does
the movement of a large number of
persons across international boundaries,
it was imperative that these movements
not afford a channel for the circum-
vention of the requirements of Law 53
that all foreign exchange resources be
frozen. Special arrangements’ were,
however, worked out in order to fa-
cilitate the return of these people to
their country of origin or residence in
a way which would adequately — safe-
guard our interest without handicap-
ping the operations necessary to their
return.

PROBLEMS WILL ARISE

Problems of a similar nature will
arise as a result of the return to Ger-
many of large numbers of Germans —
prisoners of war as well as civilians —
who may have in their possession
foreign exchange assets. Although the
lack of a rate of exchange to be used
for this purpose prevents the immediate
conversion of these assets to marks,
steps are being taken to ensure that all
such assets are immediately frozen and
subjected to our financial controls.

The basic problem is that~ of en-
suring that no uncontrolled financial
transaction involving foreign. exchange
assets take place. As long as such trans-
actions are subjected to our control,
care can be taken to ensure that their
results will be consistent with Allied
objectives. ,

--- Page 17 ---
GENERAL |

‘New Books for German Schools

THE. EMERGENCY set of German
textbooks now. being . distributed
throughout the U.S. Zone consists of 20
titles for grades I through VIII. Several
hundred books were examined by British
and American Military Government au-
thorities before this selection was made.
Microfilm copies of ‘several famous Ger-
man textbook collections, such. as the
one at -Teacher’s College, Columbia
Univ., New York City, were studied
carefully. The result is a selection of the

best texts available in these fields:
readers, arithmetics, histories, nature
study books and literature. There has

been no revision of content by Military
Government the books are all
straight reproductions of textbooks that
were in use in Germany before.the Nazi
era.

5,450,000 were printed and bound
under Military Government supervision
in about 75 days’ time — somewhat of
a record under the production con-
ditions encountered. Original plates for
the books were made in England. Pa-
pier-mache mats were then made from
these plates and, book by book, flown
to Munich. Here all the printing and
binding equipment in a 75-mile radius
was organized to begin immediate: pro-
duction. Casting from the mats flown
in took place the day after they left
England. Two paper mills were placed
in full production to produce the
hundreds of tons of paper needed. High-
speed rotary. presses were adapted to

14

handle the special page set-ups needed
in textbook printing. Advertisements
over the radio for anyone who had ever
worked in a bindery brought sufficient
bindery help to maintain a 24-hour
schedule. Germany was scoured for
printing and binding supplies. ,

On ‘september 19th, the distribution
of all books, grades I through IV, was
completed. The cost of the books was
met by the German governments of the
varous Land and Regierungsbezirk
areas and the books will be distributed
free to children in those areas. Distri-
butions of books, grades V through
VIII, will be completed by October 10th.

The seven Land/Regierungsbezirk gov-
,ernments of the U. S. Zone, and the
Berlin, Bremen and Frankfurt areas, will
act as distribution centers for those

. textbooks required in their areas.

Quantities of textbooks furnished
will be governed by the following fac-
tors:

a. School attendance by grades’ for
each Land/Regierungsbezirk area furnis-
hed this Headquarters 7 September 1945.

b. Total title
available.

c. With the exception of ”Min Biich”
and Meine Kleine Bunte Welt’, rations
will be the same for all areas.

quantities of each

TO BE NOTIFIED

Approximately one week before
collecting date, each Land/Regierungs-

--- Page 18 ---
bezirk will receive the
. formation: p

a. Quantity of books in shipment. .

following in-

b, Total cost of shipment.

c. Amount of motor ‘transport re-
quired, using as a scale 25,000 texts to
one 2% ton 6 x 6 truck.

d. Approximate warehouse space re-
quired.

It will then be the responsibility of
MGO’s at each Land/Regierungsbezirk
to:

a. Despatch proper amount of trans-
portation as a convoy so that it will
arrive in Munich the evening previous
to collecting date (convoy commanders
reporting to: MG Visitors’ Bureau, 28
Ludwigstr, Munich, with travel orders,
for mess and billets).

b. Instruct convoy commanders that
trucks must be at warehouse by 0830
hours, the specified date.

c. See that a check covering the cost
of. the books is properly made out and
in the possession of the convoy com-
- mander for presentation on receipt of
books.

BOOKS FOR 1945-46

The quantities of books furnished are
final for the school year 1945-46. It is
therefore suggested that any break-
down quota made by each Land/Regie-
_rungsbezirk should. include a small re-

‘ serve pool held out for possible emer-
gency demands in. their area during the
year.

Cost of the textbooks for a given
Land/Regierungsbezirk area will be born
by the Land/Regierungsbezirk govern-
ment of that area. Books will be furn-
ished at actual production costs. Land
Bavaria will initially bear the production
costs of the entire project pending

15

proper reimbursement by the other
Land/Regierungsbezirk areas. Payment
will be made. on receipt of books.
Checks on Reichsbank funds are to be
made out to: Finance Minister, Bavaria.
Land/Regierungsbezirk Officers. will be
notified one week before collecting
dates (Books for Grades I—IV, Sep. 12-
18; Grades V—VIII, Oct 1-6), of the ex-
act total cost of quantities to be
furnished.

Control Your Food Lines

Observations made in various com-
munities disclose the need for better
control of civilians in food lines. With
the advance of cold weather it is anti-
cipated that food lines will become in-
creasingly large.

All police under your jurisdiction
should be instructed to regulate and
control all persons in food lines, and to
have such lines in single file in such a
manner as not to obstruct traffic, either
civilian or vehicular. ,

The exercise of proper control over
food lines will not only expedite dis-
tribution of food-stuffs and allow a
continuous flow of vital traffic through
city streets, but will also keep to a mini-
mum accidents resulting from over-
crowding.

Frankfurt Stock ‘Exchange
Re-opens

On 22 August 1945, in accordance
with authority granted by Headquarters,
U.S. Forces, European Theater, the
stock exchange of Frankfurt a/Main was
permitted to resume operations. This
stock ‘exchange, before occupation,
ranked as the. second largest in Ger-

--- Page 19 ---
many, immediately behind the Berlin
Exchange. "Instructions to Stock. and
Commodity Exchange and. Their Mem-
bers No. 1, as contained on page 114
of Financial and Property Control
Manual, Germany,” was delivered to
officials of the Chamber of Commerce
and Banks, who are to regulate the
operations of the exchange.

In accordance with the general au-
thority granted for the opening of the
stock exchange, the following is a list
of conditions under which the exchange
will operate:

(a) Military Government agencies
will not become involved in any of the
administrative problems posed by the
operation of the exchange.

(b) Operations of the exchange will
conform with existing Military Govern-
ment and German laws.

(c) Military Government agencies, ex-
cept as provided for in Military Govern-
ment laws, will not designate, define or
limit types or character of securities to
be dealt or traded in.

Until conditions are such as to permit
the organization of the exchange on a
basis comparable with its former or-
ganization, its affairs and operations
will be controlled by a committee of
five, nominated by the President of the
Chamber of Commerce and vetted and
approved by Military Government. The
duties. and responsibilities of this com-
mittee will be to designate the time, place
and procedures to be followed for
future sessions of the exchange; to
designate classes and types of securities
that may be dealt in, in accordance with
present Military Government and Ger-
man laws; to designate and nominate
brokers to handle the details of sales
and purchases; to -prescribe regulations

16

to insure that the operation of the ex-
change accords with existing laws; and
to begin the creation of organizational
and legal foundations necessary for its
operation on a normal pre-occupation
basis. ;

Periodic checks will be made by
Finance officers of the Frankfurt Mili-
tary Government to insure that Mili-
tary Government laws are complied
with, and to insure that no wild or
unauthorized speculation is carried on
by the exchange.

Civilian Mail Service Resumed

EFFECTIVE 10 September, civilian
mail service was extended to all points
in the area occupied by Seventh U.S.
Army. Service includes all forms of mail
service now authorized: namely, post-
card, letter, and parcel post service.

Parcel post service is being organized
parallel with the inter-regional ex-
pansion of mail service, subject only to
such limitations as may be imposed by
Reichspost transportation facilities. Full
advantage will be taken of all existing
railroad lines. In this connection, the
Reichspost has been directed to submit
an estimate of rail car requirements so
that the necessary allocations may be
coordinated through Military Govern-
ment transportation channels.

War Diaries Discontinued

MILITARY Government detachments
are no longer required to prepare war
diaries, the Historical Section of the
G-5 Division, Hq., USFET, announced
this week.

Monthly ‘historical reports, required
of all detachments, will be the sole field

--- Page 20 ---
report requirement of the Historical
Section. These reports are prepared by
part-time historians on Kreis and Re-
gierungsbezirk levels, and by full-time
historians at the regional level. Regional
historians consolidate material submit-
ted by lower echelons and add the orig-
inal reports to their own as appen-
dices. .

Information Control Licenses

THE DISTRICT Information Services
Control Commands find that there is
some delay in receiving applications for
Information Control licenses initiated

17

by civilians, because the Military Gov-
vernment detachments are not for-
warding these applications direct to the
DISCC. They ‘have been channeling them
either through the G-5 Section of
Armies, or, in the case of the Western
Military District, through the In-
formation Control Section of Seventh
Army Headquarters. Detachments are
reminded that they are authorized to
utilize functional channels to communi-
cate directly with the DISCCs. Staff Sec-
tions at District Headquarters, and Land
and Regierungsbezirk Military Govern-
ment detachments have nothing to do
with processing licensing or registration
for Information Control.

--- Page 21 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

The "Plight" of the Innocent Young Nazi

THE MAJOR part of a complaint sub-
mitted to the "Frankfurter Rundschau”
by a young Nazi against’ the “un-
deserved” position he and_ his fellows
find themselves in is reproduced, with
some paraphrasing, below. The author
can hardly be termed self-critical or
logical (for after insisting at the out-
set that he will not seek to excuse him-
self he proceeds to do it at great
length). But his letter does have the
virtue of revealing a considerable seg-
ment of the young, Nazi-bred mind
which is seeking to re-orient itself in a
world of new values. It should help re-
mind us, too, that the temper of this
mind some years hence will in large
measure determine what goals Germany
will try.to follow.

Should I begin by asking pardon for
having belonged to the Party, the Stu-
dentenbund, or perhaps even to the Hit-
ler Youth? I shan’t, for that would. imply
self-accusation, and of what have I to
accuse myself? I was brought up care-
fully in the Protestant faith and then
came the contrary influences of the Hit-
ler Youth. You know that ideals deter-
mine the thoughts and actions of youth
between the ages of fourteen and twen-
ty. And didn’t the Nazis preach ideals
to us which could’ enflame an honorable,
upright person who didn’t possess the
critical faculty (as the older generation
should have) for detecting the falseness

18

of these ideals? I believed enthusias-
tically all that was told me for twelve
years, and the awakening was the
greatest disappointment of my life. But
I’m not the only one; millions of young
people stand before the ruins of their
idealism as they do before the ruins of
their homes. What attitude are you
going to take toward people of my
category? Are you going to apply the
same yardstick as you do toward other
Party Members-who stand there be-
wildered and try tearfully to swear that
only an evil fate had driven them into
the arms of Nazi ideology? We young
people don’t have to make such a
miserable plea. We certainly didn’t give
this system its power in 1933.) If ac-
cusations are to be made then we must
accuse those who led us into this dilem-
ma, and those who, either from coward-
lines or convenience, didn’t know how
to prevent it. We should accuse all the
teachers who after 1933 lent themselves
to the teaching of the new views; and
the professors who taught this stuff;
too, or by retaining their position
showed, either that they supported the
regime or didn’t dare to oppose it...
I want to point to the peculiar position
in which the young person of today
finds himself: on the one hand it is ex-

plained to him that he is almost a
criminal for having dared to succumb
to the pressure of Nazi rule, to su-

bordinate himself to its wishes, and to

--- Page 22 ---
have even formally entered the Party —
the last being a step which at the time
seemed to any ambitious young person
the right way to get ahead. On the
other hand, there are many smart men
who knew how to avoid danger: they
never expressed themselves against -the
Party (which would have meant the loss
of their position), but they never came
out clearly. for it by joining the Party
because ’conditions might change.’ |
can’t respect those people who suddenly
insist that ’they knew’ what was going
on, but who for twelve years never
dared tell the young people the truth.

”On returning from the war I called
first at the university where a friendly
section had -explained that I couldn’t
take up my studies again because I had
formerly belonged to the Party. It was
the same man who not more than a
year ago was telling the same thing to
people whose ’racial background was
suspect’.

”T speak in the name of all those who,
like | do, ask: What intentions do Ger-
many’s new men have? Quite realistical-
ly considered, phere are two possibili-
ties: They can condemn in advance every
young person who was educated by the
Third Reich and who in good faith
joined the Party. Or: They can show
that they want to employ the healthy
energies of the youth, even if they don’t
fulfill the formal requirements made of

signs of a definite weakening of the
traditional German respect for the mili-
tary —— but experience should warn ‘us
to wait for real and considerable proof
that the Germans are thinking of: be-
coming sincerely peaceful political
animals. :

The German Army emerged from the
first World War, as we know too well,
with its prestige relatively unshaken and
its soldiers in general regarded as de-
fenders of the homeland. This time the
army leaders, as well as the Nazis for
whom they worked, have been sheared

. of most their glory, and many a re-

the older generation. Only in the latter .

case can the young German really
believe in a democracy and he will, then,
if he is honest, be willing to cooperate
according to his powers.”

Lo, The Poor Militarist

_° INFORMATION — emanating from
_ Wiirttemberg would point to hopeful

19

‘turning common soldier, too, is finding
on his arrival home that his risk of life
and limb has not gained him much pre-
ferred, soldier-hero treatment from his
civilian neighbors. What some Germans
call an anti-militaristic trend is reflected
in the fact that returning draftees, not
just career soldiers, complain that they
are looked upon by some of their neigh-
bors as ’militarists.” Maybe the defeat is
really soaking in this time. Upon being
refused any consideration in getting his
old job back one ex-Wehrmacht man is
reported to have burst out in disgust:
”Here we've been fighting for six years
and now we come home to get
nothing.” To this his former employer
or employer’s representative replied:
*That’s just the trouble, you’ve, been
fighting and that’s what we’re all suffer-
ing for now.” Reserve officers complain
of particular discrimination, surprised to
find the taint of militarism increasing
with rank.

In viewing this apparent trend toward
a sinking of the military in public
esteem, one can only conjecture on how
much it is due to a genuine revulsion of
the people against anything reminding
them of war, how much simply to sel-

--- Page 23 ---
fish motives of 4-F’s and other stay-at-
homes, and how much to a half-involun-
tary reaction on the part of some Ger-
mans to our express intention of
thorougly ‘demilitarizing the country.
As _ex-Wehrmacht officers return they
‘may ‘be dismayed to find themselves
definitely persona non grata with Mili-
tary Government, just as the Nazis are,
for they fail to reflect that the Nazis
dared and were able to do all they did
by virtue of the power of the Wehr-
macht.

War Commemoration

DESPITE the present lowered prestige
of the Wehrmacht which, it is our hope,
will be permanent, a veteran of the last
war believes that the German people
will in the natural course of events
proceed. to establishing a national at-
titude toward the second world war and

insist on some sort of commemorative -

program. Our outlawing of veterans
organizations will not be resented, he is
sure, as, the soldiers returning this time
aré so disgusted with the fruitlessness
of their efforts that they want to forget
the war as much as possible; there is

thus little desire for such active and
articulate veterans’ groups as the
STAHLHELM that followed World
War I. ,

The war cannot, however, be passed

20

by as if it had never. happened and as
if the personal participation of the sol-
diers and the suffering it entailed had
not been.real. The veteran in question
believes that Military Government, in
the interests of its own policy and to
prevent the formation of distorted
attitudes and possibly a_ resurgent
glorification of the German war effort,
should seek to channelize the natural
urge for commemorative expression
along lines consistent with its de-
militarization aims. He thinks that in the
present fluidity of circumstance the
German people are in a state of mind
favorable to the success of such a pro-
gram, and that Military Government
should take advantage of this fact.

In the years following 1919 the vet-
erans organizations drew their strength
and solidarity from the conviction of
the majority of soldiers that they had
honorably fought a purely defensive
war, according to our informant. This
time, he avers, the soldiers have entirely
different feelings. Many of them realize
that their sacrifice and their effort re-
presented a criminal and catastrophic
misuse of German national strength as
a whole, and of the Army as its protec-
tive organization. It is perhaps - with
this latter theme as a guide, he suggests,
that Military Government might work
out a program for the controlled com-
memoration of a deservedly disastrous
war.

--- Page 24 ---
LESSONS FROM OPERATIONS

“CRIME BUREAU ESTABLISHED

A CENTRAL bureau for criminal re-
cords and for a criminal science labora-
tory at Land level is in the process of
being organized in Munich under the

: direction of the Munich Detachment.

Dr. Hoppner, a noted German  cri-
minologist, is the present, temporary
head. The function of this office will be
strictly advisory and assisting so far as
the operation of the police forces is
concerned. The functions of this office
will be to collect and file criminal re-
cords, such as fingerprints, photographs,

- modus operandi; and to make, expert,
scientific analysis of crime clues, blood
stains, secretions, etc.

The bureau will also, at a future date, '

operate in communication, through
authorized channels, with other police
agencies beyond Bavaria. At the present
“ime, the bureau is in the formulating
stage, and effort is being made to
reassemble existing police criminal re-
cords at a Land. level interest. The
official designation of this bureau has
not yer veen decided.

AND GREAT WAS THE FALL THEREOF

Two trees planted in honor of Adolf

Hitler in the towns of Berg and Polling

_ have been cut down for firewood. In

each case records denoting the names
of the sponsors have been dug up.

A PAUPER'S OATH

Through a rather unique means”
test, the city of Straubing has reduced
its relief expenditures from RM 226,500

21

in July to RM 152,000 in August. There
was a decrease of 2705 individuals from
the relief roles. This was brought about
almost entirely by requiring relief re-
cipients to sign statements: one,. in
effect, a pauper’s oath, another, a con-
tract to. repay the money from now
frozen assets, and still another, in case
of people with real property, accepting
a lien on the property applicable at time
of any sale. Out of the RM 152,000 total
paid for welfare in the months of Au-
gust, RM 81,500 (more than half) went
to German refugees. DP’s cost the city
RM 7,500 in‘cash in August and former
concentration camp victims, 117 in
number, RM 10,500. The relief expen-
ditures for August were on _ the old
scale; the new scale, which went into
effect 1 September, again increases relief
costs.

NOMINATING COMMITTEE
APPOINTED

THE Military Government officer of
Mainburg has appointed the Landrat, the
Biirgermeister of Mainburg and the
Birgermeister of Au as a committee to
nominate candidates for an Advisory
council to assist in implementing the
forthcoming formation of political par-
ties, and to serve as a closer link be-
tween Military Government and _ the
civil populace. The council will consist
of not more than ten persons, will be re-
presentative of all phases of recognized
political activity and will cover various
phases of the economic and social life of
the community.

The three leading political parties,

--- Page 25 ---
locally, will be ..the Volkspartei, the
Bayerische Bauern- und Mittelstands-
bund and the Social Democrats.

WAR MONUMENTS REMOVED

IN Waldmiinchen, the Landrat was
directed to have the Birgermeister
remove all war monuments, either to
take them down and ‘store them or to
convert them to the memory of non-
military persons or events in German
history. This will include shrines in
Churches erected to the memory of
soldiers who have died on the field of
battle. In order to prevent the people
from interpreting these instructions as
a desecration of the dead, the names of
the war dead will be allowed to remain
but no reference. will be made to the
war. Names of other members of the
congregation who have, died of natural
causes or in civilian accidents. may be
included on the memorial tablets. In this
way the dead will be honored rather
than the cause of death.

ADDITIONAL ADVISORY COUNCILS
“ADVISORY councils have beeri set up
in a great many Kreise of RB Kassel
and Gemeinde to aid the Landrate and
Birgermeisters in solving their pro-
- blems. Generally these councils are set
up on a political basis (a proportionate

22

number of members from each well-
known party) but all discussions deal
with purely local problems and plans for
solving them. These councils attract
much favorable comment from the
civilian population and much interest is
shown in them.

RELIGION AND THE SCHOOLS

In Vilsbiburg, Pfarrer Reitinger, Cath-
olic Church Binabiburg, made a written
protest against the employment of a
teacher whose religion is Protestant.
The priest was brought to the Military
Government office, and the discussion
showed that the objections of the priest

apparently originated with the Bishop’

of Regensburg. The grounds for the
opposition to the teacher were: the Ge-
meinden schools are Catholic; placing a

“evangelical teacher in Catholic schools

was what Hitler had done, which was
bad, and there should be a’ separate
building for the Protestant children. The
answer to these allegations were: first,
the Gemeinden school buildings~ are
public: buildings; second, the Protestant
teacher was teaching school subjects,
not religon (there are a large number
of Protestant evacuees in'this Gemeinde).
Erecting a separate building for the
Protestants is impracticable and un-
desirable at this time. The Protestant
teacher will remain in the school at
Binabiburg.

--- Page 26 ---
PRESS COMMENTS

Occupation of Japan Viewed as "Soft"

WHILE Gen. Douglas MacArthur came
under fire from the home front for
aliegedly following too ”soft” a policy
in his occupation of Japan, comment
during the week on developments in
Germany emphasized the problems of
fraternization and the future German
government.

Gen. MacArthur’s policy, declared the
New York Times, is quite different from
that applied by the Allies in Europe. "kK
not only falls far short of the severity
applhled to Germany, it is even’ milder
than the policy applied to Italy, not to
speak of the regimes set up by Soviet
Russia in Eastern Europe,” said the
Times. ’We cannot pursue one policy in
Europe and another in Japan without
indicting one policy by the other, and
laying ourselves open to misunderstand-
ings and suspicions of ulterior motives
in a world that is already. too full of
them.” ‘

In the opinion of the New York Herald
Tribune, the basic issues of policy cannot
be left to independent determination by
commanders in the field, but can only
be adequately laid down at ”the very
highest levels of national and United

. States policy.” An editorial in PM
pointed out that there is no sign that
Gen. MacArthur ’ will exert any stringent
control over what really counts — the
political and industrial rulers of Japan,
who along with the military, made it
into the monstrous fascist imperialism
it was, and will be again, if given a
chance.”

23

Constantine Brown, in the Washing-
ton Star, described the sharp contrast
between the occupation policies in Eu-
rope and Japan. "The Allies have
adopted two methods in their effort to

‘ restore democracy among their enemies

in.this war,” ‘said Brown. ”One is the
harsh, dour method which is being en-
forced in the Reich; the other is the
velvet glove’ policy adopted in Japan.
Which will give the best results remains
to be seen.” :

Defending Gen. MacArthur, the Wa-
shington Post said that in his treatment
of the now helpless Japanese people, the
Supreme Allied Commander is showing
a statesmanship which we hope will be
reflected as well in his administration
of their political and economic
affairs. If in victory we were to adopt
the brutality of our enemies, we shquld

become not. conquerors but: thé con-

quered. For this war was, above all, a
war of ideas. Gen. MacArthur had done
well, we think, to assert the dominant
ideas of the nation he represents.”

In a preview of the potentially ex-
Plosive factors in the situation in Ger-
many during the coming winter, Harry
F. Kern of Newsweek drew attention té
the problem of the growing sympathy
of American: soldiers for the Germans.
There are still plenty of troops who
despise and hate them, but the attitude
of the majority has gradually changed”
said Kern. ”Fraternization has taken
place on a-large scale and the average

--- Page 27 ---
GI likes the average German girl. Prob-
ably this will be even harder to control
as the combat troops who actually
fought the Nazis move out and are re-
placed by units fresh from the United
States. The political implications are
obvious, and may become of great im-
portance.”

In the opinion of a United Press cor-

respondent, writing from Berlin, any

immediate move to organize a German
central government, however, would be
doomed to failure "because Germany is
completely lacking in capable leaders.
Realistic Germans are willing to admit
it will be many years before Germany
is ready for anything approaching. the
Fourth Reich and. warn that overhasty
formation of a. central government
could only plunge the country into
worse chaos than existed in 1921.”

Ruhr Round-Up

Prominently featured in the British
press, the round-up of Hugo Stinnes
and. other pro-Nazi captains of industry
evoked favorable editorial comment,
coupled with predictions that the purge
would result in increasing the present
meager production.in the Ruhr. area.
Arrest of Stinnes and his colleagues,
declared the Daily Worker, is likely to
*have an immediate and salutary effect
on coal output in that region. The
Rhine - Westphalian Coal Syndicate,
which was being used complete with its
Nazi personnel and machinery for the
running -of the mines, comprised the
foremost financiers of the Nazi move-
ment from its inception.” :

In a dispatch topped by sensational
headlines, Reynolds News of. London
hinted that behind the arrest of the Nazi

24

Ruhr industrialists lay a Nazi plot "to
reduce Europe to chaos this winter by
sabotaging coal production in the
Ruhr.” The Reynolds News correspon-
dent said that he had learned that the
arrests followed the study of expert
reports warning the British and U. S.
Governments of the consequences of the
acute coal famine facing Europe. ”This
famine threatens to create conditions of
such severity, say the reports; as. to
destroy all semblance of law and order
and jeopardize the chances of peaceful
reconstruction in North West Europe and
the Mediterranean,” the article stated.

. .The German Mind

Have the occupation authorities devot-
ed sufficient attention. to remolding the
German mind? This question is asked
by the New York Times in an editorial
on September 15. "There remains a
disturbing thought that in the American
Zone at least there is a lack of con-
centration of the root of the German
problem — the German mind,” declared
the Times editorial. ’For if the German
mind is left untouched, then whatever
else is done will be fruitless, and 20
years from now will bring a recurrence
of the German problem. This is a task
which cannot be-done by soldiers. It is
a task for teachers. and writers and
lecturers. The-cost will be high, in time
and brains and money. But whatever,
the cost it will be cheaper than a quarter
of a million casualties in 20 years.”

Somewhat the same views were ex-
pressed by Volney D. Hurd, in a dis-
patch to the Christian Science Monitor
on August 23. Because. of its failure to
provide Germans with informational

--- Page 28 ---
material on Nazism, and other literature
to fill the demand for intellectual food,
the United States, Hurd asserted, has lost
“the first round in the postwar German

campaign,” adding that "the golden
opportunity to change the thinking of

the German people has almost slipped
away.” : 1

Europe and German Industry

Commentators in London have re-
“cently sharply challenged the wisdom of
the Allied policy toward German in-
dustry. ”’The crucial and inescapable fact
is that an industrially productive Ger-
many is essential ‘to. the material
prosperity of most of Europe,” declared
an article in the financial section of the

London Times on September 6. "If
Germany is to be converted into a
primitive and third-rate industrial

nation, it is the population of Europe .

who will foot the bill. This may possibly
be regarded as an essential sacrifice to
ensure preservation of peace: equally, it
may in some respects be an exaggerated
sacrifice to the insatiable demands of
power politics. In any case, it should be
clearly recognized that it is the Euro-
pean standard of living from which the
sacrifice will be demanded.”

The London. Economist, in a parallel
assault, declared that it is not difficult
to “demonstrate the utter lunacy of the
Allies’ policy toward Germany. It must
be .becoming apparent to the simplest
intelligence that to compress fifty to
sixty million into a territory roughly
the size of Britain and then totally de-
industrialize it can only lead to the
collapse and the disaster we are already
witnessing.” What is perhaps not so
clear — although here, too, the facts
are: daily becoming more obvious — is

that the policy of pastoralization is
almost as ruinous for Europe as for
Germany.” ,

Random Comments

”*Democracy is not a matter of name
or form, nor even of constitution, but
a state of mind. Too many nations
today masquerade as democracies and
Practice absolutism. America must. see
to it that Japan does not become. such
a counterfeit only to seek the benefit of
her tong purse.” — K. K. Kawakami in
Chicago Sun.

ok Ok

*There is no reason, economic, geo-
graphic, religious or racial for our
country to have any serious trouble with
Russia. The Russians have an admira-

* tion for us and a great appreciation for

25

what we have done for them. At: the
present time there is a solid basis for
a long period of mutual understanding
and friendship, provided we do not kick .
over the apple cart by allowing oursel-
ves to be influenced in the wrong direc-
tion.” — Col. H. M. Baldrige.

* *

” Our new greatness makes it man-
datory for us to do more than merely
please. ourselves. We, must act as the
world’s greatest makeweight for stabil-
ity.” — Samuel Grafton in Philadelphia

Record.
* *

”The great danger in this hour of
victory, a victory due largely to superior
resources, is to let over-confidence

distract us from the task of eradicating

the Japanesé military caste while we
have the chance. If we do not do so now,
we some. day will have to fight Japan
again.” — I. F. Stone in P. M.

--- Page 29 ---
»To save German lives has nothing to
do with justice or pity. It is a plain
question of European responsibility. To
save Europe, it is necessary to do
something about the hundreds of
thousands of homeless Germans who
have been injected into the shrunken
Reich from Poland, Czecho-Slovakia
and elsewhere.” — Manchester Guardian.

* *

Most of the men are working hard
on a bewildering and thankless job. Men
at the top of the Military Government,
like General Eisenower and his deputy,
Lt. Gen. Lucius D. Clay, have the respect
of everybody, and are on excellent
terms with their British, Russian and

26

French counterparts. They are setting
the pace in the American Zone. They
give the unmistakeable impression of
operating on the rule. that American
committments to participate in the con-
trol of Germany are ciear and firm. But
at the same time they, appear to be on
the lookout for American interests,
seeing to it that Uncle Sam is not made
anybody’s sucker, that Europe under-
stands and if possible appreciates what
the United States furnished in men,
money and materials during the war.
and is continuing to furnish now. By no
stretch of the imagination could this
occupation operation be called smooth.
It is full of dangerous obstacles.” — Dis-
patch to Chicago News. .

--- Page 30 ---
PERSONAL DATA

The following new branch chiefs and
section chiefs have been appointed re-
cently in G-5 Division, U. S. Forces,
European Theater:

Chief, Plans Branch
Lt. Col. Lowell J. Chawner
Chief, Financial Branch
Mr. Joseph M. Dodge
Chief, Foreign Trade Section -- Trade &

Commerce Branch
Lt. Col. Frank T. Balke

Chief, Trade & Distribution. Section,
Trade & Commerce Branch
Lt. Col. John R. Hall

Decorations

OAK LEAF CLUSTER TO BRONZE
STAR MEDAL

_ Col.. Malcolm C. Bauer, G-5, USFET
Lt. Col. William H. Chambers, G-5,
USFET ;

BRONZE STAR MEDAL
Col. Homer W. Jones, G-5, USFET

Lt. Col. William T. Babcock, . G-5,
USFET

Lt. Col. Clarence E. Lovejoy, G-d,
USFET . c

Lt. Col. John R. McDougall, G-5, USFET
Lt. Col. M. W. Kerncamp, G-5, USFET
Maj. Horace J. Davis, G-5, USFET
Maj. Harold S. Potter, G-5, USFET
Capt. Nicholas C. Leone, G-5, USFET
M/Sgt. Pierre A. Mercier, G-5, USFET

27

‘7/3 Thomas P. Dennehy, G-5, USFET

T/3 Samuel K. Custer, G-5, USFET
T/4 Eva Schultz, G-5, USFET

Sgt. Abraham Robbins, G-5, USFET
Cpl. Arent R. Kjaer, G-5, USFET

Returned to the States

Col. Homer, W. Jones, G-5, USFET

Lt Col Albert B. Patton, G-5, Third Army
Maj William L. Batt, G-5, Seventh Army
Maj. Richard J. Eaton, G-5, USFET
Aaj. Howard S: Potter, G-5, USFET
Capt. Harry Bluhm, G-5, USFET

Capt. Deryl E. Gift, G-5, USFET

Capt. Noel Hemmendinger, G-5, USFET

Capt Marc J. Robinson, G-5, Seventh
Army :

Capt Thomas B. Scott, G-5, Third Army’

Ist Lt. Arthur H. Stroh, G-5, USFET

2nd Lt. Herbert Cohn, G-5, USFET

2nd Lt Patsy S. Garofano, G-5; Sevent
Army . >

T/Sgt Joseph B. Patti, G-5, Seventh Army

TiSgt Eugene S. Killoren, G-5, Seventh
Army

S/Sgt Harold R. Littrell, G-5, Seventh
Army

Sgt. Joseph E. McGinnis, G-5, Seventh
Army

T/4 Walter A. Burns, G-5, Seventh Army
T/5 Joseph Badolata, G-5, Seventh Army
T/5 Phillip Martin, G-5, Seventh Army

'T/5 Joseph Gorlando, G-5, Seventh Army

Ti5 Louis A. Davis, G-5, Seventh Army

Pfc. Owen Kelly, G-5- Seventh Army

Pfc. Willie P. King, Jr, G-5, Seventh
Army

--- Page 31 ---
