--- Page 2 ---
No. 8 — 11 AUGUST 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF
G-5 DIVISION
USFET

INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
ti |

es
(ZONE

| | | KASSE
| toad
Hy | | ILS Fert
1. | | MARBURG
Herborn
a GIESSEN
WETZLAR e FULDA

ee

LIMBURG

FRIEDBERG
:
FRANKFURT o M U S
—, WIESBADEN », Z O N E
e OFFEN-
BACH
a Saamstaot EASTERN
— Diary
-FR=— sire DISTRICT
= Toni s
EZONE 4 ==
[ NHEIM pee:
-— IDELRERG i
[ She estingen
——- ---____ BRUCHSAL HEILBRONN HALL,

Sfighen shang
UDWI ESeuRG

Sfuvenity

AALEN
ESSINGEN gMUND *
ESSING! GOOPPINGEN
a Bem LRG, eM, EIDENHEIM ,
be A Meet gen GEISLINGEN
en P min
ear —~
Pe —
- =
Pe RSI ‘
Z y
ka, f a
- ‘\
a
@

U.S. ZONE

WESTERN DISTRICT

--- Page 4 ---
No. 3 — 11 AUGUST 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE
ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF
G-5 DIVISION
USFET

INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---
CONTENTS

PAGE

MESSAGE FROM GENERAL EISENHOWER .... . 3
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY. .......... 5
Financial Policy in Occupied Germany . . . . . . . 5

The Potsdam Conference Statement... ...... 9
Soviets Reform German Education . . . .... . 21
GERMAN REACTIONS ......... . . 23
German. Comments on Re-Education . . . . . . . 23
Farmers Like Free Speech . . . . . 1 ww ee 24
.LESSONS FROM OPERATIONS ....... . . 25
PRESS COMMENTS ........ 2.4.4... 27
As the Press Viewed Potsdam . . . . . «© + ss + 27
German Industry Speaks Up... ww we ee 28
Does Industrial Disarmament Lag? . . . . . .. . 29

The Future of De-Nazification . . . . «2. 2 1 1. 29
Importance of Education Stressed. . . . . . . « « 30
General © 2 2) ee ee ee ee ee eee 80
QUERIES... 2 we ee ee ee 8
PERSONAL DATA... ... 1. 1 ee ee ee 2

--- Page 6 ---
Message from General Eisenhower

6 August 1945.

To the German People in the United
States Zone:

Almost three months have passed since
the final defeat of Germany. During
this period we have been engaged in
the removal of Nazis from positions
of prominence in German life. We have
also re-established law and order, and
have taken many steps specifically
directed to provide a foundation for
. you now to exert your best efforts to
minimize the problems which you will
face during the coming winter.

Our denazification program has pro-
ceeded sufficiently so that it is timely
now to speak to you of our plans for
the occupation of the United States zone
in Germany, plans which accord fully
with the policies agreed upon in the
recent conference of Allied leaders in
Potsdam.

After two wars in twenty-five years,
we intend to prevent Germany from
ever again threatening the peace of
the world. Nazism and militarism are
being rooted out in all their forms. War
criminals are being tried and punished
as they deserve. Germany is being
completely disarmed. In short, the Ger-
man power to make war will be
destroyed.

But our aim is not merely a negative
one. We do not desire to degrade the
German people. We shall assist you to
rebuild your life on a democratic basis.

Your courts and schools’ are being re-
opened as quickly as they can be freed
of Nazi influence. Justice and education
founded on true liberal principles will
be supported vigorously.

Already you are publishing some of
your own newspapers, electing shop
stewards to represent you, and serving
on advisory groups for military gov-
ernment. Now these and similar steps
will be carried further.

You will be permitted to form local
unions and to engage in local political
activities; and meetings for these pur-
poses may be held subject to the
approval of local Military Government.
An initial aim of trade unions and
political parties should be to help ‘in
the measures necessary now to prepare
for the coming winter.

The full freedom to form trade unions
and to engage in democratic political
activities will be extended rapidly in
those areas in which you show a
readiness for the healthy exercise of
these privileges. Your own actions will
determine the time for removing re-
maining restrictions.

The coming months will be a time of
trial. They will inevitably be hard. All
signs point to shortages of food, fuel,
housing and transport. These are the
consequences of a war of aggression.
Yet you have it in your power to
reduce these hardships by steady work
and by helping each other. There must
be no idleness.

--- Page 7 ---
The prospects for the harvest are
good. However, to make sure that it is
fully gathered the people in the cities
and towns must go out to work on the
farms.

Coal will not be available for heating
houses this winter. In the next few
months you must cut and gather enough
wood in the forests to take care of
your essential needs.

Housing is your third major problem.
While the weather still permits, damaged
houses must be repaired to provide as
much shelter as possible this winter,
using salvaged material and lumber cut
from the forests to the fullest feasible
extent.

All of these are your problems. Their
solution depends on your work. Ger-
man civil authorities have been set up
by Military Government in many fields
to enable you to help yourselves until

the time comes for you to select your
own government. If you do your part,
we can help you in other ways. Already
I have made military transport available
to help prevent losses of crops in the
fields. .

Members of my command are now
permitted normal public contacts with
you. In this way we will be able to
understand better the problems which
face you in the coming months.

Despite all hardships, you need not
face the future without hope. You can
redeem yourselves, both at home and
in the eyes of the world, through your
own efforts. It lies in your power
ultimately to build a healthy, democratic
life in Germany and to rejoin the
family of nations. To achieve this, you
must show you have forever abandoned
militarism and aggression and have
adopted a peaceful way of life.

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
GENERAL OF THE ARMY
Commanding General

United States Forces European Theater

--- Page 8 ---
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Financial Policy in

FINANCIAL policy .in occupied Ger-
.many is designed to serve Allied objec-
tives, and the primary objective is to
take all measures possible in the field of

finance to prevent Germany from ever .

again becoming a threat to the world.

An important step in the disarmament
of Germany is to take away from Ger-
many its financial means of waging
war. This has meant, in the first place,

seizing the foreign-exchange assets’

which are located in Germany — that
is, taking the precious metals and the
foreign currencies which the Nazis
‘could use to finance their underground
and the bases they have built up abroad.
The most spectacular part of this pro-
cess was the seizure of the Reichsbank
gold of over 200 million dollars in the
salt mines at Merkers. But this was
only the largest find. Under Military
Government Law 53, the Germans were
ordered to turn in immediately certain
kinds of foreign exchange. At the same
time, an intensive search has been made
for this type of asset.

From all over the occupied zone,
gold, silver and platinum bullion; gold
and silver coins; dollars, pounds, francs,
zloty, lei, lire and every other kind of
foreign currency have been consigned
to Finance Headquarters in Frankfurt.
Seized with the Reichsbank gold (which
had, in large part, been stolen from all
over Europe) was a_ considerable
quantity of SS loot which the Reichs-
bank had arranged to handle for Himm-
ler. Included in this haul from the

Occupied Germany

concentration and. murder camps are
boxes of. gold and. silver teeth and

. fillings, gold watch-cases and gems and

jewelry of all kinds. The private hoards
of a number of prominent Nazis, like
Ribbentrop, consisting of foreign
currencies have likewise been taken.
With the crown jewels of several
dynasties included, the depository at
Frankfurt has now become a veritable
treasure chest. :

CRIPPLED NAZI PLANS

This sweeping up of the German
foreign-exchange assets within Germany
has undoubtedly crippled Nazi plans
for sending agents and prominent Nazis
to safety abroad. At the same time,
complete control has been imposed on
all transactions which have to do with
the flow of funds across the German
frontiers. These two measures —
collecting the gold, foreign currencies
and other foreign exchange held within
Germany, and stopping any further
transfers of funds from Germany —
are believed to have stopped the Nazis
from building up any new bases outside
of Germany.

We know, however, that the Germans
had already established usable bases of
operation abroad before and during
the war. After the last war, German
agents confessed. that German-owned
firms in the US had contributed some
20 million dollars to finance propaganda
and sabotage activities. We know, like-
wise, that the Nazi now expect German
industrialists to provide the necessary

--- Page 9 ---
funds for the Nazi underground. The
US Treasury and the Alien Property
Custodian took German-owned firms
under control and blocked German
funds during the war. Most of the other
United Nations have taken similar
action. But the Under Secretary of the
US State Department has testified that
it is a matter of common knowledge
that Argentina has allowed hundreds
of German-controlled firms to operate.
At the same. time, the neutrals have,
until recently, taken no action to con-
trol German funds and properties. An
important phase of financial activity
in Germany has been, therefore, the
investigation, from the German records
and from interrogation of key German
officials, of German assets located
outside of Germany.

CLOAKED GERMAN INTERESTS

The investigation so far has un-
covered, for example, cloaked German
interests in Latin America that were so
cleverly concealed that they were able
to operate throughout the war without
being suspected. Additional evidence
has been found showing that certain
companies in the US, previously
suspected as having a German interest,
were in fact controlled by Germany.
‘Only recently, documents were un-
covered showing that a German finan-
cial agent in the US had made arrange-
ments with the German Government to
regain his German citizenship at the
very time he was becoming a natural-

~ ized American. He explained to the Ger-
man Government that he was becom-
ing an American citizen solely to further
German interests in America.

The German chemical trust, I. G.
Farben, made available its extensive
network of subsidiaries and connections
abroad to pay and place German
espionage agents during the course of

the war. For example, the following is
a letter dated 24 March 1943, from Dr.
George von Schnitzler, in charge of
I. G. Farben foreign offices, to Colonel
Piekenbrock, then head of an espionage
section of the Wehrmacht, on the
occasion of Piekenbrocks leaving his
position to take a command at the front:

Dear Colonel,

*I thank you very much for your kind
note of 15 March and take the liberty
of expressing my best wishes for your
front command.

"I and my colleagues working here at
Frankfurt on foreign business have
always considered it a duty of honor
to be always at your disposal for your
special tasks. This will of course be the
same in the future after your successor,
Lt. Col. Hansen, has taken over.

*With cordial regards and Heil Hitler,
I remain

Yours very devoted,
(Signed) v. Schnitzler.”

It is clear that the Nazis made arrange-
ments with German industrialists to
have funds available abroad to finance
the Party when operations in Allied-
occupied Germany would become
difficult. These foreign funds must be
ferreted out if the Allied objective of
smashing Nazism is to be achieved. At
the same time, the German foreign
assets are a sizeable item which can be
used to pay a part of the German
reparations bill.

CONTROL EFFECTIVE

The US Treasury, in the course of the
war, developed in the United States a
new and effective technique called
blocking or freezing control which is
used to remove the threat of dangerous
assets and funds inside of a country.
The American experience is being
applied in Germany to take care of the

--- Page 10 ---
second half of the problem — that is,
Nazi assets in Germany which could be
used there to finance the Nazi Party.
All Nazi funds and property in Germany
are blocked or frozen under Military
Government Law 52. This prevents
Nazi funds from being dissipated and
keeps them from being used to finance
~underground movements. Military Gov-
ernment Law 52 also makes possible
the seizure of properties, like the
gigantic I. G. Farben chemical combine,
in the US Zone, which was taken over
by the US Army on 5 July.

IMPORTANT STRUCTURE

The financial network of any country
is a particularly powerful and strategic
part of its whole economic life. In
Germany the financial structure is even
more important than it is in other
countries because the banks were closely
integrated with the large German
trusts, and with the trusts played an
important role in assisting Hitler to
power. De-nazification in finance is,
therefore, most important and con-
siderable stress has been laid upon it.
To date, in the leading financial cities
of the US Zone, such as Frankfurt and
Munich, practically every Nazi has been
eliminated from the financial system.
During the month of August, the final
clean-up job in the US Zone is being
undertaken, with 1 September set as
target date for the substantially com-
plete elimination of Nazi influence from
the financial system.

At the same time, it was important
to eliminate the Nazi practices which
had been introduced into the various
fields of finance. German finance
officials have been ordered to remove
all discrimination in taxation based on
differences of creed, nationality, race
or politics. Payments based upon Nazi

theories, stich as the subsidies encourag-
ing large families, have also been elimi-
nated from the financial structure.

An important facet of financial policy
is the use of occupation currency, the
Allied Military Mark. By paying troops
in this currency, the US Government
transfers a part of this portion of the
occupation costs on to the Germans.
After the last war, when occupation
currency was not used, several hundred
million dollars were paid out in Ger-
many to US troops. This money merely
served to build up Germany’s exchange
reserves. The US had a claim against
Germany for this amount as occupation
costs, but we never succeeded in
collecting. Profiting by the last ex-
perience, the Allies in this occupation
have made sure, through the use of the
AM Mark, to pass this burden on to
Germany. The services, supplies and
quarters which are provided for the
US Army in Germany are paid for
directly by the Germans. Arrangements
have been. made for the German
authorities to pay for the. requisitions
issued by the Army. :

FINANCIAL INTELLIGENCE

Another phase of finance operations
is the Compilation of financial intelli-
gence for the joint use of Military Gov-
ernment and the US Government. The
occupation has made it possible to
supply the answers to a number of
important questions which have con-
cerned the US Government for years.
For example, the official Nazi counter-
feiting plant which produced counterfeit
currency of many of the Allies has
finally been located. Together with the
plant machinery, we have seized approxi-
mately 25 million pounds sterling which
was still on hand. Attempts had also
been made to counterfeit American

--- Page 11 ---
dollar bills, but the results were never
“really successful.  ”

This plant also produced all kinds of
forged Allied credentials, ranging from
certificates of- American citizenship
issued by US consuls to ETO driver’s
licenses. In this organization the SS
had provided itself with a most com-
plete set of rubber stamps and dies,
including US Treasury seals, visas. for
the United Kingdom and the Colombian
Consul stamp for Guayaquil, Ecuador.
Probably, it was this plant which pro-
duced the credentials used by the Nazis
who masqueraded in American uniforms
during the Ardennes winter offensive.

EXPLAINS DISAPPEARANCE

The quantity of American gold coins
found in Germany likewise explains
what happened to a large number of
US coins - which the US Treasury
Department called in but which had
never appeared.

In order to meet the primary Allied
objectives in Germany, it has been
necessary to reconstitute the German
financial. system to a certain degree.
The banks and other financial institut-
ions have been used, for instance, to
collect the German foreign-exchange
assets and as a mechanism for securing
compliance with Allied financial orders
and instructions. The main responsibility
for the reconstruction of the financial
system and for its operation has been
placed upon the Germans. Tax offices
have. been reopened and are busy
collecting taxes, which are running-at
from 30 to 40 per cent of those of last
year. In view of the stoppage of most
of German industry due to shortages
of coal and transport, this percentage
is a creditable one. Although only

limited banking facilities are available -

in most cases, banks are now .open and

operating throughout the US Zone, and
bank deposits are exceeding with-
drawals throughout most of the area.
This increase in deposits is occuring in
spite of the fact that no action has been
taken (nor-can be taken before the
Control Council so -decides) on the
public debt, which constitutes the bulk.
of German banking assets. _

While other branches of Military
Government are responsible for in-
dustrial and agricultural production, it
is the function of finance to ensure that
money is available for these projects.

Under the terms of the US directive,
the main responsibility for the mainten-
ance of price, rationing and other
direct controls is placed on the Ger-
mans. From the US point of view it is
clear that the Nazis.did not utilize all
the financial measures available to hold
down the inflationary potential. They
made no attempt to siphon off excess
purchasing power by war-bond cam-
paigns, as we do in the United States.
During the last few years, the German
currency in circulation, for example,
was allowed to increase by almost. ten
times, and is now well over 70 million:
RM. However, the Germans by the use
of their price and rationing controls
succeeded in insulating the large amount
of purchasing power in existence from
affecting prices. Military Government
has maintained these direct controls.

DEPOSITS ENCOURAGED

A number of anti-inflationary meas-
ures are now in effect. By the prompt,
reopening of. the banks, funds have
been encouraged to flow out of circu-
lation and into savings deposits. The
reopening of revenue has led to tax
collections which relatively are ahead
of the activity of the rest of the

--- Page 12 ---
économy. Local and Land Governments
have been encouraged to balance their
budgets. Expenditures have been cut at
all levels of Government by removing
from the payrolls all Government
employees who are not now working.
The prompt elimination of the very
large war expenditures has been another
important factor in decreasing the
inflationary potential. The blocking of
Nazi funds has taken large amounts of
money out of the market.

One little known yet important
financial function is the maintenance
of the necessary financial records on
our occupation. These records are not
only necessary for Military Government
administration but they also will be |
used for the ultimate inter-governmental
settlements. When the final settlement
of the Allied Occupation of Germany
is made and the final balance sheet is
drawn, these records will give the
definitive picture. .

The Potsdam Conference Statement

Following is the complete
text of the "Report on the
Tripartite Conference of Ber-
lin’ reproduced here for the
information and reference of
Military Government personnel.

I.

On July 17, 1945, the President of the
United States of America, Harry S.
Truman, the Chairman of the Council
of People’s Commissars of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics, Generalis-
simo J. V. Stalin, and the Prime Minister
of Great Britain, Winston S. Churchill,
together with Mr. Clement R. Attlee,
met in the Tripartite Conference of
Berlin.

They were accompanied by the For-
eign Secretaries of the three Govern-
ments, Mr. James F. Byrnes, Mr. V. M.
Molotov, and Mr. Anthony Eden, the
Chiefs of Staff, and other advisers.

There were nine meetings between
July 17 and July 25. The Conference

was then interrupted for two days while
the results of the British General Elect-
ion were being declared.

On July 28 Mr. Attlee returned to the
Conference as Prime Minister, accom-
panied by the new Secretary of State
for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Ernest Bevin.
Four days of further discussion then
took place. During the course of the
Conference there were regular meetings
of the Heads of the three Governments
accompanied by the Foreign Secretaries,
and also of the Foreign Secretaries
alone. Committees appointed by the
Foreign Secretaries for preliminary
consideration of questions before the
Conference also met daily.

The meetings of the Conference were
held at the Cecilienhof, near Potsdam.
The Conference ended on August 2,
1945.

Important decisions and agreements
were reached. Views were exchanged
on a number of other questions and
consideration of these matters will be

--- Page 13 ---
continued by the Council of Foreign
Ministers established by the Conference.

President Truman, Generalissimo Sta-
lin and Prime Minister Attlee leave this
Conference, which has strengthened the
ties between the three Governments
and extended the scope of their col-
laboration and understanding, with
renewed confidence that their Govern-
ments and peoples, together with the
other United Nations, will insure the
creation of a just and enduring peace.

ESTABLISHMENT OF A COUNCIL
OF FOREIGN MINISTERS

The Conference reached an agreement
for the establishment of a Council of
Foreign Ministers representing the five
principal Powers to continue the
necessary preparatory work for the
peace settlements and to take up other
matters which from time to time may
be referred to the Council by agree-
ment of the Governments participating
in the Council.

The text of the agreement for the
establishment of the Council of Foreign
Ministers is as follows:

(1) There shall be established a
Council composed of the Foreign Min-
isters of the United Kingdom, the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics, China,
France and the United States.

(2) (i) The Council chall normally
meet in London, which shall be the
permanent seat of the joint Secretariat
which the Council will form. Each of
the Foreign Ministers will be accom-
panied by a high-ranking Deputy, duly
authorized to carry on the work of the
Council in the absence of his Foreign
Minister, and by a small staff of tech-
nical advisers.

10

(ii) The first meeting of the Council
shall be held in London not later than
September 1, 1945. Meetings may be
held by common agreement in other
capitals as may be agreed from time to
time.

(3) (i) As its immediate important
task, the Council shall be authorized to
draw up, with a view to their sub-
mission to the United Nations, treaties
of peace with Italy, Romania, Bulgaria,
Hungary and Finland, and to propose
settlements of territorial questions
outstanding on the termination of the
war in Europe. The Council shall be
utilized for the preparation of a peace
settlement for Germany to be accepted
by the Government of Germany when
a.Government adequate for the purpose
is established.

(ii) For the discharge of each of these
tasks the Council will be composed of
the members representing those States
which were signatory to the terms of
surrender imposed upon the enemy
State concerned. For the purpose of
the peace settlement for Italy, France
shall be regarded as a signatory to the
terms of surrender for Italy. Other
members will be invited to participate
when matters directly concerning them
are under discussion.

(iii) Other matters may from time to
time be referred to the Council by
agreement between the member Gov-
ernments. .

(4) (i) Whenever the Council is
considering a question of direct interest
to a State not represented thereon, such
State should be invited to send rep-
resentatives to participate in the dis-
cussion and study of that question.

(ii) The Council may adapt its proce-
dure to the particular problem under
consideration. In some cases it may hold

--- Page 14 ---
its own preliminary discussions prior to
the participation of other interested
States. In other cases the Council may
convoke a formal conference of the
State chiefly interested in seeking a
solution of the particular problem.”

In accordance with the decision of
the Conference the three Governments
have each addressed an identical in-
vitation to the Governments of China
and France to adopt this text and to
join in establishing the Council.

*

The establishment of the Council of
Foreign Ministers for specific purposes
named in the text will be without pre-
judice to the agreement of the Crimea
Conference that there should be periodic
consultation among the Foreign Secre-
taries of the United States, the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics and the
United Kingdom.

The Conference also considered the
position of the European Advisory
Commission in the light of the agree-
ment to establish the Council of
Foreign Ministers. It was noted with
satisfaction that the Commission had
ably discharged its principal tasks by
the recommendations that it had fur-
nished for the terms of Germany’s un-
conditional surrender, for the zones of
occupation in Germany and Austria,
and for the inter- Allied control
machinery in those countries.

It was felt that further work of a
detailed character for the co-ordination
of Allied policy for the control of Ger-
many and Austria would in future fall
within the competence of the Allied
Commission at Vienna. Accordingly it
was agreed to recommend that the
European Advisory Commission be
dissolved.

11

I.
GERMANY
The Allied Armies are in occupation
of the whole of Germany, and the Ger-
man people have begun to atone for
the terrible crimes committed under the
leadership of those whom, in the hour

of their success, they openly approved

and blindly obeyed.

Agreement has been reached at this
Conference on the political and eco-
nomic principles of a co-ordinated
Allied policy toward defeated Germany
during the period of Allied control.

The purpose of. this agreement is to
carry out the Crimea declaration on
Germany. German militarism and Na-
zism will be extirpated. and the Allies
will take in agreement together, now
and in the future, the other measures
necessary-to assure that Germany never
again will threaten her neighbors or
the peace of the world.

It is not the intention of the Allies
to destroy or enslave the German
people. It is the intention of the Allies
that’ the German people be given the
opportunity to prepare for the eventual
reconstruction of their life on a demo-
cratic and peaceful basis. If their own
efforts are steadily directed to this end,
it will be possible for them in due course
to take their place among the free and
peaceful peoples of the world.

*

The text of the agreements is as

follows:

The Political And Economic Principles To
Govern The Treatment Of Germany InThe
Initial Control Period

A—Political Principles

1. In accordance with the Agreement
on Control Machinery in Germany,

--- Page 15 ---
supreme authority in Germany is exer-
cised on instructions from their re-
spective Governments, by the Com-
mander-in-Chief of the armed forces
of the United States of America, the
United Kingdom, the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, and the French
Republic, each in his own zone of
occupation, and also jointly, in matters
affecting Germany, as a whole, in their
capacity as members of the Control
Council.

2. So far as is practicable, there shall
be uniformity of treatment of the Ger-
man population throughout Germany.

3. The purposes of the occupation of
Germany by which the Control Council
shall be guided are:

(i) The complete disarmament and
demilitarization of Germany and the
elimination or control of all German
industry that could be used for military
production. To these ends:

(a) All German land, naval and air
forces, the S.S., S.A., S.D., and Gestapo,
with all their organizations, staffs and
institutions, including the General
Staff, the Officers’ Corps, Reserve
Corps, military schools, war veterans’
organizations and all other military
and quasi- military organizations,
together with all clubs and associa-
tions which serve to keep alive the
military tradition in Germany, shall
be completely and finally abolished in
such manner as permanently to prev-
ent the revival or reorganization of
Germany militarism and Nazism;

(b) All arms, ammunition and im-
plements of war and all specialized
facilities for their production shall be
held at the disposal of the Allies or
destroyed. The maintenance and pro-
duction of all aircraft.and all arms,

12

ammunition and implements of war

shall be prevented.

(ii) To convince the German people
that they have suffered a total military
defeat and that they cannot escape
responsibility for what they have
brought upon themselves, since their
own ruthless warfare and the fanatical
Nazi resistance have destroved German
economy and made chaos and suffering
inevitable.

(iii) To destroy the National Socialist
party and its affiliated and supervised
organizations, to dissolve all Nazi in-
stitutions, to insure that they are not
revived in any form, and to prevent all
Nazi and militarist activity or propa-
ganda.

(iv) To prepare for the eventual ©
reconstruction of German political life
on a democratic basis and for eventual
peaceful co-operation in international
life by Germany.

4. All Nazi laws which provided the
basis of the Hitler regime or established
discrimination on grounds of race,
creed, or political opinion shall be
abolished. No such discriminations,
whether legal, administrative or other-
wise, shall be tolerated.

5. War criminals and those who have
participated in planning or carrying out
Nazi enterprises involving or resulting
in atrocities or war crimes shall be
arrested and brought to judgment. Nazi
leaders, influential Nazi supporters and
high officials of Nazi organizations
and institutions and any other persons
dangerous to the occupation or its ob-
jectives shall be arrested and interned.

6. All members of the Nazi party who
have been more than nominal parti-
cipants in its activities and all other
persons hostile to Allied purposes shall

--- Page 16 ---
be removed from public and semi-public
office, and from positions of respon-
sibility in| important private under-
takings. Such persons shall be replaced
by persons who, by their political and
moral qualities, are deemed capable: of
assisting in. developing genuine demo-
cratic institutions-in- Germany.

7. German education ‘shall be so con-
trolled as completely to ‘eliminate Nazi
and militarist doctrines and to make
possible the successful development of
democratic ideas.

8. The judicial system will be re-
organized in accordance with the prin-
ciples of democracy, of justice under
law, and of equal rights for all citizens
without distinction of race, nationality
or religion.

9. The administration of affairs in
Germany should be directed toward the
decentralization of the political struct-
ure and the development of local re-
sponsibility.

To this end:
- (i) Local. self-government shall be
restored throughout Germany on de-
mocratic principles and in particular
through elective councils as rapidly as
is consistent with military security and
the purposes of military occupation;

(ii) All democratic political parties
with rights of assembly and of public
discussion shall be allowed and. en-
couraged throughout Germany;

(iii) Representative and elective prin-
ciples shall be introduced into regional,
provincial and state (land) administra-
tion as rapidly as may be justified by
the successful application of these prin-
ciples in local self-government;

(iv) For the time being no central
German government shall be established.

43

Notwithstanding this, however, ‘certain
essential central German’ administrative
departments, headed by State ’Secte:
taries, shall be established; particularly
in the fields of finance, transport, com-
munications, foreign trade:and industry:
Such departments will act: unde
direction of the-Control’ ‘Council

speech, press and religion shall ‘be: ‘per-
mitted, and — réligious “institutions
shall be respected: Subjéct ‘likewise to
the maintenance of military security, the
formation of free: trade” unions shall
be permitted.

B.—Economic Principles

11. In order. to. eliminate -Germany’s
war potential, the production .of; arms,
ammunition and implements: of. war,:as
well as. all types, of. aircraft: and ; isea-
going ships, shall be prohibited and: pre-
vented. Production of metals, chmigals
machinery .and other items that.
directly necessary to a war . seal
shall be rigidly controlled and restricted
to Germany’s’ approved post- war, _peace-
time needs to meet the’ objectives: stated
in paragraph 15.

Productive, capacity not. needed :for
permitted. production. shall .be-.removed
in accordance with the: reparations. -plan
recommended by the: Allied Commission
on reparations -and , approved. -by: -thre
Governments concerned, _or,, if,
moved, shall. be destroyed...

12. At the earliest piacticaBte date,’ the
German economy shall be’ decentralized
for the purpose of éliminatitig ‘thé prés-
ent excessive concentration of ‘econom:
ic power as exemplified in ° particilar
by cartels, syndicates, trusts:and other
monopolistic arrangements. :

--- Page 17 ---
13. In organizing the German econ-
omy, primary emphasis shall be given to
the development of agriculture — and
peaceful domestic industries.

14. During the period of occupation
Germany shall be treated as a single
economic unit. To this end common
policies shall be established in regard to:

(a) mining and industrial production
and allocation;

(b) agriculture, forestry and fishing;

(c), wages, prices and rationing;

(d) import and export programs for
Germany as a whole;

(e) currency and banking,
taxation and customs;

(f) reparation and removal of indus-
trial war potential;

(g) transportation
cations.

In applying these policies account
shall be taken, where appropriate, of
varying local conditions.

15. Allied controls shall be imposed
upon the German economy but only to
the extent necessary;

(a) to carry out programs of in-
dustrial disarmament and demilitariza-
tion, of reparations, and of approved
exports and imports.

central

and communi-

(b) to assure the production and
maintenance of goods and services re-
quired to meet the needs of the occupy-
ing forces and displaced persons in
Germany and essential to maintain in
Germany average living standards not
exceeding the average of the standards
of living of European countries. (Euro-
pean countries means all European
countries excluding the United King-
dom and the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics.) ;

(c) To insure in the manner deter-
mined by the Control Council the

14

by the Control Council

equitable distribution of essential’ com:
modities between the several zones so
as to produce a balanced economy
throughout Getmany and reditce the
need for imports.

(d) To control German industry and
all economic and financial international
transactions, including exports and
imports, with the aim of preventing
Germany from developing a war po-
tential and of achieving the other ob-
jectives named _ herein. ;

(e) To control all German public or
private scientific bodies, research ‘and
experimental institutions, laboratories,
etc., connected with economic activities.

16. In the imposition and = main-
tenance of economic controls estab-
lished by the Control Council, German
administrative machinery “shall” be
created and the German authorities
shall be required to the fullest extent
practicable to proclaim and~ assume
administration of such controls. Thus,
it should be brought home to the Ger-
man people that’ the responsibility for
the administration of such controls
and any breakdown in these controls
will rest with themselves. Any German
controls which may run counter to the

objectives of occupation will be
prohibited. _

17. Measures shall be promptly taken:
(a) to effect essential repair of
transport;

(b) to enlarge coal production;

(c) to maximize agricultural output;

(d) to effect emergency repair of
housing and essential utilities.

18. Appropriate steps shall be taken
to exercise
control and the power of disposition
over German-owned external assets not

--- Page 18 ---
already under the control of the United
Nations which have taken part in the
war against Germany.

19. Payment of Reparations should
leave enough resources to enable the
German people to subsist without
external assistance. In working out the
economic balance of Germany, the
necessary means must be provided to
pay for imports approved by the Con-
trol Council in Germany. The proceeds
of exports from current production
and stocks shall be available in the first
place for payment for such imports.

The above clause will not apply to
the equipment and products referred
to in paragraph 4 (a) and 4 (b) of the
Reparations Agreement.

\V.
REPARATIONS FROM GERMANY

In accordance with the Crimea decis-
ion that. Germany be compelled to
compensate. to the greatest — possible
extent for the loss and suffering that
she has caused to the United Nations
and for which the German people
cannot escape responsibility, the follow-
ing. agreement on. reparations was
reached:

1. Reparation claims of the U.S.S.R.
shall be met by removals from the zone
of Germany occupied by the U.S.S.R.
and from appropriate German external
assets.

2. The U.S.S.R. undertakes to ‘settle
the reparation claims of Poland from
its own share of reparations.

3. The reparation claims of the
United States, the United Kingdom and
other countries entitled to reparations
shall be met from the Western Zones
and from appropriate German external
assets.

15

4. In addition to -the reparations to
be taken by’ the U.S.S.R. from its own
zone of occupation, the U.S.S.R.. shall
receive additionally from the Western
Zones:

(a) 15 per cent of such usable and
complete industrial capital equipment,
in the first place from the metallurgical,
chemical and machine manufacturing
industries, as is unnecessary for the
German peace economy and should be
removed from the Western Zones’ of
Germany in exchange for an equivalent
value of food, coal, potash, zinc, timber,
clay products, petroleum, products, and
such other commodities as may be
agreed upon. :

(b) 10 per cent. of such industrial
capital equipment as is unnecessary for
the German peace economy and should
be removed from the Western ‘Zones,
to be transferred to the. Soviet Gov-
ernment on reparations account without
payment or exchange of any kind in
return. .

Removals of equipment as provided
in (a) and (b) above shall be made
simultaneously.

5. The amount of equipment to be
removed from the Western Zones on
account of reparations must be deter-
mined within six months from now at
the latest:

6. Removals of industrial capital
equipment shall begin as soon as pos-.
sible and shall be completed within two
years from the determination specified
in pargaraph 5. The delivery of products
covered by. 4 (a) above shall begin as
soon as possible and shall be made by
the U.S.S.R. in agreed installments
within five years of the date hereof.

The determination of the amount and
character of the industrial capital equip-

--- Page 19 ---
ment unnecessary for the German peace
economy. and therefore available for
reparation. ‘shall be made by the Contral
Council. under policies fixed. by the
Allied Commission on Reparations, with
the participation of France, subject to
the final approval of the Zone Comman-
der in the Zone from which the equip-
ment is to be removed.

7. Prior. to the fixing of the total
amount. of. equipment .subject to re-
moval, advance deliveries shall be made
in-respect of such equipment. as will be
determined to be eligible: for delivery
in ,accordance .with. the procedure set
forth.in the last sentence -of para-
graph 6.

~8. The Soviet Government renounces
all: claims in respect of reparations to
shares’ of» German enterprises which
are located in the Western Zones of oc-
cupation. in Germany, as well as to
German foreign assets in’ all countries
except those specified in paragraph 9
below.

9. The Governments of the United
Kingdom and United States of America
renounce their claims in respect of
reparations to.shares of German enter-
prises -which are locatéd in the Eastern
Zone’ of occupation in Germany, as well
as to German foreign assets in Bul-
garia, Finland, Hungary, Romania and
Eastern Austria.

10. The Soviet Government makes
no claims to gold captured’by the Allied
troops: in Germany.

. V.
DISPOSAL OF THE GERMAN NAVY
AND: MERCHANT MARINE
The: Conference agreed in principle
upon arrangements for the use and
disposal of. the _ surrendered German

16

Fleet and merchant ‘ships. It was decided
that the three Governments would ap-
point experts to work out ‘together
detailed plans to give effect to. the
agreed principles. A further joint state-
ment will be published simultaneously
by the three Governments in due
course. ;
Vi
CITY OF KOENIGSBERG AND
THE ADJACENT AREA

The Conference examined a proposal
by the Soviet Government that, pending
the final determination of ‘territorial
questions at the peace settlement, the
section of the western frontier of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
which is adjacent to the Baltic Sea
should pass from a point on the eastern
shore of the Bay of Danzig to the east,
north. of Braunsberg-Goldap, to the
meeting point. of the frontiers of
Lithuania, the Polish Republic and East
Prussia.

The Conference has agreed in principle
to the proposal of the Soviet Govern-
ment concerning the ultimate transfer
to the Soviet Union of the City of
Koenigsberg and the area adjacent to
it as described above, subject to expert
examination of the actual frontier.

The President of the United States
and the British Prime Minister have
declared that they ‘will support the
proposal of the Conference at the
forthcoming peace settlement.

Vil.
WAR CRIMINALS
The three Governments have taken
note of the discussions which have been
proceeding in recent weeks in London
between British, United States, Soviet
and French representatives with a view
to reaching agreement on the methods
of trial of those major war criminals

--- Page 20 ---
whose crimes ._ under’ the Moscow
Declaration of October, 1943, have no
particular geographical localization.

The three Governments reaffirm their
intention to .bring these criminals to
swift and sure justice. They hope that
the negotiations: in London’ will result
in speedy agreement being reached for
this purpose, and they regard it as a
matter of great. importance that - the
trial of these major criminals should
begin at the earliest possible date. The
first list of defendants will be published
before Sept. 1.

Vill.
AUSTRIA
The Conference examined a proposal
by the Soviet “Government on™ the
extension of the authority of » the
Austrian Provisional Government to all
of Austria.

The three Governments agreed that
they were prepared to examine’ this
question after the entry of the British-
and American forces into ‘the City of
Vienna.

IX:
POLAND

The Conference. considered questions
relating to the Polish Provisional Gov-
ernment and the western boundary of
Poland.

A. On the Polish Provisional Govern-
ment of National Unity they defined
their attitude in the following. state-
ment:

We have taken note with pleasure
of the agreement reached among rep-
resentative Poles from Poland and
abroad which has made” possible ‘the
formation, in accordance © with the
decisions reached at the Crimea Con-
ference, of a Polish Provisional Gov-

17

ernment of. National. Unity recognized
by. the three Powers. The establishment
by. the British and -United States gov-
ernments of diplomatic relations’ with
the Polish Provisional Government has
resulted in’ the withdrawal of their
recognition from the former Polish
Government in London, which no
longer. exists. 7

The British and’ United States” gov-
ernments have taken measures to pro-
tect. the interest. of the Polish Provis-
ional Government as the recognized
government of the Polish. state. in the
property belonging to the Polish state
loceted in their territories and. under

‘their control, whatever the form of this
property may be. ‘

They have further taken’ measures ‘to
prevent alienation to third. parties. of
such property. All proper facilities. will
be given to the Polish Provisional Gov-
ernment for the exercise of the ordinary
legal remedies for the recovery of, any
property belonging to the Polish state
which may have been wrongfully alien-
ated. .

The three powers are’ anxious: to
assist the Polish Provisional Govern-
ment in facilitating the return to Poland
as soon as. practicable of all Poles
abroad who wish ta-go, including mem-
bers of the Polish Armed Forces and
the Merchant Marine. They expect that
those Poles who return home shall be
accorded personal and property rights
on the same basis as all Polish citizens.

The three powers note that the Polish
Provisional Government, in. accordance
with the decisions of the Crimea con-
ference, has agreed to the holding of
free and unfettered elections as soon
as possible on the basis of universal
suffrage and secret ballot, in which all

--- Page 21 ---
democratic and anti-Nazi parties shall
have. the right to take part and to put
forward candidates, and that represen-
tatives of the Allied Press shall enjoy
full freedom to report to the world
upon developments in, Poland before
and during the elections.
*

B. The following agreement was
reached on the western frontier of
Poland:

In. conformity with the erent on
Poland reached at the Crimea confer-
ence the three Heads of- Government
have sought the. opinion of. the Polish
Provisional: Government. of National
Unity in regard to the accession. ‘of
territory in the north and west, which
Poland should receive.

The President of the National Council
of Poland and members of the Polish
Provisional Government of National
Unity have been received at the con-
ference and have fully presented their
views. The three Heads of Government
reaffirm their opinion that the final
delimitation of the western frontier of
Poland should await the peace settle-
ment.

The three Heads of Government agree
that, pending the final determination of
Poland’s western frontier, the former
German territories east of a line run-
ning from the Baltic Sea immediately
west of Swinemunde, and thence along
the Oder River to, the confluence of
the western Neisse River and along. the
western. Neisse_ to, the Czechoslovak
frontier, including that portion of East
Prussia not placed under the admin-
istration of the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics in accordance with the
understanding reached at this confer-
ence and including the area..of the

18

former free City of Danzig, shall be
under the administration of the Polish —
state and for such purposes should not
be considered as part of the Soviet zone
of occupation in Germany.

xX. :
CONCLUSION OF. PEACE. TREATIES
AND. ADMISSION. TO. THE UNITED
NATIONS ORGANIZATION

The Conference agreed ‘upon’ the
following statement. of common policy
for establishing as soon as- possible the
conditions of lasting peace Ess victory
in Europe.

The Three Governments consider it
desirable that the present anomalous
position of Italy, Bulgaria, Finland,
Hungary and Romania should be ter-
minated by the conclusion of Peace
Treaties. They trust that the other in-
terested Allied Governments: will share
these views. :

For their part the Three Governments
have included the preparation of a
Peace Treaty for Italy as the first among
the immediate important tasks to be
undertaken by the. new Council of
Foreign Ministers. Italy was the first
of the Axis Powers to break: with Ger-
many, to whose defeat she has made
a material contribution, and ‘has now
joined with the Allies in the -struggle
against Japan.

Italy has freed herself from the
Fascist regime ‘and is’! making good
progress. towards the re-establishment
of a democratic Government and
institutions. The conclusion. of such a
Peace Treaty with a recognized and -
democratic Italian Government will
make it possible for the Three Govern:
ments to fulfill their desire to support
an application from Italy for mem-
bership of the United Nations.

--- Page 22 ---
The Three Governments ‘have’ also
charged the Council of Foreign: Min-
isters with the task of. preparing Peace
Treaties for Bulgaria, Finland, Hungary
and Romania.

The conclusion of Peace Treaties
with recognized ‘democrati¢ - Govern-
ments in’ these States will also enable
the Three*-Governments to © support
applications from them for membership
of the United Nations: The Three Gov-
ernments agree to examine each separ-
ately in the near future, in the light of
the conditions then prevailing, the
establishment of diplomatic relations
with Finland, Romania, Bulgaria. and
Hungary to the extent possible prior
to the conclusion. of peace treaties with
those countries.

*

The Three . Governments - have . no
doubt, that, in view of the changed
conditions resulting from the termin-
ation of the war in Europe, represent-
atives of the Allied Press will enjoy
full freedom to report to the world
upon developments in Romania, Bul-
garia, Hungary and Finland.

As regards the admission of other
States into the United Nations Organiz-
ation, Article 44 of the Charter of the
United Nations declares that:

”1, Membership in the United Nations
is open to all other peace-loving States
who accept the obligations, contained
in the present Charter, and, in the
judgment of the organization, are able
and willing to carry out those oblig-
ations. |

”2. The admission of any such State
to membership’ in the United Nations
will be effective by a decision of the
General Assembly upon the recom-
mendation of the Security Council.”

19

The Three Governments, so far as
they are concerned, will support ap-
plications for membership from those
States which have remained neutral
during the war and which fulfill the
qualifications set out ‘above.

The Three Governments feel bound,
however, to make it clear that they, for
their part, would not favor any applic-
ation for membership put forward by
the present Spanish Government, which,
having been founded with. the support
of the Axis Powers, does not, in view

' of its origins, its nature, its record and

its close association with the aggressor
States,. possess the qualifications neces-
sary to justify such membership.

Xl.
TERRITORIAL TRUSTEESHIP ;
The Conference examined a proposal
by the Soviet Government concerning
trusteeship territories as defined in the
decision of the Crimea Conference and

in the Charter of the United Nations
Organization. ;

~ After an exchange of views on this

question it was decided that the dis-
Position of any former Italian territ-
ories was one to be decided in con-
nection with the preparation of a peace
treaty with Italy and that the question
of Italian territory would be considered
by the September Council of Ministers
of Foreign Affairs.

XI.

REVISED ALLIED CONTROL COMMIS-
SION PROCEDURE IN ROMANIA,
BULGARIA AND HUNGARY

The Three Governments took note
that the Soviet representatives on the
Allied Control Commissions in Romania,
Bulgaria and Hungary have com-
municated to their United Kingdom and

--- Page 23 ---
United States colleagues proposals for
‘improving. the work of the Control
Commissions, now that hostilities ‘in
Europe have ceased.

The Three Governments agreed that
the revision of the procedures of the
Allied. Control. Commissions. in these
countries would. now be undertaken,
taking into account, the interest and
responsiblities of . the: Three Govern-
ments. which..together . presented. the
terms of armistice to the respective
countries, and accepting as a: basis the
agreed proposals.

Xi
ORDERLY TRANSFERS OF GERMAN
POPULATIONS

The Conference reached the follow-
ing agreement on, the removal of Ger-
mans from Poland, Czechoslovakia and
Hungary.

The Three Governments, having con-
sidered. the question..in all its aspects,
recognize that the transfer to Germany
of German populations, or.. elements
thereof, remaining in Poland, Czecho-
slovakia and Hungary, will have to be
undertaken. They agree that any trans-
fers ‘that take place should be effected
in'an orderly and-humane manner.

’ Since. the influx: of a large number
of Germans into Germany would in-
crease the burden already resting on
the occtipying authorities, they consider
that the Allied Control Council in Ger-
many should in . the first instance

20

examine the problem with special. re-
gard to the question of the equitable
distribution of these Germans among
the several zones of occupation:

They are accordingly instructing their
respective: representatives on the Con-
trol Council to report to their Govern-
ments as soon as possible the extent
to which such persons have already
entered Germany from Poland, Czecho-
slovakia and Hungary, and to submit
an estimate of the time and rate at
which. further transfers could be carried
out, having regard to the present situ-
ation in Germany.

The Czechoslovak Government, the
Polish Provisional Government, and the
Control Council in Hungary are at the
same time being informed of the above,
and are being requested meanwhile to
suspend further expulsions pending the
examination by the Governments con-
cerned of the report from their rep-—
resentatives on the Control Council.

XV.
MILITARY TALKS
During the Conference there were
meetings between: the Chiefs of Staff
of the three. Governments: on military
matters of common. interest.

APPROVED:
J. V.:SFALIN.
HARRY S. TRUMAN.
/C. R: ATTLEE

BERLIN, Aug. '2, 1945.

--- Page 24 ---
Soviets Reform German Education

A MILITARY Government
report, from US Headquarters,
Berlin District, is here presented
in greater detail than usual,
because it affords a glimpse of
the school policy advocated by
Russian Military Government;
the points of view of the Ger-
man school administrators; the
objectives of education in Ger-
many; and the problems of
education in Berlin and, to a
degree, in all Germany. This
material is presented for its
information value only.

RUSSIAN declarations of policy have
stated emphatically that no attempt
would be made to force Russian ideas
on to the Germans, and every attempt
has been made to exclude Soviet po-
litical views from the educational pro-
gram. One of the Russians first acts
on taking control of Berlin was to open
as many churches as possible.

The Russians immediately opened
Berlin schools of all types and on all
levels, with the exception of certain
academic high schools. Under the cir-
cumstances, teaching could only proceed
on a relatively simple level. Berlin
schools officially closed in 1943; ap-
proximately two thirds of the children
have since been evacuated. Conditions
of the buildings are roughly as follows:
25 per cent totally destroyed, 50 per
cent repairable, 25 per cent undamaged.

The Russians made practically a
clean sweep of the Berlin school ad-
ministration, dismissing 59 out of 60
officials. Karl Sothman, executive head
of the Schulamt says, ’These 59 were
not all rabid and dangerous Nazis, or

21

even necessarily party members, but it’
was right and proper that they should
be dismissed because they were all
typical Prussian civil servants. They
would have been an eternal deadweight
hampering any progressive ideas.” Soth-
man, who had been administrator of
schools in the Rhineland before 1932, left
his post for the obscurity of a health-
food store when Hitler came to power.
Deputy Biirgermeister for Education
Karl Schulze worked in the Ruhr, Silesia
and finally became Headmaster in Ber-
lin in 1932. He was dismissed by the
Nazis in 1933 for being a Social De-
mocrat. He then went into private bus-
iness selling pens. Both these men
speak of the degradation of the schools
by the Nazis and advise a rebirth of
education.

ELIMINATE NAZI METHODS

Schulze says, The Nazi regime placed
the entire school system, from insti-
tutions for mentally deficient children
to the universities, completely at the
service of the policies of the fascist
party: the preparation for war, racial
hatred and the inflamation of jingoistic
prejudices. After Hitler’s advent to
power, disciplinary punishment was
inflicted on all progressive liberty-loving
teachers; some of these teachers per-
ished in jails and concentration camps;
others voluntarily quit the school service
in order to escape the mental tortures
to which they were subjected by Nazism.

The entire body of teaching material
became infected by the negative spirit

of fascism which advocates the insti-
gation of racial hatred, the provoking of
war, the falsification of history and the

--- Page 25 ---
misrepresentation of scientific research.
To this mental and material decay,
must be added the destruction of build-
ings and teaching materials by five and
a half years of war . . . Further neglect
of the children must be stopped. It is
necessary to fetch them from the
streets in order to put them under the
educational influence of anti-fascist
instructors.”

To accomplish this, Schulze feels that
the following steps are necessary: All
teachers on whom disciplinary punish-
ment has been inflicted must be located
and recalled to their profession, if an
examination of their further conduct
so warrants. :

REGISTER SCHOOLCHILDREN

All active members of the Nazi Party,
SS, SA, NSKK, and affiliated organiza-
tions must be removed at once. Instruc-
tors who have especially marked them-
selves by supporting nationalist-milita-
rist ideology must also be expelled.
However, instructors whose character
and conduct attest to their desire to
adapt themselves to the new state
should be permitted to resume their
professions. The personnel who remain
after this sifting likewise require in-
vestigation with regard to their attitude
towards the Hitler system.

All children in the schools must be
registered to determine which pupils
were active Jungvolk leaders, not to
punish them but to enable the author-
ities to control and supervise them.

Anti-fascists, with no previous teach-
ing background, will be employed as
assistant instructors. They will assume
minor teaching responsibilities until
they have been trained as specialists in
particular subjects.

In the first phase, school: work will
consist of a simple program. The in-

22

structors, administrative personnel and
the older children will be employed
mopping up and repairing the school
buildings, yards and gardens. They
will also confiscate the old school books
and remove all facist pictures and
emblems, in order to associate the
present destruction with the previous
dangerous leadership. Pleasure in this
kind of work must be awakened in the
children. They will also spend consider-
able time doing garden work.

Organized games will be encouraged,-
especially .for the younger children.
There will be showings of Russian films,
as well as unobjectionable instructive
films. Reading, writing and arithmetic,
taught without the use of school books,
will be the basic curriculum. For reading
material, the children will be given the
works of classical authors and news-
papers issued since Hitler’s defeat.

Directives are being prepared by the
Division of Culture and Education ‘out-
lining future curricula in history, geo-
graphy, ethnology and biology. School

books will temporarily be issued in the
form of work sheets.

Instruction in religion, while not
mandatory, may be requested by the
parents.

ULTIMATE AIM SUGGESTED

The ultimate aim seems to be sug-
gested in a remark by Sothman, speak-
ing of the occupation authorities, ...
”*Your people all have ideas of freedom
and democratic principles firmly im-
planted in them. We want to implant
these same ideas in the German mind.
Your people have probably acquired
these ideas unconsciously, but we want
to know how they acquired them, what
it is in your educational system that
fosters these habits of mind.”

--- Page 26 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

German Comments on Re-Education

IN THE process of denazifying public
life in Germany it would be too much
to hope that we will de-Germanize it;
so interviewers and consultants should
inure themselves to complaints that
run true to Teutonic form and tortuous
rationalizing. The technique of the non-
Nazi is to assume a moral superiority by
insisting that the occupying authority
does not really need to do what it is
doing, or that it should be doing what
it is not doing. A few German attitudes
toward the educational situation illus-
trate the point.

1. WHO IS DEPRIVING WHOM?

First we behold a prominent adminis-
trator complaining as early as mid-June
that we hadn’t yet opened the schools,
while in almost the same breath he
admits that teachers should not only
be screened but re-educated. If the Ger-
man children of today are found to
cherish aggressive attitudes 10 years
hence, it will be this person or his spiri-
tual brother who will say that their
distorted perspective is a result of their
having been deliberately deprived by
Mil Gov of proper schooling during the
summer of 1945.

The German motto is, of course, that
charity begins and ends at home; so
while prodding us in our planned and
conscientious restoration of their educ-
ational facilities they can hardly be
described as sensitive to. any moral
responsibility for the situation of the
thousands of DP children who were

23

afforded no regular opportunity for
schooling during the slave years. In one
town, for example, where Mil Gov made
a special concession by authorizing
the opening of primary classes at a
date several weeks earlier than nor-
mal, the mayor has been consistently
adverse to loaning or otherwise placing
at the disposal of DP authorities even
the most essential school supplies and
facilities. The result is that several
hundred DP children with eager and
competent native teachers available are
handicapped in receiving their first in-
struction because of lack of even prim-
itive facilities. .

2. HOW MUCH RE-EDUCATION?

A prominent professor in a Rhineland
university comfortingly explained that
there is really not much re-education to
be done. After all, German teachers, in
his opinion (and he ventured to gen-
eralize) had maintained a high stand-
ard of education and had resisted the
spreading of Nazi educational methods
in schools. He added that it would be
valuable if teachers in Germany in
whom we placed confidence could see
the books which had influenced us in
our ideas of German education under
the Nazis and could compare their own
experience with them.

3. THE GENTLE GERMAN STUDENT

Another university professor held that
many of his students had gone into
the war not really anxious to win,
because they knew their cause was a

--- Page 27 ---
bad one. They fought for their country,
but under fear of the Nazis. Former
students were described as possessing
no political attitude in wartime, want-
ing merely a home, family, wife and
employment. The implication, con-
sciously or unconsciously fostered, is
that nothing but the removal of the
Wehrmacht uniform or the party button
is needed to.make a large segment of
German intellectual youth into peaceful,
democratically inclined world citizens.
There is no cause to dispute the as-
sertion that a number of German stu-
dents were anti-war and anti-fascist,
but it would ring truer if a professor
or two could be found who voluntarily
admitted that quite a few of his
students were. pro-Nazi or tainted by
Nazi ideology.

4. POLITICAL SHADING OF
PROFESSORS

Faculties were divided into several
categories according to their political
attitude: (a) those who actively support-
ed the Nazis, were probably appointed
by them, and who regarded the univer-
sity simply as an instrument of Nazi
propaganda; (b) those who were active
Nazis outside the university, but who,
within the university, respected the
tradition of its teaching; (c) those who
safeguarded themselves by becoming
party members; (d) those who were not
party members; (e) those who in various
ways resisted the Nazi teaching; (f)
those who feigned complete indifference
to politics. Generally speaking, half of
the members of faculties were des-
cribed as positive Nazis. The view of

24

certain German educators is that Mil
Gov should be relieved of the complicated
screening system and that the faculties
should be responsible for self-denazi-
fication.

Farmers Like Free Speech ©

Recently, in a rural town in Nassau
local farmers were addressed by the
mayor who told them plainly their re-
sponsibility for seeing that the city or
urban population didn’t starve. In the
open meeting following the address,
the farmers considered the practical
methods for securing the highest output
of potatoes, grain and milk. In the
informal discussion following the main
meeting, the group of some 40 small
farmers was eager to emphasize the
essential hypocrisy of the famous
”Reichserbhof” (Hereditary) Law to
protect the farmer in the possession
of his land. This law, they pointed out,
offered no protection to farmers like
themselves who owned less than 7%
hectares (18.5 acres) and as a conse-
quence many in this small-farmer class,
which made up a large percentage of
the agricultural community in Nassau,
had been victimized and dispossessed by
large land-owners who were: ”in” with
the Nazis. During this discussion, too,
the farmers were asked what they
considered to be the main advantage of
the disappearance of Nazi rule. They
answered in chorus: ”Freedom, the
main thing is Freedom. This type of
open meeting, for instance, would have

been completely impossible under Nazi
rule.”

--- Page 28 ---
LESSONS FROM OPERATIONS

NAZI STREET NAMES OUT

MILITARY Government has _ issued
orders to all local authorities in Bavaria
to change the names of streets, bridges,
public parks, waterways, mountains or
villages which had their origin in Nazi
times. Special emphasis is placed on the
removal of names recalling leaders such
as the "blood witnesses” of the Nazi
Party. New names may be taken from
German history prior to 1933. The
names must be approved by Military
Government.

REVIVING BOOK TRADE

THE book publishing industry in
Kassel has formed a steering committee
to assist its members in applying for
licenses from United States Information
Control authorities and to expedite
reestablishment of the city’s book and
publishing industry. The Kassel Cham-
ber of Commerce, under direction of
Dr. Hans Schade, is preparing a code of
“literary purification” for the city’s
book trade.

SECURING FARM LABOR
WITH the release and general exodus
of DPs there will be some shortage of
farm labor in Bremen. To date crops
have not been affected, but at harvest
time, unless some of the measures being
taken now are successful, the entire
potential harvests will not be realized.
Plans for securing farm labor include:
1. Use of German PWs,
2. Use of DPs who do not wish to
return to their native countries,

25

3. Use of German refugees who are
returning to their homes.

AVOIDING WINTER FAMINE

MIL GOV Officers in the. south-
ern Rhine region are pressing reha-
bilitation of the German canning in-
dustry to help alleviate the prospective
food shortage next winter. In the Mainz
district 17 canneries are now processing
foods or will be as soon as. they are
able to procure fuel and raw materials.
It is believed they will produce between
5,000 and 10,000 tons. At present they
are working on cherries, currents and
gooseberries; plums, apricots and
peaches will follow.

MAYORS FIX ROAD DISTRIBUTION

MILITARY Government officials have
placed responsiblility for the delivery of
food in this area on the mayors. In
addition to seeing that all requirements
are fulfilled, it will be the duty of the
civil authorities to warn any slackers
in the food distribution program and
if necessary punish them.

FRANKFURT TYPHUS UNDER CONTROL

SUCCESS of the campaign to eli-
minate typhus in Frankfurt is reported
by Public Health officers of G-5 (Mili-
tary Government) USFET. The former
SHAEF area, where typhus control was
planned long before the Allied armies
entered Germany, includes the liberated
nations of France, Holland, Belgium,
and Denmark as well as the occupied
nation. Since the first weekly reports

--- Page 29 ---
were made 19 weeks ago, 16,713 typhus
cases have been recorded, 1,272 of them
in liberated areas. The highest incidence
of cases was reached in the week ending
June 9 when 5,183 were reported.

RECONVERTING BERLIN LABORERS
' A BUILDING workers’ training center
(Lehrbauhof) under direction of an ex-
perienced builder has been opened in
the Neuk@lln district of Berlin to train
former metal workers as bricklayers.
Similar courses are being prepared to
train carpenters, masons and tilers.

NAZIS TO CLEAN. STREETS

MILITARY Government officers in
Wiesbaden have ordered the city labor
office to secure 300 laborers to remove
air raid debris and .rubble from city
streets. All members of the Nazi party
and affiliated organizations who have
been discharged from city and private
positions will be required ‘to serve on
clean-up squads. Other unemployed
Wiesbaden residents will be selected by
lot. Failure to report for the work will
result in prison sentences, Military
Government officers warned.

FISH DISTRIBUTION IN BAVARIA

IN AN effort to improve the food
situation in Bavaria, Military Govern-
ment has given permission to civil
authorities to distribute equally. among
the civilian population all fish caught
in the main Bavarian lakes—Ammer
See,-Wuerm See and Chiem See.

FRIEDBERG CREATES REFUGEE FUND

TO PROVIDE for the constant stream
of refugees returning from concentrat-
ion camps that pass through Friedberg,

26

the local biirgermeister has issued: an
appeal to create a special refugee fund.
Donations may. be deposited with the
city treasury, the district savings bank,
or with the commercial bank. Under the
burgermeister’s orders a community
center has been established where re-
turning refugees may be taken care of.

ABSENTEEISM HALTED BY JAILINGS

WHEN trouble arose in Kassel over
the number of workers who were not
reporting for work at the direction of
the Arbeitsamt, Detachment E1C2
ordered that those refusing to follow
directions be sent to jail. It was re-
ported that since this action, the trouble
has ceased almost entirely.

REGISTRATION OF GESTAPO AND SS

A NOTICE for the registration of all
members of the Gestapo and SS, ir-
respective of rank, has been prepared
for publication by Detachment E1F3,
Land Bayern. The former Nazi police
will be required to register at the police
stations of their respective towns, de-
claring all property, funds and valuables
in their possession, to the PC section
of the local MG Detachment.

Two special Fragebogen have been
prepared. One covers the time, services,
rank, pay, position held, names of
immediate superior officers, as well as
lists of persons arrested by the Nazi
Party for high treason or acts detrim- *
ental to the Party. The second covers
information of property, funds and
valuables possessed by the policeman at
the time he joined the Gestapo or SS,
and a statement of property held by
him as of 30 April 1945.

--- Page 30 ---
PRESS COMMENTS

As the Press Viewed Potsdam

SOME typical editorial comment in the
American press regarding the treatment
to be meted out to Germany was as
follows:

New York Times:

The terms are hard and restrictive,
designed to change the direction of the
German mind and strip the nation of
war-making potential. As far as the
German people are concerned, however,
the terms are not hopeless.”

Philadelphia Bulletin:

»These are severe terms, but Germany
has asked for them. The Reich has
greatly abused power, and its word is
worthless.”

Nashville Tenessean:

*Germany without claws, with a new
spirit and much smaller girth, is con-
templated.”

Cleveland Plain Dealer:

"In adopting justifiably hard measures,
the leaders of the Big Three achieved a
greater degree of Allied unity than
was discernible after either Teheran or
Yalta.”

Washington Post:

”We welcome the pledge to elevate
local government without at the same
time forcing a political break-up in
Germany.”

Chicago Daily News:
The Big Tree did not mention Japan,
but they said a mouthful about Ger-
many. Germany is going to stay dis-

armed and poor.”
*

The
follows:

British press commented as

27

The Daily Mail:

The Potsdam Declaration is one of
those documents which mark a definite
stage in the history of Western civiliza-
tion. Potsdam, shrine of Prussian mili-
tarism, can mean the end of that system
which has terriorized Europe for ‘more
than 100 years. The spirit of this declara-
tion is preventive and not punitive.
Germany must, of course, pay dearly
for the barbarous wrong she has in-
flicted on the world. -The most crucial
clause in the document decrees. the
complete and final abolition of the
German - fighting -organization and
everything even remotely connected
with it.”

The London Times:

The treatment of Germany is to be
just, though severe, and bears out |
politically and economically the declar-
ed intention of the Allies to allow the
German people to ’prepare for the
eventual reconstruction of their life on
a democratic’ and peaceful basis, and
to take their place among the free aud
peaceful peoples of the world.’ Germany
is held under a stern and_ necessary
discipline. There is to be firm control,
for exampie, of the judicial and educa-
tional: systems, and Germany is for-
bidden to construct not only _ aircraft
but any kind of seagoing vessel. At the
same time, nothing in the control system
or the system of reparations is in-
compatible with the unity of the Reich,
and a threat to the ultimate unity of
Europe is thus avoided. The importance
of securing and maintaining singleness
of purpose and policy in the Control
Commission is more and more
apparent.”

--- Page 31 ---
The Russian press made this comment:

‘Izvestia (Moscow):

”*The Conference .has strengthened
the ties between the three:.governments
and widened the limits of cooperation
and understanding. The statement is
clear confirmation of the firmness of
the Anglo-Soviet-American coalition,
and of the vitality of the ideas and
principles proclaimed at the Crimea
Conference six months ago. The dark
forces of reaction, fascism and war
have‘received a noteworthy lesson. The
results of the Conference create a new
certainty that the Governments and
peoples of the three great democratic
powers together with the other United
Nations will ensure the creation of a
just and firm peace.”

German Industry Speaks Up

THAT high-power German industri-
alists plan to recover their powers of
management over Ruhr coal production
and distribution was the subject of a
feature story by Frederich Kuh in the
July 18 issue of PM, in which he stated
that a certain group of former in-
dustrial barons have presented a scheme
to Allied Military Government for re-
sumption of control over the great
German iron and steel plants. The
individuals concerned belong to a
powerful group which from the early
20’s on began undermining the’ Ger-
man Republic and helped to finance the
Hitler regime. These same industrialists
who ran the great coal.and steel plants
which enabled the Reich to make war
on the world are now formulating new
plans to drive a wedge of their old
authority back into the German
economy. Their scheme, which was
presented to and accepted by the British
2ist Army Group, recognizes Allied
military control over the Ruhr coal

28

fields —- the richest in Europe — as
mere. window-dressing, with the ulti-
mate aim of re-establishing their own
grip on Germany’s steel foundaries and
even on the German banking system.
The document, which Kuh describes as
containing ”a project of cosmic impu-
dence,” was addressed to SHAEF on
11 June, 1945 and signed by two major
executives of the Rhenish-Westphalian
coal syndicate. Although it acknowled-
ges Allied military ‘control, the plan
proposes that "In order to carry out
orders of Military Government, a com-
mittee of five leading men of the Ruhr
mining industry should be formed. In
principle, the coal raising, coke pro-
duction, patent-fuel manufacture, ex-
traction of by-products, as well as
distribution of all products’ concern-
ed, shall be carried out under the re-
sponsibility of managers of the mining
companies and their selling and other
professional bodies, under the supervis-
ion of Military Government.” Fields in
which the Allies should refrain from
interfering are brazenly set forth in the
following statement: ”The financing of
the output must, in principle, be left to
the proper care of each mining com-
pany. In principle, the supply of ma-
terials for colleries must be managed
under their own responsibility.” The
program continues with an indication of
their intention to use their hold -on
Ruhr coal production for the purpose
of reactivating the whole steel industry
of Western Germany, and it stresses -
*the necessity of re-opening all in-
dustries producing materials for the
mining industry.” The PM article points ,
out that, obviously intent on keeping
as much of the Ruhr coal as possible
for rehabilitation of German private
industry, the authors of this plan "beg
the Military Government to consult
German management before allocating
German coal or coke for export.” In
other words, they would like the right

--- Page 32 ---
of German veto on reparations calling
for coal deliveries to the Allies.

In order to expand their grip on the
Ruhr coal output, the industrialists
continue with the suggestion that the
German coal syndicate carry out distri-
biition and transportation ”as in the
past,” and be allowed to resume its full
activity "as the organization which
proved satisfactory in the past.” PM
poses the question: Satisfactory to
whom? Hitler?” The German memor-
andum concludes with the statement
that if German industry is to assyme all
these responsibilitis, “it implies, of
course, that the mining industry and
its affiliates get full power of action,
free use of telephone, postal and travel
facilities.’ The answer of the 21st Army
Group to this project was to the effect
that the Allies will impose only a con-
tral, and that German management is
to be given responsibility for execution
of the entire work. PM closes with this
comment: ”On what terms it does not
state. It apparently is left open for the
five German industrialists named on the
committee to get their feet in the
doorway.”

Does Industrial Disarmament Lag?

ATTENTION of the press continues
to be focussed on the progress of in-

dustrial disarmament in Germany.
Asserting that all German armament
factories, whether above or under

ground, must be destroyed, a New York
Times editorial of July 12 stressed two
other points: first, that while there is
no danger of German rearmament as
long as the .country remains under
occupation, there is no way of keeping
a nation permanently disarmed after
military rule is ended; second, that the
war potential of any nation is always
relative to that of her neighbors.
“Certainly, Germany’s direct war poten-

29

tial must be destroyed,” the Times
warned. "The Allies have it in their
power to utilize what will then remain
of her industrial potential for the
purpose of building up’ Europe, until
this potential itself loses its grimmer
aspects by the new industrial power
developed in other countries on the
Continent, for Germany is now com-
pletely in Allied hands and Germany’s
debt to the countries she has ravaged
is greater than she can ever repay.”

Reports that German factories are
actually reconverting to a peace-time
basis faster than American industry
have caused some uneasiness among
American commentators. "While we
are still fighting on our second front
the Germans are getting the jump on
peace-time production, despite the fact
that this was forbidden in the White
House-State Department order for the
governing of Germany after the war,”
Drew Pearson declared in a_ radio
broadcast on July 30. Discussing Ger-
man industrial reorganization, a Soviet
broadcast in Hungarian by Viktorov,
citing the Crimea decisions, warned
that every possibility that .Germany
can again prepare for a new war must
be removed, ”and such conditions must
be created which make impossible a
resurrection of German imperialism
and German aggression.”

The Future of De-Nazification

STATING that "we have been trying
to ‘govern without a policy,” the N.Y.
Herald Tribune, Paris Edition, of
August 3 welcomed General Clay’s
assurance of a speedy implementation
of the Potsdam decisions regarding de-
Nazification and other policies, and his
statement that a final and definitive
directive will be issued to all Military
Governors immediately after the con-
ference is over. In the opinion of the

--- Page 33 ---
Tribune, this will be good news to the
American soldiers and officers in Mili-
tary Government detachments, who up
to now have been endeavoring to gov-
ern a conquered people without any
instructions on how to meet the com-
plicated industrial, economic and social
problems with which they are daily
being confronted. The long-awaited
instructions will advise military gov-
ernors exactly what to do with German
industry, and how far they can go in
the de-Nazification and de-militarization
of Germany.

The same issue of the Herald-Tribune
containing the comments of Secretary,
of War Stimson under the heading Nazi
Purge Going Well,” quoted Mr. Stimson
as saying, on the subject of de-Nazi-
fication: ’For the present, at least the
Nazi Party in our zone seems to have
vanished. Direct. military administration
is being gradually superseded by Ger-
man administration, purged of Nazi
membership and influences. This evolu-
tion has already made substantial pro-
gress, and is working well.”

Importance of Education Stressed

PRESS comment has placed much
emphasis on the importance of the
educational program of Military Gov-
ernment in Germany. The St. Louis
Globe-Democrat, in an editorial, ’De-
Nazified Schools,” welcomes the plans

for new textbooks, pointing out that -

textbooks as well as teachers must
change "if the children of post-Hitler
Germany are to be freed from the curse
of Nazi indoctrination.” The editorial
warns further that it is imperative that
every trace.of the hideous disease of
Hitlerism be eradicated from the schools
for the coming generation.” In similar
vein, the New York Herald Tribune, in
commenting on July 29 on the forma-
tion of a committee of German scholars

30

to reform German higher education,
hailed the committee’s action as en-
couraging, in view of the role of
scholarship as the most international of
all ties. ’The best hope of arresting the
infection from a diseased Germany lies
in the education of young Germans to
useful living in a peaceful world,” it
declared. John M. Mecklin, Chicago
Sun correspondent, drew attention to
the differences between Russian and
Anglo-American policies with respect
to the opening of universities. Pointing
out that the Russians are known to be
anxious to have the colleges reopened
as quickly as possible, while the authori-
ties in the US Zone have indicated that
they do not expect to reopen the uni-
versities for at least a year, he declared
that the educational problems ’’add still
another to the growing list of problems
faced by the American Military Gov-
ernment as a result of the difference
between Russian and Anglo-American
policies in Germany.”

General

MILITARY Government has come
under criticism from the New Republic
for its alleged failure to encourage the
growth of autonomous forces which
might eventually take over the govern-
ment of the country. In an editorial in
the July 16 issue, the New Republic
asserted that the occupation must con-
tinue as long as this policy was follow-
ed. "Apparently on the basis of the
theory that Germans are inherently
incapable of democratic self-govern-
ment, we are inhibiting forces which
otherwise might work in that direction,”
it said. "The world cannot safeguard its
future peace without preparing to con-
dition the Germans for a participation
in its activities commensurate with their
needs and abilities. It is in this direc-
tion that the only long-term hope lies!”

--- Page 34 ---
QUERIES

EACH week, under this co-
lumn heading, typical problems
received through channels by
Hq USFET Branches, will be
considered by specialist officers.
Official reply will be transmitted
through channels and summaries
‘thereof will appear in this
section.

Fire Equipment

Q. FROM what sources will additional
fire-protection equipment be made
available?

A. The extent of future production
within Germany of fire-protection
equipment is uncertain. Also, the am-

ount of fire-protection equipment which -

will be available from disbanded Ger-
man military units for distribution to
German civilian fire services has not
yet been determined. At present, the
only source of additional equipment is
that which can be brought from another
German fire department which has
excess over its present needs. The best
policy is to insure that equipment now
on hand is maintained in the best con-
dition, and that a thorough search is
made for all fire equipment in the area
‘which may be repaired or is of salvage
value.

Bomb Disposal Squads

Q. WILL U. S. military bomb-disposal
squads be made available for disposal

31

of unexploded bombs
civilian areas. “

A. No. ETOUSA Operational Memor-
andum 17, "Bomb and Shell Disposal,”
places responsibility for bomb and shell
disposal, where military installations
are not affected, on Military Govern-
ment, and further states that indigenous
services will be used in the discharge
of this responsibility. This means that
trained bomb-disposal squads, consisting
of German personnel, must be made
available for disposal’ of the unexploded
bombs and shells which may be en-
countered in the removal and clearance
of debris in German towns and villages.

and mines in

Legal

Q. WHAT German agency, or agent,
is at the present time charged with the
supervision of German remand jails and
prisons?

A. The Oberstaatsanwalte who are
members of the staffs of Landesgerichte
are at present the only German ad-
ministrative officials who assume re-
sponsibility for supervising the work
of prison directors. This task was sim-
plified prior to 1933 by reason of the
fact that several institutions in one
court district were governed by one
prison director, who coordinated mat-
ters of personnel and supply at, usually,
the largest of the institutions.

--- Page 35 ---
PERSONAL DATA

Returned to the States

Lt. Col. Edward S. Sweeney, R &T Bn,
ECAD

Capt. Bernard S. Barr, Det F1H3

Capt. George E. Bailey, R & T Bn, ECAD

Capt. John W. Bryant, Det 13G3

1st Lt. Carl O. Bartelson, R & T Bn,
ECAD

Ist Lt. Elliot S. Smith, Det PD-11

Ist Lt. James B. Little, Det E1C3 -

Lt. Marshal M. Goodsill, (USNR), G-5,
USFET

Awards
BRONZE STAR

Lt. Marshal M. Goodsill (USNR), G-5,
USFET

T/3 Raymond C. Brooks, G-5, USFET

T/4 Ruth M. Roberts, G-5, USFET

T/4 William R. Rogers, G-5, USFET

Promotions
TO COLONEL

Lt. Col. James R. Newman, Det E1A2
Lt. Col. James P. Pappas, Med Gp, ECAD

TO LIEUTENANT COLONEL

Thomas A. Brown, Det C2G1
Nathaniel M. Caffee, Hq, ECAD
Rockwell A. Davis, Det F1B2
Raymond M. Fisher, Det A1L1
George W. La Fray, Det E1C2
Lynn W. Landrum, Det F1A3
Krit G. Logsdon, Det E1A2

Carl C. Quackenbush, Det E1G2
Francis E. Sheehan, Det E1D2

TO MAJOR

Barney C. Barnes, Det 19C2
John W. Boyd, Det E2C2
Lemuel W. Boykin, Det E2C2
Ralph E. Brown, Det H5G3
Oscar D. Calhoun, Med Gp, ECAD
Biagio A. Carideo, Det A1D2 ~
James J. Egan, Det H1H2

Valdor L. Ehrenclou, Det H5D2

Maj.
Maj.
Maj.
Maj.
Maj.
Maj,
Maj.
Maj.
Maj.

Capt.
Capt.
Capt.
Capt.
Capt.
Capt.
Capt.
Capt.

32

Capt.
Capt.
Capt.
Capt.
Capt.
Capt.
Capt.
Capt.

Ist
ist
Ist
Ist
Ist
Ist
Ist
Ist
Ist
Ist
Ist
Ist
Ist
Ist
Ist
Ist
Ist
Ist
Ist

1st Lt.

Ist
Ist
Ist
Ist
Ist

Ist Lt.

Ist
Ist
Ist
Ist

Lt.
Lt.

Howard W. Fearing, Det F1D2
Jesse H. Gwin, Det E1H2

John A. Holbrook, Det 15G3
John Lindsay, Det H2C3

Calvin E. Perkins, DP-7

Elmer W. Prince, Det F1F3
Frank A. Sawyer, R & T Bn, ECAD
George-G. Stout, Det H1F2

TO CAPTAIN

- Donald C. Atchison, Det H3B2
. Carlton Banigan, Det 111D2

. Joseph B. Bellersen, Det E1G2 :
. Loren G. Bishop, Det 12G3

. Julius R. Buchman, Det E1D2
. Charles E. Carmichael, Det F1C2 -
. Earl E. Chisamore, Det E1F3

. George W. Coleman, Det I8G3
. Roland W. Cote, Hq, Ist ECAR
. Clem H. Dodson, Det E1C3

. Joseph M. Ficco, Hq, 3rd ECAR
. Henry H. Fick, Med Gp, ECAD
. Charles B. Frasher, Deet E1E2

. Charles C. Hardy, Det A2L1

. William B. Kriel, Hq, ECAD

. Herbert W. McFarling, Det H1F2
. Felix S. McGinnis, Det C2A2

. Christel J. Melchers, Det A1A1

. Ernest H. Moore, Det E1G2
August J. Neberie, Det I5G3

. Louis F. Noe, Det I7G7

. Jack G. OfMalley, Sv Co, ECAD
. Jonathan B. Rintels, Det 113G2
. James H. Rorke, Det E1A2

. Benjamin S. Schilling, GCA Cur
Leonard D. Schlacter, DP-7

. William F. Schmidt, Det I14G2

. Herbert Schwab, Det F1C3
James L. Turner, Det E1A2
Robert L. Wilson, Det B1D1

TO FIRST LIEUTENANT

2nd Lt. William B. Le Mar, Det 12D3

2nd Lt. Leonard T. May, Det F1B3

2nd Lt. William C. Olsen, Jr., Sv Co,
ECAD .

2nd Lt. Edward Sacks, Det E1F3

2nd Li

t. William V. Fralick, 119A3

--- Page 36 ---
HY

ena,
——
‘ HOF |
) Ge COBURG
.
guLMeacn™" “**
R
Sone T w yrds
PAmREUTH
¢/
vo WEIDEN
PEESRS wn) RLANGEN
sane, ; BREMEN ENCLAVE |
SOOKE i ye Julrback
RR? iu AMBERG
@NuRemBeRs ‘
CHWABACH $CHWANDORF
anes none
WESTERN 3S woltans REGENSBURG twats
De
EDISTRICTS x
% x <> Xm STRAUBING
¥
EUBURG
Done rach we }
ENGEN | ™
ANDSHOT Ns L
Ac ny
AUGSBURG FREISING
A
A

A
ort
AyWitingen

goseng fy Tegunsten

hy

bioe 0 10 20 30 40 50

--- Page 37 ---
