--- Page 2 ---
er -&S
£5
rl
\
u
aeety

No. 10 — 29 SEPTEMBER 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF
G-5 DIVISION
U. S. FORCES, EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
RUSSIAN ZONE

) sty GRZBURG . Y, yy, SLOVAKIA-=

ou 4
a\ JURNBERG
IS BERG ANBERG A oe
BRUCHSAL, ILBRONN:
ELA SBURG =~.

[a OS fo. é ™

= LISMTTGART S~-\cvuny

E

Aas

— MAIN ROUTES IST & 2ND CL
-*- DISTRICT ROAD IST CLASS

AUSTRIA

— SOURCE: G-5, USFET .~ STATISTICS SECTION
- > SEC GEN STAFF USFET

--- Page 4 ---
No. 10 — 29 SEPTEMBER 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

a aS :
& *
‘ -

eNO

OFFICE OF THE
ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF
G-5 DIVISION
U.S. FORCES, EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
CONTENTS

PAGE

Military Government Directives and Instructions Issued

this Week. . . . re.
Message from General Adcock . rn re)
Law Number 8 — Prohibition of Employment of Nazis » oe 6
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY... ........ ~=7
Military Government in’ Germany — Changes _ in
Organization . . . re
Displaced Persons — Past and Future .
Indoctrination of Prisoners of War . . . . . . . . 12
GENERAL........ 2. ee ee 15
Germans Today: Doleful and Angry . . . . . . . 15
Reconversion to Oil . 2 1. 1. we eee ee TT
Mass Repatriation Complete . . . . . . . . - . 18
One Half Million Prisoners to Return. . . . . . . 18
Control Office Established. . . . . . . . . . 18
German Officials Receive Remodeling Responsibility . 18
Trade Transactions with Civilians. . . . . 2. . 1. 19
GERMAN REACTIONS .......... . 20
The German Looks at Trade Unions . . . . . . . 20
War Crimes . . . 2 7 7 ee ee ee
VOICES OF EXPERIENCE ........ . 23
PRESS COMMENTS ......... .. 4. 25
German Re-Education Seen as Vital Task . . . . . 25
Refuguee Problem . . . . .. . 1... + ss 26
German Police Brutality. . . . . . .... . . 26
Greater Hesse . . . Coe ee ee 27
Occupation and the GI. 7
Random Comments . .-... . 6 5 eee ee ee 27
QUERIES. . 2. we 29
PERSONAL DATA ....... 2... ee ee 30

--- Page 7 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT DIRECTIVES AND
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED THIS WEEK

Political Parties and other Groups. . 19 September (file
AG 000.1 GEC-AGO)

Section XIV (Transportation), as amended

of Directives to Commanding Generals,

Military Districts, dated July 1945, Subject:

Administration of Military Government in

the U.S. Zone in Germany . . . . . 21 September (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

Property Control Accounting. . . . . 22 September (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

Prohibition on Wearing of German Mili-
tary Uniforms . . . . . . . « « « 22 September
(AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

CORRECTION

It is deemed advisable to clarify a statement appearing in the article entitled
"Policies on Replacement of Military Government Personnel” in the 22 September
issue of the Weekly Information Bulletin. On page 7, the following line appeared:
"Once the plan is put into effect, all military personnel in this Theater and the Zone
of Interior and all U. S. citizens in civilian life will be eligible to apply for the pos-
itions. Preference, however, will be given to military personnel in this theater.”

This line should correctly read, "Once the plan is put into effect, all military per-
sonnel in this Theater and the Zone of the Interior, who are eligible for discharge
in the European Theater to accept employment as civilians with the Occu-
pation Forces, and all U. S. citizens in civilian life will be eligible to apply for the
positions. Preference, however, will be given to military personnel in this theater.”

--- Page 8 ---
Message from General Adcock

The termination of tactical operations in Europe brought the first phase of Military
Government in Germany to a close. Throughout that phase, United States Military
Government detachments, faced with the operational necessity of coordinating their
activities with those of the combat troops, were frequently forced to adopt short range
measures for the expedient solution of emergencies. They handled their tremendous

responsibilities with great effectiveness.

During the past three and a half months of the static phase, the Military Gov-
ernment detachments in the field have on the whole continued to operate skillfully.
Now the long range policies for the Military Government of Germany are being

developed; the major tasks of control and direction of German life are being tackled.

The principal functions of G-5 Division are to control and coordinate the activities
of all subordinate Military Government units and to furnish them with all possible

direction and assistance.

This division is giving close and sympathetic attention to the problems and diffic-
ulties of the men in the field in order to facilitate their work. Mistakes and mis-

understandings which have been reported are being corrected and clarified.

The existing bonds between this Headquarters and the detachments are being
continuously strengthened through newer and broader mediums. A series of radio
programs is being initiated which will be of prime interest to Military Government
personnel and will deal specifically with the various phases of Military Government
administration. The present Military Government District Conferences are accomplish-
ing much in bringing to the fore and solving many of the problems encountered by
detachments. This weekly Bulletin is another of many more ways in which the Division
is endeavoring fo maintain intimate contact with Military Government personnel in
the field.

It is the desire ot the Division that it may be of aid to all in understanding and
complying with the basic policies which must be carried out if Military Government

is successfully to accomplish its mission.

--- Page 9 ---
Law Number 8

Prohibition of Employment of Nazis

THE POLICY of eradicating nazi in-
fluence has been further tightened by
the promulgation of Military. Govern-
ment Law No. 8, which prohibits the
employment in any business enterprise,
except as ordinary labor, of any mem-
ber of the Nazi Party or of the affiliated
organization.

The text of the law, which becomes
effective 26 September 1945, is as
follows:

”IN order further to eliminate the
influence of nazism in Germany, it is
hereby ordered:

"1. It shall be unlawful for any
business enterprise to employ any
member of the nazi party or of its
affiliate organizations in any super-
visory or managerial capacity, or
otherwise than in ordinary labor;
except as expressly authorized by
Military Government under the pro-
visions of paragraph 5.

”2. If any business enterprise not
now in operation desires to open for
operation, its principal official shall,

as a condition to its being permitted
to open or operate, certify it has no
one employed contrary to the provi-
sions of paragraph 1 hereof.

*3. Any business enterprise now
open or operating with any person
employed in violation of paragraph 1.
of this law shall immediately discharge
such person, failing which it shall be
immediately closed by Military Gov-
ernment.

”4. Any person violating any of the
provisions of this law shall, upon con-
viction of Military Government Court,
be liable to any lawful punishment
as such Court may determine.

5. Any person discharged or re-
fused employment under this law,
who claims that he was not actively
engaged in any of the activities of
the nazi party or its affiliate or-
ganizations, may appeal to the local
office of Military Government.

"6. This law becomes effective 26
September, 1945.”

--- Page 10 ---
Highlights of P olicy

IN a recent directive issued by Head-
quarters United States Forces, European
Theater, it was announced that the
designations of United States Group
Control Council (Germany) and G-5
Division, United States Forces, European
Theater, would be changed to Office of
Military Government for Germany
(U.S.) and Office of Military-Govern-
ment (U.S. Zone) respectively. This
change will take effect 1 October 1945.

In the Eastern Military District, the
Regional Military Government Detach-
ment and G-5 Section of the Army Staff
will be designated as the Office of Mili-
tary Government for Bavaria and in the
Western Zone, the G-5 Section of the
Army Staff will be designated as. the
Office of Military Government (Western

District). The Regional Military Gov- |

ernment Detachments for Baden-Wiirt-
temberg, for Greater Hessen, and for
Bremen will be respectively designated
as the Office of Military Government
for Baden-Wirttemberg, for Greater
Hessen, and for Bremen.

CHANGE IN BERLIN
In the Berlin District, the G-5 Division
of the Staff of the Commanding General
will be designated the Office of Military
Government (Berlin District).

The Military Government Detach-
ments at Regierungsbezirke, Stadtkreise,

Military Government in Germany
Changes in Organization

and Landkreise will be designated Offi-
ces of Military Government for such
Regierungsbezirke, Stadtkreise and
Landkreise, respectively.

The Deputy Military Governor. will
exercise the same authority with respect
to the Office of Military Government
for Germany (U.S.) as he has hereto-
fore with respect to the U.S. Group
Control Council (Germany). The. As-
sistant Chief of Staff G-5 Division,
United States Forces, European Theater,
will be designated the Director of the
Office of Military Government (U.S.
Zone) and will exercise the same auth-
ority with respect to that office as he
formerly exercised with respect to the
G-5 Division, including those relating to
liberated countries. The Heads of Mili-
tary Government .Detachments in the
Military Districts and the Assistant Chief
of Staff, G-5, in the Western District and
in Berlin will be designated the
Directors of the various Offices of Mili-
tary Government and will exercise the
same authority as they now exercise
with respect to their Detachments or
Sections.

It is contemplated that some of the
Military Government functions now
located in Frankfurt will be located in
Berlin in the Office of Military Govern-
ment for Germany (U.S.) with a rear
echelon in the Office of Military Gov-

--- Page 11 ---
ernment (U.S. Zone) in Frankfurt. Other

functions will maintain their main office
in Frankfurt with an advance echelon
in Berlin.

The development of central German
administrative departments and _ the
establishment of common policies by

the Allied Control Authority on the one
hand, and the strengthening of the
German Land administrations on the
other, will eventually make it desirable
to consolidate the Office of Military
Government (U. S. Zone) with the Office
of Military Government for Germany
(U.S) in Berlin.

Displaced Persons — Past and Future

THE repatriation of over 5,200,000
displaced persons in the six months since
April, 1945, is an achievement far beyond
the most optimistic early expectations
of Allied Military Authorities and the
governments of the United Nations. On
the other hand, the presence in the U.S.,
British and French Zones of Ger-
many of approximately 1,200,000 dis-
placed persons, most pf whom will con-
tinue to be a responsibility during the
winter of 1945-46, poses very real
problems. This summary seeks to
highlight the story of repatriation, and
to indicate the types of problems which
remain.

LAID FOUNDATIONS

The Displaced Persons Branch, G-5,
SHAEF laid the foundations for or-
ganized repatriation in 1944. It arranged
for the European United Nations Gov-
ernments to send into Germany Liaison
Officers for Repatriation to identify
and issue visas to ‘their nationals.
Standards were also developed for the
maintenance of displaced persons in the
period between liberation and -repatria-
tion. It was decided that supplies for

displaced persons should be requisition-
ed from German sources, but that in
case these sources failed to provide food
sufficient to allow a 2,000-calorie stand-
ard, supplementary rations should be
obtained from Army sources. A system
for registering DP’s was also established.

In March, however, it immediately
became apparent that many of the
detailed plans and directives developed
at this Headquarters could not be ef-
fected in the field. Greater numbers of
displaced persons came under the juris-
diction of the Allied Armies in a shorter
time-period than had been foreseen.
Means of transport which would have
been impossible in winter could be
utilized, with the result that displaced
persons could be repatriated much more
quickly than had been anticipated.
Although several hundred thousand
persons were repatriated by air, and
the aged and seriously incapacitated
travelled on passenger and ambulance
trains, the majority of the displaced
persons were moved by open box-car
and truck.

Thus, certain of the time-consuming
preliminaries to calm, orderly repatria-

--- Page 12 ---
tion were*modified in: the interest of
rapid’ movement. Registration at-.this

stage. was - largely. .abandoned. Head-

quarters ‘asked first: for: nominal. rolls
of persons repatriated and later only
required accounting for. the nationality
and number of repatriates. Furthermore,
although .a_ considerable . amount: of
screening was done before repatriation
— and for this CIC quickly learned to
utilize: the services of the DPs themselves
in detecting undesirables — the final
screening was generally done at: the
reception centers in the home country.

HIT. THE TOP

The peak period for repatriation came
during late May. and early June, when
60,000 — 80,000 displaced persons were
being sent back daily as a result of simul-
taneous movements of Western Euro-
pean and Soviet citizens. The daily rate
during the past two months has, of
course, dropped sharply. Although some
informal exchanges of Soviet citizens
had actually taken place when British/
U.S. Forces. first established contact
with the Red Army, mass transfer of
Soviets officially. began with the signing
of the Halle Agreement. on 22 May
1945... Politically,. this. movement was
complicated in that many questions of
interpretation of the Yalta agreement
had to be settled. Technically, it was
relatively simple. Reception-delivery
points. were established along. the
borders of the U.S.British and. Soviet
zones. of. occupation and. British and
U.S. Forces were responsible for the
movement of Soviet. citizens. in. their
own area.’ Soviet citizens from -the
French. zone and. from the Western
European :countries were~'sent across
the American‘ zone. to the ‘‘established

points. ‘To-date over 2,000,000 Soviet
citizens have been repatriated.

The next largest national group. was
the French. Repatriation began on a
small scale in February and March and
expanded rapidly as Allied Armies ad-
vanced. The procedure set up was that
the SHAEF Mission to France reported
weekly intake capacity to Army Com-
mands. The Mission, in turn, was noti-
fied by telegraph of the number, des-
tination and date of all movements.
Approximately 150,000 persons were
returned by vair, and a considerable
number — perhaps 10% of the total —
repatriated themselves.

Informal movement of Italians began
in early June..A series of conferences
at Bolzano, Frankfurt, Rome and Berne
among representatives of SHAEF,
AFHQ and Swiss authorities subsequent-
ly. resulted in formal agreements. for
movements of Italians across.the Brenner
Pass and through Switzerland. The
reception-delivery points were at Mit-
tenwald. and Bregenz.

TOUT FINI

On 20 September, CDPX was able to
announce that repatriation of French,
Belgians, Dutch, Luxembourgeois, Soviet
citizens, Czechs and Yugoslavs had been
completed. Repatriation of Greeks and
Italians is virtually at an end. Small
ntimbers of these persons may continue
to be uncovered and repatriated. The
majority of those who remain are in
disputed ‘categories, ‘do not wish to re-
turn ‘or: will ‘not be permitted by their
Sates ‘to do so.

The following .table shows the total
number, by. nationality; repatriated and
on, hand:

--- Page 13 ---
‘Nationality Repatriated On hand

French 1,509,000 2,000
Dutch 274,000 3,000
Belgian & Luxembourg 298,000 1,000
Danish 5,000 a

Norwegian 6,000 _—

Russian 2,031,000 40,000
Estonian _ 21,000
Latvian 1,000 62,000
Lithuanian _ 48,000
Polish 89,000 822,000
Czechoslovak 135,000 3,000
Yugoslav 204,000 . 25,000
Greek 12,000 3,000
Italian 579,000 20,000
Hungarian 11,000 93,000
Bulgarian 2,000 _—

Stateless Saal 28,000
Others & Unclassified 20,000 59,000

5,181,000 1,241,000

The major question-mark in determin-
ing how many of these people will
spend the winter in Germany is the
Polish problem. Negotiations among
U.S., British and Soviet authorities are
now in progress for Polish repatriation.
The problems of transport to the
Western border of New Poland and
Polish reception-capacity to absorb re-
patriates loom large and become pro-
gressively more difficult as winter ap-
proaches. Recognition of the Polish
Government by the Big Three and the
Potsdam Declaration have encouraged
well over a majority of the Polish DPs
to return when repatriation can be
arranged.

Since it is almost certain that more
than a million DPs will remain in the
U.S., British and French zones of Ger-
many throughout the winter, the Allied
Governments must reorient their activi-
ties for displaced persons. At the same
time, changes are being made in the

10

organizational structure and ‘personnel
dealing with displaced persons. Whien
SHAEF ‘was dissolved,’ its DP’ Braich
carried on under the title “Combined
Displaced Persons Executive,” '' with
three chiefs, representing the U.S.
British and French zones, but with
unchanged responsibilities. Also, in past
months ‘progressive steps have ‘been
taken to turn over to UNRRA increasing
responsibilities for DPs. A new agree-
ment with UNRRA -in now being’ ne-
gotiated with the American Zone. Under
this agreement, UNRRA would have full
responsibility for the administration of
Assembly Centers, for directing the
activities of voluntary agencies, for the
operation of an Enquiry and Tracing
Bureau, for the preparation of statistical
and research reports and for initiating
arrangements for the movements of
DPs. The Army will retain the respon-
sibility for securing and delivering the
necessary food, supplies, and equipment;
for external security enforcement; for
transporting displaced persons; and for
the provision to UNRRA of administ-
rative facilities. Thus UNRRA would
become the principal executive auth-
ority for the DP operation, although
over-all responsibility would reniain in
military hands. Similar agreements are
in process of negotation for the British
and French Zones.

Concurrently, there has been a change
of emphasis in the displaced persons
program from the repatriation of the
greatest number of people in’ the
shortest possible time to problems of
care. Instructions relating principally
to the problems of supply and: equip-
ment were contained in an USFET letter
(AG 383.7. GEC—AGO, 31 August
1945) on ”Procedure for the Care of
United Nations Displaced Persons.” »

--- Page 14 ---
Food is one of the. most pressing
problems. During-the early stages con-
siderable quantities of army stocks were
distributed, but the preponderance of
food supplies has come from local Ger-
man resources or captured enemy
stocks..In the future, however, increas-
ing amounts of imported. supplies. will
have 'to be distributed, and it is vitally
important that both MG and UNRRA
officers understand the mechanics of
requisitioning these supplies. Morever,
considerable improvement in the variety
of food is required. A recent USFET
directive (AG 430 GEC - AGO 18 Sept.
1945) provided that a ration of 2300
calories was to be issued in DP centers.

Attention is also being devoted to
detailed surveys of all displaced persons
installations to determine their ‘suit-
ability for the winter months. In parti-
cular every effort must be made to pro-
vide wood-burning stoves and to: faci-
litate the cutting and collection of wood,
in. view of the anticipated severe
shortage of coal.

NEED CIGARETS

Further, the development of extensive
welfare, leisure-time and employment
‘programs for all centers is an immediate
and urgent necessity. The overall need
for amenity supplies such as tobacco
and soap is great. Newspapers, maga-
zines and books have been distributed
to many camps, but here, too, the need
is far from. being. met. Other objectives
are the provision of the best possible
medical and-dental care for DPs and
further development of facilities for
communication. with families and
tracing missing persons.

A special program is also being

11

furthered for persons — whether of
United Nations or ex-enemy nationality
-— persecuted by the nazis for racial,
religious or political reasons. An USFET
letter (AG 354.1 GEC - AGO of 22 Au-
gust 1945), Special Camps for Stateless
and Non-Repatriables,” reaffirmed pre-
vious policies that persecuted persons
were to be cared for in special centers
with the highest possible standard of
accommodations. Jews who do not wish
to return to their country of origin
are to be cared for in special Jewish
centers. At about the same time, a
liaison officer was appointed as a con-
sultant on Jewish activities to the Com-
manding General USFET. Further mea-
sures are in process to give to these
groups the special attention which they
deserve as the victims of special perse-
cution.

Thus, despite the fact that the job of
repatriation is three-quarters done, the
most difficult part of the task remains.
The coming winter in Europe will surely
be the worst yet encountered, so that
the provision of the necessities of life
in adequate quantities presents a real
challenge. Simultaneously, the institut-
ion of widespread programs for employ-
ment and leisure-time activities, and the
development in every assembly center
of .a genuine community life, are urgent
necessities. Even these, however, .are
stop-gap measures. While it now ap-
pears that the number of non-repatri-
able persons will be less than had been
anticipated, the permanent resettlement
of those who do remain is still the main
objective, and it is upon the ability
to achieve that objective fully that the
ultimately succeed or fail.

--- Page 15 ---
Indoctrination of Prisoners. of War —

MANY | former Come P, W.’s $ are
beginning to find their way back into
civilian life and jobs. They are dis-
carding their uniforms, as such, arid are
gathering together the. shreds of a way
of living entirely new to them. In many
cases, it will be necessary ‘that these
men assume positions of responsibility
in their village or Kreis.

So Military Government Officers will
know these men better and will know
exactly .what they may expect the
attitudes of these men to be toward
nazism, militarism, and the crimes: of
their leaders, the Bulletin will print
articles from time to time on ; what
happens to prisoners before they. leave
their cage and on what the U. S. Army
is doing to indoctrinate them with our
ideals and system of government.

If German prisoners of war are not
convinced by now of the enormity of
their country’s crimes, it will not be the
fault of the Americans who run the
POW camps. Every nazi prisoner behind
the barbed-wire enclosures has to look
at atrocity pictures posted on the
bulletin board and at movies of Dachau.

After the picture showing he must
listen to the following speech. It was
written ‘by the commander of a prison
camp in Italy. It was considered so good
that now it is used in all prisoner camps
under the control of the Fifth Army.

”You have seen here some authentic
actual photographs of atrocities com-
mitted by German people. These things
were done by Germans on a vast scale
throughout Germany and the occupied
countries of Europe as a part of a
national plan to establish themselves as
the superior race in Europe and, as we

12

now know, eventually in the. entire
world, These atrocities were carried out
with the full knowledge and the explicit
direction of-Adolf Hitler and his: aides,
the men who promised you great things,
the same men you once idolized and
cheered so enthusiastically at their:every
appearance among you. These men have
brought you national ruin, disgrace and
the hatred of the entire civilized world.

SELFISH COWARDS

"Their last acts were those of selfish
cowards’ when, to prolong their own
evil and worthless lives, they exhorted.
you to fight on and on-in a: senseless
Struggle against impossible odds. Many
of. your cities were, destroyed and
hundreds of thousands of you Germans,
soldiers and civilians alike,..were thus
needlessly killed or maimed long after
those men well knew they had lost their
carefully planned war of conquest. They
would have you believe that you fought
only to defend. -yourselves against us,
that we.were the real aggressors.

”On the contrary, we fought for our
own freedom and for own survival, and
we .conquered. We knew. we would. —
for we. had to.

”You Germans, especially you soldiers,
always seek to excuse your own parti-
cipation in these things by ‘the plea that
you only obeyed the orders of your
superiors. Most of you will claim that
you knew nothing of these horrors
which were going on in your midst for
years, in fact from the very birth’ of
your National Socialist Party and ‘its
everspresent concentration camps.

We in the other countries in the world
heard reports of these things from time

--- Page 16 ---
to time. but preferred not to: believe
them, and were unable properly to
verify them. It is difficult for us to
believe, however, that you Germans
could have. been ignorant of all this.
Yet you did nothing to stop it and you
continued to worship: the leaders of
National - Socialism, including your
former idol Hitler.

The beginning of the war and your
rapid conquest of large areas of Europe
was but the signal: for commencement
of your diabolical plan to destroy and
weaken by starvation large populations
of the occupied countries so that they
could never again summon the strength
to successfully oppose you, the Ger-
mans. Mass murders and slow death by
starvation were a part of the plan.

SCIENTIFIC MURDER

”We first began to verify these things
when our Russian Allies overran some
of the occupied areas of Poland. There
were seen for the first time some of the
scientific murder factories your people
had built and operated throughout the
occupation. Consequently we and our
Western Allies prepared to find similar
things when our armies overran Ger-
many. We were shocked and horrified
beyond words, however, when we first
saw these things with our own eyes.
No doubt, we saw very little of the total.
The criminals responsible had succeeded
in concealing much of the evidence, but
they were unable to hide it all.

”Many of the directly responsible Ger-
mans have died and many more will
eventually die for these shocking crimes

» against humanity. Many more will spend
long years in prison. Those of you who
escape the more severe punishment I
have mentioned, have already paid a

13

part of: thé price for’ your mistakes in
your lost homes, your lost comrades
and the lost members of your families.

"You will continue'to pay for years to
come in the hard work of restoration of
the damage caused by the war, for all
of which you Germans are solely res-
ponsible. You will pay for years in the
loss of respect and in the hatred of the
other peoples of the world which will
cease only when you have again proven
yourselves fit to join. the family of
respectable nations of the world. It
is a.tribute to our humanity that.we do
not make you pay with your lives for
what: you have done.

DIRTY FIGHTING

”We have seen only too well what we
would: have suffered had we been so
unfortunate as to be conquered by you.’
Your brutality and that of your leaders
was demonstrated many times to our
fighting men-who faced you through
the long years of combat.. They observed
how, as the tide turned against you,
you resorted to any and every kind of.
dirty fighting that you could. con-
ceive of. - :

”Your mines, your booby traps, yes even

your booby trapping of the bodies of
your own comrades, showed the depths
to which your nation had sunk. These
weapons made their appearance after
you knew you would henceforth be
going in only one direction — back -—
always back, so you had little to fear
in retaliation from us. They were the
tactics of a rat in a corner, but you
called it "total war.” You used the same
word to excuse the bombing of civil-
ians in cities, a practice you began at
London and for which you later paid
a terrible price. We repaid you a
hundredfold.

--- Page 17 ---
*Your country has, twice in the last
quarter of a century, plunged the world
into a costly and prolonged war. We
cannot allow you ever to do it again.
We do not intend; to. Should our re-
solves in this matter not materialize,
you may be sure thét you will fail again,
in-spite of anything you are taught by
your leaders to believe. You are not
strong enough to conquer the world
and you will never be.

FATAL ERROR

Do not make the mistake of believing
that because a people do not want war
they will not fight ferociously and to
the death if their freedoms or their
homes are threatened. That applies to
us Americans and to the other freedom-
loving peoples who have no intention
of ever being ruled by you Germans.

"Should. you ever, in ‘spite of our
present plans, succeed in arming again
and making war ‘on us again, the other
peoples will have good reason to decide
that the time. has really come to
exterminate | you as a nation in. the same
mariner it sometimes becomes necessary
to exterminate an animal that has gone
mad. There are some who have enter-

14

tained the idea as a result of your
actions in this war.

NEW HITLERS

"| predict that you will scarcely have
arrived back in your own country before
you will be listening to new Hitlers who
will tell you most convincingly that you
did not start this war, that you did not
really lose it, that you. must revenge
yourselves upon us for. the unjust peace
we wili impose upon you and that now,
after two trials, you will not make again
any of the mistakes made in the last
two wars, and the next one will surely
bring victory. I hope then that you will
remember some of these things I am
telling you, that you will remember what
such leaders brought you this time, and
will again, if you persist in listening to
and in following them.

*T sincerely hope that some of. you, at
least, become leaders on your own
account, men who will strive ,to rid
Germany of false leaders and dangerous
thinking, who will work long and hard
to restore Germany to her former place
as a respected member of the family of
nations. It will take a long time but the
effort will be well repaid in the end.”

--- Page 18 ---
General

~Germans Today: Doleful and Angry -
BY DREW MIDDLETON
(Reprint from an article appearing in The New York Sunday Times Magazine.)

TOWARD the end of his long life
Otto ‘von Bismarck, ‘envisaging the
outcome of a future war with England,
predicted that the English would be left
“with only their eyes to cry with.” The
Allies have not gone quite that far in
the weeks since the defeat of the des-
cendants of Bismarck’s legions but the
Germans are crying just the same, a
growing flood of tears at the state of
*poor;Germany” and the “cruelty” .of
Americans.

This lachrymal tendency develops at
the slightest. opportunity and is ex-
pressed’ in everything from copious
tears to low-voiced complaints and
pathetic appeals for help. My chamber-
maid, for instance, is sorrowful at the
thought of not having any soap in her
house; the burghers are almost tearful
when some homeward-bound doughboy,
with his mind on Main Street, shoulders
them off the sidewalks of this or any
other town in the occupied zone.

No tears are shed by the Germans,
however, for the people of Warsaw or
Paris or Rotterdam. A German officer
told me recently of the splendid”
horses he kept: when his unit was on
garrison duty. near Warsaw — at.a time
when the Poles were fainting in the
streets from want of food.

The Germans, of course, started to
pity themselves for Allied consumption
just about a year-ago. I recall an old
lady from Aachen who tearfully blamed

15

it all ’on those English who wouldn’t
surrender in- 1940,” . and the young
woman who said with a straight face,
”What have we.done to deserve this?”

The doleful attitude of the Germans
is accompanied today, in ninety-nine
cases out.of a hundred, by a sickening
docility. The two attitudes combined do
not form that proud, defiant character
which the Germans used to present to
the world as their national form. Indeed,
the most frequent comment one hears
from our soldiers as they watch the
Germans bowing and’scraping’ is, "How
in hell did we:ever get the: idea -that
these guys had“anything on: the ball?”

Once one has ‘listened’ ‘to the usual
quota of moaning, the Germans express
an attitude of wonder toward the Amie-
rican Arfny.. They cannot understand
how an army can be "so sloppy” and
yet at the same time be taking its ease
in Germany. There are not many parades
hhere,, and few bands (excepting, of
course, the usual ’Red Hot Seven,” who
furnish dance music for the rest of the
boys in the outfit) and’ very little mili-
tary chichi generally.

Talking to the Germans one gets the
impression that they are spiritually
wounded when they encounter an army
that does not live up to their own ideas
on how an army should behave.
Although the Information Control
Division of the United States Control
Council has labored assiduously to im-

--- Page 19 ---
press the Germans with a sense of their
own guilt in World War Il, there is as
yet no evidence that their propaganda
has even approached success. The
majority of Germans see no connection
between what the remainder of Europe
suffered at the hands of Hitler’s bully

boys and themselves, and they are sur--

prised or even shocked when someone
mentions it. The fact that they have
succeeded in convincing themselves that
there “is no’ connection between the
nazi excesses and themselves has made
them even more resentful of the Allied
occupation and the economic restrict-
ions which are being placed upon Ger-
many. — :

Now that they are convinced that the
Russians are not’ coming to this part of
Germany most of the Germans are
naming: Amiericans as their chief
dislike. This, of course, is only a local
feeling. They dislike the British most
in the British zone and the French most
in the Frefich zone. But it would be
wrong to believe that beneath their
docility and their helplessness, real or
feigned,. there is not a considerable
amount of hatred and malice.

BEHIND BARBED WIRE

Frau Miiller, whose husband, Heinrich,
is still. behind barbed wire up in the
British zone, and who lives in elegant
poverty in Wiesbaden, is typical, I be-
lieve, of the attitude toward the occu-
pation of the part of the upper middle
class in this zone. She is the wife of a
German officer and uses her position
as an excuse to act as a sort of advocate
for the disgruntled housewives in her
neighborhood. She is frigidly polite,
ignorant of almost everything that has
happened in the world since 1933 and
has an unawareness of social changes
which would be appalling even in a

16

Hottentot. Like the vicar’s wife in
"Cakes and Ale,” she is contemptuous
of everyone who is not "well born.”

”We all wonder why you are treating
Germany so harshly,” Frau Miiller says.
We are trying our best to be friendly,
but we are forced to stand in line for
identity cards and we have a curfew.
It is all very bad and it will serve you
right if the. Communists get the upper
hand here. You are not fit to govern
the German people.”

ICH BIN KEIN NAZI

Frau Miller, of course, is anti-nazi in
the sense that many aristocrats and
sham aristocrats are anti-nazi. She be-
lieves that Hitler and his gang started
toward defeat when they broke with the
old German officer caste, of which ‘her
husband is a member; she sees no reason
why the Americans should not restore
this caste. to power. She has an almost
pathological feeling for Grafs and
Ritters, and she has informed me nine
times that. the commander of her
husband’s division, Graf von something
or other, was a ’most knightly soldier.”

This adherence to the old aristocratic
traditions is not infrequent in the
dwindling upper middle class, but ex-
cept among a few of the peasants it is
almost unknown among the workers.
However, they say the same things in
a different way.

Hans Liift, here in Frankfurt, is the
son of a grocer; he went into the I. G.
Farben plant at Héchst before joining
the army. Now, with a crippled left leg,
he is a fanatic Communist and about
the only thing he has in common with
Frau. Miiller is that he too hates
Americans. _

"You are a people with no appreciation
for Germany,” he says. "Then, too, you

--- Page 20 ---
are not Europeans, and you are not in
touch with European feelings. How do
you think we feel when we cannot walk
on our own streets at night? Don’t you
realize that we want to run Germany
for ourselves and that only Germans
can do it? Another war? Don’t be stupid.
Germany would never think of war
again.” ;

WINTER WOES

Lift and his friends pull out all the
stops when they discourse on Germany's
woes during the coming winter.

”Wood, wood! We are told to cut
wood when we need coal,” grieves Hans.
“ Germans connected with industry say
bitterly that the Americans intend to
starve Germany and talk hopefully of
how much German industry could
“help” America if only the occupation
forces would let-it. It is almost pathetic
to hear these people, threatened by
starvation and ‘disease. in the coming
winter, talk grandly of some I. G. Far-
ben of the future providing the entire
world with synthetic medicines. A few,
having read those articles in the Pots-
dam agreement dealing with reparations
and German industry, realize what is
to happen. :

”Germany will starve, this is the end
of Germany once her industry is gone,”
they declare.

Much has been said or written about
re-establishing local self-government in
Germany and eventually introducing
some sort of democratic government in
the United States zone. Few can quarrel
with the desirability of such a program,
but it is worth considering that very
few Germans like or respect democracy
and fewer yet have the sense of initi-
ative or ‘responsibility necessary to
make it work, or indeed know how it
works. :

17

Germans have little fear of Americans
now. They think we are.”Good-natured
and inclined to be lazy ‘and: very
sentimental,” according to 'a shopkeeper
with whom I talked in Kassel..”"Now that
it is over, you want to take a rest and
not worry too. much about the Ger-
mans — isn’t that so?” he asked. ’There
are parties every night and much
schnapps is drunk. I think-so much is
drunk because you are unhappy: about
staying here. It will be better for Ger-
many when you are gone.”

Anyone trying to picture the German
attitude toward Americans and the
things Americans stand for must inevit-
ably mention the fraternization. There
are very few German girls who won’t
take up with an American boy and this
has naturally softened the attitude of
many of our soldiers toward the Ger-
mans. ”Christine is a nice girl,” they
think, and her mother doesn’t seem so
bad, and the old man was just like a
kid when I gave him those butts the
other night. Maybe they’re okay.”

The German today is docile and
subservient. He is angry at the restrict-
ions on himself and his business. . He
has been licked and usually he knows

it, but. he does not understand why he

is considered guilty by the outside
world. And, although he is quite careful
to hide..it, there is anger and hate
beneath. the surface. As yet there is no
general urge to rebuild Germany but
when it appears it will probably. use
that anger as the driving force.

Reconversion to Oil.

ACTION is being initiated immedi-
ately throughout the» U.S, Zone to
convert all central heating systems using

--- Page 21 ---
coal to oil-fired equipment where oil-
fired equipment is available locally for
installation. Because of non-availability
of suitable equipment, no attempts are
being made to convert private residen-
ces, Grates. and other .coal-burning ap-
paratus which has to be removed in the
conversion’ to oil should be carefully
stored so that it will be readily available
for reconversion to coal whenever the
German coal situation improves.

Plans for conversion of other central
heating systems for which oil-fired
equipment is not available locally should
be. completed .at the earliest possible
date, and requirements for oil burners,
storage tanks, and other materials
forwarded to U.S. Forces, European
Theater, Headquarters.

Mass Repatriation Complete

IT. WAS recently announced by U.S.
Forces, European Theater, Combined
Displaced Persons Executive, that the
mass repatriation of French, Belgian,
Luxembourg, Netherland, Norwegian,
Danish, Czechoslovak, Soviet, and
Yugoslav nationals is complete. Of these
nationals. there now remain only scat-
tered individuals and others with doubt-
ful claims to these nationalities. Limited
numbers of individuals claiming these
nationalities will continue to be re-
patriated from the Soviet Zone and
from the US/BR/FR Zones as they are
identified and their nationality is
established by their Government Liaison
Officers for Repatriation.

One Half Million Prisoners
to Return

IT IS expected that approximately
500,000 German prisoners of war from

18

the Soviet zone will be processed
through Berlin for release in the British,
French, and U.S. zones in Germany
within the next month.

Shipment of these prisoners of war
has already started and probably
will continue for an estimated period of
3 months. At the present time it is in-
definite as to how many of these pri-
soners will be moved to the U. S. zone.

Control Office Established -

BY A recent order of the U. S. Group,
Control Council, the Reports Control
Office of that Headquarters was dis-
continued and the Control Office, Office
of Chief of Staff, established.

The function of this office will be to
exercise a continuous review of what is
accomplished by the various divisions
of the U. S. Group, Control Council
(Germany). It will also be the res-
ponsibility of this office to coordinate
and supervise the system of Military
Government reporting, etc.

German Officials Receive
Remodeling Responsibility

A RECENT Ordinance published by
Military Government placed responsi-
bility on German officials for the
renovating of former German army
and nazi party uniforms. . The senior
German official at each level of Gov-
ernment was directed to initiate and
carry out a program for the remodeling
and dyeing of uniforms and for the
collection and distribution of clothing
to those without other adequate clothing
whose uniforms are not adaptable to
remodeling or dyeing. The senior offi-

--- Page 22 ---
cial at each level is responsible for the
distribution ‘ of: clothing as between
communities within the areas of his
jurisdiction. For these purposes, Biirger-
meister and Landraéte shall have the
power to requisition surplus clothing:

The Ordinance furthur states that
without limiting individual responsi-
bility hereunder, Biirgermeister and
Landrate shall be responsible for insuring
that such a program is carried out
within their areas.

Trade Transactions with Civilians

INSTRUCTIONS have been issued to
all Military Government Detachments to
discontinue the practice of sending

19

uninvited Germans civilians to U.S.
Forces European Theater Headquarters
to negogiate trade transactions.

It was directed that such matters
should be discussed with the Germans,
and, if possible, settled at the detach-
ment or army level. In cases when re-
ference to Headquarters U.S. Forces
European Theater appears necessary,
facts and. recommendations should be
forwarded through the army “com-
mander.

Army commanders will be notified if
and when Headquarters U.S. Forces
European Theater desires consultation
with German civilians in determining
action on any particular problem.

--- Page 23 ---
German Reactions

The German Looks at

Trade Unions

THE PRELIMINARY work in the or-
ganization of trade unions is well under
way and considerable interest in them
has been expressed by the working
class. Nevertheless, there is by no means
a unanimity of opinion. All attitudes,
ranging from great enthusiasm to cyni-
cal pessimism, have been encountered.
Those who incline to the latter point
of view maintain that there is no reason
for having labor organizations at
present because Military Government
will make all decisions governing rates
of pay and working conditions, ”so
why pay out dues for the salaries of
labor officials who can and will do
nothing?” In at least one industrial plant
this feeling became so strong that
demands were made by the workers for
the return of their initiation fees and
dues. It has been alleged also, more or
less in the same pessimistic vein, that
union membership rolls are "sucker
lists,” to be used for the recruitment of
forced labor (to which there is no
objection in principle on the part of the
trade unionists, but they maintain that
in practice former nazis should be
selected for the more arduous and
unpleasant tasks).

At the other extreme, and in far
greater number, are the labor class
militants, consisting either of former
trade unionists or of active members
of leftist political groups. They have

20

welcomed with enthusiasm the opport-
unity to set up labor organizations and
have taken the initiative in getting them
started. However, between the two
wings of this group there is at present
developing a divergence of opinion over
the role the new organizations are to
play in the national life. The simon-
pure unionists favor a non-political
orientation while the others, as might be
expected, see in the labor groups a
powerful adjunct of the new political
parties.

Between the two extremes, defeatists
and militants, is the great mass of Ger-
man workers. It would be unjust to state
that apathy or indifference is the prin-
cipal characteristic of this group, but
certainly the most that can be said is
that they are watchfully and expectantly
awaiting developments. The timidity, the
fear of making any kind of commit-
ment, which one encounters throughout
Germany today, is especially strong in
fields closely connected with politics.
The German knows, of course, that as
long as Military Government is here, his
right to union membership is guarant-
eed. But he fears that when it leaves he
may find that he joined the wrong”
union. Denazification is the order of
the day at present, but under a central
German government it might become
*deunionization”. Then, too, the pre-
occupation with the needs of daily

--- Page 24 ---
existence leaves little room in the mind ;

of the average German for speculation’

over trade union or ‘political activity.
It is’ perhaps remarkable that under
the circtimstances labor organizations
have.been able to make any headway
at‘all. That they have made some head-
way is attributable, largely, to the great
efforts put forth by the militants. In
this ‘connection itis to be noted that
in some’ localities these militants have
been accused of adopting measures which
are very fiearly coercive. The worker is
told, in effect, that if he does not join
a union he may. possibly lose his
position. Again, a case: has been re-
ported of nazis being told that their
names would be removed from the offi-
cial’ roll of the NSDAP upon their
joining the union.

Although the negativism encountered
in.certain circles has been a deterrent to
trade. union ‘development, in others it
has had -the opposite. effect. .Thus we
find workers who are joining not be-
cause they are sold” on unions but
simply because the movement is spon-
sored by Military Government. They
shrug their shoulders and say, Oh well,
the ’Amis’ want it; I-might as well join.
It can’t-do any harm.’

The principal stumbling block in the
way of full participation in the move-
ment, according to some, is the
vagueness of trade union policy on
certain vital issues: (1) denazification of
industry, (2) membership of nazis in
the unions, and (3) labor-management
relations. As for the first it is felt that
trade unions could make themselves
immediately useful to Military Govern-
ment and to Germany if permitted to
elect committees which could advise
and assist in removing nazi influences
from industry and trade. There is some

21

.that nothing has. been
done toward’ nlisting their aid in this
respect. The question of nazi. mem-
bership is hotly debated both pro and
con with the majority in favor of sub-
jecting nazis to careful srutiny . and
deciding upon each case individually.
Labor management relations have given
rise to greater controversy than. any
other single issue. Labor contends that
it should be given some control over
management, at least in denazification.
It is claimed that as now carried out
in the factories it -affects only the
workers and not the white-collar group,
among whom the most rabid party
members are to found. Many workers
feel that unions have become merely
company organizations and will remain
such until freed from managerial
domination. Furthermore, management
is accused of sabotaging Military Gov-
ernment by keeping down production.
Reverse the situation, it is pleaded, give
labor an active part in denazification
an these evils will cease to exist and
labor unions will then overcome . the
lethargy of the German workers.

disappointment,

War Crimes

THE PROPOSAL has. been made by
a prominent trade unionist and Social
Democrat that a German jurist sit on
the bench in Niirnberg during the trial
of German war criminals. It is felt that
their acts were crimes against the people
of Germany. "Right-thinking” Germans
wish thus to symbolize the universal
condemnation by having one of their
countrymen participate in judgment.

At one of the first political rallies held
in the city of Frankfurt the collective
guilt of all Germans was disputed and

--- Page 25 ---
it»was. claimed that the whole world
should | be’ ‘charged.. with . the res-
ponsibility for Hitlér’s rise to power.
’’Probably. half of the letters which
appear in the U..S. published German
newspapers deal with the problem of
guilt.» A- wide range of opinions is ex-
pressed; ‘but the majority seek to  ex-
culpaté the German people or bring in
mitigating circumstances. One woman
writer states that: nazism was a mass
psychosis, but she feels that judgment
should not be passed on a people for its
subconscious impulses. .

Many U. S. Soldiers have had opport-
unity to observe German citizens look-
ing at atrocity pictures. The comments
Ovetheard are as often as not,
Unbelievable,” Impossible.”

When Kramer and his accomplices
were led into court in Liineburg they
were hissed and booed by the German
spectators. A German officer remarked
after one of the sessions that in the
Wehrmacht they had no idea that con-
ditions in the concentration camps were
so bad.

Over and over again the refrain is
repeated, "We didn’t know”. When
asked if he has ever read Mein Kampf”
or "Der Stiirmer” the average citizen
answers in the affirmative but will not

22

admit that there is any connection bet-
ween the “ideals” in these documents
and the . atrocities. in the lagers.
Streicher himself professes to be
shocked by what transpired there.

The incidents could be multiplied ad
nauseam. All of them go to show that
the German feels about as much. res-
ponsibility for war crimes as the
average Anierican for the acts of a
Dillinger. The Wehrmacht officer, the
little’ nazi, the subservient school
teacher, all contributed their little mite.
But when ‘the little mites add up to
horror and frightfulness on a national
scale all disclaim responsibility. Actually
there is only a difference in degree but
not in kind between the unthinking
contributions of the little men and the
wilful crimes of the Gestapo.

Even the doctors. in the camps who
carried on experiments in human
vivisection feel that their “research”
should be considered a contribution to
science rather than to crime. Kramer,
himself, believed that the inmates of
Belsen were subhuman and therefore the
treatment they received was not to be
considered criminal. In apparent good
faith he asked the first British troops
to arrive on the spot to help him
“restore order”.

--- Page 26 ---
Voices of Experience

LB MANNHEIM INSTALLS NEW
GOVERNMENT

THE NEW LB Mannheim government
is situated in Heidelberg and closely
parallels that of the Wiirttemberg-Baden
Land Government although some chan-
ges have been made to fit the local
situation. There are five different
functional departments; namely, Home
Administration and Justice, Public
Welfare, Economics, Education and
Religion, and Finance and Technical
Works. The Justice Department as a
separate department has been eliminated
because all the courts are controlled at
ministerial level in the Wiirttemberg-
Baden Land Government. The juris-
diction over the Administration and
Disciplinary Courts has been transferred
to a department called the Department
of Home Administration and Justice.
A totally new department has been
added because of conditions largely
brought by the heavy destruction
brought in this area. This department
is known as the Department of Public
Welfare and Reconstruction. The new
government is truly a coalition govern-
ment. The President is a member of the
Centrum Party as is the head of the
Economics Department and the head of
the Department of Education and Re-
ligion. The head of the Department of
Home Administration and Justice is a
member of the Social Democratic
Party; the director of the Department
of Public Welfare and Reconstruction
is a member of the Communist Party.
The head of the department of Finance
and Technical Works has no party
affiliations. Two of these departmental

23

heads were confined in concentration
camps by the Nazi, and the ‘head of
Education and Religion Department;
author of many secondary school
history books, had all his books removed
from the schools throughout Germany
by the Nazis.

LABOR OFFICERS INSTITUTE 7
CHECK SYSTEM

IN LK Karlsruhe, instructions were
issued to civilian authorities that no
civilian labor employed by the military
would be paid unless the payroll carried
the official Military Government stamp
for the Labor Officer of that Military
Government Detachment. By this device
Labor Officers in the detachments
are enabled to know the amount of
civilian labor utilized by the Tactical
Troops.

HALT UND GEH

IN Regensburg a concerted drive is
being continued on traffic violators.
Besides the regular traffic court, police
are preparing a series of traffic edu-
cational and warning signs and _ pe-
destrian traffic lanes are to be painted
in the city. Special traffic patrols have
been instructed to clamp down on
violators. The accident rate has dropped
to some degree in the past two weeks
but there is still a great amount of

--- Page 27 ---
negligence. Within the next few days
all:MP traffic.:posts will be replaced by
civil police. The present number of
civilian police on traffic is now 18 and
this will bring it up to about 28.

TALLY—HO

NO organized hunting parties have
been authorized, although recently it
has been proposed in LK Télz that hunts
be ‘authorized later ‘during cooler
weather. when the take can be expected
to be larger. It is the opinion of the
officials that the game taken in these
hunts should be. distributed to laborers
first and next to hospitals and. old
people’s homes. This, however, will be
decided by civilian authorities. There
have been issued during. the period, by

24

the local forestry office, thirty permits
for fishing in lakes and streams of the
Kreis.

CALLING MR. KEEN! .

THE Caritas Verband .anid the Inner
Mission, .in conjunction with the Ba-
varian Red Cross, have established a
bureau for missing persons. . German
people who wish to get in contact with
their immediate relatives register, at the
Headquarters. in Wiirzburg, Kdlliker-
strasse 4, .and this . information | is
circulated at Munich and in turn disse-
minated throughout Bavaria. Already
some have been successful in contacting
their mothers, fathers, brothers, and
sisters. The program has the approval
of the RMG Public Welfare Officer.

--- Page 28 ---
P ress Comments

ied os 7 7 Le a)

German Re-Education
Seen as Vital Task

PROBLEMS of re-education, the political
and economic situation and the progress
of denazification featured press com-
ment during the past week on Military
Government activities in Germany.
Operations in Japan continued a target
for some editorial critics, based on
fears that occupation policies will not
prevent a future revival of Japanese
militarism.

Hanson Baldwin, military expert of
the New York Times, in an appraisal of
the five months period since the Ger-
man surrender, declared that the Ame-
rican occupation forces "have accom-
plished physical results of major pro-
portions in Germany. But the psycho-
logical achievements, if any, are far less
definite and certain.”

The New York Times, in an editorial,
stressed the need for re-education.
"Demilitarization and denazification,
reparations and restrictions on industry
obviously still have precedence over the
most vital of all tasks, re-education of
the German people for life in the world
of today.”

Conditions in Germany continue to
evoke in the British press gloomy pre-
dictions about the approaching winter.
Typical of these was the following from
a London Times editorial: ’The political
and economic situation in Germany
today is one not of immediate and
acute crisis, but of slow stagnation, with
the almost certain prospect of. com-

25

Ea Th
sat THe CHRISTIAN Science Montror

plete breakdown before the winter is
over. — On the political side, the time
has surely come to place a greater res-
ponsibility for the administration of the
country on German shoulders. — On
the economic side, the pressing need is
a far-sighted policy for the con-
version of Germany industry to peace-
time production, whether for the pur-
pose of supplying the starved domestic
market or of furnishing reparations for
the Allies.”

The policy of denazification has re-
ceived general support from the Allied
press. Drew Pearson, in a broadcast on
September 23, directed attention to the
fact that 70,000 Nazis had been removed
from office in the territory administered
by General Lucius Clay, Deputy Mili-~
tary Governor. Some observers, how-
ever, have asserted that many Nazis still —
remain in important political and
business posts.

As the Nation sees it, the greatest
challenge facing General Douglas Mac
Arthur is ’the discovery and enlisting of
democratic groups within Japan that
can be counted on to oppose the revival
of militarism”. The Nation points out,
however, that the undercurrent of
popular unrest may not become
apparent until the present militarist
regime is driven from power, and that
waiting for this latent democratic force
to develop into a constructive move-
ment capable of regenerating Japan may
prolong the occupation. Such a pro-

--- Page 29 ---
longation, it said, .”is.. the. only
alternative to handing: Japan back “to
the groups:that even now are probably
studying the Pearl Harbor documents
to find out how they can improve on
the treachery next time.” :

The Atlantic Monthly, in its Atlantic
Report for September, warned that any
retention of the old system of Japanese
rule through its imperial core would
mean’ Japan’s continued isolation in
Asia. ’The imperial system has shielded
the Japanese people from the surges of
change which have been transforming
and modernizing that part of the
world,” the Atlantic Report déclared.
”Rid of that feudal incubus, a’ new
Japan might rejoin the peoples of the
Continent of Asia as a partner in the
reconstruction of their destinies.”

Reflecting a point of view that seems
to be widely held on thé home front,
the New York Herald Tribune asserted
on September 22 that General Mac
Arthur’s actions so far "have tended to
strengthen the imperial institution of
Japan, one of the world’s worst political
evils, and thus give more power to the
rapacious oligarchy which controls the
institution.”

Refugee Problem

POINTING out that the successful re-
patriation of millions of displaced per-
sons from Germany "reflects the highest
credit on the Allied authorities” res-
ponsible for the operation, the London
Times, in an editorial on September 17,
warned that ”a new and graver problem
is now being created by the wholesale
expulsion of Germans by the Polish and
Czechoslovak authorities from territories
in. the East.”

Correspondents for other papers have

26

provided graphic ‘descriptions of the
plight of these refugees and the problem
which this vast movement has created
in many parts of Germany.

German Police Brutality

CRITICISING the German police for its
alleged brutality, Peregrine, in the Lon-
don Observer, called. upon Military Gov-
ernment to organize a new police force
and scrap the present system. "It is not
the German people who really keep
order in Germany now — it is the
presence of Allied occupation forces —
and so far as the job is being done by
the German police, it is more often
than not done in the wrong way,” he
declared in an article written under a
Bremen dateline. "Behind the backs of
the Military Government, the German
police continues to boss and bully the
German population with the brutality
to which it was trained under the old
Prussian state police and incomparably
more so under the Nazis.”

*Must Military Government really
enlist the services of technicians and
experts at police brutality?” the Ob-
server correspondent asked. “It. is
probably necessary to pay some political
ransom to men who can run factories,
trams and public utilities. But it is folly
to pay such ransom to the men who run
the German police — the instrument of
Nazi oppression par excellence. The
instrument itself should rather. be
scrapped and a completely new. police
force formed before it is too late.
Otherwise the Military Government will
eventually discover in the present police
an awkward public disutility and. :a

--- Page 30 ---
constant
disorder.”

source. of. bitterness and

Greater Hesse

NEWS columns of the press gave. con:
siderable space to the announcement by
U. S. Military Government authorities
of the organization of Land Hessen,
Hessen-Nassau and Kurhessen into a
hew province of ‘Greater Hesse. Carl
Levin, in an article in the New York
Herald Tribune, said that this action
”*may go down in history as the United
States first venture. in German geo-
politics.” By a happy coincidence, Levin
explained, this action "is now found to
be the answer not only to administrative
difficulties caused by the fact that

Rheinhessen, on the left bank of the
Rhine, is now separated from the rest

of the area by its allocation to the
French for occupation, but also to the
occupation policy of decentralizing
Germany’s administrative and political
machinery.” At the same time, he added,
the move will tend to weaken Prussia,
”always a center of power and militarism
in Germany.”

Occupation and the Gl

WHILE demobilization continued to
hold the spotlight at home and provide
the number one topic of conversation
among soldiers overseas, the Army still
has a major job of occupation on its
hands in Germany, as in Japan. In the
opinion of Gladwin Hill of the New
York Times, the Army, which did a fine
piece of work in explaining to soldiers
why they were fighting the Germans,
has falled down on the equally important
matter of putting across the importance
of occupying Germany.

”A number of observers feel this de-

27

ficiency is as likely to undermine the
American occupation effort as any of
the. difficulties that may “arise in the
four-power management,” Hill asserted.
They. feel that the maintenance of
police power in Germany for a number
of years is essential to rehabilitating
and neutralizing it, and that if the
soldiers assigned to the occupation have
nothing more than ‘I wanna go home
outlook,’ this is likely to be the keynote
for opinion at home and to result in
the same kind of futile occupation that
followed the first world War. They also.
feel that the effort to convince the
soldiers on the importance of the
occupation must extend to the Amer-
ican public since, if the soldiers have
no moral support from home, their
work is no more likely to be successful
than it would have been if there had
been no support of the figthting.”

Random Comments

"IT have lived long in Germany and I
know that the vast majority of Ger-
mans, although prone to inhumanity
and devoid of political intelligence, are
capable under wise government of
great domestic and civic virtues. The
re-education of Germany can never be
effected by precept: it can only be
effected by example, and if the example
that we give them is one of indifference
to human misery, then indeed we. shall
have failed in our opportunity. The
fact is, however, that we shall not re-
main indifferent: when starvation and
death come to the German people, the
conscience of this country will be
aroused, but unless we face the facts
bravely today, then our conscience will
arrive too late.” — Harold Nicolson in
London Spectator.

--- Page 31 ---
Although the task of the Allied
Control Commission in establishing a
social and -political organization to
govern this anarchic mass is staggering.
yet it is encouraging to observz the
intelligent arid effective contribution
which is being made by the American
representative and his staff.’ — Ass3o-
ciate Justice Robert H. Jackson in N.
Y. Times Magazine.

* *

”T am sure we are all interested to
hear that German women are being
weighed. I presume it is in case the
poor dears are not having sufficient
food. We British women have too much
spirit to grumble at the shortage of
food, if it is necessary, but we resent
such care being taken of German women
in preference to ourselves. We do not
think it matters how much weight they
lose (most of them had plenty to spare)
until the women of Britain and the
occupied countries have made up their
weight.” — Mrs. N. C. Tufnell in letter
to London Daily Sketch.

* *

~The European taste for turbulent
governments is not a thing that can
be easily cured; nor can democracies
be established by the simple and tragic
expedient of tearing the country to
pieces by war. Democracies must be
built from the ground up by democratic
processes; and it may be that advertising
can be used effectively in the process
as a sort of catalytic agent.” — John
Chabot Smith in New York Herald
Tribune.

* *

This correspondent, after having
discussed the question with numerous
Russian communists and high ranking
officers of the Soviet Army, with Ger-
man workers and German communists,
has gained the conviction that Germany
will not go communist. The reasons are
rather clear cut: the overwhelming

28

majority. of German workers today are
not communists. And there is every in-
dication that Soviet Russia has no wish
that Germany should go Communist.”
— Curt Riess in New York Times

Magazine.
* *

Quick capitulation of the Japanese
caught the War Department short of the
kind of detailed plans prepared for
Germany’s surrender. But if the Em-
peror continues to command obedience,
MacArthur’s occupation job will be
simple compared with Eisenhower’s.
In’ Japan, the Americans will have .a
ready-made civil government to work
through, and none of the complications
of Allied zoning.” — Newsweek Peris-
cope.

* *

There ought to be a Congressional
investigation even yet of the accredit-
ation of ’war correspondents,’ the post-
war variety particularly. Evidently all
that was needed was a letter from some
newspaper, the price of a monkey suit,
and the gent or gentess was practically
a free European joy rider on ‘the gov-
ernment, provided with free trans-
atlantic: passage, free travel all over
Europe, free room, free chauffeur-
driven vehicular transportation every-
where, free anything else that even the
most heroic combat officer got free
and three better meals than were to be
had anywhere in the U. S. for 20 or 30
cents a crack. There was no check
whatsoever on whether or not they
wrote anything and there were plenty
whose baggage didn’t include a type-
writer. My managing editor tells me
that all through the war, but that
especially right after it, he was con-
tinually pestered by epistles from
strangers beseeching him to present
them with letters authorizing them to
call themselves war correspondents for
his particular paper.” — Bill Cunning-
ham in the Boston Herald.

--- Page 32 ---
Queries

Military Government in Austria

Q.. What is the relationship between
Military Government in Germany and
Military Government in Austria? Is
there any connection between U.S.
Forces European Theater and U.S.
Forces Austria? Just does
Austria stand? Many Military Govern-
ment Officers have voiced these
questions in the past few months and
have received only vague replies.

where

A. Military Government in Austria
is administrated by General Mark Clark.
He is directly responsible to the Joint
Chiefs of Staff for all matters per-
taining thereto. Contrary to popular
belief, U.S. Forces European Theater
has no authority over Military Govern-
ment of Austria. However, U.S. Forces
Austria does come under the Head-
quarters, U.S. Forces European Theater

29

for operational control and for logistic
support.

It is in connection with Military Gov-
ernment supplies that the G-5 Division,
USFET, has had the closest contact
with Austria. Under present procedure,
USFA submits its requirements directly
to the War Department and upon re-
ceipt of allocations, requests USFET to
make delivery. This USFET does either
from surplus theater stock or by calling
forward supplies from the U.S.

Thus the main function of USFET is
to act as line of communication for USFA
Military Government supplies. However,
due to the time involved in obtaining
supplies from the U.S. and to the
emergency facing USFA with Vienna
and most of the rest of the U.S. and
French Zones, always dependant on im-
ports for most of their food and other
supplies and with little help. possible
from the Mediterranean Theater,
USFET was obliged to arrange for
delivery of the following food tonnages
from its stocks to the U.S. and French
zoties of Austria: September, 29,000;
October 15,000; November 12,000, and
December 37,000 tons.

--- Page 33 ---
P ersonal Data

Dromotio Ns

AE

Gen. Adcock Promoted to
Major General

THE promotion to Major General of
Brigadier General C. L. Adcock, Assist-
ant Chief of Staff, G-5, United States
Forces, European Theater, was an-
nounced this week by the War Depart-
ment.

Major General Adcock was assigned
as Deputy Assistant Chief of Staff, G-5,
Supreme Headquarters, AEF in June
1945. He became Assistant Chief of
Staff, G-5, United States Forces, Euro-
pean Theater upon its activation on 14
July 1945.

General Adcock, whose permanent
home is now in Washington, D. C., was
born at Waltham, Mass, on 23 October
1895. He was graduated from the United
States Military Academy in 1918 and
appointed a second lieutenant in the
Corps of Engineers.

He was graduated from the Command
and General Staff School at Fort
Leavenworth in 1935 and from the Army
War College in 1939.

He served in the United Kingdom and
North Africa in 1942-43 as G-5 of the
Il Corps and was later appointed G-5 of
the Fifth Army in North Africa. He also
served as G-5 of AFHQ/NATOUSA in
North Africa and Italy in 1943-44. He

30

was promoted to Brigadier General in
1943. In August 1944, he was named
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-4, Sixth
Army Group.

General Adcock’s decorations include
the Distinguished Service Medal, the
Legion of Merit, Officer of the French
Legion of Honor, Croix de Guerre
(with palm) and Honorary Commander
of the British Empire.

TO LT. COLONEL
Maj Angus L. Campbell, G-5, USFET
Maj Alphonse F. Drankowski, G-5, USFET
Maj Eugene M. Lee, Det G-41

TO MAJOR
Capt Eugene H. Clay, G-5, USFET
Capt Harry Irwig, G-5, USFET
Capt James S. Hathcock, G-5, USFET
Capt Nicholas C. Leone, G-5, USFET
Capt Henry C. Rutz, G-5, USFET

TO CAPTAIN

Lt Chester C. Axvall, G-5, USFET
Lt Frank A. Decker, Jr., G-5, USFET
Lt William F. Hanstein, G-5, USFET
Lt Doris E. Hart, G-5, USFET

Lt Lewellyn A. Jennings, G-5, USFET
Ist Lt Robert W. Kimball, G-5, USFET
Ist Lt Kenneth L. Myers, G-5, USFET
lst Lt Eugene R. Schwabach, G-5, USFET
Ist Lt Marie J. Stone, G-5, USFET

lst Lt Thomas L. Power, G-5, USFET

TO FIRST LIEUTENANT

2nd Lt Herbert G. Dubois, G-5, USFET
2nd Lt George H. Elliott, G-5, USFET
2nd Lt George L. Holstein, G-5, USFET
2nd Lt Alfred L. Jackson, G-5, USFET

TO MASTER SERGEANT
TiSgt Frank C. Ingalls, G-5, Third Army

Ist
Ist
Ist
Ist
Ist

--- Page 34 ---
TO TECHNICAL SERGEANT

SiSgt Edwin C. Longfellow, G-5, Third
Army

TO STAFF SERGEANT
Sgt Cornell W. Acheson, G-5, Third Army
Sgt James C. Sanders, G-5, Third Army
Sgt Clifford A. White, G-5, Third Army

TO TECHNICIAN FOURTH GRADE

Cpl Raymond C. Fritz, G-5, Third Army
Cpl Franklin E. Richardson, G-5, Third
Army

Returned TO THE Grares

Col Leon Dostert, G-5, USFET
Col Charles E. Keegan, G-5, Third Army

Lt Col Robert H. Douglass, G-5, 3rd
Army

Lt Col Sam.H. Long, G-5, 7th Army
Maj Gilbert B. Baird, G-5, 3rd Army
Maj Clifford M. Carter, G-5, 3rd Army
Maj Elmer R. Daniel, G-5, 3rd Army
Maj Daniel H. Kiber, G-5, 3rd Army
Maj Louis A. Nolfo, G-5, 3rd Army
Maj Samuel S. Gray Jr., G-5, 7th Army
Maj Louis H. Cotton, G-5, 7th Army
Maj William L. Batt, Jr., G-5, 7th Army
Capt Emory T. Lehan, G-5, 3rd Army
Capt Victor D. Waloga, G-5, 3rd Army
Capt. Arthur R. Monson, G-5, 7th Army
Capt Max N. Schoenberg, G-5, 7th Army
Capt. Basil D. Sartin, G-5, 7th Army
Capt Marc J. Robinson, G-5, 7th Army
Ist Lt Ralph D. Stacy, G-5, 3rd Army
MiSgt Rodger Huemme, G-5, 3rd Army
T/Sgt Irving Rostholder, G-5, 3rd Army
S/Sgt Melvin Davis, G-5, 3rd Army
M/Sgt Frank Ingles, G-5, 7th Army
T/Sgt Irving R. Lewis, G-5, 7th Army

31

Sgt Frank R. Charles, G-5, 7th Army:
Sgt Shuford M. S. Hazel, G-5, 7th Army
Sgt Leonard C. Hoffmann, G-5, 7th Army
T/5 Edward P. Joyce, G-5, 7th Army
T/5 Walter E. Naff, G-5, 7th Army
TI5 Donald B. Weir, G-5, 7th Army
Pfc Judson C: Devine, G-5, 7th Army

OVER 2,300 ELIGIBLE FOR OCTOBER
DISCHARGE FROM 2nd REGIMENT

OVER 2,300 officers and enlisted men
of the Second Military Government
Regiment will be eligible for discharge
during the month of October, when the
critical discharge score drops to 70
points, stated a report based on ASR
break-down figures printed recently in
”The Governor”, official Regimental
newspaper. The figures, it was pointed
out, exclude all men who have thus far
been released.

Although approximately 2,300 officers
and men will be eligible for discharge,
the newspaper stated that no quota for
October had, as yet, been officially
ordered. The September quota of the
Regiment called for 600 enlisted men
and 140 officers to be processed and
shipped out to reinforcement depots by
mid-October.

In July, August and September, the
Regiment released approximately 177
enlisted men and 53 officers under
ECAD quotas, the paper reported.

BRONZE STAR MEDAL

Col Charles E. Keegan, G-5, Third Army
T/3 Betty Mossler, G-5, USFET

--- Page 35 ---
