--- Page 2 ---
No. 18 — 24 NOVEMBER 1945

Military Government

Weekly
Information Bulletin

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
WESTERN MILITARY DISTRICT
GREAT HESSE, NORTH WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

23 OCTOBER 1945

Qwour
waLoecK { neni

cece
BRITISH ZONE fy pies
Aap ey idee
Meret 5 hana reas oN

Vans ven oN
nes is Hain ( HERSFELO
7 RUSSIAN

Are ZONE
Ww
ta

OHRINGENIN GRAIL-
nd Lseem
aA Naa 2

is
wee Rc Tks & BG
, ea ea cates | AALEN
. EONBE!
LEGEND & waieLincen wn
sr LGarty
RED REGIERUNGSBEZIRKE ANO % ee ee
LANDESBEZIRK BADEN ( GoeLincen ena ee
BLACK

MEIER
a
LANOKREISE AND STAOTKREISE a mh.

J ZONE

. MILES
SOURCE OMG-RG! BRANCH

3040

TATISTIGS SECTION
GEN STAFF USFET

--- Page 4 ---
No. 18 — 24 NOVEMBER 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U.S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
CONTENTS
PAGE

Military Government Letters and Instructions Issued This Week 4

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY. ........5
Military Government Reorganization. . . . . . . 5
Denazification — Unfinished Business. . . . .-. . 16
Affiliated Nazi Organizations . . . . . .. . . 16

GENERAL ............... . 20
Guide for Clarifying Nationality of DPs. . . . . . 20
Beer Production Resumes. . . . . ...... 21!
Non-Germans Allowed to Leave Country . . . . 21
Cut Wood Left Lying in Woods. . . . . . . . 22
Liaison Set Up for Coal Shipments. . . . . . . 22
Field Reports Continue... . - oe. es 22
M.G.'s Civilian Help Total Held as Low. . . . . 22

GERMAN REACTIONS. ......... . 23
Freedom of The Press. . . . . ..... . . 23
The Rumor Mill 2. 2... 2... 2b

VOICES OF EXPERIENCE .........27

PRESS COMMENTS........... . 28
Starvation and Policy in News Spotlight .°. . . . 28
Occupation Critics ©. 2. 2... . . 29
German Industry . . . ......... =. 30
Soviet Censorship . . 2. 2. 2... 30

PERSONNEL DATA ............2331
Qualifications for Civilian Jobs. . 2 2... 1.
Promotions. . . 2. 1... 1 ee ee ee ee BI

--- Page 7 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT LETTERS AND
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED DURING THE WEEK

Amendment No. 2 to SHAEF, Military Gov-
ernment Technical Manual for Labor Officers —
Covering Wages, Hours and Labor .

Amendment (Functional Channels for Military
Government) to Directive, “Organization of
Military Government”, dated 26 September 1945

Amendment (Documentation of Non-German
Nationals Leaving Germany for Repatriation)
to Letter (5 November 1945) AG 322.01, GEC-
AGO, “Identification and Documentation of
Foreigners in Germany", and Supreme Head-
quarters A. E. F. Administration Memorandum
No. 47 (Revised 6 April 1945) .

Review of Cases of Detention by Security

Review Boards . 2... 1 1 1 ew ee ee

Determination and Reporting of Nationalities . .

1 November 1945 (file
GEC/Econ - 461 [TM])

10 November 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

15 November 1945 (file
GE-383.7-4 [General])

15 November 1945 (file
AG 013.3 GEC-AGO)

16 November 1945 (file
GEC 383.7 [General])

--- Page 8 ---
The October 5th Directive on the
Reorganization of Military Government
caused, initially, a wave of apprehen-
sion both among Military Government
detachments and German officials. The
general reaction was that the sweeping
withdrawal of Military Government
functional responsibility for admini-
stration at lower levels would be pre-
mature.

More careful analysis has largely
dissipated this apprehension. In this
issue, The BULLETIN publishes re-

actions from three types of detach-

ments: ~A’ Landkreis in Oberbayern,
the Stadtkreis Munich, and a Stadt-
kreis-Landkreis detachment in Ober-
and Mittelfranken. These illustrate
clearly that, at those levels, Military
Government is prepared to relinquish

functional control, and in-many cases — .

has already successfully done so.

“Withdrawal” is a misleading word.
Many” detachments have interpreted
“reorganization” in terms of “with-

drawal.” The. purpose :of. the reargani-. .
zation .of Military. Government is. not...

to withdraw — far from it. Occupation
continues in force, and it is. the in+
tention ..of the Occupation Authority

German life for.some time to. come.
The ‘intention... of .the. -plan:for. re:
organizing. : Military...Government *i
rather.. to shift. the

Hightights of Policy

; Military Government

— Reorganizes

Reactions from three types of detach-
ments illustrate that M. G. either.al-
ready hasor is prepared to relinquish
functional controlin accordance with
the October 5th Directive.

burden ‘for: the
responsibility . for administration: of...::
government to. the German: authori-. .:
ties, who must.be forced. to face their: ~

own people, not as pawns of an alien
nation, but as responsible officials.

The trends of initial reaction by both
Military Government in the field and
the German officials, who had relied
on Allied sauthority for support, are

worthy.. of.. note.’ Military:: Government -

personnel . initially .viewed . the -pro-

jected ‘reorganization with alarm. for .

many “reasons, most ..of.: them. .under-
standable, even if not admissible. ‘This
is due in the main to. the fact that
field personnel. feel like .people~ who
have. succeeded «in. bringing a. sem-

blance .of life and competence..to an :.

almost: ‘completely. disrupted. being, and

drawal: of the oxygen tent: will be
hazardous -for the victim. Further. re-
flection and experiment: has shown that
both the. oxygen’ tent operator -and the

~ patient would ‘progress :more.. rapidly
* if the latter were made to rely on his
ae ~’ own resources, °° we _

carefully ‘to: keep in: touch: with the ...: a ret

The German. officials. reacted. ‘pather:. Ls

differently from.Military:..Government.
An element, for. example, -.has: wished

.. to be carried along: by Military. Govern-:

ment ‘operations, ‘because .it. could pin
the blame: for: the desperate. conditions

following ‘the. war. on- the: Occupation.

= quite ‘naturally, they fear that. the:with-. «-

--- Page 9 ---
Authority. Announcement of the Di-
rective brought sudden and salutary
signs of vigor from the weaker of
these.

Many officials appointed by Mili-
tary Government have made enemies
in the course of implementing Allied
directives. Without the support of
Military Government, they have feared
that they could not survive. Provision
is made in the Directive for retention
of a sufficient element of Military
Government at all levels where Mili-
tary Government is now operating in

anticipation of just such a contingency.

It must be emphasized that these
articles do not necessarily reflect the
actual method by which the Reorgani-
zation of Military Government is to
be carried out. They are not to be
interpreted as expressions of established
policy. The Regional detachments have
just submitted to USFET plans for
the implementation of the Directive;
these plans, as finally worked out,
will be the key to the reorganization
and will be analyzed in detail in a
later issue of this publication.

Delay Won’t Help

Detachments G-232 took over two
Bavarian Kreise early in May. In only
one of these had there been any for-
mal Military Government control be-
fore our arrival; in the other, Military
Government had been represented by
the CPs of seven. different tactical
units, one of which had posted Mili-
tary Government laws and ordinances.
It is a proof, incidentally, of the extra-
ordinarily effective and practical con-
ception of. these laws and ordinances
that the situation did not become hope-
lessly entangled in spite of the con-
flicting orders issued by successive
units, whose primary interest might
best be defined as “procurement”.

NOT BEER AND SKITTLES

This observation is not meant to
imply that all was: clear sailing in the
early days of this detachment’s oper-
ation. While the directives from
higher headquarters were clear enough
to guide any fairly, intelligent Military
Government Officer towards setting
up an acceptable civisian administration

The Directive was needed to force
many Military Government officers
to relinquish functional control says
a Military Government officer of long
field experience, now in Detachment
G-232, LK Miesbach.

and making it responsible for govern-
ment, there were many reasons why
this, the first mission of Military
Government, could not be accomplish-
ed initially.

The first reason is that at that time
each Kreis was a cross-road for shift-
ing tactical units. Each new unit
arriving gave new orders, many of
these contradictory. The local Land-
rate and Biirgermeister came and went
according to the prejudices of the
tactical commanders, and they could
not and would not take responsibility,
having. no set policy to follow. The
personnel of this detachment were so
reduced that from the outset we were
forced to try to place responsibility on

--- Page 10 ---
local officials. In our particular case,
we had no real conflict with any of
the tactical commanders, but this was
accomplished at the expense of devot-
ing 75 per cent of our time and effort
to finding new billets and office space,
recreational equipment and “Schnapps”
for each new unit; and it was practi-
cally impossible, initially, to persuade
tactical commanders to deal through
us rather than directly with local of-
ficials. Every new unit brought chang-
es, if not in the over-all policy, at
least in its immediate application. We
were, for instance, required entirely
to change regulations governing reg-
istration and passes four times in
three weeks, according to the wishes
of tactical commanders. Each time it
meant that people authorized to cir-
culate by a previous system went to
jail (the Landrat went twice!), and
that all essential people had to be
re-issued passes and papers. It was
quite impossible to install any feeling
of confidence and responsibility in
officials under this system.

The second reason why this Detach-
ment had difficulty ipitially in estab-
lishing: a sufficiently strong and ac-
ceptable civil government was that
during the early phases CIC teams
were so concentrated on regular CIC
targets that they were not able to
assist ‘in “vetting” officials Further-
more, the master black list was not
received at this level until October.
This meant that denazification could
be accomplished only on the basis of
Fragebogen submitted. (Many officials
who remained clear on the Frage-
bogen had to be removed because of
information obtained later from CIC
or black lists.) In the beginning, too,
Military Government officers were
forced to depend more on the know-
ledge and experience of local officials
than at a later date when they had
learned the intricacies of German ad-
ministration and the details peculiar

to their area. All of these factors com-
bined to keep men, eventually inac-
ceptable, in office. The bulk of de-
nazification has thus been accomplish-
ed in the last two months.

PROBLEMS IN REORGANIZATION

Probably the chief reason why Mili-
tary Government at the Kreis level
felt apprehensive when the October
5th Directive was first published was
that the emphasis on transferring re-
sponsibility for functional activities
was announced just at the same time
that denazification was making its
heaviest inroads into German personnel
who had previously been considered
politically acceptable.

It has not been easy for the Ger-
mans to take over. The present Land-
rat is a willing man; but because he
is an anti-nazi, he has been a long
time away from public administration.
He has been handed a tremendous job
and must accomplish it with new and
often inefficient personnel. The volume
of reports required from this detach-
ment by higher headquarters is noth-
ing in comparison with that required
from the Landrat by his higher offi-
cials. One of the chief difficulties in
finding suitable personnel in the area
is due to the fact that from the lowest
to the highest level every Bavarian is
opposed to seeing anyone not Bavarian-
born in any kind of a job. They de-
finitely prefer an inefficient or nazified
Bavarian to a competent and po-
litically clean Saxon or Rhinelander.

It is difficult, too, to persuade the
population to go to, or through, the
civil administration. The volume of
work is such in the Landrat’s office
that the ordinary citizen can get to see
an officer of a Military Government
detachment more easily than a Kreis
official. Again, these officials who
adhere to our policies are blamed by

--- Page 11 ---
the population for the measures we |

take which do not’ meet with. their
approval. Officials know this amd tend
to accomplish their jobs insofar as
they feel themselves backed by’ Mili-
tary Government and are aware of

active supervision. They do not feel”

strongly supported by the population.
One Landrat’is convinced~ that elec-
tions would remove 95 per cent of
the public officials installed - under
Military Government. It seems certain

that if Bavarians have the vote they .

will remove every non-Bavarian in the
Eastern Military District.

Faced with these facts, the first”

-reaction to the October 5th directive
is that it came too early. The typical
conservative Catholic Bavarian says
that either the old powers of nazism,
insufficiently -repressed, will . gain
power again, or that Communism will
dominate: ‘The typical Military Govern-
ment officer, aware of his present re-
sponsibility, believes that he has
worked for nothing, that now, on the
edge of order, the situation will fall
into pure chaos. without him.

RESPONSIBILITY SHIFTED

This is not true. In the majority
of cases, detachments still carry too
much direct responsibility and exec-
utive’ power, and the local: officials
depend on this. Time alone would not
improve this situation. The directive
has. brought-home. to. Military: Govern-
ment personnel and..civilian officials
that ‘the essential aim of American
Occupation is not to keep military
personnel in-government positions for
a generation but to set up a frame-
work of Germans, who under super-
vision may work out their destiny.
The usual Military. Government of-
ficer’s paternal attitude to his Kreis
and Kreis officials is not far:removed
from a benevolent: authoritarianism.

If one or two officers are to be left

“By 15. December 1945, Landkreis,
Stadtkreis, and Regierungsbezirk
Military . Government: detachments
will insure that German civil govern-
ment ‘communication channels are
operating and all functional control,
as distinguished from policy control,
of civil government will be handled
through normal German civil chan-
nels.” Para. 2c of the Directive.

in place as a token authority and a
symbol of supervision, they will be
compelled by the force of circumstance
to be that only, and local officials will,
by the same token, have to assume
real responsibility.

In. this Landkreis, two officers can
suffice to carry through. In the last
month, .this Detachment concentrated
on the organization of a civilian staff
within its own office — personnel train-
ed. in each department of Military
Government by the officers heading
those branches, who can assist in
compiling reports and act as_ re-
sponsible liaison with local officials.
This staff tends to be non-political, and
its only authority is in the Military
Government officer for whom it works.
It forms a good instrument for trans-
mission of authority and should prove
an enormous help in the accomplish-
ment of daily details.

After the receipt of the directive, an
experiment was made. For one: week
no civilian other than Kreis or Ge-
meinde- officials were admitted to see
any officer of this Detachment. It was
an incredible relief to Detachment per-
sonnel and proved that, forced to it,
the population would go through cor-
rect civilian channels.

What. remains of Military Govern-
ment at this level will be confront-
ed with two major problems: Pro-
perty control and liaison between tac-
tical ‘troops. and the Germans. The

--- Page 12 ---
“The Military Government Liaison
and Security Officers will normally
consist of two officers plus necessary
administrative personnel, per Land-
kreis and/or Stadtkreis, and else-
where as needed .. .“ para 2e of the
Directive.

number of accounts blocked, and pro-
perties taken into control, is stagger-
ing, and the necessity remains for
continous clarification of Military Gov-
ernment directives for the benefit of
tactical troops. Some special arran-
gements can probably be devised to
meet these problems within the limits,
flexible as they are, of the October
5th directive.

The Military Government officer at
Kreis level is concerned with a com-
prehensive unit of Germany and is in
daily contact with representatives of
every class, profession, and type of the
small element for which he is respon-
sible to his superiors. He may now
believe he is not being allowed to com-
plete his part in a job so magnificently
begun by the tactical units. Whether
he is justified or not in his point of
view remains to be seen. All of Mili-
tary Government is new — “as new
as radar”, to quote General Eisen-
hower — and as we who have gone
along with it from the days in North
Africa, Sicily, Italy, Shrivenham, and
Northwest Europe know well, we only
discover our weapons in this new kind
of war as we fight it.

Change Viewed With Optimism

by Major David R. Blossom, F. A.
Detachment F-2138

No difficulty is anticipated in con-
nection with the change from partici-
pation to control, as such a change was
made by this detachment months ago.

In this detachment, functional offi-
cers do not participate directly in local
government, nor do they ordinarily
exercise functional control in the sense
of prescribing the methods to be used
in accomplishing results. These func-
tional officers as a rule exercise gener-
al policy control only, which, briefly,
consists of: Correcting any tendency
on the part of civilian officials to
evade denazification instructions, dis-
criminate against Allied Nations’ na-
tionals or otherwise obstruct any po-
licy or order of Military Government;
and acting as intermediary between
U. S. Army personnel and _ civilian
authorities, as required by directives.

A Stadtkreis Detachment foresees no
difficulties in implementing the Reor-
ganization Directive.

No difficulty is anticipated in con-
nection with complying with the reor-
ganization order as to retaining only
such officers whose duties are not
paralleled in the German government,
provided it is recognized that this
would involve the continuation of
about 90 per cent of the activities of
this detachment.

One reason why it is believed neces-
sary to continue 90 per cent of these
activities is that the reorganization
order contemplates continuance of gen-
eral policy control (i. e. correcting
tendencies to evade Military Govern-
ment policies and acting as inter-

--- Page 13 ---
Only officers who are performing
duties peculiar to Military Govern-
ment and whose duties are not paral-
leled in the German government will
be retained.“ Para 2a of the Direc-
tive.

mediary). No officer now exercising
general policy control (which has been
the chief function of this detachment
for some time now) can be considered
one whose duties are completely paral-
leled in the German government. Not
every official in the German govern-
ment is anxious to correct tendencies
to evade Military Government policies,
and none of them is capable of serv-
ing as intermediaries.

TURNOVER ALMOST COMPLETE

The Germans already have taken over
the work. This was accomplished by
the Director advising the Oberbiirger-
meister that the latter would assume
responsibility for governing the city,
with functional officers exercising gen-
eral policy control and serving as
intermediaries between U. S. troops
and civilian officials. For example, they
have assumed the following duties
under general policy supervision of the
respective functional officers of this
office:

Civil Administration All duties.

Public Safety — All police and fire
duties except those reserved to the
Provost Marshal.
Legal and Prisons — All duties except
military court prosecutions.
Finance and Property Control — All
duties except matters which by
directive require personal handling
by property control officer.

Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives
— All duties except property con-
trol functions with respect to
looted or Allied Nations’ pro-
perty.

Public Health — All duties.

10

Displaced Persons — All duties ex-
cept those reserved by U. S. Army
or UNRRA.

Public Welfare — All duties.

Economics — All duties except those
reserved by U. S. Army Produc-
tion Control authorities.

Public Utilities and Public Works —
All duties except those reserved
by U. S. Army Engineers.

Transportation — All duties.

Communications — All duties.

Education and Religion — All duties.

Public Relations — All duties except
those reserved by the District In-
formation Service Control Com-
mand.

WORK NOT PARALLELED

Functions not paralleled in the Ger-
man government are Military Courts,
Fragebogen processing and Property
Control. Military Courts of this De-
tachment hear from 500 to 800 cases
a week. While this number can rea-
sonably be expected to be reduced
about 75 per cent (if 16,000 displaced
persons now in Munich are removed,
and if the minor public safety offen-
ses are entirely handled by German
courts, as has been for some time
authorized), a time when these courts
will not be required cannot be forseen
now. Fragebogen processing requires
the time of about a dozen officers and
men. The end of this requirement can-
not now be seen, as there will be
returning prisoners of war, returning
evacuees, etc., seeking governmental
and other important positions for years
to come. Property control would seem
to require the attention of at least
one officer indefinitely.

As this is the largest city in the
Zone, containing the Regional capital
and Military District Headquarters, it
requires more personnel for this office
than any other Stadtkreis. To which
detachment this personnel is assigned
is largely immaterial.

--- Page 14 ---
“Within 30 days after the completion
of the last election in its area (not
later than ...30 June 1946 in Stadt-
kreis) each... Stadtkreis ... detach-
ment [will be withdrawn].“ para. 2e
of the Directive.

With the withdrawal of the Land-
kreis detachments, it is anticipated
that many persons, who formerly went
to other local detachments, will come
to this detachment for information.
This will impose and additional daily
burden of interviewing numerous per-
sons who have no other Military Gov-
ernment detachment to go to for mak-
ing denunciations, securing help in
connection with marriages of United
Nations’ nationals, complaining of dis-
criminations, etc.

Lest it be concluded that no officer
is needed as an intermediary and that
occupation troops can always success-
fully deal directly with civilians, some
typical instances of such direct deal-
ings are cited:

(1) French liaison officer gives di-
rect orders to a German civilian jailer

to release a prisoner arrested by U.
S. military police.

(2) Military personnel seize building
materials duly allocated for the pre-
servation of a church classified by
higher authority as an artistic and
historic monument.

Such misunderstandings can be
quickly adjusted if the civilian offi-
cial is able to reach a local Military
Government officer quickly. For thus
civilian officials may settle their
problems with those who know the
Zone Commander’s desire to streng-
then the German self-government and
to prevent interference directly with
its operation.

When it appeared in the press that
Military Government personnel at low-
er levels would be withdrawn, civil-
ian officials were greatly concerned
and considered the withdrawal prema-
ture. Civilian employees of Military
Government feared they would lose
their positions on November 5th. This
Detachment has tried to correct the
erroneous impression among the civi-
lians that a precipitate withdrawal is
imminent.

Why The Directive Will Work

by 2nd Lt. Ernest A. Giroux, AUS
Detachment G-227, SK-LK Hof

The Directive on the Reorganization
of Military Government is needed in
Stadt and Landkreis Hof. The first
steps under the projected new system
may be faltering, but in the long run
a considerable improvement in carrying
out the mission of Military Govern-
ment will result. To understand why
it is needed, it might be well to exam-
ine the area and the people with
whom Military Government Detach-

1

Ina concise analysis of background
and problems, Stadt and Landkreis
Hof are revealed as typical political
divisions in the U. S. Zone.

ment G-227 has had to deal for the
past several months.

Hof is situated in
the northeastern corner of Bavaria, bord-

--- Page 15 ---
ering the Russian Zone of Occupa-
tion and the Czechoslovak frontier.
The city of Hof, which lies roughly
in the center of the Landkreis, was
before the occupation an important
stop on the direct Berlin-Munich rail-
road. It is strictly a manufacturing
city, its predominant industry compris-
ing cotton and flax spinning and weav-
ing mills (450,000 spindles, 4,000
looms). The present population of the
city, which was 45,000 before the war,
has been estimated at anywhere from
70,000 to 100,000. This great increase
is the result of the vast influx of
refugees who have poured in from all
over the U. S. Zone, and, finding the
Russian border closed for long periods,
have stayed here. At present a refu-
gee is given a food card valid for three
days and then must move on. Fortu-
nately, the Russian border was reopen-
ed towards the end of October, after
being closed for months, and the pres-
sure is expected to be eased partially.

The city was burned to the ground
in the 1830s and rebuilt during a per-
iod of architectural bastardy. Not by
any stretch of the imagination could
it be called attractive. The fact that
none of the buildings have been repaint-
ed during the war accentuates its drab
appearance. There has been slight
bomb damage in Hof, mostly concen-
trated around the railway station. Ne-
cessary repairs have been under way
for some time.

The Country . The Landkreis,
which consists of 40 communities,
is in direct contrast to the city. It is
entirely agricultural, with rolling hills,
small farms, and well cared-for for-
ests. The population has increased
from 22,000 to 35,000, but the in-
crease is more easily absorbed in the
small villages than in the city, parti-
culary from the standpoint of food
supply. There are only two towns of

12

any size in the Landkreis, Schwarzen-
bach (5,700) and Oberkotzau (4,600),
neither of them remarkable in any way.
It might be mentioned, however, that
an important cotton printing firm, now
closed, is located in Oberkotzau. Bea-
utiful hand work in linens is done
by the women of the little villages
and the finished products sold through
the firms in the city. There are some
porcelain factories in the area, but
they are not as famous as the firm
of Selb, located in a neighboring Kreis.
The country people are typical Bava-
rian farmers, hard-working and hard-
headed, little interested in politics,
They believe in Bavaria for the Bava-
rians and are annoyed by refugees
and all other foreigners. For them, the
war itself was a particular annoyance
and intrusion.

The problems of Hof reflect Military
Government ’s headaches throughout
the Zone.

Displaced Persons ... In Hof, dis-
placed persons are quartered in a
Wehrmacht Kaserne, a permanent post
of the German army which consists of
a number of stucco buildings, well con-
structed and insulated, having ade-
quate sanitary, recreational, education-
al and hospital facilities. The displac-
ed persons population has fluctuated
between 2,000 and 2,700 for the past
few months. Shortly after V-E Day,
some 5,000 persons were temporarily
housed in these quarters. The local
tactical unit took the initiative in set-
ting up a co-ordinated program for
re-habilitating the displaced persons,
which was carried out in conjunction
with UNRRA, Military Government,
and the local civil authorities. A full
supply of wood, adequate for the win-
ter, was hauled to the Kaserne

grounds, broken windows were re-

--- Page 16 ---
placed, and considerable painting was
done. A general clean-up was also
completed.

Wood-cutting... The wood-cutting
and hauling program for the city of
Hof is now about 50 per cent complete,
with many factors causing delay in
completing it. During the latter part
of June, local civil authorities were
warned that coal for civilian use would
not be available this winter; but the
warning failed to result in any action
on the part of the Germans. Coal was
available in a number of districts less
than 100 miles distant, and the fact
that coal could not be brought to Hof
was not believed. Members of the
clergy were advised to warn their
parishioners of the true situation and
to urge them to take steps to save
themselves.

It was not until late summer that
the civil authorities were under way
in an organized effort to bring
in wood. Sufficient labor was
available, but transport was lacking.
Twenty-five trucks were brought in
from Ansbach by Military Government,
but the civil authorities were unable
to provide the necessary fuel. On Third
Army orders, tactical troops made
gasoline available. Axes and saws were
also lacking, and there was much de-
lay in obtaining release of equipment,
former Wehrmacht property, which
was stored only a few miles from the
city. On October 22nd, the equipment
was finally released, and the program
has speeded up since that date.

“SIBERIA OF BAVARIA”

Winter... The people of Hof are
facing a difficult winter. Winter in
this area (called the “Siberia of Ba-
varia”) is always long and severe. Des-
pite the results of the wood-cutting

13

program, there will be little space
heating. The food supply currently
available is insufficient to provide |
strong bodily resistance against cold
and disease. The best that Military
Government and the local food officials
hope for, and are striving to ac-
complish, is.that there will continue to
be enough food to sustain life. Ration-
ing controls are strict, and a constant
vigil against the black market is main-
tained. The churches are making every
effort through relief campaigns to im-
plement aid to the thousands of ref-
ugees in the city, who are of ne-
cessity living in overcrowded, dis-
agreeable conditions. Grim as is the
prospect for the winter, it is recog-
nized that conditions in Hof are better
than in other areas. Most of the basic
necessities for life are available.

Typical of the whole Zone are Hof ‘s
politically listless people and their
inexperienced and denazified adminj-
Stration.

Political lisstlessness . A factor
worthy of consideration is the psy-
chological condition of the people.
There has never been a sign of or-
ganized resistance to the occupation
in this area, and negligible evidence of
individual resistance or desire for
revenge. Most people are too con-
cerned in their own struggle for phy-
sical and economic survival to think
about the broad aspects of defeat and
humiliation. Too, those who are sin-
cere and intelligent are undergoing a
severe period of spiritual transition.
A rigid structure of twelve years’
standing has collapsed, and many il-
lusions have fallen with it. Some have
found the solution to their problems
in suicide, and others have continued
to attempt to fill the void of doubt
and confusion,

--- Page 17 ---
Denazification has resulted in a
highly inefficient administrative struc-
ture in Hof. The Landrat has proved
to be a poor public official. He spent
twelve years in Dachau, and now is
much more interested in rich living
than he is in Landkreis affairs. The
Landratsamt has been swept clean,
and the politically pure employees who
are left are very inexperienced and in-
effectual. The Biingermeister of prac-
tically all the 40 towns in the Land-
kreis have been replaced. It is very
difficult to find a good replacement
for Biirgermeister in a rual community,
or even to find a man who wants the
position. The Oberbiirgermeister of
Hof is intelligent but a weak admini-
strator and is propped up considerably
by his adjutant, a young man recently
released from an internment camp in
Canada. The Birgermeister for the
Stadt is aggressive and honest, but not
particularly well educated or polish-
ed, an important factor in Germany.
The members of the Stadtrat, which is
composed of two Communists, two
Social Democrats, two Bayerische
Volkspartei men and two Democrats,
have had little municipal experience
and are just beginning to operate
smoothly as a group.

Unfortunately, no other candidates
of proved anti-nazi background have
appeared, in spite of a diligent search
for men who are both politically clean
and able. administrators.

The fact that the Church does not
play an important part in Hof ‘s poli-
tics makes it more typical of the west-
ern part of the U. S. Zone.

Hof is Lutheran, and the Catholic
party has not played an important part
in the political life of the area. Before
the advent of the NSDAP, the Social

14

Democratic Party held the upper, hand
and there are many who believe that
it would again, should a free election
be held at this time.

It is the Communist Party, however,
better known in the city as the Anti-
Fascist League, which has employed
the most aggressive tactics in the city.
Some believe that many former nazis
are seeking refuge in the Party, hoping
to ride back into power under a dif-
ferent banner. It must be remembered
that the denazification program is
loosely uniting a large group of able
men in a common cause, and they
may, in the course of time, make po-
litical capital out of the very fact that
they were removed from office by
Military Government.

It must also not be forgotten that
officials appointed by Military Gov-
ernment, who are by and large well-
meaning and hard-working but not ex-
perienced public officials, may in time
be blamed by the German people for
the bad conditions of the post-war
period, just as the democratic govern-
ment of Germany bore a certain guilt
in the eyes of the German people for
the signing of the Versailles Treaty
after World War I.

RELEASE OF FUNCTIONAL CONTROL

During October each officer of this
detachment has been gradually trans-
ferring as much work and _ responsi-
bility as possible to the German offi-
cials whom he supervises. More and
more reports are being made through
civilian channels, thus relieving Mili-
tary Government to a certain extent
of the almost overwhelming job of sub-
mitting accurately the flood of reports
required, The task of Military Govern-
ment, in the true sense of the term,
has seemed often to be an almost in-
surmountable problem.

The city of Hof would not be in a
strong administrative position if Mili-

--- Page 18 ---
tary Government should pull out com-
pletely and suddenly. This is not the
intention of the Directive. The only
way that this detachment can see of
encouraging the inexperienced and rel-
atively unaggressive administration for
both the Stadt and the Landkreis is
to retire from all functional respon-
sibility.

It must be made clear to the civ-
ilian officials that the only func-
tions of Military Government are to
watch the local situation, serve as li-
aison between the Germans and
tactical units, and ensure that Military
Government laws are being obeyed.

The emergency measures which re-
quire functional operations in the Ger-
man government at Landkreis level
during the summer and fall have deve-
loped sufficiently for the Germans to
assume full responsibility for their
operation. No more than a symbol of
the authority of the Military Governor
of the U.S. Zone is required to be
present in the Kreis, and it must be
supervisory only in the eyes of the
officials. It must not detract from the
authority of the officials in the eyes
of the people at large by appearing
to have any functional responsibility
for government.

Brevities

Authority to arm regularly organized
displaced persons police at assembly
centers, when deemed advisable by
commanders of occupational forces,
was granted in a recent USFET cable.
It was stipulated that such arms will
be subject.to the same conditions and
limitations as to numbers and rounds
of ammunition as apply to German
police.

Authority for the reopening of
schools, other than universities and

15

institutions of equivalent rank, may be
delegated to the Education and Re-
ligious Affairs Office of Military
Government detachments at Land level,
according to a recent USFET an-
nouncement.

The meeting of Military Government
public welfare officers, scheduled for
USFET Headquarters November 30th
and December ist, has been postponed
until Friday and Saturday, -December
7th and 8th.

--- Page 19 ---
Aftiliated
Nazi Organizations

Beginning with this issue, a se-
ries of summaries on the af-

filiated organizations of the
NSDAP will appear in The
BULLETIN. These articles are

intended to clarify the relation-
ship between the affiliated or-
ganizations and the NSDAP, and
will discuss the relative impor-
tance of the various organizations
and their officials in relation to
the nazi movement and program.
The information contained in this
article and those to follow should
be of assistance to Special Branch
and other Military Government
officers in determining the status
of those Germans who were
members or officials of such af-
filiated organizations.

The NSV

(NationalsozialistischeVolkswohlfahrt)

By a decree of May 8rd 1935 the
NSV, an affiliated organization of
the NSDAP, was designated as
the only welfare organization
authorized for the Reich. Its of-
fices were established at all le-
vels of government, from Reich
to Kreis, and consisted of five
main sections: Organization; Re-
cruiting and Training; Finance
Administration; Welfare and
Youth Aid; and Public Health.
At the Ort level the NSV office
did not maintain a public health
section, while at the Zelle and
Block levels all NSV functions
were embodied in the NSV Zel-
lenwalter and NSV Blockwalter
respectively,

16

Distribution of Special Branch

Special Branch Findings Tot
Non-employment Mandatory ........... 141,
Employment Discretionary :

Adverse Recommendation ......... 48
Employment Discretionary :

Kio Adverse Recommendation. ....... 134,
No Evidence of Nazi Activity. ...... Sooo 314,
Evidence of Anti-Nazi Activity ........., 4,
Totals 2... . eee eee 643,

An examination of these tables reveals the outstanding pr
the U.S. Zone. More than 900,000 Fragebogen have been su
cent of the estimated civil population in the U.S. Zone. Of this

It_is equally evident, however, that the thorough denazificati
the 277,000 Fragebogen that still remained to be processed on Ni
done. If not a single additional Fraigebogen was received by a
approximately six weeks to.complete. Yet during the four-week
every week by Military Government in the U.S. Zone, and th
were still pouring in. Although Special Branches in both Great
bogen disposed of exceeded the number received the week of No}
same period exceeded the number processed by more than 1

The reports indicate that Special Branches are processing
returning them. In this connection Special Branches reported
officers who have not yet returned them with reports as to wh
75,000, more than 12,000 represent mandatory-removal cases ai

Military Government officers in some detachments have no
U.S. directives. An examination of the denazification reports tem
dangerous assumption on the part of persons so misinformed,
responsibility for planning future operations of Military Gove
by a sincere but misplaced fear of a resultant decrease in efficiel
is mandatory. Such cases have decreased considerably, and cot
with U.S. policy and directives.

From the above tables it can be seen that the Special Bran
While the success of denazification rests upon him to a large
and assistance of the functional Military Government officers.!
required if the United States war aim of making certain that n
world is to be achieved.

Trend in Receipt and Disposition

Total U. S. Zone
Period (1945)
Re- |Disposed| Carried Re-
ceived of Forward | ceived
Week Ending Oct.13] 68,611 | 54,579 | 223,714] 33,762 f
Week Ending Oct. 20] 59,528 | 48,496 | 218,292] 34,815
Week Ending Oct. 27] 73,507 | 58,569 | 243,471] 37,165 [1
Week Ending Nov. 3 | 47,024 | 49,375 | 273,088"| 27,030
Week Ending Nov.10] 57,595 | 53,565 | 277,118] 36,850
Cumulative to Nov.10] 920,073 | 642,955 | 277,118 | 509,888
°fo of Total Received 100 70 30 100

“Revised.

--- Page 20 ---
Jnfinished Business

bs By Regions and Totals to Date

_—

Wiirttemberg and| Great Hessen
jone Bayern North Baden (Including Bremen)
mo 87,716  24°/o 26,572 — 19°/o 26,782 — 20°Jo
fo 26,027 Plo 13,035 9 /o 9,867 Pio
1°Jo 79,595 —_21°Jo 30,461 — 22°/o 24,842  19°/o
9° 0 176,837 —47°Jo 67,175 49° Jo 70,012 — 53°/o
fo 2,241 — 1°Jo 659 1% 1,234 1%

"Jo 372,416 100°/o | 137,902  100°/o 132,737  100°/o

ase in investigations connected with the denazification program in.
to Military Government, equivalent to slightly more than six per
b Special Branches have disposed iof and processed more than 640,000.

ted by U.S. policy and directives is far from finished. A study of
+ 10th calls attention to the enormous job that still remains to be
hment, the backlog remaining to be processed would still require
arting October 13th, an average of 61,000 Fragebogen was received
ending November 10th, revealed that an additional 57,000 Fragebogen
dd North Wirttemberg—Baden reported that the number of Frage-
10th, in Bavaria the number of Fragebogen received during the

eets faster than functional officers are taking action on them and:
an 75,000 action sheets outstanding in the hands of functional
: not the persons involved have been retained or removed. Of these
6,000 discretionary cases with adverse recommendations.

tely reported the rétention of nazis whose removal is required under
ow up such discrepancies. Such misleading reports serve to create a
larly those both here and in the United States who have the
Many of the officers guilty of such subterfuge have been motivated
tion attendant upon the removal of Germans whose non-employment
action has been and will continue to be taken to insure compliance

r is carrying a gigantic load in the Military Government program.
he cannot hope to accomplish this mission without the full support
mbined, energetic effort of all Military Government officers is
nd militarism will never again threaten the peace and safety of the

Agebogen by Regions and by Weeks

Wurtemberg Great Hessen

and North Baden (Including Bremen)
ed) Carried | Re- [Disposed] Carried | Re- en Carried
Forward] ceived of Forward | ceived | P of | Forw.
96,831 | 23,898 | 20,097 | 57,601 | 10,951} 10,502] 69,282
101,743 | 19,296 | 11,967 | 59,240 | 5,417] 12,777] 57,309
113,590] 16,469 | 16,341 | 55,802 | 19,873] 13,487] 74,079
126,619") 7,600 | 10,344 | 66,473*] 12,394] 13,913] 79,996"
137,572 | 9,080 | 11,323 | 64,230 | 11,665] 16,345) 75,316
137,572 | 202,132_| 137,902 | 64,230 | 208,053 | 132,737 | 75,316

100 68 32 100 64 36

17

RELATIONSHIP TO THE NSDAP

The various organizational lev-
els of the NSV were establish-
ed in exact conformity with those
of the NSDAP. Moreover, at
each level of government the head
of the NSDAP Officé of Public
Welfare ‘(das Hauptamt fiir Volks-
wohlfahrt), also held the corre-
sponding title and position in the
NSV. Thus the Reichsamtsleiter
of the party office also held the
title and office of Reichswalter
der NSV; the Gauamtsleiter, Gau-
walter der NSV; the Kreisamts-
leiter, Kreiswalter der NSV, while
the Ortsgruppenamtsleiter of the
NSDAP Office of Public Wel-
fare also served as Ortswalter
der NSV. At the levels of Zelle
and Block, however, no com-
parable party organization existed.

Each NSV leader at the va-
rious levels was not only re-
sponsible directly to the NSV
leader above him, but also was
subject to disciplinary action by
the NSDAP leader at his partic-
ular level (e. g. the NSV Kreis-
walter was subject to dis-
ciplinary action by the party
Kreisleiter, the NSV Zellenwalter
to the party Zellenleiter, etc.)
In addition by a decree of 29
March 1935, the NSV, as an
affiliated organization, was made
subject to the financial super-
vision of the NSDAP Treasurer.

THE NSV ZELLENWALTER
While all officers of the NSV,
from Reichswalter to Ortswalter
inclusive, were of necessity mem-
bers of the NSDAP, the criteria
for choosing a NSV Zellenwalter
were somewhat more elastic. Ac-
cording to the “Organization Book
(Continued Page 18)

--- Page 21 ---
of the NSDAP”, the NSV Zellenwalter
should be a member of the party.
However, in exceptional cases this was
not required providing that his "po-
litical reliability and personal trustwor-
thiness" had been established. In
the many cases in which the
NSV Zellenwalter was a party mem-
ber, he was eligible to (and usually
held) NCO rank in the NSDAP. Such
rank ranged from corporal (NSDAP
Hauptarbeitsleiter) to and including
Sergeant Major (NSDAP Hauptbereit-
schaftsleiter).

The NSV Zellenwalter, as an official
of the NSV, is in a mandatory removal
category.

THE NSV BLOCKWALTER

A recent cable directive of No-
vember 6th, 1945 interpreted that the po-
sition of NSV Blockwalter was not
to be considered as an official of the
NSV, and accordingly placed that po-
sition in a discretionary-removal cate-
gory.

Although the NSV Blockwalter was
considered the lowest ranking func-
tionary within the NSV, the pre-
requisites for his selection were the
same as those of the NSV Zellenwalter.
The NSV Blockwalter was to be, pre-
ferably, a member of the NSDAP, but
in any case he had to be politically
and personally reliable. If he were a
party member, he was eligible for (and
usually held) an equivalent rank in the
NSDAP, ranging from Lance Corporal
(NSDAP Arbeitsleiter) to Staff Ser-
geant (NSDAP Bereitschaftsleiter). In
the event that the NSV Blockwalter
held one of these ranks in the party,
he is in a mandatory-removal category

as an NCO in the NSDAP.

CONCLUSIONS
It can be seen that the NSV Zellen-
waltern and NSV Blockwaltern very
often were members of the NSDAP;
and that when they were they also

18

usually assumed corresponding rank
in the NSDAP. Moreover, even in
those cases where NSV Zellen and
Blockwaltern were non-party members,
their selection was still made on the
basis of “political reliability”. From
this fact and by the very nature of
their work, NSV Zellenwaltern and
NSV_ Blockwaltern were within the
orbit of the NSDAP jurisdiction and
influence, and should be judged ac-
cordingly by Special Branch Officers.

The RLB
(Reichsluftschutzbund)

ORGANIZATION

By a proclamation of Géring, the
RLB or Air-Raid Protection League
was founded in April 1933 to provide
an organization for the dissemination
of air-raid protection information and
civil defense training measures
throughout the Reich. The geographical
areas of the RLB were subdivided into
Gruppen, Bezirksgruppen, Ortsgrup-
pen, Gemeinde, Blocks and Hauser,
with the corresponding chief officials
entitled Gruppenfiihrer, Bezirksgrup-
penfihrer, Ortsgruppenfiihrer, Ge-
meindegruppenfihrer, Blockwart and
Hauswart respectively. With the ex-
ception of the Gruppen areas where
the organization of the RLB was pat-
terned after that of the party, all other
area units of the RLB corresponded
to some unit of the State adminis-
tration. In this connection, the po-
lice districts existing in the largen
communities were generally utilized.

NAZI ASPECTS OF THE RLB

A directive issued by the RLB Head-
quarters on June 2rd, 1942 with re-
spect to an agreement reached between
the RLB Headquarters and the NSDAP
Chancellory disclosed the fact that
prior to 18 May 1942 it had been ne-
cessary for RLB officials (Amts-
trager) , including House and Blockwardens,

--- Page 22 ---
to secure a “Certificate of Political
Reliability” from the local party head-
quarters in order to be eligible for
such positions. After 18 May 1942
although it was unnecessary for offi-
cials below the rank of Community
Group Leader (Gemeindegruppenfihrer)
“Certificate”, they
were still required to furnish a state:

to furnish such a

ment on their political status. However,
a “Certificate of Political Reliability”
continued to be required of all RLB
officials holding the rank of Com-

munity Group Leader or higher.

The RLB directive evidences the fact
that the NSDAP had jurisdiction over
all appointments made to the RLB,
especially before May 18th, 1942, and
that any known anti-nazi or other op-
ponent of the party could hardly have
held any official position within the
RLB. The USFET cable directive of
November 6th, 1945 places the position
of RLB Blockwart in a discretionary-
removal category. All officials of the
RLB above the rank of Blockwart,
however, are in a mandatory-removal
category.

Sports Interest Rising

An upswing in sports interest is
reported from Regierungsbezirk Kassel,
with an increased number of appli-
cations being- processed for the for-
mation of sports clubs as they existed
prior to 1933.

The youth of the Regierungsbezirk
seem to be more interested in sports
than politics, and it is hoped this
interest may be utilized to transfer
their unrest into more useful channels.
So far sports activity has been largely
confined to soccer games, but a more
varied program is being considered
in several of the Landkreise.

Similar interest is being shown in
the revival of the pre-1933 choral so-
cieties, and applications for permission
to operate are being processed.

19

Gasoline Coupons Exchange

In order to facilitate essential ci-
vilian travel within the U.S. Zone,
the State Economic Offices in Wies-
baden, Stuttgart and Munich have
devised a plan for the exchange of
gasoline coupons.

Each month coupons covering 2,000
litres of gasoline and 3,000 kilograms
of Diesel oil will be exchanged between
each of the three States. It is planned
to distribute these coupons primarily
in the Kreise adjacent to the other
States, as that is the area in which the
need for gasoline and oil to be used

in such travel will be greatest.

--- Page 23 ---
General

Guide for Clarifying
NATIONALITY OF DPS

In order to clarify the question of
nationality, a USFET letter has been
issued listing countries and political
entities. This furnishes a guide for
military personnel concerned with care
and repatriation of displaced persons,
UNRRA teams in the determination of
nationalities of displaced persons and
summarizes standing policies and pro-
cedures for dealing with various cate-
gories.

There has been a tendency, in many
cases, to identify persons by reference
to their religion, geographical regions,
national sub-divisions, ethnological
groupings and to other unrecognized
categories, rather than by reference to
the political state of which they are
citizens or nationals.

The list of countries and _ political
entities is as follows:

UNITED NATIONS

Albania Ecuador
Argentina Egypt
Australia El Salvador
Belgium Ethiopia
Bolivia France
Brazil Greece
Canada Guatemala
Chile Haiti
China Honduras
Colombia Iceland
Costa Rica India

Cuba Traq
Czechoslovakia Tran
Denmark Lebanon

Dominican Republic Liberia

Standing policies and procedures for
dealing with various categories of
DPs summarized in USFET Letter.

Luxembourg Syria

Mexico Turkey
Netherlands Union of South
New Zealand Africa
Nicaragua United Kingdom &
Norway North Ireland
Panama United States of
Paraguay America

Peru USSR
Philippine Islands. Uruguay

Poland Venezuela
Saudi Arabia Yugoslavia

Persons living in the mandated areas
are to be reported in the category of
the United Nation responsible for the
mandate,

“Great Britain”, as referred to in the
above list, does not include British
Dominions or India, but does cover the
United Kingdom, the British Crown
Colonies (e.g. Gibraltar, Cyprus, Burma),
the Colonies (e.g. Malta, Newfound-
land) and British mandated territories
(e.g. Palestine). Persons from these
areas should be classified and reported
as “British”.

The category “USSR” includes all
Soviet Republics. The incorporation of
Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania into the
Soviet Union as republics has not been
recognized by the United States gov-
ernment.

--- Page 24 ---
PREFERED TREATMENT FOR ITALIANS

While Italy is regarded as an ex-
enemy nation, its nationals, under
standing SHAEF and USFET directives,
are to receive priority treatment over
other ex-enemy nationals.

Persons of Jewish faith who desire
to be repatriated to the country of
which they are nationals will be classi-
fied as citizens of that country. Those
Jews who are without nationality, or
those Jews (not Soviet citizens) who
do not desire to return to their country
of origin, will be reported as “Jews”.

Ex-enemy nationals (other than
Jews) persecuted because of their race,
religion or activities in favor of the
United Nations, should be classified
and reported separately from other ex-
enemy displaced persons.

NEUTRAL NATIONS

Afghanistan Spain

Eire Sweden
Finland Switzerland
Portugal

POLITICAL ENTITIES

Estonia Lithuania

Latvia

EX-ENEMY NATIONS

Austria Japan
Bulgaria Roumania
Germany Siam
Italy

SPECIAL CATEGORIES

Jews (non-repatriable)

Other persecuted, persons of ex-enemy
nationality.

Stateless

Beer Production Resumes

The prohibition of the production
of beer for consumption by German
civilians will be rescinded effective

2

February 12th, 1946, it has been an-
nounced by USFET.

Commencing December ist, malting
barley will be released to German
malsters and brewers. The total deliv-
ery of this year’s crop will not exceed
39,000 metric tons. A total of 21,000
tons will be made available in the
astern Military District and 18,000
tons in the Western Military District.

Allocation and distribution of raw
materials to brewers will be handled
by qualified German civilians. Until
sufficient coal is available to provide
adequately for the maximum operation
of food processing establishments in
each military district, no assistance
will be rendered malsters and brewers
in obtaining fuel.

Present inventories of beer, accord-
ing to the announcement, now may be
sold through normal civilian channels.
Because of incomplete information re-
garding hop inventories in breweries,
however, no hops are to be released
to German brewers until further in-
structions are issuad by USFET.

Non-Germans Allowed
To Leave Country

The Combined Travel Security Board
is prepared to issue military permits
to leave Germany to persons of non-
German nationality who have been in
Germany since prior to 1933 and who
desire to return to their countries for
repatriation.

The granting of these permits, it
was pointed out in a recent USFET
Directive, will be subject to necessary
security clearance in each case and
will be issued under arrangements to
be made by the Military Government
authorities concerned.

Applicants will accomplish CI Form
No. 226 (available at Military Govern-
ment offices in duplicate, and the na-
tional representative designated to

--- Page 25 ---
screen persons of the nationality con-
cerned will indorse the application,
indicating that applicant is acceptable
in his home country. The application
forms, thus indorsed, will be for-
warded direct to the Combined Tra-
vel Security Board.

Cut Wood Left Lying In Forests

Considerable progress is being made
in cutting fuelwood for consumption
during the winter, according to reports
reaching USFET Headquarters, but
only a small percentage of the amount
cut is being transported out of the
woods.

The lack of accumulated stocks of
fuelwood is most serious ‘in urban
areas, where the shortage of fuel is
critical.

Since existing fuelwood cut and lying
in the forests will be covered with
snow shortly, it is imperative that this
wood be transported to collecting
points immediately. USFET has, there-
fore, recommended that immediate ac-
tion be taken to expedite this trans-
portation, using available civilian and
military transport.

Liaison Set Up

For Coal Shipments

Representatives from U.S. Military
Districts are contacting North German
Coal Control personnel in Essen direct
concerning shipments of coal from the
Ruhr and Cologne areas to their re-
spective districts, USFET has been
informed.

The Quartermaster has established
an authorized liaison office in the Ruhr,
and all such contacts with North Ger-
man Control may be made through the
liason office. Direct contacts and ne-
gotiations with coal control authorities,
without the knowledge of Quarter-
master Liaison Group, located at Villa
Hugel, Essen, Germany, may confuse
allocations and hinder dispatch of solid
fuels to U.S. claimants.

22

Field’Reports Continue

Existing field reporting from Kreis
and Regierungsbezirk detachments, as
well as from Regional detachments,
will be continued at least until the
completion of the reports due to be
submitted through December 10th, it
has been announced by USFET.

M. G.’s Civilian Help

Total Held as Low

Maj. Frank L. Tracy, Commanding
Officer of Det. G-233, LK Traunstein,
takes issue with The BULLETIN over
an item appearing in the edition of
October 20th. He writes:

“Reference is made to the following
statement (Page 34) credited to the
President of a Bavarian Regierungsbe-
zirk in his report to the Minister Pre-
sident of that State: “The large number
of Military Government civilian em-
ployees has, in some localities (for
example LK Traunstein, where there
are 250 such employees) necessitated
setting up special wage-calculating bu-
reaus. The resultant tax burden is
heavy,’

“The above-quoted statement is false.
Actually, German civilian employees
of army units in this Landkreis are
as follows:

“Military Government 56
“UNRRA 27
“424th S.R.I. Company 31
“Company M 39th Infantry Rgt. 33
“245th Engineers Combat Bn. 32
“47th Ordnance Group Rest Center 30
“CIC 14
“American Red Cross 10
“Miscellaneous 15
“2nd Chemical Battalion 120
“112th Evacuation Hospital 100

“Tt should be further pointed out
that approximately one third of the
employees of this unit are hired on a
part-time basis as charwomen, etc.”

--- Page 26 ---
German Reactions

Freedom of the Press ~

Under the Title “Fitihrer Principle or
Democracy” the Frankfurter Rundschau
of November 13th launches a
vigorous attack on the Oberbiirger-
meister of Frankfurt, drawing its in-
spiration from an article written by
the Oberbiirgermeister, Dr. Blaum, and
printed in the Reichsverwaltungsblatt in
1940. We reprint the editorial appear-
ing in The Frankfurter Rundschau as
representative of a tendency to po-
litical criticism which is only now be-
ginning to reappear in the German
press after a silence of many years:

“We do no injustice to Dr. Blaum,
the Oberbirgermeister of Frankfurt,
in stating that he considers the ‘Fihrer
Principle’ an extremely valuable dis-
covery. He himself has said as much
in a treatise on the civil administration
of Strassburg which was published in
The Reichsverwaltungsblatt, 61st vo-
lume, 1940. (The Reichsverwaltungsblatt
was edited by Dr. Lammers, Reichs
Minister and Chief of the Reichs Chan-
cellery, one of Hitler’s most intimate
confidants). At that time, France had
just been overrun and the nazis were
cutting a swath in Alsace-Lorraine.
Herr Dr. Blaum felt himself called
upon to write several articles on Al-
sace-Lorraine in this Reichsverwaltungs-
blatt to explain how efficient the Ger-
man administration of this region had
been in the years between 1871 and
1918 (in reality it was absolutely anti-
democratic and wretched), and also
to damn French administration me-
thods. In this connection, he writes
on page 536: ‘Twenty years were

23

y

Ascathing Editorial in Frankfurter
Rundschau, alleging ”’Fiihrer’ ten-
dencies in the Oberbiirgermeister is
representative of the political criticism
now reappearing in German papers.

enough for the French overlords in
Alsace and German Lorraine to re-
duce living conditions and the efficient
administration to a heap of ruins.’

AUTOCRATIC CONCEPTION SEEN

“We know what the expression ‘heap
of ruins’ means. Herr von Papen em-
ployed it when he took over the Reichs
Chancellery in 1932. Hitler and
Goebbels flourished on these lies. We
shall not try to discover the motives
which drove Dr. Blaum to express these
thoughts at the very moment of the
occupation of Alsace-Lorraine by the
nazi troops, or whether or not he was
attempting by this means to keep him-
self in the good graces of the
authorities. However, it is important
to explain Dr. Blaum’s standpoint at
that time in order to understand why
he now believes that there is no need
to make haste in the democratization
of the Frankfurt administration, but
rather to fill it with so-called “com-
petent” administrators. This is closely
connected with his autocratic con-
ception of the position of Oberbiirger-
meister. In this connection, he writes
in the same periodical on page 651:
‘The formerly imported communal ad-
ministration made of the position of
Birgermeister in Alsace-Lorraine a

--- Page 27 ---
veritable fiihrer position. The city coun-
cil was placed under the authority of
the Birgermeister. It had absolutely
nothing to do either with the actual
administration of the city nor in the
appointment of officials and employees
in the public service.’

“He repeats this idea further on and
explains that ‘the Strassburg admini-
stration was founded on the sound
Fihrer Principle’. Then he praises the
Birgermeister of Strassburg and says,
‘Back and Schwander had reached the
same conclusion that maximum success
could be obtained in the administration
of German cities by adopting the same
system based on the Fihrer Principle.’

“When one reads of Dr. Blaum’s
enthusiasm for the Fiihrer Principle
during Hitler’s regime, then one should
not be surprised to find evidence in his
articles of his complete agreement with
Hitler’s policy. Dr. Schwander, for-
merly Dr. Blaum’s chief, and always
his companion in thought, today is
functioning as confidential adviser in
the Frankfurt city administration.

PREVIOUS STAND RECALLED

‘Dr. Blaum has recently complained
of the enormous task confronting the
German authorities as a result of thein-
flux from the East of refugees. He
made no such complaints during the
Hitler era. ‘The victory march of the
German Army in the West’, so he
writes on page 677, ‘has faced the
Third Reich with a new task in ‘space
politics’, that of successfully incor-
porating this area into Greater Ger-
many as an integral part of it. He
considered this type of incorporation
as being in keeping with the Himmler
method of intensive geopolitics, which
strove to transform mixed areas into
racially pure German territory, by
uprooting hundreds of thousands of
people and sending them into Western
France. He defended the same policy
for the Eastern part of the Reich and

24

wrote in this connection: ‘Since the
central problem in the establishment
of Greater Germany lies in the success-
ful resolution of the foreign trade and
strategic situation, it was necessary
to incorporate the new areas into Ger-
many with these factors given their
due importance.’

“The writings of Dr. Blaum in 1940
demonstrate that he had made these
nazi principles his own.

“Today, as Oberbiirgermeister of
Frankfurt, he attempts to carry on ac-
cording to the same principles. The
events of the past days, in particular
the gag rule applied to officials and
employees, may be understood in this
light.

“We, on the other hand, subscribe
to the democratic principle that it is
the right of a free citizen to make
himself heard when he discovers events
which should be brought to the public
attention. Whoever sees, that denazi-
fication is being sabotaged, that active
militarists are being shown preference
in employment, that officials are
derelict in the performance of their
duties, that corruption is widespread,
is, as an official, duty-bound to expose
the situation, and no Oberbiirgermeister
has the right to silence him.

“When anyone in our State is si-
lenced by official decree, the Fiihrer
principle is being exercised, for it
was such actions that characterized
Hitlerism.”

The Rumor Mill

Perhaps some time in the future a
German historian, driven by the sys-
tematizing instinct which characterizes
so many of them, will collect an an-
thology or, better yet, a “Corpus” of
the various rumors in circulation during
the early months of the Allied occu-
pation of Germany. He may even go
so far as to publish a special mono-
graph entitled, “The Rumor of the

--- Page 28 ---
Deutsche Volk as a Primordial Ex-
pression of the Continuum of the Re-
lationship on the International Level
of Nations of the United Nations in
the Politico-Economic Sphere in the
Actuation of Post-Nazi Administrative
Procedures.” In. this work, he will
seek to point out the connection be-
tween what was actually accomplished
and was said.

Certainly there is a very definite
relationship between rumor and fact.
In the first weeks of the occupation,
the Germans, although not greeting
American troops as liberators, were
relieved that their arrival meant the
end of the terrific nervous strain of
the war and particularly of the Allied
bombardments. This sense of relief
was reflected in a fairly optimistic
early crop of rumors. But, as the harsh
reality of the occupation began to make
itself felt, and as it was realized that
Americans had not come to Germany
as benefactors, the rumors became in-
creasingly pessimistic and gloomy.
And, mistaking wish for actuality, fan-
tastic stories of an imminent de-
claration of war between the United
States and Russia received wide cir-
culation, as much in the Russian Zone
as in our own.

WIDE CIRCULATION ASTONISHING

It is astonishing, indeed, with all
means of communication curtailed as
they are, that rumors should obtain
such wide circulation, appearing often
in Kassel and Regensburg in substan-
tially the same form. In some _ in-
stances, they may spring out of
circumstances and conditions which
are very similar, and in others they
seem to be spread by travellers or
refugees. ;

As yet there is no evidence for be-
lieving that rumors have been used
systematically for subversive ends.
Nevertheless, they do show that the
German public is still very much under

25

the influence of nazi propaganda, par-
ticularly in the eagerness which is dis-
played in accepting and passing on tales
which concern relations between Rus-
sia and the United States. The same
state of mind is apparent in all rumors
having to do with DPs. Poles and
Russians even now are referred to
in the same terms of contempt as were
employed by Dr. Goebbels.

It is interesting to trace back to its
origin one of the recent rumors con-
cerning DPs which had a very wide
circulation, particularly in Bavaria.

_Here are two detachment reports from

Mainfranken which state the situation
typically:

“For the past two weeks, a rumor
has circulated that Poles had been
authorized to loot on November 9th.
Rumor was so strong persons who
usually pay no attention to rumor be-
gan to believe it. Tactical troops were
alerted...”

RUMOR NOT FULFILLED

“The rumor has prevailed throughout
the Landkreis that the Poles would
loot any and all premises they desired,
except those occupied by U.S. Forces,
on the day and night of November 9th,
with the permission and approval of
Military Government. This rumor seem-
ed to start quietly about three weeks
ago and greatly increased in circu-
lation to all small villages in this
Landkreis. The population was actually
very frightened, and several commu-
nities took precautionary measures,
such as storing their valuables in one
central building, etc. In spite of extra
guards in the villages, jeep patrols,
arming of Gendarmes and Police, which
were extra precautions taken, the fear
prevailed, especially in the cases of
those who lived in smaller villages
and outlying farmhouses. The above
unrest was strengthened by three armed
robberies and shootings by Poles...
Nothing happened during the period

--- Page 29 ---
8—9 November to fulfill the rumor.”
Possibly to the disappointment of
some who had looked forward to ex-
periencing a modified Eve of St. Bar-
tholomew.”

And here is the payoff, as reported
by a third detachment:

“It is rumored in various Gemeinde
that there will be a levy over a given
period placed on each of the towns
during which Polish DPs may enter
the homes to take necessary clothing.
As a result, public officials report
people are hiding and burying va‘uables.
The cause of this rumor was traced

TRANSLATING PRICES SET

The demand for English translations
has caused many new translating ser-
vices to open, and with it numerous
complaints have arisen over the prices
demanded for such work.

In Bavaria it has not been consider-
ed feasible to invoke a rigid price
regulation, so two tariff regulations in
effect for some years — “The Academ-
ic Translation and Interpreter Office
of the Studentenwerk Munich” and
“The Reichsfachschaft of Interpreters
in the Deutschen Rechtsfront of 1936”
— are being used as a basis for price
formation. All translating and inter-
preting services are being supplied
with copies of these tariffs with orders
to abide by them.

26

to the Biirgermeister of P...... » who,
after being unable to procure two
cream churners for DP use, published
a note that unless these churners were
produced Military Government would
release Poles to search the homes.
The Biirgermeister was corrected for
his action.”

The fact that the Germans added
the specific date of November 9th, the
anniversary of the beginning of an
intensified program against the Jews,
would seem to indicate a most uneasy
conscience.

HEALTH PRECAUTIONS TAKEN

LK Burglengenfeld, in order to pre-
vent an eventual outbreak of communi-
eable diseases, has decided to have
the Kreisarzt inspect the sanitary con-
ditions among the German refugees liv-
ing in centers and to take immediate
steps to ameliorate situations where
necessary.

A special consultation service for
pregnant women and mothers in the
area will be established. Such consul-
tations will be free for persons who
cannot pay, and it is the opinion of
the detachment that this move will be
of help to the population and reduce
the high infant mortality rate in the
Kreis.

--- Page 30 ---
Voices of Experience

Apprentice

Training Programs
to Alleviate Labor Shortage

An acute shortage of skilled workers
in the building trades in Bavaria is
causing a serious problem in the field
of labor allocation as well as in the
housing field.

To alleviate this shortage, apprentice
training programs have been set up,
with use being made of those persons
who have no trade as well as those
whose skills are no longer needed in
their particular fields, such as workers
in the war industries.

These programs are expected to re-
lieve, to a considerable extent, the
shortage of skilled building trades
workers as well as to give many per-
sons the opportunity to learn a useful
trade.

HOUSING DISPUTES

The Landrat of Miesbach, in Regie-
rungsbezirk Oberbayern, has adopted a
new tack in settling housing disputes.

He has ordered all quarrelers over
housing matters — such as landlords,
tenants and sub-tenants — who for-
merly came to him separately, to
appear with both sides represented as
well as a competent arbitrator such as
a Birgermeister or an official of the
Wohnungsamt.

Instruction in skilled tradesis expected
to provide competent workers for
Bavaria housing field.

TRAVELLING LIBRARY BACK

A travelling library again is operat-
ing in Munich. In a streetcar, equipped
with bookshelves, hundreds of publica-
tions are being offered to German civil-
ians. Books and even pages have been
eliminated in order to remove any
trace of Nazi ideology.

SEWING, KNITTING PROJECTS FOR
UNEMPLOYED CLERKS

Sewing and knitting projects are
looked upon as a partial solution to
the problem of unemployed female
clerical employees, especially those
who had work in the German war in-
dustries in LK Landshut.

The sewing and knitting undertak-
ings on work peculiar to that area
will employ a number of persons.
Many women could obtain employment
as domestic workers, but the lack of
coal and the cold quarters discourages

a decision to resort to such a means of
livelihood.

27

--- Page 31 ---
(Press Comments

Starvation and Policy in

EWS SPOTLIGHT

N

With commentators stressing the
importance .of preventing mass star-
vation to save Europe from chaos, the
“Battle of Winter” provided a major
topic for discussion during the week.
Relations between the Western Allies
and Soviet. Russia also continued to
command. much interest. .. Though
editorial. commentators welcomed evi-
dences of the desire of the three great
Powers: to collaborate. in. maintaining
world . peace, they: pointed out that

sharp differences in. policies at. some -

points still exist between Soviet Russia
on the one hand, and Britain and the
United States. on the other. -

The New York’ Times on November
12th ‘devoted two full pages to an
account of conditions in Europe. Writ-
ing from London; C.L. Sulzberger de-
clared that “despite: redoubled relief

efforts by the victorious Allied powers, ~~

the unhappy Continent-of Europe faces
one of its bleakest, saddest winters
since the chaos of the Thirty Years
War.” Another Times correspondent,
Raymond: Daniell; in a dispatch from
Berlin, said that “this will be a winter
of cold, hunger and idleness in all of
Germany: It probably will be remem-

bered as the worst the German people ~~ -

have faced in all modern times”.

“We cannot afford to let them. __

starve, irrespective of what they have
done others in the last ten years”,
declared Cedric Foster in a broadcast
over MBS. “Starvation means chaos —
chaos means years of occupation and

~ gration and chaos”.

28

fp re
Aye Ne =|
Ge Oy Nes dk Gina gs

The press emphasizes that starvation
is not an American instrument of

policy.

the restoration of: order”. Another
American commentator, David Law-
rence, warned that if news photogra-
phers “do an honest: job, the Ameri-
can people will see movies of ‘starv-
ing men, women and children whiclz
will rival-in their horror. the pictures..
of the . Buchenwald
camps”.

Disclosing that at the present time
the food situation “is more critical
than at any time since we entered
Germany”, Field Marshal-Montgomery,
in a talk with British and American

concentration

correspondents in Berlin, described his __

plans for fighting the “Battle the Win-
ter” in the British Zone.

In an editorial on November 13th,
The London ‘Times ‘explained that
Field Marshal Montgomery had -in
mind not so mucha struggle against ©
scarcity “as against general disinte-
If a complete
breakdown is to be prevented’in Ger-
many “there isurgent need to draw
more effectively on German 'exper-~
ience and German administrative com-
petence.and to do so on the broadest
possible scale”, The Times declared.
“To deal with the grave problems of
the German economy in isolated zones
in default of any German authority
competent to take a general view of

--- Page 32 ---
the whole is to make a difficult task
impossible”.

The emphasis placed by Allied lead-
ers in recent statements on the prin-
ciple of international collaboration was
hailed by The New York Times “as
a victory for the public opinion of
the world”. But the latest speeches
of Mr. Molotoff and Mr. Churchill and
Foreign Minister Bevin, The Times
added, “have again emphasized the di-
vergence of views between Great Bri-
tain and the United States on the one
hand, and Russia on the other.” Speech-
es of the British leaders, in the de-
bate on foreign policy in Parliament,
“indicate the depth of the rift which
today exists between British and So-
viet concepts on world affairs”, assert-
ed The Washington Star.

Soviet opinion was divided on the
proposal of the United States, Great
Britain and Canada that secrets of the
atomic bomb be witheld until safe-
guards are worked out against it by
the United Nations. Though according
to one Soviet riew it might by satis-
factory, anothe suggested that the
three Powers might be fishing for So-
viet information while holding back the
secret of the atomic bomb. Soviet ob-
servers pointed out that the previous
position of secrecy of the bomb taken
by the United States had created a
considerable amount of suspicion el-
sewhere.

In the opinion of a well-known Amer-
ican commentator, the Allies in trying
to settle the war, are making the great
strategical error which they avoided
in waging the war. “We are dispersing
our strength on sideshows in the se-
condary theaters instead of concéntrat-
ing first of all on the central and
primary objective” declared Walter
Lippman. “Since Potsdam and indeed
in considerable degree since Yalta, we
have lost sight of the main issue in
Europe, which is the German settle-
ment, and have drifted into secondary

29

disputes all around the edges of Eur-
ope. We may have been right as rain
about such questions as Trieste, the
Italian colonies, the Roumainian Gov-
ernment and the Bulgarian elections.
They were, nevertheless, not the ques-
tions which deserved to come first,
and the real reason we got nowhere
in settling them is that they cannot be
settled until a basic German settlement
has been agreed to”.

OCCUPATION CRITICS

Military Government continued to
provide a target for some editorial cri-
ticism during the week. Commentators
laid particular stress on rapid rede-
ployment, and alleged lack of qualifica-
tions among personnel as factors affect-
ing the efficiency of Military Govern-
ment operations.

A typical criticism was that of The
Washington Post, which declared that
“Military Government in Germany is
rapidly breaking down”. One reason
for its failure, The Post said, “is the
reckless shifting of trained Army ad-
ministration officers out of Germany,
leaving many inexperienced officers
and impotents in charge. Probably
more important is the fact that these
officers are often not equipped to
handle the basic problems of a defeat-
ed nation. The real problem is that of
finding competent civilian personnel”.

Another critical comment was that
of Frank Mason, of The North Ame-
rican Newspaper Alliance, who said in
a dispatch printed in The New York
Times that “confusion and chaos in the
Military Government in the United
States Zone of Germany is frequently
constrated by our officers with the
singleness of purpose shown by the
British, Russian and French occupation
forces in their respective areas”.

In the opinion of The Boston Herald,
however, the criticisms of the admini-
stration of the American Zone “would
probably be as widespread and bitter

--- Page 33 ---
if civilians had taken over immediately
after the surrender”. Pointing out that
there was no experience to which any
group could turn for guidance, The
Herald reminded its readers that “a
great nation has vanished”, and warn-
ed that the “readjustment or recon-
version of the remnants of it to a kind
of life entirely different from that of
the past will be immensely difficult
and protracted. Until the process is
completed, and the Germans, stripped
of their power to initiat another
war, are aga‘n their own masters, the
wisest of military or civilian rulers
will be likely to make many blunders.”

GERMAN INDUSTRY

General Eisenhower's third monthly
report has directed attention anew to
the urgency of a problem in the solu-
tion of which little seems to have been
accomplished, declared The Baltimore
Evening Sun, in a recent editorial. This
is the problem of treating Germany as
an economic unit, it explained. “Unless
German production can be resumed,
there will be mass hunger and mass
unemployment”, The Sun said. “Those
things can drive a people into conspira-
cies and resistance which, though futile
against our power, can prolong and
embitter the whole job of remaking
Germany. Were we to assume the bur-
den of feeding Germany through the
winter, we should not thereby provide
work for its people. But if they can
be put to work, then they will begin
to make progress toward feeding them-
selves”.

French poposals for the internation-
alization of the Ruhr received strong
support from William Philip Simms,
Scripps-Howard writer on foreign af-
fairs. “For the sake of French econ-
omy, the status not only of the Ruhr,
but the whole Rhineland should be

settled at the earliest moment” said
Simms. “Unless we wish to contribute
to the ruin of democratic France, our
traditional friend and ally, we should
favor placing the Rhineland’s resources
at her disposal.”

SOVIET CENSORSHIP

American commentatores welcomed
the recent lifting of Soviet censorship
on news dispatches filed by American
and other foreign correspondents in
Russia. Major George Fielding Elliot
described this action as “an event
which may well be one of the most
important and significant occurrences
of the post-war period,” and hailed it
as a “great forward step.” Said a New
York Times editorial: “We hope that
the new policy sticks, and that it will
be followed by other steps to encour-
age a freer flow of news from Rus-

sia.”

Soviet Russia is as anxious as the
United States to reduce the size of
its occupation force in Germany, while
only the British are skeptical of the ad-
visability of reducing military occupa-
tion to token size, Raymond Daniell
asserted recently in a dispatch to The
New York Times.

“American pressure for reduction is
compounded of sentiment and the need
for economy and tax reduction,” said
Daniell. “The Russians want to hasten
demobilization because of the acute
shortage of manpower for agriculture
and industry at home. British reluct-
ance to withdraw springs from a deep
conviction that German reform can be
accomplished only by a show of the
Allies’ military force and the military
idea that as long as large air and land
forces must be maintained, Germany
is a better place than the home island
in which to train them.”

30

--- Page 34 ---
(Personnel Data

QUALIFICATIONS for CIVILIAN Joos

Personnel qualifications for civilian jobs at Regional level of Military Government
are described in these briefs. Qualifications for additional posts open to Military
Government personnel will be published in forthcoming issues of The BULLETIN.

HEAD OF ECONOMICS FUNCTION —
P-7
(Base Pay Plus Overseas —
$ 8,968.75)

Must bave broad knowledge of Ger-
man economy and comprehensive fa-
miliarity with all public and private
activities in public utilities, industry,
mining, POL, commerce and trade, and
price control and rationing. Must have
demonstrated capacity to estimate re-
quirements and make allocations for
all economic goods, except food, to
meet minimum German needs, to in-
sure that in no case will their standard
of living rise above that of liberated
countries, and to effect the reorgani-
zation of German economy in such a
manner as to provide maximum vul-
nerability to blockade and bombing.

Must be able to formulate policy on
existing declarations and general ob-
jectives of Allied economic controls
and to direct and exact obedience from
highly trained and experienced admini-
strators, manufacturers, commercial
specialists and others. Knowledge of
present and past German economic
structure should be of such nature as
to enable him to detect any evasion of
policy or inefficiency of operation on
the part of these personalities. Should
have college degree -in economics.

PUBLIC UTILITIES SPECIALIST —
CAF-13
(Base Pay Plus Overseas —
$ 7,787.50)
Must be thoroughly experienced in
the utilization and control of all public

31

utilities — water, sewage, light, power,
and gas; be able to prepare and en-
force administrative and technical di-
rectives, and to impose controls that
will make impossible the diversion of
electricity or gas to unauthorized in-
dustries. Must be able to define re-
lative needs of German and Allied
enterprises and make proper allocat-
ions of public utilities services. Must
have administrative experience and
should have engineering degree.

The position of Staff Member in this
section is also available with lesser
degree of responsibility at CAF-11,
base pay plus overseas, $ 5,375.

STAFF ASSISTANT-ENGINEER — P-3
(Base Pay Plus Overseas —
$ 4,550)

Experience in general will be the
same as for Staff Member with ac-
ceptable background in engineering.
Emphasis should be on organizational
and engineering problems common to
all types of industrial controls. Degree
in engineering desirable.

TO LT. COLONEL

Maj. Richard G. Jackson,
8d M.G. Regt.
Maj. Jacob N. Silvey, 3d M.G. Regt.

--- Page 35 ---
TO MAJOR

Capt. Myron D. Downs, 3d M.G. Regt.

Capt. Albert C. Schweizer,
3d M.G. Ret.
Capt. Elmore R. Torn, 3d M.G. Regt.

TO CAPTAIN
ist Lt. Chester C. Axvall,
3d M.G. Ret.

TO FIRST LIEUTENANT
2nd Lt. Murray Ackermann,
3d M.G. Regt.
2nd Lt. William C. Hunt, Jr.,
2d M.G. Regt.
2nd Lt. Frantz G. Loriaux,-
3d M.G. Ret.
2nd Lt. Richard J. Schiff,
3d M.G. Regt.

TO MASTER SERGEANT
T/Sgt. John M. Haney, 3d M.G. Ret.

TO TECHNICAL SERGEANT

S/Sgt. Robert G. Jaeger, 3d M.G. Ret.
S/Sgt. Vincent P. Piano, 3d M.G. Regt.
S/Sgt. Clifford White, 3d M.G. Regt.

TO STAFF SERGEANT
Sgt. Rubin R. Faine, 3d M.G. Ret.

Tec. 4 Joseph H. Gindele, 3d M.G. Ret.

Tec. 4 John H. Heyman, 3d M.G. Regt.

Sgt. Horace E. Luscomb, 3d M.G. Regt.
Tec. 4 Charles C. McKee, 3d M.G. Rat.

TO TECHNICIAN THIRD GRADE
Tec. 4 Guenter Borg, 3d M.G. Ret.

TO SERGEANT

Cpl. Edward J. Berra, 3d M.G. Regt.
Cpl. Bernard F. Farber, 3d M. G. Regt.
Tec. 5 Eugene A. O’Connor,

3d M.G. Regt.
Tec. 5 Charles A. O’Rourke,

3d M.G. Regt.
Cpl. Bernard F. Shaw, 3d M.G. Regt.
Cpl. Gerald H. Thorson, 3d M.G. Regt.

32

TO TECHNICIAN FOURTH GRADE

Tec. 5 Lee St. Evans, 3d M.G. Ret.
Tec. 5 Jacob D. Fry, 3d M.G. Regt.

Tec. 5 John H. Moore, 3d M.G. Regt.
Tec. 5 Mack B. Morris, 3d M.G. Rgt.
Tec. 5 Manfred Philip, 3d M.G. Ret.

TO CORPORAL
George Carl, 3d M.G. Regt.
Lawson M. Crone, 3d M.G. Regt.
Jerry Dale, 3d M.G. Regt.
Ralph B. Dockendorf,
3d M.G. Regt.
Ellied Douglas, 3d M.G. Regt.
Ofenton Gomillion, 3d M.G. Regt.
Harry Huberman, 3d M.G. Regt.
Walter Oxe, 3d M. G. Ret.
Charles Schwartz, 3d M.G.Rgt.

Pfe.
Pfc.
Pfc.
Pfe.

Pfe.
Pfe.
Pfe.
Pfe.
Pfe.

TO TECHNICIAN FIFTH GRADE

Pic. Jack D. Bostwick, 3d M.G. Regt.
Pfc. Ross P. DiGiorgi, 3d M.G. Regt.
Pfc. Frank J. Geredy, 3d M.G. Regt.
Pfc. Robert E. Huck, 3d M.G. Ret.
Pfc. Julian B. Kline, 3d M.G. Regt.
Pfc. Harry D. Levitan,

Hq. 3d M.G. Ret.
Pic. Ernest W. Moser, 3d M.G. Regt.
Pfc. Daniel J. Reppert, 3d M.G. Regt.
Pfc. Carl A. Seydewitz, 3d M.G. Regt.
Pfc. Gerrit W. Vreeman, 3d M.G. Regt.

TO PRIVATE FIRST CLASS

Pvt. William Carton, Hq. 3d M.G. Regt.
Pvt. Peter D’Archangel,

Hq. 3d M.G. Ret.
Pvt. James S. Gallegos,

Hg. 3d M.G. Regt.
Pvt. Matthew M. Haupt,

Hg. 3d M.G. Regt.
Pvt. Bracey L. Hilton,

Hg. 3d M.G. Regt.
Pvt. J. V. Owens, Hq. 3d M.G. Ret,
Pvt. Hans Pasch, Hq. 3d M.G. Regt.
Pvt. Louis A. Tapia, Hq. 3d M.G. Regt.
Pvt. Edmund Wiezbowski, :

2d M.G. Regt.
Pvt. Charles E. Young,

Hq. 3d M.G. Ret.