--- Page 2 ---
No. 19 — 1 DEZEMBER 1945

Military Government

Weekly
Information Bulletin

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
WESTERN MILITARY DISTRICT
GREAT HESSE, NORTH WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

23 OCTOBER 1945

*OFGEIS

2
et

~

5
4

BRITISH ZONE

FRANKENBERG Vharzan UNGER
me: HOMBERS
bei aia, | 2 ROTENBURG

a
 aiecen- x
Hain ( NERSFELO

ca
( seh
fo

(

1

M
?
f FRENCH
NY aah

eget orn

.
’
i

LEGEND

RED REGIERUNGSBEZIRKE ANO
LANDESBEZIRK BADEN

BLACK LANOKREISE AND STAOTKREISE

TATISTICS SEGTION

SOURCE OMG R&! BRANCH A IC GEN STAFF USFET

--- Page 4 ---
No. 19 — 1 DECEMBER 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---
CONTENTS

PAGE

Military Government Letters and Instructions Issued This Week 3

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY. 4
The January Elections . . . 1... 1 1 1 wwe 4
Political Activity at Land Level 7
Towards Strong Administration Lo 9
Analysis of Returns of Political Activity Report

» 13

Democracy vs. the "Police State". . 1. . . . . . . 20
GENERAL ...... 2... 2. ee. 24
The Jubilaumsbau at Marburg) . . . . «ww. . 24
Transportation Responsibility Switches to Germans. . . 26
Soviet Repatriation ©... 2. 2 1 1 ee we 7
Uniforms for Interpreters 2. 2. 1 2. 1 1 eww 27
Ration Scales 2 1 ww ee ee ee
Law 8 Interpretation . 2. 2. 2. 6. 2 1 wee 27
VOICES OF EXPERIENCE ........ . 28
GERMAN REACTIONS... ....... . 30
German Political Leaders on Denazification . . . . . 30
PRESS COMMENTS........... . 36
War Trials Seen as Historic Landmark . . . . . . . 36
Occupation Alternative . . . 2... 1 1... 87
German Arrogance . . . . 1... 1 1 ww. . 38
Change in Command ........ =... . 38
Random Comments . . . . . . . ss ee es 38
PERSONNEL DATA ............41
Qualifications for Civilian Jobs. 1. 2 2 1. 2. 1 1. 4
Payment in Lieu of TerminalLeave . . . . . . . . 44
Promotions. 2). 6 6 ee ee ee ee ee 44

--- Page 6 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT LETTERS AND
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED DURING THE WEEK

Amendments to the Directive to Commanding Generals, Military
Districts, dated 7 July 1945, Subject: Administration of Military
Government: in the U. S. Zone of Germany.

Amendment to Section, “Removal of Nazis and
.Militarists in the German Reichspost"

Release of Soviet Citizens, Subject to Repatriation Under
the Yalta Agreement, from Employment by Germans _ in
the U. S. Zone

Amendment to Letter, “Instructions to Military Government
Finance. Officers No. 2 and No. 3,” (File GEC-100 =
many] dated 22 October 1945) . Bee .

Action to Strengthen German Civil Administration in the
U. S. Zone . poo Hono 5 5 oD oOo

Uniform for Military Intelligence Interrogators and Investigators

Amendment (Channel of Communication to the Council of
German Minister Presidents of the U. S. Zone): to Letter,
“Regional Government Coordinating a dated 2 No-
yember 1945 5 a.56 6 Poe

Amendment to Inclosure 2 (Section Ill — Political Activities)
to Letter dated 27 August 1945 .

Amendment (Local Government Codes and Elections) to
Directives. “Administration of Military Government in the
U. S. Zone in Germany," dated 27 August and 20 Septem-
ber 1945, (File AG 014.1 GEC-AGO), and Directive GE-
000.1, “Gemeinde Elections in U. S. Zone," dated 12 Oc-
tober 1945 . Ce

Amendment to Section XXV, Reports and Information on
Administration of Military Government in the U. S. Zone
in Germany, dated 3 August 1945 .

Applicants for Information Control Activities .

20 November 1945 (file
AG 014.1: GEC-AGO)

17 November 1945 (file
AG 383.7 GEC-AGO)

20 November 1945 (file
AG. 014.1 GEC-AGO)

» 21 November 1945

21 November 1945 (file
AG 421 GBI-AGO)

21 November 1945 (file
AG 322 GEC-AGO

23 November 1945 (file

"AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

23 November 1945 (file
GE-EX 000.1)

23 November 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

24 November 1945 (file
AG 201.3 PMG-AGO)

--- Page 7 ---
Hightights of Poticy

The

The Office of Military Government,
U. S. Zone, issued (November 23rd)
a Directive on local government codes
and elections under which local
councils will be elected in approxi-
mately 11,000 Gemeinden. This is an
important step toward restoring the
representative basis of local democracy
which Hitler destroyed twelve years
ago and toward forcing the Germans
to assume a greater. share of respon-
sibility in their own affairs.

Military Government officers gener-
ally feel that January is too soon to
hold elections, because the Germans
are preoccupied with the immediate
problems of food, fuel, clothing and
shelter. As far as the larger cities
are concerned, such an objection is
valid, but it is less true of smaller
communities which, on the whole, have
suffered comparatively little war
damage and in which the conditions
of life are easier. Many Gemeinden
in the U. S. Zone have fewer than
5,000 inhabitants and should be able
to hold elections on comparatively
short notice. The directive specifically
excludes Stadtkreise and other Ge-
meinden with more’ than 20,000
population from the January elections.

Military Government regulations
applicable to the elections are chiefly
found in four Directives issued as
follows: August 27th as amended No-
vember 23rd (Political Activities and
Formation of Political Parties); Sep-
tember 20th (Local Government
Codes) ; October 12th (Police Registra-

JANUARY

Elections

USFET has returned the local
election codes to the Land Gov-
ernments and issued its direc-
tive ion the elections to be held
in January.

tion Files to be Kept up to Date so
That Lists of Voters May be Promptly
Prepared from the Files); and No-
vember 23rd (Local Government Codes
and. Elections).

The Directive of August 27th
authorizes the formation of democratic
political parties under prescribed
conditions and subject to the approval
of Military Government. Approval has
already been given to a considerable
number of parties, but there will
doubtless be others which will make
application in the near future. Since
the time is short, it is imperative that
Military Government officers expedite
action on these applications. Under the
November 23rd amendment, parties
may be organized on a Land basis and
not just on a Kreis basis. For parties
organized on a Land basis, the Land
Office of Military Government will be
responsible except for the security
requirements of political meetings for
which the Kreis Military Government
Office is still responsible.

"HANDS OFF"

In general the primary responsibility
for the elections rests upon the Ger-
man Land and local governments. The.
role of Military Government will be

--- Page 8 ---
largely that of supervision and
facilitation. To avoid any possible
charge of bias, prejudice or favoritism
on the part of military personnel, the
role of Military Government will be
to maintain a “hands off” policy
towards politics and election matters
except to insure a fair, orderly and
impartial election, and compliance with
the provisions of Directives.

The November 21st Directive pur-
posely leaves many things to the Land
governments. The local government
codes (Gemeindeordnungen) have al-
ready been drafted by the Land
governments and approved by the
Office of Military Government for Ger-
many (U. S.). The Gemeindeordnun-
gen contain provisions relating to
the suffrage, the method of election
(proportional representation of ma-
jority election system), terms of office
organization and powers of Gemeinde
governments, etc. The details relating
to the conduct of elections are found
in Land Wahlordnungen, The Ge-
meindeordnungen and the Wahlordnun-
gen constitute the German law govern-
ing elections.

The September 20th Directive speci-
fically states that the date of the
election will be “determined at the
discretion of the detachment comman-
der of the military government detach-
ment having jurisdiction over the Ge-
meinde concerned”. Subsequent devel-
opments have made this provision
obsolete. It is now contemplated that
each Land government, in consultation
with the Office of Military Govern-
ment for that Land, will determine
the date or dates of elections. The
commander of each Landkreis Mili-
tary Government Office will, however,
be responsible for certifying that the
elections in the Gemeinden under his
jurisdiction are “consistent with mili-
tary security”.

Before 1933 German elections were
normally held on Sunday, and it is

likely that the same plan will followed
in January. Because of the ‘shortness
of the time, the first Sunday in Jan-
uary may be out of the question,
but January 13th, 20th, and 27th are
possible dates.

The November 21st Directive defines
German citizenship for purpose of voting,
fixes the minimum voting age for men and
women at 21 years and prescribes that
not more than one year of residence
in the Gemeinde prior to the election
may be required as a qualification for
voting. One year was the maximum re-
sidence requirement permitted under
the Weimar Constitution of 1919.
Under the Directive, a Land govern-
ment may set any residence require-
ment so long as it not over one year.

The Directive defines the four
categories to be used in the de-
nazification of voters.

Excluded from the suffrage by Par.
6a are “persons in the mandatory ar-
rest categories unless already released
from arrest”. Since most of these people
are still actually under arrest in de-
tention centers, they will physically
be unable to vote even if otherwise
qualified. Persons who have been: re-
leased from arrest or from arrest cate-
gories may vote, if they are not dis-
qualified, under Pars. 6b, c, and d.

Par. 6b excludes two _ principal
groups — the nazi party members and
the members of the SS. No person who
has been at any time a member of the
SS may vote. In the case of nazi party
members, a line is drawn between
those who joined before May 1st 1937
and those who joined afterwards. No
individual who joined the party before
May ist, 1937 May vote.

All active party members who
joined after that date are likewise
denied the vote. But what is an “ac-
tive” party member? An “active” par-

--- Page 9 ---
ty member is one who has been an
official, officer or non-commissioned
officer of the party or who has other-
wise demonstrated that he was more
than a nominal participant in its ac-
tivities.

Par. 6c excludes officials, officers
or non-commissioned officers at any
time of Sturmabteilung (SA), Hitler-
Jugend (HJ), Bund deutscher Madel
(BdM), NSD-Studentenbund, NSD-Do-
zentenbund, NS-Frauenschaft, NS-Kraft-
fahrkorps and NS-Fliegerkorps.

Officials or officers of the party
organizations (Gliederungen) and of
the associated organizations (ange-
schlossene Verbande) are excluded from
voting, except insofar as they are not
party members.

Under Pars. 6b and ¢, officials, of-
ficers and non-commissioned officers
include all persons whose functions or
responsibilities in the party and the
party organizations entailed any duty
or authority beyond that of the
ordinary member.

Par. 6d denies the vote to “known
nazi sympathizers and collaborators”.
This is the most difficult of the cate-
gories to enforce according to objective
standards. It is not intended to be
indiscriminately used on the basis of
mere denunciation but should be in-
voked only where the evidence of sym-
pathy or collaboration is clear and
where it is not possible to disfranchise
under categories a, b, or c.

DENAZIFICATION a GERMAN TASK

Undoubtely a large number of Ger-
mans will be kept from voting under
the categories of Par. 6. This does not
necessarily mean that all such people
will be permanently disfranchised. The
German Land governments will later
be given an opportunity to work out
methods for restoring the suffrage to
Germans who have been cleared. But
for the present, the men and women
responsible for wrecking democracy in

Germany will not be allowed to parti-
cipate in the first elections of the post-
Hitler era.

The administration of denazification
of voters will be carried out according
to the methods prescribed by the Land
governments in consultation with the
Land Offices of Military Government.
It may be that the Land Governments
will entrust the responsibility to the
regular precinct and Gemeinde election
committees which are provided for in
the election laws. Another method is
by special Fragebogen filled out by
the voters themselves. This was used
with considerable success in the pre-
parations for the Austrian elections
of November 25th. In any event, the
problem is one for the Germans them-
selves to solve, Military Government
officers are not called upon to vet the
voters but ,will judge and report
through Military Government channels
the adequacy of the German effort.

In addition to ensuring that the
elections are held “consistent with
military security”, Military Gov-
ernment must ensure that candi-
dates are eligible to vote and
hold office.

The November 21st Directive states .
that candidates for the Gemeinde Coun-
cil must be qualified voters and that
Military Government at the Landkreis
level “will disapprove candidates who
have not been completely cleared of
nazi ideology”. Here Military Govern-
ment does have a direct responsibility
for ascertaining that candidates meet
the qualifications for voting and also
for holding office as prescribed in Sec-
tion II of the July 7th USFET di-
rective. Military Government should
endeavor to complete its examination
of candidates as promptly as possible
before the election. This may not be
feasible in the case of last-minute en-

--- Page 10 ---
tries. These late comers should not be
automatically excluded but will have
to run the risk of being disapproved
after the election.

It will not be easy to hold elections
under present conditions. Shortages of
equipment and supplies will without
doubt be widely felt. In particular, pa-
per will be needed for election posters
and proclamations and for printing the
official ballot envelopes and_ ballots.
Military Government officers will do

all they ‘can to assist German officials
in securing the necessary equipment
and supplies. Moreover, Land and
Kreis governments may require ad-
ditional transportation and communi-
cation facilities if the elections are to
be carried through on schedule. Here
again Military Government can help.
Finally, Military Government should

. facilitate the prompt return of the

election results through German chan-
nels by the quickest available means.

Political Activity at Land Level

Permission for the formation of dem-
ocratic political parties to engage
in political activities throughout each
Land can now be granted by Regional
Detachments, according to an amend-
ment to the July 7th Directive (Sec-
tion III, Political Activities, issued
August 27th) which was published on
November 28rd.

The Potsdam Agreement provides
that: “All democratic political parties
with rights of assembly and of public
discussion shall be allowed and en-
couraged throughout Germany.” As a
first step towards implementing this
premise, political parties were author-
ized in August to organize at Kreis
level. At the time, it was undesirable
to permit organization at higher ad-
ministrative levels, chiefly because it
was considered that the Land govern-
ments were not sufficiently stable to
permit extended political activity at
their level. Communications: were so
inadequate that, had political parties
been allowed initially to organize at
Land Level and then to filter down to
the people throughout the Kreise, it
would have been far more difficult to
adjust the political parties to the real
political inclinations of the people.

Having been forced to establish
themselves initially at Kreis level, the

USFET has authorized political
parties to expand their activities
from Kreis to Land level organi-
zation,

political parties which are now
flourishing in the U.S. Zone have an
authentic “grass-roots” quality about
them — and an appeal which has a
far more personal and vital interest
to the individual German than if they
had been started in the Land capitals
and had, conceivably, been in the hands
of persons far less capable of handling
political questions than those who will
now arise.

ATTITUDE OF LAND OFFICIALS |

The Minister Presidents and their
cabinets all recognized the value. of
the political parties as they were
originally formed at Kreis level, and
have looked forward to the time when
the step of allowing the parties to
form at Land level could be taken.
They have felt the need for a contact
with the people —.a contact which
can only be obtained through political
channels. There has also been the
question of emphasizing the coalition
characteristics of each of the three’

--- Page 11 ---
cabinets, which correspond roughly to
the political parties now active. The
Minister Presidents have, in addition,
felt that perinitting the parties to or-
ganize at a Land level would give
them a popular support which they do
not now enjoy.

All the major political groups, of
course, have ardently sought for per-
mission to operate at Land level. That
they are sufficiently established at
Kreis level from a “grass roots” point
of view is demonstrated by the ana-
lysis of the returns of the Military
Government Political Activity Report
(see page 13). Not only have the two
left-wing parties (the Communists and
Socialists) but also the so-called bour-
geois parties have looked forward to
extending their organization to higher
administrative levels.

Both German Officials and Military
Government officers have felt that the
political parties, permitted to operate
at Land level, could assist the Land
governments by: Preparing for the
coming elections in communities which
are now wanting both in leaders and
interest; emphasizing the political re-
sponsibility of the citizen towards
establishing the democratic way of life;
carrying on positive propaganda which
would run parallel to denazification;
developing new leaders, at the same
time working among former Hitler-
Jugend and returned PWs; and by
developing and disciplining their own
party organizations throughout the
Land.

Of particular importance to the Land
governments is the need for Land level
organization of political parties prior
to the coming elections, so that there
may be a cohesion along democratic
lines brought about by the election.

Thus, within the limitations set down
by the Potsdam Agreement, the Ger-
mans in this Zone may anticipate clearly
defined unities, disagreements, and
issues which will be of interest to the

whole Land (agricultural reform in
Greater Hessen, for example) such as
are healthy and necessary to a demo-
cracy.

IMPLEMENTATION OF DIRECTIVE
NEEDED

The permission now granted to par-
ties to organize on a Land level, as set
forthinthe Directive, is merely a per-
mission in principle. The Regional de-
tachments are required to inform the
political parties, and to make the ne-
cessary readjustments in order to
supervise political activities. For in-
stance, existing authorized Kreis po-
litical parties may continue their se-
parate existence if they wish. The fact
that there will be Land level political
activity must be taken into account in
effecting the October 5th Directive on
the Reorganization of Military Govern-
ment,

Problems of' other kinds will un-
doubtedly arise. The directive, for
example, makes no provision for the
limitation of the number of political
parties. It merely states: “Except for
the extent of the area of activity, all
provisions of the directive referred to
.... (in the basic Directive) shall be
applicable to such parties and their
activities, and to the procedures for,
nature of, and reports on permissions.”
The Land Hessen government has di-
rected that before a political party
or a coalition of several parties may
enter candidates for election within
the Land it must prove that it has
twenty per cent of the electorate. This
is considered a legitimate means of
limiting the number of parties. Such
legislation comes before Military Gov-
ernment for approval prior to being
adopted. The Land detachments will
have many such problems of a political
nature on which decisions, bearing on
political parties at their administrative
level, will have to be made.

--- Page 12 ---
Towards

STRONG CIVIL ADMINISTRATION

In a letter* dated November 21st, the
Director, Office of Military Govern-
ment, U.S. Zone, brought together in
one paper all of the data thus far.
published by USFET on the functions
of the German Civil Administration
and its relationship to Military Gov-
ernment. It is published below in its
entirety for the information of all con-
cerned with the two significant direc-
tives issued on November 28rd, which
have been discussed in preceding ar-
ticles of this issue.

I. The steps which have been taken
to accomplish the objective of requir-
ing German authorities to exercise re-
sponsibility for the operation of the
machinery of government make it ne-
cessary that the Minister Presidents
of the several States be fully informed
of their responsibilities and the powers
which they may exercise and of the
control which will be maintained by
Military Government. The information
given in the succeeding paragraphs of
this letter will therefore be transmitted
to such Minister Presidents:

1, RELATIONSHIP OF MILITARY
GOVERNMENT TO THE GERMAN
AUTHORITIES.

The relationship between Military
Government and the German authori-
ties is based upon the establishment
of an autonomous state government in
the three states of the United States

“letter headquarters USFET, Office of Military
EGovernment (U. S. Zone) subject: Action
to Strengthen German Civil Administration in
the U. S. Zone, dated 21 November, addres-
sed to the Directors of the Offices of Mili-
tary Government for Western Military District,
Bavaria, Greater Hessen, and North Baden-
Wirttemberg.

Zone subject to a centralized Military
Government control applied at the lo-
cal state government level. (Incl. 3 to
ref. c.).

2. CONSTITUTION OF LANDER.

Three Lander were constituted in
the U.S. Zone for Germany by the
Theater Commander’s Proclamation
No, 2. (Incl. 3 to ref. c.).

3. ORGANIZATION OF STATE (LAND)
GOVERNMENTS.

Provision was made for each to have
a state government, with executive,
legislative, and judicial powers, the
state government to exercise all powers
and responsibilities formerly exercised
by the state and in addition, within
the state, the powers formerly exercis-
ed by the Reich government. The state
government is composed of functional
Ministries, responsible for the perform-
ance of all functions, including those
formerly performed therein by Reich
agencies. Such Ministries are subordi--
nate to and accountable to the Minister
President, who in turn, is responsible
to the Director, Office of Military Gov-
ernment for the state (Land). (Incl. 1
and 8 to ref. c.).

4. POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF
THE STATE (LAND) GOVERNMENT.
The state government has full re-

sponsibility for the operation of the

machinery of government within the
state and the authority to take what-
ever action is necessary to fulfill such
responsibility, subject to such control
as must be exercised by Military Gov-
ernment to accomplish the purposes
of the occupation, and except as the
exercise thereof would be in conflict

--- Page 13 ---
with actions heretofore or hereafter
taken by the Control Council for Ger-
many or any central authority establish-
ed by it. The initiative must be taken
by the German authorities, the duty
is theirs. (Incl. 3 to ref. c.).

a. Executive Functions.

The Minister President and his func-
tional Ministers have the right to ap-
point all officials within the state sub-
ject to the prior approval of Military
Government with respect to political
reliability. This power will not,
however, be allowed to interfere with
the authority of representative bodies
when such are chosen by elective pro-
cess. Until revised Civil Service legis-
lation is produced and put into effect,
all appointments and all retentions in
office are on a temporary basis. How-
ever, removals will not normally be
effected except for cause.

b. Legislative Functions.

(1) Subject to the authority of Mili-
tary Government each state is given
full legislative, judicial and executive
powers except as the exercise thereof
would be in conflict with actions here-
tofore or hereafter taken by the Con-
trol Council for Germany or any cen-
tral German authority established by
it. The authority of the Landrite,
mayors, and other local officials to
enact legislation and exercise other
governmental power to the same extent
to which they had such authority under
German law in force at the time. of
the occupation, as from time to time
modified by the Control Council for
Germany or by or with the approval
of Military Government, is recognized
and additional authority is given where
necessary or appropriate to carry out
the tasks with the performance of which
that are charged by Military Govern-
ment, (Incl. 3 to ref. c.).

(2) All legislation issued by German
authorities at any level will be issued

10

upon their sole responsibility and no
such German legislation shall contain
anything which would indicate or might
be construed to indicate that it was
issued in the name of or having the
approval of Military Government.
(Incl. 1 to ref. c.).

(3) Until such time as it is possible
to establish democratic institutions it
is sufficient for the validity of state
legislation that it be approved and pro-
mulgated by the Minister President.
(Incl. 3 to ref. c.).

(4) The issuance of legislation by a
Lander or its subdivisions is subject
to the prior clearance of the Office of
Military Government for such Land.
(Incl. 1 to ref. c.).

(5) Kreis legislation need not be
examined by Military Government
prior to its issuance but copies will
promptly be forwarded to the Office
of Military Government by the local
authority at the time of issuance. The
repeal of any such legislation which
is in conflict with the policies of Mili-
tary Government will be directed.
(Incl. 1 to ref. c.).

(6) All legislation will be judged on
the basis of the objectives sought and
not on the basis of the machinery de-
vised for their accomplishment. Com-
parable legislation to be adopted by
two or more states will however, so
far as feasible follow a common
pattern. (New.).

c. Judicial Functions.

Justice will be administered in Ger-
man courts in accordance with the
principles announced in Control Coun-
cil Proclamation No. 3. The admini-
stration of the judicial system is under
the control of the State Minister of
Justice, and its organization, compo-
sition and operation is provided for
by the “Plan for the Administration
of Justice in the U.S. Zone.” The ad-
ministration is subject to the li-

--- Page 14 ---
mitations imposed by Military Govern-
ment Law No. 2 and orders heretofore
or hereafter issued by Military Gov-
ernment, (Incl. 1 to ref. f.).

5. INTERSTATE COORDINATION.

The division of Germany into 4 zones
of occupation and the further division
of the United States Zone into 3 states
subject to no higher German authori-
ty creates the problem of effective
coordination and control within each
zone for the various ‘special admin-
istrative services which formerly came
under direct control of the central gov-
ernment. The various state offices re-
quire coordination with other state
offices performing similar functions.
This is particularly true in the field
of economics, transportation, communi-
cation, etc. To meet this problem a
Council of Ministers has been created
and a Joint Coordinating Staff for all
Lander and for the various national
administrative services has been estab-
lished with a Secretariat at Stuttgart.
Meetings of the Council of Ministers
will be held from time to time for the
purposes of exchanging ideas and ex-
periences, discussing plans for strength-
ening their respective government,
especially in the direction of super-
vision over the special administrative
services, and preparing a plan for the
Joint ‘Coordinating Staff to serve all
state governments and -~--alt: ‘national
functioning agencies. The Joint Co-
ordinating Staff will provide the ex-
change of information and studies ne-
cessary to keep all.aspects of German
Government in the United States Zone
working in union. Such. staff will be
composed .of German . functional .ex-
perts in the various fields, will: be
small and will in no sense be
considered a zone authority.
6. EXERCISE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENTAUTHORITY.

a) At the earliest possible date and
not later than 31: December, 1945,
Military Government authority over

1

German authorities will be exercised
at the level of the state governments

. and all instructions to German authori-

ties from Military Government authori-
ties will be through the Minister Pre-
sidents and the functional ministers
of their respective states. (Ref. b.),

(b) To complete the organization for
the coordination and control within
the United States Zone of the various
administrative services formerly under
the direct control of the German cen-
tral government and now the responsi-
bility of the 3 states, a regional gov-
ernment coordinating office has been
established as an agency of the De-
puty Military Governor. Additional
purposes of the Regional Government
Coordinating Office are to control and
supervise the German joint coordinat-
ing Staff, to approve or disapprove the
recommendations of the Joint Coord-
inating Staff which have been approved
through normal Military channels to
the U.S. Military Government per-
sonnel concerned and to insure that
approved recommendations of the co-

ordinating staff are carried out uni-

formly within the U.S. Zone. The
Regional Military Government coordin-
ating Staff and the relationship of the
Joint Coordinating Staff and the Re-
gional Government Coordinating Office
will'be the same as that of a state gov-
ernment to the Office of Military Gov-
ernment for such state. (Ref. d.)..

(ce) Military Government will, to the
extent available, render assistance in
the provision of necessary  trans-
portation and ‘communications facili-
ties, including the issuance of special
passes to the higher German govern-
mental officials.

IL.

1. If the German Lander governments
appointed by Military Government are
to be successful in the administration
of their respective Lander under the
procedure outlined herein and in ac-

--- Page 15 ---
cordance with United States policy, it
must be evident to all that they have
the full confidence and support of Mili-
tary Government.

2. It is believed that this can be
attained only when our own Military
Government controls are exercised
through the three Minister Presidents.
Within the field of Lander responsi-
bility, it is therefore essential that at
the earliest practical date and not later
than 31 December 1945, orders, in-
structions and interpretations of po-

licy by Military Government be issued,

to the German governmental machinery
by the Lander Offices of Military Gov-
ernment through the several Minister
Presidents. Such instructions should
pass to the lower elements of German
government through the German ad-
ministrative machinery. Copies should
be furnished to all of our field officers
below the Linder Off:ce of Military
Government for information so that
they may properly observe compliance

by the Germans with such instructions. .

Violations of policy, however, should
not be corrected through lesser Ger-
man officials, excent in cases of real
emergency, but will be reported by
our field offices to the Lander Offices
of Military Government so that
remedial measures may be required of
the Minister Presidents.

8. Prior to elections and subsequent
to elections for appointed officers, fu-
ture appointments of German officials
should be made by the Minister Presi-
dents, subject of course to the approval
of Miitary Government.. Minister
Presidents should also be given the
right of removal except that no official
appointed by Military Government
should be removed except for cause
and them only with the approval of
Military Government.

4. A constant effort must be made
to improve the transportation, com-

12

munication, and office facilities
available to the Lander officials. Spe-
cial passes should be given to the Mi-
nisters and such other key officials
as appear desirable to permit their
free and unrestricted passage through-
out the United States Zone. They must
be provided with sufficient dignity of
office to impress their responsibility
upon the German people.

5. In general, the instructions to Mi-
nister Presidents should be confined to
the fullest extent possible to the de-
lineation of policies and should avoid
detailed instructions as to the exe-
cution of such policies. The German
Lander Governments should be re-
quired to prepare and present plans
for execution of policy for the app-
roval of Military Government. The
action of Military Government on such
plans should be based only on the
compliance of the proposed plans with
Uneted States policy and not on its
views of the efficiency of the plan.
The efficiency of German government
is not in itself our responsibility ex-
cept as a lack of efficiency interferes
with the execution of approved United
States policy. A highly efficient Ger-
man administrative machine can not be
expected until the machine has gained
more experience in the administration
of government.

References

a. Letter Headquarters, USFET AG
014.1 GEC-AGO, subject coordination
of German Lander Governments and
Special Administrative Services (Son-
derverwal:ungen) :n the Ame-ican Zone,
5 October 1945.

b. Letter Headquarters, USFET, AG
014.1 GEC-AGO, subject Reorgani-
zation of Mititary Government control
Channels :in Order to Develop German
Responsibility for Self-Government, 5
October 1945.

--- Page 16 ---
c. Letter Headquarters, USFET, AG
014.1 GEC-AGO, subject, Admini-
stration of Mititary Government in the
U.S. Zone in Germany, 1 October 1945,
with inclosures,

d. Le‘ter, Headquarters USFET,
AG 822 GEC-AGD, subject, Regional
Government Coordinating Office, 2 No-
vember 1945.

e. Letter Headquarters, USIET,
AG 014.1 GEC-AGD, subject, Admini-
stration of Justice, 4 October 1945.

f, Letter Headquarters, USFET, AG
014.1 GEC-AGO, subject, Amendment
to Directive “Administration of Mili-
tary Government in U.S. Zone in Ger-
many, 7 July 1945”, 21 October 1945
as amended by letter, Headquarters,
USFET, same subject, 25 October 1945.

Analysis of Returns
of Political Activity Report

As the preceding article points out,
the expansion of the activitiy of po-
litical parties from Kreis to Land levels
comes after a period in which the par-
ties have succeeded in becoming well
grounded locally.

The Military Government Political
Activity Reports are the basis for the
chart: on the following page, which
shows that by November 1st political
organizations had been formed in 45
per cent of the 224 Kreise for which
reports had been received.

For the convenience of Detachment
personnel responsible for their com-
pletion, the following analysis is ar-
ranged in the form and with the head-
ings used in the Political Activity Re-
port:

"Names and character of political
organizations authorized during period
under review."

Political organizations formed by
November 1st fell into four main
groups: Communist and Socialist on
the left (including ANTIFA and other
small leftist groups), and Christian
and Democrat on the right (including
various smaller groups). The fact that
political activity is now being carried
on at Kreis level throughout large sec-

13

tions of the Zone, and that four main
groups seem to be emerging, clearly
underlines the necessity for carrying
political activity to the higher ad-
ministrative level now authorized. The
decision to permit political parties to
organize up to the Land level should
do much to clarify the political pic-
ture in the Zone and give added im-
petus to political activity.

There have been indications that in
the case of the SPD and the KPD
some contact has already been estab-
lished between the groups in the dif-
ferent Kreise and at different adminis-
trative levels. Therefore, the adoption
of the name SPD or KPD is more
than mere historical reminiscence; it
is indicative of a trend toward the
organization of these two parties on
a national basis.

The same cannot be said of the
other parties which have been organiz-
ed. There seems to be no connection
whatever between the various groups
calling themselves ANTIFA or using
any other leftist label. These groups
came into existence more or less
spontaneously with the beginning of
the occupation. Their members were,
for the most part, formerly members

--- Page 17 ---
‘of the SPD or KPD, and as these latter
parties proceed with their organization
the ANTIFA groups disappear. The
ANTIFA remains strong only in those
communities here there is strong
sentiment in favor of a united party of
the left, and such sentiment exists only
where Socialists and Communists are
near a numerical equality, as in Bre-
men. Elsewhere, the numerically su-
perior Socialists are avoiding collabo-

ration with the Communists, without, -.

however, going so far as to make a
complete break.

There is a zone-wide, indeed a na-
tion-wide, tendency for conservative
elements to group themselves in a party
with a confessional orientation or in
a Liberal-Democratic party. As yet,
both tendencies are very ill-defined and
the local groupings are weak and
chaotically organized. Only in Bavaria

does there seem to be a concerted ef-
fort to form a party of potential na-
tional significance, -in the Christian
Social Union or CSU. It seems to be
the intention of the leaders of the CSU
to enroll as members all whose po-
litical sympathies are to the right of
the SPD, including former members
of the Zentrum, the BVP, and various
other rightist parties.

At present the activities of the CSU
are confined to a few communities in
Bavaria. However, there is reason to
believe that it should expand rapidly,
at least throughout the area formerly
dominated by the BVP. Perhaps the
fact that the CSU has endeavored to
cover so much ground is its greatest
weakness. Within the administrative
directorate of the party there are fac-
tions at present in strong opposition
to each other; one with leftist in-

Note: Parties have been arranged by poltitical character, from left to right.

“ANTIFA” or other leftist anti-nazi organizations, include, all those groups which were
originally organized for the sole purpose of eliminating nazis and nazi influence. They are
composed, for the most part, of members who belonged, before 1933, to various parties of
the extreme left. In some cases they have joined the ANTIFA seeing in it a junified group which
might eventually replace other leftist parties ; in others, because it was at the beginning of
the occupation the only political organization existing in many localities.

"KPD" The German Communist Party. The principal features of its present Program are the eli-
mination of nazis, the acceptance of war guilt, and the reconstruction of Germany along demo-
cratie lines. At present it is making a very determined effort to increase its influence by adopting
the tactic of the United Front with the Socialist Party and by attempting to win over mem-
bers of the middle class and farmers. The extent of its affilation with Soviet Russia is unknown
at present, although it is presumed to be close inasmuch as many of its leaders passed the war
years there and were politically indoctrinated with Marxist-Leninist principles.

“SPD" 'The German Social Democratic Party The Social Democrats are also determinedly
anti-nazi but not altogether persuaded of Germany's collective war guilt. They, too, favor
radical democratization of German life during the reconstruction. They have, for the most part,
opposed the Communist United Front activity, except in cases where they find themselves
numerically inferior.

The Social Democratic Party has_close connections with the British Labor Party and the French
Socialists. Many of its pre-1933 leaders emigrated to London, Paris, and Zurich.

Christian “Social Union or .Christian Democrats", This groups includes all those parties which have
been influenced inthe formation of their program by. the former Center, Catholic Party. Most
of them now, although advocating Christian principles, are opposed to active participation,
ot the clergy in political affairs. The CSU, or Christian Social Union, the dominant party in
Bavarian poiitics, is the strongest of the groups.

"Liberal Democratic and other rightist’ parties. These are, for the most part, characterized by
@ negative attitude. That is they are opposed to. Communism and to all socialization. At
Present, there in no connection whatever between the various .groups and all are very
weakly organized.

a.
BVP — Bavarian Peoples Party. This group is a carry-over from the pre-1933 era. It has been
organized in several towns by persons who were formerly connected with it. Its program is
Christian and conservative. It is felt that when the Christian’ Social Union is authorized to
organize throughout Bavaria, it will probably absorb these groups, whose program in no way
differs from that of the CSU.

14

--- Page 18 ---
POLITICAL PARTIES AUTHORIZED
IN THE UNITED STATES ZONE GERMANY UP TO NOVEMBER 157

3 ~ o

a s gp &

28 FA ° . : w 8. ¢g

gs a 34 a

ne 8 es é 6 § BS 8 2 yg

as 1s) 6 i) © o> 3 @ o eso A 5 |

3& 8 gm 2 3 3S 82" 36 3% 8

ae 3°58 & £4 34 28 6 8 8

et § Ags 4aos3 $345 $3 = SP te

fen , # « B28 = 38 a 3 Es 3 82 3¢

3a 5 g 3 ; 5 4 6 g 5; YO

<§ & & 6 2383 & £ £3 23 28 2 £ Se 2
MAINFRANKEN .......... 6 5 F 18 25 9 36 2 36 23 22 95
OBER- UND MITTELFRANKEN.... 1 8 12. 2 1 24 42 16 38 40 40 30 30 = 100
NIEDERBAYERN UND OBERPFALZ . 1 2 5 1. 3 12 47 7 15 44 16 42 40 95
OBERBAYERN ........... 9 9 4 1 23 29 #13 46 «#423 «5% «628 «62382
SCHWABEN ..... eee 3 3 8 1 10 (21 5 24-12-41 20 10 50
BAVARIA... .......000. 2 2% 34 17 +4 #2 8F 164 50 30 144 35 143 125 8%
WURTTEMBERG .......... 2 5 6 1 2 16 22 10 45 16 63 22 #15 «68
NORTH BADEN ........... 5 6 6 2 19 13 8 61 13 61 13 13 100
NORTH BADEN-WURTTEMBERG . 2 10 12 #7 4 35 35 18 51 29 62 35 28 80
KASSEL... ......0.022004 1 9 10 4 3 2 18° 12 66 17 7 13 13 «100
HESSEN. ...........004 2 10 10 3 3 28 14 13 93 13 100 12 11 += «91
WIESBADEN ............ 12 15 13 4 44. 16 16 100 16 100 11 11 100
GREATER HESSEN ......... 3 31 35 20 10 99 48 41 85 46 89 36 35 = 97
BREMEN ....... ns i ar 3 12 5 5 100 5 10 5 5 100

U.S.ZONE «1... eee ee ee 8 73 8 44 4 19 233 252 114 45 224 51 219 193 88

15

--- Page 19 ---
clinations under the leadership of
Mueller, the other staunchly conser-
vative, under Schaeffer.

Under the column “Other Rightist”
parties in the table are included those
groups who have ill-defined or no pro-
grams, except that they are vaguely in
favor of “Reconstruction”.

"Data on sponsors and leading per.

sonalities; appraisals.”

The material which has been sub-
mitted in detachment reports on the
personalities in the various political
parties is very inadequate in most
cases. This may be due to the fact
that no strong personalities have as
yet emerged on the political scene, ex-
cepting those who are taking part in
the civil administration of the various
communities, many of whom are
generally known. It would appear,
however, that the vast majority of po-
litical leaders have an extensive back-
ground of anti-nazi activity, and many
of them have spent terms in concen-
tration camps. Their reliability, at least
where the parties of the left are con-
cerned, is unquestionable. On the other
hand, there are indications that certain
rightist groups are attracting former
nazi “fellow-travelers”.

Within the parties themselves it is
noteworthy that the great majority of
Socialist leaders are men of mature
years or advanced age. A recent So-
cialist congress in Niirnberg very much
resembled a “Last Man’s Club”.Some
younger figures are, however, begin-
ning to emerge. Notable among these is
the leader of the SPD in Offenbach.
Schumacher, the recognized head of
the SPD in the three Western Zones,
although a pre-1933 member of
the SPD, is young enough to carry
on very extensive activity for the party.

In the KPD it seems to be a matter
of policy to assign the younger and
more energetic members to positions
of leadership. The difference in this

16

respect between the two leftist parties
is striking, although the rank and file
of both are largely middle-aged
workers.

"Number and character of public
meetings authorized; number of atten-
dants at each; character of speeches and
any other significant developments.”

There is a wide degree of variation
in the U.S. Zone with respect to public
meetings, both in character and
attendance. A few detachments have
taken a very liberal attitude in
permitting party members to convene
as often as was deemed necessary, both
for organizational and propaganda pur-
poses, Other detachments have adopt-
ed the practice of limiting parties to
one meeting per week or per month.
The number of enrolled members of
the parties varies in direct proportion
with the number of meetings authorized.

In some areas rallies have been held
which were jointly sponsored by all
anti-fascist parties. The attendance at
these was, in some cases, as high as
two or three thousand, but the majority
of meetings have had an average atten-
dance of around 200, and there is even
‘some recent decline in this figure, as
the newness of political activity wears
away. It is to be expected that after
the initial enthusiasm has disappeared
public meetings will be attended only
by those who are actively engaged in
politics. The general public will be
contacted, if at all, by handbills and
other literature.

"Applications received on behalf of
speakers domiciled outside the United
States Zone.”

No detachments have recorded re-
ceiving applications from speakers out-
side of the U.S. Zone. However, it
is known that representatives of the
Central Committee of the SPD in Ber-
lin have travelled extensively in the

--- Page 20 ---
Zone and have made public or semi-
public appearances. The Berlin Com-
mittee is actively engaged in organizing
the Regensburg group of the SPD, and
this group seems to be the only one
in the U.S. Zone which does not recog-
nize the leadership of Schumacher. A
Socialist congress in Nirnberg was
also addressed by a representative of
the Berlin Committee, who was not
altogether favorably received.

It is noteworthy that delegates from
many communities in the U. S. Zone
travelled to Hannover to attend the
Congress of the SPD for the three
Western zones.

"Estimated number of members of
each political party; increase and reduc-
tion in members and apparent reasons
therefor.”

No exact statistics are available at
present on the membership of the
political parties. But it would appear
that in the Western Zone the SPD is
leading the field by a substantial mar-
gin, outnumbering the KPD about five
to one in the smaller communities and
two to one in the cities. In Bavar-
ia it is believed that the SPD will
acquire at least a plurality of the
voting strength in about a dozen of
the large cities, while the CSU will
take the lead elsewhere. But it must be
recognized in this connection that the
parties of the right are still badly
organized, and have made very little
effort to acquire members. A display
of energy on their part might very
much alter the picture given above.

"Review of monthly sworn statements
on funds and significant developments
in this regard.”

Only about a half dozen detachments
have submitted figures on the financial
standing of the political parties. In
every case the sums reported were

17

insignificant, and were usually con-
tributed by donation rather than by
regularly assessed dues which have
not yet been required by most parties.
It is highly significant that trade
unions, on the other hand, have
amassed considerable sums from paid
dues and initiation fees. (The Mann-
heim Allgemeiner Deutscher Gewerk-
schaftsbund has RM 183,618 in its
treasury.)

"Approximate volume of political
literature distributed and its general
character.”

Practically all towns of any size
have now had posted in them the bills
of different political parties, parti-
cularly the SPD and the KPD. No
attempt has been made in them to
set forth in detail the programs of
the parties. The posters are usually
confined either to the announcement
of forthcoming meetings or to anti-
nazi slogans and appeals to help the
victims of nazism.

"Authorization refused for formation
of political parties and carrying on of
political activity; reasons for refusal.”

Only in three or four instances has
authorization for political activity been
refused. Refusals were usually
motivated by the fact that one or more
of the personalities involved was a
former member of the NSDAP.

However, it is felt that the proce-
dure for obtaining authorization for
political activity is so complicated that
this in itself has acted as a deterrent.
And even where all the necessary steps
have been taken by the interested par-
ties, there is often a very long delay
before authorization is actually
granted. In some instances six weeks
or two months have elapsed between
first application date and final authori-
zation.

--- Page 21 ---
“Changes made in advisory groups
and appointive positions in the light of
observed trends in authorized political
activity.”

Advisory groups began to be used
extensively in the Zone about the same
time that political activities were first
authorized. At that time the
complexion of these groups was largely
conservative, and did not correspond
to the political trend which began to
develop. Some changes were then made
giving a somewhat more pinkish tinge
to the advisory groups, but on the
whole, it is still felt that they do
not adequately represent the present
known political sentiments. This
feeling was expressed, in a somewhat
different connection and on a higher
level, by the joint letter of the KPD and
the SPD addressed to Dr. Geiler in
which they asserted that they were
given inadequate representation in the
government of Greater Hessen.

"Recommendations regarding discre-
tionary requirement that party officers
and programs be confirmed by popular
elections.”

Military Government detachments
have made no recommendations in this
regard. However, the attitudes of the
parties themselves, at least of the SPD,
the CSU, and the KPD are known.

The SPD is at present debating
whether or not it should follow the

old-line Marxist program, based on the
conception of the class struggle, or

adopt a now, less dogmatic program,
more apt to attract the sympathies of
the middle class. The Berlin committee
seems to favor the former alternative,
while the Western Socialists are
swinging toward the latter. Both will
probably go their separate ways until
a representative national congress can
be convened to decide the issue on
the basis of the feelings of the majority
of the membership.

18

The CSU is likewise torn in a
struggle between right and left. The
issue here, too, can be resolved only.
by a national or regional convention.

The program of the KPD will not
be subject to revision by popular
election.

"Extent to which political activities
contribute to revival of democratic
procedures.”

Here again the Military Government
Detachments have not committed them-
selves. Our only information comes
from the German press and from Ger-
man political leaders. Since there is
very little scope at present for demo-
cratic procedures to be exercised in
political activities, the question can
be answered only by reference to
activities of a parallel nature where
such scope does exist, that is, in trade
unions. Here it is notable that
hundreds of elections of shop stewards
have already taken place and that they
have elicited from those participating
great enthusiasm and much favorable
comment. The election of public offi-
cials is not looked forward to with
the same degree of enthusiasm,
possibly because it is felt that no
matter who may be elected he will
still function merely as a tool of Mili-
tary Government. When this negative
attitude is overcome, it is to be
expected that the general public will
demonstrate much greater interest in
politics, and that there will be a
genuine revival of interest in demo-
cratic procedures,

Evidences of underground activity,
political, of any kind.”

It has been noted above that
unauthorized —_ contact has been
established between political groups at
different levels and in different zones.
In addition to this type of underground
activity there is very little else to

--- Page 22 ---
report. Insignificant groups of former
nazis have occasionally met, but they
seem to have no guiding plan or prin-
ciple. At present they constitute an
annoyance but not a menace. Anti-
American activity which is being
carried on at present appears to be
the work of a few disgruntled indi-
viduals rather than the result of any
organized political activity.

"Recommendations as to public offices
which might be filled by local elections
at an early date.”

Practically all detachments are in
agreement that the offices of Biir-
germeister and city council might be
filled by early popular elections. It
is suggested by some that the Land-
rat and members of advisory council
might also be elected. However, it is
felt that adequate safeguards must be
taken to prevent former nazis from
dominating the elections. Some detach-
ments suggest that all nazis in the
mandatory removal category be dis-
franchized, others all nazis of whatever
category.

Several detachments have pointed

out that the actual incumbents in

19

public office will be severely handi-
capped when elections come because
the population will hold them respon-
sible for the hardships which they are
at present suffering. It is felt that
if they are put entirely at the mercy
of the electorate they will be voted
out of office and there will be a
serious disruption of public admini-
stration as a result.

"Recommendations, suggestions and
general comment.”

The two problems with which the
Military Government Detachments are
at present most concerned are the
withdrawal of Military Government
functional activities and the coming
elections. A majority of the detach-
ments state that they feel Military
Government should not relinquish any
of its functions until after the January
elections. Present office holders feel
that they no longer can count on the
support of Military Government and
they have become very pessimistic
over the outcome of the elections. They
feel their chances would be much
better if the public could be persuaded
that they still have the support of the
Military Government detachments.

--- Page 23 ---
JEMOCRACY

Vs the “Police State“

To the German people, the police
have always represented the strong
civil arm of a traditionally authori-
tarian state. The role and function of
the German police as the executive
agent of the government were that
of controlling the people, not of serv-
ing them. This concept of the “po-
lice state” was both an old and ac-
cepted one in Germany, and therefore
difficult for Americans, raised in a
country where such a concept was
unknown, to understand. It is ex-
tremely important, however, that Mili-
tary Government officers recognize and
comprehend the significance of this
German concept. For its retention or
rejection by the German people will,
in a large measure, determine the cor-
responding failure or success of Mili-
tary Government to eradicate one of
the roots that nurtured the growth of
nazism and militarism in Germany.

Up until the nazi reign, the powers
of the German police, while extremely
broad, were still defined and limited
by law, the general police power being
derived from the General Prussian
Code of 1794. Broadly speaking, the
police were authorized to take all
measures for maintaining public safety
and order within the framework of
existing laws. Under the Weimar Re-
public, the democratic principle that
the police would confine their duties
to the maintenance of law and order
was introduced, although even then
the police continued to exercise special
functions in the fields of public health,
buildings, factory laws, etc.

While each Land maintained a strong
centralized police force, usually under
the Minister of Interior, no national
police existed in Germany prior to

20

This analysis of the German con-
cept of the “Police State” high-
lights the dangers of allowing it
to remain and shows how USFET
directives aim at smashing it.

1933. Under the Weimar Republic, na-
tional police control by the Reich was
limited largely to legislative acts which
placed enforcement responsibilities upon
the Land police, together with such
central control as was achieved through
the effective system of Reich financial
grants to the Lander.

With the advent of the nazis,
however, a national centralized Ger-
man police was established which was
to provide the fullest expression to the
“police state” concept. It began on
January 30th, 1934, when the
sovereign right to exercise police power
was transferred from the Lander to
the Reich. (Previously, the decree for
“Protection of People and State” of
February 28th, 1933 had suspended in
effect all civil liberties and personal
freedom). It was followed by the
creation of the post of Chief of the
German Police in the Reich Ministry
of Interior and consequently by the
centralization and control of all muni-
cipal and rural police forces and agen-
cies within Germany. It went so far
as to place fire brigades under police
authority, renaming them Fire Pro-
tection Police and equipping them with
firearms and military uniforms and
titles.

THE NAZIS’ INSTRUMENT OF TERROR

The history of the German police
system under the nazi regime as a na-
tional instrument of oppression and

--- Page 24 ---
terror is well known. “From anagency
used to ‘prevent dangers to public
safety and order’, the nazis built an
instrument to reshape the life of the
German people, to intervene in all
spheres of public and private endeavor,
and to remodel the German citizen
according to the new concepts of a
‘racially super; or society’.

The Gestapo was set up in April
1933 by Géring, who was then Prime
Minister of Prussia, to take over the
tasks of the former Prussian Political
Police. In this connection, it is an
interesting point to note that the Ge-
stapo, although its officials were
usually the most loyal and able Party
members that could be found and were
largely drawn from the SS, did not
constitute the party police. Sicherheits-
dienst (the SD Security Service) of
the SS was actually the party police
organization.

In April 1933, the existing political
police in the other Lander were, for
the time being, charged with the duties
of the Gestapo. Himmler, (who had
been appointed chief of Political Police
first in Bavaria and later in the other
Lander, including Prussia), by April
1934 was in effect Chief of the Ge-
stapo for all Germany. As a result,
the Gestapo, was then in fact, if not
formally, a Reich force.

When Himmler was appointed chief
of the entire German police force in
June of 1936, he combined the Gestapo
and Reich Kriminalpolizei to form the
Security Police. Heydrich was named
head of the latter. Following the
assassination of Heydrich, Kalten-
brunner was appointed to succeed him
and. became Head of the Security Po-
lice in January 1943. At that time,
the Security Police became Office IV
of the Head Office for the Security of

the Reich.
Thus developed the notorious Ger-

man police system, designed and em-
powered to serve faithfully the. in-

at

terests and purpose of the nazi gov-
ernment. The Gestapo was given com-
plete authority in the power of arrest
and punishment. Its police power, as
the expression of the nazi will, was
absolute and there was no appeal to
any other authority or court of justice.
Thus the national centralized German
police force was able to maintain in
secure. power the party dictatorship,
even against the later opposition of
powerful military and political leaders.

A HISTORY OF OPPRESSION

It was one of the chief Allied war
aims that this German police system
with its concept of the “police state”
be smashed, its police decentralized
and stripped of their wanton authority.
The history of oppression has shown
how the use of a centralized national
police power serves as the ready in-
strument by which an unscrupulous
administration might pervert and
perpetuate its power. The lesson of
the German police in that respect, as
it was in the case of Italy, Japan and
the police of all dictatorships, is both
terrifying and significant. It explains
why popular resistance, even if it had
been strong in Germany, could hardly
have hoped to succeed.

Accordingly, it.is the policy of the
United States as expressed in its di-
rectives that the centralized German
police system be abolished; and in-
stead, locally constituted police agen-
cies be established which shall be free
from command or supervision by any
national authority, or any other
authority outside of the governmental
unit it serves. Further, that the un-
democratic concept of the “police
state” be outlawed; and that the re-
created German police agencies be
made responsible to the chief local
civil official, subject to written law.
Also, that such ‘police forces operate
according to the democratic principle
that they are the.servants of thepeople

--- Page 25 ---
and exist only for the maintenance of
law and order and the safeguarding of
the public safety. The interpretation of
what measures constitute the main-
tenance of law and order and safe-
guarding the public safety is not for
the police to decide but rather for the
community as expressed in the laws
of the land.

Under U.S. policy and directives,
local control and responsibility for the
police goes beyond that established
under the Weimar Republic. It was
shown that the Weimar Republic per-
mitted financial control of the police
from the Reich and Land-controlled
police within the Lander. Also, the
rural Gendarmerie, as well as_ the
police in many important cities, were
Land-controlled. This strong Land cen-
tralization assumed great significance
both as a device for dominating the
people, as seen in Prussia, and later
for facilitating the shift of the police
control-apex from the Lander to the
Reich.

To prevent the use of the police as
an instrument of oppression without
responsibility to and control by the
people it should serve, the U.S. pro-
gram provides for specific safeguards.
Thus it abolished secret police agencies
like the Gestapo. It frees the local po-
lice department from command by any
authority, national or state, outside
the unit of local government which it
serves. It makes the appropriate local
officials completely responsible for all
police matters, from budgeting to re-
cruitment of personnel, under the
supervision of Military Government.
The formation of separate criminal or
security police agencies is also
prohibited. Under the former German
police system, the criminal police be-
came an independent, powerful force
which later was used as an adjunct to
the Gestapo. Such criminal investigation
units that are or may be set up will
be part of the regular municipal or

22

The U.S. program provides that
the police are responsible to the
chief local civil official. ?

rural police department, subordinate
to the force it serves.

In each municipality, the local mayor
is charged with responsibility and duty
of providing for a unified police de-
partment headed by a chief responsible
to him. Only in the special case of
the frontier control will police re-
sponsibility and control of the police
be vested in the Minister of Interior
of each Land.

Under the former German police sys-
tem, many governmental controls,
which in the United States are
normally performed by governmental
agencies concerned (i. e. health, build-
ings, food inspection, etc.), were per-
formed instead by the Administrative
Police (Verwaltungspolizei). This
practice served to centralize further
under the German police all regula-
tory power of government over the civil-
ian populace. This excess of regula-
tory power is considered very un-
desirable, and U. S. policy calls for
the transfer of all such functions not
of a proper police nature to those
governmental agencies to whom they
more appropriately and safely belong.*

MILITARY CHARACTERISTIC OF OLD
SYSTEM

An the end of the last war, Ger-
man militarists were quick to utilize
the German. police as a cadre for a
future German Army. Accordingly, the
German police were modelled into a
military organization, given military
training and equipped with many basic
miltary weapons. In order to prevent
their use again as a cloak for train-

*Section VIII, Part 2, Paragraph 4
of the July 7th Directive.

--- Page 26 ---
ing and building up a German Army,
the use of all military titles, insignia,
uniforms and saluting are expressly
forbidden. Military formations and
drills are likewise outlawed and no
firearms except those of a non-Ger-
man and non-automatic manufacture
will be authorized. In addition,
reserves and police auxiliaries are
prohibited, although special police
guards may be authorized by Military
Government to protect special installa-
tions such as fuel dumps and ware-
houses. Such guards will be selected,
trained and subject to discipline by
the local police chief, but they will
not enjoy the civil service privileges
of the regular police.

The United States has a democratic
tradition and an established police
system which reject any concept or
use of the civil police for the regu-
lation of the populace beyond that
necessary for the maintenance and pre-
servation of law and order. The idea
of a police force used to execute the
policies or selfish purposes of any
political party or tyrannical administra-
tion is abhorrent to the American
people and would not be tolerated.
In Germany, however, there has been
no such tradition of liberty, no such
concept of individual freedom from the
control of a “police state.” The Ger-
man police have always tended to
regulate and control every form of
human behavior and to take such

police measures as they deemed expe-
dient.

It is not difficult to see, therefore,
that under such conditions it would
be possible for a new form of nazism
and militarism to rise to power, em-
ploying the German police to execute
their despotic orders and suppress any
opposition that might arise. Nor would
it be difficult for the German police
to revert quickly to their old familiar
role and practices. That is why it
is so important that the system and
authorizing power that facilitated such
abuse of police power be thoroughly
eradicated. That is why secret and
political police agencies have been
abolished, the reason behind the de-
centralization of the German police,
and the establishment of locally con-
stituted police departments free from
higher governmental authority.

It is the responsibility of Military
Government, and more specifically, of
Public Safety officers to make certain
that U. S. policy and directives in
this respect are carried out and that
constant and continuing enforcement
be maintained to insure compliance
on the part of the German civil admini-
stration. Upon the success or failure
of such officers to do so will depend
largely the success or failure of Mili-
tary Government to inculcate in the
Germans the understanding of and
desire for individual liberty and free-
dom in which lie the salvation of a
democratic-minded Germany.

--- Page 27 ---
General

The JUBILAUMSBAU
at MARBURG

Publicly-owned treasures of art hold
something of the same importance in
European minds that the flag or the
the Declaration of Indepence have for
Americans, in that they are symbols
of national integrity and dignity. To
be able to see them again will help to
convince the German visitor that his
country can some day recover its
former standing as a leader in scholar-
ship and appreciation of the beautiful.

In this building, the Art Institute
of Marburg University, is now housed
the first important exhibition of master-
pieces of paintings belonging to this
country to be opened in Germany since
the end of the war. Marburg is a
collecting point for works of art re-
moved from insecure repositories. by
the Monument, Fine Arts ‘and Archives
organization of the U.S. Military Gov-
ernment.’ The pictures now on view
include possessions of incalculable val-
ue from the Rhineland and Berlin dis-
trict museums, hastily evacuated by
their owners to mines at Siegen and
Bernterode. The collective value of the
art assembled at Marburg cannot be
estimated, since the experts say that
if it were all put up for sale at one
time it would break the art market.

Some of the paintings have suffered
grievously from adverse atmospheric
conditions in the mines. The celebrated
Van Gogh portrait of Armand Rollin
was removed, just in time, in an al-
most unrecognizable condition. Expert
care has restored the painting to its

24

original beauty. This work, with many
other equally well-known nineteenth
century paintings, as well as the
glorious Watteau “L’Enseigne de Guer-
saint” (the shop-sign of the art dealer
Guersaint) and other old masters in-
cluding Boucher, Chardin and Cranach,
are now being admired by both mili-
tary personnel and civilians. The ex-
hibition has been received with great
enthusiasm by Americans and Germans
alike and serves to emphasize one pur-
pose of Military Government — the
preservation of the valuable elements
in German culture.

The Art Institute of Marburg is
known as the “Jubilaumsbau”, the
Jubilee Building, because it was opened
in July, 1927 when the university cele-
brated its. 400th anniversary. It -hous-
ed both the collections of thé university
and the lecture and concert halls, study
rooms and offices of the departments
and faculty members concerned with
the arts and archeology. The Institute
was conceived both as a tool for teach-
ing and as a source of enjoyment to
the general public. In this respect, it
resembles such American university in-
stitutions as the Fogg Art Museum at
Harvard, to which, indeed, it is some-
times compared in other respects by
visitors familiar with Cambridge, Mass.

One point of similarity, in spirit if
not in actual style, is its quiet and
dignified appearance, in harmony with
its surroundings but not slavishly imi-
tative of other buildings in the ancient

--- Page 28 ---
university. The Jubilaumsbau is, there-
fore, the more markedly original and
is an unusual example of post-war,
pre-Hitler buildings. It is neither in
the uncompromisingly modern style
(developed in Germany after the last
war by a group of architects who are
now mostly in various institutions in
the United States the “Bauhaus”

25

group, which in turn was originally in-
spired by Frank Lloyd Wright) nor
in the savage, spiritually proto-nazi
style of the post-war administration
building of I. G. Farben at Héchst.
The Jubiliaumsbau seems the product
of a rather timid good taste, com-
parable to the town hall buildings at
Stockholm. The nazi architects, des-

--- Page 29 ---
pising the real originality of the Bau-
haus, over-developed its studied sim-
plicity and, by making it blatant and
grandiose, created such bleak and
meaningless mausoleums as the Fiihrer-
bau at Munich.

The fact that war punctuates history
is nowhere more clearly shown than
in the great cultural void which arose
in Germany with its collapse last May.
Twelve years of national socialism and
six years of war have wreaked such
havoc in this country that it is im-

Transportation

The responsibility for effecting rail
and inland waterway transportation
movements in Germany after January
Ist will be turned over to the German
government officials and transportation
agencies, it has been announced by

USFET.

The supervision of the German
transportation system will be assumed
by the Director, Office of Military
Government, U. S. Zone.

The Minister Presidents, together
with the civil transportation agencies,
will be required to establish the
necessary organization and procedures
for the programming of civil
movements as well as the movement
of military personnel, supplies, com-
modities and other military traffic
ordered by the Theater Chief of
Transportation. The following priority
basis has been set up:

First: The movement of U. S. mili-
tary personnel and supplies and
commodities and equipment required
in the support of U. S. Occupational
Forces in Europe.

possible for the Germans to fill, in
a day or a year, this void; and it will
take some time for the German people
to acquire a focus in retrospect which
will enable them to see what is left
on which to build. By the work of
ICD and by such exhibits as this,
pioneering for a revival of the finest
in the German cultural tradition, the
Germans may come to known what
the peoples of the world hope and
expect to be the basis for the future
contributions of Germany to human
society.

Responsibility

26

Switches to Germans

Minister Presidents and_ civil
agencies will be charged with
programming both military and
civil movements under supervi-
Sion of O. M. G. effective Jan-
uary 2nd.

Second: The movement of other
personnel, commodities, supplies and
equipment of direct interest to the
United States or Allied governments,
including, but not limited to, displaced
persons, commodities or equipment for
reparations, exports to pay for
essential imports and shipment through
the U. S. Zone of personnel, supplies
and equipment for Allied governments.
When specifically approved by the
Director of the Office of Military
Government, movements of second
priority also will include programmed
or emergency movements of food, coal
and other essential items for civilian
use.

Third: Such authorized transporta-
tion facilities as may be available after

--- Page 30 ---
the requirements of priorities 1 and 2
have been met in full will be available
to the German authorities in meeting
the essential needs of the German
economy.

Soviet Repatriation

An instruction prohibiting employ-
ment by Germans, public or private,
of any Soviet citizens subject to
repatriation under the Yalta Agree-
ment has been issued by USFET.

The Letter directs that Oberbiirger-
meister and Landriate be advised that
only those persons who were
physically present in and citizens of
the Soviet Union on September Ist,
1939, and who were displaced from
or left the USSR on or after June
22nd, 1941, are to be considered Soviet
citizens subject to repatriation under
the terms agreed upon at Yalta.

Such Soviet citizens will be collected
and transferred to camps operated
under Soviet administration. All Soviet
citizens falling in this category also
will be transferred from camps
administered by UNNRA. The use of
troops to enforce such collection and
transfer is not authorized, but no
Soviet citizen subject to repatriation
under the Yalta Agreement will be
provided for after December Ist in
any displaced persons camp except
those under Soviet administration.

Soviet repatriation representatives
claim to have uncovered 18,919 per-
sons in the Eastern Military District
and 2,707 in the Western Military
District who are subject to repatriation
under the Yalta Agreement but are
employed by Germans in factories and
on farms.

Uniforms for Interpreters

A USFET letter authorizes all mili-
tary intelligence personnel used as in-
terrogators and interpreters to wear
a uniform, designating no rank, while

27

engaged in interrogative or investiga-
tive missions when the situation ne-
cessitates,

The metallic U. S. insignia will be
worn on the upper lapels of the jacket,
field, wool and on both sides of the
shirt collar when the shirt, wool, OD
is worn as an outer garment. Similarly,
civilian clothing may.be worn by such
personnel where the particular mission
makes such clothing desirable.

Commanders will not authorize
enlisted personnel to wear the above
uniform habitually, but only when such
personnel are employed on_ these
special missions.

Ration Scales

Ration scales for the 83rd rationing
period in the U. S. Zone of Germany,
excluding Bremen Port Command and
the U.S. Sector of Berlin, will be the
same as those prescribed for the 82nd
rationing period, it has been announ-
ced at USFET.

The 98rd period will commence De-
cember 10th.

Deviations from the rations
established for the 83rd period will
not be made without prior authori-
zation from USFET Headquarters.

Law 8 Interpretation
The following interpretation of Law
No. 8 has been released by the Legal
Branch of the Office of Military
Government, U.S. Zone:
“The question ‘has been
whether or not an employee of a
business enterprise, occupying a
supervisory or managerial position
and who in compliance with Law No.
8 is reduced to a position of ordinary
labor, is ‘removed’ from office so that
his property is blocked under the
provisions of Military Government
Law No. 52 and Par. 45 of General
Order No. 1 under that law. The
reduction will be held to constitute a
removal having that effect.”

raised

--- Page 31 ---
Voices of Experience

Apprehension of

German Suspects

The use of diplomacy, rather than
strong-arm methods or a display of
force, is recommended by Det. 1-830,
LK Alzenau, for rounding up German
suspects wanted for interrogation and
possible arrest.

Initially, an officer from the Detach-
ment detailed to apprehand an
individual set out with an MP in a
jeep, leaning heavily on the horn and
acting very much the soldier. By the
time they arrived at their destination
however, the hunted man had usually
left.

A later method adopted was for a
Military Government officer to go out
in a vehicle without the MP and
bring in the suspect. This showed
better results and was continued until
the services of the German police
would be utilized.

With no gasoline at his disposition,
the German policeman ordered to bring
in a given individual for questioning
resorted to the postal system. He
dispatched postcards to those he
wanted to see, asking them to be at
the Detachment office at a specified
time. The system has proven highly
successful, and to date no one has
resisted a written ‘invitation’ to put
in a appearance on a given date!

HELP FOR MINES
A check of German POWs, who
were formerly miners, on their return
to civilian life is looked upon in
Bavaria as a means of increasing the
labor pool in the mines,

28

Det 1-330, LK Alzenau, finds that
diplomacy rather than  strong-
arm methods is preferred in
rounding up Germans wanted for
questioning,

The Regional Mining Authority has
submitted a list of former German
coal miners who now are reported to
be in POW enclosures. Although a
survey of this kind was made three
months ago, it is believed that, by
having the proper agency check the
return of the men to civilian status,
many can be diverted to their former
place of employment. The return of
these experienced miners to the deep
shaft mines would have a favorable
effect on coal production.

ARMING OF POLICE

The arming of individual police in
North Baden has resulted in a crime
decrease, according to reports from
Military Government offices in that
area, Statistics indicate a crime
incidence comparable to former figures.

Two hundred sticks recently were
issued to the police of SK-LK Karls-
ruhe. These were manufactured in the
Bruchsal Prison shops by the inmates,
and itis planned to have each police-
man in North Baden equipped by the
end of the year.

A safety program also has been
inaugurated in North Baden with
satisfactory results. Numerous arrests
and convictions of pedestrians and

--- Page 32 ---
drivers charged with traffic violations
have taken place.

WELFARE FUND SUPPLEMENTED

The public welfare fund in LK
Feuchtwangen is being supplemented
with a share of the proceeds from the
recently-opened cinema there. This
added source of income has proven
of great assistance in meeting Feucht-
wangen’s heavy’ public welfare
expenses.

The movie theater, incidentally, is
the first to be operated in LK Feucht-
wangen in its over 300 years of
existence.

M. G. MISSIONARY WORK
The five officers of Det. H-288, LK
Pfaffenhofen, gave a series of talks
on the mission and work of Military
Government to the enlisted men of the
ist Bn., 60th Inf., on five successive
nights recently. It is felt by the
detachment that a much better
relationship between the troops the
populace and Military Government will

be attained through this means.

DEALING WITH SPEEDSTERS

A novel plan for dealing with speed
violators on the Autobahn is reported
by Det. H-288, LK Pfaffenhofen.

An excessive number of people have
been arrested for . speeding on the
Autobahn there, and a policy has been
inaugurated of permitting offenders to
make contributions to the Bavarian
Red Cross in lieu of being tried in
Summary Court.

UNEMPLOYED CLEAN UP CITY

The Public Health Department held
a “clean-up” day in SK Weiden re-

29

cently, at which time all unemployed
men and women between the ages of
16 and 45 turned out to clean up the
city.

A special effort was made to clena
out the many small streams, and it
is felt that a great improvement has
been made in the area’s general
sanitary conditions.

POLICE COOPERATION

The close cooperation of the rural
police of two Landkreise recently re-
sulted in the apprehension of a quartet
of robbers and showed what can be
accomplished when neighboring police
units work together.

Following a series of robberies in
LK Illertissen, located immediately to
the south of LK Neu Ulm, rural police
in the former notified the New Ulm
rural police of the crimes and that
the robbers had escaped in a northerly
direction.

The rural police in LK Neu Ulm
immediately set up a road block to
check all persons entering the area.
When one truck was stopped at the
check point, three of the vehicle’s oc-
cupants fled and another surrendered:
The rural police gave chase and noti-
fied the Kreis’ municipal police of the
situation.

The robbers fired some fifteen shots
at their pursuers in an effort to prevent
capture. The police, instructed not to
shoot except in self defense, then
returned the fire, wounding one man
and causing the surrender of a second.
The third was captured by Neu Ulm
Municipal police in Iller Forest near
the city.

--- Page 33 ---
German Reactions

German Political Leaders on

Denazitication

The first and most urgent appeal
made by the Germans to the
occupying armies, long before V-E
day, was the cry for differentiation
between Germans and Germans. The
small number of genuine anti-nazis
and the legion of those who because
of political misconceptions or partial
amnesia believed themselves entitled
to this attribute, expressed hope that
the occupation authorities would
establish a demarkation line based on
political considerations, and accord the
two groups thus established fundamen-
tally different treatment. When the
occupation authorities began to act in
this direction, however, by embarking
upon a program of denazification, the
cry was narrowed to an appeal for
differentiation between nazis and nazis.
The occupation authorities, themselves
aware of this need, took the first step
in this direction by issuing the direc-
tive which distinguished between those
Party members who had joined before
May 1st, 1937 and those who had joined
after that date. This provision, how-
ever, failed to bring satisfaction. Ger-
mans of all political creeds considered
the dateline as arbitrary and argued,
in addition, that many who had joined
before 1937 had been ignorant or ideal-
istic while most of those who joined
after 1937 were opportunists who
knew what they were getting into.
Who, then, was a nazi and should
be elimin&ted? Representatives of all
social and political groups agreed more
or less that the terms nazi and party

Ka

The material here presented was
originally published in Informa-
tion Control Intelligence Sum-
mary (ICIS). It is believed that
it represents the most compre-
hensive and representative sum-
mation of German reaction to
denazification that has appeared
to date.

member were not synonymous; that
justice could be done only by special
consideration of each individual case,
and that only Germans, under the
supervision of Americans, were quali-
fied to weigh the evidence and pass
judgement. Law No. 8 was the first
edict embodying all these require-
ments: Providing a chance to the non-
activists to clear themselves, it offered
redemption to the nazis who had not
been nazis at heart; and providing
for German composed committees and
appeal boards, it gave the Germans
a chance to judge their own fellows.

On the assumption that city mayors
and political leaders well acquainted
with the practical problems of the day
and sensitive to the currents of public
opinion, would be able to summarize
the merits and probable effects of the
new law. ICD investigators interview-
ed nine mayors and 24 political
leaders in seventeen cities and towns
in the Eastern and Western Military
Districts. Of the mayors, four were
SPD men, two belonged to the
Christian Social Union, one was a

--- Page 34 ---
member of the Liberal Democratic
Party and two were without party
affiliations. Of the political leaders,
14 were Communists, eight were So-
cial Democrats and two were represen-
tatives of the Christian Social Union.
Investigators were instructed to select
a high percentage of leftists because
they have always been in favor of
strong denazification, and, it was felt
that their reactions to the intensifica-
tion of the policy would be of partic-
ular interest. The 33 political leaders
were asked to express their views on
Law No. 8 and to summarize the
effects of denazification to date.

PRESENT ‘STATE OF DENAZIFICATION

All respondents agreed with the
basie principle of denazification.
Without exception, they were convinc-
ed that the elimination of nazis and
nazi influence was one of the prere-
quisites of political and economic
reconstruction.

The first and foremost’ yardstick for
measuring a man’s share in nazism-
membership in the NSDAP or one of
its affilatte organizations was
rejected as a reliable indicator by all
of the respondents exeept two Commu-
nists. Grimwald, KPD leader for the
Kreis Obertaunus, stated that with the
exception of about 10 per cent, all for-
mer Party Members could ‘safely be
considered nazis, and Béning, KPD lkea-
der in Heidelberg and former KZ
inmate, declared outright that party
membership was the true index of
nazism. “All who joined the party”,
said Béning, “no matter what their
particular reason may have been, knew
about the race theory, the persecutions,
the claim for Lebensraum and the per-
sonal ambitions of the Fihrer, all of
which meant war.” The 1937 dividing
line was rejected by all. Instead, there
was general agreement among the

31

interviewees, as’ among Germans ‘at
large (see above) that each case should
be judged by its individual merits.
Some Communists stressed that special
consideration should be given to age;
that young people should more readily
be given a change to redeem themselv-

es than older people.

RESULTS OBTAINED

Administration. About half of the
respondents in the Western District
felt that denazification of administra-
tion ‘had been adequate, if not even too
severe. Some Communist leaders, how-
ever, adhered to a_ different view.
Bock of Heidelberg claimed that
mayors were frequently using the ex-
cuse of indispensability to protect
friends and termed the “dilly-dally
attitude of mayors in regard to denazi-
fication of bigshots” a. passive protest
against, if not a sabotage of Allied
aims. Communist leader Rost of Offen-
bach also insisted that several politi-
cally most objectionable people were
still in important government jobs.
Schiefer, SPD leader of Munich, said
that it would take him more than a
day to make up a list of nazis still
in their city- government.

Business and Industry. There was
overwhelming agreement among the
respondents in both districts that busi-
ness and industry had by no. means
been cleared of nazis. The few dissen-
ters from this view were an SPD
leader for the Kreis Obertaunus, the
chairman of the Christian Democratic
Party for the Kreis Oberursel, and
Scharnagl and Miiller, CSU leaders
in Munich. Some respondents did not
commit themselves on this point;
others who were critical felt that
progress would soon be made.

The Church. The Church, almost all
observers felt, was adequately’ denazi-

--- Page 35 ---
fied, and the few who were somewhat
skeptical expressed disbelief that
cleansing measures would be taken.
Of whatever little criticism there was
of nazi influence in the church, the
larger part fell on the Protestant
Church. Friederich, KPD leader in Hof,
named a specific example of a Protes-
tant minister who had not’ been
discharged.

ADVERSE EFFECTS

Inefficiency. The Communists concur-
red with official US policy and insisted
that non-political questions, such as
indispensability in essential services,
should not even be taken into consider-
ation in the political cleansing pro-
cess, and in general, doubted the
validity of the argument that ineffi-
ciency was caused by denazification.
The mayors, however, complained that
inefficiency was the result of denazifi-
cation. Braun of Mannheim went so
for as to state that dismissals had
reached a point where he could not
carry on the administration of the city.
Treu of Nurnberg made an additional
point in this connection: White denazi-
fication crippled his administration,
Law No. 8, he claimed, made _ it
difficult for him to find replacements
since young people with the formal
education required had almost
certainly belonged to the NS Students
League. It was noteworthy, however,
that none of the mayors who
complained that denazification had
caused inefficiency, pleaded for the re-
tention of genuine nazis on the grounds
of straight expediency. Rather, they
complained that their administration
was hamstrung by the dismissal for
technical reasons of those whom they
considered worthy of their trust.

Injustice. Many of the respondents,
mayors and political leaders alike,
stressed the “injustices” that had
resulted from denazification. Braun of

32

Mannheim, in a letter to MG, stated
in this connection: “The population
ean endure misery, but it will not
endure injustice.” Klett of Stuttgart
stated that “some cases of dismissal
are such a gross injustice that I, an
anti-nazi of twelve years standing,
find myself compelled to jump to the
defense of nazis.” Such statements
from mayors and political leaders were
frequent.

Question of Democratic Procedure.
In criticism voiced by mayors and the
more conservative political leaders, the
word “undemocratic” cropped up
frequently. The word did not carry
the same connotation with all. Some
seemed to feel that to b2 democra ic
meant to be lenient and to forgive
and forget. Treu of Nurnberg said:
“Ninety per cent of Nirnberg’s inhabi-

tants welcomed the Americans as
liberators after twelve years of
Hitler oppression... The denazifica-

tion is the only thing which has made
the people feel disillusioned about de-
mocracy ...” Others, however, saw
the undemocratic qualities of the de-
nazification measures in the categoriz-
ing of individuals.

Social and Economic ‘Dislocation.
Most mayors believed that the denazi-
fication would have rather serious so-
cial consequences. Veit of Karlsruhe
claimed that 22,000 dependents would
have to suffer the consequences of
unemployment if the city administra-
tion were two-thirds denazified; dena-
zification would thus contribute to the
economic dislocation. Braun of Mann-
heim stated that he spent many
sleepless nights worrying about the
families who had lost their daily bread
through denaz:fication. Mayor Klett of
Stuttgart used an emergency appeal
(submitted to him in the presence of
an interrogator) to permit a “denazi-
fied” doctor to perform a delivery, to

--- Page 36 ---
point out to other social dislocations
caused by the cleansing process. The
fact that dismissees were not neces-
sarily breadless but in a position to
take on a variety of jobs was not con-
sidered by the birgermeister. A few
also pointed out that denazification
had had an adverse effect upon econ-
omy where owners of businesses, who
were themselves free of the nazi taint,
hesitated to resume operations for fear
of insurmountable. personal problems.

PUBLIC SUPPORT

The respondents estimated that
about 50 per cent of the public
supported the denaz:fication policy.
Walz of Heidelberg stated that in his
opinion 70 per cent favored denazifica-
tion in general, but that only 20 per
cent favored it as it was being carried
out at the moment. Kauper of Bayreuth
believed that most peop!e had favored
the idea but that “far reaching injusti-
ces” had recently made them antag-
onistic. Leftist political leaders were
somewhat more conservative in their
estimates as to how many people favor-
ed denazification. In answer .to the
question who the principal supporters
of denazification were, the conservativ-
es tended to express themselves in
terms. of a political division, naming
the leftists as the principal supporters;
while the leftists tended. more toward
a class division, naming the workers,
aided by. a small group of genuine
anti-nazi intellectuals. A lone dissenter
with this opinion was Rausch, chair-
man of the SPD in the. Kreis Ober-
taunus, who asserted that “all. fana-
tics” support the American denazifica-
tion policy, while “all quieter and more
humane_ people are against it.” He
thought, nevertheless, that half of the
people supported it. Rost, secretary
of the Communist Party at Offenbach,
ventured the opinion that all workers,
except those personally affected, sup-
ported denazification.. Drott, SPD offi-

33

cial in Offenbach, stated that business-
men were “definitely not interested” in
denazification.

CRITICISMS AND SUGGESTIONS

The general criticism most fre-
quently heard from mayors and poli-
tical leaders was that “the big shots,”
all in all, were not sufficiently affected
and the small fry had to bear the brunt
of the measures. The most common
suggestion was that a time limit should
be set for the.condemnation of those
found nazi, in order to deprive them
of the phychological basis for uniting
in anti-social gangs or organizations.
A unique suggestion was made by a
Communist leader who pointed out
that the natonalization of various
industries would greatly simplify de-
nazification, as it would deprive nazis
automatically of their positions of
power and influence.

RESULTS OF DENAZIFICATION

Most mayors, like most other Ger-
mans, voiced the fear that the dismis-
sed would become radical and, in pro-
test against the society that was reject-
ing them, join the Communists, This
claim, which has also been made
extensively by the rank and file nazis
in their whispering propaganda
designed to frighten bourgeois circles
into desisting from denazification, was
supported by the additional contention
that a good many Communist workers
had changed over to national socialism
after 1933 and would, therefore, be just
as apt to change back. Most of the
Communist leaders, however, did not
share this view. Some, Like Griinwald,
KPD leader for the Kreis Obertaunus,
pointed out that the KPD would not
even admit the denazified, at least not
for several years, while others stated
that former Party Members would not
join the KPD even if they could. This
view was summed up by Bock, Com-
munist member of the Landregierung

--- Page 37 ---
Baden and a shrewd. political observer,
with the statement that “as-a predom-
inantly bourgeois class they (the de-
nazified) cannot give their vote to a
party which they consider a menace
to their way of life.” In all, there were
many stray opinions on the subject as
to who would benefit politically from
the dismissal of nazis. Some thought
that they would join, or form, a new
radical party of the right; others
thought that they would split, the
workers turning to the KPD and the
bourgeois elements to the bourgeois
parties. Others again believed that, hav-
ing belonged to a radical party, the
party member would now calm down
and join a middle of the road political
organization. A few thought that de-
nazification would act as a brake to
political life in general, people being
afraid to identify themselves with any
party after having seen what happened
to members of the nazi party.

A propaganda-minded Communist
stated that the leftist trend in the com-
ing elections would have been more
pronounced if there had been no de-
nazification since the Communists have
now been deprived of the powerful
argument: “Look, this or that nazi is
still continuing in his powerful poa-
sition.” In general, no. definite trend
emerged from the answers except. that
those. who predicted that. dismissed
nazis would turn Communist, expected
that denazification would result in
considerable Communist gains at the
elections if party members
permitted to vote.

were

THE POLITICAL FATE. OF THE

DISMISSEES
The question as to whether those
who had been nazis should be

permitted to vote in the coming elec-
tions was unanimously answered with
a stern “No” by all respondents in both
districts, with the exception of the
two Christian Social Union Leaders.

34

The remarkable point about this com-
plete agreement was, however, that the
verdict denying the former party mem-
bers voting rights was arrived at by
the different, groups as a result of
diametrically opposed reasoning and
motives. The conservatives felt that
voting rights should be witheld from
the former nazis because they would
vote Communist; while the leftists
wanted to refuse them the right to vote
because, in their opinion, the party
members would vote for the most
rightist and reactionary party on the
ticket. Although almost all respondents
wanted to keep the denazified from
voting, none wanted to disenfranchise
them for good. Time limitations sugg-
ested ranged from one to five years.

The doors of the political parties
will be closed to the activists, accord-
ing to the statements of the majority
of those interviewed.

LAW NO. 8

With the exception of the Christian
Social Union representation in Munich,
all respondents expressed a favorable
view of Law No. 8 in general. The
main grounds on which the decree was
favored were: (a) that it extended de-
nazification to a field hitherto un-
touched, thus making denazification
complete in scope (although excepting
the church, as some pointed out, par-
ticularly the protestant church); ‘and
(b) that itis a definite improvement in
the methods of denazification because
it corrects two previous weaknesses —
rigidity of application without con-
sideration of individual circumstances
and lack of German participation in
the denazification. process. Commenting
on the latter feature, Hiilsenbeck, KPD
spokesman of Stuttgart, Director of
the Labor Office, said:

“By giving Germans a share in the
denazification, the Americans have
restored to the Germans the faith in
themselves. which they had lost.”

--- Page 38 ---
Bock, KPD member of the Baden
Landregierung, believed that “this law
shows that the Americans have learned
from past mistakes. It should have
been law No. 1.” ‘

The general agreement on _ the
desirability of the law, however, was
obviously not the result of similar
opinions among the more conservative
Birgermeister and the more radical
politicians. The point at issue, of
course, was which Germans would do
the denazifying. Respondents split on
the question of who should compose
the German committees. The conser-
vatives were in favor of keeping party
representatives out and putting “re-
liable, respected professional people”
on the committees. The Communists,
however, felt that all parties should be
represented in addition to the profes-
sional people. Trade Union represen-
tatives on the committees were favored
by all respondents. It was certain that
those who considered denazification too
harsh and indiscriminate hoped that
with jurisdiction partly in German
hands the cleansing process would be-
come milder, while those who were
impatient with denazification and con-
sidered it inadequate, hoped that the
process of elimination would become
more rigorous as well as more just —
and both sides realized that whether
their hopes would be fulfilled depend-
ed largely on which Germans would
be selected for the job.

There was hardly any negative cri-
ticism of the law itself. A technical
objection was raised by Klett of Stutt-
gart who stated that with the burden
of proof resting on the defendant, many
defendants who had to prove that they
had not been activists would find them-
selves in a difficult position since it
is hard to furnish such negative proof,

35

POLITICAL REACTION TO LAW. NO. 8

Most of the respondents believed
that the law had popular support. This
view, however, was in sharp contrast
to findings by 6891st District Infor-
mation Services Control Command in
an investigation of general population
reactions in the Western District, and
in opposition to other intelligence from
various sources. Interogees, nazis and
non-nazis, have condemned the law as
unjust and designed to cripple German
industry. In view of the fact thatthese
investigations were made soon after
the promulgation of the law, it may
tentatively be assumed that many Ger-
mans reacted so unfavorably because
they had not properly understood the
law. It seems that they had not yet
been’ informed of the provision of ap-
peal and, in addition, did not realize
that the law differentated between nom-
inal nazis and activists.

In all, it may be said that despite
the initial, unfavorable reception bas-
ed, no doubt, on inadequate knowledge,
the spirit of Law No. 8 comes closest
of alllaws issued so far to the spirit of
those Germans who on the strength of
their past experience and present out-
look may be regarded as the nucleus
of constructive and democratic forces
in post-Hitler Germany. Its differen-
tiation between must-nazis and activists
and its provision for German judges
correct the faults which, according to
intelligence sources, German anti-nazis
considered the most serious in the de-
nazification program. Random investi-
gations of some of those who will
be affected by the law, conducted by
6871st District Information Services
Control Command, revealed, however,
that party members still feel that they
are being wronged at every turn since
they consider themselves in no way
guilty of any crime.

--- Page 39 ---
Press Com ments

WAR TRIALS

ast -arsamaaat

Seen as Historic Landmark

With commentators stressing their
significance as a historic landmark in
the avoidance of future periodic wars
and as an important step in the re-
education of the German people, the
Nirnberg trials continued to command
wide interest during the week. Proceed-
ings were well covered by press and
radio, and the trials provided the topic
for many editorials.

Comment. on the military occupation
of Germany emphasized the difficulties
of the Army’s task, due to such factors
as rapid redeployment, and differences
in policy between the vorious zones.
Plans for replacing Military Govern-
ment by civilian authority were
generally welcomed as a logical move
in the discharge of our post-war
responsibilities.

In his opening statement at Nirn-
berg, said The Washington Post, Ju-
stiee Jackson “did much to demolish
whatever lingering doubts that remain-
ed in the mind of reasonable men
regarding the trial of the nazi leaders.
Beyond punishment of the defendants
now before the bar of justice, Justice
Jackson saw a far greater purpose
in the trial, a purpose which may make
the proceedings at Nurnberg a land-
mark in history. ‘The ultimate step
in avoiding periodic wars’, he explain-
ed, ‘is to make statesmen responsible
to law’. The manner in which the trial
is be‘ng conducted, the elevated et itude
of Justice Jackson himself, the deter-
mination with which all the officials
concerned are going ahead with their

36

appointed task, all give the hope that
Niirnberg may be a long step in the
achievement of that aim”.

In a dispatch to The New York Her-
ald-Tribune, William L. Shirer expres-
sed the view that the trials may prove
to be “the first great step in the re-
education of the German people”. A
more critical note was sounded by Vic-
tor Bernstein, correspondent of PM,
who declared that “as a propaganda
weapon against nazism and for democ-
racy, this trial is already largely a
flop. The one group of people in the
world who have most to learn from
this trial and for whom it ought to
mean the most are getting the least
amount of information about it. I refer
to the German people themselves. Of
more than a score of licensed German
newspapers in the American Zone,
only five have been permitted to send
reporters to the trial”.

In an article in The London
Spectator, Norman Bentwich pointed
out that the trials are not “simply
or purely a judicial process, but
also an international Act of State.
They are designed to demonstrate
the application of the moral law to
international relations . .. And in this
supreme case, creating a new crimi-
nal responsibility and a new jurisdic-
tion, the voice of humanity can be
heard as well as the voice of the
statesmen and the jurists”.

While comment of occupation
policies continued to show a critical
trend, Anne O'Hare McCormick in

--- Page 40 ---
The New York Times pointed out that
the office of Miitary Government, U.S.
Zone, “is charged with an assignment
infinitely harderthan any military mis-
sion. It is striving — for the most part
with scrupulous fidelity to the Pots-
dam Law, which is the Bible in the
American Zone — to do something
without precedent in history. Under
the most adverse circumstances in an
atmosphere of incredible hopelessness,
it is trying to change the mind and
transform the economic structure of
a great nation”.

According to The Washington Star,
“the basic cause of the troubles which
have arisen is the unanimity principle
adopted for the Allied Control
Council set up to administer Ger-
many”. Another newspaper, The
Newark News, asserted that “lack of
a definite policy is hampering the
restorative work of our occupation
army in Germany. How can officers
and men, charged with enforcing the
American program, persuade anti-nazi
Germans to accept positions of leader-
ship when the support on which they
lean so heavily may abruptly be with-
drawn? The rapid demobilization of
our forces is largely due to political
pressures. There is from families of
men who have long overseas duty and
from the men themselves a compelling
and an understandable demand for
quick return”.

Military Government policy-making
executives in the U. S. Zone “are in
a state of uneasiness bordering on
fright”, declared Edd Johnson in a
dispatch to The Chicago Sun. “They
are uneasy about the German popula-
tion. They are uneasy about our rela-
tions with the Allies. But more’ than
anything else, they are uneasy about
what you people at home will say
about the job they are doing”.

If the occupation is. to be a long
one, said The Springfield Union, “it
becomes increasingly evident that the

37

inilitary force we maintain in Germany
should be composed of men who are
interested in that kind of work and
express a specific desire to remain
abroad. ... It is clearly the job of the
War Department to build up an occu-
pation force of high caliber with such

men”.

Occupation Alternative

Citing history to prove that mili-
tary occupation cannot succeed, an
anonymous member of the RAF, in
an article in the November issue of
Harper’s, presented an alternative to
the maintenance of large military
forces in the U. S. and British Zones
of Germany. Following total disarma-
ment, decision by a commission of ex-
perts as to what industries Germany
is immediately and permanently to
forego, and the establishment of a
system at the frontiers for the control
of German exports and imports, the
Harper’s article proposed the organi-
zation of a mobile task force, made
up of highly trained personnel, with
the right of entry into laboratories,
factories, warehouses and similar in-
stallations in Germany.

Back of this, under the proposal,
would be a powerful force, stationed
outside Germany, on the frontiers of
Holland, Belgium, Denmark and
France. This military organization
would be “the fastest force the world
has ever seen”, and from time to time
units of this foree would demonstrate
its strength to the Germans by rapidly
“driving through their country and out
again”. : :

“Let us make no mistake in think-
ing that.we: can. coccupy. a. :country
and disclaim responsibility for its con-
dition,”. the. Harper’s article warned:
“However much the British and Ameri-
can Governments may protest that they
have delegated ‘responsibility to the
Germans, the armies of occupation are
the ultimate power and nothing would

--- Page 41 ---
persuade the Germans that the power
does not entail ultimate responsibility.
And although we shall get little credit
for any recovery in Germany, we shall
certainly not avoid the blame for the
failures that are inevitable and for
the suffering that they will bring. The
Weimer Republic took over an inheri-
tance of disaster last time. The Ameri-
can and British armies are accepting
an inheritance 50 times as terrible”.

Military occupation, the article said,
though it “may  castigate the
vanquished, degrades the victor”, while
sabotage and “dirty underground
tricks” tend to undermine the morale
of the occupying forces. Unless a sub-
stitute for large military garrisons is
adopted, it warned, “the subtle, senti-
mental appeal of the Germans, together
with the easy-going nature of our
people and the natural disinclination
of any decent man to stay where he
isn’t wanted, will make the occupation
a failure and the peace a shorter one
than last time”,

German Arrogance

Correspondents in the U. S. Zone
have recently directed attention to a
resurgence of arrogance among the
German civilian population. Seymour
Freidin, in an article in The New York
Herald-Tribune, for example, .stated
that “there are unmistakable - signs
that a considerable portion of the. Ger-
man civilian population has regained
some of its propagandized arrogance
and superiority it manifested toward
other peoples before the fall of the
Reich”.

Another correspondent, Edward P.
Morgan of The Chicago Daily News,
writing from Berlin, stated that re-
ports from scattered parts of the
American Zone “show a_ noticeable
change from the docility among the
civilians which prevailed during the
summer to a surlier, bolder attitude”.

38

Drew Middleton of The New Iork
Times also found evidence of a similar
trend “The German attitude toward
the American occupation forces has
swung from apathy and surface friend-
liness to active dislike”, he said in a
recent despatch. “According to an
American Military Government official,
this is finding expression in the orga-
nization of numerous local anti-Ameri-
can organizations throughout the Zone
and in a rapid increase in the number
of attacks on American soldiers”.

Change in Command

Generals George C. Marshall and
Dwight D. Eisenhower received high
praise from the nation’s press for their
wartime achievements following the
announcement in Washington that the
latter has been nominated for Chief
of Staff.

The Philadelphia Inquirer said, in
congratulating General Eisenhower on
his appointment, that “no man in our
memory has better deserved the
honor”. Another typical comment was
that of Walter Winchell, who praised
Eisenhower “as a humanitarian who
knows what the war was fought for
and is battling to hold our precarious
peace”, ; :

The job of Gen. Joseph T.. McNar-
ney, new Theater Commander and
member of the Control Council,
‘Gnvolves issues of major and delicate
importance”, declared Bill: Costello of
CBS in a recent broadcast. “The fact is
the Berlin Control Council has become
the focal point for a see-saw game of
power politics which may determine
the future stability of the European
Continent”.

Random Comments
“Reports of delays, waste and ineffi-
ciency by UNNRA -and of misuse of
this agency for political ‘purposes
point to situations that should be cor-

--- Page 42 ---
rected promptly, but do not. lessen,
the need for relief and rehabilitation.
As Herbert H. Lehman, Director Gen-
eral of UNNRA, pointed out in a
recent address, the longer it takes the
liberated areas to recover from the
effects of war, the more it will cost
us in dollars and cents. It is to our
interest, as well as to that of suffering
millions, to speed Europe’s recovery
and restore her to a position of politi-
cal and economic stability”. Edi-
torial in The Dallas News.

“At every turn, the American Presi-
dent and the British Prime Minister
are faced by the rock-like fact that
until a thorough political settlement
between Russia and the Western Pow-
ers is effected, no saving answer can
be found to the Sphinx-like riddle of
the atomic bomb and other new wea-
pons not less terrible in their cumula-
tive effect”. J. L. Garvin in The London
Daily Telegraph. *

“Most Military Government officers
with whom I have talked during this
tour of the U. S. occupation zone be-
lieve we are being too harsh on the
nazis. These officers are decent, demo-
cratic Americans. They are opposed
to nazism and believe it was respon-
sible for the war. But they have been
given a job to do, and denazification,
they believe, makes that job unnece-
sarily difficult. The job of these Mili-
tary Government officers is to clear up
the city or the country to which they
have been assigned, to get it running
again and hand it back to the Ger-
mans.” Edd Johnson in The Chicago Sun.

* *

As the result of Quebec, two emer-
gency directives were issued to the
British and American armies. The first
expressly forbade any and_ every
economic rehabilitation except such as
might be found necessary to prevent
unrest and starvation. The second en-
joined non-fraternization. Men who

39

were working in SHAEF last autumn
have described to me the stunned
stupor of the experts when they receiv-
ed these orders. Everyone knew that
the first of these meant starvation
and disease not only in Germany but
throughout Europe, and that the sec-
ond would very soon break down and
in the meanwhile would produce, in
practice, non-co-operation by Military
Government officers, not with Germans,
but with German anti-Fascists.. Quebec
was the zenith of the ‘realist’ Anglo-
American policy which sacrificed every
principle of morality and commonsense
in the passion for revenge and the
search for an Anglo-American security

based on power politics.” — Polycritic
in The London New Statesman and Nation.
* *

“There is no doubt that most Ger-
mans feel sorry for themselves at this
point. Few of them pause to consider —
or would care much if they did — that
the people suffered much more during
the last two winters in nazi-occupied
Poland, in most of Russia, in the
partisan islands of resistance in Yugo-
slavia and in Italian cities like Naples
and Rome and Milan. Even in liberated
Paris, last winter was far tougher than
it was in Berlin, and was, in some re-
spects, as bad as this winter is going
to be here.” — Russell Hill in dispatch
to The New York Herald-Tribune from
Berlin.

* *

“The problem of the expelled Ger-
mans is certain to overshadow the Ger-
man scene for a long time to come. It
is an unpleasant, but a fact, that the
protests of the Western Powers against
the immediate expulsions of Germans
from the lands of the Oder and the
Neisse as well as from the Sudeten-
land have not been effective. The ex-
pulsions go on; and fairly soon they
may be completed. The anti-German
mood in Eastern Europe has probably
been stronger than the sense of decency

--- Page 43 ---
of peoples and governments alike. But
there is no use in crying over spilt
milk and the milk was spilt at Pots-
dam, where the Oder-Neisse frontier
was accepted de facto. The question
which now arises is how to deal, at
least in the short run, with the sur-
plus population that has been carried
into Germany, or to put it more ac-
curately, into the Russian Zone of Ger-

many.” The London Economist.
* *

“The trial of General Yamashita in
Manila has produced as foul a tale of
savagery as is recorded in all history.
But the responsibility goes beyond any
single Japanese General, however bru-
tal. For this primitive savagery is the
deliberate product of the whole Japa-
nese political, religious and military sy-
stem, which deliberately extirpated all
‘softening’ influences of both Oriental
religions and Western democracy and
embarked on a ‘rebarbarization’ of the
nation as the best preparation for war
... For that system, the whole Japa-
nese nation, from the Emperor down-
ward, must accept responsibility and
though a moral re-education of the Ja-
panese nation will present special diffi-
culties, at least all the outward sym-
bols of that system can and should
be removed”. Editorial in The New
York Times.

*

“The United States cannot demobi-
lize all the men who served during
World War II, make no further pro-
visions for a standing army and still
assume its share of the burdens which
have come with peace and protect its
own future. There should be a stand-
ing army of sufficient size to carry
out to the last letter the terms which
were imposed upon Germany and Ja-
pan. If we fail to do this, we run
the risk not only of losing the peace,
but of fertilizing the battlefields of
future wars”. Editorial in The Houston

Chronicle.
* *

40

“This city’s biggest industry at the
moment is the manufacture of anti-
Soviet stories and the production has
reached the point where export is pos-
sible in wholesale lots”. Victor Bern-
stein in a dispatch to PM from Berlin.

* *

“The mystery surrounding the de-
lay in publishing the Italian armistice
terms is certainly not lessened by a
perusal of those terms. The trouble
was that the document was no sooner
signed than it was obsolescent. Here
we undoubtedly have the root cause
for the long delay in publishing the
terms of the armistice. Yet the fact
must be recognized that this secrecy
played right into the German hands
by giving them the opportunity to
broadcast fantastic reports as to just
what the armistice did contain. How
often has it to be demonstrated that
secrecy doesn’t pay?” Editorial in the
Washington Post.

* *

“The election results in Hungary by
no means solve the terrible economic
problems which that country faces. But
the fact that a free election can be
held at all in the heart of Europe
these days should be an encourage-
ment to genuine Democrats every-
where”. Cincinnati Times Star.

* *

“Why are relations between Russia
and the Western Powers strained?
Why, instead of mutual confidence,
are there ill-concealed suspicions? The
plain truth is that Russia’s foreign
policy today is based upon fear. Rus-
sia finds it hard to forget a fact which
we find it hard to remenber; the fact
that from the day when Disraeli came
from Berlin crying, ‘Peace with Honor’,
the policy of all the Western Powers
until Chamberlain returned from
Munich crying, ‘Peace in Our Time’,
was to appease Germany at Russia’s
expense”. London Daily Mirror.

--- Page 44 ---
(Personnel Data

QUALIFICATIONS jor CIVILIAN Joss

Personnel qualifications for civilian jobs at Regional level of Military Government
are described in these briefs. Qualifications for additional posts open to Military
Government personnel will be published in forthcoming issues of The BULLETIN.

INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT
SPECIALIST — CAF-13
(Base Pay Plus Overseas —
$7,787.50)

Must have capacity to effect the re-
organization of all German Industry
in a Land, and to make decisions on
which plants shall be allowed to re-
sume business, to define potentially
dangerous or useless enterprises, and
to guide the enforcement of industrial
Allied policy. He must be able to in-
sure that rehabilitated German industry
is vulnerable to blockade and bombing
and susceptible to Allied control. Must
have had experience or training in
formulation and enforcement of po-
licies and directives governing indust-
rial control and force recognition and
gbedience of Allied policy. Some ex-
perience in liaison with French, Eng-
lish and Russian occupation forces is
desirable.

The positions of Staff Member, Staff
Assistant and Staff Aide in this Sec-
tion also are available with relatively
lesser degrees of responsibility at CAF
grades 11, 9 and 7 and base pay plus
overseas salaries of $5,375, $4,550
and $3,725, respectively.

MINING MANAGEMENT
SPECIALIST — CAF-13
(Base Pay Plus Overseas —
$7,787.50)
Must be thoroughly acquainted with
the activation, directing and control
of mines, quarries and plants for ini-

41

tial processing of mineral resources.
Must be able to effect certain liaison
in connection with exchange of minerals
on an inter-zonal basis. Under general
direction of function head must be
able to prepare and enforce technical
directives on mining and set policy
under Allied over-all rehabilitation
plans. This dictates the capacity to
exact strict compliance from govern-
mental officials, mine operators, en-
gineers, and workers. Should be ex-

‘perienced in liaison with Allied offi-

cials as well as with other sections
within the economic structure. Should
be a mining engineer with some ad-,
ministrative experience.

The position of Staff Member in this
section at CAF-11, base pay plus over-
seas at $5,375, is also. available.

PETROLEUM, OIL AND LUBRICANTS
SPECIALIST — CAF-13

(Base Pay Plus Overseas —
$7,787.50)

Must be thoroughly familiar with
procurement, conservation, distribution
and allocation of priorities on all POL
and be able under the very general
direction of the economies head to
formulate and execute policy on these
subjects. Must be able to estimate
needs, to prepare and enforce detailed
administrative and technical direct-
ives and to co-ordinate with other func-
tions of the OMG in matters regard-
ing POL. Extensive experiences in li-

--- Page 45 ---
quid fuels and lubricants is highly
desirable.

The position of Staff Member in this
section, CAF-11, base salary plus over-
seas, $5,375, is also available.

STAFF MEMBER-ENGINEER — P-4
(Base Pay Plus Overseas —
$5,375)

Selection of individuals will be on
the basis of general, over-all ex-
perience in mechanical, electrical, ci-
vil, industrial and related engineering.
Specific experience in public utilities,
industry, mining and POL and a degree
in; engineering will be qualifying.

JUNIOR STAFF AIDE-ENGINEER — P-1
(Base Pay Plus Overseas —
$2,900)

Degree in mechanical, electrical, ‘ci-
vil, industrial and/or related eng-
ineering, or six months successful re‘at-
ed experience in Military Government
or Civil Affairs will be regarded as
qualifying. Must have experience in
office’ management, routine reporting
and statistics.

STAFF MEMBER-ECONOMIST — P-4
(Base Pay Plus Overseas —
$5,375)

Must be broadly experienced in ge-
neral, over-all economics and/or bus-
iness; will be assigned wherever work
load indicates a need, and experience
as outlined for regular Staff Member
for commerce and trade, price control,
and rationing and allocations and re-
quirements will qualify. College degree
in economics desirable.

STAFF ASSISTANT-ECONOMIST — P-3
(Base Pay Plus Overseas —
$4,550)

General, over-all experience in field
of economics, public and private, re-
quired. Experience or training should

42

have developed capacity to evaluate
controls, draft inventory and reporting
systems and administrative procedures.
Should have extensive statistical ex-
perience or training. College degree
in economics desirable.

JUNIOR STAFF AIDE-ECONOMIST —
. P-1
(Base Pay Plus Overseas —
$ 2,900)

College degree in economics or relat-
ed field, or six months successful ex-
perience in Military Government or
Civil Affairs in economics or admini-
stration. Experience should embrace
reporting, statistics and office manage-
ment.

COMMERCE TRADE AND
MANAGEMENT. SPECIALIST —CAF 13
(Base Pay Plus Overseas —
$7,787.50)

Broad experience and training in
complete control of all wholesale and
retail firms not specifically under
another functional head, and in over-
all regulation of intra-regional com-
mercial, business and economic activity.
Must appreciate Allied policy for
rehabilitation of small industry and
co-operatives and have the capacity to
plan their reonganization. Must have
demonstrated capacity to formulate
detailed policy on very general direct-
ives from higher authority, to prepare
and enforce detailed technical and ad-
ministrative directives on reorgani-
zation, licensing and liquidation of
business firms, and to promote re-estab-
lishment of wholesale and retail outlets
for essential consumer goods. Ex-
perience should embrace field in-
vestigation and inspection.

The position of Staff Member in this
section with lesser degree of responsi-
bility but requiring similar background
is available at CAF-11, base pay plus
overseas, $ 5,375.

--- Page 46 ---
TRADE MANAGEMENT
SPECIALIST — CAF-13
(Base Pay Plus Overseas —
$7,787.50)

Experience for this position will have
emphasis on capacity to negotiate free
trade among Allied and American-held
territories, and will embrace clearance
of shipments of restricted items, fa-
miliarity with German disposition to
“export” among its own Lander on a
barter basis, effecting agreements to
overcome restricted trade, investigations,
reports and recommendations concern-
ing trade with Russian-occupied areas,
Czechoslovakia, Switzerland, etc. Broad
experience in inter-state commerce and
trade, and knowledge of one or more
languages — French,Russian, German —
are highly desirable.

The position of Staff Member in this
section is also. available at CAF-11,
base pay plus overseas, $5,375.

PRICE CONTROL AND RATIONING
SPECIALIST — CAF-13
(Base Pay Plus Overseas —
$ 7,787.50)

Broad experience in price control
of all goods and services is essential,
but capacity to co-operate with other
function heads on price controls or
services under their jurisdiction is also
essential. Some intimacy with policy
making is desirable, and ability. to
execute the policy of higher authority
is required. Experience must embrace
making or directing the accomplish-
ment of comprehensive investigations
of price increases on the general econo-
my, existing price regulations, con-
sumption, currency supply, wage and
salary structure, tax and subsidy pay-
ment, interzonal trade, etc. Applicant
should be able to direct the reorgani-
zation of German agencies dealing with
price control and rationing. Degree in
economics with major study in price
control desirable.

43

The position of Staff Member in
this section is also available at CAF-11,
base pay plus overseas, $ 5,375.

REQUIREMENTS AND ALLOCATIONS
SPECIALIST — CAF-13
(Base Pay Plus Overseas —
$ 7,787.50)

Comprehensive experience in proc-
urement and distribution of supplies
is qualifying. In conjunction with the
Head of Economics should be able to
define relative needs of various func-
tions for commodities and establish pri-
orities forthem. Must havethe capacity
to formulate policy and apply established
policy to the marked differences in
need existing in various parts of Ger-
many. Familiarity with QMC, Engineer,
G-4, and UNRRA functions as regards
supply is essential. Must be able to
prepare, consolidate and interpret in-
formation and statistics of supply signi-
ficance.

The position of Staff Member in
this section at CAF-11, base pay plus
overseas, $ 5,375, is also available.

FORESTRY SPECIALIST — CAF-13
(Base Pay Plus Overseas —
$ 7,787.50)

An individual experienced in manage-
ment and utilization of forest and perks
is required for this job. Should have,
through experience, the ability to or-
ganize, train and operate a forestry
and game warden service. Further, he
should be able to spot check and im-
prove operations in forest management
and utilization so as to keep a closely
co-ordinated and ambitious forestry
program in the proper direction in re-
forestation, control and production, as
will be necessary during the occupation
and reconstruction of Germany. In-
dividual must have the necessary ability
to aid in the complete denazification
of the German Forestry Service, and
in addition be able completely to under-
stand the existent German system of

--- Page 47 ---
communication. Should be a forestry
school graduate.

FORESTRY SPECIALIST — CAF-11
(Base Pay Plus Overseas —
$4,550)

Individual whose main job is to aid
Section Head and to take over a spe-
cialized part of a section (Fishing)
where his qualifications are outstand-
ing. Should be a_ forestry school
graduate.

FORESTRY SPECIALIST — CAF-9
(Base Pay Plus Overseas —
$5,375)

A field supervisor — well informed
on management of forests. Should be
able to take immediate cognizance and
action of any area which is being mis-
managed as well a complete under-
standing of necessary production and

control of wood and all its outleds.

TO LT. COLONEL
Maj. Miner B. Phillips, 3d MG. Regt.

TO MAJOR
Capt. Hugh St. Baumgardner, 3dM.
G. Regt.
Capt. John L. Reitzel, 3d MG. Regt.

Capt. Clarence M. Bolds, 3d MG. Regt.

Capt. Carl W. Groppe, 3d MG. Regt.

TO CAPTAIN
1st Lt. Hermann E. Auerbach, 3d MG.
Regt.
1st Lt. Charles A. Lavery, 3d MG. Regt.
1st Lt. Kurt Fredericks, 3d MG. Ret.
1st Lt, Edward C. Nichols, 3d MG. Regt.

44

Payment in Lieu of Terminal
Leave Approved
The bill authorizing lump sum pay-

ment in lieu of terminal leave has been
passed by Congress and signed by the
President.

This means that personnel of the
armed forces who have performed ac-
tive service since May ist, 1940 may
accept. civilian employment with the
U.S. Government while on terminal
leave pending separation and receive
pay for such leave in addition to the
salary of the civilian position.

Those persons who already have
all part of their
authorized terminal leave in order to

relinquished or
accept civilian employment may present
their claim for terminal leave pay to
the disbursing officer who paid final
pay account. If payment therefore is
proper, it will be made in a lump sum.

A person serving in a U.S. Govern-

pay
because of receiving terminal leave pay

ment civilian position without
now may submit a claim for civilian
pay to the general accounting office,
and payment for this will be made in
a lump sum. If a position with a state
or political sub-division thereof was
accepted while on terminal leave, a
claim may be presented to disbursing
officer who paid the final pay account

for payment for leave in lump sum.

No waiver previously effected will
now bar payment for any amounts
otherwise due under this Act.