--- Page 2 ---
No. 13 — 20 OCTOBER 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

Weekly
Information Bulletin

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
nee ye
id

———

RUSSIAN ZONE —————

CZECHO- 3

IRZBURG . 17 VA, SLOVAKIAZ

AUTOBAHN:
— MAIN ROUTES IST B 2ND GL
o- DISTRICT ROAD IST CLASS

AUSTRIA

ss Sect"
STATISTICS. grt
= Sec GEN STAFE

UNITED STATES ZONE OF OCCUPATIO

—— 5 G= L

--- Page 4 ---
No. 13-- 20 OCTOBER 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U.S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---
CONTENTS

PAGE

Military Government Letters and Instructions Issued this Week 3

Control Council Law No. 1... 0... ... 2.2. 4
Control Council Law No.2... ...2.2.2..2.2. 5
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY... ........ «7
German Administration of Justice. . . . . . 1... 7
Consolidation of Military Government . . . . . . 12
Procedures for Restitution . . . . . . .... . 14
Revival of Communications. . . . . . 1. . | 18
GENERAL... .... 2. ee ee
An Analysis of Civil Service... 2. 1. 2 1 we.
German-wide Census. . . . . «1 7 ss we 21
Weekly Denazification Report. . . . . . 1... 21
Food QuotaRequirements . . . . ...... . 22
InBrief. 2. we 22
GERMAN REACTIONS .......... . 23
A Frankfurt Conservative Looks at the Local Scene. . . 23
"The Indispensable Nazi". . . . . 1. 1. 2B
ReactiontoLawNo.8 . ......... 2. . 24
Report to Bavarian President . . . . . . 2 . 1. 24
VOICES OF EXPERIENCE ......... 25
PRESS COMMENTS ......... 2.2... 26
Industry Policies Under Scrutiny . . . . . . 1... 26
Nurnberg Trials . 2 2. 2. 1 1 7. ee ee 27
Berlin Experiment . . 2. 2. 2. 1 1 ew eee 27
German PW's . 2 ww ewe ee 28
Random Comments . .......... =. =. 28
Station List 2. 1 2 ee ee 80

--- Page 6 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT LETTERS AND
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED DURING THE WEEK

Amendment to the Directive to Commanding Generals, Military
Districts, dated 7 July, 1945, Subject: Administration of Military
Government in the U. S. Zone of Germany, Section X (Indu-

stry) revised
Amendment No. 4 to SHAEF, Military Government, Germany,

Technical Manual for Labor Officers-Instructions to Military

Government Detachments Concerning Health Insurance .

Denazification of Privately Owned Railroads .

Reports of German Authorities of Payments Covering U.S. Army

Requisitions and Civilian Labor

Reorganization of Military Government Control Channels in

Order to Develop German Responsibility for Self-Government

German Business Association

Revision of Property Control Accounting Directive dated

22 September 1945 .

Instructions Concerning Weekly Denazification Report (distrib-

uted through technical channels) .

1 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

1 October 1945 (file
GEC/Econ-461 [TM])

10 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

4 October 1945 (file AG
400.312 GEC-AGO)

5 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

3 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

6 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

12 October 1945 (file
GEC-319.1 [MG])

--- Page 7 ---
CONTROL COUNCIL
Law No. 1

Repealing of Nazi Laws

The Control Council enacts as follows:

Article 1
1. The following laws of a political or dis-
criminatory nature upon which the Nazi regime
rested are hereby expressly repealed, together
with all supplementary and explanatory laws,
ordinances and decrees:

(a) Law concerning the Relief of Distress of
the Nation and the Reich (Gesetz zur
Behebung der Not Volk und Reich) of 24
March, 1933, RGBI. 1/41.

(b) Law for the Reconstitution of Officialdom
(Gesetz zur Wiederherstellung des Berufs-
beamtentums) of 7 April, 1933, RGBI. I 175.

(c) Law for the amendment of the Provisions
of Criminal Law and Procedure (Gesetz
zur Anderung von Vorschriften des Straf-
rechts und des Strafverfahrens) of 24
April, 1934, RGBI. 1/341.

(d) Law for the Protection of National Sym-
bols (Gesetz zum Schutze der nationalen
Symbole) of 19 May, 1933, RGBI. 1/285.

(e) Law against the creation of Political Par-
ties (Gesetz gegen die Neubildung von
Parteien) of 14 July, 1933, RGBI. 1/479.

(f) Law on Plebiscites (Gesetz iitber Volksab-
stimmung) of 14 July, 1933, RGBI. 1/479.

(g) Law for securing the Unity of Party and
State (Gesetz zur Sicherung der Einheit
von Partei und Staat) of 1 December, 1933,
RGBI. 1/1016.

(h) Law concerning insidious attacks against
the State and the Party and for the pro-
tection of the Party Uniform and insignia
(Gesetz gegen heimtiickische Angriffe auf
Staat und Partei und zum Schutz der
Parteiuniform) of 20 December, 1934,
RGBI. 1/1269.

(i) Reich Flag Law (Reichsflaggengesetz) of
15 September, 1935, RGBI. 1/1145.

(k) Law for the protection of German Blood
and German Honour (Gesetz zum Schutze
des deutschen Blutes und der deutschen
Ehre), of 15 September, 1935, RGBI. 1/1146.

(1) Reich Citizenship Law (Reichsburgergesetz)
of 15 September, 1935, RGBI. 1/1146.

(m) Prussian Law concerning the Gestapo
(Preussische Gesetz iiber die Geheime
Staatspolizel) of 10 February, 1936, G. S. 21.

(n) Hitler Youth Law (Gesetz iiber die Hitler-
jugend) of 1 December, 1936, RGBI. 1/993.

(o) Ordinance against support for the camou-
flaging of Jewish Businesses (Verordnung
gegen die Unterstiitzung der Tarnung
Jiidischer Gewerbebetriebe) of 22 April,
1938, RGBI. 1/404.

(p) Ordinance for the reporting of Property
of Jews (Verordnung iiber die Anmeldung
des Vermégens von Juden) of 26 April,
1938, RGBI. 1/414.

(q) Law concerning the alteration of the trade
regulations for the Reich (Gesetz zur
Anderung der Gewerbeordnung fiir das
Deutsche Reich) of 1 July, 1938, RGBI. 1/823,

(r) Second Carrying out Ordinance of the
Law concerning the changing of Family
Names and Christian Names (Zweite Ver-
ordnung zur Durchfiihrung des Gesetzes
iiber die Anderung von Familiennamen
und Vornamen) of 17 August, 1938, RGBI.
1/1044.

(s) Ordinance concerning the Passports of
Jews (Verordnung iiber Reisepisse von
Juden) of 5 October, 1938, RGBI 1/1342.

{t) Ordinance for the elimination of Jews
from economic life (Verordnung zur Aus-
schaltung der Juden aus dem deutschen
Wirtschaftleben) of 12 November, 1938,
RGBI. 1/1580.

(u) Police Ordinance concerning the appear-
ance of Jews in Public (Polizeiverordnung
iiber das Auftreten der Juden in der
Offentlichkeit) of 28 November, 1938,
RGBI. 1/1676.

(v) Ordinance concerning proof of German
descent (Verordnung iiber den Nachweis
deutschblutiger Abstammung) of 1 August,
1940, RGBI. 1/1063.

(w) Police Ordinance concerning the marking
of Jews (Polizeiverordnung iiber die Kenn-
zeichnung der Juden) of 1 September,
1941, RGBI. 1/547.

(x) Ordinance concerning the employment of
Jews (Verordnung iiber die Beschaftigung
von Juden) of 31 October, 1941, RGBI.
1/675.

--- Page 8 ---
(y) Decree of the Fuhrer concerning the legal
status of the NSDAP (Erlass des Fiihrers
iiber die Rechtsstellung der NSDAP) of 12
December, 1942, RGBI. 1/733.

(z) Police Ordinance concerning the identifica-
tion of male and female workers from the
East on Reich Territory (Polizeiverord-
nung iiber die Kenntlichmachung, die im
Reich befindlichen Ostarbeiter und arbei-
terinnen) of 19 June, 1944, RGBI. 1/147.

2. The abrogation of the above mentioned
laws does not revive any law enacted subse-
quent to 30 January, 1933, which was thereby
repealed.

Article II

No German enactment, however or when-
ever enacted, shall be applied judicially or ad-
ministratively in any instance where such appli-
cation would cause injustice or inequality,
either (a) by favouring any person because of
his connection with the National Socialist Ger-

man Labour Party, its formations, affiliated
associations, or supervised organisations, or
(b) by discriminating against any person by
reason of his race, nationality, religious beliefs,
or opposition to the National Socialist German
Labour Party or its doctrines.

Article Hl

Any person applying or attempting to apply
any law repealed by this law will be liable to
criminal prosecution.

Done at Berlin, 20 September 1945

Bernard L. Montgomery, K. C. B., D.S. O.
Field Marshal

Louis Koeltz
General, Corps d’Armee

Vassily D. Sokolovsky
Army General

Dwight D. Eisenhower
General of the Army.

CONTROL COUNCIL
Law No. 2

Providing for the Termination and Liquidation of the Nazi Organisations

The Control Council enacts as follows:

ARTICLE I
1. The National Socialist German Labour
Party, its formations, affiliated associations
and supervised agencies, including paramili-
tary organisations and all other Nazi institu-

tions established as instruments of party
domination are hereby abolished and declared

illegal,

2. The Nazi organisations enumerated in the
attached Appendix, or which may be added,
are expressly abolished.

3. The reforming of any of the organisations
named herein, whether under the same or
different name is forbidden.

ARTICLE Hl
All real estates, equipments, funds, accounts,
records and other property of the organisa-
tions abolished by this law are confiscated.
Confiscation is carried out by Military Com-
mands; general directives concerning the

distribution of the confiscated property are
given by the Control Council.

ARTICLE Il

Until such time as the property mentioned
is actually placed under the control of the
Military Commands all officers and other per-
sonnel, including administrative officials and
others accountable for such property, are held
personally responsible for taking any action
necessary to preserve intact all such property
and for complying with the orders of the Mili-
tary Commands regarding such property.

ARTICLE IV
Any person violating any provision of this
law shall be liable to criminal prosecution.

Done at Berlin, 10th October 1945.

Pierre Koenig
General

Vassily D. Sokolovsky
Army General

Dwight D. Eisenhower
General of the Army

Brian H. Robertson
Lieutenant Generai

--- Page 9 ---
1.

Noabrwn

io)

11.
12.

13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.

21,

8

23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.

Appendix fo Law No. 2:

Providing for the Termination and Liquidation of the Nazi Organisations.

Nationalsozialistische
partei

Deutsche Arbeiter-

. Partei-Kanzlei
. Kanzlei des Fiihrers der NSDAP

| Auslandsorganisation

. Volksbund fiir das Deutschtum im Ausland
. Volksdeutsche Mittelstelle

. Parteiamtliche

Pritfungskommission
Schutze des NS-Schrifttums

zum

. Reichsorganisationsleiter der NSDAP
. Reichsschatzmeister der NSDAP
. Beauftragter des Fiihrers

fiir die Uber-
wachung der gesamten geistigen und welt-
anschaulichen Schulung und Erziehung der
NSDAP

Reichspropagandaleiter der NSDAP
Reichsleiter fiir die Presse, und Zentral-
verlag der NSDAP (Eher-Verlag)
Reichspressechef der NSDAP

Reichsamt fiir das Landvolk

Hauptamt fiir Volksgesundheit

Hauptamt fiir Erzieher

Hauptamt fiir Kommunalpolitik

Hauptamt fiir Beamte

Beauftragter der NSDAP fiir alle Volks-
tumsfragen

. Rassenpolitisches Amt der NSDAP

Amt fiir Sippenforschung
Kolonialpolitisches Amt der NSDAP
Aussenpolitisches Amt der NSDAP
Reichstagsfraktion der NSDAP
Reichsfrauenfiihrung
NSD-Arztebund

Hauptamt fiir Technik

NS-Bund Deutscher Technik
NS-Lehrerbund

Reichsbund der Deutschen Beamten
Reichkolonialbund

“32, NS-Frauenschaft

33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
AL
~ 42.
43.
44.
45,
46.
47.
48.
49.

50.

Y 51
52.
Vv 53.
54,

55.

56.
57.
v 58.

59.
60.
61.
Vv 62.

NS-Reichsbund Deutschgy Schwestern
Deutches Frauenwerk
Reichsstudentenfiihrung
NSD-Studentenbund

Deutsche Studentenschaft
NSD-Dozentenbund

NS-Rechtswahrerbund

NS-Altherrenbund der Deutschen Studenten
Reichsbund Deutsche Familie

Deutsche Arbeitsfront

NS-Reichsbund fiir Leibesiibungen
NS-Reichskriegerbund

Reichskulturkammer

Deutscher Gemeindetag

Geheime Staatspolizei

Deutsche Jagerschaft
Sachverstandigenbeirat fiir Bevélkerungs-
und Rassenpolitik

Reichsausschuss zum Schutze des Deutschen
Blutes

. Winterhilfswerk

Hauptamt fiir Kriegsopfer

NSKOV (NS-Kriegsopferversorgung)

SA (Sturmabteilungen), including the SA-
Wehrmannschaften

SS (Schutzstaffeln), including all Waffen-SS,
the SD (Sicherheitsdienst) and all offices
combining command over the police
and SS

NSKK (NS-Kraftfahrerkorps)

NSFK (NS-Fliegerkorps)

HJ (Hitler Jugend) including its subsidiary
organizations

RAD (Reichsarbeitsdienst)

OT (Organisation Todt)

TENO (Technische Nothilfe)
Nationalsozialistische Volkswohlfahrt

--- Page 10 ---
Highlights of P olicy

One of the most important tasks of
Military Government is the establishment
of an independent court system operated
by the Germans themselves. The Big
Three announced at the Potsdam Con-
ference that it is essential that
the judicial system "be reorganized
in accordance with the principles of de-
mocracy, of justice under law, and of
equal rights for all citizens without dis-
tinction of race, nationality or religion.”

To provide the framework and basic
principles for this undertaking, the
Office. of Military Government (U.S.
Zone) has issued a Plan for the Ad-
ministration of Justice in the United
States Zone. It is a practical plan. In
its preparation, benefit was had of ad-
vice and suggestions of Legal Officers
in the field, and it was discussed with
a few German authorities in the field
of law and court administration.

The plan represents an attempt to
establish within the U.S. Zone, as a self-
contained unit, a simple, workable
system. While making use of existing
organization and procedures insofar as
compatible with our policy and the spe-
cial circumstances of the time and place,
it provides special measures to offset
the serious shortages of politically ac-
ceptable personnel and lays the found-
ation of an independent judiciary and
bar, freed of the objectionable practices
of the past twelve years.

Some background is necessary to
understand the problems which were
involved in the plan’s preparation. One
must realize at the outset that the occu-

German Administration

of Justice

pation of our forces brought to a
standstill the operation of the German
courts, their good features with their
bad, and that it has been necessary to
build from the ground up. This was
not because of the physical destruction
of court houses, the loss or removal of
records, or the restriction on civilian
movements which combat imposed,
although all were present. It was be-
cause of the need for finding reliable
and independent judges to replace the
*soldiers” of Hitler and the necessity
of weeding out the exceptions which
had grown up since 1933 to the principle
that a man is entitled to a fair trial.

COURTS UNDER NAZIS

Not only had the ordinary courts -~
in ascending order, the Amtsgerichte,
Landgerichte, Oberlandesgerichte, and
Reichsgericht — come to apply the law
in accordance with the race and political
opinions of the litigant or with the
orders of the central authority, but there
nad been created to aid in this enter-
prise a host of new courts unknown
before 1933. Most notorious of these
were the People’s Court (Volksgerichts-
hof) and the Special Courts (Sonderge-
richte).

These nazi courts were abolished by
SHAEF Proclamation No. 1 and by
Military Government Law No. 2. These
enactments also suspended the operation
of all other courts until authorized to
reopen by Military Government. More-
over, Law No. 2 limited in a number of
respects the jurisdiction of such courts
as should be permitted to reopen; for

--- Page 11 ---
example, by denying authority to deal
with cases against United Nations na-
tionals and those involving violations
of Military Government legislation.

INITIAL ACTIVITY

As with all other German administra-
tion, the resumption of activity by the
courts after the occupation began on
a strictly local basis, with individual
Amtsgerichte authorized to reopen for
the trial of criminal cases and other
limited classes of business authorized
by Military Government. In this initial
stage, the work was done in a rather
primitive manner by a judge, prose-
cutor, and lawyers selected by the local
Military Government Detachment, on
the basis of Fragebogen and personal
investigation, as possessing the political
and moral qualities required by our
policies. By this piecemeal method, and
more recently in some instances by the
reopening at one time of a Landgericht
and the several Amtsgerichte within its
district, substantial progress was made.

As of 30 September 1945, more than
half ine Amtsgerichte in the U.S. Zone
had been reopened on a partial basis,
as had some seventeen Landgerichte, re-
presenting approximately two-fifths of
the total number previously existing. In
every case, these courts were governed
by instructions issued by Military Gov-
ernment detachments, but there was a
lack of direction on the German side,
and Military Government supervision
was generally as localized as the opera-
tion of the courts themselves.

THE NEW PLAN

The plan just issued is designed to tie
together the loose ends by bringing all
courts and prisons within the scope of
a single uniform system. Almost equally
important, it defines initial jurisdiction,
appellate jurisdiction, and powers and
functions of courts in a detail not re-
quired by the limited scale operations
which have heretofore been the rule.

Primary responsibility for the re.
establishment of the courts in accord-
ance with our conceptions of justice is,
under the plan, placed on a Minister of
Justice in each of the three German
states reconstituted by Military Gov-
ernment Proclamation No. 2. In the
Bremen Sub-District, responsibility is
placed on a Senator for Justice. In order
to enable these men to accomplish their
objectives, they are given powers com-
mensurate with their duties and each
within his area is charged with carrying
out functions substantially similar to
those formerly performed by the Reich
Minister of Justice for Germany as a
whole. This change reverses the action
of the years since 1933 in which the
judical independence of the separate
states was wholly sacrificed to the cen-
tral authority of the Reich Minister of
Justice, with the local Amtsgericht be-
coming a German Court and its judge a
German civil servant. Hereafter, even
were a Reich Minister of Justice and a
Reichsgericht to be restored, there will
be no occasion to alter the fundamental
principle inherent in the plan of. State
courts and State judges.

COURTS OF APPEAL FOR NEW STATES

The creation of the new states of
Great Hesse and of Wiirttemberg-Baden,
consolidating sections ‘of former states
or of Prussian provinces, made appro-
priate a change of the Oberlandesgericht
Districts to conform to the new state
boundaries. Each of the states, subject
to some exceptions, was by USFET
Proclamation No. 2 given full legislative
powers and it was accordingly desirable
that in each state there should be a Court
of Appeal (Oberlandesgericht), com-
posed of judges from that state, to be
the final authority on legal questions
arising within its borders.

No change has been made solely for
the sake of change, and to the. extent
that an existing organization had no

--- Page 12 ---
serious disadvantages, that organization
was adopted in the interest of speeding
the work and of avoiding unnecessary
readjustments. Thus, in Bavaria, the
plan retains the same three Oberlandes-
gericht Districts which had been in
existence long before Hitler, although
in Bavaria as in the other states the
President of each Oberlandesgericht, as
well as the other judges of that and
lower courts, will be subject to the
direction of the Minister of Justice at
Munich. With respect to Bremen, the
decision to establish the Sub-District as
a separate Oberlandesgericht District
was based primarily on its distance from
the remainder of the U.S. Zone and the
present difficulties of communication.

PROBLEM OF BOUNDARIES

The consolidation in Great Hesse and
Wiirttemberg-Baden of parts of pre-
existing Oberlandesgericht Districts pre-
sented a peculiar problem. Prior to the
occupation and the drawing of a hori-
zontal line between U.S. and French
Zones,. roughly bisecting Wiirttemberg
and Baden, each of these states had a
single Oberlandesgericht. The seats of
these courts were at Stuttgart and
Karlsruhe respectively, both of which
cities are now in the U.S. Zone. With
the cutting off of the French areas, the
remaining northerly halves of Wiirt-
temberg and Baden seemed not to jus-
tify the preservation of either as a
separate judicial district. But upon their
consolidation and the establishment of
the principal seat of the Oberlandesge-
richt at Stuttgart, provision was made
for a secondary seat of the court at
Karlsruhe and for a Deputy Minister of
Justice for Baden. It will not, however,
be necessary that the court sitting in
Stuttgart or Karlsruhe be composed ex-
clusively of judges drawn from Wiirt-
temberg or Baden, as the case may be.
There will be a single court of appeal
with judges drawn from the best-

qualified personnel in both areas and
suited by their past records to the work
of assisting in the re-establishment of
an independent judiciary, free of any
nazi complexion.

JUSTLY JUDGED

According to the best estimates avail-
able, approximately 80 per cent of all
the judges at the time of Germany’s
unconditional surrender have disquali-
fied themselves by their past actions
from any further part in the task. Many
fall in mandatory removal categories,
and others, though in discretionary
classes only, cannot be trusted to hold
a position whose importance to the re-
orientation of German thought and
character is so vital. For the immediate
future, since the training of a new
class of German judges and lawyers
cannot be accomplished overnight, a
first consideration is the efficient use
of the available suitable personnel. The
plan makes provision for such use. A
judge will not be assigned full-time to
a court where full-time services are not
required, but will be put on circuit! to
two or more courts.

The assignment of a judge to a se-
parate part or chamber of a particular
court will not be allowed, and the judge
may, as time permits, sit on criminal
cases, civil litigation, probate, and other
non-contentious matters. Similarly, a
judge regardless of his primary assign-
ment to one type of court, may sit on
another court, a provision which will
make unnecessary the creation of a
large Oberlandesgericht bench since the
court in sitting on appeals may make use
of a Landgericht judge who has not
been a.party to the proceedings below.

RESPONSIBILITIES OF MINISTERS
OF JUSTICE

The Ministers of Justice who are res-
ponsible for this efficient use of per-
sonnel are charged with many other

--- Page 13 ---
functions, including the coordination
with educational agencies on matters
pertaining to the study of law, the
practical training of young lawyers
under new standards, and the deter-
mination of qualification requirements
for admission to the bar and to judicial
position. They are required to prepare
and submit to Military Government
proposals for problems demanding im-
mediate action, including administration
of budgetary matters and the housing
of courts, the execution of sentences,
the opening and restoration of the
Grundbuch and other registers, pro-
vision for instances in which documents
have been lost or destroyed. They are
also charged with the restoration of
lay participation in the administration
of justice, and the preservation of uni-
formity of judicial interpretation of
law. Mutual assistance in dealing with
these matters will be afforded through
a coordination committee, composed of
the Ministers of each of the states and
the Senator for Justice for Bremen. The
Minister of Justice for Great Hesse is
to be the chairman.

SIMPLIFICATION IS AIM

In matters of jurisdiction, the plan
breaks new ground, with the primary
aim that of simplification. In the past,
whether a case came before an Amts-
gericht or Landgericht was dependent
upon the type of offense involved. For
example, the Amtsgericht had jurisdic-
tion to try what are referred to in civil
legal nomenclature as contraventions and
delicts and, in addition, certain specified
crimes. In every case jurisdiction was
with reference to the particular offence
and to the maximum penalties provided
for by the Code. Under the plan, how-
ever, the jurisdiction of the Amtsgericht,
like that of Military Government Courts,
is limited by the power of the judge to
impose punishment, irrespective of the
type of offense committed.

10

The Amtsgericht may impose senten-

ces of imprisonment (without hard
labor) not exceeding five years, of im-

prisonment (with hard labor) not ex-
ceeding two years, detention (Haft), and
fines. The result is that discretion is
vested in the Public Prosecutor of each
case to determine the court before which
the accused will be brought and if in
his judgment, considering the circum.
stances of the offense, the prisoner
deserves more severe punishment than
can be imposed by the Amtsgericht, the
case will be referred to the Landgericht.

JURISDICTION

In addition to acting as a court of
first instance, the Landgericht hears
appeals from the Amtsgericht on
questions of fact.or of law or of both.
The Oberlandesgericht is the Court of
Appeal for all cases decided by the
Landgericht as a court of first instance
and appeals to it will be confined to
matters of law. The jurisdiction of the
Oberlandesgericht as a court of first
instance has been eliminated.

A great advantage of the centrali-
zation of responsibility at the state level
is a simplification of the task of Mili-
tary Government in supervising the
operations of German courts and pri-
sons. Heretofore, by its direct operation
of Military Government Courts and the
supervision of German courts on a
localized basis, Military Government has
necessarily fallen short of its aim of
transferring to the German people
primary responsibility for the ad-
ministration of justice. As the volume
of business of the German Courts in-
creases, however, both through the re-
turn to normal conditions and the re-
quirement that the Germans by their,
own legislation and their own courts
enter the field which has thus far been
covered by Military Government legis-
lation and Military Government Courts.
it .is imperative that. the primary

--- Page 14 ---
direction by Military Government be
made applicable to a limited number of
top German officials.

For: the trial of the more serious
crimes of interest to the occupying
forces the need for Military Govern-
ment Courts will continue, and there
will be lesser offenses, including those
involving United Nations nationals, for
which these courts will still be required.
But for violations of curfew and other
minor offenses of the police regulation
type with which Military Government
Courts have been so largely concerned,
it is the policy that the German local
authorities enact local ordinances com-
parable to existing Military Government
legislation and themselves assume res-
ponsibility for enforcement.

HANDS OFF, !F POSSIBLE

If the new Ministers of Justice, judges,
and other officials who are to take part
in the administration of justice in the
U.S. Zone are to be successful in their
work, they must be permitted to assume
initiative, responsibility, and administ-
rative discretion, without undue inter-
ference by Military Government. The

11

best example is the case in which one
of the German litigants has apparently
suffered an injustice, without, however,
having exhausted his right of appeal.
It is not appropriate that Military Gov-
ernment Officers should interfere direct-
ly at the level of the court of first in-
stance because they believe the decision
is wrong. Such interference should
normally await the action on appeal
which may correct the original fault.

This rule does not of course, preclude
action by a subordinate Military Gov-
ernment detachment to remove a case
in which the lower German Court has
exceeded the jurisdiction permitted it
by Military Government Law No. 2, nor
prevent the subordinate detachment’s
taking action whenever serious interests
of the occupying forces are involved.
In all these matters, however, success
will be dependent on the good judgment
of those in the field and the preparation
and issuance of any plan will serve a
constructive purpose only in so far as
use is made of it by those who at the
operating level have the task of re-
building German justice in the U.S.
Zone.

--- Page 15 ---
Consolidation of Military Government

In a new, major move to transfer re-
sponsibility for the operation of local
government in the U.S. Zone of Occu-
pation from Americans to Germans, the
Office of Military Government (U.S.
Zone) issued a directive setting specific
time limits by which Landkreis, Stadt-
kreis, and Regierungsbezirk detach-
ments will withdraw from direct parti-
cipation in German affairs. Detailed
plans to effect this schedule are now in
preparation.

Under the provisions of the directive,
Landkreis and Stadtkreis detachments
will be shorn of their specialist staffs by
15 November; technicians at Regierungs-
bezirk level will go by 15 December. All
public health, labor, and similar spe-
specialist officers will be transferred to
pools to be operated by Land-level de-
tachments.

The move will make possible the early
return home of many high-point Mili-
tary Government officers who do not
wish to remain overseas. Between 1 No-
vember and 15 December, 1600 officers
will be withdrawn from current jobs.
For example, Regierungsbezirk staffs
will be reduced from 55 officers to five.
Those who choose to stay will ill be used
as replacements for the others. Officers
eligible for discharge under the point
system will be given an opportunity to
apply for a civilian appointment. Both
officers and civilian appointees | will, be
f specialist
ate from
id-le ne These teams
will have an mgeteetvel reporting,
and advisory function and will be con-
cerned with problems in such special
fields as education, agriculture, man-
power, etc. Until these teams are or-
ganized, however, the present reporting
system will remain.

The new directive was issued as the

12

Germans were preparing election codes
intended to set the stage for elections
in 1946. By next spring control of Ger-
many by the occupation forces will be
exercised largely at Land-level and
higher. Increasing reliance will be placed
on German officials selected through
democratic processes under Military
Government direction.

FUNCTIONAL CONTROL OUT

Small staffs will remain at Landkreis,
Stadtkreis, and Regierungsbezirk levels
even after the 15 November and 15 De-
cember. deadlines. However, they will
have only general policy control over
the civil government and will leave
functional matters entirely to the Ger-
mans themselves. They will supervise the
coming elections and vet candidates
nominated by the several political par-
ties. This will of necessity be done by
Special Branch staffs.

But these reduced-size detachments
will stay in the areas of their present
jurisdiction only until the elections are
actually held and the victorious can-
didates installed in office. The directive
specifies that all Landkreis detachments
are to be withdrawn by 30 April 1946
at the latest. Stadtkreis detachments, on
the other hand, may stay on until 30
June 1946.

As soon as the last Stadtkreis or Land-
kreis detachment in a Regierungsbezirk
area has been withdrawn, the Re-
gierungsbezirk detachment governing
the region will itself be removed.

LIAISON AND SECURITY OFFICES

In place of the Military Government
detachments at Stadtkreis and Landkreis
levels, special liaison and security offi-
ces will be established. These will nor-
mally be operated by two officers and
whatever administrative personnel is
needed. They will maintain liaison with

--- Page 16 ---
local occupational troops, make gene-
ral reports on conditions in the area,
and exercise policy control over the
local government. They will be able to
call on the functional teams at Land
level to assist with problems requiring
technical knowledge,

No place is envisaged in this scheme
for. Regierungsbezirk detachments.
When they are. withdrawn, no liaison
and security offices will take their place.

Under the plan, as of 30 June 1946
the Military Government structure. will
consist of Offices of Military Govern-
ment at Berlin and Frankfurt, four
Land detachments (the Bremen Sub-
District is to be considered a Land),
and liaison and security offices in all
Landkreise and Stadtkreise.

Military Government functions will

be wholly withdrawn from the Third

and Seventh U.S. Armies as of 31 De-
cember. All Military Government mat-
ters will be handled directly by the Offi-
ces of Military Government at Berlin
and Frankfurt-am-Main with the Land
detachments, including the Bremen Sub-
District. The Land detachments will be
responsible for the supply and ad-
ministration of all subordinate units in
their area. A detailed program is now
being worked out on the status of the
2nd and 3rd Military Government
Regiments under this set-up.

These far-reaching changes in the
Military Government structure are of
great significance. Partly the move
is intended to conserve Military Gov-
ernment personnel, reduce involvement
in details of local administration, and
shift the burden of actual operation
onto the Germans.

But another reason is apparent in the
divorce of Military Government func-
tions from armies and the assignment
of tactical forces to duties analogous
to those which they pérform in the
United States. This separation is being
made as a result of current policy to
“civilianize” - Military .Government, to

13

make administrative control over Ger-
many a matter for civil concern. The
U.S. Army has never been enthusiastic
about political activity, and the current
program will result in the reduction and
ultimate elimination of one of its major
political commitments.

Most important, however, is the very
real intention of Military Government
ta require the Germans to. assume the
maximum possible self-government under
U.S. control. This policy stems from
the Potsdam Agteement, which says,
*Local self-government shall be restored
throughout. Germany on democratic
principles and -in particular through
elective councils as rapidly as is con-
sistent with military security and the
purposes of military occupation... .
Representative and elective | principles
shall be introduced: into regional, pro-
vincial . . . administration as rapidly as
may be justified by the successful appli-
cation of these principles in local self-
government.”

ELECTED OFFICIALS

To give elected officials confidence in
themselves and status in the eyes of
their electorate, it is essential that in-
cumbents work out. local government
problems without too much con-
trol by American authorities. Minute
concern on the part of. Military Gov-
ernment with every decision that the
German __ civil administration kes
would inevitably vitiate planning and
action on the part of the Germans.

Close watch over the German elec-
tions is an absolute must” in the car-
rying out of the denazification pro-
gram. Candidates must be vetted, and
nazis forbidden participation in politi-
cal parties. What is more, nazis must
be denied the polls. General of ‘the
Army Dwight D. Eisenhower, in a re-
cent press conference, made it plain that
nazis would be deprived of a vote
in Germany.”

--- Page 17 ---
A Laboratory of Inter-
national Agreement:

The Allied Control Council

Early in February a Crimea Con-
ference communiqué provided the first
official information on many aspects of
the future occupation andcontrol of Ger-
many. It was agreed at that time that
each of the three powers represented,
together with France, would share in the
occupation of Germany. In addition to
the administration of a separate zone by
each of these powers, provisions were
made for coordinated administration
and control. The plan resulting from the
historic conference provided for a Cen-
tral Control Commission, with head-
quarters in Berlin, as a means for the
realization of the desire for coordina-
tion and cooperation.

Today this Central Control Com-
mission, envisaged only eight months
ago, is an established fact, and is known
as the Allied Control Council. Its organi-
zation was completed and its statutes
laid down a few weeks after the Ger-
man surrender. On the 30th of July its
first meeting was held, under the chair-
manship of General of the Army Eisen-
hower. The members of the other three
powers were all present: Marshal
Zhukov, Field Marshal Montgomery and
Lieutenant General Koenig. On that day
the first quadrupartite decisions were
made in Berlin, and thereafter every ten
days the number of such decisions in-
creased.

THE COUNCIL'S MACHINERY

The constitution of the Allied Control
Council sets up machinery for carrying
out the basic requirements of uncon-
ditional surrender. It stipulates that de-
cisions shall be unanimous, and that
uniformity of action shall be ensured by
the Commanders-in-Chief in their re-
spective zones.

14

Under the Control Council there is a
permanent Coordinating Committee,
composed of one representative of each
of the four commanders and a Control
Staff in the form of twelve directorates:
Military, Naval, Air, Transport, Political,
Economic, Finance, .Reparations, De-
liveries and Restitution, Internal Affairs
and Communications, Legal, Prisoners
of War and Displaced Persons, and Man-
power. The functions of the Coordinat-
ing Committee and the Control Staff
are to advise the Control Council, to
carry out the decisions of the Control
Council, to transmit them to the appro-
priate German agencies, and to super-
vise and control the day-to-day activities
of these agencies. The American element
in the Control Council, until recently
known as ”U.S. Group,” is now called
the Office of Military Government for
Germany (U.S.).

"Greater Berlin” is administered by an
Inter-Allied governing authority known
as the Kommandatura, subject to the
overall direction of the Control Council.
It consists of four Commandants, each
of whom serves in rotation as Chief
Commandant. Under them a technical
staff is engaged in supervising and con-
trolling local German activities.

This constitution is clear and simple,
but the problems involved in action are
manifold. Decisions and agreements
reached are numerous. In many instances
the points under discussion have been
so intricate and so complex as to make
speedy laws, rules and regulations an
impossibility, due to the need for una-
nimity. Often one. representative of
another is dependent on instructions
from his respective government which

--- Page 18 ---
could not reach him in time to give him
a free hand at the time of discussion. In
addition, not all items on the agenda of
a Control Council meeting have always
had equal bearing and importance on
the policies and action of the various
occupying powers. The question of
fraternization with the German people
is an example. No non-fraternization
rules have ever existed in the Russian
Zone, and therefore an agreement
reached for the partial relaxation of
existing regulations affected only the
British, U.S., and French Zones.

Some of the proposals before the
Allied Control Council have dealt with
inter-Allied problems, such as airfield
requirements; boundary adjustments
both ‘of zones and of the Berlin sectors;
methods of legislative procedure; official
languages; and publication of legis-
lation.

THE COUNCIL'S PROCLAMATIONS

Most important perhaps have been the
proclamations issued to the German
people. There have been two up
to the present time, both of them
announcements of basic requirements
arising from the complete defeat and
unconditional surrender of Germany.
Proclamation No. 1 informed the Ger-
mans of the Control Council’s assump-
tion of supreme authority with respect
to Germany. Proclamation No. 2 is an
assertion of this supreme authority and
is a document sweeping in its implica-
tions. It orders complete and final aboli-
tion of all German land, naval, and air
forces; of all nazi party organizations,
Staffs, and institutions; and of all mili-
tary or quasi-military organizations.
Continuation of military tradition is
made impossible by the prohibition of all
forms of military training, military pro-
Paganda or military activities of any
nature.

All matters affecting Germany’s re-
lations with other countries will be reg-

15

ulated by the Allied representatives,
who will have to sanction all foreign
obligations, undertakings and commit-
ments assumed by Germany or German
nationals. The proclamation places the
whole German _ inter-communication
system under the complete control of
the Allies. It makes German authorities
dependent upon Allied direction in the
use, control and censorship of all media
for influencing expression and opinion,
including broadcasting, press and publi-
cations, and all forms of entertainment
and advertising.

Control over German finance, agri-
culture, industry and German economy
in all its phases and aspects may be com-
plete or as far-reaching as is deemed
necessary, Measures of restitution, con-
trol of property and assets, reparations
and rehabilitation will be dictated by
Allied representatives. In fact, there is
no phase of German life which is not
affected by Proclamation No. 2, which
also includes the movement of popu-
lation, apprehension of nazi leaders,
relief, reconstruction, and ‘prompt
furnishing of all information and docu-

ments desired by the Allied represent-
atives.

THE STANDARD OF LIVING

Among the most pressing questions
before the Control Council at almost
each of its meetings has been the settle-
ment of the food and coal problem. This
involves not only the formulation of
standards for the German people, but
also the partition of responsibility,
evaluation of sources and_ supplies
within the various zones of occupation,
and exports, imports and distribution.
The American press has for many weeks
expressed a diversity of opinion with
respect to food and coal for Germany
and occupied Europe. Naturally, a
clash of opinions is inevitable among
the nations sharing in the occupational

--- Page 19 ---
task in Germany. For this reason, and
also because of ever-changing circum-
stances and production figures, the
problem is never settled except for the
immediate future.

In spite of the varied political systems
and governmental set-ups of the nations
represented on the Allied Control Coun-
cil, agreement has been reached on the
resumption of political life in Germany
and all zones have permitted the organi-
zation of some of the liberal or leftist
parties banned in Hitler Germany. Trade

unions may be re-established everywhere
in Germany.

Governing a nation is a tremendous
task; governing a defeated and confused
and utterly beaten nation such as Ger-
many is an even bigger task. Awesome
in its implications, the task has ne-
vertheless been tackled with courage
and energy. And although the wheels
often grind slowly, there are at present
many indications. that out of this
laboratory of international agreement
will come lessons for peace in the world.

Procedures for Restitution

The implementation of an interim
policy of restitution of properties re-
moved by the Germans from Allied Na-
tions has created a flood of claims
from the Western Allies. To systematize
this influx, the countries involved are
being invited to furnish the Office of
Military Government for Germany (U.
S.) with consolidated lists of claims.

In most instances, the various nations
do not know the methods of restitution
as planned by the United States. As a
result, claims are being processed by
individuals to the Restitution Section,
Economics Division of the Office of Mili-
tary Government for Germany (U.S.).
These have to be returned for submission
through the Government concerned,
which will, under the interim plan, serve
as a channel for all such claims.

APPROVED PROCEDURE

The approved procedure for restitu-
tion is that the individual will submit his:
claims to his own Government, setting
forth all possible data, i. e., physical
description, name of firm or person who

16

removed the property, full circumstan-
ces surrounding its removal, serial num.
bers, if any, quantity, condition, present
location, etc. A brief summation of the
economic or physical urgency for the
return will assist in determining priori-
ties for restitution.

The Government concerned will sub-
mit consolidated lists of claims, in-

_ cluding the information required above,

and will forward them from time to
time to the Office of Military Govern-
ment for Germany (U.S.), which will
in turn process the claims to the Mili-
tary Government detachment in the area
where the property is alleged to be loca-
ted. The detachment, when it has taken
the property into custody, will notify the
Office of Military Government for Ger-
many (U.S.) and the latter will invite
the claimant nation to send small mis-
sions, preferably of technical experts,
into the U.S. Zone.

These missions will be instructed to
travel to the specific location for the
purpose of identifying and making ar-
rangements for the return of the pro-

--- Page 20 ---
perty to their country. Under no cir-
cumstances will they be allowed to de-
viate from the most direct route to
their destination for purposes of scour-
ing the area for other properties. If the
claimed property is not located in the
area indicated, ‘there is no provision for

other than a negative reply to the
claimant nation.
It is highly probable that at some

time in the future a bi-weekly catalogue
of properties, claimed but not located,
may be issued to Military Government
detachments, requesting that a search
be instituted in their respective areas
for the unlocated properties.

TRANSPORT DIFFICULTIES

The present plan of restitution calls
for the claimant nation to furnish the
transpoftation to move restored pro-
perties back to the country of origin.
It is evident, however, that many of the
nations involved-do not have sufficient
transport to carry out this plan, and it
will become necessary to use rolling
stock now in the U.S. Zone. The coor-
dination .with G-4 (Movements) of
USFET necessary to arrange for this
must be done by the Allied missions
concerned, just as the burden of proof
for identifying claimed properties rests
with them.

Once the claimant nation has pro-
duced satisfactory identification, the
local Military Government Officer will
issue a receipt to be signed by the
accredited representative of the nation
concerned, and the property becomes

17

the responsibility of the signator.
Whether at some future date the re-
stored property will be charged as re-
parations to the country concerned has
not yet been determined. This quali-
fication is to be clearly stated in the
official receipt.

Restitution of rolling stock to the
Allied Nations is going to present many
difficulties. Approximately fifty per cent
of the rolfing stock now jin the U.S.
Zone is Allied property. Thirty per cent
is being utilized by the Military Forces,
leaving twenty per cent to haul fuel,
food, goods, etc., plus passengers. The

‘limited amount of rolling stock in the

latter category is expected to maintain
an economy not only at the basic mini-
mum for Germany but also to supply
the commodities cited above for the
Allied Nations.

Sooner or later conflicting claims for
properties will doubtless arise. This is
most likely to occur with properties like
livestock, goods, etc. — properties not
easily and specifically identified. What
adjudication will be made when _ this
problem arises has not yet been deter-
mined.

Since this policy of restitution has
been publicized, representatives from
Luxembourg, Belgium, Holland and
France have conferred with the Resti-
tution Section on procedures. Instruc-
tions have been given to them, and it is
expected that the first detailed con-
solidated lists will shortly be forth-
coming.

--- Page 21 ---
Revival of Communications

The German Reichspost, now called
the "Department of Communications
and Posts,” is unlike any organization
to be found in the United States. It
might be described as a monopoly on
every means of transmitting the written
or spoken word — including, in many
instances, even personal contact. If, in
the States, we were to consolidate into
one large corporation all telephone
and telegraph companies, the postal
system, a large part of the bus com-
panies, and the radio networks, and
then incorporate such banking services
as checking and savings accounts and
a money-order system that would
enable the housewife and the small
business man to pay their bills by mail,
we might reach an approximation of
the German Reichspost’s scope of
activity.

Few organizations so directly affected
the daily lives of the German people.
To realize the extent of its many fields
of operation and control, one must
accept the fact that every telephone
call made, every postage stamp bought,
every letter mailed, all postal savings
and money orders, every telegram sent,
and even the bus ride to the next village,
were merely a few of the many acti-
vities affected directly or indirectly by
what was called the Reichspost.

"TOTAL FAILURE"

V-E Day marked a "total failure”
that has never been paralleled in the
history of communications. To estimate
accurately the exact condition of com-
munications facilities on that day (or,
for that matter, at any time in the
months that followed) would be the
nearest thing to an impossible assign-
ment. Most of the Reichspost personnel
were party members in good standing,
and they left the sinking ship taking

18

with them many records, both ad-
ministrative and technical, which were
essential for even a fractional operation
of the system. To this loss was added
the destruction of such actual facilities
as radio, telephone, and telegraph tech-
nical equipment, while operational equip-
ment such as buildings, trucks, and even
small items such as post-office scales,
mailbags, tools, etc. together with
stocks of badly-needed supplies, were
damaged or destroyed throughout the
country.

Total failure” was further brought
home by acute personnel shortages.
Personnel difficulties have hampered re-
organization, rehabilitation and opera-
tion to such an extent that it is difficult
to obtain even a vague picture of cur-
rent conditions.

INITIAL EFFORT

By V-E Day there existed in Germany
an extensive network of U.S. Army
communications, destined to become
less valuable as troops consolidated
their positions and units became static
in their locations. Increased distances
and extended networks, combined with
the necessity for providing at least a
minimum service for military and
essential civilian needs, required the use
of the cable and wire facilities of the
Reichspost electrical communications
system. To tie the Reichspost facilities
into the Army commnications net, high-
ly skilled technicians were assigned to
military units and given the mission of
surveying existing facilities, compiling
information, and organizing local re-
habilitation. Their efforts not only re-
sulted in the rehabilitation of a number
of cables, open wire, and other facilities
within a few weeks after V-E day, but
they succeeded ‘also in re-assembling

--- Page 22 ---
many of the acceptable civilian em-
ployees of the Reichspost.

These civilian technicians invariably
brought back with them postal and
other Reichspost employees, who aided
in the rehabilitation job by protecting
the equipment, cleaning out installa-
tions, collecting records and informa-
tion, and laying plans for the resump-
tion of certain essential uncoordinated
local efforts which were to become the
basic foundation for future Reichspost
operation in the whole U.S. Zone. While
it is true that American tactical per-
sonnel were primarily interested in
electrical communications facilities, the
return of the Reichspost personnel who
initially assisted the Military in setting
up the telephone system affected the
return of all available Reichspost
employees to other branches of the or-
ganization.

After the establishment of Military
Government, a number of officers were
assigned to aid in the direction and
coordination of the rehabilitation of
the Reichspost communication systems.
Initially, their time was devoted to the
assembly, interview and screening of
civilian personnel. They authorized the
resumption of essential services, and
collected material on the former opera-
tions of the Reichspost.

EXPANSION

In time, the staff was expanded to
meet the requirements of an accelerated
program. P T&T officers were assigned
to each Reichspost Direktion by Military
Government and the Military Districts
appointed officers to similar positions
embracing the entire district. A Com-
munications Section was established at
USFET as part of the Internal Affairs
Branch of G-5. Final authority for con-
trol and supervision was established with
the Directorate of Communications and

19

Posts, a part of the Allied Control
Council in Berlin.

The ultimate objective of these com-
munications specialists is to establish a
new civil organization for communi-
cations and postal services which would
be capable of providing the facilities
formerly under the Reichspost control.

NEW CIVIL DEPARTMENT

Under the direction of the Allied Con-
trol Council, a new German civil. or-
ganization will be formed — the De-
partment of Communications and Posts,
a central agency, having a headquarters
in Berlin, and exercising administrative
control over all civil communications
and postal services for the country as
a whole. The Department of Communi-
cations and Posts will be a regulatory
body, performing only such operational
functions as may be directed by the
Control Council.

Units subordinate to the Department
are to be known as Directorates of
Communications, German civil operat-
ing units functionally corresponding to
the former ’Reichspost Direktion”. Each
of these Directorates will operate a
geographical area within the Military
Districts, and will have subordinate
offices and bureaus within the area res-
ponsible to the local Military Govern-
ment PT & T officer. Present plans con-
template the retention of the original
areas operated as Reichspost Direktion
(of which there were six in the U.S.
Zone), with headquarters located in
Frankfurt, Niirnberg, Regensburg, Mu-
nich, Stuttgart, and Karlsruhe.

THE IMMEDIATE FUTURE

Pending the establishment of the
Department of Communications and
Posts in Berlin and the assumption of
its administrative responsibility, it is
planned to assemble a highly-qualified
group of German personnel to strength-

--- Page 23 ---
en the staff of a selected Directorate
functioning as the senior Directorate
of the U.S. Zone for administrative
control of the several Directorates
within the Zone.. Similar selection of
Directorates within each Military
District will provide centralized civil
administrative control of the Direc-
torates within each District. All Direc-
torates, however, will come under
direct administrative control of the
Central Department in Berlin, when
established.

HOW MUCH AND HOW SOON

In some respects, a modern nation
may be compared to the human body.
Its communications system, both elec-
trical and physical, like the nervous
system of the body, is the means by
which co-ordination of effort is made
possible. Without it little can be ac-
complished. Many have become con-
cerned, even alarmed, at the thought of
allowing the German people to re-
habilitate their communications. They
picture the use of such a system as the
‘means for a co-ordinated effort against
our Occupation Forces and Military
Government. This, of course, is not im-
possible, but it is certainly not probable.
All types of controlled communications
lend themselves readily to monitoring
and censorship. But when it is considered
that there were only five to seven
telephones for every hundred people

in Germany before the war, and that
by V-E Day this entire system had
virtually ceased to function (a system
which took the German nation some
twenty-odd peaceful years to develop)
it is difficult to foresee under present
conditions the re-establishment of more
than a very small fraction of it.

Good communications in Germany
will assist, rather than endanger, world
security. Acceptable civilians are being
given the task of governing this nation.
Military Government is demanding, inthe
interest of the United Nations, that the
people be fed, clothed, kept warm, and
that a basic essential standard of living
be maintained. If the relatively few ad-
ministrators available are to carry out
the demands of good government and
their responsibility to the people, they
must make the most of their time and
effort.It is only through an organized
communications system that this may
be accomplished. For example, a shipper
of coal must be able to notify a distri-
butor of its arrival; or a Btirgermeister
must be in contact with sources of food
in order to maintain equable and ade-
quate control.

Under present and estimated future
conditions of supply and personnel it
will be very difficult to meet even
essential needs. Even with a hard-pushed,
coordinated effort it will be months
before essential military and civilian
facilities can be provided.

--- Page 24 ---
General

An Analysis of Civil Service

Of interest to Civil Service personnel
now in the Army, considering civilian
employment in this Theater, are USFET
G-1’s analyses of the two types of Civil
Service appointments.

The Classified Appointment, estab-
lished by competitive examination, was
effective prior to 16 March 1942, and
was in permanent status after the initial
probationary period was served. If an
employee was serving under this type
of appointment prior to entry into the
Armed Forces, it will be neccssary for
him to contact the original appointing
agency requesting authority to remain
in the Theater as a civilian employee of
the U.S. Forces, and requesting that his
reemployment rights be retained until
his return to the United States. Unless
such approval is granted, it is necessary
that he report for duty six months after
his discharge from the Army.

The War Service Appointment  in-
cludes all appointments made after 16
March 1942. If an employee is serving
under a service appointment, it is ne-
cessary that he return to his position
within 40 days after discharge from the
Armed Forces, and it is not possible to
extend his military leave of absence or
his reemployment rights.

No Seniority
Civilian employees serving in the
Theater are not eligible to in-grade

promotions (seniority) for Civil Service
appointments while employed in this
Theater.

Meanwhile, all persons seeking civ-
ilian status for service with the Army
in Europe are now entitled to 45 days

21

‘of Germany,

leave, an increase over the previously
announced leave of 30 days duration.

German-wide Census

On 17 September.the Allied Control
Authority directed that an intermediate
census should be taken for all four zones
as of 1 November. The
census, to be based on the ration card
system, will provide the following
statistical breakdowns: by geographical
areas (including Kreis); by age groups;
and by occupations, including pregnant
and nursing mothers.

Weekly Denazification Report

General Adcock, in a letter for distri-
bution to all Military Government de-
tachments, stressed the importance of.
prompt completion and dispatch of the
Weekly Denazification Report, MG/PS/
lA. To eliminate existing delays, he
clarified the current instructions as
follows:

Weekly Denazification Report MG/
PS/I/A will be made out on Saturday
of each week by each Military Govern-
ment detachment and dispatched at the
earliest possible moment thereafter. Co-
pies will be sent direct to Office of Mili-
tary Government (U.S. Zone) and to
Office of Military Government, Ger-
many (U.S.), and through channels to
Regierungsbezirk and Regional detach-
ments and to Headquarters, Military
Districts.

The copies for Office of Military
Government (U.S. Zone) and Office of
Military Government, Germany (U.S.)

--- Page 25 ---
will be placed in “official envelopes and
sealed. The envelopes will be addressed
as follows:
Office of Military Government
(U.S. Zone)
Hq, USFET, APO 757, U.S. Army
Attention: Public Safety Section,
Internal Affairs Branch
DIRECT.
and
Office of Military Government, Ger-
many (U.S.)
APO 742, U.S. Army
Attention: Public Safety Division.
_ DIRECT.

The copies for each of these two
headquarters . . . will be addressed, at
the top of the form, in the same way as
the envelope.

The information copy which is sent
by Kreis detachment to Regierungs-
bezirk detachment will be marked, at
the top of the form:

Copies sent direct (date when sent)
to Office of Military Government, (U.S.
Zone) and to Office of Military Govern-
ment, Germany (U.S.).’”

Food Quota Requirements.

In a measure cracking down on Ger-
man farmers to obtain more food for
the general population, USFET instruc-
ted the Military Districts to notify Mili-

_ tary Government detachments at Regier-

22

ungsbezirk and Kreis levels of crop
and livestock quotas for their areas, and
to instruct them to see that these quo-
tas are met. Failing this, it will be ne-
cessary "that administrative or other
action be taken against German officials
and farmers who fail to enforce or de-
liver the required quotas of farm pro-
ducts.”

In Brief

Plans are now being drawn for in-
creased motion picture showings in ap-
proximately 200 DP camps.in Germany
. . . Production of salt in the U.S. Zone
has reached sufficient tonnage to make
allocations from USFET unnecessary.
Normal civilian channels of supply, pro-
curement, distribution and payment
now prevail... The Military Govern-
ment Financial Officers’ conference,
scheduled for October 30—31, has been
postponed. Detachment commanders will
be advised of the subsequent date when
the meeting is to be held... The
Western Military District has issued a
directive to Regional Detachments for-
bidding the re-sale for profit in com-
mercial channels of textbooks printed
under the auspices of Military Govern-
ment. This does not mean that text-
books may not be sold to individual
pupils or that Germans may not be used
in book distribution.

--- Page 26 ---
German Reactions

A Frankfurt Conservative
Looks at the Local Scene

A recent report from Frankfurt has
some iinteresting observations on the
current situation by a person designated
simply as a “rightist”: "There is much
discussion as to whether the proposal
to deprive former nazis of the right to
vote can be considered consistent with
democratic principles. It is regarded as
a means of the SPD to prevent former
Nazis from joining the extreme leftist

or in particular one of the rightist
parties.
"Deep dejection has been caused

among the population by the news of
the wholesale dismissal of nazi party
members in private industry and bu-
siness. Although the removal .of nazi
and militaristic influence from private
‘business and industry following the de-
nazification of the administration has
long been expected, the immediate and
complete dismissal of all nazi party
members from leading positions in com-
merce and industry will have, so it is
argued, unforeseen consequences. People
stress the impossibility of replacing ex-
perienced members of the board of
directors etc. of large industrial and
commercial enterprises in a short time.

"It is further emphasized how diffi-
cult it will be to remove so many small
businessmen and tradesmen and yet to
secure their services as well as the goods
they produced for the people. People
ask how farms are to be managed if
the owners are relegated to the

position of ordinary farm hands. It is ~

most remarkable that this anxiety
caused by the new policy is felt not

23

only by’ the persons affected but also
by the employees of all categories of
‘private industry as they are of the
opinion that their firms will be deprived
of expert management in many cases.
The population is afraid that produc-
tion will be affected and the already
difficult supply situation disrupted.

"The Indispensable Nazi”

”’Although in general a complete de-
nazification is demanded, many are of
the opinion that after completion of
the denazification program the au-
thorities and businessmen should be
allowed to suggest persons for re-
instatement, believing that they will
best be able to judge which of their
employees were only nominal party
members. The question of depriving
nominai party members of pensions is
also of considerable ‘political signi-
ficance, since it is felt that this order
affects the families (innocent children
who cannot be held responsible for
what their parents did) and will even-
tually create a proletariat which will be
forced to the most radical political side.

"As long as there is no direct com-
munication possible between the Ger-
mans living in the Russian Zone and
those living in the Western Zones so
that the actual conditions prevailing
under Russian supervision cannot be-
come public, there is danger that many
former party members will be driven to
joining the Communist Party.” This
observation, frequently heard, seems

--- Page 27 ---
suspiciously like part of a “line” aimed
at discrediting the new infant demo-
cracy in Germany before it is weaned. ~

*So-called bourgeois, or rightist
circles, ‘are demanding a daily news-
paper reflecting other opinions than
those of the ’Frankfurter Rundschau,”
whose attitude and trend are considered
completely onesided.” In some conser-
vative elements in the city, this paper
is condemned as a.”rank communist
sheet.”

Reaction to Law 8

How Military Government Law No. 8
was received in North Wiirttemberg-
Baden:is analyzed in the brief paragraph
quoted below, taken from the Regionat
detachment’s latest report:

”The promulgation of LawNo.8 brought
to’ a head public reaction towards the
denazification policy . .. The reaction
has been strong, betraying both a feel-
ing of bitterness and despair. The fear
has been expressed that the new law
was not the final word on the subject of
denazification but that, in the future,
elements which were associated with
the German Wehrmacht in one capacity
or another will be subjected to a simi-
lar policy. The tendency has also been
to attribute to the denazification policy
a covert design to destroy the German
economy and to reduce Germany to a
semi-agrarian state.”

Report to Bavarian President

The following miscellaneous . items
come from the recent report. of the
President of a Bavarian Regierungsbe-

24

zirk to the Minister President of that
State.

The recent extension of the postal
service has resulted in a flood of appli-
cants for employment which jis con-
suming much time that should be de-
voted to other functions.

The present quarters of the Regie-
rungsbezirk staff are inadequate and
new ones are urgently needed.

The relaxation of travel regulations
has increased the efficiency of several
departments.

”The large number of Military Gov-
ernment civilian employees has in some
localities (for example LK Traunstein,
where there are 250 such employees).
necessitated setting up special wage
calculating bureaus. The resultant tax
burden is heavy.

”*Work-loads are causing many Biir-
germeister to consider resigning. They
especially object to what they call the
current "paper war’.

The registration requirements of
UNRRA are causing much extra work.

*Many object to ex-soldiers being
given jobs as they are regarded as the
chief supporters of the Third Reich.

”The youth are disinclined to work.
All they know is soldiering.

”The widespread depression of the
people is causing many to turn to for-
tune tellers and the like. In Erding a
dairy hand set himself up as a fortune
teller and had 70 customers consult him
in. one night. . R

With the growing number of those
who have to stand aside, fists are being
clenched in many a pocket.”

--- Page 28 ---
Voices of Experience

MILITARY GOVERNMENT
td),

pes Ae,

GERMANS ASSIST DENAZIFICATION

In Kassel the use of an Advisory
Committee of picked men, known for
their anti-nazi background, in screening
personnel in all departments of the city
administration has proven. extremely
effective. Checks by CIC on actions re-
commended by the Committee show
that it has been 95 per cent correct in
its findings.

NOT SURPRISING

In Germisch,; ‘resentment: over an
officially authorized dance for GI’s and
German girls appears to have been
boosted” by the fact . that Military
Government lent its prestige to the
affair by an official notice.

MILITARY GUARD OVER VD PATIENTS

A Military guard was stationed at the
VD Hospital in Oberosten after several
patients escaped before completion of
treatment. As a further precaution,
clothes were taken from. the women
and conspicuous white uniforms issued.

BLOCKING CONTROL MEASURES

In an effort to increase the effectiveness
of the blocking control measures
instituted by Military Government,
all financial institutions in Frankfurt
were required to receive the following
certificate from their customers: "I
hereby certify that I have not been re-
moved from my position by order of
Military Government, and that I am not
otherwise a person subject to Military

25

Generai
Order No. 1.” In the event bank custo-
mers are willing to execute the certifi-
cate, and if the bank has no independent
knowledge that the customer is subject
to the aforementioned laws, they are
authorized to treat such customers as

Government Law No. 52. or

unblocked persons. In the event the
customers refuse to execute the certi-
ficates, the banks have been ordered to
block immediately all accounts of such
persons and transmit their names to the
local Reichsbank for appropriate action
at that level. -

SMALL-SCALE INTER-ZONAL TRADING
Typical of many small inter-Zonal
trades is that of an individual in RB
Wiesbaden who has negotiated ‘the
following: for each 100 kilos of ferti-
lizer, he receives four or five pigs, ora
cow, in addition to a financial : con-
sideration. In exchange for Wiesbaden
champagne (400 bottles), he gets ferti-
lizer from the Ruhr (400: tons ‘of Tho-
mas Meal), which brings him cattle (50)
and small pigs (500) from Hannover.
Thus, certain Ruhr ‘people ‘drink cham-
pagne, Hannover farmers acquire ferti-
lizer, and meat-short Wiesbaden is sup-
plied with one of its most critical: needs.
The importance of this small trading
in the aggregate cannot be overem-
phasized, because it puts products where
they are wanted in a way that is hardly
possible in large-scale operations.

--- Page 29 ---
P ress Comments

Industry Policies
Under Scrufiny

Discussion of Military Government
policies toward German industry fea-
tured press comment during the past
week, with some commentators voicing
the fear that these policies might result
in the rebuilding of a strong Germany.
Other important topics commanding
press attention were the progress made
during the three months of Allied occu-
pation of Berlin and the plan to use
selected German prisoners of war, in-
doctrinated in democratic processes, to
assist in the civil administration of Ger-
many. The program recently announced
for making German civil authorities re-
sponsible for administration at lower
governmental levels was well covered in
news dispatches from the U.S. Zone.

In a dispatch to The New York Times
from Berlin, Raymond Daniell declared
that the report of Allied economic ex-
perts, expressing the view that Ger-
many must retain some industrial and
export capacity to meet the Potsdam
terms, has "tended to increase Russian
suspicions that the British and Ameri-
cans, while appearing to adhere to the
Potsdam agreement, hope to maintain
a stronger Germany than the Russians
believed was envisaged.”

Commenting on the suggestion that
German industry should aim at pro-
ducing a surplus for export and sale to
other countries, John Vandercook of
NBC asserted that the recommendation
"has given rise to many forebodings in
Europe, which is deathly afraid of
World War Hl,” pointing out that the
Anglo-American policy after the last
war of allowing the rebuilding of a
strong Germany is now generally con-

26

ee
Gi Tye New York Times ey

ceded to have led directly to World
War II.”

H. V. Kaltenborn, in a broadcast, ex-
pressed the opinion, however, that the
mere fact that such a report was made
public is constructive. "It shows that
a sort of analysis was beginning to re-
place justified, but illogical hate, fear
and anger in dealing with the defeated
populations.” :

NO STRENGTH LEFT

In reviewing five months of Allied
occupation, Dorothy Thompson, in the
New York Post, found no evidence that
the Allies were creating a strong Ger-
many. We have totally wrecked Ger-
man industrial life,” she declared. ’That
started with the bombing; it continued,
by the transfer from the Russian Zone
of practically every vestige of machin-
ery; it was furthered by the necessary
removal of active nazis from key
managerial positions, and jit is ac-
celerated by our refusal to recognize
any kind of private initiative which
might spring out of chaos and collapse.”

In an article in PM, I. F. Stone charged
that military authorities, disregarding
their own directives, were building up
the I. G. Farben industrial enterprises.
He asserted that industrial and chemical
experts are being recruited to help in
the reconstruction of the Farben organi-
zation and that when the occupation
forces leave, "Germany will resume
possession of an enormous chemical
trust which can rule world markets in
peace and turn out many implements of
war when occasion demands.”

”The ironic fact is that I. G. Farben is
better off todayunder Army control than

--- Page 30 ---
if it had not been seized,” Stone asserted.
“For if it had not been taken over, it
could not have hoped to import ma-
terials, to recruit American experts for
reconstruction, to command funds. for
these purposes.”

General MacArthur’s recent order to
the Japanese to free political prisoners,
and establish freedom of the press
evoked favorable editorial comment.
Typical was the following from the New
York Herald Tribune: ”This is an ex-
periment so novel in human history as
to demand attention. Almost all other
conquerors have started out with
censorship, the rack, the thumbscrew
and their own brand of control in the
interests of ’order,’ MacArthur happens
to be so strong in Japan that he does
not have to worry unduly about order;
he can therefore make the immediate
institution of freedom his  sternest
dictate — Perhaps MacArthur will prove
one of the greatest boons ever to come
to the Japanese people in their age-long
history.”

Nurnberg Trials

The American press continues to
evidence lively interest in the coming
Niirnberg trials of nazi war criminals,
with editorial comment urging - that
there be no delay in meting out justice
to the guilty.

”Millions of lives have been lost or
blighted because of the wicked deeds of
the gangsters about to go on trial at
Niirnberg,” said the Philadelphia In-
quirer. "There should be no waste of
time in seeing to it that justice is done.”

The importance of establishing the
principle that no nation shall ever again
be permitted to wage aggressive war
was stressed. by a New York Times
editorial. "In. these trials. we shall ap-
parently establish the principle that the
heads of a beaten’ nation must pay
individually,” it -said..”If we do this, we

27.

ought also to establish the principle that
no nation shall ever again go to war,
except when directly attacked or under
the sanction of a world organization.-In
other..words, these trials are directly
linked with the success of. the United
Nations organization. We must have an
absolute test of what constitutes
aggression. That test must be established
in the forthcoming trials, written into
international law that is really law, and
sustained if necessary by the armed
forces of the peacable nations.”

Berlin Experiment

Though difficult problems still await
solution, the Allied occupation of Berlin
— recognized from the. outset as a
testing ground of Allied unity — has
achieved a fair measure of success. This
is the conclusion .of Russell Hill, cor-
respondent of the New York Herald
Tribune, after a survey of the work
done by the Allied occupation auth-
orities during the past three months.

"It can be reported that a measure of
success has been: achieved,” Hill: said.
The representatives of the four Allies
have learned much about each other and
about how to get along with each other.
But it must also be reported that issues
have arisen on which it has so far been
impossible to reconcile differing points
of view.

The Allies have agreed on a host of
problems that have arisen in connection
with every day life in Berlin. The sub-
ways, street cars and busses are run by
the German city authorities under joint
Allied control. Food and coal are being
distributed on a city-wide basis. Agree-
ment has been reached on such varied
matters'as price control, wage levels, the
black market, the rationing of electri-
city and gas, a city lottery, and public
health measures designed to check epi-
demics.”

--- Page 31 ---
. On two major issues, however, the
Allies have failed to reach an agreement*
One. involved the so-called "block
leader” system. The other was the effort
to institute quadripartite control over
the media. of information — the press
and the radio.

"In general, relations between the
Allies have been encouraging,” Hill
declared. "The members of the Kom-
mandatura seem to get along easily
together .. . The Berlin experiment is
not yet over. Many hard problems re-
main to be solved, but the progress that
has been made in these three months
should give considerable grounds for
hope.”

German P W'S

The indoctrination of a selected group
of German prisoners of war, to assist
civil. administrators in Germany, may
prove an experiment of far reaching
significance, the New York Herald Tri-
bune pointed out in an editorial on Oc-
tober 6th.

»Will the scheme work?” the editorial
asked. ”No one can say. The number of
men immediately affected by it is piti-
fully small and the viewpoint expressed
by. Heinrich Hauser in The German
Talks Back’ has long been dominant in
Germany — the fear of the intellectual,
the bourgeois, for the canaille, the mass
mind, the belief in uniforms as a ne-
cessity for the self-respect of the lower
orders and in some mystic concept of
the state as a guide for action. But a
start is being made, the beginning of an
experiment in democracy that may have
profound reactions throughout the
world.”

"Few of the run-of-the-mill Germar
prisoners of war,” according to the
Portland Oregonian, ’will return home
as vigorous proponents of democratic
government in Germany. It is apparent

from the attitudes of these millions of
former Wehrmacht soldiers, that the
United Nations have a long and un-
certain road to travel before the Ger-
man people will have earned the right
to freedom and self-determination.”

Random Comments

"General George Patton has now
passed from current controversy into
history. There he will have an honored
niche. Perhaps he himself will share the
sense of relief his countrymen feel at so
safe and quiet a transfer. He was
obviously in a post which he was un-
fitted by temperament, training or ex-
perience to fill. ..He reaped no laurels
from the peace, but those he won in war
will remain green for a long time.”
Editorial in The New York Times.

* *

"The new chief of the Bavarian civil
administration, Dr. Wilhelm Hoegner,
has a long record of opposing the nazis.
In addition, Dr. Hoegner has some ex-
cellent ideas on the subject of nazis and
public jobs . . . The new Minister Pre-
sident says: ’I am definitely against
keeping nazis in office just to obtain
administrative efficiency’ . . . Since an
oft-proclaimed war aim was the break-
ing of nazi power everywhere, this
should ibe exactly what allied authorities
want. Regardless of nazi ‘efficiency’
there is no place for its agents in the
arduous process of educating the Ger-
mans to the ways of peace and demo-
cracy.” St Louis Post-Dispatch.

* *

“It was not only a stirring but almost
an adventurous journey that I had re-
cently in Germany. On this journey, |
was able to talk once more with my
friends of the past and to reknit the
bonds broken by the war. This brought,
home to me most vividly the rightness
of a view | had held firmly at all times.

--- Page 32 ---
that the German people was never the
uniform block behind Hitler that it. was
declared to be in Goebbel’s propaganda
and could not but seem in the apparent
absence of all open opposition.” Inter-
view with Dr. Karl Barth, eminent Swiss

theologian, in ”Die Weltwoche” of
Ziirich, reprinted in the Manchester
Guardian.

* *

New Army regulations, issued almost
daily in the American Zone of occu-
pation, are impressing the Germans with
the fact that the long road leading to
the field of democratic freedom is
tightly fenced on both sides with good
military barbed wire.” Philip Whitcomb
in Baltimore Sun.

* *

The best hope of convincing the
people of Japan that their true interests
do not lie along the path of international
aggression is to take full advantage of
their quick-witted readiness to learn the
lessons of their present defeat. They
seem eager to adopt democratic forms

in a Japanese version of democracy; and |

from these forms the democratic spirit
may emerge. But the process will de-
mand protracted, as well as patient,
assistance from the Allies.” London

Times.
* *

The solution of the Ruhr problem,
we should think, would lie first of all in

29

placing responsibility for it in the hands
of an International Coal Commission
free from any other cares or obligations.
The commission ought to be quite inde-
pendent of the military authorities in
Germany and ought to have top priority
for the acquisition of food, machinery,
housing and other materials. necessary
to promote full production. There has
already been far too much temporizing
with this problem. Only swift. and
drastic measures can solve it before the
siege of winter sets in.” Editorial in
The New York Times.

* *

"There is one by-product of legalized
fraternization that cannot be over-
looked. That. is that every German
woman and girl alike is intent upon
defending Germany, detracting from the
Russians, attacking England and playing
upon the Americans’ nostalgic heart-
strings to the detriment of all his Allies.”
Raymond Daniell in The New York

Times. ;
* *

”The Renner Government has not only
retained Russian favor: but it appears
about to win recognition from both
Britain and the United States. It would
be a good omen if the big three could
agree on recognizing at peace one of
the governments of the former German
satellite states in Eastern Europe.” H, V.
Kaltenborn in an NBC Broadcast.

--- Page 33 ---
Station List

Military Government Elements

OFFICE OF
UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR

COMMANDING OFFICER

UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

Office of

Mil Govt for

Germany (U.S.) Berlin

Office - of

Mil Govt (U.S. Zone) Frankfurt

WESTERN MILITARY DISTRICT
Seventh U.S. Army
Office of
Mil Govt
(Western

District) Western District

2d Mil Govt Regiment *
Hq 2d Mil Govt Regt Bad Homburg
Hq Co _ Bad Homburg
Sv Co Ober Ursel
‘Ist Maint Plat Zuffenhausen
2d Maint Plat Wetzlar
R.& T Co Bad Homburg
2d MG Med Det Heidelberg

Heidelberg

RR Det (Liaison) Bad Orb

LAND WURTTEMBERG & NORTH BADEN.

E-1 Stuttgart

Wiirttemberg Section
CoA - Stuttgart

Land Wiirttemberg
& North Baden

E-1 Stuttgart Wiirttemberg Section
F-10 | |: Stuttgart SK Stuttgart
F-11. Ulm SK-LK Ulm
G-20 Aalen LK Aalen
G-21 Boblingen LK Boblingen ,
G-22 Crailsheim LK Crailsheim

-23, Esslingen LK Esslingen

“24 ° Gmiind LK Gmiind
G-25 Géppingen LK Géppingen
G26 Schwabisch Hall LK Hall
G-27 Heidenheim LK Heidenheim
G-28 Heilbronn LK Heilbronn
G-29 Ludwigsburg LK Ludwigsburg
G-30 Waiblingen LK Waiblingen
H-50 Backnang LK Backnang
H-51 Heilbronn SK Heilbronn
H-52 Kiinzelsau LK Kiinzelsau __
H-53 Leonberg LK Leonberg
H-54 Bad Mergentheim LK Mergentheim
H-55 Nirtingen LK Nirtingen
H-56 Ohringen LK Ohringen
H-57 Ulm Warehouse Opn
H-58 Vaihingen LK Vaihingen

North Baden Section

CoE Durlach
E-7 Karlsruhe

North Baden Section

F-16 Mannheim SK Mannheim
G-42 Weinheim LK Mannheim
G-43 Heidelberg SK He‘delberg
G-44 Heidelberg LK Heidelberg
G-45 Ettlingen LK Kar!sruhe
G-46 Pforzheim SK Pforzheim

30

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay

Maj Gen C L Adcock

Col M O Edwards

Lt Col N F Hines

Ist Lt A _W Huck

Capt B Halprin

1st Lt E Thompson
Capt B-A Sturdevan
Capt T Candon

Lt Col W H Riheldaffer
Capt F Gladzik

Col W W_ Dawson

Capt O Martin

Col W W Dawson
Lt Col C L Jackson
Lt Col H M Coverly
Maj J K Owen
Capt WA Becker
Lt Cal R L Rogers
Maj J 1 Taylor
Capt E T Casey
Maj S R Marsh
Maj W T Neel
Capt F R Edwards
Maj H M Montgomery
Maj J Lindsay
Capt H W Freeman
Capt G D Burchell
Maj M _L Hoover
Ist Lt H. B. Henry
Capt R S Doetz
Capt S L Haber
Capt S A Warren
1st Lt M Korson
Maj J M Gregory
Capt J G Cox

1st Lt R T Lynch
Col C Lisle

Lt Col R S Smith
Maj B C Barnes
Maj G P Kratz
Capt H D Peterson
Capt J W Green
Maj R B Little

--- Page 34 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

G-47 Karlsruhe
H-87 Bruchsal
H-88 Foudenheim
H-89 Buchen
H-90 Mosbach
H-91 Tauberbischofsheim
H-92 Sinsheim
1-137 Edingen
1-154 Pforzheim

LAND GREAT HESSEN
E-5 Wiesbaden

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

CoD Weilburg
E-5 Wiesbaden
E-6 Frankfurt
F-15 Wiesbaden
G-41 Wetzlar
H-77 Dillenburg

H-78 Gelnhausen

H-79 Hanau -
H-80 Limburg

H-81 Hofheim
H-83 Riidesheim

H-86 Bad Homburg

Regierungsbezirk Kassel

Co C Kirchain
E-4 Kassel
F-14 Kassel
G-38 Fritzlar
G-39 Marburg
G-40 Fulda
G-48 Korbach
H-65 Eschwege

H-66 Frankenberg

H-67 Hersfeld

H-68 Hofgeismar

H-69 Hinfeld

H-70 Melsungen

H-71 Rotenburg

H-72 Kassel

H-73 Witzenhausen

H-74 Ziegenhain
1-144 Wolfhagen
1-161 Homburg

Regierungsbezirk Hessen

Co B Darmstadt
E-3 Darmstadt
F-12 Darmstadt
F-13 Offenbach
G-31 Bensheim
G-32 Biidingen
G-33 Dieburg
G-34 Friedberg
G-35 Giessen
G.-36 Gross Gerau
H-59 Alsfeld
H-60 Erbach
H-62 Lauterbach

SK Karlsruhe

LK Bruchsal
Warehouse Opn
LK Buchen

LK Mosbach
Tauberbischofsheim
LK Sinsheim
Warehouse Opn
LK Pforzheim

Land Great Hesse

RB Wiesbaden

SK Frankfurt

SK Wiesbaden

LK Wetzlar

LK Dillkreis &

LK Biedenkopf

LK Gelnhausen &
LK Schliichtern
SK-LK Hanau

LK Limburg &

LK Oberlahnkreis
LK Maintaunuskreis
LK Rheingaukreis &
LK Untertaunuskreis
LK Obertaunuskreis &
LK Usingen

RB Kassel

SK-LK Kassel

LK Fritzlar-Homberg
SK LK Marburg
SK-LK Fulda

LK Waldeck

LK Eschwege

LK Frankenberg
LK Hersfeld

LK Hofgeismar
LK Hinfeld

LK Melsungen
LK Rotenburg
Warehouse Opn
LK Witzenhausen
LK Ziegenhain
LK Wolfhagen
GM Homburg: .

RB Hessen

SK Darmstadt
SK Offenbach
LK Bergstrasse
LK Biidingen
LK Dieburg

LK Friedberg
SK Giessen
LK.Gross Gerau
LK Alsfeld

LK Erbach

LK Lauterbach

34

DIRECTOR OR

COMMANDING OFFICER

Maj M S Pullen

Capt A F Thompson
Maj H E Kring

Capt J A McGuinness
Maj N O Moore

Capt J S Mayer

Capt G O Withey
Capt R L Shadwick
Ist Lt J R Bolin

Col J R Newman

Capt J L Savannah
Col J R Newman
Lt Col R K Phelps
Maj F A Sansome
Lt: Col E M Lee

Maj DB Bernstein

Maj M E Chotas
Maj T Turner Jr

Capt E F Duffy
Capt F S Percy Jr

Maj J G Gavin
Capt M M Campbell

Ist Lt J F Owen

Lt Col.A Skarry

Maj R Bard

Maj R A Gish

Lt Col T A Brown
Capt E J Dikeman
Maj J R Chambliss
Capt A W Moore
Capt L E Morris

Capt G § Iredell

1st Lt S B Borda

Capt H H Liebhafsky
Capt TT Turnbull Jr
Ist Lt P J Zeller
Capt J R Newell

Capt W E. Getman
Capt O. R. Schrimshaw
Capt C. E. Mullen

Ist Lt L. J. McKannay

1st Lt AL Husted, Jr (actg)
Lt Col W T Burt (actg)
Lt Col L G Kelly

Maj C G Martins (actg)
Capt A C Leggatt
Capt L S. LaPrade

Maj E T Cusiek

Maj R J. Willard

Capt J S Chapin

Capt R.L Patten

Capt W P Burkes
Capt L A Claff'

Capt H Nickelsberg

--- Page 35 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR

COMMANDING OFFICER

Bremen Sub-District

E2c2 Bremen

G1C2 Wesermiinde

H4C2 Osterhoiz-Scharmbeck
110C2 Loxstedt

111C2 Brake

112C2 Nordenham

Office of

Mil Govt for

Bavaria} Munich

Hq 3d Mil Govt Regt. Augsburg
Hq Co Augsburg

Sv Co Augsburg

1st Maint Plat Augsburg

2d Maint Plat Uttenreuth

3d Maint Plat Straubing
R&T Co Augsburg
3d MG Med Det Munich
3d MG Med Sec Augsburg

LAND BAYERN

E-201 Munich
Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken
Co A Ochsenfurt
E-202 Wirzburg
F-210 Wirzburg
G-220 Aschaffenburg
G-221 Schweinfurt
H-250 Bad Kissingen
H-251 Kitzingen
1-330 Aizenau
1-331 Briickenau
1-332 Ebern
1-333 Gemiinden
1-334 Gerolzhofen
1-335 Hammelburg
1-336 Hassfurt
1-337 Hofheim
1-338 Karlistadt
1-339 Kénigshofen
1-340 Lohr
1-341 Marktheidenfeld
1-342 Mellrichstadt
1-343 Miltenberg
1-344 Neustadt Salle
1-345 Obernburg
1-346 Ochsenfurt

Bremen Sub-District
SK Bremerhaven

LK Osterholz

LK Wesermiinde

LK Wesermarsch

GM Nordenham

EASTERN MILITARY DISTRICT

Third U.S. Army

Eastern District

3d Mil Govt Regt

Land Bayern

RB Mainfranken
SK-LK Wiirzburg
SK-LK Aschaffenburg
SK-LK Schweinfurt
LK Kissingen

LK Kitzingen

LK Alzenau

LK Briickenau

LK Ebern

LK Gemiinden

LK Gerolzhofen

LK Hammelburg
LK Hassfurt

LK Hofheim

LK Karlstadt

LK K6nigshofen

LK Lohr

LK Marktheidenfeld
LK Mellrichstadt
LK Miltenberg

LK Neustadt a. d.-Salle
LK Obernburg

LK Ochsenfurt

Regierungsbezirk Ober & Mittelfranken

Co C Ansbach
E-203 Ansbach

F-211 Niraberg
G-228 Ansbach
G-229 Firth

H-261 Dinkelsbiih!
H-262 Eichstadt
H-263 Feuchtwangen :;
H-264 Gunzenhausen
H-265 Hersbruck
H-266 Hilpoltstein

RB Ober & Mittelfranken
SK-LK Niirnberg

SK-LK Ansbach

SK-LK Fiirth

LK Dinkeisbiih!

LK Eichstadt

LK Feuchtwangen

LK Gunzenhausen

LK Hersbruck

LK Hilpoltstein

32

Lt Col B C Welker
Lt Col L S Diggs
Maj J R Reed
Capt J F Flyan
Capt ML Krauss
Capt G R Zeek

Brig Gen W. J. Muller

Col G. D. Girawford
Ist Lt Wm Irwin
Capt J O'Malley
Capt J O’Malley

Ist Lt C Casper

Ist Lt C. T. Enbody
Ist Lt T J May

Lt Col C Shields
Capt H S Price

Brig Gen W. J. Muller

Ist Lt H A Lenert

Lt Col M E Henderson
Maj J B Bradford
Maj C M Emerick
Maj A S Grove

Capt M A Potter
Capt J B Lynn

Maj E E Shovea
Capt H B Clark Jr
Capt S L Tulin

Capt K N Galloway
Capt W J Tonkin
Capt E H Emery
Capt T F Griffen
Capt W Hitt

1st Lt W E Brayden
Capt A W Peterson
Capt Elmer E Kelly
Capt M B Voorhees .
Capt J. J. Schaller (actg)
Capt D J Huffman

1st Lt E. F Warnke
Capt B H Logan
Capt H A Storm

1st Lt G N Hultzen
Col E M Haight
Col C H_ Andrews
Maj W R Whitaker
Capt J D Cofer
Maj J. W. Hall

Maj W T Staats
Capt C E Wilhelm
Maj H W Zarn
Maj F M Danbaugh
Maj H T Lund

--- Page 36 ---
OFFICE OF

UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT _

H-267 Weissenburg LK Weissenburg
H-268 Rothenburg LK Rothenburg
H-269 Schwalbach LK Schwalbach
H-270 Scheinfeld LK Scheinfeld
H-271 Windsheim LK Uffenheim .
H-272 Lauf LK Lauf
H-273 Neustadt a. d. Aisch LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch
CoB Bamberg
G-222 Bamberg SK-LK Bamberg
G-228 Bayreuth SK-LK Bayreuth
G-224 Erlangen LK Erlangen
G-225 Coburg SK-LK Coburg
G-226 Kronach LK Kronach
G-227 Hof SK-LK Hof
G-247 Lichtenfels LK Lichtenfels
H-252 Ebermannstadt LK Ebermannstadt
H-253 Hoehstadt LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
H-254 Kulmbach LK Kulmbach
H-255 Pegnitz LK Pegnitz
H-256 Munchberg LK Munchberg
H-258 Rehau LK Rehau
H-259 Wunseidel LK Winseidel
H 260 Forcheim LK Forcheim

1-347 Naila LK Naila

1-348 Stadtsteinach LK Stadtsteinach

Regierungbezirk Niederbayern & Oberpfalz

Co D
E-204
F-212
G-230

H-274
H-275
H-276
H-277
H-278
H-279
1-349
1-350
1-351
1-352
1-353
1-354
1-355

Regensburg
Regensburg
Regensburg
Weiden

Amberg
Burgtengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunburg
Eschenbach
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldmiinchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Regensburg
Passau

Cham
Landshut
Straubing
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsiburg
Freyung
Bogen
Plattling
Dingolfing
Griesbach

RB Niederbayern & Oberpfalz
SK-LK Regensburg

SK Weiden &

LK Neustadt a. d. Wald
SK-LK Amberg

LK Burglengenfeld

LK Parsberg

LK Tirschenreuth

LK Neunburg vorm Wald
LK Eschenbach i. d. -Opf.
LK Kemnath

LK Nabburg

LK Oberviechtach

LK Riedenberg

LK Vohenstrauss

LK Roding

LK Waldmiinchen

LK Beilngries

LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg

SK-LK Passau
LK Cham

SK-LK Landshut
SK-LK Straubing
LK Deggendarf
LK Eggenfelden
LK Grafenau

LK Kelheim

LK Landau a. d. Isar
LK Pfarrkirchen
LK Regen

LK Vilshofen

LK Vilsiburg

LK Wolfstein
LK Bogen

Sp. Branch Det
LK Dingolfing
LK Griesbach

33

DIRECTOR OR

COMMANDING OFFICER -

Maj W S Bailey
Capt R C Anderson
Capt R H Stringer
Maj H C Kauffmann
Capt R E Stringer
Capt E N Humphrey
Maj H L Woodall
Capt W H Cox

Maj J A Watkins
Lt Col C J Reilly
Lt Col H Hargrave
Maj H Lockland

Lt Col D Patlette
Maj A R Giroux
Maj J R-Case

Capt W_H Hobbs
Maj P E Bruehl
Maj P B Lamson
Maj M F Skinner
Maj A C. Abbott
Capt R H Dodds
Capt D H Alexander
Lt Col F: Robie
Capt H W Newell
Capt J R Golden

Capt V_ A Grasso
Lt Col Hasting
Lt Col S S Speaks

Capt R A Rosan

Maj Mattox

Capt E. Fichter

Maj H J Mrachek
Capt F P Murray -
Maj J J Egan

Capt W R Baylies
Capt W G Montpas
Capt G Doyle

Capt R A Berry
Capt C V Hansen

Ist LtC. A. Harrington (actg)
Capt C R Buchheit
Capt J E Hudson
Capt J J Mallon *‘
Ist Lt W N Blanton
Capt S. E. Prail

1st Lt O G Savelli

Lt Col F W Hanger
Maj C E McDaniel:
Capt A J Wann

Maj H T. Olsen

Capt L C Smallenberger
Capt E W. Manning
Capt W J Fitzpatrick
Capt O DeBogdan
Maj R_M Stribling
Capt W D Baird
Capt A R Sphar
Capt W. J. Fitzpatrick

Capt J W Fleshman
Capt R W Douglass
Capt A G Albert
Capt E. C. Johnson
Capt B E Reichbardt
Capt A J GaHant

--- Page 37 ---
UNIT

1-379
1-380
1-381
1-382
1-383
1-385

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Co F
E-205
F-213
G-236
G-237
G-238
H-286
H-287
H-288
H-289
H-290
H-291
1-362
1-364
1-365
1-367
1-368
Co E
G-231
G-232
G-233
G-234
G-235
H-280
H-281
H-282
H-283
H-284
H-285
H-311
1-361

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

CoG
E-206
F-214
G-239
G-240
G-241
G-242
H-292
H-293
H-294
H-295
H-296
H-297
H-298
H-299
H-300

1-369

1-370

1-372

1-373

1-374

LOCATION
K6tzting
Mainburg
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
Wegscheid

Munich
Munich
Munich
Partenkirchen
Ingolstadt
Munich
Fiirstenfeldbruck
Landsberg
Pfaffenhofen
Starnberg
Weilheim
Wolfratshausen
Aichach
Schrobenhausen
Munich
Dachau
Schéngau
Wasserburg
Freising
Miesbach
Traunstein
Altotting
Rosenheim
Erding

Laufen
Mihldorf
Wasserburg
Bad Tolz
Aibling
Berchtesgaden
Ebersberg

Ziemetshausen
Augsburg
Augsburg
Dillingen
Weissenhorn
Sonthofen
Kempten
Donauwérth
Ginzberg
Markt Oberdorf
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Nordlingen
Fiissen
Krumbach
Illertissen
Kaufbeuren
Wertingen
Friedberg
Schwabmiinchen

OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LK K6tzting

LK Mainburg
LK Mallersdorf
LK Rottenburg
LK Viechtach
LK Wegscheid

RB Oberbayern
SK-LS Munich

LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen
SK-LK Ingolstadt
LK Munich

LK Fiirstenfeldbriick
LK Landsberg

LK Pfaffenhofen

LK Starnberg

LK Weilheim

LK Wolfratshausen
LK Aichach

LK Schrobenhausen
Bavarian Supply
LK Dachau

LK Schingau

LK Freising

LK Miesbach

LK Traunstein

LK Altotting
SK-LK Rosenheim
LK Erding

LK Laufen

LK Miihidorf

LK Wasserburg
LK Tolz

LK Aibling

LK Berchtersgaden
LK Ebersberg

RB Schwaben
SK-LK Augsburg
LK Dillingen

LK Neu Ulm

LK Sonthofen
SK-LK Kempten ©
LK Donauwérth

LK Giinzberg

LK Mart Oberdorf
LK Memmingen

LK Mindelheim

LK Neuberg a. d. Donau
LK Nordlingen

LK Fiissen

LK Krumbach

LK Illertissen

LK Kaufbeuren

LK Wertingen

LK Friedberg

LK Schwabmiinchen

34

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Capt E. L. Davis, Jr.
Capt W Wickersham
Capt S R Jacobs
Capt E A Russo
Capt J F Vaile
Capt H Walter

Ist Lt J MacDonough
Lt Col J W Hensel
Lt Col E Keller Jr
Maj C H Heyl (actg)
Capt L H Norins
Maj M T Mawrence
Capt J J McBride
Capt C A Rein
Capt C A Sloat
Capt M Shellenberger
Maj E C Wills

Capt C H Bischoff
Capt L. R. Day
Capt R G Hill Jr
Capt F S Franke

lst Lt V A Burke
Capt C E Carlsen
Capt J T Collier
Capt A G Snow
Maj LL Haupt

Capt F L Tracy
Capt R L Montague
Maj R G MacDonald
Capt H J Bierman
Capt S L Jones Jr
Maj C E Vickerman
Capt M J Groves
Maj J Letteriello
Maj E J Newmeyer
Capt M E DiPietro
Capt G E Horwath

Ist Lt O Meirhenry
Lt Col R L Hiles
Lt Col R A Norton
Maj C F Baker
Maj J A Blakemore
Maj A B Ebbers
Ist Lt B M Ziegler
Maj H L Snapp
Capt J G Horrell
Ist Lt J O Renalds
Maj R F Wagner
Maj E C Bunker
Capt W H Oswalt
Capt S H Brown
Capt T R Schweer
Ist Lt L. E. Dunn >
Capt W S Reed
Maj E M Ross
Capt R E Hale
Maj P S Webb .
Ist Lt L E Smith

--- Page 38 ---
OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR

UNIT LOCATION _MILITARY GOVERNMENT — COMMANDING OFFICER
U.S. MILITARY DISTRICT — BERLIN
Office of
Mit Govt
(U.S. Sector
Berlin) Berlin Col F L Howley

Detachments Disbanded:
2d Mil Govt Regt:

Co C: E-2
Co D: H-76, H-82, H-84, H-85, 1-149.
Co E: F-17

3d Mil Govt Regt:

Co H: Note: Orders disbanding Detachments
1-376 and 1-379 have been
rescinded.

35

--- Page 39 ---
