--- Page 2 ---
No. 15 — 3 November 1945

Military Government

Weekly
Information Bulletin

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
WESTERN MILITARY DISTRICT
GREAT HESSE, NORTH WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

23 OCTOBER i945

HOFGEIS-

MAR
oS hwo 8
’

WALDECK cies,

(Hagen) & 3

Hf |AUSEN>,
A caw ti
UNGEN
FRANKENBERG US en ir21 ah we
Men seme’ & RoTensurs

BRITISH ZONE

Pree i, Vem
ziecen- ‘V/
OPF cnsone HAIN. ( HERSFELD
DULL

raat

WNFELO, RUSSIAN

ral

?

4

( Ls

; eh fees?) : FbLbA | ZONE
( <
e

HAUSEN

?
FRENCH
i

ee,
LEGEND WAIBLINGEN
emiino
RED REGIERUNGSBEZIRKE AND 7 Ln ae
LANDESBEZIRK BADEN c 66 77 VL, sorringe:
BLACK — LANDKREISE AND STADTKREISE (
uf ZONE
ls
{ wm 5 0 10 20. 30 40 so
. MILES: a STATISTICS SECTION
SOURCE OMG-R&I BRANCH v3 - =C GEN STAFF USFET

--- Page 4 ---
No. 15— 3 NOVEMBER 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---
CONTENTS

PAGE

Military Government Letters and Instructions Issued This Week

General Eisenhower's Statement .

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY .
Control Council Legislation
Back from the Salt Mines . Lo
Towards Bringing Materials to Industry .

GENERAL .
Reactivation of Political Life in Wiesbaden

Irrevocable Statement Revoked for Military Government
Officers .

Home Gardens Emphasized
Reports Requirements .

DP's in Medical Schools .
In Brief .

Postal Items

GERMAN REACTIONS
A Free Press and the Future .
The Need for Re-education Recognized
"Good Old Uncle Doc” .

VOICES OF EXPERIENCE
The Kassel Detachment and the DPs .

PRESS COMMENTS
Bricks and Bouquets for Occupation .
German Crisis
Atom-Bomb Control
Berlin Politics
Moscow Report .

Random Comments

Station List

3

12

14
14

16
17
17
17
18
18

19
19
20
20

22
22

25
25
26
26
26
27
27

30

--- Page 6 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT LETTERS AND
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED DURING THE WEEK

Amendments to the Directive to Commanding Generals, Military
Districts, dated 7 July, 1945, Subject: Administration of Military
Government in the U. S. Zone of Germany.

Amendment to Section VIl Education and Reli-
gious Affairs

Amendment to Part 1 (Education), Section VII (Edu-
cation and Religious Affairs) . . Lo

Amended Section XXI (Control of Information
Services) . rn

Amendment to Control Council Proclamation No. 3
originally issued as Annex "I-1" to Section XXIV
(Military Government Legislation) .

Control Council Laws No. 1 and 2 issued as annexes

"J-1" and "J-2" of Section XXIV .

Amendment to Section XXV (Reports) on Adminis-
tration of Military Government in the U. S. Zone
of Germany

Amendments to Section XXV (Reports)

Removal and Exclusion of Nazis and Militarists from all Employ-
ments under the Control of the Commanding General, United
States Forces, European Theater

Visits of German Civilians to this Headquarters
Notice of Arrest .

Reparations

Functions of U. S. Consular Offices when established in Germany

Restoration of German Inland Waterways System in the U. S.
Zone (Issued by Office of the Chief Engineer)

Authorization for Use of Commercial Gold and Silver for Ar-
ticles to be purchased by Army Exchange Service

3

29 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

25 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

22 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

25 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

20 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

30 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)
(Confidential)

15 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

30 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

29 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

" 26 October 1945 (file

AG 013.1 GEC-AGO)

26 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

24 Oct. 1945 (file AG
091.112 GEC-AGO)

25 October 1945 (file
AG 814 GDS-AGO)

24 October 1945 (file
AG 400 GEC-AGO)

--- Page 7 ---
LETTER FROM GENERAL OF THE ARMY EISENHOWER

U. S. FORCES, EUROPEAN THEATER
Office of the Commanding General

25 October 1945

TO: The Field Personnel of Military Government

You are the representatives of the United
States in Germany who carry our policies direct
to the Germans. It is from you that they learn to
know and respect Americans.

I wish that I could visit each of your areas
personally. There are too many for one man to
cover so I have asked my Army Commanders and my
own Military Government Staff to visit with you
to discuss your problems on the ground.

Yours is a difficult task. Whatever goes wrong
is laid on your shoulders; your accomplishments
are taken for granted.

You must have confidence in yourself and in your
mission to convey your messages to the Germans.

I wish to congratulate you on what you have
succeeded in accomplishing in the past six months.

I wish to assure you that you have the confidence
of your commanders and they have mine.

AD ty KP lain keer

--- Page 8 ---
Highlights of P olicy

SINCE its inception, the Allied
Control Authority, in emplementa-
tion of the Potsdam Agreement, has
enacted in unanimous agreement six-
teen Directives, three proclamations,
five Laws, and one Order. In one of the
most significant experiments in inter-
national co-operation ever to be at-
tempted (and more difficult of achieving
success from an administrative point
of view because of the requirement for
unanimous assent) this record, which
at first glance seems like a relatively
thin file of papers, is in fact a remark-
ably comprehensive achievement.

METHODS OF LEGISLATION

The definitions of the five types of
legislation (set forth in Directive No.
11) by inference further define the
broad scope of the powers and interests
of the Control Authority. They are:

Proclamations: "to be issued to an-
nounce matters or acts of special im-
portance to the occupying powers or
to the German people, or both.” Three
have thus far been issued. The first
announced to the German people the
establishment of the Control Council,
and the second is an assertion of the
supreme authority defined in the first,
outlining the extent of control which
the Council had assumed. The third
defines the fundamental principles of
judicial reform, setting forth the thesis
of equality before the law, the guaran-
ties of the right of the accused, and the
independence of the judiciary. This

conrrot counci. Legislation

The Up-To-Date Record of the Allied
Control Council

proclamation also provides for the
liquidation of extraordinary Hitler
courts.

Laws: ”to be enacted on matters of
general application, unless they express-
ly provide otherwise.” Five have thus
far been enacted. Law No. 1 was the
Law Repealing Nazi Laws; No. 2, the
Law Providing for the Termination
and Liquidation of the Nazi Organiza-
tions; No. 3, the Law on the Increase
in the Rates of Taxation; No. 4, the
Law for the Reorganization of the Ger-
man Judicial System, and No. 5, the
Law for the Vesting and Marshalling
of German External Assets.

Orders: ’to be issued in other cases
when the Control Council has require-
ments to impose on Germany and when
laws are not used.” One has been issued
to date, prohibiting the wearing of the
uniform by disbanded personnel of the
former German. armed forces.

Instructions: to be issued in cases
when the Control Council wishes to
impose requirements direct upon a
particular authority.”

Directives: to communicate policy
or administrative decisions of the
Control Council.” The first six, and
the eighth, deal with the activation of
the Control Council’s machinery
(which is described in detail in issue

--- Page 9 ---
13 of the BULLETIN). Directive No. 7
delegates the task of assignment of
responsibility for study and recom-
mendations to implement decisions
of the Potsdam Conference, including
establishment of central German ad-
ministrative departments of finance,
transport, communications, foreign
trade, and industries.

Directive No. 9 outlines the respon-
sibilities of the Legal Directorate in
developing policies and procedures re-
garding major war criminals. No. 10
describes the official languages (Eng-
lish, Russian, and French) and states
that publications of legislation of the
Council and the Berlin Kommandatura
will be published in all three. It further
specifies that, though a translation shall
also be issued in German whenever the
legislation is designed to regulate or
govern the people of Germany (or Ger-
man officials or agencies), the validity
of any legislation does not depend upon
its issuance or publication in German.
The 10th Directive also states that from
time to time a Gazette will be published
containing all of the legislation of the
Council. No. 11 outlines Control Coun-
cil methods of legislation (as defined in
this article), and No. 12 directs that
copies of all legislation issued within
each Zone, as well as information on
German courts and law, be submitted

to the Secretariat of the Control Coun-
cil in order to avoid duplication of
effort and render mutual assistance.
The 13th Directive establishes procedure
on the preparation of Control Council
legislation.

The 14th sets forth the Allied Wage
Policy, and is probably of more direct
interest to Military Government at
lower levels than any of the other
Directives in that, on the premise that
during the period of occupation Ger-
many shall be treated as a single econo-
mic unit, common policies are estab-
lished for all Zones in regard to wages,
prices, and rationing. Directive No. 15
announces the Adoption of a Standard
Time throughout Germany, and No. 16
defines Council policy on the Rearming
of German Police.

Control Council legislation will over-
ride corresponding legislation previous-
ly enacted by SHAEF or USFET. The
earlier legislation will not, however, be
considered supplanted except as the
new Control Council legislation covers
the same ground. Where a part but not
all of the subject matter of the SHAEF
or USFET legislation is dealt with, the
part not included in the Control! Council
legislation will continue in effect unless
the result necessarily involves an in-

‘consistency with the new legislation.

--- Page 10 ---
WHEN, early in May, Third Army
officers reached the small town of Alt
Aussee, high in the spectacularly moun-
tainous country about 75 miles north-
east of Salzburg, they found a salt mine
above the town where, deep in a
mountainside. was located one of the
greatest collections of fine art in the
world. The art, collected” in the main
from every country occupied by Ger-
many during the war years, had been
scheduled for destruction by the nazis
_ in order to prevent its ’desecration” by
the American forces. On orders from
the Gauleiter of Oberdonau, SS troops
had transported to the mine eight big
cases, marked: ’Marble — Don’t Drop.”
Had their contents been properly placed
and detonated, it would have wrecked
the seven huge works (in which re-
posed, among other things, some 10,000
paintings) by rendering them com-
pletely inacessible and flooding them
with water.

Fortunately for the countries to
which the massive treasure belongs, an
art expert working at the mine, in
connivance with a few others who
knew the salt works well, was able to
place the charges in such a way that
the tunnels. which were destroyed did
not actually render the repositories
inaccessible, since the interior ap-
proaches are a honeycomb of passage-
ways. The Gauleiter had to flee before
his order to have the art technician shot
could be carried out.

THE ALT AUSSEE MINE
Aside from the art which the re-
pository contained, the mine itself was

BACK
from the Salt M | N ES

The Restitution of Fine Art is a Weird
Odyssey

found to be an extraordinary place. Its
one entrance gives access to a hori-
zontal tunnel burrowed for at least a
mile inside the mountain. (The other
salt mines used as repositories in Ger-
many and Austria are accessible by ver-
tical schafts, one of which is 3,000 feet
deep.)

The art repositories could be reached
by a small eighteen-inch-wide track,
mounting a tiny engine capable of
dragging six or eight dollies. It consists
of seven ”Werke”, each of which is a
series of vast vaulted chambers. The
origin of these salt works is lost in
antiquity. It is known that they were
active a thousand years ago, though
legend claims that they are three
thousand years old. For the last five
hundred. years they may have been work-
ed by the same families in which ‘in-
breeding has produced a curious kind
of salt-mine clan, apparently generally
smaller than average and speaking a
pronounced dialect unique ito the tribe.

The chambers of the mine, which are
all electrically illuminated, were prac-
tically perfect repositories for paint-
ings. The summer temperature is a steady
40 degrees fahrenheit (rising, oddly
enough, to 47 in winter). Constant
temperature and practically ideal hu-
midity meant that the pictures suffered
little, whereas the fine collection of
renaissance armor, including gold and
silver-inlay dress armor (which had
belonged to Franz Ferdinand of. Sara-

--- Page 11 ---
jevo fame), had to be kept heavily
coated with grease because of the ten-
dency of the: metal to oxidize. The
chambers were also equipped with fa-
cilities for restoration, racks for 14,000
paintings and adequate flooring. Plans
were completed for reception of still
more treasure. In addition to the 10,000
paintings brought to Alt Aussee in the
two last years of the war, the nazis
had assembled masses of sculpture in
the form of altarpieces, religious statues
and hundreds of 18th-century French
and Italian furniture, rugs, tapestries,
etc. There was so much in the mine
that it took two and ahalf months to
clear it out through the single tunnel
available.

ART COLLECTING POINTS
ESTABLISHED

The Armed Forces, anticipating the
problem of restitution of these vast
collections and restoration of the Ger-
man national treasure which had been
so protected from bombardment, were
prepared to. establish collecting points
for art and other cultural material as
soon.as suitable and strategically located
buildings could be found. Thus there
are now in the U.S. Zone collecting
points at Munich, Marburg, Wiesbaden,
and .Offenbach, which are currently
processing arts and documents being
evacuated from six main underground
repositories, of which Alt Aussee is the
largest. These points, now housing both
cultural material requiring evacuation
as a protective measure, or material
suspected of being loot, will ultimately
become clearing houses through which

displaced works of art can be appro-
priately redistributed.

Munich is the largest of the four col-
lecting points, and its establishment and
operation is the most complex. By
reason of the vast amount of looted art,
objects in the Third Army area, the ur-
gent need for a large, central collec-
ting center was felt early in the occu-
pation of Germany. The two enormous
nazi buildings in Munich were chosen
as the site (in one of these landmarks
the Munich Pact was signed) and ur-
gent repairs and construction, including
the blocking off of a network of un-
derground passageways, were completed
by the end of June. Because the Munich
collecting point employs a large num-
ber of Germans (who have been care-
fully screened) and its treasures are of
inestimable value to to all of Europe,
extraordinary securitiy measures were
instituted.

The processing of such vast amounts
of art, still growing as apparently end-
less convoys reach the Collecting Point
daily, involves complicated clerical and
statistical procedures. An Arts Docu-
ments Center has.been established in
Munich to.record information on sus-
pected loot. Such documents as the re-
cords — photographic and otherwise
—. of the notorious Einsatzstab Rosen-
berg, which handled works of art
taken from Jewish private collections,
form a large portion of the docu-
mentary material. Likewise, detailed in-
formation on the far-reaching activi-
ties of Géring’s agents in their comb-
ing of Europe for the purpose of buil-
ding the Reichsmarschall’s collection is

The Cracow altarpiece, one of Poland’s great national treasures, was dismantled by the Poles early in the
war and subsequently removed to Germany. It was discovered in an underground repository in Nurnberg,
where if had been stored together with other religious art. Done by a German, Veit Stoss, who had been
called by the King of Poland in 1477 to execute the work, it required ten years to complete. its central
panel and eighteen sections, twelve of which are shown here. When assembled, the altarpiece stands 25
feet high and 15 feet wide. The figures, which are ten feet high, are carved in lindenwood. The Germans
considered that since a German artist had created this work it rightly belonged to the country of his origin.

--- Page 12 ---


--- Page 13 ---
available at Munich. It is also intended
to obtain for the Documents Center
further data pertaining to Hitler’s
purchases for his proposed great mu-
seum at Linz. Inasmuch as substantial
portions of these collections are ac-
tually stored at the Collection Point,
the desirability for full documentation
is obvious.

TOKEN RESTITUTIONS

While the work of documentation
continues, efforts are being made to
return the works to their rightful
owners. Token restitutions, primarily
gestures made in anticipation of the
mass return of art once it has been
separated and documented, are now

being effected. The first instance of
such restitution was the Brothers Van

Eyck’s "Adoration of
Lamb”, which was flown
several weeks ago. Another, Michel-
angelo’s "Madonna and Child” has
been returned to Bruges, while 71 top-
flight paintings looted in France have
been returned to their rightful owners.
Twenty-six paintings, including four
very fine Rembrandts (among them his
last self-protrait) were returned to the
Netherlands. The Czechs have received
the nine-panelled altarpiece by the
14th-Century Master of Hohenfurth,”
and the highly-valued National collec-
tions of the Army Museum at Prague.
Plans are under way to return to
Cracow the great altarpiece of the
Mariakirche.

Mass restitution of art will require
increasing responsibility on the part of

the Mystic
to Brussels

Michelangelo's "Madonna and Child”, an early work, is shown here being evacuated from the Alt Aussee

mine. It was brought from Bruges in the spring of the year. "To save it from the barbarity of the Americans”

this treasured possession of Belgium was dumped into a mattress and brought across the breadth of

Germany over roads which were constantly being strafed by Allied planes. Fortunately, the marble was
undamaged, and has been returned to Belgium as token restitution.

10

--- Page 14 ---
the liberated areas concerned, and ar-
rangements are being made for each
claimant nation to send representatives
whose task will be to take possession
and assume responsibility for the phy-
sical return of the treasures in question.

The Netherlands, Belgium and France
have already sent representatives to
Munich. The latter nation has thus far
assembled a 21-car train full of art for
return to Paris. In time, it is anticipated
that the Germans themselves, operating
under Military Government — super-
vision, will take over from the Ameri-
can authorities the task of running the
collecting points. Meanwhile, art con-
tinues to roll into the four centers, which

11

will ultimately return to brighten the
halls from which they came — such as
are still standing.

So voracious were the nazis in their
efforts to a mass treasure that there are
to be found collections taken even from
the satellites — from Hungary, Ru-
mania, and Italy, from which, for ex-
ample, the Hermann Goring Division
took the treasures of Monte Cassino.
Art in the salt mines, madly collected
from all of Europe, seems like the
pathetic symbol of a sterile dictator-
ship’s effort to enrich the nation. Its
recovery and restitution have become
one of the weirdest aftermaths of the
war.

--- Page 15 ---
Towards Bringing Materials to

INDUSTRY ;

The framers of the Potsdam Agree-
ment envisaged the future Germany as
an integral economic entity, and to this
end they adopted a policy permitting
as free and unrestricted trade within
and between the four occupation zones
as is practicable.

In a far-reaching move to implement
this policy in the U.S. Zone, Military
Government restrictions on the free
flow of trade and commerce have been
lifted on any and all goods and services
except those in critically short supply.
At the same time, instructions were
issued to eliminate restrictions on tra-
vel and communication by German
civilians to the maximum extent prac-
ticable in order to permit German gov-
ernmental agencies and private enter-
prises to carry out the intent of this
policy.

Military Government Offices below
zonal level have been directed not to
impose any future restrictions upon
trade and commerce. The Office of
Military Government (U.S. Zone) may
maintain or impose such restrictions,
but only on a limited list of essential
items, which are in critically short
suppiy, as indicated by the Office of
Military Government for Germany
(U.S.).

RATIONED ITEMS STILL CONTROLLED

Continued centralized control by
Military Government of the excepted
critically scarce items of necessity is
essential in order to ensure the most
judicial and equitable allocation and
distribution of such items. The criti-
cally-scarce items upon which direct
Military Government controls will be
continued are as follows: coal; lumber;
glass; POL; soap and soap compounds;

12

Instructions on Intrazonal Trade have
been lifted to free raw and semi-finished
goods for Industry.

pulp and paper; highway vehicles, lo-
comotives, rolling stock, and road con-
struction machinery;, textiles and ra-
tioned clothes; leather and rationed
shoes; and foods rationed to consumers,
and commodities which are basic in-
gredients for such foods. This critical
list may be revised from time to time
by the Office of Military Government
for Germany (U.S.).

Insofar as inttrazonal trade — that is,
trade within and between states in the
U.S. Zone — is concerned, Military
Government approval of allocations,
rationing, and distribution is required
only for coal and POL. For intrazonal
trade, however, Military Government
approval is required for any and all
trade and commerce in any or all items
listed above.

The removal of Military Government
restrictions, as indicated above, is not
intended to affect consumer rationing
regulations or allocation control which
are necessary to insure efficient and
equitable distribution. Any retardation
of the free flow of trade and commerce
resulting from such regulations is a
necessary evil which is warranted in
that the greatest good to the greatest
number from the limited supplies is
thereby achieved.

STIMULUS TO INDUSTRY

The real intent is to discourage and,
so far as is practicable, prevent hoar-

--- Page 16 ---
ding on the part of individuals, locali-
ties and. Zones, and to stimulate an en-
larged flow of raw materials and semi-
finished goods to industry. This will
result in an enlarged flow of consumer
goods through distribution channels.

It means that U.S. Military Govern-
ment, except for the commodities
listed above, has relinquished all active,
operational control over trade .. and
commerce in the U.S. Zone. General
policy control, however, will continue
to be exercised over such matters by
Military Government in order to ensure
that the objectives of the United States
are achieved.

The Minister Presidents of the States
in the U.S. Zone now have a new re-
sponsibility for the stimulation and
control of trade and commerce, except
as indicated above, within the frame-
work of Military Government policies.
They are now the trustees of the Ger-
man public interest, and their success
or failure will depend upon their ini-
tiative, efficiency, and capacity to ob-
tain the voluntary cooperation of the
German people.

GERMAN AGENCIES’ RESPONSIBILITY
The Minister Presidents will exercise

13

their trade and commerce responsibili-
ties — the responsibility for feeding,
clothing, and housing the German
people — through the Regional Econo-
mic Offices, the Regional Food Offices,
and other appropriate governmental
agencies. Henceforth, German _ indi-
viduals and firms will take their trade
and commerce problems directly to the
appropriate German authorities, rather

than to Military Government.

In the exercise of these responsibili-
ties, the German authorities have been
directed to impose only such regula-
tions and controls over the flow of
trade and commerce as are necessary to
implement, and to prevent the break-
down of, the German rationing and allo-
cation programs within the U.S. Zone.
The Minister Presidents have been au-
thorized to communicate directly with
each other and to coordinate policies
and regulations pertaining to trade and
commerce in the U.S. Zone to the end
that the distribution and rationing of
commodities is equitable and conforms
as closely as is practicable to the needs
of the U.S. Zone considered as a whole.

--- Page 17 ---
General

REACTIVATION
‘Paltical Life IN WIESBADEN

SOON after General Eisenhower’s
message of August 6th, in which he
stated that ”. . . you will be permitted
to form trade unions and to engage in
local political activities, and meetings
for these purposes may be held subject
to the approval of local Military Gov-
ernment,” delegates from three separate
political factions presented themselves
and their petitions at the offices of
Detachment F-15 in WIESBADEN.

THE PARTIES APPLY

On August 9th, a Mr. Hans Hart-
mann (who was recently arrested for
illegal possession of U.S. Army supplies,
and black-market activities) introduced
himself as the spokesman for the Com-
munist Party of Wiesbaden, and asked
for information regarding the auth-
orizing of political groups as ment-
ioned in General Eisenhower’s message.
Since the responsibilities for super-
vising the reformation of organized
political activity had been delegated
to local MGOs, Lt Col Malcolm Hay,
then commanding F-15, designated
Lieutenant Tobland to draw up a
standard operating procedure. The
old-line Democrats, represented by
Dr. August Amann, President of the
Wiesbaden Chamber of Commerce,
visited the detachment toward the
end of August, and stated that at that
time the Democrats would call them-
selves the "Deutsche Arbeitsgemein-
schaft” pending meetings and dis-

cussions with various elements of

14

The History of Detachment F-15,
Stadtkreis Wiesbaden, gives an inte-
resting picture of local political deve-
lopment.

the Deutsche Volkspartei, some labor
factions, and members of the old
Centrum group. Finally on September
15th Dr. Amann announced that the
above-mentioned factions had been
welded into one political entity, to be
known henceforth as the Christian
Democatic Party. Thus there was a
fusion of the old-line Democrats with
Church elements as well as some of the
rightwing Labor blocs. The Fragebogen,
statutes, and a list of names comprising
the executive Body of the Party were
submitted concurrently with this an-
nouncement.

Meantime, on September 19th, Lieu-
tenant Tobland called in two mem-
bers of each party and held a general
meeting in which revised policies on
the formation of political groups were
outlined to them. He also reiterated
General EISENHOWER’s wish that all
organizations, political or otherwise,
devote their primary considerations and
first efforts in preparing for the coming
winter. All delegates assented vigorous-
ly to this pronouncement. And it was
added that under no circumstances
would the capitalizing of bad economic,
social, and moral conditions be per-
mitted for any purpose whatever.

Several days later, on September 23th,
the various parties submitted lists of

--- Page 18 ---
names, party representatives for the
MGO’s advisory council, and the name
of each party sponsor. In the latter
function, Mr. Karl Bohm, a merchant,
was chosen as Sponsor for the Christian
Democrats, Mr. Hans Hartmann, pro-
prietor of an inn in Wiesbaden, was
named for the Communist Party, and
Mr. Johannes Maass headed the Social
Democrats.

POLITICAL ACTIVITY AUTHORIZED

Informal authorizations for provisional
political activity were drawn up by
Lieutenant Tobland and presented to
the various party sponsors in a cere-
mony in the MGOs office on September
28th. This act signalized the official
stamp of approval on the beginnings of
organized political life in Stadtkreis
Wiesbaden. Present at this ceremony
were members and sponsors of all po-
litical parties, as well as Pralat Wolf
of the Catholic Church; Bishop Kort-
hauer, of the Protestant Church, was
ill and unable to attend. The authoriza-
tions were signed by Sponsors and
witnessed in the presence of all parties,
and a record made of the meeting.
Later discussion disclosed that all con-
cerned were much impressed with the
manner in which the ceremony was
conducted.

It is interesting and important to note
that the Christian Democrat Party,
comprising high-level professional men,
clergy, and other more or less typical
Rightist representations, appeals in its
Statutes to Educational, Religious,
Professional, and Labor elements to
combine efforts in regaining the eco-
nomic democracy of the nation, and the
lost respect of the world, — the appeal
was made to all possible elements of
society. In one paragraph of the
Christian Democratic statutes submitted
there is a sentence which reads . . we
ask a just policy concerning wages and
salaries for all workers and employees.”

15

Earlier, there is evinced some fear of
industrial combines in the sentence.
"It is indispensible that for all times
we protect the governmental power
against illegitimate influences of
economic agglomerations of power.”
Frank discussions with Dr. Amann and
other responsible members of the
Christian Democrats reveal that while
they are confident that the amalgama-
tion of loose elements into their one
unified party will do much to alleviate
potential crises of one sort or another
in the coming winter, nevertheless the
aims, intents, and purposes of the Com-
munist Party are not completely clari-
fied.

A discussion with Mr. Hartmann
disclosed that Communist and Social
Democratic sympathies were closely
allied; while at the discussion with Mr.
Heinrich N6le of the Christian
Democats. Mr. Nolle asked that his
party be permitted four rather than two
members on the MGOs Advisory Coun-
cil, obviously in anticipation of the
Communists and Social Democrats
forming a majority.

THE COMMUNIST PLATFORM

The program of the Communist Party
announces that ”. . we are aware of the
fact that it would be a mistake to force
the Soviet system on Germany, because
this method would not correspond to
present conditions of development . .”
In brief, the Communists ask for the
"creation of an anti-fascist, democratic
republic, with all democratic rights
and liberties for the people.” More
specifically, they demand that the
estates of landed gentry, Junkers, prin-
ces, etc., be subdivided and given to
deserving peasants. The bulk of their
policy, like the others, is devoted to
vigorous pledges of faith in denazi-
fication, de-militarization, and the
creation of a solid unit of Democracy,”
culminating in— and this is a surprising

--- Page 19 ---
concession to the future — a ’foundation
for the creation of a bloc of anti-fascist
democratic parties (of the Communist
Party, the Social Democrats, center
Party, etc.).”

The program of the Social Demo-
crats, patterned almost exactly along
the lines of the Communist program,
advocates generally the destruction of
nazism, reconstruction of economy with
a right to social insurance,” sponsoring
of Arts and Sciences and the democratic
freedom. The Social Democrats have
been less aggressive than members of
the two other parties, and it remains
to be seen how far their enthusiasm
and ambitions extend. As Mr. Hart-
mann of the Communist Party indi-
cated, the interests of the Communists
and the Social Democrats appear to be
more parallel than those of the Christian
Democrats in that their respective sta-
tutes and programs reach out to the
laborer and the farmer bloc especially.
In light of the fact that the destruction
of cities and heavy industries in U.S.-
occupied Germany has thrown many
skilled artisans and city-workers of one
kind and another back to the land and
to manual and semi-manual labor, it
would appear that any appeal made to
this class would logically point to a
majority. However, the Stadtkreis of
Wiesbaden has suffered relatively little
damage in comparison with other large
cities, and it is thought that perhaps
the Democratic elements will, in this
city, maintain a degree of strength and
influence which they might fail to attain
in other communities.

One sign which portends at least
temporary harmony amongst all politi-
cal groups in Wiesbaden is the existence
of the ”Aufbau-Ausschuss” the Advisory
Council for Reconstruction, headed by
a Mr. Helwig of the city Administra-
tion. This Council, composed of mem-
bers of all parties, has done much in
the way of advising and guiding. Their

16

efforts and ideas have apparently kept
the Oberbirgermeister well apprised on
the general frame of mind of Wies-
badeners, and apparently men whose
political ideas vary widely have man-
aged to compromise in the settling of
general problems having to do with
food, work, shelter, and various ad-
ministrative questions affecting the
city’s populace.

Irrevocable Statement Revoked
for Military Government Officers

THE WAR Department has now in-
dicated that Military Government
officers desiring further service in this
theater will not be required to sign a
statement that they elect to remain on
extended active duty until 30 June 1947
or for the duration of the emergency
plus six months. Military Government
officers may volunteer to continue on
extended active duty by agreeing with
their commanding officer to continue
on active duty until a specific date or
for the duration of the emergency and
six months, whichever is earlier.

The volunteer statement to be signed
will read as follows:

*Regardless of any eligibility which
I now have or may have in the future
for relief from active duty under
readjustment regulations, I elect, un-
less sooner relieved, to continue on
extended active duty until (date
agreed upon) or for the duration of
the emergency plus six months, if
this occurs earlier.”

In all instances the date entered on
this certificate must be subsequent to
the date the signee becomes eligible for
relief from active duty.

Each Military Government officer
will be given the opportunity to fill out
this certificate in the near future and
it will then be attached to his 66-1 card.

--- Page 20 ---
In addition, 3x5 cards bearing this
statement are being distributed in
duplicate to each officer in Military
Government, who will complete both
copies and give them to his detachment
commander, who in turn will mail them
directly to Chief, Personnel & Equip-
ment Branch, Office of Military Gov-
ernment (U. S. Zone), Headquarters,
USFET. The information on these cards
will enable the Director of Military
Government (U.S. Zone) to predict
more accurately the replacement re-
quirements in this theater.

The chief advantage to be derived
from this change is that officers may
now definitely plan for the future by
setting their own date on which action
must be taken to secure release from
the service. It is believed that a suf-
ficient number of officers will now
volunteer for varying periods so that
it will be unnecessary for Senior Mili-
tary Government Officers to declare
any great number of officers essential
in order to have the benefit of their
services for a maximum period of six
months from the date on which their
ASR score entitles them to separation.
This six-month clause still remains in
effect, however, for undoubtedly in
some instances it will be necessary to
retain certein key specialists so that
the Military Government program will
not suffer.

Home Gardens Emphasized

A vigorous program for promoting
more and larger home gardens was
directed by USFET this week, involving
all available publicizing media, such as
radio, newspapers, magazines, etc., to
stimulate public interest in the program.
Acrege of forage crops (fodder roots,
hay pasture) is to be maintained at the
maximum level possible after food crop
quotas have been met. All land not suit-

17

able for other crops will be so utilized.
Policy was stated by USFET on non-
food crops (flax, hops, hemp, tobacco)
for the coming year as the minimum
possible without a radical departure
from past farming practices. Current-
year hectarage for these crops was set
as maximum permissable for next year.

Reports Requirements

Some detachments appear reluctant to
comply with reports requirements on
the basis that Military Districts have not
yet indorsed Section XXV of the July
7th Directive. The District Commanders
were instructed this week to inform. all
detachments that reports requirements
issued from time to time as amend-
ments to the directive are to be duly
submitted without further action from
District headquarters. This does not
alter current procedure requiring appro-
val numbers for each report called for,
with the exception of reports specifi-
cally stated to be emergency reports.

DP’s in Medical Schools

MILITARY ‘Districts were informed
that displaced persons are to be ad-
mitted to the Medical Schools of the
Universities of Erlangen, Heidelberg,
and Marburg for the coming winter
semester to the extent of ten per cent
of the total medical enrollment at each
school. Selection of individuals will be
made by the competent German auth-
orities at each university from appli-
cants who may have applied directly to
the school, and may also be made from
among applicants recommended by
UNRRA. All displaced persons accepted
as medical students must meet the
following conditions: they must show
that their medical education was already
begun, and was directly interrupted by

--- Page 21 ---
circumstances of war; they must have
passed the pre-med exams, and be taking
only clinical subjects; they must not
have already obtained a degree in
medicine from any university; they
must be intellectually superior. Pre-
ference in admission will be given to
those farthest advanced in their clinical
training.

In Brief

Regierungsbezirk Military Government
Detachments were directed to send re-
presentatives to Hq USFET for an Edu-
cation and Religious Affairs Conference,
beginning November 9th... Ac-
cording to USFET cabled directive,
when captured or surrendered enemy
road transport vehicles, parts, tires,
shop equipment, tools, fuels and lubri-
cants, highway maintenance materials
and equipment, horses and tractors, are
sold, a tax or fee or two per cent of
sales price will be assessed against the
purchaser. This is to be above and in
addition to the sales price. Proceeds of
this tax will be promptly remitted to the
Finanzamt (Reich Tax Collecting Office)
within whose district the sale is con-
summated... The maximum _allo-
wance of rationed foods that German
authorities will permit for the consumer
category ten to seventeen years of age
has been increased by USFET to 1900
calories a day. This amends paragraph

18

3B of SHAEF letter AG 400-7 (Civil)
GE-AGM, dated January 25th.

Postal Items

USFET granted authority for the re-
sumption of the postal savings system
in the U.S. Zone, effective the 20th of
October, subject to the following con-
ditions: balances on deposit prior to
resumption of service will be honored;
withdrawal limited to RM 100 at one
time, and not in excess of RM 500 in
any 30-day period; deposits and with-
drawals limited to residents of the Zone.
The service existing on that date and
to be established thereafter must con-
form to these conditions. The authority
does not in any way change instructions
regarding accounts blocked under
existing regulations . . . Effective the
same date, authority was granted for
the resumption of the postal check ser-
vice in the U.S. Zone. Balances on
deposit at the time of resumption of
this service will be honored . . . Re-
habilitation of the Reichpost is being
hampered by lack of vehicles of mail
transport. District Commanders were
directed that all Reichspost Postal
Vehicles being used for purposes other
than Reichspost activity be returned to
control of the Reichspost. ... Res-
umption of COD was authorized by
USFET, within the U.S. Zone, and
within the limitations prescribed by
former Reichspost regulations.

--- Page 22 ---
German Reactions

A FREE PRESS

and the Future

TO THE discerning American visitor
in Germany before September 1939 no
feature of the life there seemed more
fateful than the deadly and deadening
uniformity of propagandistic opinion
(and no other) which the press through-
out the country revealed. To that same
American today, who may be rightfully
plagued with doubts as to whether the
Germans can really be "changed” or
develop an abiding faith in democratic
processes, no feature on the German
scene augurs more hope for the pro-
pagation of a democratic spirit than
the budding forth of a new press func-
tioning as a medium for the expression
of free opinion. One cannot  over-
estimate the importance for the future
of the firm establishment of a free press
in Germany, new impetus toward which
was provided by the Marburg confer-
ence of German newspapermen recently
arranged by the Information Control
Division. The following comments that
appeared in the Frankfurter Rundschau
show a clear realization on the part of
this newspaper of the great import of
the conference.

”When eventually some one writes
the history of the young German press
which was established after the collapse
of national socialism, the first conference
of publishers and editors of all licensed
newspapers in the American-occupied
zone will be evaluated as an important
contribution to the founding of the
new Democracy.

For over twelve years no meeting
took. place in all Germany at which

19

German men and women were able to
consider public problems with such
freedom, and to make important de-
cisions. No compulsion was exercised
on the 45 representatives (of the Ger-
man press) to influence the decision on
any question. It is important to know
that. Only when one does know it can
one judge what the present position of
the German press is and what it will be in
the future. It (i.e., the press), can tell in
its columns, to all concerned, what path
must be followed, what limitations must
disappear, what liberties are to be
granted, and what oppositional forces
must be banned, in order to clear the
way for Democracy.

“All Germans must realize what that
means. When they, too, are willing to

follow these rules — be they cabinet
ministers,. mayors, Regierungs-presi-
dents, Landraéte, or party leaders —

then we shall be on the right road. And
if German men and women, wherever
they gather to work in common, to
hold consultation, to make decisions,
are imbued with the same spirit, then
we shall have Democracy. Then the
dynamic forces will be released which
will lead to our not contenting oursel-
ves merely with democratic forms but
filling them with content. In other
words, we will take up all the necessary
reforms which can lead to the re-
construction of our whole social and
economic life, and to a new order. Some
may call it solidarty, others, Socialism,
and still others, Communism — the

--- Page 23 ---
general goal will in any case be the
same.
"We men of the new press realize

that in spite of the unity of purpose
we are divided by many contradictory
Opinions, that our political ideologies
are different. But we know, too, that
the essence of Democracy lies in finding
the right solution to all these Dif-
ferences of opinion and attitude by
free discussion, by mental searching, by
directing and bringing to effectiveness
the forces and masses which hold to
‘these ideas. When a decision has been
made according to democratic rules,
then Democracy demands that one
. offer his hand to his political opponent
and bid him co-operate in fulfilling the
will of majority.”

The Need for Re-education
Recognized

One of the most difficult tasks we
have set ourselves is to educate the
Germans, especially the impressionable
youth, away from the perversions of
nazi doctrine and toward the ac-
ceptance of the ideals of a democratic,
Christian society. We know that this
*spiritual denazification’ cannot be
achieved by any ”mandatory-removal”
expedient, but that its success will de-
pend on the degree of understanding
the Germans themselves show towards
this problem, and the genuineness of
their will to effect their own re-educa-
tion. It is encouraging to note, there-
fore, the clear evidence of such under-
standing and the presence of such will
contained in the speech given by Dr.
Hogner, the new Minister Prasident of
Bavaria, on the occasion of his
assumption of office.. The part of his
speech pertinent to the problem of re-
education is quoted below in transla-
tion:

"External measures against national
socialism are necessary, but they don’t

20

strike at its heart. That can only be
accomplished by overcoming its evil
spirit. The new government, therefore,
ignoring differences of philosophical
opinion, will concentrate on placing all
its cultural and educational policies in
the service of the struggle against the
insane teachings of national socialism.
We have again had a narrow escape —
but we have had an object lesson which
will remain in the memory of many
generations to come. We know now
what the consequences are, when. the
foundations of human society are
destroyed: the society of the free and
equal, the spirit of brotherly tolerance,
the respect for higher laws and for the
religious and political convictions of
our neighbors. Because of the terrible
moral degradation of our people by
national socialism, we must start from
the very beginning to attain again an
orderly social life,, paying attention
first to the re-establishment of the cor-
rect principles of bringing up children,
and then proceeding to the more ad-
vanced forms of social life. The
problems here confronting the educa-
tors of our people are tremendous, but
we should be despairing of the future
of our nation if we considered them
insoluble. The State government there-
fore intends to devote the greatest
attention to the educational question,
and to the cultivation of the intellec-
tual and moral values of all civilized
peoples.”

"Good Old Uncle Doc”

Any number of reports have long
since established the medical certificate
as one of the favorite dodges used by
nazis to evade the menial tasks assig-
ned to them upon our direction by the
German administration. The obliging
attitude of many German doctors
toward former. party members is
wittily commented upon and castigated

--- Page 24 ---
in an article with the above title ap-
pearing recently in the Sueddeutsche
Zeitung and quoted, as given below, in
a detachment report.

"He was not always nice, good old
Uncle Doc. Half a year ago he was un-

approachable and bitter as gall when
someone asked him for a_ medical
attestation which would free a man

from service in the Volkssturm, or
when he had to give his opinion as to
the state of health of the slave-workers
in an ammunition factory. In those
days it was easier to obtain a death-
certificate from the coroner than the
liberating medical attestation from
Uncle Doc. Not to speak of cases when
Uncle Doc wore the grey tunic of a
staff surgeon!

”How much nicer is Uncle Doc today!
And how bad has public health become
all of a sudden! A veritable epidemic
has broken out and is spreading like
wildfire. What is strange about it is
that only former party members seem
to be the victims. Men who, just a few
months ago, walked about in their

21

brown uniforms radiating strength and
energy, are suddenly suffering from
heart diseases, liver diseases, nervous
diseases, all sorts of diseases that make
a man unfit to do manual labor. The
disease in question is always such that
the man is still fit to smoke big cigars,
from apparently inexhaustible stores, to
drink light beer with his friends, and to
spread rumors.

The fact is that the Arbeitsimter
are helpless. They do not know what
to do about it. How can they make all
those ill, suffering party members work
for the benefit of the community? For
the food offices it is easier. The party
members offer no difficulties in accep-
thing ration stamps.

”Much could be saved, before winter,
many a house could be repaired if there
were enough laborers. Good old Uncle
Doc has become too complaisant, he
issues too mny attestations; else, there
would be enough laborers.

We think it is about time that some-
body checked up on Uncle Doc.”

--- Page 25 ---
Voices of Experience

THE Kassel DETACHMENT AND THE DPs

By CAPTAIN JOHN E. EMERSON,
Detachment E-4

WHEN Detachment E-4_ reached
Kassel to take over the Regierungs-
bezirk, there were 65,000 DPs in the
area. As the Russians moved into the
area east of Kassel, many more came
in. To date, 93,722 DPs have been
evacuated from the Regierungsbezirk.
There remain 29,453, of whom 2,556
are considered non-repatriable.

All of this added up to one of the
largest DP problems in any comparable
administrative area in the U.S. Zone.
The. Detachment handled its man-sized
problem in a comprehensive way by
forming a displaced Persons Co-ordina-
ting Board, under the chairmanship of
the Deputy Military Government Offi-
cer. In spring and sumer, emergency
measures took precedence over the
development of the Board as a per-
manent planning and co-ordinating
agency. Problems had to be handled as
they arose, and with the means im-
mediately at hand. Little opportunity
was afforded for an all-round apprecia-
tion of the situation, but once the ini-
tial housing, feeding, and transporta-
tion problems were solved, and the
winterization of camps (31 of which
are still open; sixteen were closed down
Jast month alone) was under way, it be-
came apparent that a closer tie-in of
all the various functional specialties,
together with UNRRA, was necessary.

Organization of the Board
The detachment Chiefs of Trans-
portation, Food and Agriculture, Civi-
lian Supply, Forestry, Trade and In-

22

Detachment E-4 has a workable plan
for handling the displaced person prob-
lem in its Co-ordination Board.

dustry, Public Health, Public Welfare,
the Regierungsbezirk UNRRA  super-
visor compose the body of the Co-or-
dinating Committee, which is joined in
its weekly meetings by a representative
of the Kassel Military Government
Warehouse. By open discussion, the
multifarious problems (such as obtaining
of winter clothing and shoes, and trans-
port) can be thrashed out and plans can
be made for future requirements and
action.

The Detachment itself has an officer
specifically charged with DP matters.
He has a staff of two officers (a camp
supervisor and an office executive) and
three liaison officers. To deal with the
camps, the DP officer either goes
through lower-level detachments or else
goes directly to the UNRRA Camp
Commander or DP Officer of the De-
tachment responsible for the camp, de-
pending on the urgency of the situa-
tion.

The camps have national group lea-
ders who have staffs to assist them in
handling and channeling problems to
appropriate Allied authorities. Larger
camps have indigenous welfare, housing,
and entertainment committees, which
supervise camp repair work, arrange
for their nationals to get work with
Army units through the Allied repre-

--- Page 26 ---
sentatives present, work with munici-
palities (repair and maintenance of
public utilities, for example), etc. Most
of the camps have a theater or com-
munity hall where plays and concerts
are given. As might be expected, the
stateless groups are more energetic in
attempting to care for themselves;
White Russians and Balts are outstand-
ing in their efforts to be absorbed into
the population.

Results of Liaison

The Co-ordinating Board at ‘Kassel
has aided in the establishment of a close
and effetive liason between UNRRA in
the camps and Military Government,
which considers itself under pressure to
avoid problems tending to jeopardize
the mission of handling the Germans.
Through the medium of the Co-ordina-
ting Board, all of the resources of the
Regierungsbezirk detachment are
brought to bear on the DP situation.
The representative of the Military Gov-
ernment Warehouse, for example, is
able to gauge the CA/MG __ supplies
(such as meat, flour, biscuits, pulses,
marmalade, coffee, sugar, salt and
chocolate) which he will be called on to
supply. The Food and Agriculture Offi-
cer, present at the same meetings,
knows how many potatoes, fresh ve-
getables, fruits and whole grain cereals
he will have to call forward from Ger-
man sources; Public Health, concerned
with all these problems, is in a position
to help in weighing the needs for
clothing (obtainable from the Military
Government Warehouse at Darmstadt,
the UNRRA warehouse at Hanau, and
Class II and IV Dumps at Giessen). Com-
forters from Army stocks are available
through the Kassel Warehouse. German
sources are called on to supply winter-
izing materials.

The Co-ordinating Board also parti-

cipates in the weekly UNRRA meeting
for all Assembly Center Directors, and

23

their Supply Officers. This meeting
usually divides itself into three separate
parts; a discussion, led by the Board,
of DP problems, directives, and priori-
ties; co-ordinating plans for move-
ments, redistribution of population and
Assembly Center administration; and
UNRRA affairs, which is led by the Re-
gierungsbezirk UNRRA director and his
staff. Policies developed by the Board
can thus be explained and implemented
for the whole Kassel area.

Centralization of control of the DP
situation from a command standpoint
is parallelled by the channeling of re-
quirements, resulting in a more efficient
supply procedure since the Regierungs-
bezirk needs can be blocked out as a
unit. Consolidation of requests and re-
quisitions has saved a great deal of
time and energy, and has resulted in a
more efficient handling of priorities,
procurements, and transport.

FRAGEBOGEN BUCK SLIP

SPECIAL Branch in the Military Gov-
ernment Detachment for RB Kassel has
developed a buck slip to be attached to
Fragebogen, providing background ma-
terial essential for processing. It has
proven itself a great time and labor-
saving device. It was instituted to pre-
vent confusion arising daily when the
functional sections would send in stacks
of Fragebogen with notes attached
which merely requested that the subjects
be investigated. The result of this
casual procedure was that invariably
Special Branch had to shoot the Frage-
bogen back to the functional Sections
for more information.

The buck slip (not to be made out un-
less applicant is employed or desired to
fill a definite position) provides for the
following information: Name; Whether
subject is an applicant for a job or al-
ready employed; Civil services grade, if
known; Starting salary and title of

--- Page 27 ---
position; Name of agency of employ-
ment, and whether public or private.

' If the subject is a minor employee (as
defined by Directive), the Military Gov-
erhment Department Head requesting
investigation ‘is required by — Special
Branch to execute the following certi-
ficate: "I certify that to the best of my
knowledge ‘and belief the above em-
ployee is in employment of such minor
importance that the incumbent is not
placed in a position to endanger Allied
interests or commit acts hostile to
Allied principles and purposes by reason
of. his employment’.”. The reason for
this certificate is that no outside in-
vestigation is made on minor employees
other than ‘inspection of available re-
cords’ (Police, CIC, Civil Service and
nazi party files).

When the Fragebogen, complete with
buck slip, reaches Special Branch, it is
assigned a number and the information
on the buck slip is transferred to the
Action and Work Sheets,

BLACK MARKET IN LUMBER QUASHED

A BLACK market of logs and lumber
in Regierungsbezirk Hessen was un-
covered when investigation showed that
civilians had been allowed to purchase
high-quality logs without a certificate
of needs..The logs. were then custom-
sawed. and .stacked, as a form of
security. This resulted, of course, in
keeping the much-needed lumber off the
market.. To remedy this situation, the
following control measures were taken:
Logs are to. be sold only to authorized
dealers and saw mill owners according
to their needs and manufacturing capa-
cities, Approval is to be made by the

24

Regierungsbezirk Economic Office.
Customsawing has been forbidden
altogether, without prior approval for
operation from the Economic Office,
thus. providing that agency with a
double check,

DOES LAW 8 KILL PRODUCTION?

Detachment reports are emphasizing
the story sponsored by many German
industrialists that the execution of Law
No. 8 would result in the complete
breakdown of essential production. The
experience of Maximilianhiitte steel
plant at Haidhof is a significant ex-
ample of what denazification actually
does for essential production.

A thorough denazification of the
plant’s management in accordance with
Law No. 8 was recently. carried out,
despite the solemn warning by plant
officials that the removal of such top
personnel would force suspension of
the plant’s vital steel production.
Among those removed from their po-
sitions because of nazi records were
the chief engineer and all of the plant
superintendents. Management of the
plant was turned over to three non-
nazis, the chief chemist, a salesman and
a laborer. Although there was a drop
in production during the following two
weeks, the plant continued to operate.

Today steel production of the Maxi-
milianhiitte plant is back to where it
was prior to the denazification of its
management. Morale among the wor-
kers is reported to have improved
greatly, and the new non- nazi manage-
ment has assured Military Government
Officers that the plant’s steel produc-
tion will continue to increase.

--- Page 28 ---
P ress Comments

Bricks and Bouquets for

OCCUPATION

BECAUSE of the alleged growing
Germanophilia of officers and men and
the "low caliber” of personnel, the occu-
pation forces came under fire from
several commentators during the week,
while other observers stressed the con-
structive accomplishments of American
Military Government. In both its
editorial and news columns, the press
continued to devote much attention to
the economic and political problems in-
volved in the four-power administration
of Germany.

Attacking the "growing Germano-
philia” of officers and men, Edgar
Mowrer, in the New York Post, warned
of the political dangers of fraternization
with German women. ”Officers not only
do not hesitate themselves to fraternize
with former enemies, but do nothing
to counteract the political susceptibility
of enlisted men to German propaganda,”
he declared. "That American soldiers
should be eager to frequent nazi molls
and murderer’s sweethearts is not good,”
Mowrer said. ’That they should in the
process acquire venereal disease is bad.
But that in the process they should
acquire and bring home political syphilis
is intolerable.”

Equally critical of the alleged influen-
ce of the German Frauleins, Time maga-
zine said: ”The necessary dependence on
interpreters, the striking number of
higher-rank officers in residence with
mistresses of vanished nazi bigwigs, the
general air of maladroitness and cum-
bersome effort has given rise to a bitter
description. By Germans and by many
a discerning GI, the U.S. occupation

25

rule of Germany and Austria was being
called ’the government of interpreters

and mistresses’.

In an article in the Nation, entitled
”How the Nazis Stay In,”.Saul K. Padover
takes Military Government to task. for
allegedly failing to keep nazis out of.
office. "Were Military Government
officers conciously pro-nazi?” the article
asked. "I think not. I am convinced that
it was a case of political ignorance and
moral indifference. They not only knew
nothing about German problems or the
German language, but, with one or two
exceptions, they had no understanding
or interest in the causes and problems
of the war and hence no feelings about
nazism, for or against.”

Another example of current criticism
in the press was the statement of Richard
I. Davies, chairman of the Philadelphia
Foreign Policy Committee, on his return
from a European tour, that America’s
greatest handicap in Germany is the low
caliber of the. officers and soldiers
assigned to Military Government duty.”

Defenders in the press were not
lacking to Military Government. While
conceeding that the American press is
doing an excellent service by its frank
criticisms, a Manchester Guardian ~dis-
patch from Munich declared that "it is
equally important that the constructive
achievements of American Military Gov-
ernment in Germany should also be kept
in mind. There are faults in the
American Zone as in all the other
zones of occupation, but there is also
sincere effort to rebuild.Germany . for.
democracy. General. Eisenhower | gives

--- Page 29 ---
constant encouragement to this effort,
and he has shown that he is ready to
act quickly when improvement seems
needed.”

The Atlantic Monthly, in its October
Atlantic Report, also had words of
praise for Military Government. ”The
success achieved by the American Com-
mander’s staff is explained by a steady
improvement in the competence of the
Military Government officials them-
selves,” it said. "They have justified ex-
pectations in their ability to learn
quickly. A high proportion were capable
administrators and executives back
home, and many have substantial poli-
tical experience. As the role of the Army
in the American Zone diminishes and
that of the Military Government (man-
ned mostly by commissioned civilian ex-
perts) expands, order is emerging from
chaos.”

German Crisis

In a dispatch to the London Daily
Telegraph from Berlin, Ossian Goulding
warned that the four-power administra-
tion of Germany has now reached a
critical stage, and that Germany stands
on the brink of economic chaos.” De-
cision on two matters, Goulding assert-
ed, cannot be long delayed: First,
whether Germany is to be treated as an
economic unit, as provided for by the
Potsdam agreement, or divided into
separate states or zones of interest;
Second, if Germany is to be treated as
a unit, whether the barriers now
existing around the various Allied zones
of occupation are to be removed, thus
permitting freedom of movement be-
tween them for all who travel on legiti-
mate business, particularly officials of
the four occupying powers.

"All realize that, if Germany is not to
go over the precipice of economic ruin,
a firm grip must be taken, above all, in

26

the field of finance, where inflation is
staring the Germans in the face,” the
article declared, adding that the con-
tinued success of the four-power gov-
ernment of Germany through the
critical times ahead would be a happy
augury for the cooperation of the Allied
nations in other fields of activity.

Atom- Bomb Control

Curbs must be placed on German in-
dustry to prevent the future manu-
facture of atom bombs, according to
several commentators. In a broadcast
over ABC on October 27th, John
Kennedy pointed out that in addition
to a strategic air force, ground troops
will obviously be required in the army
of occupation "to inspect German in-
dustry, to make sure no atomic energy
is being surreptitiously manufactured.”

Another radio commentator, Gabriel
Heatter of MBS, drew attention to
estimates that approximately 75 per cent
of German industry is either intact, or
could be set going once more in a com-
paratively short time. ”Even 3,000,000
tons of steel will build an atom bomb,”
he said. ”No civilized person wants Ger-
many to starve, but there are people
who say she would starve with the
capacity to build 5,000,000 or 10,000,000
tons of steel a year. We'll have atom
bombs if she does.”

Berlin Politics

The account given by General Eisen-
hower in his second monthly report of
the political situation in the U.S. Sector
of Berlin prompted the London Specta-
tor to point out the differences between
the treatment of Germany by the Rus-
sians, and that applied by the Western
powers.

"Events are demonstrating exactly
what, after all, was to be expected,” the

--- Page 30 ---
Spectator said in commenting on Gene-
ral Eisenhower’s report. ’The political
philosophy of Russia is fundamentally
different from that of the Western
Powers. Two countries with opposite
political principles may compromise
about strategy or fontiers or trade; but
in dealing with the same human subject
matter there can be no compromise be-
tween totalitarianism and democracy.
Part of Germany may be handled in the
totalitarian way, part in the democratic
way, but the same section of it cannot
be handled in both ways. Here is a
fundamental difficulty in the re-educa-
tion of a single Germany under the four
powers-the same difficulty which stands
in the way of the reconstruction of Eu-
rope by any other method than the de-
marcation of spheres of influence.”

Commenting on the statement in
General Eisenhower’s report that in
political organization, the Communists
and Social Democrats have been the
most active, the London Economist said
that it may be questioned whether the
Americans have admitted sufficient
Social Democrats and Communists to
the civil administration to reflect their
real strength.”

”And since there is legitimate doubt
on this point, General Eisenhower’s
criticism of the Russian practice in Ber-
lin — where Marshal Zhukov has given
the Communists a decisive say in civil
administration — is much too categori-
cal,” the Economist continued. "The
truth is that. each administration has
so far favored the Germans held to be
most docile to its instructions and each
is open to the criticism of preferring
docility to genuine political representa-
tion.”

Moscow Report

Contrasts between the political and
economic situation in the Soviet Union

27

and that in western countries featured
Soviet home broadcasts during the
week. All unemployment is liquidated
in the USSR, this dreadful plague of
workers in capitalist countries,” declar-
ed one commentator. Another typical
broadcast said, ”’There can be no doubt
that, during the peace period, the ad-
vantages of a Soviet form of govern-
ment will be revealed with a new force.”

Soviet foreign broadcasts continued
to criticize suggestions looking toward
the formation of a ’western bloc”, and
stressed the fact that the Soviet Union
represents "economically and politically
a country in which the principles of de-
mocracy have triumphed.” Soviet broad-
casters also voiced opposition to any
delay in the trials of the Nazi war crimi-
nals. Said the Red Star International
Review: ’World public opinion is im-
patiently waiting for the beginning of
the trial of the major war criminals.”

Random Comments

"Only a few months have elapsed
since V-E Day. That is insufficient time
in which to overthrow the entire philo-
sophy of a people never previously
noted for rapid reversal of opinion.
Obviously the whole matter demands
clarification before any change is made
in either denazification or redeployment
policies. In re-educating Germany we
are still on an experimental basis.”
Editorial in The Boston Herald.

* *

There is a decided belief among those
on the spot, who should know by careful
observation, that joint control of Berlin
is at the very least teaching Allied offi-
cials how to get along with one another.
And while this is perhaps not of the
utmost importance in the city of Berlin,
it is of great significance when the
lessons learned there are applied to the
bigger problem of all Germany which

--- Page 31 ---
worries General Eisenhower. An it is of
supreme importance in world relations.
For the world has recently been greatly
discouraged by the impasse at the Lon-
don Conference, where the Big Shot
diplomats did not seem to have their
lessons prepared. But that they must
and can learn the lesson of how to work
together is proved conclusively by the
ability of the lesser fry in Berlin.” The

Toledo Blade.
* *

"I believe that we must base our po-
licy not on the imaginary fear of Com-
munist expansion westward, but upon
the need of strengthening European de-
mocracy against the real peril of
anarchy.” Walter Lippman.

* *

”*General Truscott, in taking over
General Patton’s job as Third Army
Commander, has given serious and early
attention to the problem of our troops
attitude towards the Germans in the
American Zone of Occupation. He plans
a program of instruction designed to
counteract the over-friendliness which
seems to mark the soldiers’ present re-
lations with the former enemy. — It
would seem that, while General Trus-
cott’s announced program is an excellent
idea, the instruction he suggests better
start earlier than the time of the
soldier’s arrival in Germany.” Editorial
in the Peoria Star.

* *

"Setting an example for all Europe
and for war-ravaged nations every-
where, the French people, men and
women alike, went to the polls yesterday
in their first national election since their
liberation from the Nazi yoke to decide
three issues that are of fundamental im-
portance to France, to Europe and to
the world. The fact that the French
people chose to decide these issues by
ballots, not by bullets, is a supreme tri-
bute to the political genius of the French

28

and the maturity of their character. The
settlement of France’s domestic differ-
ences by means of the vote holds out
the promise that, whatever French for-
eign policy is in the future, it will like-
wise be governed by the decision of that
greater majority of mankind of which
the French themselves are such a lead-
ing part.” The New York Times.
* *

”President Truman’s message advo-
cating universal military training may
well stand in the future as one of the
fundamental documents in American
history ... The critical question is
whether the people of the United States
and their Congress are willing to face
the real demands of the modern world,
whether they are willing to invest their
time and energies in the aims of peace
and prosperity which they profess, or
whether they are again (as before) so
tired of the war just past that they will
give nothing to future peace, relapsing
rather into all the old, easy comfortable
ways which will spell another war in
another generation. That is the question
which the President’s message poses.”
Editorial in New York Tribune.

* *

“Of first water should be the lessons
learned in world War I and II. The most
important of those lessons learned is
that while we saved Germans from the
very starvation they meted out to
others, saved them in order to save our-
selves, we must be prepared to spend
some time and money in the occupation
of Germany in order that we don’t have
to again give lives and blood to conquer
the German people.” Cedric Foster in
CBS broadcast.

* *

“One of the first steps taken, after
the establishment of American control
authority in Germany had been establis-
hed, was the ‘seizure of the physical
properties and all the records of the

--- Page 32 ---
I. G. Farben Industrie. Thus is brought
to an end one of the great industries
on which the German war making
ability has been founded. The Potsdam
Declaration ‘provided that Germany
would be stripped of her ability to
make war. General Eisenhower, angered
by criticism at home, emphatically
asserts that the terms of the Potsdam
Declaration are being imposed and
enforced. Confiscation of the I. G. Far-
ben properties supports, in great
measure, the truth of his assertions.”
— Editorial in The Memphis Commer-
cial Appeal.
* *

“As time goes on and attitudes change,
the occupation of Germany and Japan
is sure to become more and more of a
headache. The urge to bring the boys
home, plus the normal crop of irritations

29

with our allies, will place greater strain
on the determination to go on with this
necessary job. That is why it is impera-
tive that American purposes should be
clearly stated and that those who have
the unenviable task of carrying them
out should not be asked to abandon
reason and justice merely to gratify
certain critics at home who think our
occupation generals don’t swagger
enough. To disarm our late enemies and
encourage the rebuilding of a peaceful
economy is a large enough order
without insisting that every German
and Japanese shall be a democrat from
the instant he picks himself out of the
rubble. The speed of his conversion will
be regulated in part by the degree to
which democracy’s representatives make
plain that it is democracy they are
working for and not totalitarianism
under new management.” Editorial in
The Saturday Evening Post.

--- Page 33 ---
Station List

Military Government Elements

OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR

UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER

UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER
Office of
Mil Govt for
Germany (U.S.) Berlin
Office of
Mil Govt (U.S. Zone) Frankfurt

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay

Maj Gen C L Adcock

WESTERN MILITARY DISTRICT
Seventh U.S. Army

Office of
Mil Govt
(Western
District) Heidelberg

Western District

2d Mil Govt Regiment

Hq 2d Mil Govt Regt Bad Homburg

Hq Co Bad Homburg

Sv Co Ober Ursel

1st Maint Plat Zuffenhausen

2d Maint Plat Wetzlar

R&TCo Bad Homburg

2d MG Med Det Heidelberg
RR Det (Liaison) Bad Orb

NORTH WURTTEMBER-BADEN.

Col M O Edwards

Lt Col N F Hines

1st Lt A W Huck

Ist Lt R. A. Madden
Ist Lt E Thompson
Capt T Candon

Capt B A Sturdevan

Lt Col W H Riheldaffer
Capt F Gladzik

E-1 Stuttgart North Wiirttemberg-

Baden Col W W_ Dawson

Wirttemberg
CoA Stuttgart Capt O Martin
E-1 Stuttgart Wii ttemberg Col W W Dawson
F-10 Stuttgart SK Stuttgart Lt Col C L Jackson
F-11 Ulm SK-LK Ulm Lt Col I. L. Harlow
G-20 Aalen LK Aalen Maj J K Owen
G-21 Boéblingen LK Béblingen Capt W A Becker
G-22 Crailsheim LK Crailsheim Lt Col R_L Rogers
G-23 Esslingen LK Esslingen Lt Col J 1 Taylor
G-24 Gmiind LK Gmiind Capt J N Krajnak
G-25 Géppingen LK Géppingen Maj G W Ford
G-26 Schwabisch Hall LK Hall Maj W T Neel
G-27 Heidenheim LK Heidenheim Maj F R Edwards
G-28 Heilbronn LK Heilbronn Lt Col H M Montgomery
G-29 Ludwigsburg LK Ludwigsburg Capt C S De Veuve
G-30 Waiblingen LK Waiblingen Maj H W Freeman
H-50 Backnang LK Backnang Maj G D Burchell
H-51 Heilbronn SK Heilbronn Maj M L Hoover
H-52 Kiinzelsau LK Kiinzelsau Capt W L Straus
H-53 Leonberg LK Leonberg Capt R S Doetz
H-54 Bad Mergentheim LK Mergentheim Capt S L Haber
H-55 Niartingen LK Nirtingen Maj S A Warren
H-56 Ohringen LK Ohringen lst Lt M Korson
H-57 Ulm Warehouse Opn Lt Col J M Gregory
H-58 Vaihingen LK Vaihingen Capt J G Cox
Landesbezirk North Baden

CoE Durlach Landesbezirk Ist Lt R T Lynch
E-7 Karlsruhe North Baden Col C Lisle
F-16 Mannheim SK Mannheim Lt Col R_S Smith
G-42 Weinheim LK Mannheim Maj B C Barnes
G-43 Heidelberg SK Heidelberg Lt Col G P Kratz
G-44 Heidelberg LK Heidelberg Capt H_ D Peterson
G-45 Ettlingen LK Karlsruhe lst Lt W_C Hagen Jr.
G-46 Pforzheim SK-LK Pforzheim Capt M F Turano

30

--- Page 34 ---
OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR
UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER

G-47 Karlsruhe SK Karlsruhe Maj M S Pullen
H-87 Bruchsal LK Bruchsal Capt O L Hayes
H-88 Foudenheim Warehouse Opn Maj H E Kring
H-89 Buchen LK Buchen Maj J A McGuinness
H-90 Mosbach LK Mosbach Maj N O Moore
H-91 Tauberbischofsheim LK Tauberbischofsheim Capt J F Moyer
H-92 Sinsheim LK Sinsheim Capt G O Withey
1-137 Edingen Warehouse Opn Capt R L Shadwick

LAND GREAT HESSE

E-5

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

Co D
E-5
E-6
F-15
G-41
H-77

H-78

H-79
H-80

H-81
H-83

H-86

Wiesbaden

Weilburg
Wiesbaden
Frankfurt
Wiesbaden
Wetzlar
Dillenburg

Gelnhausen

Hanau
Limburg

Hofheim
Riidesheim

Bad Homburg

Regierungsbezirk Kassel

Co C
E-4
F-14

G-38

G-39
G-40
G-48
H-65
H-67
H-68
H-69
H-70
H-71
H-72
H-73

Kirchain
Kassel
Kassel

Fritzlar

Marburg
Fulda
Korbach
Eschwege
Hersfeld
Hofgeismar
Hiinfeld
Melsungen
Rotenburg
Kassel
Witzenhausen

ML-1 (Sa) Kassel

Regierungsbezirk Hessen

Co B
E-3

F-12
F-13

EZITOQAQQAAD
Coonan

& cr cn do do do Co Co Oo
I<) 2BSF

Darmstadt
Darmstadt
Darmstadt
Offenbach
Bensheim
Bidingen
Dieburg
Friedberg
Giessen
Gross Gerau
Alsfeld
Erbach
Lauterbach

Land Great Hesse

RB Wiesbaden

SK Frankfurt

SK Wiesbaden

LK Wetzlar

LK Dillkreis &

LK Biedenkopf

LK Gelnhausen &
LK Schliichtern
SK-LK Hanau

LK Limburg &

LK Oberlahnkreis
LK Maintaunuskreis
LK Rheingaukreis &
LK Untertaunuskreis
LK Obertaunuskreis &
LK Usingen

RB Kassel

SK-LK Kassel &

LK Wolfhagen

LK Fritzlar-Homberg &
LK Ziegenhain

SK-LK Marburg

SK-LK Fulda

LK Waldeck & LK Frankenberg

LK Eschwege

LK Hersfeld

LK Hofgeismar
LK Hinfeld

LK Melsungen
LK Rotenburg
Warehouse Opn
LK Witzenhausen
Liaison

RB Hessen
SK-LK Darmstadt
SK-LK Offenbach
LK Bergstrasse
LK Biidingen

LK Dieburg

LK Friedberg
SK-LK Giessen
LK Gross Gerau
LK Alsfeld

LK Erbach

LK Lauterbach

31

Col J R Newman

Capt J L Savannah
Col J R Newman
Lt Col R K Phelps
Lt Col F A Samson
Lt Col E M Lee

Maj D B Bernstein

Maj M E Chotas
Maj T Turner Jr

Capt E F Duffy
Capt F S Percy Jr

Maj J G Gavin
Capt A L Yakoubian

Ist Lt J F Owen
Lt Col A Skarry
Maj R Bard

Maj R A Gish

Lt Col T A Brown
Maj E J Dikeman
Maj J R Chambliss
Capt A W Moore
Capt G §S Iredell
Capt S C Moore Jr.
Capt H H Liebhafsky
Maj T T Turnbull Jr.
Ist Lt P J Zeller
Capt J R Newell

Capt W E. Getman
Maj F C Eggers

Ist Lt AL Husted Jr.
Lt Col W T Burt
Lt Col L G Kelly
Lt Col W A Snow
Maj A C Leggatt
Maj L S LaPrade
Maj E T Cusiek
Maj R_ J Willard
Capt J S Chapin
Capt R L Patten
Capt J J Hamel
Maj L A Claff
Capt H Nickelsberg

--- Page 35 ---
OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR

COMMANDING. OFFICER

UNIT LOCATION
BREMEN SUB-DISTRICT
E2c2 Bremen
G1C2 Wesermiinde
H4C2 Osterholz-Scharmbeck
111C2 Brake
112C2 Nordenham
Office of
Mil Govt for
Bavaria Munich

Hq 3d Mil Govt Regt Munich
Hq Co Munich

Sv Co Munich

Ist Maint Plat.” Munich

2d Maint Plat Uttenreuth
3d Maint Plat Straubing
R&T Co Munich
3d MG Med Det Munich
3d MG Med Sec Munich

BAVARIA

Office of
Mil Govt
for Bavaria

Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken

Munich

CoA Ochsenfurt
E-202 Wirzburg
F-210 Wirzburg
G-220 Aschaffenburg
G-221 Schweinfurt
H-250 Bad Kissingen
H-251 Kitzingen
1-330 Alzenau

1-331 Briickenau
1-332 Ebern

1-333, Gemiinden
1-334 Gerolzhofen
1-335 Hammelburg
1-336 Hassfurt
1-337 Hofheim
1-338 Karlstadt
1-339 Kénigshofen
1-340 Lohr

1-341 Marktheidenfeld
1-342 Mellrichstadt
1-343 Miltenberg
1-344 Neustadt Salle
1-345 Obernburg
1-346 Ochsenfurt

Bremen Sub-District
SK-LK Wesermiinde
LK Osterholz

LK Wesermarsch

GM Nordenham

EASTERN MILITARY DISTRICT
Third U.S. Army

Eastern District

3d Mil Govt Regt

Bavaria

RB Mainfranken
SK-LK Wirzburg
SK-LK Aschaffenburg
SK-LK Schweinfurt
LK Kissingen

LK Kitzingen

LK Alzenau

LK Briickenau

LK Ebern

LK Gemiinden

LK Gerolzhofen

LK Hammelburg
LK Hassfurt

LK Hofheim

LK Karlstadt

LK K6nigshofen

LK Lohr

LK Marktheidenfeld
LK Mellrichstadt
LK Miltenberg

LK Neustadt a. d. Salle
LK Obernburg

LK Ochsenfurt

Regierungsbezirk Ober & Mittelfranken

Co C Ansbach

E-203 Ansbach

F-211 Nirnberg
G-228 Ansbach
G-229 Firth

H-261 Dinkelsbiihl
H-262 Eichstadt
H-263 Feuchtwangen
H-264 Gunzenhausen
H-265 Hersbruck
H-266 Hilpoltstein

RB Ober & Mittelfranken
SK-LK Nirnberg

SK-LK Ansbach

SK-LK Firth

LK Dinkelsbiih!

LK Eichstadt

LK Feuchtwangen

LK Gunzenhausen

LK Hersbruck

LK Hilpoltstein

32

Lt Col B C Welker
Lt Col L S Diggs
Lt Col J R Reed
Capt M L Krauss
Capt G R Zeek

Brig Gen W. J. Muller

Col G. D. Grawford
Capt Wm Irwin
Capt J O'Malley
Capt J O’Malley
Ist Lt C Casper
Ist Lt C. T. Enbody
1st Lt T J May
Lt Col C Shields
Capt H S Price

Brig Gen W. J. Muller

Ist Lt H A Lenert
Lt Col M E Henderson
Maj J.B Bradford
Maj C M Emerick
Maj B Thompson
Capt M A Potter
Capt J B Lynn
Maj E E Shovea
Capt H B Clark Jr
Capt S L Tulin
Capt K N Galloway

Capt W J Tonkin
Capt E H Emery
Capt T F Griffen
Capt W Hitt

1st Lt W E Brayden
Capt A W Peterson
Capt Elmer E Kelly
Capt M B Voorhees
Capt J. J. Schaller
Capt D J Huffman
Ist Lt E F Warnke
Capt B H Logan
Capt H A Storm

lst Lt G N Hultzen
Col E M Haight
Col C H_ Andrews
Maj W R Whitaker, Jr.
Capt J D Cofer
Maj J. W. Hall

Maj W T Staats
Capt J M Hodges
Maj H W Zurn

Maj F M Dunbaugh
Maj H T Lund

--- Page 36 ---
OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER
H-267 Weissenburg LK Weissenburg Maj W S Bailey Jr
H-268 Rothenburg LK Rothenburg Maj R C Anderson
H-269 Schwalbach LK Schwabach Maj R H Stringer
H-270 Scheinfeld LK Scheinfeld Maj H C Kauffmann
H-271 Windsheim LK Uffenheim Capt M C Baer
H-272 Lauf LK Lauf Capt E N Humphrey
H-273 Neustadt a. d. Aisch LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch Maj F K Hinchey
Co B Bamberg 1st Lt M J Skwart
G-222 Bamberg SK-LK Bamberg Maj J A Watkins
G-223 Bayreuth SK-LK Bayreuth Lt Col C J-Reilly
G-224 Erlangen LK Erlangen Lt Col H Hargrave
G-225 Coburg SK-LK Coburg Maj H Lockland
G-226 Kronach LK Kronach Maj H 1 Woodall
G-227 Hof SK-LK Hof Maj A R Giroux
G-247 Lichtenfels LK Lichtenfels Maj J R Case
H-252 Ebermannstadt LK Ebermannstadt Ist Lt_J_J_ Bianchi
H-253 Hochstadt LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch Capt R G Hanford
H-254 Kulmbach LK Kulmbach Maj P B Lamson
H-255 Pegnitz « LK Pegnitz Maj M F Skinner
H-256 Munchberg LK Munchberg Maj A C Abbott
H*258 Rehau LK Rehau Capt R H Dodds
H-259 Wunseidel LK Winseidel Capt D H Alexander
H 260 Forcheim LK Forcheim Lt Col F Robie
1-347 Naila LK Naila Capt H W Newell
1-348 Stadtsteinach LK Stadtsteinach Ist Lt H F Casademont

Regierungbezirk Niederbayern & Oberpfalz

Co D
E-204
F-212
G-230

G-244
H-274
H-275
H-276
H-277
H-278
H-279
1-349
1-350
1-351
1-352
1-353
1-354
1-355
1-356
1-357
1-358
1-379
Co H
G-243
G-245
G-246
H-301
H-302
H-303
H-304
H-305
H-306
H-307
H-308
H-309
H-310
1-375
1-377
1-378

Regensburg
Regensburg
Regensburg
Weiden

Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunburg
Eschenbach
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldmiinchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Kétzting
Regensburg
Passau
Landshut
Straubing
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsiburg
Freyung
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach

RB Niederbayern & Oberpfalz

SK-LK Regensburg

SK Weiden &

LK Neustadt a. d. Wald
SK-LK Amberg

LK Cham

LK Burglengenfeld

LK Parsberg

LK Tirschenreuth

LK Neunburg vorm Wald
LK Eschenbach i. d. Opf.
LK Kemnath

LK Nabburg

LK Oberviechtach

LK Riedenberg

LK Vohenstrauss

LK Roding

LK Waldmiinchen

LK Beilngries

LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg
LK K6tzting

SK-LK Passau
SK-LK Landshut
SK-LK Straubing
LK Deggendorf
LK Eggenfelden
LK Grafenau

LK Kelheim

LK Landau a. d. Isar
LK Pfarrkirchen
LK Regen

LK Vilshofen

LK Vilsiburg

LK Wolfstein

LK Bogen

LK Dingolfing
LK Griesbach

33

Capt V A Grasso
Lt Col Hasting
Lt Col S S Speaks

Maj J C Robertson Jr.
Maj Mattox

Maj C E McDaniel
Capt E. Fichter

Maj H J Mrachek
Capt F P Murray
Maj J J Egan

Capt W R Baylies
Capt W G Montpas
Capt G Doyle

Capt R A Berry
Capt C V Hansen

Ist Lt C. A. Harrington
Capt C R Bucheit
Capt J E Hudson
Capt J J Mallon

1st Lt W N Blanton
Capt S. E. Prail

Capt E L Davis, Jr.
Ist Lt C_G Savelli

Lt Col F W Hanger
Capt A J Wann

Maj H T Olsen

Capt L C Smallenberger
Maj E W Manning
Capt H §S Rick

Capt O DeBogdan
Maj R M Stribling
Capt W D Baird
Capt A R Sphar
Capt W. J. Fitzpatrick
Capt J W Fleshman
Capt R W Douglass
Capt A G Albert
Capt B E Reichhardt
Capt A S Gallant

--- Page 37 ---
OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR
UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER
1-379 Kdtzting LK Kotzting Capt E. L. Davis, Jr.
1-380 Mainburg LK Mainburg Capt W Wickersham
1-381 Mallersdorf LK Mallersdorf Capt S R Jacobs
1-382 Rottenburg LK Rottenburg Capt E A Russo
1-383, Viechtach LK Viechtach Capt J F Vaile
1-385 Wegscheid LK Wegscheid Capt H Walter
Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Co F Munich lst Lt J MacDonough
E-205 Munich RB Oberbayern Lt Col J W Hensel
F-213 Munich SK-LS Munich Lt Col E Keller Jr
G-236 Partenkirchen LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen Maj C H Heyl (actg)
G-237 Ingolstadt SK-LK Ingolstadt Capt L H Norins
G-238 Munich LK Munich Maj M T Mawrence
H-286 Firstenfeldbruck LK Firstenfeldbriick Capt J J McBride
H-287 Landsberg LK Landsberg Capt C A Rein
H-288 Pfaffenhofen LK Pfaffenhofen Maj C A Sloat
H-289 Starnberg LK Starnberg Capt M Shellenberger
H-290 Weilheim LK Weilheim Maj E C Wills
H-291 Wolfratshausen LK Wolfratshausen Capt C H Bischoff
1-362 Aichach LK Aichach Capt L. R. Day
1-364 Schrobenhausen LK Schrobenhausen Capt R G Hill Jr
1-365 Munich Bavarian Supply Capt F S Franke
1-367 Dachau LK Dachau Ist Lt V A Burke
1-368 Schéngau LK Schéngau Maj C E Carlsen
Co E Wasserburg Capt J T Collier
G-231 Freising LK Freising Maj A G Snow
G-232 Miesbach LK Miesbach Maj L L Haupt
G-233, Traunstein LK Traunstein Maj F L Tracy
G-234 Altétting LK Altétting Maj R L Montague
G-235 Rosenheim SK-LK Rosenheim Maj R G MacDonald
H-280 Erding LK Erding Capt H J Bierman
H-281 Laufen LK Laufen Capt S L Jones Jr
H-282 Mihldorf LK Mihldorf Maj C E Vickerman
H-283 Wasserburg LK Wasserburg Capt M J Groves
H-284 Bad Tolz LK Tolz Maj J Letteriello
H-285, Aibling LK Aibling Maj E J Newmeyer
H-311 Berchtesgaden LK Berchtersgaden Maj M E DiPietro
1-361 Ebersberg LK Ebersberg Maj G E Horwarth

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

CoG
E-206
F-214
G-239
G-240
G-241
G-242
H-292
H-293
H-294
H-295
H-296
H-297
H-298
H-299
H-300

1-369

1-370

1-372

1-373

1-374

Ziemetshausen
Augsburg
Augsburg
Dillingen
Weissenhorn
Sonthofen
Kempten
Donauwérth
Ginzberg
Markt Oberdorf
Memmingen
Mindetheim
Neuberg
Nordlingen
Fiissen
Krumbach
Illertissen
Kaufbeuren
Wertingen
Friedberg
Schwabmfinchen

RB Schwaben
SK-LK Augsburg
LK Dillingen

LK Neu Ulm

LK Sonthofen
SK-LK Kempten

LK Donauwérth

LK Ginzberg

LK Mart Oberdorf
LK Memmingen

LK Mindelheim

LK Neuberg a. d. Donau
LK Nordlingen

LK Fiissen

LK Krumbach

LK Illertissen

LK Kaufbeuren

LK Wertingen

LK Friedberg

LK Schwabmiinchen

34

Ist Lt O Meirhenry
Col R L Hiles

Lt Col R A Norton
Maj C F Baker
Maj J A Blakemore
Maj A B Ebbers
Ist Lt B M Ziegler
Maj H L Snapp
Capt J G Horrell
Capt J O Renalds
Maj R F Wagner
Maj E C Bunker
Capt W H Oswalt
Capt S H Brown
Capt T R Schweer
Ist Lt L. E. Dunn
Ist Lt F E Kettunen
Maj E M Ross
Capt R E Hale
Maj P S Webb

Ist Lt L E Smith

--- Page 38 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR
MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER

Office of

Mil Govt

(U.S. Sector
Berlin) Berlin

U.S. MILITARY DISTRICT — BERLIN

U.S. Berlin District Col F L Howley

Detachments Disbanded:
2d Mil Govt Regt:
Co E: 1-154
Bremen Enclave: 110C2

35

--- Page 39 ---
