--- Page 2 ---
No. 14 — 27 October 1945

Military Government

Weekly
Information Bulletin

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
WESTERN MILITARY DISTRICT
GREAT HESSE, NORTH WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

23 OCTOBER 1945

awourk
ECK wy
WALO fw ace fan %

BRITISH ZONE
ka’

FRANKENBERG “L, eRITZLARt

Mey eae ——
pu

of sh
HAIN ( HERSFELD

e
.
4
"
tt

/

(
\

2
L FRENCH
Sf,

LEGEND

RED REGIERUNGSBEZIRKE AND
LANDESBEZIRK BADEN

BLACK  LANDKREISE AND STADTKREISE

Bs ZONE

{ mest
Z

SOURCE’ OMG-R@I BRANCH

--- Page 4 ---
No. 14— 27 OCTOBER 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
CONTENTS

PAGE

Military Government Letters and Instructions Issued ThisWeek 4

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY. 2. 2. we eS
The Council of Minister Presidents Sooo ooo o S
The Conference of Economic Agencies . te 8
ASR and Civilian Status. © 2 2 2 1 ee eee 10
War Comes Home for the Winter. . . 2... . 11
Guest in the House... «1. eee eee eee 16

GENERAL... 19
Tuberculosis Strikes Again. . . . . . . . ss 19

GERMAN REACTIONS .......... . 22
Toward a New Political Party? 2... 1. 2. 1 1. 22

VOICES OF EXPERIENCE te ee ee we ee 24

PRESS COMMENTS .... 1... 1+ 1 +s 26
Eisenhower. Declaration Praised . . . . . . . « » 26
War Criminals 2 6 6 6 ee ee DT
Defense of France. . . . . . 2... sss ss 28
Moscow Comments ....... +... 4... 28
Random Comments ... . . ss ee ee ee 28

Station List’ 2 6 eee ee ee ee ee 80

--- Page 7 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT LETTERS AND
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED DURING THE WEEK

Amendments to the Directive to Commanding Generals, Military
Districts, dated 7 July, 1945, Subject: Administration of Military

Government in U. S. Zone in Germany.

(Control Council Law No. 3, providing for increase

in the rate of taxation, as Annex J-3 to Section XXIV)

(Control Council Proclamation No. 3, Subject:.
"Fundamental Principles of Judicial Reform," as

Annex I-1 to Section XXIV)

Interzonal Exchange of German Refugees and German "Ex-

pellees”. 2... 1 we eee

Parcels, Food, Red Cross — Receipt, Storage and Issue .

Individual Repatriation Problems and Inquiries .

Care of United Nations Displaced Persons

FINANCIAL INSTRUCTIONS NOT PREVIOUSLY LISTED:
Procedure for Financing Payment of U. S. Army Requisitions

and Civilian Labor in Germany

Withdrawal of Military Government Sub-Accountant .

Reports by German Authorities of Payments Covering U. S.

Army Requisitions and Civilian Labor .

21 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

21 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

18 Oct. 1945(fileGE-EX
383.7-1 Germany)

19 October 1945 (file
AG 430 GEC-AGO)

19 October 1945 (file
AG 383.7 GEC-AGO)

17 October 1945 (file
AG 383.7 GEC-AGO)

9 August 1945
(AG 121 GEC-AGO)

13 September 1945
(AG 114.1 GEC-AGO)

4 October 1945 (AG
400.312 GEC-AGO)

--- Page 8 ---
Highlights of Pp olicy

A significant step in carrying out
United States policy in Germany was
taken at Stuttgart on the 17th of Oc-
tober with the inauguration, by Lt.
General Lucius D. Clay, of the Council
of State Minister Presidents. Now that
top-level regional administrative or-
ganization of the U.S. Zone is com-
plete, with the establishment of three
States and the appointment of Minister
Presidents and their staffs to govern
them — Dr. Wilhelm Hégner in Ba-
varia, Dr. Reinhold Maier in North
Wiirttemberg-Baden, and Dr, Karl Gei-
ler in Great Hesse — the time -has come
to co-ordinate their activities and to
exercise supervisory control over them
from the top, at the same time per-
mitting the lower levels of government
to function without the active parti-
cipation of Military Government.

GENERAL CLAY OPENS
CONFERENCE

With this in mind, the three State
Minister Presidents and the Oberbiir-
germeister of Bremen, Wilhelm Kaisen,
were called to Stuttgart by General
Lucius Clay for the purpose of setting
up a General Council.

In his opening remarks, General Clay
underlined the fact that American po-
licy toward Germany is, and will con-
tinue to be, firm, its fundamental ob-
jective being to destroy Germany’s
war potential.

The Council of Minister
Presidents

The First Top-Level German Regional
Administrative. Body in U.S. Zone Is
Inaugurated at Stuttgart.

The full text of the speech follows:

"I am very glad to have the oppor-
tunity to meet with the Lander Minister
Presidents. This is the first time such
a meeting has been possible, as we have
only recently completed the formation
of Land governmental machinery. Your
task as Minister Presidents is a difficult
one. You have been asked to accept this
responsibility because of your known
opposition.. to nazism, and your liberal
views. In undertaking this task you will
be rendering a real service to your
people and, if successful, to the world.

"I think that at our first meeting a
brief-summary of United States policy
in Germany would be appropriate, as
you must operate under this. policy.
United States policy in Germany is a
firm policy. It may seem hard, but it
has been made so to destroy the war
potential of Germany. It does not have
as. its purpose the destruction of Ger-
many as an economic unit, nor the
destruction of the German people.

HANDLING OF MANDATORY ARRESTS

‘It includes as a primary objective
complete denazification, which requires
not only the removal of nazis from
places of prominence in all. parts of
German ‘life, but will also provide for

--- Page 9 ---
the separation from the nazis of any
wealth accumulated as a result of party
activity.

We have made many mandatory arrests.
For security reasons, the arrestees have
been prevented from communicating
with their families. This is not the
American way, and shortly we will permit
arrestees to notify their families of their
whereabouts. We also realize that a man-
datory system of arrests may make some
mistakes, and we are arranging for the
review of the records of arrestees by
your tribunals, so that you may recom-
mend to us those instances which appear
to you to be unjust.

"Our policy likewise. includes “com-
plete demilitarization. This means not
only a breaking up of military. forces,
but also a de-industrialization, directed
principally at heavy industries. All arms,
ammunition, war implements and spe-
cial facilities for their production must
be destroyed. Metals, machinery and
chemicals will be left only to meet the
internal post-war needs of Germany
itself.

TYPE OF ECONOMY DESCRIBED

These post-war needs are to. provide
a standard of living which will not ex-
ceed the average of the surrounding
countries excepting the United King-
dom and Russia. You will be permitted
to develop an import and export pro-
gram to sustain such a standard of
living. Its success will depend on your
ability to increase agricultural pro-
duction and to develop light industry.
Concentrations of industrial power will
be dispersed and will not be permitted
to reform.

"We. know that the immediate
problems of transport and coal will
make it many months before even this
standard. of living can be reached. The

transport situation is improving slowly.
The coal situation is improving even

‘more slowly, and it will be many

months before coal can be made avail-
able for Germany to permit any
widespread economic rehabilitation.

”On the positive side of the picture,
we propose to return to-you as quickly
as possible the responsibility for self-
government. Our policy calls for -the
decentralization of governmental auth:
ority to’ the Land level. We expect
within the next two and a half months
to remove our personnel from lower
governmental units, except as required
for inspection and security. We propose
to start the:election of representative
assemblies at. the Gemeinde level. in
January of next year. We understand
that a number of you feel that this is
too soon. However, we know of no
other. way in which democratic pro-
cesses in Germany can be set in motion.

‘RETURN FREE PRESS

“We propose. to return to you a free
press and a free radio at. the earliest
possible date. You now have a complete
freedom of religious worship. We also-
propose to remove any obstacles which
may have been placed: in the way: of
liberal educational opportunities.

While increasing governmental auth-
ority at the Land level, we still believe
in the operation of Germany as an
economic unit. We are supporting the
establishment of central administrative
machinery for finance, industry, trans-
port, communications, and foreign
trade. We also believe that such ad-
ministrative. agencies are desirable for
food and agriculture, and labor.
"However, these central administrative
agencies do not exist now. Land units
have been formed in our Zone. “It"is
essential that there be complete .‘co-
ordination of governmental matters be-

--- Page 10 ---
tween these Land units. This is‘ especi-
ally true of the special administrative
services such as post offices, transport,
etc., which must serve all the Lander.
The securing of this coordination is
your job and not ours.

COUNCIL AN INTERIM MEASURE

"We do not wish to establish a zonal
German capital in the United States
Zone, as we believe that. central ad-
ministrative machinery is essential .to
the operation of.Germany as an econ-
omic unit. Therefore, we propose ‘as an
interim. measure .to establish here ‘in
Stuttgart for our Zone a Council of
Minister Presidents. You will meet
periodically to confer on mutual prob-
lems. You may establish a small. secre-
tariat and staff to which you may dele-
gate such of your authority as you
deem desirable.

”A small. American staff will be: as-
signed to Stuttgart to supervise the
work of the Council and to see that it
keeps within. the ‘scope of approved
United. States policy. Since you. will in
fact develop the measures necessary for
full coordination between your units, it
must be: assumed: that each of you in-
dividually will: carry out what you. have
agreed to collectively. :

"Today we want you to draw up
your charter for our approval and to
set a date for another meeting as soon
as possible at which you will select your
secretariat, develop methods of financ-
ing your organization, and establish
your secretariat in office.

"In turning over the meeting to you
for the preparation of this charter, I
wish to emphasize that, within expressed
United States policy; ’yours is the re-
sponsibility.’ We will not . dictate to
you. except as you violate expressed
policy. We expect’ you to accept ‘and to
carry out: your responsibility within
that policy.” : :

At ‘the conclusion ‘of General Clay’s
speech the three Minister Presidents
proceeded. to the business of their first
meeting. Dr. Maier was chosen by them
to ‘preside over the sessions for the
initial period .of three’ months. » The
others, it is presumed, will follow in
turn.

The most weighty matter before the
Council was the proposal for the es-
tablishment of a General Secretariat to
be in permanent session at Stuttgart. A
draft Charter setting up this body had
been’ prepared before the meeting by
Dr. Hégner. After some discussion, in
which. it was emphasized that the
Secretariat must not become simply an
organ of bureaucracy nor an. ad-
ministrative body with highly cen-
tralized -authority, Dr. Hdgner’s text
was adopted with minor changes.

“PLAN FOR SECRETARY GENERAL

The Charter provides for the appoint-
ment..of a Secretary General, who will
be head of the Secretariat, and of a
Representative from each State who
will be assisted by the necessary
Ministerial experts. Offices. will be set
up. with the specific task of collecting
and preparing questions for co-ordina-
tion. However, the Secretariat itself will
have no power of decision. This, as
well as the executive power of carrying
out decisions will be the task of the
Councii of Minister Presidents itself,
and of the Minister Presidents in their
respective States.

Thus, when a question arises which’
will require co-ordinated action in the
three States, it will be referred through
the Representatives to the Secretatiat.
The question will then be studied under
the guidance of competent and interested
authorities provided as required, by the
three States. Recommendations will be
drawn up:and presented at. the next

--- Page 11 ---
meeting of the Council of Minister Pre-
sidents, who will decide upon a common
course of action and implement their
decisions with the necessary executive
orders. The experts who were called in
for consultation in the Secretariat will
return to their normal functions, which,
presumably, will mean carrying out the
decisions within their respective States,
under local authority, however, and not
under any authority deriving from the
Secretariat.

ITS FLEXIBLE CHARACTER

It will be seen, then, that the Secre-
tariat is a highly flexible organization.
It may, if occasion demands, become
quite comprehensive in scope, or it may

limit itself to a mere liaison function.
" One thing is certain, it will not be
endowed with any of the executive
authority properly belonging to the
State governments. Should a central
government be set up for all of Ger-
many, the Secretariat will be in a posi-
tion to facilitate the integration of the
U.S. Zone into the composite organi-
zation, after which it could be readily
disbanded without prejudice to the con-
tinued successful functioning of the
States within the Zone.

The official chosen as Secretary
General, Dr. Friedrich Sitzler, has long
been known both inside and outside of
Germany for his liberal and progressive
spirit. He was Minister of Labor for the

Reich before 1933, and one of Ger.
many’s last delegates to the League of
Nations. It is certain that under his
leadership the Secretariat will be of
greatest possible value to the German
civil administration without infringing
upon the authority of the separate gov-
ernments. Sitzler will name five persons
to sit with him on the permanent com-
mittee.

SMALL U. S. UNIT PLANNED

Although the Secretariat will enjoy a
large degree of freedom, it is planned
that a small-group of American officers
will exercise a supervisory control over
its activities.

After having discussed the function-
ing and organization of the Secretariat,
the Council of Minister Presidents
selected November 6th as the date of
their next meeting. Meanwhile they are
to study the question of settling in the
U.S. Zone the 2,000,000 German re-
fugees and expellees from the Sudeten-
land, Poland and Hungary. Quotas are
to be drawn up for the different
localities and housing allocations made.
Thus, at its first meeting the Council
is faced with a problem which requires
co-ordination and co-operation to the
highest possible degree. Once’ the
Secretariat has started functioning,. it
will provide the necessary contact’ be-
tween the three Governments to effect
a solution.

The Conference of Economic Agencies

THE great importance of the meeting
at Stuttgart lies in the fact that it was
the first occasion which the Minister
Presidents have had to exchange their
views and chart a course of common
action. ‘However, it was not the first

contact made. between the three States.
This was done, on a large scale, about
a week earlier at Hochst (the 10th, 11th,
and 12th of October), at a conference
of representatives of German :Economic
Control Agencies. This conference

--- Page 12 ---
foreshadows, in its method of opera-
tion and in its actual accomplishments,
the manner in which governmental
agencies may be expected to function
in the future, when questions arise
which concern the three States of the
U.S. Zone rather than just one part of
it. It also anticipates the type of work
which the Secretariat of the Council of
Minister Presidents will be called on
to do.

The conference was called to permit
German authorities to discuss among
themselves their common problems
and to receive from American officials
a clarification of policies which will
govern their work. It served particular-
ly to explain the operation of Law No.
8 and to answer the questions of Ger-
man officials regarding the execution
of its provisions.

Government officials were represen-
ted at the conference from all the major
economic fields: Food and Agriculture;
Industrial Production; Distribution,
Trade and Allocation; Coal; Price Con-
trol; Labor and Social Insurance; Re-
gional Statistics; and Public Utilities.

SPECIALISTS’ MEETINGS

‘After an introductory meeting, the
officials present met in committees of
their functional specialties and discus-
sed with U.S. officers the questions on
the agenda for the purpose of pre-
paring. recommendations and _ sug-
gestions on possible improvements in
the operation of German agencies in
the field of economics.

Representatives of the Regional
Economic Offices were interested parti-
cularly in the general aspect of the
situation and in interzonal matters. In-
dustrial production, public utilities,
rationing scales and standards (other
than food) were all dealt with by this
group. First steps were taken toward
establishing a systematic allocation of
commodities between the States. Inter-

zonal trade and the adoption of uniform
procedures to govern the movement of
goods within the Zone received detailed
attention, and it is expected that uni-
form regulations will be promulgated
for all three States.

The committee representing the Food
and Agriculture administrations discus-

sed at length the development of a
balanced agricultural program, food

processing, and food rationing stand-
ards and scales. They, also, are now
drawing up uniform regulations to
govern the allocation of agricultural
products and supplies between the
States, in conjunction with representa-
tives from the Regional Economic Offi-
ces.

Representatives of the Price Forma-
tion Offices discussed price control,
price increases and subsidy payments.
Here again emphasis was laid on the
necessity for working out a common
plan of action for the three States.

Directors of Labor and Social Insurance
Offices had the following agenda:
Housing standards; Labor relations;
Labor supply; Social Insurance; and
Wages, Hours, and Labor standards. ~

It was in the field of statistics that
the most immediate and concrete results
were obtained. The question of statisti-
cal information is of paramount im-
portance to all the agencies represented,
as without it they would not be in a
position to carry on their work. It was
found that at present Bavaria has the
only well-organized and functioning
Regional Statistical Agency in the U.S.
Zone. There is also a small bureau in
Stuttgart, but it is not now in operation
due to a lack of key personnel. The
same applies to the statistical agencies
in Karlsruhe and Darmstadt.

PLAN FOR STATISTICAL AGENCIES

This being the situation, it was agreed
that Great Hesse and North Wiirttem-
berg-Baden would immediately organize

--- Page 13 ---
statistical agencies capable of fulfilling
the needs of the two States. The Ba-
varian officials agreed to furnish groups
of highly-qualified specialists on a tem-
porary. basis for establishing these
agencies. Material and personnel: now
available in Great Hesse and. North
Wiirttemberg-Baden will be used in
their reactivation. It was then, agreed,
as a matter of administrative detail, that
the statistical agencies ‘should have an
independent status within each State,
not falling under the jurisdiction of any
one office, as their services are- required

by all.

In the solution of this problem the
pattern which will be followed in future
questions of concern to all States in the
U.S. Zone can be clearly seen. The
Council of Minister Presidents, the
General Secretariat, and conferences of
the type held at Héchst are each a piece
of the same plan which aims at achiev-
ing maximum co-ordination and co-
operation within the U.S. Zone, while
gradually turning’ over to the German
civil administration the responsibility
for their own government.

ASR and Civilian Status

Existing regulations on the conver-
sion of military personnel to civilian
status have been modified by a recent
interpretation by .G- 1, USFET, of AR
615-365. Formerly, military personnel
desirous of converting to civilian status
and accepting. civilian. employment in
this Theater were obliged to. posses
point-eligibility therefor. Now, however,
military personnel. may be.. discharged
to accept civilian employment without
the necessary point -eligibility, provided

that the civilian positions for which
they are intended are concerned with
the Military Government for Germany,
as opposed to command housekeeping
and administrative functions. © Prior
approval from USFET must be obtained
in each instance. Requests for discharge
under this authority will be addressed
to Commanding General, USFET, - at-
tention: Office of Military Government,
(U. S. Zone).

In last week's Bulletin, announcement was made of a revised War Department policy
to the effect that persons seeking civilian status for service with the Army in Europe
are now entitled to 45 days’ temporary duty, under the RR & R Program, in the
States. This decision has been modified in regard to service with Military Government,
for which temporary duty of 30 days’ duration remains in force.

10

--- Page 14 ---
WAR Comes Home

i

ve WINTER

* \ y .

The Frankfurt Detachment Surveys the Situation

BY MAJOR H. N. HOOPER
Trade and Industry Officer, Detachment E 6

OCCUPATION came to Frankfurt in
March, when the Fifth Infantry Division
entered the town. By that time a large
part of the ancient and historic city had
been reduced to rubble.

Air bombardment, as always, left a
housing problem which survived hostil-
ities. From March to October, essential
industries have attempted to renew
operation, in order to provide the ne-
cessary materials to rehabilitate and
winterize adequate dwelling space for
the decreased population. They have not
succeeded, since, for unavoidable rea-
sons, almost no coal has been made

11

available. Nearly eight months of pro-
duction has produced a negligible result.

Now, with winter almost upon us, no
materials whatever are available for
reconstruction, and only a minimum can
be had for emergency repairs and
winterizing. To prevent any further in-
crease in the population, return of
evacuees is limited by ordinance to dis-
charged soldiers and those with essential
skills. The thermometer has already been
down to forty degrees; the rainy season
is beginning; and a large part of the
population is still not adequately housed
for winter.

Frankfurt is more than 70 per cent
destroyed. The Old City” is completely
gone, and 70 per cent of the more

--- Page 15 ---
densely populated area is destroyed
over 50 per cent. Most of the area in
use by the Armed Forces falls in the
five to sixteen per cent damaged area,
and much of it in the completely un-
damaged sections.

Before the war, Frankfurt’s popula-
tion was about 560,000. Today it is
338,173. By 1 January 1946 it is ex-
pected to reach 365,000.

Before the war, the people of Frank-
furt lived in 177,373 dwelling units*
(apartments or single family houses)
which contained 520,564 rooms, ex-
clusive of kitchens and bathrooms. To-
day, 26 per cent of the dwelling build-
ings (representing 49.9 per cent of the
dwelling units) are completely gone, and
twelve per cent are so badly damaged
that they are uninhabitable. After mili-
tary personnel (a sizeable part of the
present population) is provided for,

* 10,000 additional units were built
during the war.

there remain only 136,456 rooms avail-
able for civilians, including iving rooms,
dining rooms and entrance rooms.

Prewar, there was one inhabitant for
every room, or, if kitchens are included,
eight for every ten rooms. To-day the
average is 2.5 per room and on 1
January 1946 it is estimated that it will
be 2.7. If civilians were to sleep in every
kitchen today, they could spread out to
1.5 per room.

"HABITABLE"

Five persons in every two rooms
hardly sounds like a severe emergency
situation, provided the rooms function
as they are meant to and give shelter,
admit light and retain the heat of such
fuel as people have. But what is the con-
dition of these rooms? 24,000 of them
are usable only in summer, and an
additional 63,000 are damaged to a
medium or minor extent, damage which
must be repaired before they can be
usable in winter. There are holes in

a]

i

Before and After: The problem of resettlement of a large part of Frankfuri's population, which started when
these buildings first oozed into the streets is still far from solved even though grass now grows over the ruins.

{2

--- Page 16 ---
Though Frankfurt’s population sank after hundred of thousands were left homeless, there are still
insufficient facilities to safeguard the health of the occupation forces and the Germans.

walls and ceilings, doors are lacking or
do not fit, roofs above them have no
waterproof covering and in many places
are absent altogether; and above all,
windows are empty sash or gaping
holes. And these rooms are not those
in buildings which require major repair
or reconstruction.

To repair only the minor damage in a
minimal way requires only the simplest
of building materials and labor. For
hospitals, essential public utilities and
food plants (these three take but a
small portion of the total), plus civilian
housing, such items as

6,375,000 board feet of lumber
400,000 square feet of tar paper
1,450,000 square feet of glass
4,800 sacks of plaster
40,000 hundredweight of roofing
slate
are required. These requirements do not
account for the winterizing of schools,
court rooms, offices, industrial plants,

13

and railroad facilities, all of which need
glass and will have to close in severe
weather, or possibly for two months at
a time, without these materials.

LABOR NOT A PROBLEM

Repairs were scheduled for August
through October, when weather would
permit outdoor work. Now, but a few
weeks of suitable weather remain.

It sounds incredible under the circum-
stances; today there is no labor problem
in the emergency housing repair pro-
gram in Frankfurt. Skilled labor is ex-
tremely short and the demands of the
Armed Forces are heavy, but for civilian
repairs so little material is available that
almost no labor is needed. If one has
glass or roofing, what need is there for
a glazier or roofer?

Against the material requirements for
emergency repair and winterizing, the
city has received twenty per cent of the
lumber requirement, ten and a half per
cent of the plaster needed. Fifty-four

--- Page 17 ---
As was the case in many bombed-out cities in Europe, Frankfurt’s highest population density was in the
oldest and most vulnerable part of the town. This spot in the Old City, was so completely burned out that
little can be salvaged from the ruins to patch up repairable dwelling units.

14

--- Page 18 ---
per cent of the .roofing -slate needed
has been obtained'in the form of roof-

ing tiles and. sheet metal. Sand, gravel,!

and: bricks, on ‘the ‘other hand, have
presented few problems, but one cannot
fill in all windows’ with ‘brick, or roof
houses with these materials.

“Some ‘critical ‘materials, of course,
have been obtained from’ sources not
ditectly under Military Government
control. The civilians have put these
materials, which they ”scrounged,” to
good use with their own hands, but
their total effect is almost negligible.
An. officer in Detachment E-6 has been
assigned the task of obtaining these
materials, presenting requirements, pro-
cessing’ allocations, obtaining releases,
and’ supervising material distribution
through the Bauamt, from mid-August
to the present time, and the above’is his
box-score. He. has not been sitting back
counting his.points; nor have the per-
sonnel of ; the numerous headquarters
through whom these efforts were made
and whose efficiency and helpfulness
have been evident throughout. Wherein,
then, lies the reason?

‘WHY MATERIALS ARE NOT
AVAILABLE .

Foremost is. the extreme shortage
of materials, concomitant with the
equally acute shortage of basic: com-
modities such as coal. The effects of the
disintegration of a complex, industrial
economy could not be overcome to meet
the requirements for even modest emer-
gency repairs on such a large scale, even
in'the simple processes required to make
building qgnaterials quickly enough. Lime,
for example, could not be brought from

Agchaffenburg until... railroad . bridges

_ were. repaired and: there .was: coal’ for,,

locomotives. Now that lime is available, |

~ it. cannot’ be~ made : into plaster. until

15

more coal is available for that process.
Tar paper:cannot come from Darmstadt ,,
until one and one half tons of coal,
required to process one tom: (20,000
square feet).:of | paper, - is available. « It
cannot be impregnated -with asphalt
until enough ‘coal. is available to. war-
rent starting: the’ gas- works, necessary
for. their by-product. of. tar. -: Sawmills
must: await- the return. of discharged
soldiers for labor.and the tools required
for logging. :

The necessity for shifts in the military
set-up, to’ keep pace with changing
situations, has had an unavoidable con-
tributory éffect on slow production‘ and
distribution. Transfers of function,’ in-
ternal’ reorganizations,’ changes ‘in  per-
sonnel, all are necessarily. enemies <of
expedition. - The channel for presenting
requirements -and obtaining releases. on
Tuesday is gone by Friday; on Monday
aH must be reco-ordinated with a new
office:. Meeting an emergency situation
without emergency processes’ is always
a difficult: matter. However, the ‘fact
remains that deliveries cannot be made
of materials which exist only in. negli,
gible quantities, or which cannot be
manufactured because other materials
don’t exist’ or must go to’ other needs:

Too strong a word, “emergency”?
Possibly. Whether it is’ or not, or
whether Military Government is merely
trying to ’coddle” the German civilians,
will be disclosed by ‘the Public Safety
and Public Health reports” of the next
few months.

--- Page 19 ---
Germans Already Realize That Les Winter ,

Will Be an’ ee

G UESTin the House

«THE PRESENT housing piogtam: vin
the U-S. Zone’ might... better be “ealled
an emergency or: makeshift shelter pro-
gram. Because of the lack. of timexand
materials, existing’ policy’ prohibits new
construction’ or even extensive rebuild-
ing. Only buildings that lénd' themselves
to emergency médasures and. which: ‘will
use the minimum of materials to pfo-
duce shelter for the maximum number
of people may be. repaired... It is. the
responsibility. of the Germans them-
selves,. to .carry out. this. program in
every. respect, except for the. allocation
of materials to the State Governments.

‘For ahyoné who: has seen ‘the ruins
that once were German cities and towns,
it is not difficult to realize the magnitude
of the seemingly’ hopeless ‘problem. of
supplying even weathertight ‘roofs, to
say nothing of ° repairing . windows,
doors, walls and floors and’ of: providing
needed utilities.

IN SUMMER IT WAS CLEAR SAILING

During the summer months ‘it. was
possible for the people.:to: live in: build-
ings without doors, windows, partitions
and even roofs. With winter here, their
condition becomes critical.

In almost: every city and town the
necessity for requisitioning the’ best
quarters’ as billets for’ the::occupational
troops, UNRRA, and other agencies, ‘has
greatly reduced the amount of winter-
tight shelter available for civilians. The
civilians have been crowded into the

remaining sound and semi-sound houses’

in the cities or have sought quarters in
the outlying villages.

The overcrowding, even in small cities,

16

is alarming from any health standard.
Reparts. show..a density. of as high aS

four and a-half persons, per. room, in-
cluding living and dining rooms.

Statistics are not complete, but it ap-
pears that the average density is abotit
three persons per room, including living
and ,difing rooms, There are many
people living in buildings woefully’ un-
suited to the rigors of winter. _

The following are a few eae af
the:. percentages. of dwelling — units’
destruction, based. on: Housing Reports
now pee received:

“Dwelling °/ Totally’ oo Daim:

City Units Destroyed* ‘agéd*
Wiesbaden “49,982 15.5 76.6
Darmstadt’ 34,690 55.0 215
Hanau. 4,497 49.6. 50.0 ©
Karlsruhe 57,450 | 29.7" 51.5.
Stuttgart 69,810 55.0 33.0
Frankfurt: |: -187,852** 449.9; «39.0

A large majority’ of the buildings
listed as damaged are inhabited, bat are
in‘iurgent need of repairs’ before the
coming winter.

‘DOUBLE TROUBLE

The problem ‘of making any appreci?
able number of* buildings ‘and’ rooms
habitable would be difficult enough: in
normal timés.: However, becttse”of the
short tinte sincé the ‘collapse of: Gérmdny
and‘ the‘ complete disorganization of
industry, transportation and labor, it has

® The percentage of destruction is
quoted for dwelling units, not for
dwelling buildings, as is the case in the
preceding article. A building may con-
tain several units.

--- Page 20 ---
Emergency repaits ‘include: substitute windows (bricked, up, ‘vith small 5 panes cal glass or cellophane);

weatherproofing ‘intérior partitions which riow must serve as exterior walls; converting floors into roofs

by means. of lightweight ‘tarpaper and improvised slope for drainage; ‘sealing door openings with

unseasoned lumber; placing. makeshift beams for vertical supports; imptovising plumbing systems;
: and buttressing damaged walls.

been doubly difficult to cope with the
situation. .Another difficulty which has

slowed up the program is the denazi-

fication of Bauémter, Wohnungsadmter,
and industry in general. This has meant
in many instances the employment of
less efficient and. less experienced per-
sonnel to handle an extremely compli-
cated, program,

» During the tactical phase, and after
the collapse, all.existing : stockpiles of
building and. construction materials were.
frozen for. the use of the military. These
stocks were quickly consumed in the
construction and repair of vital Army
installations.’ Gradually, building ma:
terials plants were put into operation, but
théir output’ has proved insuffitient to
meet ::the demands: of the Army in-
stallations, so that practically nothing
was available to; -civilians.

“Many: plants manufacturing building
materials cannot ‘be’ activated, because

17

of the critical, shortage of coal and
transportation of raw materials, In some
cases, plants have had to shut down be-
cause their fuel or raw materials supply
was- exhausted.

SALVAGE IS UNECONOMICAL

One, might think ‘that a great deal
could be accomplished by using salvaged
materials. To some extent this is being
done, but because of extensive fire
damage the salvage of the most vital
materials, ‘such ‘as lumber, roofing felt,
tile and glass, is practically nil. Bricks
can be salvaged. Such work, however,
takes tools and labor, ‘both of -which
are scarce... Salvaged. bricks and _half-
bricks. require more cement and lime
than clean,. whole bricks: More:coal: is
required to produce the extra: cement
and lime.

--- Page 21 ---
Recently ‘a, program of building-
materials allbcations (Section X (Indus-
try) of the 7 July Directive) has been
inaugurated, and some materials have
started to flow into civilian channels. It
is, however, only a trickle, and not

nearly -enough. Civilian, requirements _

alone could absorb all building materials
currently being. produced.

THE ALLOCATIONS SYSTEM

In order to obtain allocations of
materials, estimates of minimum needs
are compiled at the Landkreis and Stadt-
kreis levels by the civilian authorities.
These are reviewed by Military Govern-
ment and forwarded through civilian
and Military Government channels to
Land levels, where they are again re-
viewed, consolidated and forwarded to
Military District headquarters. Civilian
estimates, together with consolidated
estimates of military requirements, are
then submitted to Requirements and
Allocations Section, Economics Branch,
Office of Military Government (U.S.
Zone).

The Requirements and Allocations
Section allocates available materials be-
tween the civilian and military require-
ments. The allocations are made on a
percentage basis, and Military Districts
are notified of the proportions of each
class of building material destined for
military and civilian consumption. The
Military Districts in turn allocate the
civilian portion to the States, giving
them the names and locations of the
producers.

FROM MILITARY INTO CIVIL
CHANNELS

The German State governments
suballocate, on the basis of need, to the
lower levels of civilian government. It
then becomes the responsibility of the
latter to. have the distributors purchase
the materials for resale to users holding
approved building permits.

To date, because there has! been-yery_
little material actually released “£6,

“civilian use, the shortage of skilled’con: »

struction workers has. not .been greatly
felt. However, reports indicate that such

a shortage does exist and to a certain
extent. is hampering the emergency. re-
pair program. As additional materials
become available this shortage of skilled
construction labor will certainly have an
unfavorable effect on attempts to
speed necessary repairs. In order to
alleviate this shortage of skilled labor,
many communities have started training
programs, shortened apprenticeship
periods, and called attention to the
opportunities for long-range steady
employment in the building and con-
struction trades.

2,000,000 MORE TO HOUSE

With the redeployment. of U.S.
Forces, additional buildings in good
condition should become available for
civilian use. It is also to be hoped that
repatriation of the thousands of dis-
placed persons still remaining in the
U.S. Zone will help alleviate overcrowd-
ing. On the other hand, in ‘the near
future 2,000,000 German refugees, from
Poland, the Sudetenland and other for-
mer German-occupied territory will.
have to be absorbed.

The probable lack of sufficient and
correct types of food to build up re-
sistance in the bodies of the people
makes it doubly important that weather-
tight shelter be available. A well-fed
body can fight off disease caused by
exposure. However, the combination
of insufficient food together with damp,
over-crowded, unheatable rooms may
well cause disease which could spread to
our occupying forces.

Everything possible is being done by
the civilians to provide. weathertight
shelter. They have the administrative
machine set up so that immediate ad-
vantage can be taken -of all. building
materials as they are made available.

--- Page 22 ---
General

TU B E BER CU LO S | S Strikes Again

GERMANY is again experiencing ‘a
rise in the incidence of. tuberculosis, a
disease of inconspicuous character which
has taken more lives than any .other
disease in history. Tuberculosis always
flares up when the standard of living
drops, economic. stress increases, .and
public health measures deteriorate.

During the first World War, -an in-
crease in the incidence of tuberculosis
and mortality therefrom occurred all
over Europe. It was clearly evident in
Germany from the initial — onset,
and after the war a sharp upward trend
occurred ‘which brought the death rate
to double -that prevailing in 1914. With
the cessation of hostilities, the resump-
tion of normal import of food, improve-
ment in the housing situation, and the
strengthening of public health measures,
a, decided betterment occurred, mani-
fested within two years by a conspicu-
ously lowered tuberculosis mortality.
Shortly afterward, however, a grave
secondary rise took place, following on
the heels of currency inflation and the
impoverishment of a large segment of
the population. This rise was brought
under control with the introduction of

economic stabilization measures and

corresponding improvement in living
conditions and public health practices.

TRACED TO MALNUTRITION -
German experts, analyzing the causes
for increase in prevalence of tuber-
culosis, traced the rise to malnutrition
and: the-spread of disease through.un-

controlled ‘dissemination .of . infection.

They adopted a. program that led’ to-a
steady decline in tuberculosis from.1924

19

until the beginning of World War II. This
was based on improved dispensary
facilities for discovering cases: of. tuber-
culosis, better care’ in the homes and in
sanatoria, increase in, the facilities avail-
able for treatment, and centralization of
financing and general measures for
control.

During this second war, as. Ger-
many’s plight grew worse and her re-
sources more strained, the efficiency of
the tuberculosis service became notabiy
lessened. Actually, the war opened in a
period of expansion of measures for
case-finding .and_ tuberculosis control.
By 1943, however, the new measures,
which included mass X-raying, were
almost at a stand-still, and long before
this a’ break-down in public” health
practices was in evidence.

SHOWN IN PREVIOUS MEASURES

This was shown in the abrogation of
certain measures previously in effect,
such as the prohibition of persons .with
open tuberculosis from..working in in-
dustry. Official directives called’ for,-a
lessening of emphasis on anti-contagion
measures, and large numbers. of work-
ers who .would normally have been. in
sanatoria or under medical supervision
at home were accepted for factory and
other industrial work. There is good
reason to believe that such dissemina-
tion, of infection resulted from this
lowering of standards in. tuberculosis
control.

“At. the same’ time, vast numbers’ of
laborers with little or no screening for
infectious disease were brought in‘from

--- Page 23 ---
occupied countries... No estimate can
ever'be’ made of the amount of con-
tagion thus introduced, but the con-
ditions under which these laborers lived
were highly conducive to the propaga-
tion of tuberculosis.

Two other factors must have contri-
buted largely. to the now-evident in-
crease. in the extent. of tuberculosis.
These were the housing shortage and
impaired nutrition. As a result of bomb-
ing, the number ‘of habitable rooms in
the cities decreased, and crowding, with
increased opportunity for contagion,
resulted. It is notorious that:impairment
of nutrition lowers resistance to tuber-
culosis. Total caloric intake,.amount of
protein in the diet ‘and intake of certain
vitamins, all appear important in main-
taining. normal resistance. In all. of those
respects the German situation deterior-
ated in the late months of the war...

MORTALITY RATE INCREASED

The result of all these factors com-
bined has been. a steady increase in the
incidence and mortality of tuberculosis,
which rose from less than 60 per 100,000.
persons annually in 1940 to nearly 80 in
1942, the.last year for which the records
are accurate. ; ;

Germany appears today to be in the
initial phase of a rise in the incidence
of tuberculosis comparable.to that which
occurred after World War I. The death
rate from the disease has increased, and
the number of new cases discovered,
when plotted by weeks, shows a stéady
upward trend. In four months’ time,
from. June .to October, the weekly in-
cremenit for the U.S.’ Zone has increased
from an average of 300 to. 500 cases.
Moreover, the reporting is known to be
incomplets,, but trustworthy eviderice in-
dicates that there are at least 2.5 cases
af active, infectious tuberculosis’ per
thousand: civilians in the Zone. ‘This’ is
about.three. times the reported case rate
in ‘the United States.. In other

20

words, there dre nat: less ‘than “40,000
cases of active tubercufosis ‘in ‘the ‘terri.
tory occupied by U.S. _troops, in’ the”
stage making dissemination likely: This
includes discharged German prisoners.of
war, exclusive of the considerable num-
ber still in'Army: hospitals and displaced
persons in camps and still to be re-
patriated.,

’To meet this’ situation, the German
civitian ‘public health organization has
available such dispensaries, hospitals
and’ sanatoria as’ are ‘still functioning.
Many of the former dispensaries, ‘so
essential in the discovery of new cases
and proper educational measures ‘to
prevent dissemination of the:disease to
healthy persons, are-not in operation.
The ‘reasons are simple, but. real, First,
personnel . available to man them. is
inadequate, since many of the former
chiefs of these institutions are no longer
politically eligible to hold positions.
Second the transportation shortage is so
acute that eligible physicians are unable
to visit. the. dispensaries. and nurses and
workers cannot: visit patients in- their
homes for instructional: purposes.

Moreover, in the ‘larger cities many
tuberculosis dispensaries; together with
their equipment, have been destroyed.
New ‘quarters ate being found and dis-
pensdries reopened, generally less effi-
cient in operation. The same is true 6f
city general hospitals, which always ac:
cepted a certain number of tuberculous
patients for temporary emergency care
and necessary operative procedures.
Many of these “have scattered * their
various medical and surgical services;
and are. only, beginning..to reassemble
them. ;

SANATORIA. FARE BETTER

The“ sanatoria, which sare . in rural
regions, have fated':somewhat better,
but::they too are’ subject ‘to the: samé
shortage of professionally qualified per-

--- Page 24 ---
sonnel.. The»,nutritional’ level) of the
patients on-the current ration, even with
the supplement’ furnished, by law, is
significantly ‘lower than before the war.
In addition, extensive use is being made
of German. civilian sanatoria for medi-
cal: care of displaced ‘persons. In one
area of North Wiirttemberg-Baden 600
out of a total of 1000 sanatorium beds
for tuberculosis were at one time re-
Served for treatment of tuberculosis
cases developing among 70,000 displaced
persons, leaving 400 for a German po-
pulation of over 3,000, 000. As a result,
hundreds of open cases remained in
homes. Similar conditions are Present in
other areas. :

Hence,’ the German tuberculosis-con-
trol program has deteriorated. and the
disease and the death rate are rising. In
the cities the situation is worse’ than in
the country; in Berlin it is very grave,
with a reported ‘tubetculosis death ‘rate
three and a half tithes that prevailing
before the war. 4

FUTURE CONTROL IN GERMANY ,

We must never lose. sight of two
factors. First, tuberculosis is a‘com-
municable disease, and crowding and in-
discriminate mixing of people inevitably
spread it. Second, malnutrition lowers
resistance to the disease. Substantial
advance in the control of tuberculosis
can hardly be expected: until betterment
has‘occurred in-these basic factors i in the
standard of living. ‘ :

Spécific measures’ for tubercttlosis
control are urgently: needed to prevent
a bad situation: from becoming: worse,
and Military Goverfiment ‘is ‘indicating
stith measures clearly, and placing.re-
sponsibility ‘for: their. fulfillment ‘where
it’ betongs: squarely upon the shoulders
of. the German civil organization, which
has taken up.the burden left after: the
nazi: debacle. : These measures include;

' other means for discovering «cases

21

a sound reporting system, ‘without
which no public-health program can‘be
competently directed; designation ‘of
responsible German tuberculosis offi-
cials; improved operation of the tuber:
culosis dispensaries; establisfiment of
of
open disease in the population; and
increase in the number of beds available
for the isolation and care of: cases dis,
covered. : a :

With proper appreciation ‘of “the
gravity of the problem, restoration of
control can be brought about; but it
is inconceivable that an immediate re:
duction in mortality can” be ‘effected.
Tuberculosis is unlike diphtheria, ‘typ:
hoid fever and other diseases of acute
character which may spread: rapidly: but
are quickly brought under control. by
proper measures. Tuberculosis is in-
sidious in onset and slow ‘in ‘deévelop-
ment:: Fatal ‘issue ‘rarely occurs in “less
than one or two years, and may be. de-
layed as long as fifty. It is a regrettable
but inescapable fact that the ‘seeds for
an increase of the disease have already
been ‘planted. ‘The death rate ‘not’ only
of 1945 but also of 1946 will représent
a legacy, not of current failuré’ to copé
with the ‘situation, but of the conditions
forced upon the German people ‘by their
leaders’ in the long war

A: subsequent rapid _Amprovement,
however, is.to be expected if the present
German: health authorities . are made
fully aware of their responsibility. to, the
future,, and.act promptly to restore the
best tuberculosis control possible. Mili-
tary ‘Government is already guiding and
assisting: them.-:The. success of . the
measures. taken now will:be, reflected, in
the: vital. Statistics for 1947, and... for
many. ,,years_..thereafter. ; Too much
emphasis, cannot be placed, on the long-
range. aspects of the problem.

--- Page 25 ---
German Reactions

TOWARD
A NEW

IT. IS now well known by. all German
civilians that they have once again been
accorded the right to organize political
parties and, eventually, to participate in
elections. It is equally well known that
the response. to: this new’ dispensation
has not been. uniformly enthusiastic. In
fact, what enthusiasm’ or interest there
has been is ‘confined almost exclusive-
ly to a small group of professional
politicians, office holders, and the intel-
ligentsia. ’

A number of reasons have been ad-
vanced to explain this apparent apathy.

Among. others,.we, are told that anti-
nazis: were punished in 1933, . just as
nazis are being punished now. It is far

better fo,abstain altogether from politics,
as.no.one can say what the future will
bring forth. Again, the policy af Mili-
tary Government. itself is sometimes
blamed. for the present lack .of interest
in. politics. It is stated, in support of
this contention, that many Germans
were ready to resume political activity
during the very first of the liberation,
but this inital enthusiasm was quickly
stamped out by the occupation au-
thorities. Now it is impossible to re-
kindle the spirit which then prevailed.
This view was expressed in its most
extreme formby oneGerman official who
maintained that the Allies had actually
extinguished the spark of genuine re-
volution which was smoldering in Ger-
many and which might have burst-into
flame last June, consuming and destroy-
ing all vestiges of nazism, and doing it
much more effectively than our piece-
meal method.

Political PARTY?

22

Why Are the Germans Unenthusiastic
about New Political Parties?

‘But perhaps the best explanation of
German apathy may be found: in the
distrust which is felt for the parties
which have so far been organized. The
vast majority of them are composed of
personalities who were prominent in the
pre-Hitler era.;:And all. of them have
adopted platforms which are not dis-
similar from those they advocated in
1933, although necessarily much more
limited.

SOMETHING MUST BE WRONG

It occurs to the average German, no
matter how immature he may be
politically, that there must have been
something radically wrong with. these
organizations in 1933, or Hitler never
would have got into power. And, he
asks, what guarantee is there that they
will not prepare the way for another
Hitler? He remembers that in 1914 the
Social Democratic Party, in voting war
credits, in contradiction of its declared
pacifism, showed itself as militaristic as
the groups of the extreme right. He also
remembers that the NSDAP and_ the
KPD were not always the enemies which
they became after Hitler’s accession to
power. The parties of the right, in-
cluding the Bavarian Peoples - Party,
voted in favor of the ’Full-Powers Law”
which made it possible for the dic-
tatorship to be established.

--- Page 26 ---
It is with these considerations in mind
that a number of political leaders in
various communities have sought to
organize parties which would be free
of the stigma attached to the older
groups. This tendency is more pronoun-
ced on the right than on the left where
the SPD and the KPD have already
monopolized most of the attention. We
see it particularly in circles which, be-
fore 1933, would have fallen within the
orbit of the Center Party. Here it is
desired to establish an organization
which will be Christian in character, but
non-denominational and free of clerical
influence, at least free of clerical office
holders. Such a party has already been
established in Berlin and also in Frank-
furt, and there is some evidence that
the concept of a Christian party is
making great headway in Bavaria under
the capable, if somewhat over-zealous,
leadership of Dr. Stegerwald. The latter
seems to have aimed at taking over all
the political ground in Bavaria to the
right of the Social Democratic Party.
Thus he says his party is to be Catholic
but without confessional aspects; "It is
intended to welcome Protestants and
members of the old Democrat Party.” Of
course the directing nucleus will be
former members of the BVP. In some
circles it is felt that Dr. Stegerwald has
tried to cut much too wide a swathe,
and there is considerable dissatisfaction
among liberal elements that the
Christian Social Union directorate is in
such large measure made up of re-
actionaries of the old school.

ANTI-COMMUNISM IS KEYNOTE

Still another attempt to organize
a new party is reported from the uni-
versity city of Heidelberg. Here, as
might seem logical, the stress is
altogether on education, and almost no
appeal whatever is made on the basis
of social or economic background. In

23

fact, the only truly political plank in
this party’s platform lies in’ its: ex-
pressed opposition to Communism. First
of all, the leaders wish to interest all
teachers in a thorough program of re-
education of the German nation and ‘to
propagandize the need for such  re-
education to the point where — the
teaching profession will be considered
"the. supreme goal of the intelligent
German.”

GLITTERING GENERALITIES, BUT
NOTHING CONSTRUCTIVE

In Augsburg a Reconstruction Move-
ment has been started with the general
objective of building a new and better
Germany "free of nazi influerices.”
Beyond that this organization has very
little to offer except rather vague and
benevolent generalities.

Mention should also be made of
various so-called ”Democratic” parties
which have sprung up here and there.
These are, for the most part, made up
of reactionary or conservative — ele-
ments, and, as might be expected, their
program is almost entirely anti-Com-
munist.

In all of these new parties the German
sees little that can kindle his political
enthusiasm. On the one hand, he re-
cognizes under the new names the old
programs, and on the other, he sees
nothing substantial or constructive. And,
finally, he feels that the very tendency
to form new parties is in itself
dangerous, for if the electorate should
be divided into numerous _ splinter
groups, a minority party might get into
power again, as in 1933. This places the
conservative German before an almost
hopeless dilemma. He must- choose
between old parties now discredited and
new parties which have nothing to offer.
In such conditions his political apathy
will not be shaken off.

--- Page 27 ---
Voices of Exp erience

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

SUBSISTENCE HOMESTEADS FROM
WASTE LANDS

A PLAN is being prepared by an emer-
gency committee of Bremen Senators
and leading citizens whereby 1900
hectares of uncultivated land within a
radius of 25 kilometers of the city can
be made available for subsistence home-
steads. It is estimated that if all waste
land in the Sub-District were distributed
for cultivation, about 20,000 families
could be placed on small farms. While
they might not be large enough to
provide a living, home industries (manu-
facture of wooden shoes, plates, tools,
etc.) would offer an additional means
of subsistence.

CONTROL OF FOOD DISTRIBUTION
AT ITS SOURCE

THE OPERATOR of the Darmstadt
creamery reports that milk deliveries
to his plant have increased from 3,000
to 4,000 liters daily, following visits to
eight community collecting points the
preceding week by himself and Military
Government officers. Milk delivery
daily averages for urban areas in the
whole of Regierungsbezirk Hessen were
doubled after surprise inspections were
made. This increased military vigilance
at the source may be the way to prevent a
crisis in distribution until the revival of
the manufacture of consumer goods
automatically attracts food to the cities.

BREMEN'S WELFARE OFFICE

RECENT emphasis on the care of for-
mer victims of nazi persecution is
highlighted by the work of the Central
Welfare Office of Bremen, which
operates under the supervision of the
Senator for Welfare. The Office makes

24

special provision for financial support,
food, clothing, house-rents, and health
for all persons persecuted for political
or racial reasons. Survivors of. those
who died for such reasons also receive
preferential routine care. Claims of econ-
omic damages suffered by persecuted
persons are investigated, and placed be-
fore the Senate for final determinationon
action to be taken. The work of the Cen-
tral Welfare Office is limited to residents
of the city of Bremen, from which all
financial support for its activities is
derived. The favorable public attitude is
reflected in the response in voluntary
contributions to assist and extend this
work.

FUEL RATIONING PLAN

THE FUEL-RATIONING plan used in
Landkreis Osterholz-Scharmbeck (Bre-
men) is as follows: Biirgermeister are as-
signed a block of numbers by theLandrat,
and the people of each Gemeinde, on re-
gistration of their fuel requirements
with the Biirgermeister, are assigned a
number by him. The numbered list of
fuel applicants is forwarded to the
Landrat’s office. The Biirgermeister
then visits the homes of the people of
his Gemeinde to determine the amount
of fuel the household possesses. This is
deducted from the allocation for the.
household made by the Landrat’s office.

TRAINING FOR ADMINISTRATIVE
SERVICE
THE STATE Ministry of the Interior for
North Wiirttemberg-Baden announced
to the Landradte and Oberbiirgermeister

--- Page 28 ---
a forthcoming examination for posi-
tions in the higher administrative ser-
vices. A course of instruction, two or
three months’ duration, will be provided
before the examination. Candidates for
this course and for admittance to the
examination must have served for the
last three years in the practical preli-
minary administrative services, and must
be politically reliable. Landrate and

Oberbiirgermeister have been directed.

to give wide publicity to this course
and to the examination, by means of

which it is hoped to recruit competent
personnel in the higher official positions

of the State.

YOUTH MOVEMENT IN HESSEN
INSEVERAL Kreise of Hessen progress
has been made in the organization of

25

youth activities. Local clergymen and
school officials have been requested to
find leaders for the youth clubs. In Als-
feld, it is hoped to have at least one
boys’ club of the Boy Scout type
started by 20 October, and really func-
tioning a week later. The greatest diffi-
culty anticipated will be to find leaders
for such organizations who are politi-
cally reliable and who have the energy,
ability and interest necessary to do the
job well. In Stuttgart, representatives
of the Evangelical and Catholic Chur-
ches, Social Democrats and Young Peop-
les Sport Organization, have been
cooperating with officers of the 100th
Infantry Division to establish a. youth
leisure-time program.

--- Page 29 ---
P ress Comments

EISENHOWER

DECLARATION PRAISED . .

THE declaration of General Eisen-
hower that the denazification provisions
of the Potsdam Agreement will be car-
ried out was received with general
approval. by the press during the week,
as commentators warned that German
propaganda, exercised on the occupation
forces, was creating a trend toward
a soft” peace. Military Government
came under: fire from several quarters,
and the speed of redeployment, with
resulting manpower shortage, and the
desire of personnel to return home
were viewed as factors undermining the

efficiency of Military Government
operations. .
”’General Eisenhower has done a

great deal to clear the atmosphere by
his forthright declaration that the Pots-
dam Agreement for the complete de-
nazification of Germany will be carried
out in detail,” declared the Philidelphia
Inquirer. "A complete house cleaning in
Germany to end its menace for all time
must be made, even if it requires the 50
years the American commander thinks
will be necessary to re-educate the Ger-
man people to peaceful ways.”

In another typical comment, the Wil-
mington Journal said that in spite of
the criticism "which a small but ex-
tremely vocal minority has levelled at
General Eisenhower, the great body of
the American people are satisfied that

he knows what he is doing in Ger-
many... Moreover the idea that
General Eisenhower is not genuinely

interested in destroying forever Ger-
many’s ability to make war is too ab-
surd to be entertained by any in-
telligent person. It is about time for

26

. . « But Commentators Suggest. That
Occupation Forces Are Falling for Ger-
man "’Soft’’ Peace Propaganda.

Americans to permit General . Eisen:
hower, as well as General MacArthur,
to perform their tasks without inter-
ference on the part of those who have
only a remote understanding of its
difficulties.”

Release of the original directive for
the occupation of Germany, long
awaited by the American press, provided
the topics for several editorials. ’The
directive shows that General Eisenhower
has been proceeding strictly according
to orders, and that many of the criti-
cisms made of the American Military
Government in Germany are unjusti-
fied,’ said The New York Times.
Publication of the directive, according
to the New York Herald Tribune, dis-
closes that the present policy is only a
beginning and ”that many of the most
acute practical problems now facing us
in Germany are without answer, and that,
despite the detail of the directive, we
still need a German policy far wider in
scope and more subtle in its co-ordina-
tion than any we now seem to possess.”

The Manchester Union in an editorial
on October 12, warned that there is a
current tendency to "soften the Ameri-
can occupation of Germany,” while
Cecil Brown, in a broadcast over MBS
a few days later, sharply assailed what
he described as "the campaign of pity
which is getting started in Germany.”
Other commentators, in pointed cri-
ticism of the occupation forces, charged
that their personnel was increasingly
falling for the German propaganda line,
fed to them by German frauleins.

--- Page 30 ---
*Scores of thousands of American
soldiers are swallowing avidly the
Goebbels-Fascist propaganda bait  be-
tween the caresses and flattery of their
temporary German girl friends,”
charged Leland Stowe in the New York
Post..”These women fan hatred and
belittling of our Allies...They are the
most effective agents of Fascism ever
trained — and they work hardest where
man has always been weakest.”

Military Government personnel came
under fire in a recent New York Times
Magazine article, entitled "We Talk
Tough, But We Act Soft,” written by
Raymond Daniell. *Most Military Gov-
ernment officials, like most GI’s, want,
above everything else, to go home,” the
article stated. ’They have little interest
in their jobs from the long-term view,
and consequently their approach is
negative. Their main purpose seems to
be to avoid trouble — trouble with the
Germans — and they have reached the
conclusion that the less they do of a
daring nature, the less likely they are
to’come into conflict with their imme-
diate superiors — But the worst of it
is that those who remain seem to be
falling more and more for the German
line, mouthing, as though they were
their own thoughts, the excuse of the
German apologists for all that hap-
pened.”

In. a news dispatch to The Times,
Daniell stated that the recent announce-
ment of the change in operational
policy under which the Germans: would
be made responsible for local govern-
ment ”was couched in language desig-
ned to indicate that the denazification
and re-education programs had. pro-
gressed to such a point” that the ad-
ministration of local echelons of gov-
ernment could be safely turned over to
Germans. ’’As a matter of fact, nothing
could be further from the _ truth,”
Daniell asserted. "Nazism, racism and
all the evils that war fought to eradicate

still exist and are.warp and woof of the
average German’s philosophy, and thus
far our elaborate system of information
and control has done little or nothing
to correct it. The fact is that we are
terribly short of manpower to do the
job we have undertaken to tackle. We
cannot continue to manage German
affairs and still send men home at the
rate Congress insists on sending them,
without replacements. And so we are
getting out of the business of occu-
pation on the operational level and
asserting that, nevertheless, we are
directing affairs by remote control — a
very difficult business with Germans.”

War Criminals

AMERICAN editorial. opinion wel-
comed the anouncement of the opening
of the Niirnberg trials as the dawn of a
new era in ”mankind’s eternal striving
for peace and decency and human dig-
nity.” Many commentators stressed that
the chief credit should go to Justice
Jackson for the basic concépt of the
trials, and for his energy in pushing it
through.

The St. Louis Post-Dispatch expressed
the view that it was incredible — that
members of the German General Staff
were not on the list of war criminals.
“If our Allies remain-unconvinced, Mr.
Jackson should be backed up in urging
American trials for German . General
Staff members,” the Post-Dispatch said.
Better a bullet for a General Staff offi-
cer today than for our sons and grand-
sons in 25 years.”

According to the Philadelphia In-
quirer, the Allies are not repeating. the
mistake of 1920, since the criminals
will be tried by a four-power and not
a German court.” It is not retaliation
that is sought,” the Inquirer said. ”But
punishment for the commission’ of
horrible crimes is demanded, and more
than that: justice. for the war guilty that

--- Page 31 ---
will serve as a lesson for all time to
those who seek to chain thé bodies and
souls of free men.”

As Raymond Swing of NBC sees it,
the trial will make history ”in that it is
a procedure of Allied nations acting
in concert against individuals and that
is a departure from old habits that have
grown up around the idea of sover-
eignty.”

Defense of France

THE MOVES of the French re-
presentatives to block joint action on
the economic problems of Germany as
a whole found a defender in the New
York Herald Tribune. "French fears
that the failure to deal with western
Germany in the same prompt fashion
that was used in the east may leave
France strategically weak are not
wholly illusory,” the Herald Tribune
said. ’The action of the French Govern-
ment in vetoing any further actions by
the joint allied control, looking toward
a general attack on the political and
economic problems of Germany as a
whole, is doubtless regarded by the
French ‘as the only diplomatic weapon
at their command since the framework
for the allied occupation of Germany
was constructed without French parti-
cipation. The practical effect of these
tactics may be questioned. They may
merely succeed in providing another
excuse for the prolonged inability of
the Allies to fix clear and workable
policies in respect to the German
situation, leaving France to bear the
onus for the common failure. But the
essential righteousness of her demands
hardly seems open to question.”

Moscow Comments

RECENT Soviet broadcasts have
sharply assailed proposals for the crea-
tion of a "western bloc.” ”This

28

western bloc has’ been made the basis

of all the reactionary schemes designed

to frustrate a single coordinated Great
Power policy and the idea has been
seized upon eagerly by all who would
like to cause trouble among the demo-
cratic powers,” said Mikailov, in: an
English transmission from Moscow.

Soviet home broadcasts have given
prominence to news items bearing upon
the connection between American and
German industry. Allegations that
creators of anti-Soviet propaganda in
various countries have as their objective
the disruption of Allied unity have also
continued to feature Soviet broadcasts
for foreign listeners. ,

Random Comments

THE professional prophets of doom
were convinced that nothing but sorrow
and surliness could come of the pro-
posal to divide Berlin into four separate
occupation zones and then try to gov-
ern the German capital by committees.
The same dismal prophecy was made
when three powers met more or less
head-on and undertook the restoration
of political order in Vienna. On both
these critical testing grounds, the ex-
pectations of the pessimists were dis-
appointed. Insead of involving them-
selves at once in irreconcilable differ-
ences, the Allies at those two major
points of contact soon learned the other
members of the partnership were
fairly human, after all.” — John Vander-
cook in a NBC broadcast.

* *

*Munich has now been chosen as the
birthplace of the new Germany under
what might be called ‘planned parent-
hood.’ The American Military Govern-
ment will radiate from that battered
and deflated city. A half hour’s con-
versation with any of the American
military governors who are now, in

--- Page 32 ---
practice, the real military dictators of
the American controlled zone, reveals
that though their concepts of method
differ, they all very nearly agree on the
final objective which their local efforts
must achieve.” — Philip Whitcomb in
The Baltimore Sun.
* *®

"Let those who are advocating in-
creased food supplies to Germany and
appealing to the humanitarian feeling
of the world and the instincts of gener-
osity toward conquered enemies, please
remember that the winter prospects of
Holland, Yugoslavia, Poland, and
Western USSR are without doubt yet
grimmer than those of Germany.” —
Ivor Montague in The. London Daily
Worker.

* *

"The evil that was done by the en-
forced migration of millions of Ger-
mans from Poland and Czechoslovakia
cannot be undone, but quick and drastic
measures will be necessary if its con-
sequences in starvation, demoralization
and spreading disease are to stop short
of a European disaster.” — The London
Spectator.

* *

”We have in this country the usual
number of Johnny-jump-up critics who,
having shrilled all through the war,
want the problems of peace and occupa-
tion settled in a few days. They have
been very vocal about our alleged soft
treatment of the nazis in Germany. Now
comes General Eisenhower to say that
charges we are dallying with the nazis
are stupid and crazy... He thinks
it will take 50 years to rid the German
people of the spirit of nazism. General
Lucius Clay thinks we must occupy
Germany for generation if we are
really to remake it. All this poses :a
problem which this country probably
will treat impatiently, to the future

detriment of the nation and generations
yet to come. Which would be cheaper,
Occupational supervision for 40 years,
or another war in 40 years?” —
Editorial in The Atlanta Constitution.

* *

”’This war has been fought against
certain definite evils represented by the
nazi regime, which the United Nations
felt to be incompatible with the civiliza-
tion to which they aspired. These evils
are no more compatible with our
civilization when practiced in a spirit of
revenge by Poles and Czechs than they
were when practiced in a spirit of ag-
gression by Germans against Poles and
Czechs.” — The London Observer.

* *

"Whether or not General Eisen-
hower’s explanation will satisfy every-
body, it is unfortunate that the Harri-
son Report was released before an ade-
quate reply could be made to it. The
explanations may well escape the atten-
tion of many who drew their con-
clusions as to our treatment of displaced
persons, and in particular Jews, on the
basis of the Harrison Report, and the
President’s letter alone. This matter was
ineptly handled.” — Editorial in The
Baltimore Sun.

* *

”*However regrettable any unfairness
to General Eisenhower himself that may
have been said in the American press,
the close scrutiny that is being given
to both American political and econo-
mic policy in Germany, and the questions
that are being asked about it, are
wholesome and constructive: They are
getting results. And if there are certain
powerful interests in Britain and- the
United States that are trying to water
down the Potsdam terms, they should
be hunted down and _ exposed.” —
Editorial in The St. Louis Post Dispatch.

a

29

--- Page 33 ---
Station List

Military Government Elements

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR

UNIT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER

UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER
Office of
Mil Govt for
Germany (U.S.) Berlin
Office of
Mil Govt (U.S. Zone) Frankfurt

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay

Maj Gen C L Adcock

WESTERN MILITARY DISTRICT

Seventh U.S. Army
Office of
Mil Govt
(Western
District)

Western District Col M O Edwards

2d Mil Govt Regiment

Hq 2d Mil Govt Regt Bad Homburg
Hq Co Bad Homburg

Heidelberg

Lt Col N F Hines
Ist Lt A W Huck

Sv Co

Ober Ursel

1st Maint Plat Zuffenhausen
2d Maint. Plat Wetzlar
R&T Co Bad Homburg

Ist Lt R. A. Madden
Ist Lt E Thompson
Capt B A Sturdevan
Capt T Candon

2d MG Med Det Heidelberg
RR Det (Liaison) Bad Orb

Lt Col W H Riheldaffer
Capt F Gladzik

‘LAND WURTTEMBERG & NORTH BADEN.

E-1 Stuttgart Land Wirttemberg
& North Baden Col W W_ Dawson

Wiirttemberg Section

CoA Stuttgart Capt O Martin
E-1 Stuttgart Wiirttemberg Section Col W W Dawson
F-10 Stuttgart SK Stuttgart Lt Col C L Jackson
F-11 Ulm SK-LK Ulm Lt Col H M Coverly
G-20 Aalen LK Aalen Maj J K Owen
G-21 Boblingen LK Boblingen Capt W A Becker
G-22 Crailsheim LK Crailsheim _, Lt Col R.L Rogers
G-23 Esslingen LK Esslingen Maj J 1 Taytor
G-24 Gmiind LK Gmiind Capt E T Casey
G-25 Géppingen LK Géppingen Maj S R_ Marsh
G-26 Schwabisch Hall LK Hall Maj W T Neel
G-27 Heidenheim LK Heidenheim Capt F R Edwards
G-28 Heilbronn . LK Heilbronn Maj H M Montgomery
G-29 Ludwigsburg LK Ludwigsburg Maj J. Lindsey
G-30 Waiblingen LK Waiblingen Capt H W Freeman
H-50 Backnang LK Backnang Capt G D Burchell
H-51 Heilbronn SK Heilbronn Maj M L Hoover
H-52 Kiinzelsau LK Kiinzelsau Ist Lt H. B. Henry
H-53) Leonberg LK Leonberg Capt R S Doetz
H-54 Bad Mergentheim LK Mergentheim Capt S L Haber
H-55 Nirtingen LK Nortingen Capt S A Warren
H-56 Ohringen LK Ohringen 1st Lt-M. Korson
H-57 Ulm Warehouse Opn Maj J M Gregory
H-58 Vaihingen LK Vaihingen Capt J G Cox
North Baden Section
CoE Durlach Ist Lt R T Lynch
E-7 Karlsruhe North ‘Baden Section Col C Lisle
F-16 Mannheim SK Mannheim Lt Col R S Smith
G-42 Weinheim LK Mannheim Maj B C Barnes
G-43 Heidelberg SK Heidelberg -Maj G P. Kratz
G-44 Heidelberg LK Heidelberg Capt H D Peterson
G-45 Ettlingen LK Kar!sruhe Capt J W Green
G-46 Pforzheim SK Pforzheim Maj R B Little

30

--- Page 34 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR

COMMANDING OFFICER

G-47 Karlsruhe
H-87 Bruchsal
H-88 Foudenheim
H-89 Buchen
H-90 Mosbach
H-91 Tauberbischofsheim
H-92 Sinsheim
1-137 Edingen
1-154 Pforzheim

LAND GREAT HESSE
E-5 Wiesbaden

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

Co D Weilburg
E-5 Wiesbaden
E-6 Frankfurt
F-15 Wiesbaden
G-41 Wetzlar
H-77 Dillenburg
H-78 Gelnhausen
H-79 Hanau
H-80 Limburg
H-81 Hofheim
H-83 Riidesheim
H-86 Bad Homburg

Regierungsbezirk Kassel

Co C Kirchain
E-4 Kassel

F-14 Kassel

G-38 Fritzlar
G-39 Marburg
Fulda
Korbach
Eschwege
Hersfeld
Hofgeismar
Hinfeld
Melsungen
Rotenburg
Kassel
Witzenhausen

Pare
r=)

NIUUGSA

TITIIITTAO

SV =sBsVQRE

Regierungsbezirk Hessen

Co B Darmstadt
E-3 Darmstadt
F-12 Darmstadt
F-13 Offenbach
G-31 Bensheim
G-32 Bidingen
G-33 Dieburg
G-34 Friedberg
G-35 Giessen
G-36 Gross Gerau
H-59 Alsfeld
H-60 Erbach
H-62 Lauterbach

SK Karlsruhe

LK Bruchsal
Warehouse Opn
LK Buchen

LK Mosbach
Tauberbischofsheim
LK Sinsheim
Warehouse Opn
LK Pforzheim

Land Great Hesse

RB Wiesbaden

SK Frankfurt

SK Wiesbaden

LK Wetzlar

LK Dillkreis &

LK Biedenkopf

LK Geinhausen &
LK Schliichtern
SK-LK Hanau

LK Limburg &

LK Oberlahnkreis
LK Maintaunuskreis
LK Rheingaukreis &
LK Untertaunuskreis
LK Obertaunuskreis &
LK Usingen

RB Kassel

SK-LK Kassel

LK Fritzlar-Homberg
SK LK Marburg
SK-LK Fulda

LK Waldeck

LK Eschwege

LK Hersfeld

LK Hofgeismar
LK Hiinfeld

LK Melsungen
LK Rotenburg
Warehouse Opn
LK Witzenhausen

RB Hessen

SK Darmstadt
SK Offenbach
LK Bergstrasse
LK Biidingen

LK Dieburg

LK Friedberg
SK Giessen

LK Gross Gerau
LK Alsfeld

LK Erbach

LK Lauterbach ..

31

Maj M S Pullen

Capt A F Thompson
Maj H.-E Kring
Capt J A McGuinness
Maj N O Moore

Capt J F Moyer
Capt G O Withey
Capt R L Shadwick
Ist Lt J R Bolin

Col J R Newman

Capt J L Savannah
Col J R Newman
Lt Col R K Phelps
Maj F A Sansome
Lt Col E M Lee

Maj D B Bernstein

Maj M E Chotas
Maj T Turner Jr

Capt E F Duffy
Capt F S Percy Jr

Maj J G Gavin
Capt M M Campbell

Ist Lt J F Owen

Lt Col A Skarry
Maj R Bard

Maj R A Gish

Lt Col T A Brown
Capt E J Dikeman
Maj J R Chambliss
Capt A W Moore
Capt G S Iredell

Ist Lt S B Borda
Capt H H Liebhafsky
Capt T T Turnbull Jr
Ist Lt P J Zeller
Capt J R Newell
Capt W E. Getman

lst Lt AL Husted, Jr (actg)
Lt Col W T Burt (actg)
Lt Col L G Kelly

Maj C G Martins (actg)
Capt A C Leggatt
Capt L S LaPrade

Maj E T Cusiek

Maj R_ J Willard

Capt J S. Chapin

Capt R L Patten

Capt W P Burkes
Capt L A Claff

Capt H Nickelsberg

--- Page 35 ---
UNIT

LOCATION

Bremen Sub-District

E2C2 Bremen

G1C2 Wesermiinde

H4C2 Osterholz-Scharmbeck
110C2 Loxstedt

T11C2 Brake

12C2 Nordenham

Office of

Mil Govt for

Bavaria Munich

Hq 3d Mil Govt Regt Augsburg
Hq Co Augsburg

Sv Co Augsburg

Ist Maint Plat Augsburg

2d Maint Plat Uttenreuth

3d Maint Plat Straubing
R&TCo Augsburg
3d MG Med Det Munich

3d MG Med Sec Augsburg

LAND BAYERN

Office of | Munich
Mil Govt
for Bavaria

Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Bremen Sub-District
SK Bremerhaven

LK Osterholz

LK Wesermiinde

LK Wesermarsch

GM Nordenham

EASTERN MILITARY DISTRICT
Third U.S. Army

Eastern District

3d Mil Govt Regt

Land Bayern

RB Mainfranken
SK-LK Wirzburg
SK-LK Aschaffenburg
SK-LK Schweinfurt
LK Kissingen

LK Kitzingen

LK Alzenau

LK Briickenau

LK Ebern

LK Gemiinden

LK Gerolzhofen

LK Hammelburg
LK Hassfurt

LK Hofheim

LK Karlstadt

LK K6nigshofen

LK Lohr

LK Marktheidenfeld
LK Mellrichstadt
LK Miltenberg

LK Neustadt a. d. Salle
LK Obernburg

LK Ochsenfurt

RB Ober & Mittelfranken
SK-LK Nurnberg

SK-LK Ansbach

SK-LK Firth

LK Dinkelsbiih!

LK Eichstadt

LK Feuchtwangen

LK Gunzenhausen

LK Hersbruck

CoA Ochsenfurt
E-202 Wirzburg
F-210 Wiirzburg
G-220 Aschaffenburg
G-221 Schweinfurt
H-250 Bad Kissingen
H-251 Kitzingen
1-330 Alzenau
1-331 Briickenau
1-332 Ebern
1-333 Gemiinden
1-334 Gerolzhofen
1-335 Hammelburg
1-336 Hassfurt
1-337 Hofheim
1-338 Karlstadt
1-339 Konigshofen.
1-340 Lohr
1-341 Marktheidenfeld
1-342 Mellrichstadt
1-343 Miltenberg
1-344 Neustadt Salle
1-345 Obernburg
1-346 Ochsenfurt
Regierungsbezirk Ober & Mittelfranken
Co C Ansbach
E-203 Ansbach
F-211 Nirnberg
G-228 Ansbach
G-229 Firth
H-261 Dinkelsbiih!
H-262 Eichstadt
H-263 Feuchtwangen
H-264 Gunzenhausén
H-265 Hersbruck
H-266 Hilpoltstein

LK Hilpoltstein
32

Lt Col B C Welker
Lt Col L S Diggs
Lt Col J R Reed
Capt J F Flynn
Capt M L Krauss
Capt G R Zeek

Brig Gen W. J. Muller

Col G. D. Grawford
Ist Lt Wm Irwin
Capt J O'Malley
Capt J O'Malley
Ist Lt C Casper
Ist Lt C. T. Enbody
Ist Lt T J May
Lt Col C Shields
Capt H S Price

Brig Gen W. J. Muller

lst Lt H A Lenert
Lt Col M E Henderson
Maj J B Bradford
Maj C M Emerick
Maj A S Grove
Capt M A Potter
Capt J B Lynn

Maj E E Shovea
Capt H B Clark Jr
Capt S L Tulin

Capt K N Galloway
Capt W J Tonkin
Capt E H Emery
Capt T F Griffen
Capt W Hitt

Ist Lt W E Brayden
Capt A W Peterson
Capt Elmer E Kelly
Capt M B Voorhees
Capt J. J. Schaller (actg)
Capt D J Huffman
Ist Lt_E F Warnke
Capt B H Logan
Capt H A Storm

Ist Lt G N Hultzen
Col E M Haight
Col C H_ Andrews
Maj W R Whitaker
Capt J D Cofer
Maj J. W. Hall

Maj W T Staats
Capt C E Wilhelm
Maj H W Zurn
Maj F M Dunbaugh
Maj H T: Lund

--- Page 36 ---
OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR
UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER

H-267 Weissenburg LK Weissenburg Maj W S Bailey
H-268 Rothenburg LK Rothenburg Maj R C Anderson
H-269 Schwalbach LK Schwalbach Maj R H Stringer
H-270 Scheinfeld LK Scheinfeld Maj H C Kauffmann
H-271 Windsheim LK Uffenheim Capt M C Baer
H-272 Lauf LK Lauf Capt E N Humphrey
H-273 Neustadt a. d. Aisch LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch Maj F K Hinchey
Co B Bamberg Capt W H Cox
G-222 Bamberg SK-LK Bamberg Maj J A Watkins
G-223 Bayreuth SK-LK Bayreuth Lt Col C J Reilly
G-224 , Erlangen LK Erlangen Lt Col H Hargrave
G-225 Coburg SK-LK Coburg Maj H Lockland
G-226 Kronach LK Kronach Maj H I Woodall
G-227 Hof SK-LK Hof Maj A R Giroux
G-247 Lichtenfels LK Lichtenfels Maj J R Case
H-252 Ebermannstadt LK Ebermannstadt Ist Lt_J J Bianchi
H-253 Hochstadt LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch Capt R G Hanford
H-254 Kulmbach LK Kulmbach Maj P B Lamson
H-255 Pegnitz LK Pegnitz Maj M F Skinner
H-256 Munchberg LK Minchberg Maj A C Abbott
H-258 Rehau LK Rehau Capt R H Dodds
H-259 Wunseidel LK Winseidel Capt D H Alexander
H 260 Forcheim LK Forcheim Lt Col F Robie
1-347 Naila LK Naila Capt H W Newell
1-348 Stadtsteinach LK Stadtsteinach Ist Lt H F Casademont

Regierungbezirk Niederbayern & Oberpfalz

Co D
E-204
F-212
G-230
H-274

G-244
H-275
H-276
H-277
H-278
H-279
1-349
1-350
1-351
1-352
1-353
1-354
1-355
1-356
1-357
1-358
1-379
Co H
G-243
G-245
G-246
H-301
H-302
H-303
H-304
H-305
H-306
H-307
H-308
H-309
H-310
1-375
1-377
1-378

Regensburg
Regensburg
Regensburg
Weiden
Amberg

Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunburg
Eschenbach
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldmiinchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
K6tzting
Regensburg
Passau
Landshut
Straubing
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsiburg
Freyung
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach

RB Niederbayern & Oberpfalz

SK-LK Regensburg
SK Weiden &

LK Neustadt a. d. Wald

SK-LK Amberg

LK Cham

LK Burglengenfeld
LK Parsberg

LK Tirschenreuth

LK Neunburg vorm Wald
LK Eschenbach i. d. Opf.

LK Kemnath

LK Nabburg

LK Oberviechtach
LK Riedenberg
LK Vohenstrauss
LK Roding

LK Waldmiinchen
LK Beilngries

LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg

LK K6tzting

SK-LK Passau
SK-LK Landshut
SK-LK Straubing
LK Deggendorf
LK Eggenfelden
LK Grafenau

LK Kelheim

LK Landau a. d. Isar
LK Pfarrkirchen
LK Regen

LK Vilshofen

LK Vilsiburg

LK Wolfstein

LK Bogen

LK Dingolfing °
LK Griesbach

33

Capt V A Grasso
Lt Col Hasting
Lt Col S S Speaks

Capt R A Rosan
Maj Mattox

Maj C E McDaniel
Capt E. Fichter
Maj H J Mrachek
Capt F P Murray
Maj J J Egan
Capt W R Baylies
Capt W G Montpas
Capt G Doyle
Capt R A Berry
Capt.C V Hansen

Ist Lt C. A. Harrington

Capt C R Bucheit
Capt J E Hudson
Capt J J Mallon
Ist Lt_ W N Blanton
Capt S. E. Prail
Capt E L Davis, Jr.
Ist Lt C G Savelli
Lt Col F W Hanger
Capt A J Wann

Maj H T Olsen

Capt L C Smallenberger

Capt E W Manning
Capt H § Rick
Capt O DeBogdan
Maj R M Stribling
Capt W D Baird
Capt A R Sphar

Capt W. J. Fitzpatrick

Capt J W Fleshman
Capt R W Douglass
Capt A G Albert
Capt B E Reichhardt
Capt A S Gallant

--- Page 37 ---
OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

34

UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER
1-379 Kétzting LK Kdtzting Capt E. L. Davis, Jr.
1-380 Mainburg LK Mainburg Capt W Wickersham
1-381 Mallersdorf LK Mallersdorf Capt S R Jacobs
1-382 Rottenburg LK Rottenburg Capt E A Russo
1-383 Viechtach LK Viechtach Capt J F Vaile
1-385 Wegscheid LK Wegscheid Capt H Walter

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern
Co F Munich Ist Lt J MacDonough
E-205 Munich RB Oberbayern Lt Col J W Hensel
F-213 Munich SK-LS Munich Lt Col E Keller Jr
G-236 Partenkirchen LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen Maj C HHeyl (actg)
G-237 Ingolstadt SK-LK Ingolstadt Capt L H Norins
G-238 Munich LK Munich Maj M T Mawrence
H-286 Firstenfeldbruck LK Fiirstenfeldbriick Capt J J McBride
H-287 Landsberg LK Landsberg Capt C A Rein
H-288 Pfaffenhofen LK Pfaffenhofen Maj C A.Sloat

H-289 Starnberg LK Starnberg Capt M Shellenberger
H-290 Weilheim LK Weilheim Maj E C Wills
H-291 Wolfratshausen LK Wolfratshausen Capt C H Bischoff
1-362 Aichach LK Aichach Capt L. R. Day
1-364 Schrobenhausen LK Schrobenhausen Capt R G Hill Jr
1-365 Munich Bavarian Supply Capt F S Franke
1-367 Dachau LK Dachau Ist Lt V A Burke
1-368 Schéngau LK Schéngau Capt C E Carlsen
CoE Wasserburg Capt J T Collier
G-231 Freising LK Freising Maj A G Snow
G-232 Miesbach LK Miesbach Maj L L Haupt
G-233 Traunstein LK Traunstein Capt F L Tracy
G-234 Altotting LK Altotting Capt R L Montague
G-235 Rosenheim SK-LK Rosenheim Maj R G MacDonald
\ H-280 Erding LK Erding Capt H J Bierman
H-281 Laufen LK Laufen Capt S L Jones Jr
H-282 Mihldorf LK Mihldorf Maj C E Vickerman
H-283 Wasserburg LK Wasserburg Capt M J Groves
H-284 Bad Tolz LK Tolz Maj J Letteriello «
H-285 Aibling LK Aibling Maj E J Newmeyer
H-311 Berchtesgaden LK Berchtersgaden Maj M E DiPietro
1-361 Ebersberg LK Ebersberg Capt G E Horwath

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben
CoG Ziemetshausen Ist Lt O Meirhenry
E-206 Augsburg RB Schwaben Lt Col R-L Hiles

F-214 Augsburg SK-LK Augsburg Lt Col R A Norton
G-239 Dillingen LK Dillingen Maj C F Baker
G-240 Weissenhorn LK Neu Ulm Maj J A Blakemore
G-241 Sonthofen LK Sonthofen Maj A B Ebbers
G-242 Kempten SK-LK Kempten lst Lt B M Ziegler
H-292 Donauworth LK Donauwérth Maj H L Snapp
H-293 Ginzberg LK Ginzberg Capt J G Horrell
H-294 Markt Oberdorf LK Mart Oberdorf Capt J O Renalds
H-295 Memmingen LK Memmingen Maj R F Wagner
H-296 Mindelheim LK Mindelheim Maj E C Bunker
H-297 Neuberg LK Neuberg a. d. Donau Capt W H Oswalt
H-298 Nordlingen LK Nordlingen Capt S H Brown
H-299 Fiissen LK Fiissen Capt T R Schweer
H-300 Krumbach LK Krumbach lst Lt L. E. Dunn
1-369 Illertissen LK Illertissen Maj W S Reed
1-370 Kaufbeuren LK Kaufbeuren Maj E M Ross
1-372 Wertingen LK Wertingen Capt R E Hale
1-373 -Friedberg LK Friedberg Maj P S Webb
1-374 Schwabmiinchen LK Schwabmiinchen Ist Lt L E Smith

--- Page 38 ---
OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR
UNIT LOCATION __MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER

U.S. MILITARY DISTRICT — BERLIN

Office of
Mil Govt

(U.S. Sector
Berlin) Berlin U.S. Berlin District Col F L Howley

Detachments Disbanded:
2d Mil Govt Regt:
Co C: H-66, H-74, 1-144, 1-161.
3d Mil Govt Regt:
Co H: 1-376
Redesignation of Detachments:
3d Mil Govt Regt:
Old New Location Area of
Designation Designation Operation Operation

G-244 H-274 Cham LK Cham
LK KOtzting
H-274 G-244 Amberg SK-LK Amberg

Note: E-201 integrated with Office of Mil
Govt for Bavaria, but not disbanded.

35

--- Page 39 ---
