--- Page 2 ---
No. 12 — 18 OCTOBER 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
NaN

—— BRITISH ZONE =

~—

E2c2

BREMEN ENCLAVE RUSSIAN ZONE

CZECHO- =
SLOVAKIA=

¢€

WEIDEN,

AMBERG

'SCHWANDORF

— MAIN ROUTES IST 8 2ND CL
<= DISTRICT ROAD IST CLASS

AUSTRIA

———SQURCE: G-5, USFET STATISTICS SECTION =

x
n~
> SEC GEN STAFF USFET-
—

--- Page 4 ---
No. 12— 13 OCTOBER 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
CONTENTS
PAGE
Military Government Letters and dnstructions. Issued! this: Week: . 4

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY. ...

Denazification of German Business .

Many Will Survive, But ae tanh ns 14
GENERAL... .. 2.0... 000 ee. 14
Integration, in. Military Government’. 6 0.0. 6 80  44
The Minister President of Bavaria... 0... eee i 15
Barter Board Authorized’ 00. i 1G
Green ,Light For Interzonal Traffic... 2. ++ + 16
No Barley for Beer. 6.) ee ee ee ee 16
Enemy War Material . . . . . 1 1 1) es es 16
In Brief. 2. we 16
GERMAN REACTIONS ......... . . 18
Churches Play Politics. . . 1. 2. 2 1 ee ee we 18
Letters from Germans... ...... 19
Nazi Purge: Menfal Side . . 2... 5... 20
Is Hitler Still Alive? 2. 2. 2. 2. 2. 2 2... ee 20
VOICES OF EXPERIENCE ........ + 22
PRESS COMMENTS .......... 4... 23
Occupation Problems in Spotlight . . . . . . . « 23
Montgomery Report . . . . 1. 1 1 ee wee 24
Innocents Abroad . . . 7 1 1 wee ee ee 25
Army Cuts Criticized . 2 2 1 1 1. ee ee wt 25
Allied Proclamation . 2 2 1 1. 1 ee ee ee 25
Random Comments . . . .°. . . . se + + et 26
PERSONAL DATA ....... 2... 4 4 4s 28
Station List 2 6 2 we ee we 80

--- Page 7 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT LETTERS AND
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED DURING THE WEEK

Amendments to’ the Directive to Commanding Generals, Military
Districts, Dated 7 July, 1945, Subject: Administration of Military
Government in the U. S. Zone of Germany . . . .. . 1 October 1945

To Section V (Administration of Justice), providing for controls over
German legislation.

To Section Vill (Police and Fire Services), clarifying the point that
the prohibition against police chiefs’ enacting legislation does not

preclude legislation by Oberbiirgermeister or Landrat.

To Section XXIV (Military Government Legislation), Proclamation
No. 2 to the German People, establishing Great Hessen and
Wirttemberg-Baden as States.

To Section IV (Civil Service and Administration).

Defining U. S. policies on employment of Nazis and providing

(in Military Government Law No. 8 and Regulation No. 1 to the

law) additional implementation. . . . . . . . . . . . 6 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

Organization of the Department of Communications and Posts,

U.S. Zone,Germany . . . 1 2 1 1 2 1... ee. -29September 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

Amendmentto above... ..... =. =... 4. . « 3 October 1945

(file same as above)

Interzonal Trade 7 2. 1 ww we ee es «4 October 1945 (file
AG 091.3 GEC-AGO)

Administration of Justice. . . 2 2 2 7 1 ww... 64 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

--- Page 8 ---
Highlights of : Policy

Military Government Law No. 8

With the issuance of Military Govern-
ment Law No. 8 on 26 September, the
denazification program in the U.S.
Zone has taken a forward step. The new
attion accomplishes no material change
in objectives with respect to the type
of person removable or the type of job
from which he is to be removed. Law
No. 8 and the Regulations issued under
it do, however, together state more
clearly then has previously been the case
the sort of ‘employment in business to
be denied the German who has actively
engaged in the activities of the nazi
party or its affiliate organizations.

DIRECTED AT INDUSTRY

The new and striking fact is that
every member of the party or an
affiliate organization must on pain of
trial and punishment be discharged from
a-position in business until such time
as he establishes that he was not actively
engaged in nazi activities. However
slight the apparent extent of nazi party
participation, a member’s continued
employment except in. ordinary labor
is unlawful. He must .be removed ‘or
transferred to ordinary work. until he
has shown on appeal that he .was not
actively engaged, and the burden of that
showing rests squarely on him, Until now
measures for the. denazification of in-
dustry, as with other aspects of German

~Denazification’ of German...

Business —

public and private activity, have. been
taken by: Military Government: itself. In
the phase which now begins, respon-
sibility for the’ cleansing of German
economic life is placed: on the Germans
themselves.

Notwithstanding differences'in termin-
ology and to some extent in application
between the ‘new Law and the. 7 July
directive, it: must be understood very
clearly that a person listed in one of the
mandatory-removal categories of the
directive remains subject to‘ removal
from “public office and positions of
importance in quasi-public and’ private
enterprises,” whether or not within the
terms of Law No. 8. The new Law was
not intended to limit in any way,:.and
does not limit: in. any way; the :appli-
cation of ‘the directive of 7: July or the
directive of 15 August, or the obligation
of Military Government officers for the
strict enforcement of both.

LAW NO. 8 SUPERSEDES ©

‘In the case, however, where removal is
required not only by Law No. 8. but. by
‘either or both of the -Diréctives: of 7
July and 15 August, Law No. 8° will
control. Thus whether the: removal .,.of
the member is mandatory under,the 7
July Directive ‘or. discretionary under
that directive or the 15 August Directive,
he must be removed at once to preclude
application, of the. penal : provisions of

--- Page 9 ---
Law -No.,. 8, and the responsibility of
establishing the absence of active parti-
eipation: is: upon: him. If the persons re-
movable from business positions pursuant
to the 7 July or 15 August directives
were not members of the party or an
affiliate organisation and Law No. 8 is
accordingly inapplicable, the procedure
provided by Section II will remain un-
changed. The property of persons re-
moved by operation of Law No. 8 is sub-
ject to! the ‘blocking and 6ther . pro-
visions: of ‘Law: No. 52, and the other
financial ‘restrictions described ‘in' the
Directive of 15 August 1945 are appli-
cable to them.

The: policy is expressed in the first
section! of, Law No.. 8: members. of: the
national-socialist party and its affiliate
organizations are not to be employed
in any -business ‘position in which. they
would. be able to exercise influence;
their employment is limited to ordinary
labor;.employment in any other capacity
is unlawful, Liability to punishment is
nol limited to the employer. It extends
also to: the employee who continues in,
or.aceepts,. forbidden employment, : as
well. as.to any other person who in. any
way participates in any violation of the
prohibition..of employment. Violations
are punishable. by criminal prosecution
and by closing down the offending
enterprise.

DEFINITIONS

The broad terms of the Law are. de-
fined. in detail ‘in Regulation No.1.
“Ordinary labor,” the only type of
employment left open.:for ‘nazis, is .de-
fined'to 'mean "work or service, whether
skilled, unskilled’ or clerical, in an in-
ferior position; in which’.the worker
does’ not! act in’ any supervisory, mana-
gerial ‘or organizing: ‘capacity what-
soever, or ‘participate in hiring or: dis-

“ordinary labor”

charging others, or in setting employ-
ment or other policies.” Thus the term
is not equivalent to:
menial or manual or wage labor..A nazi
may still be employed as an office wor- ..
ker, a glass grinder, or even an ‘en-
gineer. He may not be a director; a:
manager, a floor walker, a bell boy
captain or a foreman. He may be the
sole bookkeeper or factory physician of
an entire enterprise or a member of the
bookkeeping department or the medical
staff, but he may not be the chief of
such a department or staff.

The decisive tests under Law No. 8
are whether or not his job involves giv-
ing orders to other employees and
whether or not he has any influence
upon the policies. of the enterprise. If
the position carries such power or in-
fluence, it is closed to nazis; if it does
not, it, is considered ordinary labor
suitable, for nazis. The purpose of this
Law is not.to deprive nazis of a liveli-
hood or to make it impossible for a
nazi to exercise a useful skill, but to
render it impossible for nazis to exer-
cise influence through economic position
and to dominate others. through econo-
mic power.

PROBLEMS OF OWNERSHIP

Probiems. may arise with respect to
closed: corporations, partnerships, and
business ‘enterprise managed by their
individual owners. The law renders it
unlawful for a business enterprise to
“employ” a nazi. If a nazi owns al! the
stock of ‘a corporation: or a ‘limited
liability: company’ (G. m. b. H.), ‘he may
not:be employed :by-.it except at ordin:
ary labor. If he is a partner of a part-
nership,’ ‘the partnership is:no longer
permitted to use him, except at ordinaty
labor! Removal’ and control of active
nazis directly’:owning and operating

--- Page 10 ---
their own businesses are provided for
in the 7 July and 15 August directives
and their provisions should be applied
when appropriate.

DEFINITION OF BUSINESS ENTERPRISE

The definition of a business enterprise
in which a nazi is prohibited from occu-
fying a position of influence as an
employee is also provided by the Re-
gulations. The term is limited to enter-
prises in private ownership. Govern-
mental agencies and public bodies are
expressly excepted, their personnel hav-
ing .already been dealt with under the
directive of July 7 and prior thereto
concerning the personnel of the public
administration and of public and quasi-
public enterprises. Thus Law No. 8 does
not apply to German railroads, mails,
public telephones and telegraph services,
or to other public utilities. On the other
hand, the term covers not only such
enterprises as are engaged in the usual
commercial operations, such as’ trade,
commerce, and production, but also or-
ganizations engaged in public welfare
activities. Hence nazis are to be re-
moved from positions other than those
of ordinary labor in such organizations
as the Red Cross, the Caritas Verband
and the Innere Mission. A nazi cannot
be a manager in such an organization
or a head physician, head nurse, or
kitchen chef, but he can be a staff
physician, a simple nurse, a social wor-
ker or a cook in one of its institutions.
Farms are not business enterprises.
Owners or supervisory employees on
farms may,- however, be removed and
otherwise controlled under the Directive
of 15 August 1945.

The term “affiliate organizations”
(i. e. organizations affiliated to the nazi
party), has been defined by the Re-
gulations. Members of the following or-

ganizations are declared to be covered by
the law: the NSDAP (nazi party), the
SS (Schutzstaffel), the SA < (Sturmab-
teilung), the NSKK (NS Kraftfahrkorps),
the NSDOB (NS Deutscher: Dozenten-
bund), the NSDStB (NS Deutscher Stu-
dentenbund), the NSF (NS Frauenschaft),
the HJ (Hitler Jugend) and the BdM
(Bund deutscher, Madel).

MEMBERSHIP RELEVANT

By virtue of Law No. 8 alone, mem-
bership in any other organization does
not require removal from a position in
business. The law does not require. re-
moval of members of such organizations
as the Deutsche Arbeitsfront (DAF), the
NS Volkswohlfahrt (NSV), the NS Deut-
scher Arztebund. (NSDAeB), the NS
Lehrerbund (NSLB), the NS Rechtswah-
rerbund (NSRB), the NS Reichsbund fiir
Leibesiibungen, the Reichsarbeitsdienst
(RAD), the Reichskulturkammer, or the
Deutsche Auslandsinstitut (DAI). — It
cannot be emphasized too strongly or
often, however, that connection with
these organizations while not bringing
a man within the terms of Law No. 8 is
by no means irrelevant to the denazi-
fication program generally. Such mem-
bership may have’a material bearing on
his removal or exclusion under’ the
directive of 7 July.

It continues to be the responsibility
of the Military Government detachments
to see that persons employed in
positions of influence in industry. as
well as in public office who are within
the mandatory removal and exclusion
categories because they were officials in
such other organizations, or whose re-
moval is otherwise required by the 7 July
directive, are promptly removed. More-
over, once membership in the party or
any affiliate organization is shown,
membership or. other part in one or

--- Page 11 ---
more of these other organizations ‘has
a‘bearing on the determination under
Law No. 8 of the question whether or
not the man has actively engaged in the
party’s. activities.

INVOLUNTARY MEMBERSHIP

Membership at any time in the nazi
party or in its affiliate organizations
requires a person’s removal from a
position of influence even though he
may have resigned, joined after 1 May
1937, or been expelled. The fact that he
has once voluntarily joined is final. In-
voluntary membership, onthe other hand,
is not sufficient. A person is therefore
exempted from the operation of the law
who, according to German law, was
compelled to become a member and
serve in the Hitler Jugend or Bund
deutscher Madel, or was conscripted
into the Waffen SS after 1. March 1944.

From this privileged position are ex-
cepted, however, persons who, after
being compelled to join the HJ, the
BdM or the Waffen SS proved them-
selves to be such good National Social-
ists: that they were promoted to the
rank of non-commissioned or com-
missioned officer in the Waffen SS or
made officers in the HJ or the BdM. In
the latter case it ought to be remember-
ed that boys and girls were not officers
even if made leaders of such units as
a Rotte, Kameradschaft, Schar, Gefolg-
schaft, Horde, Jungenschaft, Jungzug,
Fahnlein, or their respective female
counterparts. The term “officer” is
limited to adults who occupied positions
of leadership or served on administrat-
ive staffs. If a parallél to the American
Boy Scouts may be permissible, ‘a scout
master would be. an officer but not a
patrol leader or. an assistant scout
master.

With respect to the ordinary members
of the Waffen SS and the SA important

differences exist between the new Law
and thé directive of 7 July. Under the
latter ordinary members of the Waffen
SS are not in the mandatory removal
category. Under Law No. 8 they are
covered unless drafted after 1 March
1944. ‘Ordinary SA men were, as such,
in the mandatory removal category
established by the 7 July directive only
if they joined the SA prior to 1 April
1945. No such time limitation is con-
tained in Law No. 8. :

OPPORTUNITY TO APPEAL

In order to. prevent unjust hardship,
the law holds out to the merely nominal
nazi the opportunity to appeal. To in-
sure, however, that no abuse of this
remedy will be permitted to delay the
purification of the German economy,
the appeal is not allowed to stay en-
forcement. To succeed on his appeal,
one having had membership in the nazi
party or an affiliate organization must
establish that he was not actively en-
gaged in any of the activities of the
nazi party, or its affiliate organizations.
This means that he has neither

(1) held office or otherwise been
active at any level, from local to
national, in the nazi party and
the organizations listed in para-
graphs 1, 2, and 3 of Military
Government Law No. 5, or in or-
ganizations which further mili-
tary doctrines; nor

(2) authorized or participated affirm-
atively in any Nazi crimes, racial
persecutions or discriminations;
nor

(3) been an avowed believer in na-
zism, or racial or militaristic
creeds; nor

(4)' voluntarily given substantial moral

‘or material support, or political
assistance of any kind to the nazi
party or nazi officials.and leaders.

--- Page 12 ---
The burden of proof is upon the ,ap-
pellant. The proof is to be furnished to
review boards. These are to be establish-
ed in each Stadt and Landkreis. by, the
Oberbiirgermeister or Landrat, with the
approval and under the supervision .of
Military Government. If.the board finds
against the appellant, the decision is
final unless the appellant requests a de-
cision by Military Government. If, on
the other hand, the review board finds
for the appellant, its decision. must be
submitted to Military Government for
approval.

DISCHARGE ESSENTIAL

The initiation of review proceedings
has no effect on the obligation to dis-
charge, except in the case of a physi-
cian or other specialist: whose services
aré declared by the Oberbiirgermeister
or'Landrat to. be necessary to the health
of safety of the community and to
whom a temporary and revocable auth-
orization has been issued by Military
Government. Apart from this special
case, everybody who has ever been a
member ‘of one of the enumerated or-
; ganizations must be dismissed or re-
duced to ordinary labor forthwith. If
his. appeal is successful, an employer
may agdin.use or hire him for:a higher
position, but there.is no claim for rein-
statement or backpay.

‘The ‘cases coming before Military
Government Detachments under Law
No. 8 will consist of those in which
favorable action has been recommended
by the German Review Board and those
in'which, although the ‘action’ taken’ by
thé Review Board was unfavorable, the
appellant has requested a decision of
Military Government. In either case, the
Detachment has authority and \re-
sponsibility :to decide whethér or not
the particular job constitutes. ordinary
work. for the purposes of Law: No.8
and its decision will be final. The Detach-
ment will also. decide whether. the po-

sition in a ‘business -enterprise is a
”position of importance in quasi-public
and private enterprise” within the terms
of Par. 3 c of Part 1 of Section. I. If
the decision is that; the: position is. not
so included, the Detachment’s approval
of the employment of the individual will
be final. However, if it decides that the
position is within the definition of Par.
3c of Part 1 of Section II, the Detach-
ment may not finally approve. the
employment but as with all other ap-
peals under Section II, must forward the
record to Headquarters, United States
Forces, European Theater, for approval
or review in the manner provided: by
Pars. 4b and ‘4d of. Part 1 of Section
Il. This is subject-to'the qualification
that where the’ position in business
enterprise is one within Par. 3c of
Part 1 of Section If but the applicant
does not fall within a mandatory re-
moval or. exclusion category, his
employment may be permitted after
approval by the Detachment, subject to
review by this Headquarters, United
States Forces, European Theater.

If Headquarters, United States Forces,
European Theater, determines that: a
member of the Party or an affiliate or-
ganization and thus falling within, Law
No. 8 whose case is referred to: it in
accordance with the foregoing prin-
ciples, did not actively: participate in its
activities and should therefore. not. be
employed except in ordinary _ labor;
notice of the decision will be. sent to
the responsible. Detachment which will
in turn give appropriate notice. to the
appellant and his employer.

Suchnotice should specify that any.auth-
orization previously given by the detach-
ment under paragraph 5 of LawNo.8 was
terminated as of the date. of the notice
and that from and after that date the
person concerned could be employed
only in.’ ordinary work.” It is to be no-
ted, however, that the authorization of

--- Page 13 ---
the detachment would constitute..a valid
authorization for the employment’ of
the person concerned in other than
“ordinary work” for the period inter-
vening between the issuance of the auth-
orization and of the notice of ter-
mination.

It is of the greatest importance that
the distinction between cases in the
mandatory removal and exclusion cate-
gories and other cases be observed in
proceedings under Law No. 8 as well
as those solely under Section II. Detach-
ments are not authorized to permit any
person in the mandatory categories to
be employed in "positions of import-
ance” until their appeals have been acted
upon favorably by higher headquarters.

GUIDES TO REVIEWING APPEALS

In weighing appeals, the following
considerations are suggested as helpful
guides. Mere membership carries with
it an inference of some activity; just as
the unexplained fact of having joined
is sufficient to establish personal benefit
from the membership. The uncorrobora-
ted statement of the appellant that he
was just a ’nominal participant” cannot
sufficiently overcome these inferences
to satisfy the burden of proof resting
onthe appellant. Such a_ statement,
however, coupled with affirmative dis-
interested evidence that his joining was
for reasons not connected with per-
sonal tangible advantage or with sym-
pathy with nazi ideology, should be ac-
ceptable in the absence of other
evidence of activity.

Then the mere fact of having held a
position of importance, public or pri-
vate, during the nazi period, gives ‘the
basis for a strong inference of activity
and nazi acceptability. The more im-
portant the position, the stronger, of
course, the inference. This is:the under-
lying. premise for. many. of. the man-

10

datory removal and exclusion cate-
gories. If the job was not of great im-
portance or influence and was not. ac-
companied by substantial or unusual
salary increases, disinterested and af-
firmative evidence of lack of party ac-
tivity or of party acceptability should
be necessary and sufficient to rebut the
basic inference. The strength and weight
of this evidence must increase as the
importance of, or the tangible benefits
from, the position increases.

In the case of high officials, such as
these in the Hdhere Dienst, there should
be corroborative evidence that the ap-
pellant had acted contrary to the in-
terests and ideology of the party or
was considered unreliable by it (in short,
was in some degree an anti-nazi). Or it
might be sufficient if the evidence
established clearly that he had been kept
in office because of his abilities and in
spite of his refusal to become an active
nazi.

COLLATERAL GROUPS

When the appellant was not only a
member of one of the prescribed or-.
ganizations but also, as is usually the case,
a member of various collateral ones,
the importance of this fact will depend
on which were the collateral ones and
the position in them. Thus membership
in the DAF, NSV, the Reichsluftschutz-
bund or the Deutsche Jagerschaft would
not be very significant, but membership
in six or seven such organizations or
an official position in the DAF, RAD
and others like them would require
strong affirmative evidence to be re-
butted.

Thus, as in other aspects, in the con:
sideration of what constitute active as
distinguished from nominal participation
in nazi activities, the principles devel-
oped and applicable under Section II of
the 7. July directive remain applicable
under Law No. 8 as well.

--- Page 14 ---
Many Will Survive, But .

Editor’s note: The status of
nutrition. in Germany has caused
much speculation. This article
gives a clear picture of the situ-
ation now existing, and highlights
the signs pointing to more acute
malnutrition. With the coming of
winter, malnutrition will become
one of the biggest problems of
Military Government.

*The consumption of food is below
minimum required levels in a large pro-
portion of the population.” This’ cold
statement canbe translated into under-
standable statistics easily enough. For
instance: the infant mortality rate in
Reriin for August was 1448 deaths out
of 2866 births, which represents a death
rate among babies in the first year of
life ten times that in the United States.
Death in Berlin is recorded on the books
as “dysentery.” In most cases, dysentery
is.merely the terminal event; the real
cause’ is malnutrition. Berliners are
actually dying of dysentery, but only
because they have lost almost all re-
sistance to disease.

WHAT SURVEYS ‘REVEAL

Recent surveys, while indicating that
variations exist in different areas and
classes of the population, reveal that
the nutrition deficiences are widespread.
Authorized rations are being met, but
they are not at a level high enough to
provide for the minimum requirements
of certain nutrients and categories of
the population. Failure to meet require-
ments has occurred despite the inclusion

a

‘in the diet of a Bensiic rable amount of
non-rationed food, obtainable in “the
form of vegetables and.fruit in home
gardens and in open market. While a
relatively liberal supply of such foods
has made it possible to maintain a satis-
factory level of certain nutrients, .it has
not been adequate in amount: or kinds
of food to provide for such crucial
dietary factors as calories or protein.

CALORIC REQUIREMENTS

The deficiency of calories (energy) ‘is
shown by the losses of body weight
which have been found by nutrition
survey teams and by the program of
’street-weighing” instituted by “the
Public Health Branch, Office of: Military
Government (U.S. Zone). Simple loss of
weight frequently might not-necessarily
bear significant relation to health, be-
cause most people have a store of re-
served fat which can be sacrificed
without detriment. When the loss re-
duces the body weight considerably
below the normal standard for the ‘in-
dividual there is an impairment of
health and reduction in his ability to
work. Therefore, the weights have been
analyzed in relation to normal average
physiological weight for age, height and
sex. The results demonstrate clearly that
no reserve exists against a continued
deficit of caloric ‘intake. If continued,
this deficit will result specifically in
inability to. perform normal activites
or productive work.

Energy deficiencies vary according to
the expected work output, balanced
against the caloric intake. For the
normal sedentary consumer, for _in-

--- Page 15 ---
stance, 2000 calories may supply the
minimum necessary activity.

The worker who is called on to ex-
pend 2300 or 3700 calories daily must
receive food providing these amounts,
if the expected work output is to be
maintained. The recent surveys show
that in the civilian population as a
whole any expenditure of energy above
the amount furnished by the food
cannot be met by reserves of body
tissue. These have been used up. Con-
tinued output in excess of intake must
inevitably be accompanied by a loss of
body weight which will reduce the indi-
vidual to a point of ineffectiveness and
a state of actual starvation.

PROTEIN DEFICIENCIES

“Concomitant with the decrease in
caloric intake and loss of body weight,
there is a deficiency of protein. Not
only is the consumption of protein
deficient in terms of absolute amounts,
particularly in such groups as pregnant
women, and children (10-17), but it is
even more often deficient because of a
deficiency of calories, which means
that protein is burned for energy rather
than being used as protein in normal
growth and cell regeneration. As a re-
sult, hunger swelling (nutritional edema),
a physical manifestation of protein
deficiency, and laboratory tests indicat-
ing protein deficiency, are being en-
countered in a greater than normal
number of the population. It is signi-
ficent that this deficiency is found
particularly among those whose energy
outputs are greatest and whose physi-
ological needs are larger (pregnant and
nursing women). This is of particular
significance in relation to the needs of
essential workers such as miners, trans-
port workers and the like.

12

Nutrient requirements other than
protein are, on the whole, satisfactory.
This is the result of the consumption of
relatively large amounts of vegetable
and fruits during the summer. While not
contributing greatly to the needs for
calories or protein, these foodstuffs do
provide an excellent and_ relatively
abundant source of many vitamins and
minerals. As a result of rather large
consumption of such foods, the intake
of vitamins and minerals has been more
than adequate for most classes of the
population and in most areas. Exception
must be taken to such areas as Berlin
and Munich, where the lack of sources
of such nutrients has reduced the intake
far below minimum requirements. While
the inhabitants of other areas have been
able to lay in a body store of these
essential nutrients against a period of
greatly reduced intake during the
winter, the inhabitants of those two
cities are entering on a period of
general low intake without the benefit
of as large accumulated reserves.

CONTRIBUTING FACTORS

An -important additional factor con-
tributing to the nutritional deficiencies
is the lack of sufficient heat and ade-
quate shelter and clothing during the
winter. Inadequate protection against
tlie cold leads to a direct increase in
the loss of body heat and increases the
caloric requirements. It thus increases
or exaggerates any deficiencies. In ad-
dition, it predisposes to other’ dietary
deficiencies, raises mortality among the

undernourished, and is a factor in
occurrence of disease.
The effects of deficient intake of

essential nutrients are cumulative. They
are insidious, and often fail to give
warning of the disastrous effects which

--- Page 16 ---
result from failure to satisfy a need
long denied. Furthermore, they are in-
direct and devious in the way in which
they express their deficiency. Starvation
to the point of death is simple, but ex-
ceptional; it is more commonly ex-
pressed by diminished resistance to
disease, by decreased ability and a

13

failure to maintain normal and needed
activity and perform essential work.
Dietary requirements are calculable
mathematically, and are unchangeable.
The degree to which they are met will
alone determine the state of nutritional
health and working capacity during the
winter.

--- Page 17 ---
General

Integration in Military Government

It is a well-established principle that
the commander and the echelon res-
ponsible for carrying out the com-
mands must be closely integrated in
order to insure success. The policy
maker, the originator of plans, direct-
ives or instructions, must have intimate
knowledge of how they are being
carried out. He must know from his
own observation whether these policies,
plans, directives or instructions are
sound and practical. This is so whether
the field of endeavor be civilian or
military.

There has been established for some
time an Operations Section in the
Internal Affairs Branch of the Office of
Military Government, U.S. Zone. The
mission of this Section is to furnish the
valuable connection between the policy
maker and the operator, and to evaluate
the effectiveness of Military Govern-
ment operations in the field. The task
of determining whether policies, plans,
directives and instructions are being
understood and carried out by detach-
ments is a function of this Section. Its
field personnel discuss with detachments
current over-all Military Government
problems, and also the personal pro-
blems of the unit.

The Operations Section is composed
of several teams, each consisting of two
officers, a stenographer, and a driver.
These teams:contact Military Govern-
ment detachments, and carefully inter-
view every officer and enlisted man in

14

the organization. All are encouraged to
speak freely about Military Govern-
ment, its problems, its effectiveness and
the reactions of the German people to
it. They are also free to discuss their
part in the Military Government picture,
and their particular duties and _ res-
ponsibilities.

All of this detailed information
becomes the subject of what is called
the First Report.” The object of this
report is to give a complete picture of
the area in which the detachment is
functioning and the status of operations
such as denazification, Governmental
Affairs, Public Safety, Transportation,
Food and Agriculture and many others.
The report also includes information
on the organization and functioning
of the internal administration of the
detachment, and a "thumb-nail” sketch
of each officer and enlisted man in
the detachment. The ”First Report”
serves as the basis upon which subse-
quent contacts are made with the
detachment. Certain of the conclusions
and recommendations require that
follow-up” contacts be made, to deter-
mine whether the detachment or the
other echelons of command are able
satisfactorily to carry out the re-
commendations.

It must be understood that the Oper-
ations officer does not attempt to carry
out the functions of a_ technical
specialist. But if he finds that a detach-
ment is faced with a problem of a

--- Page 18 ---
technical nature requiring the attention
of a specialist from a higher echelon,
he can so recommend. On the other
hand, based on his contacts and ex-
periences in the field, he is frequently
in the position to make suggestions
which he has seen successfully carried
out by other detachments. This  ex-
change and dissemination of valuable
ideas in the practical operations of
Military Government has already proved
its worth in a number of cases.

The Operations Section should not be
looked upon as a fault-finding organiza-
tion. It is an effort to. close as much
as possible the gap between the policy
maker and the personnel in the field,
reducing the distance between those
who issue the orders and those who
carry them out. Operations Officers
are trying to carry out their mission in
such a manner that when they leave
detachments, and have made their re-
ports, they feel that they have con-
tributed something to the detachments.
In turn, the detachments may expect
that the Operations officers’ records
of their experience are concrete con-
tributions to the advancement of effec-
tive Military Government at higher
levels.

The Minister President of Bavaria

Dr. William Hoegner, now 52 years
old, passed his law examinations in
Munich with highest honors, became a
public prosecutor, then judge in the
Landgericht. He’ was a member of the
Social Democratic Party. He took a
public stand against Hitler. in 1923 and
also attacked Kahr, the reactionary
leader of the Bavarian People’s Party.
Throughout the period of the Weimar
Republic, he attacked the nazi party,

15

and in 1934-fled to Austnia- and'then® to
Switzerland. He worked closely with the
Allied authorities in supporting the
underground movement in: Germany,
and returned to “Germany before ie
German defeat. ~

Directly ‘upon assuming - office, De.
Hoeger issued a declaration on behalf
of the new Government which promises
the elimination . of every vestige: : of
national socialist influence from the
Bavarian: Administration. He also made
a direct appeal to the Bavarian people
to cooperate with the new ministry.

Hoegner’s Ministry

.The eight ministers ofthe new gov-
ernment are as follows: Dr. Hoegner
(Socialist Democrat), Minister Pre-
sident and Minister of Justice; Dr. Fritz
Terhalle (Non-Political), Minister. of
Finance; Joseph Seyfried (Socialist
Democrat), Minister of Interior; | Dr.
Franz Fendt (Socialist Democrat), Mi
nister of Education; Dr. Baumgartner
(Christian Socialist Union), Minister of
Agriculture; Dr. Hans Ehrhardt (Demo-
crat), Minister of Economics; Albert
Rosshaupter (Socialist Democrat), . Mi-
nister of Labor; and a special denazifica-
tion Minister without portfolio — Hein-
rich Schmitt, (Communist).

In order to prevent any special group
from dominating the ministry each
minister has assigned to him a state
secretary or a state councillor from
another political group. Thus, . Dr.
Hoegner has assigned to. him a’state
secretary from the Christian Social
Union, Anton Pfeiffer, and a state
councillor, Hans Ehardt, from the same
political group. The Minister of the
Interior, a Social Democrat, has a Com-
munist, Ficker, as his state . secretary.
The Minister of Education, a Social

--- Page 19 ---
Democrat, has as his state secretary a
member .of. the Christian Social. Union,
Dr. Hans Meinzolt. The Minister of
Agriculture, a member. of the Christian
Social Union, has the-Communist Sched-
inger, as his state secretary. Rosshaup-
ter, the. Social Democratic Minister of
‘Labor, has Krelle, from. the Christian
Social Union, as his. state secretary.

Another: innovation of the new
ministry is the special denazification
‘Minister without portfolio, an office

now. held by the Communist Schmitt.

Barter Board Authorized

Eastern Military District has been
authorized to establish a barter board
in Munich for the purpose of ex-
pediting the negotiation of trade trans-
actions between Bavaria and Austria, and
Bavaria and Czechoslovakia. The proposed
barter board will consist of members
of the Bavarian Ministry of Economics
and representatives of the Governments
of Austria and Czechoslovakia. It will
be closely supervised by Military Gov-
ernment. The Office of Military Gov-
ernment, United States Zone, has al-
ready negotiated with both countries.

Green Light For Interzonal Traffic

Military Districts were directed last
week to remove all existing restrictions
on interzonal movement, both into and
out of the United States Zone, of all
goods and services, with certain cri-
tical exceptions. These. include: coal,
lumber,’ glass, POL, soap, pulp and
paper, highway. vehicles, locomotives,
rolling stock, road construction
machinery, textiles and rationed clothes,
leather and shoes, and rationed foods.

16

Subject to security restrictions, inter-
zonal civilian movement for business
reasons is also to be facilitated.

No Barley for Beer

The critical food situation requires
that all available barley be used for
bread making. Hence, production of
beer for consumption by German ci-
vilians has been prohibited since oc-
cupation. Thirteen breweries and four
malt houses have been reserved in the
Zone for production of beer for United
States Forces. These facilities will be the

only ones in the Zone allowed to
operate.

Enemy War Materials
Military Districts have been au-

thorized to sell to German farmers, ci-
vilian commercial operators, and others,
captured enemy war materials in the
following general categories: road
transport vehicles and maintenance
equipment; highway maintenance equip-
ment; office equipment and supplies;
and radio equipment. In addition, they
may sell captured enemy war materials
which fall under categories of com-
modities authorized for production.

In Brief

Use of ex-enemy personnel or dis-
placed persons, subject to the usual
security precautions, as drivers of mili-
tary vehcles has been authorized by
USFET . . . Military Districts have been
authorized to effect the restitution of
looted cultural objects directly td
Western Allied Nations without further
reference of approval of USFET, sub-

--- Page 20 ---
ject to the execution of approved re-
ceipt forms... Special Branch and
CIC personnel have been given as a
first priority the vetting of inland
waterways personnel (an estimated 300

17

in the two critical categories, the
Schiffahrtstellen Wasserstrassen Direk-
tion and the Wasserbaudmter), and the
Hoheredienst group of the Reichsbahn
(about 400).

--- Page 21 ---
German ; Reactions ;

Churches Play
Politics

As has been indicated here before.
German churches of various denomina-
tions are showing increased interest in
the political situation. In some cases
this interest has taken the form of ac-
tive intervention against Military Gov-
enment decisions; in others it is con-
fined to debate between the different
sects and theorizing over Germany’s
past, present, and future.

One detachments reports having re-
ceived_a letter from a clergyman pro-
testing against the arrest of a member
of the SS. It was stated in his defence
that he was a good choir member and
his incarceration seriously handicapped
the church choir.

OCCUPATION CRITICIZED

On quite a different level is the
implied criticism of Military Govern-
ment contained in a recent religious
pamphlet circulated in several parishes
in Wiirttemberg, where we read: ”’From
a cultural standpoint we have fallen far
behind, and it appears to be the inten-
tion of our present rulers that we will
never be permitted to rise again.” The
writer of the article believes that the
instrument of oppression to be used
in Germany is being made by the
churches outside of Germany. These
groups, it is stated, are forming a com-

mittee whose objective is to "starve
Germany.”
In another religious pamphlet from

the same region the question of war
guilt is discussed at some length. Here

18

it is claimed that the evils of nazism
developed as a consequence of Ger-
many’s "turning away from God” and
falling into the ’terrible hands of man.”
The writer, warming to his argument,
states that secularism has now become
a powerful force throughout the world
and there is great danger that it will
lead the conquering nations into the
same error which brought Germany’s
doom. Secularism leads to dictatorship
while democracy is built on Christian
principles. Therefore, to eradicate all
traces of nazism in Germany, it will not
be sufficient to replace one political
system by another. The German people
must first reawaken to a sense of re-
sponsibility toward God, and then a
Christian democracy can be built on a
solid foundation. This reawakening is
to be accomplished by all the means
of modern propaganda. Politics, on the
other hand, must be relegated to a sub-
sidiary role in German social life.

Returning to the question of guilt, an
urgent plea is made that Germany
should not be the only nation to stand
accused before the world. All are equally
infected with the disease of secularism.
The victors should recognize their own
taint. Since both victor and vanquished
are guilty of the same sin, Germany
should be forgiven and the past for-
gotten.

If this is not done, the writer warns,
there will be a repetition of the tragedy

--- Page 22 ---
of liberal Germany. after the last war:
The ‘Allies are accused of sabotaging
the efforts of liberal statesmen for the
establishment of a Christian democracy,
and of having encouraged the develop-
ment of the dictatorship. Thus, se-
cularism received its greatest support
from outside Germany and the German
people came to believe that might makes
right.

Letters from Germans
The "Non-Nazi"

”»There are many who, during the
past twelve years, did not join the party
and were always careful never to come
into close contact with the nazis. They
believe that this gives them the right to
a position in the new democratic state.
And it is true that they belonged to
no party, even prior to 1933. But they
were always ready to serve whoever
was in power, were it Hitler or Thal-
mann. They raised their hands. obedient-
ly in the nazi salute and waved the
swastika banner from their windows.
They were never under observation by
the police; they never knew: what a

concentration camp meant.... To
build a real democracy only proven
anti-nazis should be in public office.

No one should be accepted who is
neither hot nor cold. We must know
with whom we have to deal. It is simply
a poor excuse to say that they them-
selves formed no party.. The party itself
was formed for them. It was made to
their measure, to suit their comfort,
their greed,.and their fear.”
* *

Denazification

”For us, who have been in concen-
tration camps for political or racial
teasons, denazification :is..going :much

too slowly. This is regrettable,: forthe
nazis’ are now laying in supplies from
the black market while others starve.

. Who were, for the most part, the shop

£9

owners and factory directors? Nazis.
Who were able to save their belongings
during the bombing attacks? Nazis.
For the majority of the people there
was no possibility or opportunity to ob-
tain the transport or the storage neces-
sary to do likewise . . . Of course, all
of us know today that these nazis were
never really nazis, but they recognize
each other, and they still keep together,
support each other, and among them:
selves carry on as before. The . nazi
underground must be destroyed.”
* *

Housing .
Since nazism is responsible for the
frightful condition of our homes, it is
only right that nazis should be -put
out of their own homes, as often as
not acquired through their party mem-
bership, in order to provide shelter for
our KZs and bombed-out anti-nazis. So
many people are now living in cellars
or garrets! Why not send the nazis in
labor gangs to France, Holland, . and
Belgium. This would relieve the ‘housing
situation and it would also hasten the
return of our PWs still interned in those
countries. That would be reparations!”
*  #

Nazi Food Distributors

‘It so happens that in the manage-
ment of the food distributors organiza-
tion a change has taken place ‘of late.
A committee has been named to take
charge, and in~ this committee are
several former nazis, That should never
be permitted as it was the nazis who
drove the. people to their present state
of misery. But now they are in a posi+
tion to..help out their... old _ political

--- Page 23 ---
friends and the anti-nazi must: continue
to suffer. A clean sweep should be
made of all the nazis. We must conserve
our food supplies for the coming winter
and prevent their misappropriation by
the nazi distributors.”

Nazi Purge: Mental Side

As we proceed with our program
of ousting from active positions in
German society all people who helped
poison this society with nazism, in-
numerable things keep us alert to the
fact that the poison itself lingers on.
It still clouds the air in Germany and
the minds of millions of its citizens.
In the short article below one German
discusses some of the factors that will
help dispel these clouds, gradually,
perhaps, but effectively.

The revival of national-socialistic
circles and thoughts can best be pre-
vented by letting a free wind blow over
our people. In such a free air the foul
blossoms of the recent past will not be
able to flourish. In their stead we can
clear the path for two currents from
which we have been cut off for years.
The first is that we must obtain access
to all the great and fine things which
the world beyond our boundaries pro-
duced during the years of our in-
tellectual isolation, be they the works
of Germans or of citizens of foreign
countries. Secondly — and I regard this
as a strong counterforce to a return
of national socialism we must
restore the men of the older generations
to their rightful place, specifically, au-
thors and artists who have been for-
gotten too quickly. We'll find that we’ll
not have to suffer from _ intellectual
poverty, if we will only dig in our
ruins, where lies enough seed-corn. to

20

guarantee Germany’s future. And the
day has now come when the invisible
(i. e. spiritual Germany can regain its
former prominence. It lives on in the
many individuals who strive to become
worthy bearers of a thousand-year
tradition, who live not only in the past
but seek their way beyond the dark and
difficult present to a free humanity, to
a happier future for our people and for
the world. oF

*T should like to close «with a quo-
tation from Hans Carossa’s ’Arzt Gion’:
*the years of reconstruction after a
terrible collapse are the really fruitful
years of nations. To be sure, it is only
the few thoughtful and active spirits
who. understand the advantages of
defeat, but these few are the ones who
really count, They quietly prepare the

future while others enjoy, accuse,
curse, stir up rebellion, or prescribe to
mankind what its future behavior

should be.’ Are these words not valid
for our time, too?”

Is Hitler Still Alive?

The following item is translated from
the recently licensed Rhein-Neckar Zei-
tung:

”*One often hears the question, "Do
you believe Hitler is still alive?’

”To this there
Hitler still lives.’

*Wereupon there is no end of
questions. "Where does he live? How
is he? Who told you this?’

»This questioning typifies the thought
processes of most Germans. But here,
too, there is only one reply, Hitler still
lives in you. You, yourself, are Hitler!”

Just a minute, now,’ your surprised

is only one reply,

--- Page 24 ---
interlocuter answers back, ’I was always
AGAINST. Mr. X and Mr. Y can both
testify to it.’

”No, my friend, whoever asks such
a question cannot know that it is im-
material whether or not Hitler’s remains
still have life in them. It is material and
significant only to know whether his
spirit still reigns over us.» And there
you must agree with me that for a long
time now Hitler has NOT been dead.

,

But, beg you....

Never mind the~’buts.’ We all know
today that all were AGAINST and that
Hitler alone was Hitler. All those who
do so much declaiming now, tirelessly
justifying their past politics (for ego-
tistic and cowardly motives), all aré‘a

21

part of that great monster which. came,
as a Hitler, to mankind.

"Declaiming and disclaiming make
matters worse.

"There is salvation only for him who
beats his breast in true remorse and
acknowledges that in him, too, — party
member or not — Hitler still lives, and
that he, too, is partly to blame for the
great catastrophe.

“As long as our people merely
grumble and complain — and look for
faults in others rather than in them-
selves — just so long will Hitler live.

*Hitler will be dead and buried only
after we have overcome the generous
’We’ of common endeavour.”

--- Page 25 ---
Voices of Experience

. DON'T ASK US

“ Typical of the general trend in Mili-
-tary Government toward placing the
responsibility on the Germans is the
specific direction given by the Bremen
detachment to the people of the city
who have been told that applications
and requests for action of all types
will’ be referred to the competent Ger-
man authorities rather than to Military
Government. It has been emphasized
that applications will not be accepted
by Military Government, and that any
attempts to by-pass civilian channels
will merely result in delay.

APPRENTICES IN BUILDING TRADES

Because of the acute shortage of
workers in the building trades in Bre-
men an accelerated program of ap-
prenticeship training has been in-
stituted. In addition to the regular
three-year apprentices (youths), ar-
rangements have been made with the
master- craftsmen and building firms
to train semi-skilled craftsmen. These
men are being selected from former war
plant workers (such as aircraft fac-
tories), commercial workers, and dis-
charged PWs. The building firms and
master craftsmen have agreed to con-
tract with these workers on the basis
of one-year apprenticeship, but to

22

pay them the scale for semi-skilled
workers instead of on the. basis of
youth apprentices. Thus, during Septem-
ber, one firm trained 40 semi-skilled
bricklayers in their yards and now
have them out repairing houses. During
October, 60 additional bricklayers will
be trained,-and it is planned to- train
100 monthly during the winter. It is re-
cognized by both the firms and the
craftsmen that most of the work in re-
habilitating dwelling houses can be per-
formed by semi-skilled workers under
the direction of a journeyman. Bremen
is working on the assumption that re-
pairs can be made and workmen trained
at the same time.

WEHRMACHT HORSES

The people of Bremen who relin-
quished their horses to the Wehrmacht
are not seeking to exchange their re-
ceipts for Wehrmacht horses. The Oster-
holz detachment ruled that no horses
would be exchanged for Wehrmacht
receipts, and that it would be necessary
for the Germans to hold their receipts
pending their disposition by the Ger-
man government at a later date.

--- Page 26 ---
P ress Comments

Occupation Problems
in Spotlight

Removal of Friedrich Schaeffer as
Minister President of Bavaria evoked
favorable comment in the American
press during the week as occupation
problems in Germany held the spotlight.
Giving high praise to the combat re-
cord and achievements of the Army,
commentators expressed the view that
civilians might nevertheless be better
qualified to administer Germany than
military personnel. The action of Ge-
neral Eisenhower in relieving General
Patton of his Third Army command
was seen as strengthening occupation
policies.

The ouster. of Schaeffer "is the best
political news that has yet come from
the American Occupation Zone in Ger-
many,” declared the New Republic in its
October 8 issue. ’The fact that it took
more than three months for our military
authorities to mend their ways and
adopt a democratic policy — the need
for which was apparent to liberals as
far away as the United States — again
emphasizes the inability of the Army to
run the civilian affairs of an occupied
country.”

Max Werner, in PM, asserted that
with the dismissal of Schaeffer and tha
appointment of the Socialist, Dr. Wil-
helm Hoegner, as Minister President of
Bavaria, General Eisenhower “has tack-
led the most important problem of our
occupational policy, whom to trust, and
with whom we must cooperate. Eisen-

23

lO
ished eee Times

Boats

hower’s action was not merely a neces-
sity from the point of view of military
occupation, but it also happens to meet
the realities of German politics. Ger-
many is going in the same direction as
the rest of Europe, and its first elec-
tions will show that it, too, will vote
for the left.”

General Eisenhower was widely com-
mended for his action in relieving
General Patton from command. of. the
Third Army. Said The New York Times,
“American people will trust Gene-
ral Eisenhower’s intentions in this mat-
ter. We should see an end of the
scandal of an easy life for Nazis and
a tough one for those who fought and
suffered in the war against nazism.” ‘

The Philadelphia Inquirer said that the
action was General Eisenhower’s ’force-
ful method of serving notice that no
weakness in dealing with the nazis will
be tolerated, and that nazism must be
eradicated. It is unfortunate that a war
hero of General Patton’s stature should
be relegated to the command of a paper
army, but if the action leads to stronger
and more intelligent occupation policies
in Germany, it will have been more than
justified.”

The Washington Star expressed the
view that the situation in Germany "now
calls for a type of administration which
must be difficult to find in the  per-
sonnel of combat troops. No matter
who is in charge, the job in Germany

--- Page 27 ---
this winter is going to tax the wisdom
of a Solomon.”

The columnist, Samuel Grafton, sug-
gested the use of civilian officials in
administering Germany, the Army ser-
ving only as a police force. "We Ameri-
cans are not accustomed to having to
bother about the politics of our Army
officers; and it might be more in the
American tradition to send civilian
officials to Germany to manage the
occupation, using the Army as a police
force only,” said Grafton. ’The creation
of a non-political Army is one of
America’s great democratic achieve-
ments. It would be a shame to see even
the slightest strain placed on the
tradition as the unexpected by-product

of an effort to restore democracy to
Germany.”
According to Raymond Daniell of

The New York Times, there are four
reasons for the troublesome problems
in the U.S. Zone. They are: first, the
vast difference between the avowed
policy at the top, and the manner of
administration at the lower levels;
second, the failure to realize that the
end of the war would create a shortage
of trained personnel through discharges
and the pressure from home to release
men; third, lack of intelligent indoctrina-
tion of either Germans or U.S. troops
at home and their families that the
battle is only half won; and fourth, the
failure to realize that virtually unlimited
fraternization would inevitably infect an
ever-growing number of men _ with
criticism primarily directed at the Allies.

The effect of fraternization on the
attitude of American soldiers was even
more strongly emphasized by Tania
Long, in a dispatch to The New York
Times. "The Surgeon General has re-
ported a rise in social diseases among

24

American troops since German sur-
render. There is no similar report on
the mental attitude of the soldiers, but
if there were, it would certainly show
a rising curve of thought supporting
the German propaganda line since the
lifting of the ban on public fraterniza-
tion opened the door to social inter-
course between the officers and men of
the U.S. Army and the people whose
country they are here to occupy and
rule.”

Montgomery Report

Presenting a grim picture of con-
ditions in Germany, Field Marshal
Montgomery, in a talk to the News-
paper Society of London, asserted it was
not part of his plan to pamper the
Germans, pointing out that they
brought this disaster on themselves and
must therefore face the consequences.
”On the other hand, I am not prepared
to see widespread famine and disease
sweep through Europe, as it inevitably
must if we allow hundreds and thou-
sands of Germans to die,” he said.

Montgomery announced that "all the
leading nazis whom we could find” have
been arrested, and dismissed from their
posts, and promised that there would
no relaxation of efforts to purge the
whole German state of nazis and near-
nazis —” men who, though not actually
members of the party, did well of it
when the going was good, and actively
supported the Nazi party,” The anti-
nazi purge, he added, constitutes ’an-
other serious handicap to our building
up an efficient administration since,
what with the purge, German losses in
men during the war, and the fact that
no young civil servants have been
trained for six years, Germany is left

--- Page 28 ---
with very few

ministrators.”

experienced ad-

Field Marshal Montgomery rendered
a notable service by his speech, declared
the Manchester Guardian. It was not that
his description of conditions was new, for
the same things have been reported
over and over again by special corre-
spondents in this and other papers,” the
Guardian said. "But it is valuable to
have it repeated with such emphasis by
one who, as British Commander-in-
Chief in Germany, is in the best po-
sition to know the facts, and is not
likely to be accused of undue sympathy
with the German people. Certainly the
facts are grim enough.”

"Innocents Abroad"

Military Government personnel and
training policies have come under fire
in a recent article in the Nation, entitled
”AMG — Innocents Abroad.” The au-
thor, Saul Padover, declares that Mili-
tary Government personnel were not
properly trained to rule Germany in
peacetime, and that Military Govern-
ment entered Germany without any
long-range program.

Military Government officers were
certainly not chosen because they were
specialists in politics or experts on Ger-
many,” the article stated.” As regards a
knowledge of German, the facts are,
I think, sensational. Military Govern-
ment officers do not know the German
language; they rely upon German in-
terpreters, who are frequently dubious
characters. Military Government in Ger-
many today is staffed with officers who
are competent in their special fields
and decent in their personal relations,
but who are psychologically and

25

professionally unprepared fo the job
of governing in a foreign country.”

Padover cited another handicap fac-
ing operations of Military Government
in Germany — "It attempted to operate
in a foreign country without a most
vital instrument of government — a po-
litical intelligence department.”

Army Cuts Criticized

Insistence of Congress that American
troops be returned from Europe as soon
as possible is beginning to hamper the
occupation program, and to interfere
with the smooth functioning of other
agencies, Tania Long warned in a dis-
patch to The New York Times on Sep-
tember 23. Military Government de-
tachments throughout the American
Zone find themselves constantly depleted
because high-score officers and men are
going home,” she said. ”The efficient
Military Government of Germany is
greatly impaired, as the replacements
are new to the situation, and. must make
a fresh start.”

”Are we trying to police Germany on
a shoe string?” asked the Philadelphia
Record in commenting on The New
York Times article. "Are we willing to
gamble the indiscriminate return of
our boys now against the lives of their
sons in another war?”

Allied Proclamation

The 48-point proclamation issued to
the German people by the Allied Con-
trol Commission received favorable
comment in the press as evidence that
the occupation authorities have no in-
tention of coddling the Germans. The
Washington Post, for example, said

--- Page 29 ---
that the proclamation shows that the
Allies, despite the alarm voiced by some
critics, "do have a policy toward Ger-
many, a policy which, if fully carried
out, should permanently draw the fangs
of German aggressiveness.”

In London, the Daily Sketch declared
that ’the proclamation underlines, in
unmistakable fashion, the completeness
of Germany’s defeat. Much more im-
portant, it provides the clearest possible
demonstration of the fixed and unalter-
able resolve of the Allies that never
again shall a resurgent and rearmed
Teuton barbarism be allowed to disturb
the peace of Europe. Here, indeed, is a
crusading reply to those Germans who
still cherished the fond illusion that
they could hoodwink the United Nations
in 1945 as their predecessors hood-
winked the Allied and Associated
Powers a quarter of a century ago.”

Random Comments

"It is customary to place the blame
for our mistakes in Germany on Mili-
tary Government. In doing so, we as
Americans are only trying to find a
scapegoat for ourselves. For- Military
Government is’ neither more nor less
than a cross-section of the U.S.A. —
men from Cleveland and Los Angeles
and New York and Meriden, Connecticut,
and Paris, Texas. These men in Mili-
tary Government changed none of their
home-town prejudices and political
opinions when they donned a uniform.
There are among them fascists and
protofascists and conservatives and li-
berals and even a few extreme left-
wingers. And if right-wing opinion
among them predominates, it is be-
cause more people in America read the

26

Saturday Evening Post, which a few
weeks ago attacked me editorially for
having urged that ardent ‘nazis be
punished whether or not they could be

linked to a specific crime, than read
PM.” — Victor Bernstein in PM.
* *
”As to the conditions in the (con-

centration) camps, I know fom personal
experience as correspondent in Berlin
up to the outbreak of the war how
difficult it was to obtain authentic in-
formation. The few who ever left these
hells were too petrified with terror to
breathe a word about the conditions.
This makes it all the more desirable
that the details of the trials at Liine-
burg and elsewhere should be given
the fullest publicity in Germany. Only
thus can Germans be made to realize
adequately the results of entrusting
the future of their nation to a sadistic
group of monomaniacs.” — Anthony
Mann, correspondent for the London
Daily Telegraph.
* *

"Consultation and cooperation .are
obviously. desirable, but the example of
Germany may cause one to wonder
whether the undivided authority of one
power is not a better solution of the
problem of occupation than the establis-
ment of four zones and four different
‘and often competing authorities. The
spectacle of the German people, disinte-
grated, leaderless, hopeless and starving
is a warning against similar ex-
periments. The Japanese people will face
some starvation this winter. But at least
they are not on their way to becoming
a vast derelict human slum.” — London
Economist.

* *

” Americans worthy of the name will

share their food gladly with the under-

--- Page 30 ---
nourished and staring millions of Eu-
rope. We in this country have had to
substitute some food for others, but we
don’t know what it is like to be star-
ving. While Americans consume 3,000
calories a day, an abundance for the
hardest worker, the starving peoples of
Europe receive only about 1,500 ca-
lories, or some 60 per cent of their
minimum requirements. — We Ameri-
cans have spoken many words about
our democracy. Now it is our part to
put democracy into action, not in words
any longer, but in loaves of bread and
bottles of milk and sides of meat, in the
democratic language of hungry fellow
citizens.” — editorial in St. Louis Post

Dispatch.
*

It seems pretty clear that West Point
and VMI need many more courses in
political science and international and
social problems, and much less emphasis
on close-order drill. A general, destitute
of political awareness, is a little boy
playing with a loaded gun. At a time

27

when the U.S. Army wants  unpre-
cedented peace-time financial and man-
power support from our democracy,
perhaps American voters have the duty
to demand that our Army should
greatly improve its democratic training —
and especially its democratic thinking.
— When a political fact explodes, not
even generals get parachutes.” — Le-
land Stowe in New York Post.
* *

* The great majority of Americans
will strongly sympathize with Justice
Jackson in his impatience over the latest
delays in setting up the International
Military Tribunal to try the principal
Axis war criminals. To be sure, regard-
less of the delay in bringing the top
nazi war criminals to judgment, trials
of the lesser fry at the scene of their
crimes are proceeding in many of the
liberated lands. This is heartening, but
it is not enough. Speedier action in
bringing Goering and the others on the
list of 24 to trial is clearly called for.”
— editorial in Washington Post.

--- Page 31 ---
Personal Data

For reasons of space, the Bulletin is
discontinuing publication: of data on
redeployment. Data on promotions are
incomplete ;, ‘substantial. promotion
quotas in both Military Government
Regiments have been announced which
are not recorded: sirice they have not
yet been forwarded. to the BULLETIN
for. publication..

Dromotions

TO’ COLONEL

Lt Col Lowell J. Chawner, USFET
Lt Col Lawrence Ww. Cramer, USFET

TO CAPTAIN

Ist Lt William R. Conklin, G-5, Seventh Army
lst Lt. James J. Shepard, G-5, Seventh Army

TO FIRST LIEUTENANT
2nd Lt William C. Hunt, Jr.,G-5, Seventh Army

TO TECHNICAL SERGEANT

S/Sgt James M. Bartlett, Third Army
S)Sgt Richard H. Drevers, USFET
S/Sgt Kenneth H. Fisher, USFET
S/Sgt William R. McManus, USFET
William H. Patterson, Third Army
Orville A. Reich, Third Army

S/Sgt John R. Rovienchik, USFET
Ralph R. Tingley, Third Army

S/Sgt Howard E. Walsh, USFET

TO STAFF SERGEANT

Sgt Ethel M. Gill, USFET

T/4 George J. Gorey, USFET
Sgt Jose R. Lopez, USFET

Sgt Abraham Robbins, USFET
Sgt Edmonde R. Tarallo, USFET

28

“TO TECHNICIAN THIRD GRADE

T/4 Robert J: Aschémann, USFET
Ti4 Kenneth N. Bohrn, USFET
Frank R. Charles, Third Army
T/4 John S. Drabik, USFET

Sgt Paul A. Garza, USFET
Robert B. Bruber, Third Army
T/4 James H. Hancock, USFET
7/4 Robert A. Lazarowitz,. USFET
T)4 Wayne G. Markley, USFET
T/4 Curtis J. McCartney, USFET
Sgt Julian A. Niesen, USFET
John M. Niles, Third Army

T/4 Heinz A.: Schober, USFET
Sgt Richard W,-.White, USFET

TO SERGEANT
T/5 Alfred J. Dilley, USFET »

TO TECHNICIAN FOURTH GRADE

Tj5 James H. Bair,’ USFET

Cpl Iona P. Barrett, USFET ©

T/5 Paul R.. Belt, :USFET

TI5 Arthur W. Brandt, USFET

Cpl Kathryn Butler, USFET 4
T/5 Major C. Cheatham, USFET

Cpl Joseph Drent, Third Army _
Cpl Lester R. Fandell, Third Army
T/5 ‘Fred Goldstein, USFET

Cpl John M. Greeley, Third Army
Cpl Adrian R. Hamilton, Third Army
Cpl John E. Jones, USFET

Cpl Edward P. Joyce, Third Army
Cpl Robert R. Mahood, Third Army
T/I5 Kent Mulleneix, USFET

Cpl Walter E. Neff, Third Army
T/5 Donald H. Nyquist, USFET

T/5 Stephan A. Scalia, USFET

Cpl Paul H. Schupbach, Third Army
T/I5 Henry I. Sperling, USFET

T/5 Nathan H. Volkman, USFET

TO TECHNICIAN FIFTH GRADE

Alfred E. Brandt, USFET
Elden A. Brunet, USFET

John N. Cardozo, USFET
Wallis Clark, Third Army
Judson C. Devine, Third Army
Joseph Frischman, Third Army
Tommy L. Hixson, USFET
Otis C. Hurst, USFET

Dean W. Konz, USFET
Eugene J. Koziol, USFET
Alvin E. Old, Third Army
Charles E. O’Rourke, Third Army
Richard O. Quill, USFET
John C. Shaffer, USFET

Pfc
Pfc
Pfc
Pfc
Pfc
Pfc
Pfc
Pfc
Pfc
Pfc
Pfc
Pfc
Pfc
Pfc

--- Page 32 ---
Pfc Alton W. Sims, USFET
Pfc Emma J. Strobel, USFET
Pfc James G. Timlin, USFET
Pfc David Weiner, USFET
Pfc Albert D. Wills, USFET

TO PRIVATE FIRST CLASS

Pvt Ralph W. Ashland, USFET
Pyt Vincent E. Berastequi, USFET
Pvt Wesley E. Bolterman, USFET
Pvt Ruby P. Booe, USFET

Pvt Evelyn A. Christiansen, USFET
Pvt Lowell B. Farrill, USFET

Pvt Bernice G. Green, USFET

Pvt Rachael W. Hanes, USFET

Pvt Eunice R. Haney, USFET

Pvt Forest V. Hastings, Jr., USFET
Pvt Frank P. Hatchman, USFET
Pyt Douglas E. Heilbrun, USFET
Pvt Robert L. James, USFET

Pvt Ethel G. Lovett, USFET

Pyt Margaret S. Morgan, USFET
Pvt Mary Pietrowska, USFET

Pvt Maurice N. Prew, USFET

Pvt Emma S. Shields, USFET

Pyt George T. Tomaski, USFET
Pvt John R. Wartinbee, USFET
Pyt Edmund Wiezbowski, Seventh Army

LEGION OF MERIT

Lt Col Archibald S. Alexander, USFET
Lt Col Leonard T. Scully, USFET

BRONZE STAR MEDAL

Lt Col Ross R. McDonald, USFET

Maj George E. Myers,USFET

Maj Hiram S. Gans, USFET

Capt James C. Mullikin, USFET

ist Lt Herbert W. McFarling, Det G-222
\st Lt Charles J. Futterman, Det G-222
cpl Benjamin Gross, Det G-222

T/5 Henry Feiwel, Det G-222

29

CROIX DE GUERRE
Maj William L. Saunders, USFET

BELGIAN FOURRAGERE (1940)

Sgt Ernst Helling, Det E-203
Sgt Henry G. Schaefer Jr, Det E-203

CERTIFICATE OF MERIT

T/Sgt Robert E. Andreasen, USFET
T/3 Barnett A. Eisenstadt, USFET
T/3 Genevievé C. Keogan, USFET
T/4 Kathryn L. Fonda, USFET
T/4 Curtis J. McCarthey, USFET
T/l4 Robert A. Meagher, USFET
Cpl Erwin Hamburger, USFET
Pfc Willard Hutton, USFET

Mr. Robert E. Asher, UNRRA

Mr. J. A. Edmison, RNRRA

Miss Jessie Fritch, UNRRA

Mr. Benjamin Youngdahl, UNRRA

Rerurneo TO THE hares

Redeployment
in 3rd Mil Gov Regiment

By October 16th, 1066 enlisted men in the
Third Military Government Regiment will have
started home, with further substantial quotas
expected. 189 men left on the 3rd, 256 on the
7th, 200 more on the 11th, and the remaining
100 are on orders for the 16th. This will
clean out all enlisted men with 80 points or
more, as well as all men over 35 years of age
who submitted applications for release from
the service. By the 4th of October, 196 officers
had been redeployed from the Regiment, but
no new quotes had been received: by that date.
Lowest point totals of officers on their way
home as of that date was 101.

--- Page 33 ---
Station List

Military Government Elements

OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR
UNIT LOCATION MILITARY “GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER
Office of

Mil Govt for .
Germany (U.S.) Berlin
Office of

Mil Govt Frankfurt

Office of
Mil Govt
(Western

District) Heidelberg

WESTERN MILITARY DISTRICT

Seventh U.S. Army

Western District

2d Mil Govt Regiment

Hq 2d Mil Govt Regt Bad Homburg

Hq Co Bad Homburg

Sv Co Ober Ursel

1st Maint Plat Zuffenhausen

2d Maint Plat Wetzlar
R&TCo
2d MG Med Det Heidelberg
RR Det (Liaison) Bad Orb

Bad Homburg

LAND WURTTEMBERG & NORTH BADEN.

E-1 Stuttgart

Wiirttemberg Section
CoA Stuttgart

E-1 Stuttgart
F-10 Stuttgart
F-11 Ulm
G-20 Aalen

G-21 Boblingen
G-22 Crailsheim
G-23 Esslingen

G-24 Gmiind

G-25 Géppingen
G-26 Schwabisch Hall
G-27 Heidenheim
G-28 Heilbronn

G-29 Ludwigsburg
G-30 Waiblingen
H-50 Backnang

H-51 Heilbronn

H-52 Kiinzelsau

H-53 Leonberg

H-54 Bad Mergentheim
H-55 Niirtingen

H-56 Ohringen

H-57 Ulm

H-58 Vaihingen

North Baden Section

Co E Durlach
E-7 Karlsruhe

Land Wiirttemberg
& North Baden

Wiirttemberg Section
SK Stuttgart
SK-LK Ulm

LK Aalen

LK Boblingen
LK Crailsheim
LK Esslingen

LK Gmiind

LK Géppingen
LK Hall

LK Heidenheim
LK Heilbronn
LK Ludwigsburg
LK Waiblingen
LK Backnang

SK Heilbronn

LK Kiinzelsau
LK Leonberg

LK Mergentheim
LK Niirtingen
LK Ohringen
Warehouse Opn
LK Vaihingen

North Baden Section

30.

Lt Gen Lucius D. Clay

Maj Gen C L Adcock’

Col M O Edwards

Lt Col N F Hines

1st Lt A W Huck

Capt B Halprin

1st Lt E Thompson
Capt B A Sturdevan
Capt T Candon

Lt Col W H Riheldaffer
Capt F Gladzik

Col W W_ Dawson

Capt O Martin

Col W W Dawson
Lt Col C L Jackson
Lt Col H M Coverly
Maj J K Owen
Capt W A Becker
Lt Col R L Rogers
Maj J 1 Taylor
Capt E T Casey
Maj S R Marsh
Maj W T Neel
Capt F R Edwards
Maj H M Montgomery
Maj J Lindsay
Capt H W Freeman
Capt G D Burchell
Maj M L Hoover
Capt W L Straus
Capt R S Doetz
Capt S L Haber
Capt S A Warren
1st Lt M Korson
Maj J M Gregory
Capt J G Cox

Ist Lt R T Lynch
Col C Lisle

--- Page 34 ---
wae OFFICE ‘OF DIRECTOR OR

UNIT - -. LOCATION MILITARY.;GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER’
F-16 Mannheim SK Mannheim Lt Col R_ S.Smith
F-17 Karlsruhe Pending Disbaridment Col G V Sotong
G-42 Weinheim LK Mannheim Maj B C Barnes
G-43 Heidelberg | SK He'delberg Maj G P Kratz
G-44 Heidelberg LK Heidelberg Capt H D Peterson
G-45 Ettlingen LK Kar!sruhe Capt J W Green
G-46 Pforzheim SK Pforzheim Maj R B Little
G-47 Karlsruhe SK Karlsruhe Maj M S Pullen
H-87 Bruchsal LK Bruchsal Capt A F Thompson
H-88 Foudenheim , Warehouse Opn Maj H E Kring
H-89 Buchen LK Buchen . Capt J A McGuinness
H-90 Mosbach LK Mosbach Maj N O: Moore
H-91 Tauberbischofsheim Tauberbischofsheim Capt-J S Mayer
H-92 Sinsheim |; LK Sinsheim Capt G O Withey
1-137 Edingen ‘|: Warehouse.Opn ° Capt R L Shadwick
1-154 Pforzheim LK Pforzheim Ist Lt J ‘R Bolin

E-5 Wiesbaden
Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden
Co D Weilburg
E-5 Wiesbaden
E-6 Frankfurt
F-15 Wiesbaden
G-41 Wetzlar .
H-76 Biedenkopf
H-77 Dillenburg
H-78 Gelnhausen
H-79 Hanau
H-80 Limburg
H-81 Hofheim
H-82 Weilburg .
H-83 Riidesheim
H-84 Schliichtern
H-85 Idestein
H-86 Bad Homburg
1-149 Usingen
Regierungsbezirk Kassel
Co C Kirchain- |
E-2 Marburg
E-4 Kassel”
F-14 Kassel
G-38 Fritzlar
G-39 Marburg
G-40 Fulda:
G-48 Korbach
H-65 Eschwege
H-66 Frankenberg
H-67 Hersfeld
H-68 Hofgeismar’
H-69 Hiinfeld
H-70 Melsungen
H-71 Rotenburg
H-72 Kassel.
RB Hessen
Co B Darmstadt
E-3 Darmstadt:

LAND GREAT HESSEN

F-12 Darmstadt:
F-13 Offenbach
G31 Beénsheim

G-3

2 Biidingen

Land Great Hesse

RB Wiesbaden

SK Frankfurt

SK Wiesbaden

LK Wetzlar

LK Biedenkopf

LK Dillkreis

LK Gelnhausen
SK-LK Hanau

LK Limburg

LK Maintaunuskreis
LK Oberlahnkreis
LK Rheingaukreis
LK Schliichtern

LK Untertaunuskreis
LK Obertaununskreis
LK Usingen

Pending disbandment
RB Kassel

SK-LK Kassel

LK Fritzlar-Homberg
SK LK Marburg
SK-LK Fulda .

LK Waldeck

LK Eschwege

LK Frankenberg

LK Hersfeld ;

LK Hofgeismar

LK Hiinfeld

LK Melsungen

LK Rotenburg
Warehouse Opn

RB Hessen

SK Darmstadt
SK Offenbach
LK Bergstrassée
LK Biidingen

34

Col J R Newman

Capt J L Savannah ©
Col J R Newman
Lt Col R K Phelps
Maj F A Sansome
Lt Col E M'Lee
Capt J C Nelson
Maj D ‘B' Bernstein
Maj ‘ME ‘Chotas
Maj T Turner. Jr
Capt -E F Duffy.
Capt’F S Percy Jr
Ist Lt B S Beaudway
Maj J-G Gavin
Capt A H Larkins
Capt A S Harlingen
Capt M M Campbell
Capt A L Yakoubian

Ist Lt JF. Owen

Cot C T.Johnson

Lt Col A’ Skarry

Maj R. Bard

Maj RA Gish

Lt Cot T-A Brown
Capt E J Dikeman
Maj J R Chambliss
Capt A -W Moore
Capt L E Morris

Capt G S' Iredell

Ist Lt S'B Borda
Capt H H Liebhafsky
Capt T T Turnbull Jr «
Ist Lt P J. Zeller

Capt J R Néwell- -

1st Lt A‘L Husted, Jr (actg)

Lt Col W.T Burt’ (actg).
Lt Col LG Kelly g
Maj C’G Martins (actgy
Capt A -C Leggatt F
Capt L S:LaPfade

—~

--- Page 35 ---
‘ OFFICE OF. - DIRECTOR OR

UNIT .- LOCATION MILITARY: GOVERNMENT. : COMMANDING. OFFICER:
G-33, Dieburg LK Dieburg Maj E T-.Cusiek: -
G-34 Friedberg LK Friedberg Maj R J Willard
G-35 Giessen SK Giessen 5 Capt J S Chapin
G-36 Gross Gerau LK Gross. .Gerau ' Capt R L-Patten
H-59 Alsfeld. LK Alsfeld Capt W-P. Burkes
H-60 Erbach LK Erbach : Capt L A. Claff
H-62 Lauterbach LK Lauterbach Capt H Nickelsberg

BREMEN Sub-District a wba
E2C2 ,, Bremen Bremen Sub-District Lt Col B C Welker
G1C2 Wesermiinde ‘ SK Bremerhaven ° . Lt Col L S Diggs
H4C2 Osterholz-Scharmbeck LK Osterholz a Maj. J..R. Reed
1OC2 Wesermiinde. . - LK Weserimniinde Capt J'F Flynn
T11C2 Brake LK Wesermarsch Capt M L Krauss
112C2 Nordenham GM Nordenham._ Capt GR Zeek ae

EASTERN MILITARY DISTRICT
Third U.S. Army

Office of ,

Mil Govt for’
Bavaria ~Miinchen

Hq 3d Mil Govt. Regt Augsburg
Hq Co Augsburg |:

Sv Co Augsburg

Ist Maint Plat .. Augsburg.’

2d Maint Plat; Uttenreuth

3d Maint Plat . Straubing...

R & T Co Augsburg -
3d MG Med Det Miinchen:

3d MG Med Sec Augsburg

LAND BAYERN -

E-201 ‘Miinchen
Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken

CoA Ochsenfurt

E-202 Wiirzburg

F-210 Wirzburg~

G-220 Aschaffenburg

G-221 Schweinfurt — .

H-250 Bad: Kissingen.

H-251 Kitzingen

1-330 Alzenau

1-331 Briickenau ©

1-332 Ebern

1-333 Gemiinden

1-334 Gerolzhofen

1-335... -; Hammelburg

1-336 Hassfurt «

1-337 Hofheim

1-338 Karlstadt

1-339 Konigshofen

1-340 Lohr

1-341 .Marktheidenfeld .

1-342 Melirichstadt -

1-343 Miltenberg

1-344... Bad: Neustadt

1-345 Obernburg -

1-346 Ochsenfurt

Eastern District, ,

3d Mil Govt’ Regt

Land Bayern ~

RB Mainfranken
SK-LK Wiirzburg
SK-LK Aschaffenburg
SK-LK Schweinfurt
LK Kissingen:' \* *
LK Kitzingen

LK Alzenau

LK Briickenaw’

LK Ebern..’

LK Gemiinden

LK Gerolzhofen

LK Hammelburg
LK Hassfurt

LK Hofheim

LK Karlstadt :
LK K6nigshofen

LK Lohr

LK Marktheidenfeld
LK Mellrichstadt :
LK Miltenberg -

LK Neustadt, a. d. Salle
LK Obernburg »
LK Ochsenfurt

32

Col R L Dalferes:

Col G D Crawwford
Ist Lt Wm Irwin
Capt J O'Malley
Capt J O’Malley -
Ist Lt C Casper

1st Lt B Boyle

Ist Lt T J. May

Lt Col C.Shields
Capt H S$ Price

Col RL. Dalferes

lst Lt H A Lenert
Lt Col M E-Henderson
Maj J B Bradford
Maj C M Emerick
Maj A S Grove
Capt M A Potter
Capt J B Lynn
Maj E E Shovea::
Capt H B Clark Jr
Capt S L Tulin
Capt K N Galloway
Capt W..J-Tonkin
Capt E H Emery
Capt T F. Griffen
Capt W -Hitt

Ist Lt W E Brayden
Capt A W Peterson
Capt Elmer E Kelly
Capt M B Voorhees
Maj C. A Hamlin
Capt D J Huffman
Ist Lt E.F Warnke
Capt B H..Logan
Capt H A Storm:

--- Page 36 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

COMMANDING: OFFICER

RB Ober & Mittelfranken
SK-LK Niirnberg

SK-LK Ansbach ~

SK-LK Firth

LK Dinkelsbiihl

LK Eichstadt

LK Feuchtwangen

LK Gunzenhausen

LK Hersbruck

LK Hilpoltstein

LK Weissenburg

LK Rothenburg

LK Schwalbach

LK Scheinfeld

LK Uffenheim

LK Lauf

LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch

ad
SK-LK Bamberg
SK-LK Bayreuth
LK Erlangen
SK-LK Coburg
LK Kronach
SK-LK Hof
LK Ebermannstadt
LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
LK Kulmbach
LK Pegnitz
LK Minchberg
LK Lichtenfels
LK Rehau
LK Wunseidel
LK Forcheim
LK Naila
LK Stadtsteinach

RB Niederbayern & Oberpfalz
SK-LK Regensburg

SK Weiden & '

LK Neustadt a. d. Wald
SK-LK Amberg

LK Burglengenfeld

LK Parsberg

LK Tirschenreuth

LK Neunburg vorm Wald
LK Eschenbach i. d.. Opf.
LK Kemnath

LK Nabburg

LK Oberviechtach

LK Riedenderg

LK Vohenstrauss

LK Roding

LK Waldmiinchen

LK Beilngries

LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg

SK-LK Passau |
LK Cham

UNIT: - LOCATION
Regierungsbezirk Ober & Mittelfranken
Co C Ansbach..
E-203 Ansbach
F-211 Nirnberg
G-228 Ansbach
G-229 Firth +
H-261 Dinkelsbiihl |
H-262 Eichstadt.
H-263 Feuchtwangen
H-264 Gunzenhausen,
H-265 Hersbruck
H-266 Hilpoltstein
H-267 Weissenburg
H-268 Rothenburg
H-269 Schwalbach
H-270 Scheinfeld
H-271 Windsheim
H-272 Lauf
H-273 Neustadt a. d. Aisch
CoB Bamberg
G-222 Bamberg
G-223 Bayreuth
G-224 Erlangen
G-225 Coburg
G-226 Kronach
G-227 Hof
H-252 Ebermamnstadt
H-253 Hochstadt
H-254 Kulmbach
H-255 Pegnitz
H-256 Munchberg
G-247 Lichtenfels
H-258 Rehau :
H-259 Wunseidel
H 260 Forcheim
1-347 Naila
1-348 Stadtsteinach
Regierungbezirk Niederbayern & Oberpfalz
Co D Regensburg
E-204 Regensburg |:
F-212 Regensburg
G-230 Weiden
H-274 Amberg
H-275 Burglengenfeld
H-276 Parsberg
H-277 Tirschenreuth
H-278 Neunburg °
H-279 Eschenbach
1-349 Kemnath
1-350 Nabburg
1-351 Oberviechtach
1-352 Riedenberg
1-353 Vohenstrauss
1-354 Roding
1-355 Waldmiinchen
1-356 Beilngries
1-357 Neumarkt
1-358 Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Co H Regensburg
G-243 Passau
G-244 Cham
G-245 Landshut

SK-LK Landshut

33

Ist Lt G N Hultzen
Col E M Haight

Col C H Andrews
Maj W R Whitaker
Capt J D Cofer
Maj Hall o

Maj W T Staats
Capt C E Wilhelm |
Maj H W Zurn

Maj F M: Dunbaugh
Maj H T Lund
Maj W S Bailey
Capt R C Anderson
Capt R H Stringer
Maj H C Kauffmann
Capt R E Stringer
Capt E N Humphrey
Maj H L Woodall
Capt W H Cox

Maj J A Watkins
Lt Col C J Reilly
Lt Col H Hargrave
Maj H Lockland

Lt Col -D Paulette
Maj A R Giroux
Capt W_H Hobbs
Maj P E Bruehl
Maj P B Lamson
Maj M F Skinner
Maj A C Abbott
Maj J R Case

Capt R H Dodds
Capt D H Alexander
Lt Col F Robie
Capt H W Newell
Capt J R Golden

Capt V A Grasso
Lt Col Hasting
Lt Col S S Speaks

Capt R A Rosan
Maj Mattox

Capt E Flether.

Maj H J Mrachek
Capt F P Murray
Maj J J Egan

Capt W R Baylies
Capt W G Montpas
Capt G Doyle

Capt R A Berry
Capt C V Hansen
Ist Lt T D_ Collins
Capt C R Buchheit
Capt J E Hudson
Capt J J Mallon
Ist Lt W N Blanton
Capt S E Prall

Ist Lt O G Savelli
Lt Col F W Hanger
Maj C E McDaniel
Capt A J Wann

--- Page 37 ---
UNIT... / LOCATION: .

OFFICE OF

MILITARY. GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER.

G-246 Straubing
H-301 Deggendorf :
H-302 Eggenfelden .
H-303 Grafenau
H-304 Kelheim
H-305 Landau ,
H-306 Pfarrkirchen
H-307 Zweisel
H-308 Vilshofen
H-309 Vilsiburg
H-310 Freyung
1-375 Bogen

1-377 Dingolfing
1-378 Griesbach ©
1-380 Mainburg
1-381 Mallersdorf
1-382 Rottenburg
1-383 Viechtach
1-385 Wegscheid

Regierunigsbezirk Oberbayern

Co F Miinchen
E-205 Miinchen
F-213 Miinchen
G-236 Partenkirchen
G-237 Ingolstadt
G-238 Miinchen
H-286 Firstenfeldbruck
H-287 Landsberg
H-288 Pfaffenhofen,
H-289 Starnberg
H-290 Weilheim
H-291 Wolfratshausen

1-362 Aichach

1-364 Schrobenhausen

1-365 Miinchen

1-367 Dachau

1-368 Schéngau
Co E’ Wasserburg
G-231 Freising
G-232 Miesbach
G-233, Traunstein
G-234 Altotting
G-235 Rosenheim
H-280 Erding
H-281 Laufen
H-282 Miihidorf
H-283 Wasserburg
H-284 Bad Tolz
H-285 Aibling
H-311 Berchtesgaden

1-361 Ebersberg

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

CoG Ziemetshausen
E-206 Augsburg
F-214 Augsburg
G-239 Dillingen
G-240 Neu Ulm
G-241 Sonthofen
G-242 Kempten
H-292 Donauworth
H-293 Giinzberg

SK-LK Straubing
LK Deggendorf

LK Eggenfelden

LK Grafenau

LK Kelheim ;
LK Landau. a. d. Isar
LK Pfarrkirchen
LK Regen

LK Vilshofen

LK. Vilsiburg

LK Wolfstein

LK Bogen

LK Dingolfing

LK Griesbach °

LK Mainburg

LK Mallersdorf
LK Rottenburg
LK Viechtach

“LK Wegscheid

RB Oberbayern

SK-LS Miinchen

LK Garmisch:Partenkirchen
SK-LK Ingolstadt °

LK Miinchen

’ LK Firstenfeldbriick

LK Landsberg

LK Pfaffenhofen
LK Starnberg

LK Weilheim

LK Wolfratshausen
LK Aichach

LK Schrobenhausen
Bavarian Supply
LK Dachau

LK Schéngau

LK Freising

LK Miesbach

LK Traunstein

LK Altotting
SK-LK Rosenheim
LK Erding

LK Laufen

LK Miihldorf

LK Wasserburg
LK Tolz

LK Aibling

LK Berchtersgaden
LK Ebersberg

RB Schwaben
SK-LK Augsburg
LK Dillingen

LK Neu Ulm

LK Sonthofen
SK-LK Kempten
LK Donauwéorth
LK Ginzberg

34

Maj.H T. Olsen. wey
Capt L C Smallenberger
Capt E W. Manning
Capt W J-Fitzpatrick '
Capt O DeBogdan

Maj R M Stribling
Capt W D Baird’

Capt A R ‘Sphar
Capt F I Bierre
Capt rs W. Fleshman
Capt W Douglass
Capt A.G Albert
Capt B.E Reichhardt
Capt A.J. Gallant
Capt W. Wickersham
Capt S R.Jacobs
Capt E A Russo
Capt J F Vaile
Capt H Walter

Ist Lt J MacDonough
Lt Col JW Hensel
Lt Col E Keller Jr
Maj C H :Heyl: (actg)
Capt L H Norins
Maj M T..Mawrence
Capt J J McBride
Capt C A Rein
Capt C A Sloat
Capt M Shellenberger *
Maj E C: Wills ~
Capt C H Bischoff
Capt L R Daaxx
Capt R G Hill Jr
Capt F S Franke

Ist Lt ‘VA Burke
Capt C E Carlsen
Capt J T Collier
Capt A G Snow
Maj L L: Haupt

Capt F'L Tracy

Capt R L Montague
Maj R G MacDonald
Capt H J Bierman
Capt S L Jones Jr
Maj C E Vickerman
Capt'M J Groves
Maj J Letteriello
Maj E'J Newmeyer
Capt M E DiPietro
Capt G E Horwath

Ist Lt O Meirhenry
Lt Col R L Hiles
Lt Col R A Norton
Maj C F Baker
Maj. J, A Blakemore
Maj A B Ebbers
Ist Lt B M Ziegler
Maj H L Snapp
Capt J G Horrell

--- Page 38 ---
OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

COMMANDING OFFICER

Ist Lt J O Renalds
Maj R F Wagner
Maj E C Bunker
Capt W _H Oswalt
Capt S H Brown
Capt T R Schweer
Capt W D Ayers
Capt W S Reed
Maj E M Ross
Capt R E Hale
Maj P S Webb
Ist Lt L E Smith

UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT

H-294 Markt Oberdorf LK Mart Oberdorf
H-295 Memmingen LK Memmingen
H-296 Mindelheim LK Mindelheim
H-297 Neuberg LK Neuberg a. d. Donau
H-298 Nordlingen LK Nordlingen
H-299 Fiissen LK Fiissen
H-300 Krumbach LK Krumbach

1-369 Illertissen LK Illertissen

1-370 Kaufbeuren LK Kaufbeuren

1-372 Wertingen ‘ LK Wertingen
1-373 Friedberg LK Friedberg

1-374 Schwabmiinchen LK Schwabmiinchen

U.S. MILITARY DISTRICT — BERLIN

Office of
Mil Govt .
(Berlin) US Berlin District

Col F L Howley

Detachments Disbanded:
2d Mil Govt Regt:

Co A: 1-130, 1-131, 1-132, 1-133, I-134,
1-135, 1-136, 1-156, 1-157, 1-158,
1-162.

Co B: G-37, H-61, H-64, 1-138, 1-139, 1-140
1-141, 1-155, 1-160.

Co C: 1-142, 1-143.

Co D: 1-145, 1-146, 1-147.

3d Mil Govt Regt:

Co H: 1-376, 1-379.

35

--- Page 39 ---
