--- Page 2 ---
No. 16 — 10 November 1945

Military Government

Weekly
Information Bulletin

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
WESTERN MILITARY DISTRICT
GREAT HESSE, NORTH WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

23 OCTOBER 1945

BRITISH ZONE

7
VO feritzuat

Nis Ka OOS acramet

oa ~
ZiEGeN- N
HAIN ( HERSFELO

RUSSIAN

ZONE

2
FRENCH
ws

LEGEND

REO REGIERUNGSBEZIRKE AND

LANDESBEZIRK BADEN f

BLACK — LANOKREISE AND STADTKREISE ‘

TATISTICS SECTION

SOURCE OMG-RBi BRANCH J C GEN STAFF USFET

--- Page 4 ---
No. 146 — 10 NOVEMBER 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U.S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---
CONTENTS.

PAGE

Military Government Letters and Instructions Issued this Week 3

Editorial © 2. ew 4
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY... ......2.2. ~=5
Coal. 2 ee 5
Occupation Troops and Youth Activities . . . . . . 17
GENERAL............. 4... . 20
Personnel Qualifications for Civilian Jobs . . . . . . 20
Black Market Transport. . 2. ee ee ee ee
Book-Burnings Not Authorized . . . ...... 21
GERMAN REACTIONS’ ........... 22
The German Press . . . . . «1 1 ee ee te 22

The Necessity forLaw No.8. 2. 2... 1 1 ww. 2B-
VOICES OF EXPERIENCE ......... 25
Housing of Displaced Persons. . . . . . . . . « 25
Civil Responsibilities for Allocation . . . . . . . . 26
Labor Unions in Kassel . . . . . . 1 sw ww. 26
PRESS COMMENTS ...... 2 6 1 ee eee 27
Eisenhower Report in News Spotlight . . . . . . . 27
Navy Day Speech . . 2 we ee ee ee ee 28
Eastofthe Elbe. . 2... 1 1 ee ee ee 29
“Soviet and French Reaction. . . . . 2... 29
Random Comments . . 2... ee ee 29
Station List 2. 6. ee ee ee ee ee eB

--- Page 6 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT LETTERS AND
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED DURING THE WEEK

Amendments to the Directive te Commanding Generals, Military
Districts, dated 7 July 1945, Subject: Administration of Military
Government in the U. S. Zone of Germany.

Control Council Laws Nos..4 and 5 issued as
annexes "J-4" and "J-5" of Section XXIV .

Amendment to Part 5 (Wages, Hours and Labor
Standards) of Section XV (Manpower), including
Control Council Directive No. 14 (Directive on
Wage Policy) .

Control Council Proclamations Nos. 1 and 2 issued
as annexes “I-2" and "I-3" of Section XXIV .

Amendment to Part 1 (Education) of Section VII
(Education and Religious Affairs)

Amendment to Paragraph 153 (Pay of Prisoners of War), "Hand-
book, Governing Policy and Procedure for the Military Occupa-
tion of Germany” : Soo Loe .

Amendment to Nationality Act of 1940 .
Identification and Documentation of Foreigners in Germany .
Property Control Accounting

Regional Government Co-ordinating Office

Instructions on Posting of Official Notice to Defendants (at the
Nurnberg trials)

Increase of Income Tax, Wage Tax and Corporation Tax

Patent Matters and Patent Practice .

Instructions to Military Government Finance Officers No. 2 and
No.3.

Privileges of Soviet Liaison Officers in Displaced Persons Camps
Other Than Wholly Soviet

1 November 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

31 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

29 October 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

5 November 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

5 November 1945

3 November 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

5 November 1945 (file
AG 322.01 GEC-AGO)

2 November 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

2 November 1945 (file
AG 322 GEC-AGO)

31 October 1945 (file
GEC 415)

30 October 1945 (file
AG 012 GEC-AGO)

29 October 1945 (file
GEC 072)

22 October 1945 (file
GEC 100 [Germany])

. 5 November 1945 (file

AG 091.713GEC-AGO)

--- Page 7 ---
AN EDITORIAL FROM "THE BAVARIAN"

In its issue of the 23rd of October, the BAVARIAN, weekly paper published by the
Third Military Government Regiment, printed the editorial- which is reproduced below,
in its entirety: .

Military Government policy in American-occupied Germany has frequently
been the target of severe criticism by both on-the-scene and off-the-scene
observers ever since the spearhead elements nailed up their Military Govern-
ment shingies and commenced local government. administration in the first
German towns and cities captured by American troops.

The initial period of administering law and order was one of varied pro-
blems, many of which could not be foreseen when the original plans, organiza-
tion and policy for the occupation of Germany were agreed upon. However, the
determined manner in which Military Government officials and personnel
plunged into the tremendous task ahead of them certainly left no doubt in
anyone’s mind as to their deep concern toward achieving the basic aims of
the occupation. There were days, weeks, and months of endless work. There
have been inconceivable obstacles to be faced and overcome. The nature of
these problems, and the methods employed in solving them has been in most
cases, far beyond the comprehension of persons whose work ‘has not been
directly related with military government.

It is not to be denied that mistakes have been made. But when critics
play up a few frailties in administration as an overall indication of in-
consistency in military government policy and motives in Germany, it is in
direct contrast to the splendid results which have been achieved. Such criticism
utterly disregards the conscientious efforts and convictions of all those who
have been responsible for conducting Civil Affairs operations on a_ scale
without precedent in military annals.

We.in Military Government know ful! well the importance of our mission
in Germany. In the early days of the occupation, the lessons learned provided
a helpful supplement for future action. The Tripartite Meeting at Potsdam
settled many controversial issues as to the policy and aims of governing the
defeated Germans, after which General Eisenhower himself issued the plans
for the occupation to the German people in his message on August 6.

The definite objectives of .the occupation policy must and are being
attained with the least possible delay. Anyone with even the faintest idea of
the groggy, beaten, mutilated, disorganized spectacle that was Germany after
VE-Day would know it wasn’t a job that could be completed overnight.
Progress relied considerably on the ability of the German people themselves
to emerge from the chaos and provide momentum to the wheels of political,
economic and domestic reconstruction which Military Government set in motion.

If there is anyone in Military Government today who does not whole-
heartedly and conscientiously believe in the promulgation and efficient fulfill-
ment of the responsibilities assigned to him as a representative of our govern-
ment and our peopie back home, then he does not belong in Military Gov-
ernment. Long and tedious work has gone into the successful efforts to in
augurate and maintain an orderly and well-managed government in Bavaria
and other allocated American occupied sections of Germany. Because we
have accomplished so much, it is essential that we continue to fulfill our
present responsibilities in Military Government.

We who recognize those responsibilities as an obligation and a duty,
must and shall continue to prove mistaken those critics who have been

attacking our motives with accusations that we don’t believe in the work we
are doing.

Then, too, there is also the old saying, "If the shoe fits, wear it.’

--- Page 8 ---
Highlights of Pp olicy

THE reconstruction of European
economy, shattered and largely disinte-
grated after six years of total war, is
today a jig-saw puzzle with perhaps
the key piece that which represents the
black diamond, coal. Until that piece
has been set into position all the other
phases of European -life must remain
dislocated and unstable, for coal re-
presents the vital element without which
only a primitive economy is possible.

Twentieth Century life in Europe has
been so closely integrated with machine
power, so tightly geared to industrial
production that the destruction of that
power, the paralysis of that production,
inevitably affects virtually every aspect
of the daily lives of the people of
Europe.

Industrial production is based upon
machine power; machine power is
based upon fuel; and the most com-
mon, the most versatile, and the most
necessary source of that fuel is coal.
Electricity, gas, and water, the most
vital of public utilities require coal for
their production or preparation for
consumer use. Coal drives the machines
which convert wheat to flour, and
fires the ovens which bake that flour
into bread. Coal is needed to produce
the finished lumber, the bricks, the
glass, the roofing for the repair of
homes. Above all, the distribution of
food, of manufactured articles, of raw
materials, of coal itself is dependent
upon transportation, the greatest
proportion of which, rail transport, is
coal-driven. In brief, a stable and ba-

COAL

A Black Diamond is the Keystone of
Germany’s Efforts to Survive

anced economy, the prerequisite of
peace, can be achieved only when
sufficient coal is available to power
the machines on which that economy
is built.

Coal represents at this time perhaps
the most perplexing problem faced by
the administrators of military govern-
ment in Germany, for the vast, majority
of all other problems in one way or
another are affected by the coal
situation. Were more coal available,
food stringencies could be eased by
increased production of processed.
foods. The solution to the crucial -
housing problem might also be easier
were more coal available to produce
vital construction material.

The problem is further complicated
by international considerations, for the
war which Germany brought upon
Europe wreaked havoc with the
economy of all other European nations
as well as that of Germany itself. The
countries of western Europe, thoroughly
exploited in the course of German
occupation, are also in urgent need of
reconstruction and rehabilitation and
their requirements represent an added
complication.

GERMANY: GREATEST CONTINENTAL
COAL PRODUCER

In order to obtain a picture of the

coal situation in western Europe at

--- Page 9 ---
this time, it is necessary to have an
understanding of pre-war coal condi-
tions. In 1938, Germany was far and
away the largest coal producing nation
on the European Continent, and after
the United States and the British Isles,
the world’s third largest producer.

Its production of bituminous coal alone ©

‘was more than double that-of France,
Belgium, and Holland combined. In addi-
tion, Germany in 1935 mined 72 per
cent of the world’s brown coal pro-
duction. Germany thus was able in 1938
to. export more than 32 million metric
tons of coal, while in the same year
France was importing almost 21 million
tons.

German Coal Production is at Low
Ebb, Limited by Manpower Shortages
-- and Outmoded Equipment

In- 1938, therefore, when German
coal production was: able to support
a thriving industrial economy and a
vast mechanized war machine which

was constantly expanding, it could

‘still export more than one-sixth of its
hard coal production.- Today that pro-
duction has collapsed, and the demands
placed upon Germany for coal to
provide for the military needs of the
four occupying powers, for export to
thé’ liberated nations, and for the
minimum essential civilian requirements
in Germany have thus far proved too
great.

The major problem can actually be
broken down into three sub-problems.
First, the production of coal must be
increased. Second, coal produced must
be so allocated as to yield maximum
results. Third, transportation must be
rehablilitated and increased to insure a
constant movement from the mines.to
the consumers.

The problem of increasing German
coal. production is primarily a French

and British responsibility, for the major
coal producing areas of Germany,
which are presently supplying coal to
the United States Zone, lie in the French
and British occupation zones. In 1938,
for example, the Ruhr and Aachen coal
fields (British Zone) produced ap-
proximately 72 per cent of the total
German hard coal production, and the
Saar mines (French Zone) produced
another eight per cent. As for brown
coal, the only major field in the western
zones lies near Cologne (British Zone)
and produced in 1938 approximately 21
per cent of the German coal total.
Although the U.S. Zone possesses brown
coal deposits in Great Hesse and in
Bavaria, and some hard coal is also
mined in Bavaria, in terms of German
total production, pre-war production
figures from the American Zone were
insignificant.

Net pithead production of hard coal
in the three occupation zones of
Western Germany during Septerhber,
though representing a considerable in-
crease over July production, was only
approximately 27 per cent of - the
average monthly production during
1938. Brown coal production had, at
the same time, risen to about 55 per
cent of the 1938 monthly average. The
greater increase in brown coal pro-
duction is due primarily to the fact that
brown coal mines, lying close to the
earth’s surface, can be worked by open-
pit methods which are much simpler
to operate.

MINE RECRUITMENT DRIVE
LAUNCHED

The greatest limiting factor in coal
production at present is that of man-
power. The war actually caused re-
latively little destruction of the German
mines, but the liberation of the foreign
workers, who had formed the largest
proportion of mine employees, brought
pit production almost to a standstill in

--- Page 10 ---
Photos by U.S. Army Signal Lorps

Brown coal, when mined, has a high moisture content and deteriorates rapidly unless processed.
Therefore, substantial transportation costs for raw brown coal cannot be justified. Approximately 50 per
cent of total output is used in the raw by power plants contiguous to the mines. Of the total output,
24 per cent is used to process the remaining 26 per cent, which is accomplished by dehydration in high-
pressure hydraulic presses. Eighty-five per cent of all brown coal mines are open-cut.

7

--- Page 11 ---
April and May. It is estimated that be-
fore the war ended, approximately 60
per cent of the 400,000 workers
employed in the hard coal mines of
Western Germany were foreign ”slave”
laborers, and upon their liberation it
became apparent that immediate
attention had to be given to the replace-
ment of this force by German labor.
Accordingly, high priority was given to
the discharge of experienced miners
from the German prisoners of war in
Allied hands. In addition, an intensive
recruiting drive for miners was initiated
by Military Government authorities
through the local German labor offices.

Despite intensive procurement efforts,
rapid amelioration of the manpower
shortages is difficult, for the native
labor force was widely scattered during
the war, and many former workers
were killed or disabled.

Considerable difficulty has been en-
countered in overcoming the obvious
reluctance of German labor to go into
the mines. Emergency steps to increase
incentive were required, and as early
as July 4th SHAEF authorized the in-
crease of food rations for miners to
3,000 calories per day for surface wor-
kers and 3,400 for underground wor-
kers as compared with the daily ration
of approximately 1,500 calories for the
normal civilian consumer. Further steps
were necessary, however, and on August
12th USFET authorized the increase of
food rations to 3,600 and 4,000 calories
if necessary. Furthermore, the cable to
both the Western and Eastern Military
Districts, demanding immediate increase
in production of coal in the U.S. Zone
to the highest possible figure, stated:
*To insure this production, maximum
assistance will be given the mines in
securing of sufficient rations and
clothes for miners ... in obtaining ad-
ditional miners, (and the)  trans-
portation of miners to and from work.”
It further authorized the use of Ameri-

can military stocks to supplement
civilian stocks when necessary, and
preferential issue of clothing and other
items to stimulate production”.

In the British-operated Ruhr mines,
and in the French Saar mines, additional
incentive has been granted miners by
allowing them a small percentage of
their production for their own use.

By the end of August, these incentives
and the accelerated labor drive had
brought approximately 50 per cent of
the pre-war mine manpower total back
to work. The daily production of that
labor was, however, only about one-
half that of the pre-war miners. By
simple arithmetic, one-half the required
labor, producing at one-half the pre-
war rate would result in only 25 per
cent maximum production, a figure
which almost exactly coincides with the
current 27 per cent production rate in
the hard coal mines of Western Ger-
many.

EQUIPMENT OBSOLETE

Even at the peak of German hard-
coal production, German uriderground
mines had not been mechanized to the
degree attained in either Britain or the
United States. Today, German mine
machinery is outmoded, and war-time
depreciation has rendered much of this
machinery inadequate. Consequently,
mechanical acceleration of coal pro-
duction is virtually impossible as the
mines are neither adapted to new min-
ing procedures, nor is the present
machinery capable of withstanding in-
creased strain. Furthermore, even were
modern machinery available, experi-
enced and skilled technicians required to
operate it could not immediately be
found in the current mine labor force.

A possibly depressing factor on the
coal production rate may lie in the fact
that, at present production rates, only
a smail proportion of that production
is allocated for German civilian use.
Since the German miner knows that the
largest part of the coal he mines is

--- Page 12 ---
going either to the military forces of
the four occupying powers or is being
exported to. the liberated nations, he
tends to be reluctant to exert himself.
The answer to this may lie in the reali-
zation that once these prior claims are
met, any increase in production will be
solely. for German benefit.

The graph reproduced below gives
a clear picture of the extent and
seriousness of- the coal production
problem. In the course of less than one
year, from D-Day in June 1944 to April
1945, production fell from over
12,000,000 metric tons to slightly less
than 1,000,000 tons per month. Since
in September, only 2,060,000 metric
tons (slightly more than 67 per cent)
V-E Day, production has almost tripled,
but there is still an extremely long road
to go before pre-war production is
approached.

It must be emphasized in discussing
net pit production of coal, that more
than 22 per cent of the Ruhr coal pro-
duction, for example, is consumed in
the mine operations, and another ten
per cent is lost in the conversion of
that coal to coke and briquettes. Thus,
of the 2,978,142 metric tons of net pit
production in the Ruhr hard coal mines

HARD COAL

MILLION METRIC
TONS

PRODUCTION
(NET PITHEAD BASIS)

of net merchantable coal, coke, and
patent fuel were produced. In brown
coal production, due to the inferior
quality of the coal, the loss is consider-
ably greater. Of the August 1945 brown
coal production in the western zones,
(1,952,000 metric tons), only 26. per
cent (515,000 tons) of processed solid
fuels were produced.

Sharing the limited supply and salisfy-
ing minimum requirements involves
Quadripartite Action.

The second of the coal sub-problems
is that of coal allocation. It is, in effect,
a matter of quadripartite rationing.
Allocations can be classified in four
categories. Top priority goes to the
coal requirements of the military forces
and the railroads of the four occupying
powers. Whén those requirements have
been satisfied, the remaining unallo-
cated coal must be divided between
the liberated Western European coun-
tries and the essential civilian needs of
the German economy.

Allocations are made monthly by
the. Fuels committee of the Economic

IN WESTERN GERMANY

MILLION METRIC
TONS

18 15

2h 12
SX
CXS
<2
CKO \

EKKO 06;

§ Mecesastacseecetacancceterets SO ESTIMATED PRODUCTION NECESSARY TO A°
DOS BRITISH” ZONE RRM, EXPORT 10 MILLION TONS BY ENDOF = /
Sosecee QSKE YEAR P

€ KK RRRORRII OK eS —}6

3 wocsonaatesscatetaneseseconesenntesenen Casenen :

o,

fe] WO. OOOO. ras x °

Du FMAM J 30 ASOND JF MAMVI2ASON D
1944 1945

--- Page 13 ---
Directorate of the Allied Control Auth-
ority. Each of the occupying authorities
submits its estimated requirements, both
military and civilian, and the quadri-
partite Technical Staff of the Fuels
Committee, on the basis of the estima-
ted available coal production and trans-
portation for ail four zones, then makes
its allocations. In addition, directives
issued by the governments of the
United States, France, and the United
Kingdom to their respective zone com-
manders established a requirement that
10,000,000 tons of coal be exported
from the three zones to the liberated
countries by the end of the calendar
year, and that an additional 15,000,000
tons be exported to those nations in
the first four months of 1946.

An analysis of the estimated coal re-
quirements for November for the U.S.
Zones of Germany and Austria (only
part of the Austrian requirements are
met from German coal supplies) and
the actual November allocations reveals
the extent to which the estimated re-
quirements are met.

NOVEMBER COAL REQUIREMENTS

(U. S. ZONE)
Per Cent
Military (Germany): 539,942 27.2
Railways 278,835 14.0
Inland Waterways 47,337 2.5
Bremen Port Opns 20,500 1.0-
Troops, Germany 193,270 9.7
U.S. Zone, ‘Austria “  -94,249* 47
Essential Civilian Use 1,353,539 68.1
TOTAL 1,987,723 100

NOVEMBER COAL ALLOCATIONS

(U. S. ZONE)

: Per Cent
Military (Germany): 540,200 46.7
Railways 279,000 24.2
Inland Waterways 47,400 41
Bremen Port Opns 20,500 1.7
Troops, Germany 193,300 16.7
U.S. Zone, Austria 60,000* 5.2
Essential Civilian Use 549,500 48.1

TOTAL 1,149,700 100

* Austria figures represent combined mili-
tary and essential civilian use rategories.

10

Our Efforts to beat the Swords into
Ploughshares require the Industrial
Energy which only Coal can Provide.

It is obvious from the above, that
when allocations do not equal the sub-
mitted requirements, it is the essentiai
civilian use category which suffers the
loss. Thus, where the military require-
ments are met with a 100 per cent allo-
cation, the allocations for essential
German use are almost 60 per cent
below the estimated requirements.
Military requirements are consolidated
by the armies and submitted to the
Allied Control Authority. By agreement
among the four occupying powers, allo-
cation for space heating is made at the
rate of eight pounds of coal per man
per day. Other military requirements
are prepared by the services concerned
~ the Office of the Chief of Trans-
portation and the Office of the Chief
Quartermaster — with the restriction
that no more than a 30-day stockpile
be accumulated.

The requirements for essential civilian
use are estimated by the local German
Economics offices and are submitted
through Military Government channels.
First priority is given to public utilities
requirements, with lower priorities for
food-processing plants, construction-
material industries, etc. Higher prior-
ities are given to plants producing
material for army contracts than to
those producing civilian consumer
goods.

The Allied Control Authority allo-
cations for railroads, military and
essential civilian use are made in bulk,
and the responsibility for the distri-
bution of the shipments made against
the bulk allocations for essential civilian
use rests on the authorities within each
zone.

The graph reproduced. below shows
the changing pattern of coal allocations

--- Page 14 ---
from August to November.. As trans-
portation and coal production improv-
ed, the proportion of production ear-
marked for export to the liberated
countries increased from 21 per cent in
August to 28 per cent in November.
Similarly, allocations to the railroads
have increased with the rehabilitation
of the lines, and military allocations
have increased with the approach of
winter and the greater need of coal
for space heating. As the inevitable
result of the increases in allocations for
other categories, allocations for essen-
tial civilian use have noticeably declined.

Approximately 90 per cent of the
November coal allocation for the U.S.
Zone is from British Zone production
in the Ruhr and Cologne mines. Sixty
thousand tons have been allocated for
railway use from the Saar, and the total
American Zone production is also in-
cluded in the November allocations for
U.S. use. Should production in the U.S.
Zone rise above the allocated figure,
the increase would represent a net gain
for use within the zone.

The difference between the estimated
requirements and allocations and the
actual deliveries for essential civilian

_use is a constant source of trouble for

Military Government officials. If not
enough coal is allocated or delivered,
some phase of military government
planning must be revised. Maximum
activity of food-processing plants and
building material factories is vital to
the achievement of the maximum food
production and winterization plans of
Military Government. Coal shortages
threaten. the operation of those plans.
At Ludwigsburg, for exampie, an
“ersatz” coffee plant was unable to meet
its shipment committments to Berlin
for lack of coal and coke. Similarly,
production of tile, lime, cement, gypsum
and slate — all urgentiy needed construc-

tion materials — nis been held up in
Bavaria because of coal shortages.
Again, plans for the extraction of

40,000 tons of sugar from a 300,000 ton
sugar beet crop would be severely
jeopardized by a delay of even one
month in the arrival of the required
amount of coal at the extraction plants.

MONTHLY ALLOCATIONS OF SOLID FUELS

PRODUCED IN WESTERN ZONES

“THOUSANC (BY PURPOSE) THOUSAND

METRIC METRIC

TONS TONS.
2,000 2,000
1,500) 1,500
1,000 1,000

5007 500
0 AUG. SEP OCT. NOV. AUG SEP. OCT. NOV AUG. SEP. OCT. NOV. AUG SEP’ OCT NOV
ESSENTIAL LIBERATED OCCUPYING
CIVILIAN GOUNTRIES TES RORT ATION TROOPS

11

--- Page 15 ---
Since requirements are estimated
several months in advance, changing
conditions may completely alter the
picture by the time shipments against
the allocations are made. When ship-
ments actually arrive, Military Govern-
ment officials frequently find it ne-
cessary to reassign the coal from the
user for whom the coal was originally
required, to another consumer who
currently has a higher priority. The un-
likelihood of allocations equaling re-
quirements, and the present inability
to depend upon shipments to equal allo-
cations, make it impossible to create a
stable, regular coal utilization program
for essential German civilian use. Fur-
thermore, it is frequently the cause of
overestimated requirements, the result
of which is an even greater dispropor-
tion 'bétween the estimated needs and
the actual deliveries.

Destroyed Bridges, Blocked Water-
ways, Wrecked Rolling Stock, are
Major Obstacles to our Efforts to Trans-
port Coal into the U.S. Zone.

The third, and unquestionably the
most perplexing aspect of the entire
problem at present is that of trans-
portation. Since, as mentioned above,
more than 90 per cent of the coal supply
for the U.S. Zone must be carried from
the British and French Zones, it is
obvious that unless the transportation
system is capable of carrying all the
coal which has been allocated, it is im-
possibie to satisfy even the minimum
coal requirements of the Zone. To date,
the transportation system has not
succeeded in meeting the demands
placed upon it, and with the approach
of winter it is more difficult for im-
provement to be made.

is a direct result of the war. American
strategic bombing reached its peak of
effectiveness in its disruption of the
German rail system including locomo-
tives and other rolling stock. In ad-
dition, in their withdrawal into the
heart of Germany, the German armies
almost completely destroyed the vitai
German inland waterways system by
the systematic destruction of virtually
every bridge which spanned the Rhine,
the Main, and the Neckar, and the
wrecking of the key connecting canals.
By V-E Day, no other single factor in
the German economy had been so com-
pletely and effectively paralyzed as
German transportation. Herculean effort
in the past six months has brought
order from chaos, but transportation
is still one of the most serious problems
confronting the American army.

To analyze the relationship between
the coal and transportation problems, it
is necessary to consider separately both
rail .and inland waterways trans-
portation.

Before the war, the German inland
waterways system was one of the most
highly organized networks in Europe.
A vast program of canal building had
linked the principal German rivers, and
it was possible to ship goods by barge
from the mouth of the Rhine through
the length of Germany into Austria via
the Rhine-Main-Danube canal which
linked the three rivers, or from the Ruhr
to Berlin via the great Mittelland canal.
The particular importance of the inland
waterways with respect to coal cannot
be overemphasized. It is estimated that
before the war approximately 70 per

“cent of all internal coal shipments were

The present inadequacy of the trans- -

portation system serving the U.S. Zone

12

carried
network.

over

the inland waterways

Today, that network is capable of
carrying only a minute fraction of its

--- Page 16 ---
pre-war volume. The Rhine, the most
important German river, is now open
from its mouth to Karlsruhe, but its
estimated capacity from the Ruhr to
the U.S.Zone for November and De-
cember is a meager 150,000 tons per
month. Were the entire lift to consist
of coal alone, the 150,000 ton total
would represent only about five per
cent of the present Ruhr hard coal pro-
duction!

There are several limiting factors in
ihe present use of the Rhine. The des-
truction of the bridges and the conse-
quent damming up of the river, resulted
in many changes in the river’s channel.
Consequently, even the most experi-
enced barge skipper must now pilot his

barge through completely changed
stretches of the river. Furthermore,
though a particular stretch may be
declared cleared at any particular time,
the flow of the river often brings with
it new obstructions to block the pre-
viously cleared channel.

Another limitation is caused by the
relatively low water level of the Rhine.
Barges cannot now be loaded to capa-
city, and the resulting loss frequently
runs as high as twenty per cent of the
actual barge capacity.

Not only did the Germans effectively
destroy their bridges, but an almost
equally efficient job was done in sink-
ing the essential coal barges. Although
sufficient barges are available now to

(Continued on Page 16)

Photo by U. S. Army Signal Corps

Typical of the obstacles in the race to transport coal is the Urmitz Bridge, north of Koblenz, where shifting

currents moved underwater steel sections to cause a new obstruction.

The channel, now clear, is not yet

being used because of the river's low water level. 20,000 tons of coal, loaded in barges at Duisburg, is
unable to move.

13

--- Page 17 ---
Inland Waterways and Railroads Serving the U.S. Zone of Germany

INLAND WATERWAYS

The principal inland waterways of Western
Germany which serve or lie within the U.S. Zone
are the Rhine, Main, Neckar, and Danube rivers,
and the Rhine-Main-Danube-Canal.

The Rhine has long been Germany's principal
waterway. On its banks lie some of Germany's
most important industrial centers, cities such as
Duisburg, Disseldorf, and Cologne in the north,
and Mannheim, Ludwigshafen, and Karlsruhe in the
south. At present, the river is open from the North
Sea to Karlsruhe, but its low water level and the
necessity for continued bridge repair and channel
clearing limits the upstream lift capacity to
150,000 tons, only a fraction of the river's
pre-war traffic.

The Main River, one of the two principal
tributaries of the Rhine, links the important cities
of Mainz, Frankfurt, Aschaffenburg, and Wiirzburg
by water to the coal and iron cities of the Ruhr.
Although the river is open as far as Wiirzburg,
limited transport is possible only as far as Aschaf-
fenburg, principally as the result of the extremely
low water level of the river.

The Neckar, southernmost of the Rhine tributar-
ies, is currently blocked for most of its length, with
traffic possible only as far as Heidelberg. The twin
industrial cities of Ludwigshafen and Mannheim
are Situated at the confluence of the Rhine and
Neckar. Although there is little expectation of imp-
rovement in clearing the Neckar before spring,
when the River is finally opened, the important
industrial cities of Wirttemberg, Heilbronn and
Stuttgart will be linked to the Rhine.

The Rhine-Main-Danube Canal is not yet in
operation and thus direct traffic from northern
Germany to Austria by water is not yet possible.

RAILROADS

Although the major limiting factor on rail trans-
portation in western Germany today is the acute
shortage of rolling stock, the German rail network
is not yet completely restored. Various sections of

the different rail lines are capable of carrying far
heavier tonnages than other stretches of the same
line.

From the daily tonnage capacity aspect, there
are three major lines now serving the U.S. Zone,
each with a greater than 16,000 - ton daily capa-
city in each direction. The longest of these runs
from Bremerhaven via Hannover, Witzenhausen,
Bebra, and Schliichtern to Hanau is the vital
supply link between the Bremen Sub-District and
the U. S. Zone. The second is a key coal supply
route, the line running from the Ruhr fo Kassel,
and Giessen to Hanau. The third and shortest
line in this capacity is the direct line from
Wirzburg to Nurnberg.

In the 12,000- to 15,000- ton daily capacity
class are four lines, one of which, the line from Nirn-
berg via Regensburg and Passau to Austria is one
of the two major rail supply routes from Germany
to Austria. Of equal capacity is the important
Ruhr-Giessen line which carries Ruhr coal
to the U.S. Zone. Two lines entirely within the
U.S. Zone of Germany in this class are those from
Darmstadt via Aschaffenburg and Gemiinden to
Wirzburg, and from Wirzburg via Bamberg to
Nurnberg.

In addition, a line from the Saar and Aachen
coal fields which transports important quantities of
coal into the U. S. Zone via Mainz and Hanau
can also carry similar tonnages.

The principal rail line connecting North Wirt-
temberg- Baden and Bavaria has a slightly lower
daily capacity. Actually starting at Frankfurt, it
connects Mannheim, Karlsruhe, Stuttgart, Ulm and
Augsburg and is capable of carrying 10,000 to
11,000 tons daily in both directions.

The vital rail supply route to Berlin actually con-
sists of three sections. From the port of Bremer-
haven to Hannover, the rail line can carry over
16,000 tons daily in each direction, but the section
from Hannover via Brunswick and Helmstedt to
Magdeburg has less than half that capacity, and
from Magdeburg to Berlin, the line, partly single
track, can carry only 7,500 tons daily.

--- Page 18 ---
BRitTtishH

ZONE

nan

}
munyatéy FY ¢ ~" RAILROADS & INLAND WATERWAYS

Q SSE swnzeangusen IN UNITED STATES ZONE

eurremayfen +
rf . of ion
is yd a a
cove f
wo
re { ruvon ba
aX NN oy m Lee
\\ rncaoel fonvorm 7
ZONE e wT Uy
Fraser, rs : 2 CZECHO-
Lay . SLOVAKIA

—— Q

AUSTRIA

15

--- Page 19 ---
(Contined from Page 13)
meet the present limited capacity of
the inland waterways, the shortage of
barges will be acutely felt as river
clearance progresses.

In the U.S. Zone, every effort is being
made to increase the possible flow along
the waterways system, but the approach
of winter makes it unlikely that much
improvement can be achieved before
spring.

RAILROADS BEARING PRESENT LOAD

The German rail network is now
forced to carry the greatest part of the
coal transportation burden. Great pro-
gress in road and bridge repair has
been made in the past half year, and
today the limiting factor is principally
the acute scarcity of rolling stock,
particularly freight cars.

The projected rail shipments of coal
for the U.S.Zones of Germany and
Austria for the month of November
total just over one million tons. Taking
an average coal car capacity of twenty
tons (it is often estimated as low as
eighteen), approximately 50,000 indi-
vidual car loadings are required to
accomplish the total shipments.

The shortage of cars had become so
critical by October that a ten-day
embargo was placed on all loading,
diverting, and re-consigning of rail
cars in order to accomplish the greatest
amount of unloading and consequent
freeing of tied-up cars. Only shipments
of coal, and cars carrying shipments to
U.S. Forces in Austria and Berlin were
excepted from the embargo.

The car shortage is, of course, ac-
centuated by delays in turn-around time.
Shipments from the British Zone to the
U.S. Zone are made by the train, and
after a 40-car train arrives at its central
destination in the U.S. Zone, very often
there is considerable delay before the

16

individual cars can be re-routed to the
eventual consumer for unloading and
return.

During September and the first two
weeks of October, shipments from the
Ruhr to the U.S. Zone averaged only
about 75 per cent of the loadings allo-
cated, principally as as result of the
conditions outlined above.

Receipts, however, do not always
equal shipments, for a_ considerable
amount of coal is lost by theft enroute.
Diversion of coal in transit from the
Ruhr is reported to be approximately
ten per cent in the case of military
shipments, and even higher in the case
of shipments for German civilian use.
Since no advance notice of the
markings of the arriving cars is given,
but only the number of cars making up
the train, very often entire cars disappear
after the train is split up. Although at-
tempts are made to locate the missing
cars, frequently no trace of them can
be found. In addition, pilfering from
cars during train halts often results in
the arrival of a half or quarter-filled
car.

To summarize, the coal problem —
which must be solved if Military Gov-
ernment is to succeed — consists of
several interlocking problems which
must be tackled before the larger pro-
blem can be resolved. The key problem
is transport, for increasing production
of coal will mean little if the trans-
portation system cannot effect
creased distribution.

in-

The entire situation is far too com-

‘plex to permit any generalization as

to when the problem will be solved. All
four occupying powers are, however,
fully cognizant of the extreme im-
portance of coal to the European
economy, and every effort is being
made to achieve maximum results.

--- Page 20 ---
Occupation Troops and YO

Several weeks ago the Western Mili-
tary District issued an order to its
tactical units directing that they take
initiative in organizing youth activities.

The effects of this directive promise

to be remarkable, and, if it is carried
out by tactical units with vigor and
enthusiasm, will have far-reaching
effects not only on the Germans but
on the occupation troops as well. It
is perfectly clear that there are not
enough blameless nationals left in the
country on which to base a youth
movement (as opposed to local youth
activities), which is specifically for-
bidden by the Control Council. A few
German leaders can be found, but on
the whole the result of attempting to
organize large-scale youth activities
around German leaders would be rather
inadequate and aseptic now, particularly
in view of the fact that the leaders of
youth during the past twelve years
have been thoroughly discredited.

DEMOCRACY BY DEMONSTRATION

Among American soldiers, however,
there are hundreds of thousands of
leaders of youth. With soldiers as
youth leaders, the Germans can learn
what American sportsmanship is, and
why we think and act as we do; that
we are not as superficial as so many
Continentals seem to think, but that
our kind of training and living has
produced something which is called
American democracy — a commodity
which cannot be sold to the Germans
in any other way except demonstration.
One of the most effective means of
achieving international amity and under-
standing in the past has been through
the medium of sports and other similar
mutual activities.

One trouble with the relations be-
tween the American occupation troops

17

UTH ACTIVITIES

Western Military District has directed
occupation troops to take the initiative

in youth activities.

and Europe has been that compara-
tively little binds usto either the liber-
ated areas or to Germany, except the
big picture which is the reason for our
being here. Since few of us are abie
to reflect the ideals of the big picture
in our daily lives, fraternization as we
have known it has taught the Germans
little about Americans, except that we
tend to be easy-going and lonely.
Youth activities, on the other hand, can
be a means of guided fraternization, in
which our soldiers can feel a sense of
personal responsibility, which is latent
now; and they may also come to realize
that their real task here is concretely
expressed in such an activity as the
guidance of youth, in that it is by no
means limited merely to the com-
paratively dull business of serving as
security for Military Government.

BENEFITS TO ALL

By such a project, the Germans, of
course, benefit the most, in that they
receive ready-made leaders for ‘their
youth. Out of the first generation of
youth who will have had contact with
American soliders may well emerge the
new leaders of youth — indoctrinated
by our own troops, and prepared to
take over the task of instructing and
guiding the next generation.

Military Government also benefits,
not only because it is assisted in the
solution of one of its major problems,
but also because the activity of the
tactical troops may create a stronger
bond between the two phases of the
occupation, namely, control and
security.

--- Page 21 ---
Youth movements in Germany have,
in the past, been a part of the national
life —- far more closely identified with
it than in Great Britain and the United
States, where the Boy Scouts and
similar -movements have had a
comparatively limited following, with
a personal rather than a national appeal.
And it-has been possible-here to gauge
the. morale of the people by the state
of the youth. For example, during the
Weimar Republic wandering youth
went all over Germany — the ”Wander-
végel”, with no other aim than to keep
moving —- and out of this unorganized
group the nazis were able to mold
one of their most powerful instruments
for control. by the State: the Hitler-
jugend.

ARRESTING THE CYCLE

Once again we find in Germany
the beginnings of this cycle; the
from city to city. One way of arresting
this cycle is to take the initiative into
our own hands, by anticipating the
dangers of a new Hitlerjugend in years
to come, simply by organizing the
youth locally ourselves, and making
them over as our own.

The American press is now accusing
the occupation troops of being "taken
in” ideologically. Whether tls is so or
not, there can be no question that by
taking such a step as the Seventh Army
directive outlines we are definitely
taking the ideological initiative in
making the youth over as we wish them
to be.

The jump from fraternization with
children through gifts of gum and
candy bars (a method of political in-
doctrination which probably has not
resulted in any lasting effects once the
gifts have been consumed) to active
supervision of youth activities is a long
one. But where it has been tried, as a
result of the Seventh Army directive, it
has proved to be fairly simple. For

example, U.S. troops are making
baseball and football equipment -avail:
able to German youths in many local-
ities, such-as Witzenhausen in Great
Hesse, and Pforzheim in North Wiirt-
temberg-Baden, where a group of’
soldiers, without prompting from
above, has gathered around: them boys
of the fifteen-years-old group and are

now .teaching them our sports.
Throughout North Wiirttemberg-
Baden, military units have been co-

operating with civilian authorities to
provide educational programs for Ger-
man children. The 100th Division has
designated four officers to co-operate
with the Oberbiirgermeister of Stutt-
gart in the establishment of such a
program, while in Wesermiinde (Bremen
Sub-District) youth leaders have been
appointed in all communities to carry
out, in conjunction with local troops, a
program of sports, work projects, and
handicraft classes for children.

“Ike” Stadium in Bremen was made
available to German children for a kite
contest and sports festival on October
2ist, sponsored by the. 115th. Infantry.
and Military Government and having
the cooperation of the Office of Sport
and Youth Activities of Bremen. About
1500 children, aged ten to fourteen,
attended the morning program of
sports. The afternon program, attended
by 12,000 persons, was highlighted by
a soccer game between players drawn
from Bremen sports clubs and a team
of Scottish military personnel from
Oldenburg (tie Germans won, 3-2).

WHAT THE GERMANS ARE DOING

Once official permission had been
given for the re-establishment of Ger-
man youth activities and organizations
(subject to Military Government super-
vision) the German authorities them-
selves, recognizing the urgent need for
it, began everywhere to rebuild the

--- Page 22 ---
shattered framework of youth acti-
vities at local levels. Many Kreise have
already set up youth committees, and
a wide variety of youth organizations

have been submitted to Military Gov- -~

ertiment for- approval. Several groups
have actually been approved, and are
already active. Non-military

and music seem. to be stressed as
major activities. Many churches have
appointed their outstanding laymen as
co-ordinators of secular and church
programs of youth activities, and have
infused, in some instances, a degree of
religious education. Wholly church-
sponsored organizations in general
seem to be patterned on the model of
the Boy Scouts.

UNUSUAL ACTIVITIES

In some localities youth activities
have assumed rather unusual forms, in
an endeavor to combine leisure-time
activities: with useful work on the part
of the children. This was particularly
true before the opening of elementary
schools. For instance, the Senator of
Education in Bremen has been super-
vising for several months’ a project
which employs children aged twelve to
sixteen in clearing and repairing public
gardens, parks, and schools. Working
four hours daily before the schools
opened, the children were able to
restore several school buildings. In
Heppenheim (Great Hesse), three or
four children were assigned to work
with each carpenter, bricklayer, glazier,
etc., te do menial work so that the
craftsman could devote his time to
work that required his particular skill.
In Offenbach, .238 youths voluntarily
helped to restore schoolrooms, collect
medicinal plants, and pick: potato’ bugs
in the field. Similarly, in Munich,

sports, ©
literature, art, dramatics, handicrafts, ,

hundreds of children gathered herbs‘in
order to help restock the depleted
shelves with such items as camomile,
peppermint, and herb roots used in

) (Preparation of cough remedies and
‘sedatives.

ay

YOUTH'S NEED FOR GUIDANCE

In the‘:years of national socialism,
the many activities of the party, and to
a lesser extent churches and other re-
ligious organizations, took up.. the
leisure time of Germany’s | children.
Nazi youth organizations have been
stopped; and religious’ communities
have found little time to tackle the
growing problem of youth welfare and
leisure-time activities. The havoc
wrought in German economic and social
standards, the cumulative effects of
bombing, lack of toys and books, and
the necessary though regrettable tem-
porary lapse in formal schooling, have
all contributed in leaving their mark on
German youth, now not only disillusion-

ed but from their point-of view with

every reason to feel desperate for the
future. Without America’s personai
touch, the youth of this country find
it hard to believe in a wholly new con-
cept of democracy; the benefits of it
are not readily apparent to them.

The German authorities, now  per-
mitted to organize local youth activity,
recognize the seriousness of the dilem-
ma of youth. The older generations in
this country are finding it hard to re-
tain the respect of their disenchanted -
young. For the sake of the future of
our efforts to bring democracy to Ger-
many as well as the future of youth, ‘co-
operation in guiding youth by demo-
cracy’s best salesmen, the. American
soldier, will go a long way toward con-
tributing to the establishment of a
future Europe, genuinely at’ peace.

--- Page 23 ---
General

Personnel QUALIFICATIONS for CIVILIAN Jobs

Personnel qualifications for civilian jobs at Regional level of Military Government are
described in these briefs. Qualifications for additional posts open to Military Govern-
ment personnel will be published in forthcoming issues of the BULLETIN.

HEAD OF FOOD, AGRICULTURE AND
FORESTRY - CAF 14

(Base Salary Plus Overseas - $ 8,969)

Must have had broad experience and
academic . training in ~ agricultural
mianagement, including production,
harvesting, processing and distribution.
Must be familiar with German agri-
culturai: history and understand the
operation of pre-war cooperative organ-
izations, knowledge of subsistence,
floors and ceilings in neighboring coun-
tries desirable.

Must be familiar with German forestry -

system and have broad general know-
ledge of Forestry management.

Must be able to achieve coordination
with other Government heads on agri-
cultural problems concerning, man-
power, transportation, finance, etc.

Graduation from an approved agri-
cultural college or university essential.

HEAD OF AGRICULTURAL SECTION -
CAF 13

(Base Salary Plus Overseas - $7,787)

Must have demonstrated capacity for
technical and administrative supervision
over farms and market channels to
insure regulated flow of. products to
customers. Must be able to direct Ger-
man agricultural authorities in the use
of lands, production goals, distribution
methods, and shifting of emphasis on

20

one crop to another to further Allied
interests. Must be able to familiarize
himself with German system of agri-
cultural control through detailed: ac-
counting system. for capacity, pro-
duction, and sales from farm lands.

(Staff members and staff assistants
positions at CAF Grade 11 and 9, gross
salaries 5,375 dollars and 4,550 dollars
respectively are available in this cate-
gory).

* *

(Base Salary Plus Overseas - $ 7,787) ,

Must have detailed knowledge of pro-
cessing and distribution of food to
customers, must be familiar with cate-
gories of customers, such as laborers,
unemployed, victims of nazi persecution,
etc. and know Allied policy with
relation to each. Knows principles of
supervision over wholesalers, cooper-
atives, retailers and German food
offices.

(Staff members and staff assistants
positions at CAF Grades 11 & 9, gross
salaries 5,375 dollars and 4,550 dollars
respectively are available in this cate-
gory).

* *
FOOD AND AGRICULTURE AND/OR
FORESTRY SPECIALIST - CAF 7

(Base Salary Plus Overseas - $ 3,725)

General training and some experience
in either food, agriculture or forestry
fields. Must have demonstrated capacity
for defining irregular or inefficient

--- Page 24 ---
plant, shop or farm operation. Will be
required to maintain charts and records,
and write routine reports. Must have
had some office management ex-
perience.
* *
HEAD OF POSTS, TELEPHONE AND
TELEGRAPH FUNCTION - CAF 14

(Base Salary Plus Overseas - $ 8,969)

Broad knowledge of German Postal
services and Wire Communications
essential. Must be able to supervise the
reconstruction of these services on
regional level. Postal Services also in-
volving some old age and _ pension
schemes, savings banks with attending
check clearance problems, directs ‘hat
this individual must also know in a
general way these services.

Must have knowledge of general
engineering practices and be familiar
with rehabilitation operation and main-
tenance of communication equipment.
Must have extensive executive ex-
perience in handling communication
systems, engineering problems and postal
functions. Use of German language
desirable.

* *
HEAD OF TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH
SECTION - CAF 13

(Base Salary Plus Overseas - $ 7,787)

Must have demonstrated capacity to
organize and control communications
systems, to formulate, publish, and
enforce policy governing restoration of
these facilities; must be able to make
spot checks and investigations of ad-
ministrative and technical functionings
of same to ascertain inefficiency and
insure security.

* *

HEAD OF POSTS SECTION - CAF 13
(Base Salary Plus Overseas - $ 7,787)
Must have thorough knowledge of

postal facilities and services, be capable
of the formulation, publication and en-
forcement of policies governing restora-

21

tion of minimum ‘essential services.
Must be so thoroughly familiar with
this service that he can detect any
evasion or inefficiency on part of Ger-
man administration at any level in his
region.

* *

POSTS, TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH
(STAFF MEMBERS) - CAF 11

(Base Salary Plus Overseas - $ 5,375)

Individuals must have general overall
experience and/or training in com-
munications or postal work. Require-
ments are similar to those of heads of
same sections, and individuals will be
performing essentially the same kind
of work as section heads with a lesser
degree of responsibility.

Black- Market Transport

CIVIL ROAD Transport is being used
for unauthorized movements. and to
haul black-market commodities. Mili-
tary Districts were directed this week
to take immediate steps to strenghten
all present Civil Police Motorcycle
Roads Patols and to establish additional
road patrols where deemed necessary
to ‘curtail these violations. Night spot
checks and patrolling of secondary and
back roads are to be emphasized.

Book-Burnings Not Authorized

DURING the week USFET’s attention
was called to rumors that certain Land-
rate and German communities have been
instructed to collect books with nazi
tendencies with a view to their destruc-
tion, together with others ¢alled from
Public Libraries and stores, by means
of public bonfires and otherwise. De-
struction of seized books and other
literature is not authorized, and the
Military Districts were directed to take
steps to prevent such action.

--- Page 25 ---
German Reactions

THE German

THE EXTRACT from a Military Gov-
ernment detachment report given below
aptly sums up the attitude of the Ger-
man population toward the recently-
licensed newspapers:

After analyzing the hundreds of
rumors and interviewing Germans of
all walks of life, one is led to the con-
clusion that the German independent
press exercises no influence at all over
the German people. Not all the news-
papers appearing in the region are of
equal quality. The Frankfurter Rund-
schau is by far the best, with the Rhein-
Neckar Zeitung occupying second place.
But even these fail in their efforts to
simulate an alive newspaper.

Even assuming that news of an inter-
national scope is not of prime im-
portance in a, newspaper, the German
newspaper in the American Zone is
deficient also in the coverage of locai
news. The reader feels as if a foreigner,
writing flawless German, is preaching
to him. Several members of the staffs
of different newspapers admit that
newspaper work is something new to
them, and that the ‘concentration camp
was no school of journalism. This lack
of expertness they remand to second
place, however, and according to them

‘the main reasons for the colorlessness

of the press are the timidity of the
licensees, the divergent political views
represented by them and the jealousy
among the different political parties
present on the staff concerning publi-
city given to one or the other of the
parties. Among the deficiencies to
which they confess are:

Ti

22

The Germans survey the weaknesses
of their new Press.

1) The lack of agricultural coverage.
The farmer and the farm areas re-
main almost neglected except in
items concerning black marketing
or the food supply.

2) The lack of youth coverage. No
attempt has been made by any
newspaper to enlist the younger
generation among its readers by
offering special columns to their

problems.

3. The failure to help readjust the
people to the new forms of gov-
ernment.

All the newspapers complain about
the shortages of paper and print and
trained personnel. They ascribe their
lack of influence also to the fact that
there are no independent news agencies
and to the shortage of names” known
to the people.

Among the many shattered illusions
once held by the German people is the
one concerning the sanctity of the
press. The German, having been fooled
by the press under Hitler, has now lost
all faith in it. Hence he pays little
attention to the printed news items,
dismissing them either as propaganda,
or at best only attempting to find in
them support for the rumors he has
heard. The prevalence of rumors is the
best indication of the ineffectiveness
of the press. The reader does not expect
important news from the newspapers.

--- Page 26 ---
For that he turns to the rumor mon-
gers, who are always prepared to-des-
cribe the latest skirmish” among the
Allies.

The German regards the newspapers
as the moutpieces- of the occupying
forces. The sanctimonious tone which
most of the papers assume when dis-
cussing Allied war aims and the opera-
tions of Military Government are not
conducive to another point of view.
Even the average anti-nazi German,
though fully aware of Germany’s war
guilt, considers it in bad taste for the
-editorial staffs to continue day after
day to relate the nation’s sins. Though
the great majority of the population
advocates co-operation with the occu-
pying forces, the currying of favors
by anticipating the desires of the
governors is held in contempt by all.
And that is what the German accuses
the press of doing.

The Necessity for Law No. 8

THE PAINED surprise accorded by a
multitude of Germans on the publica-
ttion of Law No. 8, and the loud and
resentful wailings that followed the
first shock, clearly indicate both that
the Germans finally realize that our
denazification gun had, so to speak, a
real bullet in it, and that this law was
necessary to make them realize the
fact. In a recent issue of the Wies-
badener Kurier, a German himself, it
is encouraging to note, takes his non-
nazi fellow-countrymen to task for not
showing an earlier will to effect them-
selves an adequate housecleaning of
nazis in business and industrial enter-
prises. His remarks, published under
the title, °Our Lesson (Uns zur Lehre),”
are translated below.

Several months ago, when the war
was approaching its end, all anti-fascist
circles were clear as to the necessity for

23

wiping out national socialism. Quite a
lot happened in this regard, too, above
all in the field of civil administration.
Within business and industry, however,
things developed only in a very unsatis-
factory manner and the dissatisfaction
released thereby had to have its con-
sequences — which are now with us.
They are expressed in Law 8 which is
now being busily and anxiously dis-
cussed from all angles. .
That there had to be such a law at
all, to accomplish something that was
naturally called for, and that it had to
be promulgated by Military Govern-
ment instead of issuing from a German
source, is a bitter lesson for us. The
promulgation of the law is like a slap
in the face, because it forces us to
acknowledge that, quite frankly, we
can’t properly dispose of a question,
whose solution is our own responsibili-
ty, either in a timely or technical sense.
”Law No. 8 refers exclusively to the
employment of former nazis in business
enterprises. It is not concerned with
public administration, which matter is
handled differently and has progressed
much farther. In leading business
circles there obviously existed no in-
clination to co-operate effectively in
eliminating nazism. As so often, instead
of acting, one assumed an attitude of
waiting chiefly, it is presumed, because
very many people on business direc-
torates and boards would themselves
have been affected by any [anti-nazil
measures. It is our own fault that very
drastic measures are now being taken
which we could have avoided by timely
and effective action. Weren’t we able to
act in the manner called for ourselves?
Didn’t our own government neglect to
regulate this important problem? By
our inaction, haven’t we shown that we
are lacking in good will, to build
something new and really to eliminate
nazism from private business, too?
The application of the law requires

--- Page 27 ---
for complete effectiveness its execution
in all zones of occupation. What use
the local Military Government auth-
orities will make of the exception
clause in Paragraph 5 remains to be
seen. The text gives a clue as to the
method of handling exceptions. Those
persons who assert that they did not
actively participate in the affairs of the
NSDAP or its affiliated organizations
..can. submit an .appeal. It. will take
months to process the thousands of such
appeals. Until then Paragraph 1 will be
effective, whereby the employment of
any persons referred to is forbidden,

except in the capacity of an ordinary
worker.

The terms of this law mean without
doubt a severe economic shock for
many people. But it is both useless and
too late to bewail tflat fact. One should
have reflected earlier on that, namely,

~ when one joined the party!

24

The present severities of the law
could have without doubt been avoided,
if we ourselves had taken full and timely
action. Let us solve our own problems!
That was our duty! We neglected it.
May we learn from this lesson!”

--- Page 28 ---
oices fe} x erience
Voices of Exp

Housing or pisptacep Persons

IN LINE with the policy of placing
administrative as well as material re-
sponsibility for the care of Displaced
Persons on the German civil authorities,
Detachment E-4 (Kassel) has directed
the Regierungsdirektor of the building
department to take charge of the
winterization of camps throughout the
Regierungsbezirk. Full responsibility
for the acquisition of materials, the
employment of labor, and the super-
vision of the work has been delegated
to this official and his office. *

In a directive dated October 20th the
Regierungsdirektor was instructed to
make all preliminary surveys and to
submit to the Housing Officer of De-
tachment E-4 a list of materials re-
quired, so that Military Government
may expedite the allocation of the
necessary items. The surveys, which have
now been completed, were to be made
in co-operation with UNRRA camp
directors and local Military Government
Detachments. Standards to which build-
ings must be brought were set by the
camp directors in conference with local
detachments and the civilian contrac-
tors. Following approval of the list of
items by the Housing Officer of Detach-
ment E-4, allocations, where available,
were made by the civilian allocation
authorities.

In the case of some materials, how-
ever, supplies did not exist in Regie-
rungsbezirk Kassel. The Trade and: In-
dustry Section of Detachment E-4 had
to be called in to manufacture ma-
terial available in other areas. In this
manner tar was allocated to a tarpaper
plant as well as coal for its operation.

25

How Kassel’s Co-ordinating Board(des-
cribed last week) lines up with the po-
licy of making the Germans take over
functional responsibility from Military
Government.

An allocation of glass was also obtained,
and Transportation is supervising the
shipment of this critical item. There is
also a shortage of stove pipe, which
may be obtained in the British area or
may possibly be manufactured in the
Regierungsbezirk.

Since first priority has been given to
tlis work, the allocation of scarce
building-trades labor has solved what
might have become a serious problem.
The lack of such skilled workers has
hampered repair of civilian housing
throughout the area, but the work or:
the DP camps has progressed satis-
factorily.

A check on progress is constantly
made by UNRRA and-hby the local de-
tachments. Any additional problems of
supply, labor, or transportation are
discussed at the weekly meetings of the
Displaced Persons Co-ordinating Board,
the weekly MGO’s meeting, and the
weekly UNRRA meeting (as analyzed in
the last issue of the BULLETIN).

The fact that the deadline set (the
middle of November) will, according to
present indications, be met, points to the
success of this method of accomplishing
the repairs. A saving in manpower, by
utilization of German technical know-
ledge in the surveying of needs and the
supervision of actual work (rather than
by attempting to use the limited tech-

--- Page 29 ---
nical skill of UNRRA camp directors
and local military government detach-
ments), has been achieved. Through the
centralization of supply and control, a
singie requisition can be submitted for
the Regierungsbezirk and all supply
planning can be done for the area as a
unit rather than having a complicated
scramble for materials at the Landkreis
level. With responsibility firmly placed
with one man (or agency), efficiency
is increased.

It is hoped that the anticipated success
of this project will permit this type of
administrative co-ordination to be used
for other purposes in line with the
general policy of placing responsibility
at an increasingly higher level.

CIVIL RESPONSIBILITIES FOR
ALLOCATION

The civilian head of trade and in-
dustry in LK Naila (RB Ober- und
Mittelfranken) asked the assistance of
Military Government in combatting
what he considers to be a detrimental
policy on the part of the Regional
Economic Office, which has been issuing
ration slips for large amounts of shoes,
textiles, and other items produced in
the Landkreis for distribution to other
regions. He pointed out that the Munich
office has made no provision for pro-
curement of raw materials for con-
tinued production, and that at the
present required rate of production
many plants will have to shut down in
the next few months. Military Govern-
ment informed the Landrat that under
current policy all such questions should
be taken up with the German agencies
concerned, on whom responsibility for
civilian problems of production and
distribution have been placed.

26

‘merely of the machinery for

LABOR UNIONS IN KASSEL

During the past nfonth there has
been a marked increase in labor union
activity in RB Kassel. Seventy-seven
applications for Shop-Steward elections
were received during the past week
alone.

There has been, in the past, a general
apathy toward labor-union participation
not unlike the attitude toward politics.
At a local manpower conference held
last month, it was staed that the
trade-union movement must find its
roots at the lowest levels, primarily in
Shop-Steward -elections. This expressed
policy has apparently generated the
sudden upswing in activity.

Presented with the thesis that they
must base the justification for their
unions, on the participation of the
workers, rather than on the formation
union
activity, the trade-union organizers
(mostly former Social Democrats and
pre-Hitler trade-unionists) have con-
centrated their . attention on _ the
stimulation of Shop-Steward elections.
The growth of this activity closely
parallels development of politics, in that
interest in trade unions has been
prompted by organizers rather than
activity on the part of the workers
themselves, who have shown no ap-
parent reawakening of long-dormant
enthusiasm for this type of organi-
zation.

The movement received further im-
petus when Military Government direc-
tives publicized through the
facilities of the local German paper and
by means of posters prominently dis-
played throughout the Regierungs-
bezirk.

were

--- Page 30 ---
P ress Comments

sa

Eisenhower Report
IN NEWS SPOTLIGHT

THE THIRD monthly report of Ge-
neral Eisenhower as Military Governor
was prominently featured in the Ameri-
can press, with commentators stressing
the economic, social and political pro-
biems facing the occupation forces in
Germany. Some observers saw the re-
port as reinforcing General Marshall’s
recent warning that the nation is demo-
bilizing its wartime armies too fast.

The report of Generai Eisenhower
“paints a frankly unsatisfactory and in
part disturbing picture of the situation,”
declared The New York Times. ‘’Politi-
cal and economic conditions in Ger-
many are deteriorating rapidly beyond
the state caused by the war and the
German collapse. The food and fuel
situation is growing worse as winter
approaches .. . If this involved only the
fate of the Germans themselves, many
might be inclined to shrug their shoul-
ders and let it go at that. But the
deveioping conditions also affect - our
occupation troops. No doubt the in-
fluence of nazi ideas and the fraterni-
zation of Allied soldiers with German
women have something to do with this.
But the main cause is hunger and
misery.”

The statement that German unrest
might possibly lead to organized
resistance evoked many editorial com-
ments. Said the New York Herald-
Tribune: ~The question which Ameri-
cans must face is whether these symp-
toms of a potential German rebellion
are the inevitable result of German
unwillingness to accept the consequen-
ces of defeat, or whether they stem
spontaneously and gratuitously from
errors of Allied administration and

27

UT THe CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MoNtTOR

Th
j ————
Aye New York Fimes ee
ee Te aS

Allied policies. In the first case, the
occupation forces can only brace them-
selves for conflict; the Germans cannot
be permitted to alter the terms of their
sentence by force or the threat of force.
If the second is a true statement of the
situation, something must be done if
tragedy is to be avoided.”

The disclosure that "German arrog-
ance is once again on the rise and that
signs of organized uprising are every-
where present comes as a sickening
shock to the American people, who at
such staggering cost brought about the
destruction of the nazi armies,” said
the Cleveland Plain Dealer, adding that
if General Eisenhower needs more sol-
diers, “he should have them without
quibbling.” In similar vein, the Boston
Post asserted that the American people
could have but one reaction to the re-
velation that German youth and former
soldiers are developing a spirit of re-
sistance. "That reaction will be that, if
not enough force is being applied to
keep the Germans completely subject
to the American Administrative Regu-
lations, more force should be directed
against the revolters,” the Post said.

In an editorial on November 4th,
entitled "Are We Failing in Germany?”
the Philadelphia Record declared that
*we are stripping our occupation forces
in Germany so fast, to comply with the
demands ’to bring the boys home’, that
the original program for the occu-
pation of Germany suffers,” asserting
that General Eisenhower must be given
all the men, materials and authority. he
needs. "The alternative would be to
court disaster, for the second time in

--- Page 31 ---
less than 30 years,” the Record warned.

As one radio commentator, John
Kennedy saw it, General Marshall's
warning that we are in a dangerous
hurry to return to the ways of peace
received. a powerful reinforcement in
General Eisenhower’s report. Said Ken-
nedy: “Eisenhower reports mounting
dissatisfaction among the Germans,
especially resentment among young
Germans over fraternization among
American troops with German girls.
Such resentment is quite understandable.
For not only young German men, but
young American women don’t like that
fraternization at all.”

Post-Hitler Germany interprets Ameri-
can friendliness as ’downright foolish-
ness” and habitual American kindness
“merely as proofs of weakness”, as-
serted John Vandercook in an NBC
broadcast. "A race trained to idolize a
sternly-disciplined army has only ar-
rogant superiority as it observes the
casual lack of discipline of U.S. occu-
pation troops; so these supermen, again
falsely assured of their own superiority,
are beginning to make real trouble,”
said Vandercook.

Navy Day Speech

President Truman’s Navy Day speech
was received with generally favorable
comment by the American press as pro-
viding a clear-cut definition of U.S.
foreign policy in the post-war world.
The Washington Post expressed the
opinion that the President was right in
assuming that the program outlined in
the speech is ’the foreign policy favored
by a great majority of the people,”
pointing out, however, that its principal
weakness was vagueness as to plans for
putting this policy into effect.

In the opinion of The New York
Times, the President has answered
both those who have been crying that
we have no foreign policy and those

28

who viewed our principles as camouflage
for ulterior motives. And in so doing
he has laid the basis for a new start
toward making peace.”

Sounding a more critical note, the
New York Herald-Tribune declared that
*among America’s neighbors, there is
likely to be more alarm at the fact of
American power -— _ so_ triumphantly
proclaimed by the President — than
confidence in the promise that it wiil
be devoted only to the most beneficient
ends. Mr. Truman’s picture of power
united with idealism is an inspiring one,
but such inspiration can become a most
dangerous intoxicant.”

Though the Pyesident’s speech was
favorably received in England, sharp
exception was taken by most commen-
tators to the decision of the Washing-
ton administration to retain the secret
of the atomic bomb.

A typical comment on this point was
the following from the Manchester

‘Guardian: "We in this country, with

our peculiar ties and the practical cer-
tainty that we shall never be enemies,
may be ready to take American altruism
at something near its face value. But
the rest of the world, and especially the
suspicious, secretive Russians, may not.
In his handling of the question of the
atomic bomb . . . President Truman, it
must be feared,-has not increased the
area of international trustfulness. If
the United States asserts high principles
of ‘world co-operation’, she must be
prepared to apply them; she will be
bitterly disillusioned, if she thinks that
the way to ‘outlaw’ the atomic bomb
is to sit on it.”

For Britain and Europe, the most im-
portant part of the President’s speech,
said the London Sunday Times, is that
in which he reaffirmed the determina-
tion of his Government to remain in
the United Nations organization and to
share the responsibility of ensuring
peace ~— by force, if necessary.”

--- Page 32 ---
East of the Elbe

In an article entitled East of the
Elbe”, the London Economist, in a re-
cent issue, makes some interesting ob-
servations with respect to developments
in the Soviet Zone. Following the
earlier period of "destructive revenge-
fulness”, the article states that the Soviet
Military Government "is getting down
to brass tacks and trying to rehabilitate
what is left of Eastern Germany.” The
article describes the attention which is
being paid to the intelligentsia”
through the opening of theaters, con-
certs, and the publication of news-
papers, and the organization of politi-
cal parties. Despite this program, ac-
cording to the article, "Russian policy
has not secured its objective — it has
not made up of Eastern Germany a
genuine sphere of Russian influence.”

Russian policy, it pointed out, is still
confronted by the dilemma of balanc-
ing the desire for revenge with the need
for reconciliation. Whatever the
duration and the further policies of the
Russian occupation, it has already im-
pressed itself on Germany’s social
structure to an extent that cannot
easily be ignored even beyond the
Russian Zone,” the Economist said.

Soviet and French Reaction

Moscow broadcasts were featured by
an attack on foreign papers that are
critical of the operation of the repara-
tions decisions at Potsdam. ”The Berlin
decision calls for the liquidation of
German war industry, not of those in-
dustries catering for German civilian
requirements,” declared Hoffman in an
English broadcast, which charged that
certain newspapers were trying to give
the public a distorted understanding of
the Allied reparations plans.

Soviet broadcasts continued to oppose
leniency to the nazis and urge the need

29

for watchfulness to safeguard the peace
against possible future aggressor
nations.

The decision of U.S. military auth-
orities to stop the transfer of German
prisoners to France was prominently
featured in the French press, with the
trend of comment not unfavorable to
the American action.

Reflecting French opinion on the
German problem, Pierre Bernus in Le
Nation declared that France was render-
ing a service to the world in opposing
policies that might lead to the unifica-
tion of Germany. ,

Random Comments

Actually the German mind is so
accustomed to goose-stepping that it
is doubtful if a generation of education
would inculcate in them the principles
of democracy as we understand them.
That task of re-education and of dis-
arming minds accustomed to thinking
in militaristic terms and to giving blind
obedience to leaders who appeal to the
underlying selfishness and stupidity of
the German soul is perhaps the greatest
one that lies before us in conquered
Germany, and, quite frankly, it is being
neglected.” Raymond Daniell in The
New York Times.

* *

Military Government works better
than I had expected, for many of its
officials have a genuine and valuable
sense of mission. You find a man in his
twenties governing a decent-sized town
with all the assurance of an administra-
tor of long standing. And no colonial
governor had a greater variety of
problems to settle than those which
faced Military Government in the early
days ... But in the absence of a long-
term policy for Germany, Military Gov-
ernment is doing a job which should
both lessen the dangers of chaos now

--- Page 33 ---
and increase the chances of educating
anew generation of Germans.” Vernon
Bartlett in the London News Chronicle.

* *

The other evening I finished reading
Henry Morgenthau Jr.’s book ’Germany
is our Problem.’ The facts in this book
are carefully checked. It is not written
with any hate of the German people,
but with the purpose of making it clear
to us that this land which lies in the
center of Europe will not be allowed
to start another war. I think it is the
best answer to some of the industrialists,
both in Great Britain and here, who
think more of their pockets than they
do of world safety.” Mrs. Eleanor
Roosevelt in ”’My Day”.

* *

From the point of view of the Eu-
ropean economy, if for no other reason,
the deindustrialization scheme for Ger-
many advocated by Mr. Morgenthau
would have disastrous consequences. In
the long run, Germany’s economic posi-
tion in Europe cannot be glossed over.
Conversion’ of Germany’s _ industry,
from war to peace production, must
therefore have as its objective the
reintegration of Germany into the Eu-
ropean and world economy. Naturally,
Germany’s extreme nationalism must
be purged and democracy firmly est-
ablished. But neither of these goals can
be attained if the German people are
deprived of their livelihood.” Heinz
Eulau in the New Republic.

* *

“If the people of the world need re-
minding of the scope and horror of the
nazi regime’s record, the indictment
drawn up jointly by the Four Powers
will prove a compressed but convincing

30

reminder .. . But the indictment raises
one or two questions, nevertheless. Is

‘it not a most inadequate and superficial

reading of history to dismiss the un-
paralleled upheaval of the German re-
volution as simply a ’conspiracy’, the
plot of a few wicked men? An indict-
ment, naturally, cannot delve into the
deep causes of history any more than
a murder charge can detail the bad en-
vironment, broken homes, or inherited
weaknesses that helped to condition the
criminal. But it would be fatal if the
German disaster were generally written
off as ’a conspiracy’ and no account
taken of the world conditions of inter-
national anarchy and economic depres-
sion which were the background of

Hitler’s rise to power.” The London
Economist.

* *
"Not often has armed _ invasion

brought liberty to the majority of
people in the invaded country ... What
is going on in Germany today, which
includes the imposition of a new Bill
of Rights’ upon that conquered nation,
seems unique ... A similar process 1s
going on in Japan, where an army of
occupation is compelling the Japanese
Government to permit freedom of
speech, to democratize its schools atid
to liberalize its constitution. Neither in
Germany nor Japan are we doing suci
things for sentimental reasons ... We
do not fear attack from any nation in
which the basic freedoms are respected.
Therefore, we are doing what we can
to secure respect for those freedoms
in the nations which attacked us. Forc-
ing freedom on those who didn’t ask
for it is a final act of war. If our recent
enemies are ultimately the happier for
it, we cannot help it.” Editorial in the
New York Times.

--- Page 34 ---
Stafion List

Military Government Elements

“OFFICE OF
UNIT LOCATION MALITARY GOVERNMENT

UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Office of

Mil Govt for

Germany (U.S.) Berlin

Office of ;
Mil Govt (U.S. Zone) Frankftrt

WESTERN MILITARY DISTRICT

Seventh U.S. Army

Office of

Mil Govt

(Western

District) Heidelbérg Western Military District
2d Mil Govt Regiment

(APO 758)

Hq 2d Mil Govt Régt Bad Homburg

Hq Co Baad Homburg

Sv Co Ober Ursel

Ist Maint Plat Zuffenhausen
2d Maint Plat Wetzlar
2d MG Med Det Heidelberg

NORTH WORTTEMBERG-BADEN.

E-1 Stuttgart North Wirtltemberg-
FA Baden
Wirttembérg
Co A Sféttgart
E-1 S Wiitttemberg
F-10 SK Stuttgart
F-11 SK-LK Ulm
G-20 LK Aalen
G-21 LK Boblingen
G-22 LK Crailsheim
G-23 LK Esslingen
G-24 LK Gmiind
G-25 LK Géppingen
G-26 LK Hall
G-27 fieidenheim LK Heidenheim
G-28 eilbronn LK Heilbronn
G-29 Ludwigsburg LK Ludwigsburg
G-30 Waiblingen LK Waiblingen
H-50 Backnang LK Backnang
H-51 Heilbronn SK Heilbronn’
H-52 Kiinzelsau LK Kiinzelsau
H-53 Leonberg LK Leonberg
H-54 Bad Mergentheim LK Mergentheim
H-55 Nirtingen LK Nirtingen
H-56 Ohbringen LK Ohringen
H-57 Ulm Warehouse Opn
H-58 Vaihingen LK Vaihingen
Landesbezirk North Baden
CoE Durlach Landesbezirk
E-7 Karlsruhe =~ North Baden
F-16 Mannheim SK Mannheim
G-42 Weinheim LK Mannheim

G-43 Heidelberg
G-44 Heidelberg
G-45 Ettlingen

G-46 Pforzheim

SK Heidelberg
LK Heidelberg
LK Karlsruhe
SK-LK Pforzheim

31

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay

Maj Gen C L Adcock

Col M O Edwards

Lt Col N F Hines

Ist Lt A W Huck

Ist Lt R. A. Madden
lst Lt E Thompson
Capt T Candon

Lt Col W H Riheldaffer

Col W W_ Dawson

Capt O Martin

Col W W Dawson
Lt Col C L Jackson
Lt Col I. L. Harlow
Maj J K Owen
Capt W A Becker
Lt Col R_L Rogers
Lt Col J 1 Taylor
Capt J N Krajnak
Maj G W Ford

Maj W T Neel

Maj B V Bloom

Lt Col H M Montgomery
Capt H K Manson
Maj H W Freeman
Maj G D Burchell
Maj M L Hoover
Capt W L Straus
Capt R S Dotts
Capt S L Haber
Maj S A Warren
lst Lt M Korson

Lt Col J M Gregory
Capt J G Cox

Ist Lt R T Lynch

Col C Lisle

Lt Col R.S_ Smith
Maj B C Barnes

Lt Col G P Kratz
Capt H D Peterson
Ist Lt W C Hagen Jr.
1st Lt N. Semaschko

--- Page 35 ---
OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

“UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER

G-47 Karlsruhe SK Karlsruhe Maj M S Pullen

H-87 Bruchsal LK Bruchsal Capt O L Hayes

H-88 Foudenheim Warehouse Opn Maj H E Kring

H-89 Buchen LK Buchen Maj J A McGuinness
H-90 Mosbach LK Mosbach Maj N O Moore

H-91 Tauberbischofsheim LK Tauberbischofsheim Capt J F Moyer

H-92 Sinsheim LK Sinsheim Capt G O Withey
1-137 Edingen Warehouse Opn Capt R L Shadwick

LAND GREAT HESSE
E-5 Wiesbaden

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

Co D Weilburg
E-5 Wiesbaden
E-6

a Frankfurt
F-15 Wiesbaden
G-41 Wetzlar
H-77 Dillenburg

H-78 Gelnhausen

H-79 Hanau
H-80 Limburg

H-83 Riidesheim
H-86 Bad Homburg

Regierungsbezirk Kassel _

Co C Kirchain
E-4 Kassel
F-14 Kassel

G-38 Fritzlar

G-39 Marburg
G-40 Fulda

G-48 Korbach
H-65 Eschwege
H-67 Hersfeld
H-68 Hofgeismar
H-70 Melsungen

H-72 Kassel
H-73 Witzenhausen
ML-1 (Sa) Kassel

Regierungsbezirk Hessen

Co B Darmstadt
E-3 Darmstadt
F-12 Darmstadt

F-13 Offenbach
G-31 Bensheim
G-32 Bidingen
G-33 Dieburg
G-34 Friedberg
G-35 Giessen
H-62 Lauterbach

Land Great Hesse

RB Wiesbaden

SK Frankfurt

SK Wiesbaden

LK Wetzlar

LK Dillkreis &

LK Biedenkopf

LK Gelnhausen &
LK Schliichtern
SK-LK Hanau

LK Limburg &

LK Oberlahnkreis
LK Rheingaukreis &
LK Untertaunuskreis
LK Obertaunuskreis &
LK Usingen &

LK Maintaunuskreis

RB Kassel

SK-LK Kassel &

LK Wolfhagen

LK Fritzlar-Homberg &
LK Ziegenhain

SK-LK Marburg

SK-LK Fulda & LK Hiinfeld

Col J R Newman

Capt J L Savannah
Col J R Newman
Lt Col R K Phelps
Lt Col F A Samson
Lt Col E M Lee
Maj D B Bernstein

Maj M E Chotas
Maj T Turner Jr

Capt E F Duffy
Maj J G Gavin
Capt A L Yakoubian

Ist Lt J F_ Owen
Lt Col A Skarry
Maj R Bard

Maj R A Gish

Lt Col T A Brown
Maj E J Dikeman

LK Waldeck & LK Frankenberg Maj J R Chambliss

LK Eschwege

LK Hersfeld

LK Hofgeismar
LK Melsungen &
LK Rotenburg
Warehouse Opn
LK Witzenhausen
Liaison

RB Hessen

SK-LK Darmstadt &

LK Gross-Gerau

SK-LK Offenbach

LK Bergstrasse & LK Erbach
LK Biidingen

LK Dieburg

LK Friedberg

SK-LK Giessen

LK Lauterbach & LK Alsfeld

32

Capt A W Moore
Capt G S Iredell
Capt S C Moore Jr.
Maj T T Turnbull Jr.

Capt J R Newell
Capt W E. Getman
Maj F C Eggers

Ist Lt AL Husted Jr.
Lt Col W T Burt
Lt Col L G Kelly

Lt Col W A Snow
Maj A C Leggatt
Maj L S LaPrade
- Maj E T Cusiek
Maj R_ J Willard
Capt J S Chapin
Capt H Nickelsberg

--- Page 36 ---
UNIT. LOCATION

OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR

COMMANDING OFFICER

BREMEN SUB-DISTRICT

E2C2 Bremen

Gic2 Wesermiinde

H4C2 Osterholz-Scharmbeck
111C2 Brake

112C2 Nordenham

Office of

Mil Govt for

Bavaria Munich

Hq 3d Mil Govt Regt Augsburg

Hq Co Augsburg

Sv Co Augsburg

Ist Maint Plat Augsburg

2d Maint Plat Uttenreuth

3d Maint Plat Straubing

R&TCo Augsburg

3d MG Med Det Munich

3d MG Med Sec Augsburg

BAVARIA

Office of | Munich

Mil Govt

for Bavaria
Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken

CoA Ochsenfurt

E-202 Wiirzburg

F-210 Wiirzburg

G-220 Aschaffenburg

G-221 Schweinfurt

H-250 Bad Kissingen

H-251 Kitzingen

1-330 Alzenau

1-331 Briickenau

1-332 Ebern

1-333 Gemiinden

1-334 Gerolzhofen

1-335 Hammelburg

1-336 Hassfurt

1-337 Hofheim

1-338 Karlstadt

1-339 K6nigshofen

1-340 Lohr

1-341 Marktheidenfeld

1-342 Mellrichstadt

1-343 Miltenberg

1-344 Neustadt Salle

1-345 Obernburg

1-346 Ochsenfurt

Bremen Sub-District
SK-LK ‘Wesermiinde
LK Osterholz

LK Wesermarsch

GM Nordenham

EASTERN MILITARY DISTRICT
Third U.S. Army

Eastern Military District

3d Mil Govt Regt
(APO 403)

Bavaria

RB Mainfranken
SK-LK Wiirzburg
SK-LK Aschaffenburg
SK-LK Schweinfurt
LK Kissingen

LK Kitzingen

LK Alzenau

LK Briickenau

LK Ebern

LK Gemiinden

LK Gerolzhofen

LK Hammelburg
LK Hassfurt

LK Hofheim

LK Karlstadt

LK Kénigshofen

LK Lohr

LK Marktheidenfeld
LK Mellrichstadt
LK Miltenberg

LK Neustadt a. d. Salle
LK Obernburg

LK Ochsenfurt

Regierungsbezirk Ober & Mittelfranken

Co C Ansbach
E-203 Ansbach
F-211 Niirnberg
G-228 Ansbach
G-229 Firth

H-261 Dinkelsbiihl
H-262 Eichstadt
H-263 Feuchtwangen
H-264 Gunzenhausen
H-265 Hersbruck
H-266 Hilpoltstein

RB Ober & Mittelfranken
SK-LK Niirnberg

SK-LK Ansbach

SK-LK Firth

LK Dinkelsbiih!

LK Ejichstadt

LK Feuchtwangen

LK Gunzenhausen

LK Hersbruck

LK Hilpoltstein

33

Lt Col B C Welker
Lt Col L S Diggs
Lt Col J R Reed
Capt M L Krauss
Capt G R Zeek

Brig Gen W. J. Muller

Maj F W Sutton
Capt Wm Irwin
Capt J O'Malley
Capt J O’Malley

Ist Lt C Casper

Ist Lt C. T. Enbody
Capt T J May

Lt Col C Shields
Capt H S Price

Brig Gen W. J. Muller

_ Ist Lt H A Lenert

Lt Col M E Henderson
Maj J.B Bradford
Maj C M Emerick
Maj J B Thompson
Capt M A Potter
Capt J B Lynn
Maj E E Shovea
Capt H B Clark Jr
Capt S L Tulin
Capt K N Galloway
Capt W J Tonkin
Capt E H Emery
Capt T F Griffen
Capt W Hitt

1st Lt W E Brayden
Capt A W Peterson
Capt Elmer E Kelly
Capt M B Voorhees
Capt J. J. Schaller
Capt D J Huffman
Ist Lt E F Warnke
Capt B H Logan
Capt H A Storm

1st Lt G N Hultzen
Col E M Haight

Col C H_ Andrews
Maj W R Whitaker, Jr.
Capt J D.Cofer

Maj J. W. Hall

Maj W T Stoats
Capt J M Hodges Jr.
Maj H W Zurn

Maj F M Dunbaugh
Maj H T Lund

--- Page 37 ---
UNIT LOCATION
H-267 Weissenburg
H-268 Rothenburg
H-269 Schwabach
H-270 Scheinfeld
H-271 Windsheim
H-272 Lauf
H-273 . Neustadt a. d. Aisch
Co B Bamberg
G-222 Bamberg
G-223 Bayreuth
G-224 Erlangen
G-225 Coburg
G-226 Kronach
G-227 Hof
G-247 Lichtenfels
H-252 Ebermannstadt
H-253 Hochstadt
H-254 Kulmbach
H-255 Pegnitz
H-256 Munchberg
H-258 Rehau
H-259 Wunseidel
H 260 Forcheim
1-347 Naila
1-348 Stadtsteinach

OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR

COMMANDING OFFICER

LK Weissenburg

LK Rothenburg

LK Schwabach

LK Scheinfeld

LK Uffenheim |

LK Lauf

LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch

SK-LK Bamberg
SK-LK Bayreuth
LK Erlangen
SK-LK Coburg
LK Kronach
SK-LK Hof

LK Lichtenfels

LK Ebermannstadt
LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
LK Kulmbach

LK Pegnitz

LK Munchberg

LK Rehau

LK Wiunseidel

LK Forcheim

LK Naila

LK Stadtsteinach

Regierungbezirk Niederbayern & Oberpfalz

Co D
E-204
F-212
G-230

G-244
H-274
H-275
H-276
H-277
H-278
H-279
1-349
1-350
1-351
1-352
1-353
1-354
1-355
1-356
1-357
1-358
Co H
G-243
G-245
G-246
H-301
H-302
H-303
H-304
H-305
H-306
H-307
H-308
H-309
H-310
1-375
1-377
1-378

Regensburg
Regensburg
Regensburg
Weiden

Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunburg
Eschenbach
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldmiinchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Regensburg
Passau
Landshut
Straubing
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsiburg
Freyung
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach

RB Niederbayern & Oberpfalz

SK-LK Regensburg

SK Weiden &

LK Neustadt a. d. Wald
SK-LK Amberg

LK Cham

LK Burglengenfeld

LK Parsberg

LK Tirschenreuth

LK Neunburg vorm Wald
LK Eschenbach i. d. Opf.
LK Kemnath

LK Nabburg

LK Oberviechtach

LK Riedenberg

LK Vohenstrauss

LK Roding

LK Waldmitinchen

LK Beilngries

LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg

SK-LK Passau
SK-LK Landshut
SK-LK Straubing
LK Deggendorf
LK Eggenfelden
LK Grafenau

LK Kelheim

LK Landau a. d. Isar
LK Pfarrkirchen
LK Regen

LK Vilshofen

LK Vilsiburg

LK Wolfstein

LK Bogen

LK Dingolfing
LK Griesbach

34

Maj W S Bailey Jr
Maj R C Anderson
Maj R E Stringer
Maj H C Kauffmann
Capt M C Baer
Capt E N Humphrey
Maj F K Hinchey
Ist Lt M J Skwarto
Maj J A Watkins
Lt Col C J Reilly
Lt Col H Hargrave
Maj H Lockland
Maj H I Woodall Jr.
Maj A R Giroux
Maj J R Case

Ist Lt J J Bianchi
Capt R G Hanford
Maj P B Lamson
Maj M F Skinner
Maj A C Abbott
Capt R H Dodds
Capt D H Alexander
Lt Col F Robie
Capt H W Newell
Ist Lt H F Casademont

Capt V A Grasso
Lt Col Hasting
Lt Col S S Speaks

Maj J _C Robertson Jr.
Maj Mattox

Maj C E McDaniel
Capt E. Fichter

Maj H J Mrachek
Capt F P Murray
Maj J J Egan

Capt W R Baylies
Capt W G Montpas
Capt G Doyle

Capt R A Berry
Capt C V Hansen
Capt S Lesneski
Capt C R Bucheit
Capt J E Hudson
Capt J J Mallon
Ist Lt W N Blanton
Capt S. E. Prail

Ist Lt C_G Savelli
Lt Col F W Hanger
Capt A J Wann

Maj H T Olsen
Capt L C Smallenberger
Maj E W Manning
Capt S Perlman
Capt O DeBogdan
Maj R M Stribling
Capt W D Baird
Capt A R Sphar
Capt W. J. Fitzpatrick
Capt J W Fleshman
Capt R W Douglass
Capt A G Albert
Capt B E Reichhardt
Capt A S Gallant

--- Page 38 ---
OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR

UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER
1-379 K6tzting LK Kétzting Ist Lt A Smolens
1-380 Mainburg LK Mainburg Capt W Wickersham
1-381 Mallersdorf LK Mallersdorf Capt S R Jacobs
1-382 Rottenburg LK Rottenburg Capt E A Russo
1-383 Viechtach LK Viechtach Capt J F Vaile
1-385 Wegscheid LK Wegscheid Capt H Walter

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Co F
E-205
F-213
G-236
G-237
G-238
H-286
H-287
H-288
H-289
H-290
H-291

1-362

1-364

1-365

1-367

1-368
Co E
G-231
G-232
G-233
G-234
G-235
H-280
H-281
H-282
H-283
H-284
H-285
H-311

1-361

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Co G
E-206
F-214
G-239
G-240
G-241
G-242
H-292
H-293
H-294
H-295
H-296
H-297
H-298
H-999
H-300

1-369

1-370

1-372

1-373

1-374

Munich , Ist Lt J MacDonough
Munich RB Oberbayern Lt Col J W Hensel
Munich SK-LS Munich Lt Col E Keller Jr
Partenkirchen LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen Maj C H Heyl (actg)
Ingolstadt SK-LK Ingolstadt Capt L H Norins
Munich LK Munich Maj M T Mawrence
Fiirstenfeldbruck LK Fiirstenfeldbriick Capt J J McBride
Landsberg LK Landsberg Capt C A Rein
Pfaffenhofen LK Pfaffenhofen Maj C A Sloat
Starnberg LK Starnberg Capt M Shellenberger
Weilheim LK Weilheim Maj E C Wills
Wolfratshausen LK Wolfratshausen Capt C H Bischoff
Aichach LK Aichach Capt L. R. Day
Schrobenhausen LK Schrobenhausen Capt R G Hill Jr
Munich Bavarian Supply Capt F S Franke
Dachau LK Dachau Ist Lt V A Burke
Schéngau - LK Schéngau Maj C E Carlsen
Wasserburg Capt J T Collier
Freising LK Freising Maj A G Snow
Miesbach LK Miesbach Maj L L Haupt
Traunstein LK Traunstein Maj F L Tracy
Altétting LK Altotting Maj R L Montague
Rosenheim SK-LK Rosenheim Maj R G MacDonald
Erding LK Erding Capt H J Bierman
Laufen LK Laufen Capt S L Jones Jr
Muhldorf LK Miihidorf Maj C E Vickerman
Wasserburg LK Wasserburg Capt M J Groves
Bad Tolz LK Tolz Maj J Letteriello
Aibling LK Aibling Maj E J Newmeyer
Berchtesgaden LK Berchtersgaden Maj M E DiPietro
Ebersberg LK Ebersberg Maj G E Horwarth

Ziemetshausen

Ist Lt O Meirhenry

Augsburg RB Schwaben Col R L Hiles
Augsburg SK-LK Augsburg Lt Col R A Norton
Dillingen LK Dillingen Maj C F Baker
Weissenhorn LK Neu Ulm Maj J A Blakemore
Sonthofen LK Sonthofen Maj A B Ebbers
Kempten SK-LK Kempten Ist Lt B M Ziegler
Donauworth LK Donauworth Maj H L Snapp
Giinzberg LK Ginzberg Capt J G Horrell
Markt Oberdorf LK Mart Oberdorf Capt J O Renalds
Memmingen LK Memmingen Maj R F Wagner
Mindelheim LK Mindelheim Maj E C Bunker
Neuberg LK Neuberg a. d. Donau Capt W H Oswalt
Nordlingen LK Nérdlingen Capt S H Brown
Fiissen LK Fiissen Capt T R Schweer
Krumbach LK Krumbach Ist Lt L. E. Dunn
Illertissen LK IIlertissen Ist Lt F E Kettunen
Kaufbeuren LK Kaufbeuren Maj E M Ross
Wertingen LK Wertingen Capt R E Hale
Friedberg LK Friedberg Maj P S Webb
Schwabmiinchen LK Schwabmiinchen Ist Lt L E Smith

+ 35

--- Page 39 ---
OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR
UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER

U.S. SECTOR, BERLIN DISTRICT

Office of
Mil Govt

(U.S. Sector
Berlin) Berlin U.S. Sector, Berlin District Col F L Howley

(APO 755)

Detachments Disbanded:

2d Mil Govt Regt:

Co B: G-36, H-59, H-60

Co C: H-69, H-71

Co D: H-81

R&T Co

RR Det (Liaison)

Note: Orders for the change of station to Munich of the 3d
Mil Govt Regt Hqs Elements have been rescinded.

36