--- Page 2 ---
No. 20 — 8 DECEMBER 1945

Military Government

Weekly
Information Bulletin

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
WESTERN MILITARY DISTRICT
GREAT HESSE, NORTH WURT TEMBERG-BADEN

?3 OCTOBER 1945

oi BRITISH ZONE

LY
ZieGen-
HAIN: ( HERSFELD

ie

a
AG

LEGEND

REO REGIERUNGSBEZIRKE AND

LANDESBEZIRK BADEN

BLACK —LANDKREISE AND STADTAREISE ‘

TATISTICS SECTION

SOURCE OMG RM! BRANCH / :C GEN STAFF USFET

--- Page 4 ---
No. 20 — 8 DECEMBER 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---
CONTENTS

PAGE

Military Government Letters and Instructions Issued ThisWeek 3

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY. ........ 4
Schools for Democracy. . . . .-. . 2. 2. 4
What is Militarism? . 2... 2 2 1 1 eee 15
The Survival of the Mercenary Tradition . . . . 20
GENERAL ............... . 22
Dyeing of Uniforms Deadline Temporarily Suspended 22
Travel to Berlin. . . 2. 2... 1. 22
Special Yule Curfew. . . . . 1... . 1. 22
Priority Labor Needs... . ..... . . 22
Civilian Rail Traffic. 2. 0... OD
Disbandment Directive . . .......~. 27
GERMAN REACTIONS .......... 23
The German and Foreign News. . . . . . . . 23
Last Warning to All Concerned. . . . . . . . 24
The City Council Meets. . . . . . ... . 25
VOICES OF EXPERIENCE. ....... . 26
PRESS COMMENTS... ....... . 28
Policy Changes Seen Result of Price Report. . . 28
Nirnberg Trials 2. 2 2. 2. 2 2. 1... 29
European Elections . . ....... . +. 30
In the Far East. 2. 2. 2. 2... 30
Random Comments ....... . . . . 30
PERSONNEL DATA ra ¥)
Qualifications for Civilian Jobs. . 2... . . . 32
Information Control Division Offers Job Positions . 34
Promotions re 7!
Station List 2 2 2. 2. ee 85

--- Page 6 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT LETTERS AND
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED DURING THE WEEK

Amendment to the Directive to Commanding Generals, Military
Districts, dated 7 July 1945, Subject: Administration of Military
Government in the U. S. Zone of Germany.

Amendment to Section XXV, (Reports and

Information)

Removal of Nazis and Militarists in the German Reichsbahn
and Other Fields of Transport (revision of Letter dated
31 August, same file number and subject) .

Organization and Responsibility :for the Supervision of Civil
Transportation in Germany

10 November 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO

26 November 1945 (file
AG 014.3 GEC-AGO)

27 November 1945 (file
AG 322.011 GEC-AGO)

--- Page 7 ---
Hightights of Policy

SCHOOLS

for DEMOCRACY

Part |
Elementary and Secondary Schools

By Robert S. Berlin

Military Government inherited from
the nazis a German educational system
perverted by nazi doctrine and crippled
by: the war. During the early weeks
of the occupation, Military Government
authorities in the field, faced with
emergency problems of reorganizing
and purging German civil administra-
tion, caring for and _ repatriating
displaced persons, and restoring com-
munications and transportation, could
spare little time for the broader and
more abstract task of reforming and
revitalizing education in Germany on
a democratic basis.

However, more and more attention
and increasingly greater efforts are
now being exerted by Military Govern-
ment throughout the U. S. Zone in
order to accomplish one of the basic
aims enunciated at the Potsdam
Conference. The conference report
stated: “German education shall be so
controlled as completely to eliminate
nazi and militarist doctrines and to
make possible the successful develop-
ment of democratic ideas”. Expressed
thus, in one sentence, is a double
responsibility which Military Govern-
ment must assume and accomplish if
the cause for which we fought, and
the basic reason for which Military

“German education shall be so
controlled as completely to elim-
inate nazi and militarist doc-
trines and to make possible the
successful development of demo-
cratic ideas’ — The Potsdam
Agreement, August 1945,

Government now exists in Germany,
is to be justified and realized.

In order to understand how funda-
mental and far-reaching the reforma-
tion of the German educational system
must be, it is necessary to survey the
history of its development prior to
1933 and its perversion under national
socialism.

COMPULSORY SCHOOLING
300 YEARS OLD

More than 300 years ago, in 1619,
the first compulsory school attendance
law was proclaimed in the State of
Saxe-Weimar. After 1763, when the
General School Regulations of Fred-
erick the Great came into . force
in Prussia, the principle of compulsory
school attendance up to the age of
thirteen or fourteen was generally
accepted throughout the present area
of Germany; a policy which was

--- Page 8 ---
reaffirmed by the Empire, the Weimar
Republic, and by the nazis. In addition,
the Weimar Constitution prescribed
a minimum of three years of further
instruction after the elementary
course had been completed. Under the
nazis, this three-year requirement was
cut to two years for those children
engaged in agriculture.

Education under both the Empire
and the Weimar Republic was
decentralized, with the individual
states, through their Ministries of
Education, exercising complete control
over all phases of school and univer-
sity administration.

Traditionally, the principal aim of
all teaching was viewed as_ the
striving after truth, and schools were
expected to provide a general rather,
than a vocational education. This was
particularly true of the secondary
schools and universities, where the
emphasis was placed upon the classics,
and the goal was the production of
a literate people led ‘by a small intel-
lectual elite.

WEIMAR ATTEMPTS SCHOOL REFORM

The framers of the Weimar
Constitution sought to provide a
foundation for a _ liberal. and
progressive educational’ system. ‘The
Constitution guaranteed freedom in the
arts and sciences, the rights of
minorities to education in their own
language, the right of parents to
educate their children, and the free
choice of schools. Opportunities were
to be provided whereby all gifted
children could receive a higher edu-
cation. In all schools, teaching was
to aim at developing personalities of
moral stability, well prepared for
their future social and professional
life.

Very few basic reforms were
achieved by the Republic, as religious
differences and the sharp cleavage
between. Bavaria and the rest of Ger-

many made it difficult to gain support
for the necessary unifying legislation.
The various Lander, therefore, conti-
nued to follow their own traditional
educational patterns, and, when the
nazis came to power in 1933, the
educational system prevailing in Ger-
many did not differ radically from
that which had existed under the Em-
pire. Actually, the only major demo-
cratic reform accomplished during the
Weimar period was the abolishment
of the special elementary schools (Vor-
schule) for prospective secondary
school students and the requirement
that every German attend the free,
public elementary schools (Grund-
schule) for the first four years.

HIGHER EDUCATION UNDEMOCRATIC

Generally, education in Germany
was characterized by a marked social
division. While attendance for the first
four years at a free, public elementary
school was compulsory for all, only
the wealthier classes could ordinarily
afford the expenses incurred _ in
progressing to a secondary school. As
a result, under both the Empire and
the ‘Weimar Republic, there were
approximately. twelve times as many
students in elementary as in second-
ary schools.. The secondary schools
were intended,: primarily, for students
preparing to enter upon either a civil
service or professional career.

Since the traditional secondary
school course extended for nine years,
few lower-income families could afford
the relatively high tuition fees and
the loss of a youth’s earning power
for so long a period. To ease this
situation, the Weimar Republic
established secondary schools with a
six year course (Aufbauschule) in order
to permit needy students to enter high
school after six instead of four years
of elementary schooling. In addition,
scholarships were provided for
exceptionally gifted students, but both

--- Page 9 ---
measures, comparatively limited in
scope, proved relatively ineffective in
bridging the. gap between elementary
and secondary school education.

. During the twentieth century, a

multiplicity of secondary school types
developed, differing principally in
curricula. The oldest type, the Gym-
nasium, was the traditional classical
school. Other popular types comprised
the Realgymnasium which emphasized
Latin and modern languages; the Ober-
realschule which stressed mathematics
and natural sciences, and the Deutsche
Oberschule, a creation of the Weimar
Republic, which concentrated on Ger-
man and history.

VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS POPULAR

Those‘students who could not afford,
or who were incapable of following a
secondary: school curriculum, usually

- continued their education for the full
eight: years of the elementary . school
‘(Volksschule). After graduation’ they
either ~enrolled for courses - at~a
continuation school (Fortbildungs-
schule) or entered a vocational. school.
Many different types of these:-schools
existed, specializing in trades, commer-
eial studies,: and. agriculture. Under
the Republic, about” 70 - per «cent ~ of
the. youths ‘eligible - were - attending
some sort of: vocational .-school.

There had also existed :.an -inter-
mediate. school, the. Mittelschule, which

. provided education at a:nominal cost

for students. until.the age of sixteen.
Graduates of these schools could, if
they were capable, continue on to
‘secondary schools and _ universities.
After 1931, graduates of the Mittel-
schule were also eligible for: clerical
positions in the professional civil
service ranks. The number of such
schools had, however, been decreasing
in favor of the formal secondary school
for more than a. century,:.and, under
the nazis, virtually passed out of
existence.

“The development of mental capa-
city is only of secondary impor-
tance”. A. Hitler, “Mein
Kampf”.

The nazis did not radically alter
the existing administrative educational
structure, but they imposed upon it
an educational philosophy which
completely perverted and distorted ‘the
principles which had been developed
over. the course of the preceding 150
years. Instead of the development of
a harmoniously integrated individual
provided with a general culture, the
nazis proposed an education which
would “ensure the instruction of Ger-
man youth in the spirit of national
socialism”.

The initial paragraph of a nazi
directive on the elementary school
states: “It is.the task of the German,
School, together with other. nazi. edu-
cational instruments, to. educate the
youth...of our nation :in.:such .a+ way
that they become spiritually and
intellectually strong German men and
women: who, firmly rooted inthe home
soil and nationhood,.are- prepared to
sacrifice themselves for the Fiihrer.and

the penple. It is not the task of. the
:elementary. school:: to. impart ‘a .vast
--body of knowledge forthe personal use

of :the individual. It has to .develop
and harness all physical and mental
powers of youth for the service of
the State. Therefore, only ‘those sub-
jects. which are necessary to achieve
this aim have any place in the school
curriculum”.

EDUCATION CENTRALIZED
IN. REICH MINISTRY

Centralized. control. over all phases
of education was obviously a_pre-
requisite to:the complete indoctrination
of. German youth, and therefore, on
May 1, 1934, the nazis established the
Reich Ministry of Education. Its func-

--- Page 10 ---
tion was to issue all legislative
measures pertaining to education and
to supervise the execution of such
legislation by the delegated Land
authorities. The Ministry was charged
with regulating school attendance,
initiating administrative changes in
the. schools, determining curricula,
establishing teaching standards, and
selecting textbooks. All teachers
throughout Germany were incorporated
into the Reich Civil Service, but the
Minister of Education had the power
to appoint and dismiss all teaching
personnel. He. exercised that power
directly, however, only in the case of
university professors,

The Reich Ministry of Education
was actually superimposed upon the
existing educational system, for the
individual Lander retained some degree
of control and responsibility for their
schools. The Lander continued to be
responsible for their own educational
finances and for the personnel policy
of all but university staffs.

NAZIS REGIMENT TEACHERS

Above all else, the nazis considered
it of paramount importance to make
the educational system the means by
which the youth of the nation would
be moulded to the needs of the: State.
Tremendous . pressure was, therefore,
exerted to draw teachers and school
administrators into. the ranks of the
Nazi party and to eradicate opposition
wherever manifested or even suspec-
ted. To-a far greater extent -than. in
most other ‘professions, the nazis won
adherents among, German educators.
Even under the Weimar Republic, the
teachers were predominantly reaction-
ary, and, therefore, even before 1933,
the nazis had gained-from among them
many converts who devoted themselves
to the undermining of the Republic.

A paragraph ‘in an official Prussian
publication illustrates the situation in
the: late twenties: “We cannot’ con-

clude the chapter on the secondary
schools without: touching one appar-
ently sore spot — the political atti-
tude of the teachers’ councils ....
There are doubtless teachers who have
still not. recovered from the collapse
of the old regime (the Empire) and
who feel unable to adopt a positive
attitude towards the Republic. There
are even teachers who abuse their
position as friends and leaders of our
youth and deliberately inculcate hostil-
ity towards the People’s State”.

Where opposition appeared, the
nazis found it: comparatively easy to
break down resistance. Before a
teacher could be- promoted, his local
nazi party organization: was asked for
a political evaluation. Resistance meant
either no promotion, transfer to: a less
desirable area or school, or even: dis-
missal The National. Soceialist
Teachers League.(NS Lehrerbund) was
one of the means by which: the nazis
linked the teachers of Germany to the
NSDAP: Membership in the NSLB was
compulsory; in August 1942, it-elaimed
360,000 teacher-members and carried
on continuous’ nazi indoctrination
within its ranks.

SCHOOLS AND
UNIVERSITIES PERVERTED

The nazis exploited every possible
method to influence German youth:
Textbooks in every subject were tuned
to the national socialist doctrines. Ele-
mentary school arithmetics stated;
“One Hitler Jugend plus one Hitler
Jugend makes two: good : nazis”. A
primer, in a story entitled, “We March:
to War’, impressed its young readers
with the fact that “Our Fihrer does
not want to make war at all,.but the
enemy forces. him‘ to do so. When,
the Fiihrer commands, we soldiers: go.
to war”.

The aim of geography was “to edu-
cate the youth to be 100° per cent
Germans and 100 per cent nazis”, In

--- Page 11 ---
biology, students were. taught the
“biological nonsense of equality”.

Even the universities, proud of their
ancient traditions of freedom of
teaching and learning (Lehr- und Lern-
freiheit), were forced into the nazi
mould. Courses on racial biology and
German war history replaced humanis-
tic studies which were anathema to
the nazis. The universities were prosti-
tuted to invest national socialism with
the glamor of research and intellectual
thought. Scores of Germany’s eminent
men of science and letters, men who
had made universities such as Heidel-
berg and Munich famous throughout
the world, were dismissed, exiled, or
thrown into concentration camps
whenever they refused to fall into line.
The Rector of Berlin University declar-
ed that its aim was to “eliminate the
dregs of a past liberal age”, and the
leader of the National Socialist League
of German University Teachers stated,
“the German University will be nazi
or it will not exist at all”.

The nazis’ racial purge of education
began in the universities as early as
1933, and what reservations existed
were swept away by the Niirnberg
Laws of 1935. Under its terms, not
even lecturers who had non-Aryan
wives were permitted to retain their
posts. A decree of April 1933 limited
the proportion of non-Aryan students
to 1.5 per cent, and those admitted
were subjected to severe restrictions.
They were excluded from medical and
other professional examinations, and,
after 1987 no full Jew was allowed
to take the doctorate. Part Jews could
do so only with ministerial permis-
sion, Similarly, a Ministry of Education
decree of March 1935 completely
barred Jews from public secondary
schools, and a further decree in 1938
extended the ban to all public and
private elementary schools.

INTELLECTUAL TRAINING
DISCOURAGED

Generally, the nazi attitude toward
education in the early years of the
Hitler regime was anti-intellectual. The
greatest emphasis was placed by the
nazis on the moulding of youth to
obey rather than to question, and
vocational training was stressed at the
expense of general, cultural education.
By 1937, a distinct decrease in second-
ary school and university attendance
had become apparent, and the nazis,
alarmed at the threatened depletion
of the professions, the civil service,
the Officer Corps, and the leading
strata in business and industry, revers-
ed their entire policy. Attemps were
made to increase the number of
secondary schools, and _ university
attendance was encouraged. This po-
licy was adhered to even during the
war, and members of the. German
armed forces were granted leaves and
furloughs to attend the universities.
Women, too, were increasingly encour-
aged to take up higher education, and
all quotas on their attendance at uni-
versities were discarded. Despite the
change in policy, however, enrollment
at institutions of higher learning con-
tinued to decline, and by 1939 had
fallen more than 50 per cent below
the attendance for the winter of 1932-33.

The nazis further damaged the edu-
cational structure by introducing the
leadership principle (Fihrerprinzip) in-
to the schools. Teachers became fol-
lowers rather than leaders, and the
autocratic power of the school princi-
pal, or, in the case of the universities,
of the Rector and the faculty Deans,
effectively reduced the prestige and
self-esteem of the subordinate mem-
bers of the profession. Furthermore,
the relatively low salaries paid to
elementary school teachers and the
slowness of promotion at all levels re-
sulted in a serious decline in the num-
bers of candidates for teacher-training

--- Page 12 ---
institutes and for teacher appointments,
The war decimated the ranks of the
profession, and in 1943 the Bavarian
Minister-President estimated that at
least 50 per cent of the teachers were
serving in the armed forces and that
another ten per cent were engaged in
war industries where the financial re-
turn “was considerably higher. As a
result, the nazis were forced to recall
many teachers from retirement and to
lower teacher standards to maintain
even minimum staffs.

NEW SCHOOLS FOR FUTURE HITLERS

Despite the vigorous efforts expend-
ed to nazify the secondary schools, the
nazis found it necessary to establish
special secondary schools to train a
select party élite to serve as the future
Gauleiters and standard bearers of na-
tional socialism. These new schools
were of three types: The National
Political Educational Institutes (Na-
pola), the German State Boarding
Schools, and the Adolf Hitler Schools.
The selection and supervision of the
pupils of these schools were under-
taken partly by the SS and partly by
the NSDAP. The schools were free
boarding schools and entrance was
based upon the political reliability and
importance of the parents, the racial
purity of the family, and the degree
to which the pupil had distinguished
himself in the Hitler Jugend. The re-
sultant product of the school was a
guaranteed, 100 per cent nazi whose
education had been based on _ in-
tolerance, glorification of Germany and
Germandom, and on a idealization of
war and conquest as the crowning
achievements of man.

WAR COMPLETES SCHOOL
BREAKDOWN
In the last two years of the war,
the ever-increasing demands of the
armed forces and the staggering impact
of the Allied air offensives against Ger-

man cities hastened the deterioration
of the German school system. Young-
sters of secondary school age, boys of
fourteen and fifteen, were serving in
anti-aircraft units at the front, and
bombings of large cities had forced
the evacuation of hundreds of thousands
of younger children into rural areas
where adequate school facilities were
not available.

When the war ended, therefore, Mili-
tary Government authorities found the
German school system virtually par-
alyzed. In most of the larger cities of
the U.S. Zone, schools had been clos-
ed for many months before American
troops arrived. In Heidelberg; for
example, even though the city was vir-
tually untouched, schools had been
closed since the summer of 1944, Mili-
tary Government education officials
were thus confronted with an educa-
tional system which was _ physically
crippled and _ intellectually distorted
and stagnant.

Military Government found a di-
seased and paralyzed German
educational system, requiring both
antiseptic and therapeutic treat-
ment,

It was obvious even before occu-
pation that rehabilitation of German
education would not be enough; the
task was virtually one of re-creation.
Education for democracy could not be
erected on the poisoned foundation of
nazi educational philosophy; new philo-
sophies and ideals could not be grafted
on old and withered roots.

The initial step, therefore, was to
close all educational institutions and to
prohibit all teaching. All nazi-devel-
oped secondary schools were per-
manently abolished. Directives em-
phasized that only when all undesirable
teachers had been eliminated, when the
schools had been freed from nazism

--- Page 13 ---
and militarism, and when an adequate
supply of satisfactory teaching ma-
terials, including textbooks, was avail-
able, would the schools be reopened.

October ist was set as the target
date for the opening of all eight grades
of the elementary schools throughout
the U.S.Zone. After the elementary
schools had been opened, immediate
steps were to be taken to reopen
secondary schools and institutions : of
higher learning.

DENAZIFICATION
FUNDAMENTAL STEP

Education officers throughout the
U.S. Zone placed their primary em-
phasis on the selection of politically
reliable administrative and teaching
staffs. Policy decisions had been made
to maintain the basic school admin-
istrative organization at Land and
Kreis levels, and the first step was
thus the temporary selection and ap-
pointment of Kreis school supervisors
(Kreisschulrate) and the reorganization
of the various Land ministries of edu-
cation. After these officials had been
carefully vetted for their political re-
liability, they were instructed to pre-
pare lists of available teachers and to
distribute fragebogen to all teachers
whom they proposed to use.

The results of this meticulous meth-
od of selection give ample proof of
the success with which the nazis had
gained control of the German educational
system. In Wiirzburg, for example, 92
per cent of the teachers within the
Land and Stadtkreis were nazi party
members. Approximately 75 per cent
of the available teachers in Regierungs-
bezirk Schwaben had also been party
members. Similarly, denazification in
Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern-Ober-
pfalz resulted in the removal of between
75 and 80 per cent of the teachers, raising
the over-all teacher-pupil ratio in the
area to the staggering figure of one
to 175. Though the proportion of re-
movals varied from one area of. the

10

Zone to another, generally, only a rela-
tively small percentage of those teach-
ers who taught under the nazi
regime could be retained. Denazifica-
tion thus. presented educational
authorities with their greatest problem,
for without teachers, all other efforts
towards reopening the schools became
meaningless.

Many expedients designed to alle-

viate the problem have been adopted,
and though some progress has been

made, teacher scacity remains the
principal obstacle to the full re-
establishment of schools in the. U.S.
Zone.

DAMAGED SCHOOLS POSE PROBLEM

At the same time, the availability and
physical condition of school buildings
presented another serious problem. In
many cities, Allied air raids had
destroyed and damaged the greater
percentage of existing school plants.
In Munich, for example, reports in-
dicated that ten per cent of the
schools had been totally destroyed, 78
per cent required more or less ex-
tensive repairs, and only twelve per
cent were undamaged. Niirnberg, Augs-
burg, Mannheim, Frankfurt, and Karls-
ruhe were also badly hit. Every effort
has been made to effect emergency
repairs, but acute shortages of con-
struction materials have severely
hampered reconstruction.

Furthermore, the nazis, in the last
months of the war, had _ converted
many schools into emergency military
hospitals, and U.S. Army use of others
for troop billets, hospitals, and dis-
placed persons barracks further limit-
ed the number of available school
buildings. The Army has, however, re-
turned many of these schools to the
German authorities upon request of
Military Government.

EMERGENCY TEXTS DISTRIBUTED
Another major problem which re-
quired solution before the schools could

--- Page 14 ---
be reopened was that of assuring ade-
quate educational supplies, primarily
textbooks. Immediately upon  occu-

_ pation, all textbooks in use in the Ger-
man schools were impounded. As an
emergency measure, pending production
of acceptable texts by the Germans,
pre-19383 texts were selected for use
in the schools. These books have been
printed in Germany, and more than
325,000 books were distributed by Oc-
tober 5th. Twenty-one emergency texts
were selected for publication, including
books for use in all eight elementary
school grades; nine were readers, five
arithmetics, four nature studies, and
three histories.

In addition, post-1933 texts are being
carefully screened. A large percentage
of those thus far vetted have been
found acceptable, although in some
cases revisions had to be made. Ori-
ginal texts, now being written by Ger-
mans, and new revisions of old texts,
are proving, however, to be generally
satisfactory.

To date, much has been achieved
in meeting and adjusting the problems
which have arisen. The October 1st
target for the opening of elementary
schools in the U.S. Zone was met,
and approved secondary schools are
now being reopened daily.

The following table, showing the
status of elementary schools in the
U.S. Zone for October 1st and Nov-
ember 1st, clearly indicates the progress
which has been made and the problems
which still exist.

ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS

1Oct 45 1Nov45
Pupils in School . . 1,200,174 1,576,553
Pupils not in School 510,866 404,861
Percentage
of Pupils in School 70.10 79.60
Teachers Employed . 14,176 19,947
Additional
Teachers needed . . 16,896 13,637
Percentage
of Teachers needed . 54.3 40.6
Pupils per Teacher . . . 84 79

W

10ct45 1Nov 45

School Plants in Use .. 6,182 8,606
Schools in Temporary
Quarters... 5 265 240
Schools Used for Other
Purposes than Teaching 400 679

Education for democracy requires
dynamic, convincing leaders, The
most perplexing M. G. problem
is finding teachers to act as lead-
ers for German youth.

With the rapid reopening of
secondary schools, the problem of
teacher procurement has assumed more
serious proportions. Because of their
added prestige and higher civil service
status, the nazis were even more
thorough in their selection and control
of secondary school teachers, and thus
an even larger proportion of them have
proved to be in the mandatoryremoval
category. Furthermore, many secondary
schoolteachers have been appointed to
elementary’ school positions and, there-
fore, many of the secondary schools with-
in the U.S. Zone are at present unable to
open for lack of teachers. Here, too,
the decline in secondary and university
attendance under the nazis has wrought
its havoc in that there are now few
properly trained teachers who can
satisfy the education standards of the
secondary schools.

To meet this situation, emergency
teacher-training programs, initially or-
ganized under Military Government di-
rection before the opening of the’
elementary schools, are being continued
and accelerated. In most cases, Ger-
man school officials have been exeed-
ingly reluctant to lower teaching
standards, but Military Government
authorities are spans them to
appoint potentially capable teachers
who are as yet untrained. In many
Kreise, such assistant-teachers are
being usefully employed. Very often,
they teach:five days per week, and

--- Page 15 ---
Typical of the conditions prevailing in many of the heavily-damaged cities of the U.S. Zone is

this picture of school children entering an elementary school in Bremen on opening day. Unless

the boarded windows can be replaced by glass, winter will make the continuance of classes ex-
tremely difficult.

Before the formal reopening of the schools, Bremen schoolboys were kept busy rehabilitating

public places under the direction of the local school authorities, These boys of twelve to sixteen

were filling shell holes in a church yard. In many cities all over the U.S. Zone, such programs
were developed to keep youth usefully employed and off the streets.

12

--- Page 16 ---
on the sixth day attend teacher-train-
ing classes organized by the local
Schulrat. Considerable emphasis is
being placed upon in-service training
as a means of accomplishing maximum
results with the minimum waste of
necessary personnel.

At the same time, plans are being
pushed for the reopening of regular
teachers colleges. At Weilburg
(Greater Hessen), the teachers college,
closed by the nazis in 1939, is expect-
ed to open shortly. The college faculty
has already been screened and approv-
ed, as has the greater proportion of
the student body. Of the 1,100 appli-
cants, approximately 200-250 will be
accepted. It is expected that these
students will be able to begin teaching
sometime next Spring.

TEACHERS OVERBURDENED

Meanwhile, the task of the present
teachers is extremely difficult. Not
only are they carrying a pupil load
which makes adequate teaching almost
impossible — in some Kreise, classes
run to more than 100 pupils — but
they are equally handicapped by. a uni-
versal lack of classroom equipment.
In the elementary schools, textbooks
have been distributed to all grades —
usually two children share one book —
but other materials such as chalk, copy
books, and paper are in extremely short
supply. It is frequently impossible to
assign written homework, for example,
because the students do not have the
books in which to write. In secondary
schools, where even textbooks are often
not available, the situation is even more
difficult. ,

Emergency measures to. extend
schooling to all children under
fourteen have resulted in many scheols
running in two or three shifts, thus
shortening the daily schedules for the
students and lengthening them for the
teachers. In some rural areas, .two
Gemeinden occasionally share the ser-

13

vices of the only available teacher, with
the schools open in each town on alter-
nate days, or in one village in the
morning and in the other in the after-
noon.

Responsibility for the operation of
the school system has been placed in
the hands of the Germans, but Mili-
tary Government is keeping close check
on the schools. Local Military Gov-
ernment educat'on officers accompanied
by the local Schulrat make unannounc-
ed spot checks of schools in their areas.
No major attempts on the part of
school officials or teachers to evade
Military Government directives have
been reported thus far. In some in-
stances, nazi documents have been un-
covered in schools and have been im-
pounded. Usually, the failure to remove
such books has been attributed to the
inexperience and neglect of the teacher
or official, rather than to a deliberate
failure to comply with regulations.
Immediate disciplinary action, in the
form of suspension or dismissal of
the responsible individual, is taken
when such conditions are found to
exist.

Military Government is encouraging
and assisting those administrators, who
are actively anti-nazi, in their efforts
to: re-orient their present teaching
staffs. If our aim to bring democracy
to German and to set German youth
on the road to world co-operation is to
succeed, every effort must be devoted
to the creation of an active pro-demo-
cratic core of German teachers.

WINTER MAY CURTAIL SCHOOLS

Currently, much of the progress that
has already been accomplished is
threatened by the approach of winter.
Most city schools: are equipped ‘for
central heating only, and, since fuel
is unavailable, it is feared that many
will be forced to close. Furthermore,
lack of glass and roofing material will
make it impossible to use many schools

--- Page 17 ---
which were opened in late summer. At-
tempts are being made to keep the
schools open, if, necessary only long
enough to assign homework to the
students, but the critical shortages in
slates and copybooks and in secondary
textbooks may make even that ex-
pedient unworkable. Some _ schools,
particularly those in rural areas, which
are heated by wood stoves, may, of
course, be able to continue.

_ Whether the schools are temporarily
forced to close or not, however, the
foundations have been laid. It is to be
hoped that the present German
educators will continue to work toward
the goal expressed by the Bavarian
Minister of Education and Religion, on
opening a _ teachers conference on
August 27th. He declared: “The values
of true culture, working for mutual
understanding, for humanity, freedom,
for the respect of the convictions of
other. peoples, states, and nations, for
all. that must be sacred to mankind,
must be communicated to our youth
in a new spirit and with a new atti-
tude so that our youth may comprehend
it as values, as an inner valuation and
a basis of a new existence worthy of
a human being”.

Military. Government has thus far
achieved a creditable record in tha
re-establishment of the | German
educational. system, in so far as. Ger-
man children are once again attending
schools — schools now cleansed of
nazi leadership and doctrine — and the
higher institutions are also ready to
resume operations. But, from now on,
the greater part. of the burden lies
on the shoulders of the German edu-
cators themselves. Henceforth, Mili-
tary Government: will exercise only
supervisory functions to insure that
the schools are complying. with its
policies.

THE TASK AHEAD

Perhaps the most serious complaint

that has been leveled at the present,

14

situation concerns the lack of positive
education: for democracy. Demilitari-
zation and denazification have gener-
ally been accomplished, but the more
subtle task of inculcating democratic
ideas has not yet been markedly
successful. Military Government ob-
servers have expressed the view that
the present teaching staff appears to
be composed of individuals who are
theoretically non-nazi, but only a very
small .percentage of them can _ be
considered anti-nazi and positively pro-
democratic. A large number of teachers
are themselves in an intellectual void, and
their efforts are thus essentially nega-
tive rather than positive. Teaching, for
many of them, represents only security
and a refuge from the bitter physical
labor of reconstruction, rather than a
challenge for positive action.

German youth cannot be re-educated
in a day or in a year. The poison
which national socialism poured into
the educational system: for twelve
years cannot be removed from the
minds of young Germans as it can
from books with shears and paste-pot.
The teachersof Germany must by
their own personal example in living
democracy make the meaning of demo-
cracy clear and worthy of adoption by
the youth they lead.

The process of re-education must be
contiziuous; for’ in substance it involves
the complete reshaping of the mental-
ity, ‘the attitudes, and’ the ideals of
an‘entire people. It is the’ most diffi-
cult task confronting the German
people,’ but it’ must be relentlessly
pursued and finally accomplished if Ger-
many is ever to regain its right to the
respect atid confidence of the free
nations of the world.

The universities, the fountainheads of German
intellectual. thought, will be discussed in Part Il
of “Schools-for Democracy” in the next issue.

--- Page 18 ---
What is Mlilitacism?

The following article is intended only as a
guide to assist. Military Government and Special
Branch officers to understand and -recognize the
background and forces that forstered militarism
in Germany. Membership in one of the. mili-
taristic-minded organizations listed does not .ne-
cessarily constitute proof in itself that the person
was a militarist or a supporter of militarism.
However, it does indicate that a further and
complete investigation of the person in question
is warranted. The eradication of militarism is one
of the expressed war aims of the United States,
and it is the responsibility of every Military Gov-
ernment officer to search for and root out all
active militarists in his respective jurisdiction.

A German militarist does not neces-
sarily have to be a member of the
regular German Army. Militaristic
indoctrination and ideologies have
traditionally been widespread among
certain sections of the German people.
Moreover, many of those circles ex-
tremely active in pro‘essing and further-
ing militarism were composed of some
members who never had contact with
the German Army itself. In order to
understand this phenomenon, it is neces-
sary to examine the history and
manifestations of this German engen-
dered concept of power and aggression
which has twice forced the United
States into war.

Frederick William I, father of Freder-
ick the Great, is generally regarded
as the father of Prussian militarism,
although the German militaristic tradi-
tion goes back much further to. the
medieval German feudal system. The
modern German state was founded in
1871 as a result of two successful
wars: 1866 against Austria and 1870

15

against France. Since then various
groups and organizations have been
active in promoting the ideals of Ger-
man militarism, the most important
being. the “Alldeutscher Verband”
(Pan-Germanic League). Founded in
1891 in opposition to the Anglophile
policy of the Bismarck government,
the League was financed and support-
ed. by heavy industry. It stood for
militarism and helped to create the
psychology which led to the outburst
of jingo hysteria on August 1st, 1914
when spontaneous militaristic demon-
strations took place in numerous cities
throughout all Germany following
news of German mobilization.

DEVELOPMENTS AFTER 1918
After the end of World War I, a

large number of young German
fanatics and unemployed soldiers,
raised with the ideals of Ger-

man militarism, did not cease to
the “Freikorps”, they joined the White
Russians in their fight against the Red
Army in the Ukraine and Baltics,
fought against the short-lived commu-
nistic government in Bavaria, and the
Polish occupation of Pomerania and
Upper Silesia. Most of these Freikorps
later formed the "Tannenberg Bund".
In March 1920, an intensified nation-
alistic and militaristic propaganda
campaign led to the Kapp Putsch
which aimed to replace the liberal Ger-
man government with a strong mili-
taristic regime. After the failure of
the Kapp Putsch, many of its ardent
supporters united in the “Deutsch-
nationale Volkspartei".

--- Page 19 ---
Junker and Industrialists. For many
decades a comparatively small but
extremely powerful group had guided
the destiny of Germany. The key. men
of this group were the so-called
“Junkers”, members of the old Prussian
aristocracy who were mainly the great
landlords of extensive properties in
East Prussia, Silesia, Pomerania and
Mecklenburg. Also included in. this
oligarchy were the leaders of the West
German industry. Around this nucleus
a political party was formed in 1918
which attracted the support of the
nationalistic conservative elements in
Germany, the Deutschnationale Volks-
partei (DNVP).

After a few changes of leadership
within this party, the command was
taken over by Alfred Hugenberg, one
of the chieftains of German industry,
owner of a large newspaper publishing
concern (Scherl) and of Germany’s
largest movie industry (UFA). A for-
mer managing director of the Krupp
armament plant, Hugenberg later
became chairman of the Steel Associa-
tion. and other important industrial
organizations.

The DNVP stood for the reactivation
and strengthening of the German army,
rearmament, reincorporation of parts
of the Reich which had been ceded
to the Allies at Versailles, recovery
of the colonies and opposition to the

principles of the Weimar Republic. |

The DNVP not only exerted a great
influence in the Germany Army, but
it fostered and supported as well a
number of military and para-military
organizations. The largest of these was
the Stahlhelm with an estimated
strength of more than 600,000 men,
mostly veterans, commanded by former
Army: officers. Of all the military or-
ganizations which existed in Germany
prior to 1933, with the exception of
the regular army, the Stahlhelm was
the best trained and best disciplined.
A special order issued by Hitler in

16

1933 made it possible for every mem-
ber of the Stahlhelm to join the ranks
of the SA, and its former, president,
Seldte, was appointed to the Nazi
cabinet. as Minister of Labor.

GROUPS AFFILIATED WITH DNVP

Other nationalistic military organi-
zations which were direct’y or indirect-
ly ‘connected with the DNVP were
the Reichsbund Deutscher Offiziere,
the afforementioned Tannenberg Bund,
the Bund Deutsche Osten and the Kyff-
haduser Bund. The Kyffhauser Bund
consisted mostly of extremely national-
istic veterans of World War I and
later on was swallowed by various
Nazi organizations, especially the
Reichskrieger Bund and the NSKOV.
The Bund Deutsche Osten aimed
toward the expansion of Germany to
the East (Poland, Ukraine and the Bal-
tics), advocating the political slogan
of the “Drang Nach Osten“. A similar
idea, though on a more scientific and
philosophical basis, was advocated by
the Fichte Bund.

Closely. connected to the DNVP was
the organization of the Volksbund fir
das. Deutschtum im Ausland (VDA).
Its main. purpose was the fortification
and support. of German minority
groups in foreign countries and propa-
ganda for Germanism. The former war
minister, Gessler, notorious as the
father of the Schwarze Reichswehr
(Black Army) which was a device to
increase the strength of the German
Army against the conditions of Ver-
sailles, became chairman of the VDA
in 1931. In 1933 the VDA had 2,923
Ortsgruppen, and through theDeutsches
Auslandsinstitut edited 335 foreign
newspaper and 654 magazines. Its
files contained the names of all organi-
zations devoted to questions of Ger-
manism in foreign countries. In 1933
the VDA became officially affiliated
to the NSDAP.

--- Page 20 ---
In connection with the DNVP; an-:

other patriotic’ organization: should be
mentioned, the Jungdeutsche. Orden
(JUNGDO). Founded in’1920 by Artur
Mahraun, it followed a somewhat
mixed mystical and chauvinistic ide-
ology. The organization was to follow
the principles of the medieval orders
of knighthood with the spirit of the
crusaders. In the early 30s, however,
the JUNGDO turned away from the
DNVP and attached itself.to the liberal
Democratic Party.

FRATERNITIES AND TURNVEREINE

For the oligarchical group which
dominated Germany, the DNVP' was
but one link in its chain of command;
it gave the group an _ opportunity
to place its. own representatives in
the Reichstag, thus influencing the
German legislature and_ executive.
Outside of its political party, the group
maintained influential _ connections
which in many ways were of gréater
importance.

In this connection the student frater-
nities, whose influence in. public life
as well as in private industry and
business was extremely strong, should
be mentioned.

Many of these fraternities could only
be joined by members of* aristocratic
or industrial families of high ‘social

standing, or by persons who had-very ”

good connections to those circles. Far

more than the American student, ‘the ‘

German remained an aetive. mémber-
of his fraternity for’ the rest of his
life. The “Alten Herren” (post-graduate
fraternity members) -usually’ maintain-
ed an active interest in the welfare
of their younger. fraternity brothers
after they had left the university./The}
result was that membership in an in-.

fluential fraternity guaranted an ex-'

tremely rapid career in public life and
private industry due to the fact, that

the: ‘Alte Herren”. held‘ key- positions.
in practically: every, important’ publig.

‘office, business or industry.

The Burschenschaften,.. formerly a
democratic movement founded.in oppo-
sition to the feudal CORPS, changed
in the Bismarck period and. shared
with the Corps, in addition to, the
wearing .of distinctive colors and
uniform-like garments, a haughty ex-

clusiviness. These organizations,
Corps ‘and Burschenschaften alike,
followed a stiff obsolete “code of

honor” and were imbued with a patri- ,
otic warrior spirit, This warrior spirit
was encouraged and stimulated by the
practice, of dueling which often took
on a sadistic form.

There. were fraternities of course,
especially Roman Catholic and Jewish,
which, apart from having less rigid
rules, represented a different point
of view.. It is furthermore true
that even the most reactionary frater-
nities produced some men famous for
their liberalism and democratic ‘ideas.
Nevertheless, in .general, membership
in one of the fraternities of the Kose-
ner S.C. or the Weinheimer.S. C.
offers a good indication of a militaris-
tic, nationalistic tendency in the in-
dividual. Within the Kosener . S. C.
the outstanding Corps. .were the
Borussen and the Saxonen.

Closely, connected ,,.with- the - ‘early

. Burschenschaften were ‘the,"Jahn’ schen

Turnvereine’, . designated .. to ; ‘build

“up @ valiant and healthy youth. Politi-

cal:.activity played an important: part
at the time of the formation of these
organizations, -which .developed, into a
stronghold of German - nationalism.
This is, especially. true. of .the Deut-
sche Turnverein, founded in .. 1860,
which in 1919. added ‘to its con:
stitution, the fo}lowing purpose:. “The
promotion of. “Turnen’..as a means. to
physical -and . moral. strengthening, as
well .as the. cultivation of the German
nationalistic consciousness and : patri-.

--- Page 21 ---
otic sentiment”. The Deutsche Turn-
vereine had branches in many foreign
countries and ‘it; members, the Turner,
were well known for their active Ger-
man propaganda. Their insignia, inci-
dentally, looked very similar to the
swastika. These foreign branches were
all controlled from Berlin by the Ar-
beitsgemeinschaft fiir Deutsche Leibes-
tibungen im Ausland.

RURAL INSTRUMENT FOR POWER

Another effective instrument of
power, especially forthe landed aristoc-
racy in East Prussia and Silesia, was
the Landschaften. Founded in the 18th
century for the purpose of extending
cheap credits to the owners of estates,
the Landschaften were corporations of
public law which served as credit orga-
nizations of locally confined districts.
Through the issue of so-called “Pfand-
briefen” which were backed by the
jo:nt security of all estates within that
district, they furnished cheap credits.
Ther offices had the position of public
office and were auxiliary organs of
public administration. The Landschaf-
ten developed into the highest authority
for all land and mortgage questions
within their respective districts. They
enabled the large landowners to assess
and evaluate the property of the farm-
ers and thereby ‘succeeded in making
the peasantry comp!etely dependent
upon the landed aristocracy. Member-
ship in the Landschaften should be

considered cause for investigation into.

the militaristic background of the per-
son concerned.

Another organ‘zation of interest here
is the Osthil‘e which wes founded orig-
inally by the Briining government to
provide credits for the over-indebted
small peasants. in the German Fast.
The Osthilfe, however, was taken over
by the Junkers and used for the:r own
ce-fi-h purpose to refinance thense:ves
through the funds of the Osthilfe. As
a consequence: --of --this activity, -the

18

notorious Osthilfe Seandal occurred
which served to discredit the Weimar
Republic. Practically all of the big
land owners, including the Imperial
family and President Hindenburg, were
involved in this scandal which helped
the nazis to take over the government.

Also meriting attention was the
Herrenklub which during the years
preceding the Hitler regime played an
important role as the very exclusive
meeting place of the leaders of. the
Junkers and large industria‘ists. Franz
von Papen, a typical representative of
German militarism, was chairman and
the guiding power of the Herrenklub.

FROM THE DNVP TO THE NSDAP

To a great extent Hitler’s success
was based upon the help he rezeived
from various nationalistic, militaristic
individuals and groups, and from their
chief political organization, the DNVP.
While the methods of the DNVP differ-
ed somewhat from those of the nazis,
their aims were practically identical.
After they had connived the fall of
the Briining government, they supplied
the German chancellors themselves;
first, the super-politican von Papen,
and, after his failure, General von
Schleicher. When things finally devel-
oped contrary to their expectations,
von Papen managed to sell Hitler to
the leaders of high finance and big
industry. Then von Papen arranged
the famous meeting between Hinden-
burg and Hitler which resu‘ted in the
appointment of Hitler as chancellor.
Despite his appointment, however, H:t-
ler’s future position depended
mainly upon the outcome of the elec-
tions in March 1933.

Here again the DNVP leaders came
to his aid. By the creation in
1932 .of the Harzburger Front, Hugen-
berg had officially linked the destiny
of the DNVP w:th that of the NSDAP.
It was this coalition déstiny of. the

--- Page 22 ---
DNVP and the NSDAP which swung
the elections in favor of Hitler and
gave birth to the totalitarian Third
‘Reich.

THE MENACE OF MILITARISM

German militarists will present a
severe problem for the administration
of occup:ed Germany and a constant
threat to the future peace of the civi-
lized world. In general they are much
harder to ferret out and recognize than
the nazis, and for that reason much
more dangerous. Moreover, ther ex-
ternal appearance and the favorable
impression they are apt to present
are highly deceptive and, therefore,
doubly treacherous. Unlike the nazis,
one w:ll seldom find within their ranks
the cheap opportunists and job hunt-
ers so typical of many members of
the party. The nazi ideology has little
trad:tion, and people who joined the

19

party in order to gain pergonal.advan-
tages (they are often those who claim
they were forced to join) have little
political character or backbone. Such
Germans will hardly ever work against
the occupational forces or the civil

administration as long as this is
dangerous or disadvantageous . for
them.

The “Deutschnationalen”, .on the

other hand, have a tradition and they
adhere obst:nately to their ideas. Given
a policy-making or influential position
in public administration or business
enterprise, such Germans will try
energetically to ‘foster and prefer
their militaristic friends, just as they
did during: the years — preceding
World War II. If they succeed in this,
the forces that have given rise to a
despotic aggression which in 25 years
has twice led the United States and the
World into war will again be set in
motion.

--- Page 23 ---
The Survival of the
Mercenary Sradition

By Franz Marmorek

The tradition of the mercenary sol-
dier can be traced, in Germany, down
to the present. That this tradition
Should have survived into. ‘the Twen-
tieth Century is a fact’ whieh demo-
cratic nations find “hard: ‘to grasp.
There is ample evidence that, even
though unorganized and without cen-
tral direction, certain ‘manifestations of
this phase of militarism in Germany
are surviving even under occupation
conditions, The presence of ‘adequate
Allied troops is enough to: preventi
these manifestations from~dausing a
sérious threat to Allied security. Mili-
tary Governiment: cannot, however, be
satisfied that it has fulfilled its mission
in Germany until this unregenerate
spirit is completely stamped out.

Since the time of ancient Carthage,
warlords have used mercenary soldiers
to do their fighting. The high tide of
the mercenary, however, developed
after the decline of knighthood during
the Fifteenth Century. From that time
on, the German Mercenary, the Lands-
knechte, became a familiar figure on
all European battlefields.

For the mercenary soldier, fighting
was a regular profession and he lent
his services to any warlord who agreed
to pay his fee. After the battle was
over and the fee and_ spoils
were spent, the mercenary look-
ed for a new lord, who might very
well be his former foe. Fighting, for
the Landsknechte, was more than just
a way of making a living; he loved
the life of a soldier and loved the fight
for the fight’s sake.

Although the institution of mercenary
soldiers largely vanished. during the
Fifteenth Century, the Landsknechte

20

- “With a sword in our left hand
and a lance in the right, we are
: fighting all over the world, some-
times for this and sometimes for,
that.” — Old Landsknechte song,

. official theme song of the Hitler
Youth.

_tradition stayed on in Germany. Wher-

ever there was a war in any part of
the world, there were German soldiers
taking part. In the American Revolu-

tion they fought on both sides; they

assisted in -reorganizing the modern
Chinese Army and the Bolivian Army
(the - latter. job, . incidentally, done
under the supervision of Ernst Réhm
of SA notoriety) ; and German elements
infiltrated into the French Foreign Le-
gion to such an exent that German
became the second official command
language.
1918—1933

After World War I, the Landsknechte
spirit had a great revial. There were
thousands of soldiers who had joined
the Army practically in their boyhood.
Fighting was all they knew and
fighting was all they wanted to do.
When the war was finally lost and
the fighting ended, these youths had
no desire to lay down their arms.
Instead they directed their fighting
spirit and hatred primarily against the
“Red Enemy”. Organized in small
battalions, the Freikorps, they fought
the Red Army, supporting the White
Russians. in the Ukraine and the Bal-
tics. They served as the followers and
soldiers of Wolfgang Kapp in his ill-
famed “Putsch” on March 13, 1920
when he proclaimed himself German

--- Page 24 ---
Chancellor. (His reign lasted only five
days, and he was forced to flee to
Sweden when”a’ getieral™ strike forced
his downfall.) When Poland occupied
a part of Upper Silesia, these same
youths formed the Ost Schutz and
fought against Polish and French
troops.

Mysticism, nationalism ‘and a love
for fighting gave a peculiar stamp to
those modern Landsknechte, who
gathered around the black, white and
red banners, Ehrhardt was their most
famous chieftain; the leader of the
“Marine Brigade”, von Killinger, one
of their best-known officers; and old
Ludendorff looked benevolently upon
Germany’s militaristic youth, spiting
the armistice and the Allies. Some po-
litical leaders objected to this illegal
army, but such opponents were openly
ridiculed in the German Reichstag. Von
Killinger reported proudly that his
“boys” insulted an officer of the French
Commission when he neglected to salute
the illegal German colors. No action
was taken either by the Allies or the
Reichstag. s

With the stabilization of conditions
in Germany, survival became difficult
for these units. “We .Putschists from
Dresden”, wrote von Killinger, “all had
‘to start with some quiet and honest
business after that damned_ stabili-
zation of the Mark. Too bad, indeed”.
But there was always room for soldiers
in Germany. Some of them joined the
official: army ‘and ‘others flocked to
the Stahlhelm, the Kyffhauser Bund
and other nationalistic military organi-
zations... The. ancient . Landsknechte
were known for their colorful uni-
forms, and these new Landsknechte,
too,, were looking for a suitable dress.
It was not surprising to find many
of them soon wearing the swagger uni-
forms of Hitler's SA: The old- theme
song of the Ehrhardt men, -“With the
swastika’ on the steel helmet and the
black, white and red armband, we are
called the Ehrhardt Brigade”, now
changed to”... we are called ' Hitler’s

Sturm Abteilung (SA). The Sturm
Abteilung ceased to be a select organi-
zation under the nazis, and the Lands-
knechte sought a more elite organi-
zation for their tradition.

LANDSKNECHTE IN-THE SS

Upon Hitler’s accession to power,
the SA ceased to be an organization for
a few selected soldiers. Men of all sorts
crowded the ranks of the Brown Shirts.
Many of the real Landsknechte . turned
to more selected, military. groups. The
NSKK (Nationalsozialistisches Kraft-
fahrkorps — Motor Corps of the SS)
was a refuge for some, but a few
espetially trustworthy of their num-
ber were selected by Hitler to become
his personal bodyguards. A black uni-
form with the “death’s-head”, cap
identified these Schutz Staffeln, to-
gether with its insignia of the double
“Victory Rune”. In 1934, follow-
ing the Blood Purge, Himmler was
charged with forming the SS into a
new “Order of Knighthood”, a para-
military ‘formation independent of the
SA to whose chief’ of staff it had
formerly been subordinate. After the
outbreak of war, these elite guards
formed the SS in arms.

The SS was the last organized ex-
pression of the Landsknechte and
it died with the collapse of the nazi
empire. It died, but the spirit is still
alive; and it probably will be alive for
some time to come, until a thorough
education has taught the new generation
to avoid militarism and to oppose a
spirit which necessarily fosters
war. Today, small groups, which
threaten Germans co-operating with
the occupation forces and Military
Government,. have assembled in the
towns and _ villages ,' of Germany.
They write’ posters .and mark
walls, and occasionally they attack
single Allied soldiers. Their words are
almost identical with the language of
the Freikorps, their spirit similar to
the traditions of Ehrhardt, Kapp,
Ludendorff and the SS. They are the
scions of the Landsknechte of modern
times,

--- Page 25 ---
General

Dyeing of Uniforms

Deadline Temporarily Suspended

A suspension until further notice of
the December ist deadline for the
wearing by discharged members of the
German armed forces of uniforms not
dyed.or altered has been granted in a
USFET cable.

It was pointed out that a shortage
of dyes prevented meeting the date
originally stipulated in the theater in-
structions issued September 22nd, sub-
ject, “Prohibition on Wearing of Ger-
man Military Uniform”.

Such suspension, however, should
not be interpreted to prevent arrest or
trial of individual German civilians
in German armed forces uniforms
where it is considered that such per-
sonnel have had sufficient time and
means either to alter their uniforms
to a civilian cut or to have had them
dyed where such dyestuffs were
available.

Travel to Berlin

An announcement has been made
that all potential travellers from the
United States occupational zone to
Berlin should be advised that the Niirn-
berg-Bayreuth-Hof Autobahn is closed
to traffic at the Russian Frontier.

The Russian outpost, located on the
highway in the vicinity of Hirschberg,
about fourteen kilometers northwest
of Hof, has been forbidden to admit
anyone into the Russian Zone except
persons carrying passes signed by
Marshal Zhukov or issued by the

22

Due to shortage of dyes, USFET
grants delay in enforcement of in-
structions fertaining to use of
German forces uniform.

Allied Security Council in Berlin. All
persons arriving in this area and lack-
ing the aforementioned credentials have
been required to detour around the
Russian frontier in order to reach
Berlin.

The only authorized approach to Ber-
lin. is via Kassel and Braunschweig.

Special Yule Curfew

USFET has granted a special dis-
pensation in the enforcement of the
curfew hours on Christmas Eve to
permit attendance by German _na-
tionals at traditional midnight religious
services, according to a recent an-
nouncement.

Military District Commanders have
been authorized to extend, at their
discretion, curfew limits on December
24th to 3 a. m. on December 25th.

Priority Labor Needs

Regional Military Government labor
officers have been requested to direct
German Regional labor offices (Landes-
arbeitsémter) to give priority to needs
of railway shops for skilled personnel
to operate on two or three shift basis,
according to a USFET announcement.

--- Page 26 ---
German Reactions

the German

and Foreign News

The Greater Hessen Military Gov-
ernment Office makes the following
report on German reactions to inter-
national affairs:

German reactions to international
news dealing with the internal affairs
of other countries are always
conditioned upon the answer to the
question: “Will it ameliorate condi-
tion inside Germany?” The reality of
their present, pitiful situation has cur-
ed all Germans of grandiose illusions
of their international relations. Even a
superficial observer is quick to notice
that the German people as a whole
have donned the yellow invalid’s arm-
band, passing the burden of “reasonable
care” to others. Therefore, feeling that
they have been declared internationally
as a people unable to use sufficient tact
in their dealings with others and hav-
ing hence been retieved of theneceszi‘y,
the Germans feel themselves to be ob-
jective onlookers at the international
political maneuver.

The sources of information are limit-
ed: the German press plays an in-
significant role and the rumor monger
and the “traveller who just came from
Switzerland” are responsible only for
ephemeral news stories which change
as the hours pass by. The radio re-
mains the strongest link with events
abroad, in spite of the decrease in the

number of usable radios in the hands,

of the civilian population. It was from
the radio that the Germans learned
about the election results in France,
in Yugoslavia and Hungary and the

23

The main German reaction to in-
ternal affairs of other countries
is: “Will it ameliorate conditions
inside Germany?”

civil war in China. His opinions are
based upon the cryptic news items
which invariably lack any elucidation
of their international significance. In
evaluating them, therefore, the civil-
ian is thrown back upon his own
resources, which always contain,even
in the case of non-nazis, a fair mixture
of nazi indoctrination.

SEE FEARS JUSTIFIED

The elections in the several European
countries and the difficulties met by
some political leaders are noted with
interest by most Germans. Their main
approach is, as mentioned before,
“What will it do to aid us?” Another
reaction assumes the German form of
“E told you so.” The leftist trend
evidenced in the recent elections proves
to them that the nazi fears of the
“Bolshevik monster” were justified.
The non-leftist Germans say masochis-
tically, “Let the Anglo-Saxons worry
about it. We warned them.” The more
erudite among them are usually inclined
to make distinctions between Com-
munists in the Slavic countries and
the Western European countries. Being
fearful of both Communism and
Slavism, an apparition combining both
paralyzes their mental processes, and
a discussion of the subject usually

--- Page 27 ---
resolves itself into a series of axioms,
cardinal among which is the dogma
that Communism and S!avism are “de-
monic concepts”.

Though sympathizing with General
De Gaulle’s difficulties these rightists
are quick to point out the shortcom-
ings of democracy and advocate the
establishment of non-political intel-
lectual aristocracy to administer
Europe until conditions become normal.
The average German is less tactful.
He says sarcastically: “Well, why
don’t you allow the Communists to
have equal rights in the French Gov-
ernment? Why shouldn’t the strongest
party be allowed to hold ministerial
positions?” The answers he expects
to these questions are supposed to sub-
stantiate the theories of the Com-
munist “threat”..... But the non-
leftist German secretly expects from
the leftist Western governments an
amelioration of the conditions imposed
upon Germany... All Germans, with
the exception of a small group of Com-
munists, believe that the chance for
the redemption of Germany will come
only. when a rupture occurs in the
friendly relations of the Allied Nations,
and when leftist’ governments have
replaced “victory” governments in the
Western countries. : :

This last belief arises from the deep-
seated . conviction that “civilized”
(Western) Marxists cannot be. im-
perialists and that the international
concept of socialism is incompatible
with the desire to exact retribution
from the German people which is now
composed, so they say, predominantly
of members of the proletariat.

Last Warning to all ‘Concerned

It is. generally‘ appreciated that..of-
ficials appointed by. Military Govern-
ment do. not repose on a bed of roses.
On the one hand, of course, they. are
required to carry out orders handed
down by the occupying authorities, not

24

always easy to do. On the other hand,
they must’ look’ out’ for the welfare
of their constituents and provide a rea-
sonably efficient administration. And
always in the background are the
former party members, looking for op-
portunities to criticize, or even
sabotage, their efforts. Small wonder
that under the circumstances many civ-
ilian officials are loathe to see Mili-
tary Government detachments with-
draw.

We quote here passages from a
Proclamation of the Biirgermeister of
Gunzburg (Schwaben) who castigates
in no uncertain terms nazi rumor
mongers and would-be saboteurs.

“The slaughterhouse of war is fi-
nally closed. The. greatest mass mur-
derer of all times, the crack-pot,
paper-hanger’s apprentice, Adolf Hit‘er,
has brought Europe almost to the
verge of disaster.... But, despite all,
our nazis feel no remorse, have no
awakening! They bélieve that they can
be just as insolent today as they were
formerly, and with’ impunity. Our
people need peace and quiet in order
to recover from the tortures of the
Third Reich and from the terrors. of
the war; but our nazis don’t want to
grant them this peace. The ominous
nazi whisper mill is set in motion,
because this unscrupulous gang hopes
for resurgence of its power through
greater ‘chaos. They put up illegal
posters and nationalist ‘Words of Con-
solation’, making the. whole town live
in fear of punishment; for ,these acts
by the occupation, authorities. They
destroy. my notices openly as soon
as they are posted, although I, as Bir-
germeister, have endeavored to treat
them leniently in order to preserve the
peace of the town.

“WE'VE HAD ENOUGH!"

“Tndeed’ we no longer need your
words of consolation! You are guilty’
of-our misery and the world’s misery.
Hands off our people! We have had
enough. of you. The people are glad.

--- Page 28 ---
that: the spectre of nazism has vanish-
ed forever.

““Long enough have you taken from
us the precious possessions of life
and freedom. We were forced to put
up with injustices; we had to give
way to stupidity and insolence, and
we had to look on while our country
was driven to ruin... Now we shout,
“Make way for freedom”. We shall
talk to you in your own language now,
for it is obvious that you do not under-
stand the language of kindness... The
welfare of our town. requires that your
criminal activities come to an end.

« “If this is not heeded, all party
members will be punished... Hatred
is not written on our banners, but we
will not again commit. the mistake of
letting ourselves be governed by crimi-
nals and adventurers and by - their
stupid followers. We are on guard
against Prussian militarism, all guilty
of the world’s present misery. We will
break the nazi power in its former
stronghold, Gunzburg, and we will
make our beloved town a haven of
peace and freedom.”

The City Council Meets

The following extract taken from
the Hof (Oberfranken und M<°ttelfran-
ken) Mititary Government detachment
report interestingly high-lights the
present position of the local admin-
istration with respect to the develap-
ment. of political parties. The forth-
coming elections and the broadening
of political activity to the Land boun-
daries should greatly clarify the sit-
uation.

“At the meeting of the Stadtrat of
Hof on November 14th, in the Rat-
haus, the first evidence of independent
thought among city officials made an
appearance. The persons involved in
this stormy meeting were the mem-
bers of the Stadtrat, two Communists,
two Social Demecrats,- four. con-

25

servatives, the Oberbiirgermeister, Dr.
Weinauer, and the Birgerme'ster, Mr.
Bechert. The main struggle was be-
tween Dr. Weinauer and the two Com-
munist members of. the Stadtrat on
one side and Mr. Bechert and the
other six members on the other.

“As the time for the transfer of ad-
ministrative authority from Military
Government. to the civilian officials
drew nearer, it had become increasing-
ly obvious that Dr. Weinauer sought
to establish himself in an impregnable
position and, to do this, he had to
break the power of the Stadtrat.. The
matter came to a head. on November
14th over the question of whether Dr.
Weinauer could make political ap-
po:ntments without referring to the
Stadtrat, instead of delegating the
authority to Mr. Bechert and the Stadt-
rat, as had been the case up until a
few weeks ago.

“The basic conflict goes deeper than
the clash of personalities since it in-
volves the struggle of the Communist
Party af Hof to gain control of the
area. The Communist Party, before
1933 an unimportant group holding
only one seat on the 32-man Stadtrat,
has conducted an extremely vigorous
campaign to get into the saddle during
the past few months. In this particular
case, Dr. Weinauer attempted to put
five Communists into city positions
without first consulting the Stadtrat.
Mr. Bechert, an outspoken opponent
of the Communist Party, discovered
this and brought it into the light at
the Stadtrat meeting.

“After a heated discussion of five
hours, Mr. Bechert, with the support
of the six non-Communist members
of the Stadtrat, made his point and
Dr. Weinauer was blocked. The most
important aspect of the meeting was
that the majority of the Stadtrat, feel-
ing that Dr. Weinauer should nothave
full power, fought for its point ane
carried the day.”

--- Page 29 ---
Voices of Experience

rd

E ” 7
MILITARY GOVERNMENT" *

POLISH CAMP COURT

Handles Minor Cases

A Polish Camp Court, presided over
by a trained Polish jurist, has been set
up at the Ettlingen Polish Camp in
Karlsruhe to dispose of cases in which
minor criminal offenses have been com-
mitted by local DPs. Reports of action
taken in these cases are forwarded to
the Military Government, Legal Officer
for approval.

Det. G-45 in Ettlingen also reports
improved efficiency in its police and
jail systems.

Despite the fact that the civilian,
courts are now open, the number of
cases brought before the Summary Mili-
tary Government Court has shown an
increase rather than a decrease. The
increase is attributed to improved po-
lice work now that the men are be-
coming better schooled and thoroughly
oriented to their jobs. After inspections
and reports indicated that the admin-
istration of the Ettlingen jail was not
up to standard, 50 per cent of the
employees were replaced by younger
policemen. This change resulted in a
noticeable improvement in the admin-
istration and efficiency of the in-
stitution.

NEW APPOINTMENT SYSTEM

In order that greater administrative
responsibility may be vested in Land
government officials, a new system for
the appointment of Landrate and Ober-
biirgermeister has been introduced in
North Baden-Wiirttemberg.

Any vacancy or impending vacancy
in the offices of Landrate or Birger-

26

A trained Polish jurist metes out
justice for minor criminal offenses
committed by DPs.

meister, whether in a Landkreis or
Stadtkreis, will immediately be re-
ported to Regional Military Govern-
ment headquarters. The Ministry of
the Interior will be requested to
designate one or more suitable can-
didates who will be sent to the Mili-
tary Government headquarters.

The Ministry of the Interior will be
requested to designate one or more
suitable candidates, who will be sent
to the Military Government officer for
an interview. The accepted candidate
will then be appointed by the Ministry
of the Interior.

NAZI GRAVE DIGGERS

A project to employ nazis as grave
diggers has been developed in Bremen,
and they will be used to establish a
cemetery for some 4,700 French, Polish,
Russian, English, and American
victims of concentration camps.

At present the victims are buried
in mass graves at Farge. A site 800
meters from the present cemetery has
been selected on a slope covered by
small trees and underbrush.

Known nazis will be required to
clear the site, build roads and paths,
landscape it, dig individual graves and
remove the bodies from the old graves.
Approximately 100 nazis will be
employed on this project.

--- Page 30 ---
A religious service will be held at
the new cemetery when it is ready
for the reception of the concentration
camp victims.

LABOR OFFICES UTILIZED

In view of the growing unemploy-
ment among clerical workers, profes-
sionals and administrators, many of
whom are thought to be likely can-
didates to fill positions in public of-
fices, the Land Ministry of the
Interior for North Baden-Wirttemberg
has been instructed to make greater
use of the labor offices in endeavoring
to find suitable persons for admin-
istrative positions in public agencies.

COMBATTING V. D. MENACE
LK Mallersdorf is meeting its main
public health problem-the effective
control of venereal disease-with a rigid
program encompassing both the mili-
tary and civilian population.

A venereal disease hospital, staffed
by a doctor and with a continuous
police guard, has been established. By
working directly with the tactical
troops, who report venereal disease
suspects to the proper authorities,
Mainz, civilian sex contacts have been
apprehended.

It was determined that both male
and female ex-Wehrmacht members
were a source of infection, and a
program for examining all these people
set up. Although the work has not yet
been completed, more than 2,500 men
and women have been examined. In
addition, Birgermeister and _ police
were notified to send all known or
suspected promiscuous sex contacts to
the public welfare office for exami-
nation. Germans appearing before
summary Military Government courts
who are _ suspected of sexual
promiscuity also are examined, and
several such persons have been found
to be infected.

Disbandment Directive

The dissemination to all echelons of
Military Government of the information
contained in Par. 15, “Disbandment
Directive No. 7, issued November 27th
and which deals with the discharge of
prisoners of war and members of dis-
armed enemy forces who aré’ former
German Reichspost’ employees, has
been ordered in a USFET cable.

The paragraph réads: “Authority is
granted for discharge of prisoners of
war and members of disarmed’ enemy
forces who are former German Reichs-
post employees, domici'ed in the Ameri-
can Occupational Zone, and who are
not essential to military needs. Under

this authority, usual. restrictions - on
security suspects, war criminals, high-

ranking officers and General Staff
apply”.

27.

Civilian Rail Traffic

German railways were authorized,
in a recent USFET cable, to move civ-
ilian freight and passenger traffic
within the U.S. Zone to the maximum
extent of rail capaci‘ies remaining a‘ter
military supplies and personnel re-
quirements have been accomplished.

Military Government transportation
officers will not impose unnecessary.
restrictions,: eliminating red tape
channels now applicable which delay
materials urgently needed and further
nullify full utilization of rail facilities
available for authorized civilian move-
ments.

--- Page 31 ---
(Press Comments

Policy Changes Seen

Result of

Price Report

The report of Byron Price to the
President on the situation in occupied
Germany evoked widespread interest
in the American press, with com-
mentators predicting that the report
‘will result in important changes in
occupation policy. Editorial writers
generally agreed with Price on the
need for ending the present deadlock
in the Control Council in Berlin.

The fourth monthly report of Gen-

eral Eisenhower as Military Governor
was well covered by the American
press, several commentators linking the.
Eisenhower and Price reports together
as evidence that conditions in Ger-
many require unified occupation pol-
icies.
. Reaction to the pledge of General
Joseph T. McNarney, new commander
of American forces in Europe, that
he will continue a strong Denazifica-
tion policy was favorable, and his state-
ment that the United States will stay
in Germany at least ten years was
welcomed as an indication that it will
finish the occupation job which it has
undertaken.

“It is to be hoped that action will
promptly follow — four-power action
that will rescue German occupation from
the mess it has slipped into”, declared
The Philadelphia’ Inquirer in comment-
ing on the Price report.

The Washington Post saw in’ the
Price recommendations for the rebuild-
ing of Germany a “strong indictment

28

Editorial writers agree on urgency
of terminating present deadlock in
Control Council.

of the methods that are being follow-
ed”, Pointing out that French oppo-
sition must be broken down so that
it will be possible to treat Germany
as an economic unit, The Post: ex-
pressed the view that Military Gov-
ernment is not equipped to undertake
the task of putting Germany on a
self-sustaining basis. “This . under-
taking — necessary and urgent as it
is — should be shifted to civilian
control”, said The Post.

_The Washington Star described ‘the
Price report as “a thought-provoking
document... France made no secret of
her: determination to sever both the
Rhineland and the Ruhr from the
Reich. The other. Allies. objected,
especially to the severance of the Ruhr,
holding. that this would render im-
possible the economic reconstruction
of the already truncated and over-pop-
ulated Reich. This portends a tragic
dilemma; either: chaos in Germany, per-
haps spreading through Europe, or.the
embitterment ofa coerced French re:
gime with unpleasant possibilities in
other aspects. of world affairs”. .
. The Price and Eisenhower. reports,
said’ The Philadelphia Record, raise
the question of whether the Allies, who
won the war against Germany, are

--- Page 32 ---
winning the peace in that country.
According to Cedric Foster of MBS,
the Eisenhower report “presents the
picture of a country being propped up
bodily by Allied occupation forces lest
it fall of its own weight into complete
and utter chaos... We’ve got to feed
them and then ride hard over them for
years to come. If we don’t, then they
will once more exhibit the truth of
the Mendelian law by a reversion to
their warlike tendencies”.

William J. Humphreys, in an article
in The New York Herald-Tribune,
stated that, in the opinion of the
French, Eisenhower and Price, in criti-
cizing France, failed to mention that
“France maintains that the future of
the great war potential areas in Ger-
many — the Ruhr, Rhineland and Saar —
must be settled before the enemy
country is permitted to knit its poli-
tical and economic fractures”.

This point of view found a supporter
in Walter Lippman, who asserted that
it would be putting the cart before the
horse to set up a central administra-
tion in the Ruhr, Rhineland and Saar
before a decision has been reached as
the status of these areas.

The denazification statement of Gen-
eral McNarney, declared Henry Glad-
stone of MBS, “destroys the. hopes
of ‘hundreds of Nazi ‘small frys’ that
Eisenhower’s departure would result
in a more lenient regime”.

In spite of all it involves, said the
Indianapolis Star, General McNarney’s
assurance that we will remain in
Germany for at least ten years “is
good news”. He disposed of the
notion that we -are getting out as
rapidly as we can and that soon
the Germans will be left to do as
they please. We shall stay until we
can leave a new and peaceful Germany
to carry on among the nations of the
world”,

29

Nurnberg Trials

Press reaction to the initial proceed-
ings in the Niirnberg war criminal
trials was favorable, with commenta-
tors emphasizing the importance of the
law applied by the Four Powers in
preventing future wars.

“The first week of this historical
tribunal has been marked by major
accomplishment”, declared The Phila-
delphia Inquirer. “Astonishing speed
and smoothness have been shown, and
the whole proceeding is already mark-
ed with the pattern of success”.
Equally complimentary was the com-
ment of Kathleen McLaughlin, who
said in a dispatch to The New York
Times on November 25th that “the
great legal experiment here has taken
on a tinge of success”, less than a

week after it was “launched with
trepidation and amid _ misgivings.
Functioning at a pace and with

smoothness exceeding the fondest hopes
of its progenitors, the trial of the
major nazi war criminals has so far
developed into an effective inter-
national enterprise that speculation
has passed from its possible pitfalls
to its future pattern and duration”.

In the opinion of Victor Bernstein,
PM correspondent, the trial has al-
ready proved “that any. hesitancy .in
smashing German big business. and
purging its personnel is a victory for
nazism. Enough evidence has gone in
to strip German industry of any
pretense that it was merely an inno-
cent. bystander to wholesale murder”.
Another correspondent, L. B. Shapiro
of The North. American Newspaper
Alliance, expressed the view that the
trial, as far as the German people
are concerned, is a waste of time and
effort. “They’re simply not interested
in the Nurnberg proceedings, and feel
that the show is strictly for export”.

The New York Times, in an editorial
on November 2lst, warned that the

--- Page 33 ---
trial has two dangers. First, that it
may create precedents alien to our
legal concepts which might tend to
warp interpretations of our laws at
home. Second, that it might be used
“as a precedent by cynical conquerors
not only to liquidate the vanquished but
also to shift guilt from themselves to
their victims. The court can guard
against these dangers if it metes out
justice whose fairness is beyond
challenge and if it avoids any impres-
sion that this is a political show for
political purposes”.

European Elections

Though welcoming the Austrian
elections as another evidence of the
post-war revival of democratic proces-
ses in Europe, editorial commentators
were sharply critical of the recent
elections in Yugoslavia. The Yugoslav
election, declared The Washington
Post, was “anything but a free expres-
sion of the popular will. It was, on
the contrary, on all fours with the
plebiscites which Hitler and Musso-
lini used to permit the German and
Italian peoples to participate in for the
purpose of proving to the world the
all but unanimous popular support
which their regimes enjoyed”, A
similar view was that of The
Washington Star, which said that the
Yugoslav election “should be classed,
with those political shows commonly
put on by all totalitarian govern-
ments”,

Comment on the Austrian elections
emphasized the fact that the Russians
made no attempt to interfere with the
balloting and that Russian occupation
had not resulted in making Communism
more popular with the people. “Wher-
ever the voters are allowed to express
themselves, the tendency seems to be
toward governments of moderates —
away from reactionary rightists but
not toward radical Communism“, said

30-

The Philadelphia Inquirer. According
to Joseph Harsch CBS, “the complete
eclipse of the Communist Party in the
Austrian election confirmed the emerg-
ing, pattern of an old Europe with
political ideas of its own which are
neither Western nor Russian. So
another European country has elected
the Middle Way”.

In The Far East

While The New York Herald-Tri-
bune declared that it is “preposterous
to try to reach permanent solutions in
the Far East without the assistance
of the Russians”, several editorial
writers expressed opposition to the
desire of Russia to set up a four-
power Allied Control Council in Japan.
An example of this latter point of view
was a Washington Post editorial.
Citing the “endless difficulties” produc-
ed by the unanimity rule in Germany,
‘The Post asserted that “there is every
reason why the situation there should
be avoided in Japan”.

Responsibility for “American errors
in China” were the result in part “of
America’s complete lack of an integrat-
ed foreign policy”, declared The New
York Herald-Tribune, in commenting
on the resignation of Maj. Gen. Patrick
Hurley, Ambassador to China. By the
same token, it added, General George
C. Marshall, his successor, will face
“almost insurmountable obstacles”
unless the administration develops an
integrated foreign policy providing for
action in China directly related to
American policies in other parts of the
world,

Random Comments

“Our German policy should be bas-
ed on these fundamentals: We desire
a disarmed Germany, unable to wage
aggressive war. We desire an occupa-
tion demonstrating that no ally or
allies seek to build Germany as a

--- Page 34 ---
pawn against Russia or any other ally.
We desire a denazified Germany, learn-
ing democracy. She should not fare
better than Germany’s victims. But
neither the German nor any other people
should be permitted to starve now
— and German prosperity must be part
of the ultimate prosperity of Europe”.
— Editorial in The Chicago Sun.

* *

“The real problem is that of finding
competent civilian personnel — how
real it is only those who have had to
find the men know. To send hacks, ad-
venture -seeking politicians or even
well-meaning but inexperienced citizens
into an imbroglio such as that existing
in Germany would be to confound con-
fusion. No doubt many competent men
could be found among those who were
trained for Military Government
service and are now back in civilian
clothes. Is the Department of State
thoroughly canvassing this group? Un-
doubtedly it will have to pay substan-
tial salaries as the British do to hire
these men back into an undertaking
beset by so many difficulties. But that
is to be expected — high-calibre men
from any source will have to be well
paid for such work”. — Editorial in
The Washington Post.

* *

“This international problem has two
aspects, one immediate, one of the
future. The immediate problem is that
of bringing the war really to an end,
of re-establishing human kindness, of
being done with the killing, the brutal-
ity and the disregard of human rights
which are the essence of war. The
problem of the future is that of
preventing, not merely of making less
likely, a recurrence to open, formal

war”. — Sir William Beveridge in The
London Observer.
* *

“German youth is disillusioned, tired,
confused and visibly growing more and

31

more demoralized. The majority of
young people in Germany today believe
in nothing. Unfortunately, so far little
is being done on the part of the Allies
to help them find something to which

to attach their activities. To Germany’s
younger generation, democracy means

nothing. They know from looking
around them that ‘democracy’ won Ger-
many to its knees. They are told that
democracy is the goal toward which
they must work; but they do not have
the slightest understanding of its
meaning nor, therefore, any real enthu-
siasm for the concept of democracy”.
— Tanis Long in The New York Times
Sunday Magazine.

* *

“From some accounts of affairs. in
Germany, one would think that all was
confusion, chaos and frustration under
the occupation. Information from other
sources, however, indicates that recon-
struction is proceeding at an accele-
rated pace”. — Richmond Times Dis-
patsch.

* *

“Because nobody in Washington has
the wit or courage to explain that
saving a crop in Europe is not
‘coddling’ the Germans, we do nothing.
The result is that the mortality rate
in Germany has leaped to a new high
for all time and that Europe as a
whole is threatened with mass
starvation. It is no wonder that the
Army is anxious to get out from under
before the chaotic situation becomes
generally understood. The failure is on
the political front. We have permitted
the politicians to forget that we did
not get into this war to loot a contin-
ent or encourage mass starvation. We
went into the war first to save our
necks and second to throw our weight
on the side of orderly development
in Europe as a. necessary condition
of peace”. Editorial in The Saturday
Evening Post,

--- Page 35 ---
(Personnel Data

QUALIFICATIONS jor CIVILIAN Jobs

Personnel qualifications for civilian jobs at Regional level of Military Government
are described in these briefs. Qualifications for additional posts open to Military
Government personnel will be published in forthcoming issues of The BULLETIN.

FINANCE SPECIALIST — CAF 14
(Base pay plus overseas —
$ 8,968.75)

Broad general background in public
and private financial institutions, tax
rates, and other public revenues, along
with capacity to advise on and assist
in the construction of governmental
budgets are essential. Must under-
stand the causes and effects of infla-
tion and have the capacity to preclude
them. Besides a complete understand-
ing of the Land Ministry of Finance,
other experience or training must
embrace the making of operating deci-
sions on higher headquarter’s policy,
an understanding of cartels, trusts,
interlocking directorates and other fi-
nancial devices designed to continue
economic warfare, the preparation of
detailed technical and administrative
directives, and the enforcement of
them.

PUBLIC FINANCE SPECIALIST —
CAF-13
(Base pay plus overseas —
$ 7,787.50)

Must be widely experienced in the
administration of public finance, the
organization of tax budgets, revenue
disbursing, etc. Must have demonstrat-
ed capacity to draft and execute
policy on public finance, and a very
high degree of executive ability and
knowledge of public administration is
indicated. Must be able to determine
whether or not democratic principles

32

and correct technical reasoning have
been applied in the most involved and
difficult decisions by Treasury.

PRIVATE FINANCE SPECIALIST —
CAF-13
(Base pay plus overseas —
$ 7,787.50)

Must be experienced in over all
management and control of all private
financial institutions and transactions;
be able to direct German governmental
agencies by means of orders complete
in administrative and technical detail
and covering all phases of private fi-
nance; be able to deal with such
diversified subjects as pawnbrokers,
commercial interest rates, checking
accounts, reorganization and receiver-
ships of banks, operations and
ownership of insurance companies,
etc.; be able to prevent diversion of
private funds to the support of politi-
cal groups.

Positions as Staff Member and Staff
Assistant in Finance functions are also
available at CAF-11 and CAF-9, base
salaries plus overseas $5,375 and
$4,550 respectively.

EDUCATION AND RELIGIOUS AFFAIRS
SPECIALIST — CAF-14
(Base pay plus overseas —
$ 8,968.75)

Very broad general knowledge of
educational administration and church
organization and administration are
essential. Experience and _ training

--- Page 36 ---
desired should be comprehensive
enough to insure ability to reorient
Germans to a democratic way of life
by the virtual reeducation of an entire
nation. Should know and appreciate the
militaristic complexion of the German
school, nationalistic activities of clergy
and be able to direct the reshaping
of their entire psychology. Knowledge
and training will enable incumbent
to deal not only with broader aspects
of education, religion and cultural
activities, but will embrace detailed
knowledge of text books, music, thea-
ter, recreational and leisure time
activities, youth activities, budgets,
curriculum. supervision, all levels and
kinds of schools, etc. Must be skilled
in the promulgation of democratic
policy and be able to coordinate educa-
tion and religious problems with other
functional heads where they are con-
cerned.

EDUCATION SPECIALIST
CAF-13

(Base pay plus overseas —
$7,787.50)

Must be thoroughly familiar with
the basis on which priorities for reope-
ning schools is set, the distribution of
available resources, funds, personnel,
books and other equipment. Training
and experience must indicate a
capacity to direct clearance of all
educational personnel, organizations,
text books, movies and other training
aids of militaristic and nationalistic
influence; to make or closely supervise
the making of direct personnel investi-
gations ; to practice technical and admin-
istrative supervision of all educational
institutions and activities, and to effect
the immediate democracy of the Ger-
man educational system.

The positions of Staff Assistant and
Staff member are also available to

33

educational specialists at CAF-9 and
CAF-11, base salaries plus overseas,
$4,550 and. $5,375, respectively.

RELIGIOUS AFFAIRS SPECIALIST —
CAF-13
(Base pay plus overseas —
$ 7,787.50)

Intraining and experience, applicants
will have demonstrated a capacity to
conduct policy-making conferences and
negotiations with ecclesiastical authori-
ties, and to obtain by persuasion the
results normally achieved by com-
mands. Must understand problems
involving church and state, the disposi-
tion of church property seized by party
and state, parochical schools, activi-
ties of unions, cooperatives and politi-
cal factions identifying themselves with
the church. Through information volun-
teered by individuals, church publica-
tions, discussions with religious lead-
ers etc, must be capable of determ-
ining whether or not activities remain
within proper limits.

INTERVIEWER — CAF-7

(Base pay plus overseas — $3,725)

Will by experience and training have
capacity to conduct actual investiga-
tions of Nazis, German Intelligence
Service, War Criminals, security
suspects, etc. Should be familiar with
operations of Army C-2s, Intelligence
Corps, German public officials, police
and organized German _ informers.
Knowledge of German desirable.

PUBLIC WELFARE SPECIALIST —

CAF-14
(Base pay plus overseas —
$ 8,968.75)
Grade 1. College graduation plus

eight years of a combination of:

a, education in an approved school
of social work;

b, satisfactory full-time, paid em-
ployment in a social work or execu-
tive position in a public or approved

--- Page 37 ---
private social work agency, of which
two years must have been in respon-
sible supervisory or executive work;
and

c, satisfactory service as a Military
Government/Civil Affairs officer.

PUBLIC WELFARE SPECIALIST —
CAF-13
(Base pay plus overseas —
$ 7,787.50)

Grade 2. College graduation plus six
years of a combination of:

a, education in an approved school
of social work;

b, satisfactory full-time employment
in a social work agency, and/or exec-
utive position in a public or approved
private social work agency; and

c, satisfactory service as a Military
Government/Civil Affairs officer.

PUBLIC WELFARE SPECIALIST —
CAF-11
(Base pay plus overseas — $5,375)

Grade 3. College graduation plus
four years of a combination of

a, education in an approved school
of social work;

b, satisfactory full-time paid employ-
ment in a social work or executive
position in a public or approved private
social work agency, and .

c, satisfactory service as a Military
Government/Civil Affairs officer.

Information Control Div.
Offers Job Positions

Information Control Division,
USFET, and its corresponding eche-
lons of Office of Military Government
for Germany (U. S.) and in the field
have vacancies for officers and enlisted

men who have civilian or army
experience in various fields.
These include: Radio editing,

announcing and production; newspaper
reporting, circulation: and production;

34

film production and_ distribution;
investigation and interrogation of Ger-
mans; communications, radio and tele-
phone; and army administration.

If the applicant is eligible for
discharge, or will become eligible in
the next 30 days, employment as a
civilian may be requested in any of
the positions outlined above.

Applications will be submitted. to
the Chief, Information Control Divi-
sion, Headquarters, USFET, Main,
APO 757. Information necessary in the
application includes; Name, rank,
ASN., organization, ASR. score (must
be under 50), age, civilian experience
(give dates and salary), education,
army experience (including schools),
and indorsement by commanding offi-
cer stating availability for reassign-
ment, character and efficiency index.

TO LT. COLONEL
Maj. Joseph P. Cohen, 3d M.G.Rgt.

TO TECHNICAL SERGEANT

S/Sgt. Martin Kramkimel, 3d. M.G.
Regt.

TO SERGEANT

Cpl. William D. Bothell, 3dM.G.Rgt.
Tec. 5 Ross P. DiGiorgio, 35 M. G. Regt.

TO TECHNICIAN FIFTH GRADE
Pfc, Peter N. Reuter, Jr., 3d M.G. Regt.
Pfe. Irving Karp, 3d M.G. Regt.

Pfc. Norman W. Towner, 3d M.G. Regt.
Pfe. Orland Fiandaca, 3d M.G. Regt.
Pfc. Gerald Rosenzweig, 3d M.G. Ret.

TO PRIVATE FIRST CLASS
Pvt. William M. Born, 3d M.G. Regt.

--- Page 38 ---
Station List

Military Government Elements

OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR

UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER
Office of
Mil Govt for
Germany (U.S.) Berlin Lt Gen Lucius D Clay
Office of

Mil Govt (U.S. Zone) Frankfurt

WESTERN MILITARY DISTRICT

Seventh U. S. Army
Office of
Mil Govt
(Western
District)

Heidelberg Western Military . District

2d Mil Govt Regiment
(APO 758)
Hq 2d Mil Govt Regt Heidelberg
Sv Co Oberursel
2d MG Med Det. Heidelberg

NORTH BADEN-WURTTEMBERG

E-t Stuttgart

Hq 1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Stuttgart
Hy & Sv Co 1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Stuttgart
Mobile Maint Plat., Hq & Sv Co

1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Zuffenhausen

North Baden- Wirttemberg

Wiirttemberg
E-1 Stuttgart Wiarttemberg
F-10 Stuttgart SK Stuttgart
Fit Uln SK-LK Ulm
G-20 Aalen LK Aalen
G-21 Boblingen LK Boblingen
G-22 Crailsheim _LK Crailsheim
G-23 Esslingen LK Esslingen
G-24 Gmiind LK Gmin
G-25 Géppingen LK Géppingen
G-26 Schwabisch Hall LK Hall
G-27 Heidenheim LK Heidenheim
G-28 Heilbronn LK Heilbronn
G-29 Ludwigsburg LK Ludwigsburg
G-30 Waiblingen LK Waiblingen
H-50 Backnang LK Backnang
H-51 Heilbronn SK Heilbronn
H-52 Kinzelsau LK Kanzelsau
H-53 Leonberg LK Leonber;
H-54 Bad Mergentheim LK Mergentheim
H-55 Nartingen LK Nirtingen
H-56 Ohringen LK Ohringen
H-57 Ulm Baden-Wirttemberg
H-58 Vaihingen LK Vaihingen

Landesbezirk North Baden

Co E Durlach Landesbezirk.

E-7 Karlsruhe North Baden

F-16 Mannheim SK-LK Mannheim
G-43 Heidelberg SK-LK Heidelberg
G-46 Pforzheim SK-LK. Pforzheim
G-47 Karlsruhe SK-LK Karlsruhe

Maj Gen C L Adcock

Col M O Edwards

Lt Col N F Hines
1st Lt R A Madden
Lt Col W H Riheldaffer

Col W W.Dawson
Lt Wm E Snodgrass

1st Lt E Thompson

Col W W_ Dawson
Lt Col C L Jackson
Lt Col I. L. Harlow
Maj J K Owen
Capt W A Becker
Lt Col R L Rogers
Lt Col J I.Taylor
Capt J N Krajnak
Maj G W Ford
Maj W T Neel

Maj B V Bloom
Lt Col H M Montgomery
Capt H K Manson
Maj H W Freeman
Maj G D Burchell
Maj M L Hoover
Capt ‘W_ L Straus
Cpt R S Deetz
Capt S L Haber
Maj S A Warren
1st Lt M Korson

Lt Col J M Gregory
Capt J G Cox :

1st Lt RT Lynch
Col C Lisle °

Lt Col R S Smith
Lt Col G P-Keatz
1st Lt N. Semaschko
Maj M §. Pullen

--- Page 39 ---
OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER
H-87 Bruchsal LK Bruchsal Capt G_T. Daughters
H-88 Feudenheim Warehouse Opn Maj H E Kring
H-89 Buchen LK Buchen Maj J A McGuinness
H-90 Mosbach LK Mosbach Maj N O Moore
H-91 Tauberbischofsheim LK Tauberbischofsheim Capt J F Moyer
H-92 Sinsheim LK Sinsheim Capt G O Withey
1-137 Edingen Warehouse Opn Capt R L Shadwick

LAND GREATER HESSEN
E-5 Wiesbaden Land Great Hesse Qol J R Newman
Hq 2d Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Wiesbaden Col J R Newman
Hq & Sv Co 2d Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Wiesbaden Capt T H Candon
Mobile Maint. Plat., Hq & Sv Co

2d Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Wetzlar Capt B Sturdevan

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

E-5 Wiesbaden
E-6 Frankfurt
F-15 Wiesbaden
G-41 Wetzlar
H-77 Dillenburg

H-78 Gelnhausen

H-79 Hanau
H-80 Limburg

H-83 Ridesheim
H-86 Bad Homburg

Regierungsbezirk Kassel
Co C Kirchhain
E-4 Kassel

F-14 Kassel
G-38 Fritzlar
G-39 Marburg

G-40 Fulda
G-48 Korbach
H-65 Eschwege
H-67 Hersfeld
H-68 Hofgeismar
H-70 Melsungen
H-72 Kassel
H-73 Witzenhausen
ML-1 (Sa) Kassel
Regierungsbezirk Hessen
E-3 Darmstadt
F-12 Darmstadt
F-13 Offenbach
G-31 Bensheim
G-32 Biidingen
G-33 Dieburg
G-34 Friedberg
G-35 Giessen
H-62 Lauterbach
BREMEN
E2C2 Bremen
G1Cc2 Wesermiinde

RB Wiesbaden
SK Frankfurt

SK Wiesbaden
LK Wetzlar

LK Dillkreis &
LK Biedenkopf
LK Gelnhausen &
LK Schliichtern
SK-LK Hanau
LK Limburg &
LK Oberlahn

LK Rheingau &
LK Untertaunus
LK Obertaunus &
LK Usingen &
LK Maintaunus

RB Kassel

SK-LK Kassel &

LK Wolfhagen

LK Fritzlar-Homberg &

LK Ziegenhain

SK-LK Marburg

SK-LK Fulda & LK Hinfeld
LK Waldeck & LK Frankenberg
LK Eschwege

LK Hersfeld

LK Hofgeismar

LK Melsungen &

LK Rotenburg

Warehouse Opn

LK Witzenhausen

Liaison

RB Hessen ,
SK-LK Darmstadt &

LK Gross Gerau

SK-LK Offenbach

LK Bergstrasse & LK Erbach
LK Bidingen

LK Dieburg

LK Friedberg

SK-LK Giessen

LK Lauterbech & LK Alsfeld

Bremen Sub-District
SK-LK Wesermiinde

36

Col J R Newman

Lt Col R K Phelps
Lt Col F A Sansone
Lt Col E M Lee

Maj D B Bernstein

Maj M E Chotas
Maj T Turner Jr

Capt E F Duffy
Maj J G Gavin
Capt A L Yakoubian

‘1st Lt J F Owen
Lt Cot A Skarry
Lt Col R Bard

Maj R A Gish

Lt Col T A Brown
Maj C F Russe

Maj J R Chambliss
Capt A W Moore
Capt G S Iredell
Capt S C Moore Jr.
Maj T T Turnbull Jr.

Capt J R Newell
Capt W_ E Getman
Maj F C Eggers

Lt Col W T Burt
Lt Col L G Kelly

Lt Col W A Snow
Maj A C Leggatt
Maj L S LaPrade
May E T Cusiek
Maj R J Willard
Capt J S Chapin
Capt H Nickelsberg

C Welker
s

Lt Col B
Lt Gol L S Diggs

--- Page 40 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Office of
Mil Govt for
Bavaria) Munich

Hq 3d Mil Govt Regt Augsbur,
Ha Co Augsbure. Sa
Sv Co Augsburg

1st Maint Plat Augsburg

2d Maint Plat Uttenreuth

3d Maint Plat Straubing
R&T Co Augsburg
3d MG Med Det Munich
3d MG Med Sec Augsburg

BAVARIA

Office of
Mil Govt

for Bavaria Munich

Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken

Co A Ochsenfurt
E-202 Wirzburg
F-210 Warzburg
G-220 Aschaffenburg
G-221 Schweinfurt
H-250 Bad Kissingen
H-251 Kitzingen
1-330 Alzenau

1-331 Brickenau
1-332 Ebern

1-333 Gemiinden
1-334 Gerolzhofen
1-335 Hammelburg
1-336 Hassfurt
1-337 Hofheim
1-338 Karlstadt
1-339 Kénigshofen
1-340 Lohr

1-341 Marktheidenfeld
1-342 Mellrichstadt
1-343 Miltenberg
1-344 Neustadt Saale
1-345 Obernburg
1-346 Ochsenfurt

EASTERN MILITARY DISTRICT

Third U. S. Army

Eastern Military District

3d Mil Govt Regt
(APO 403)

Bavaria

RB Mainfranken
SK-LK Warzburg
SK-LK Aschaffenburg
SK-LK Schweinfurt
LK Kissingen

LK Kitzin

LK Alzenaa

LK Brickenau

LK Ebern

LK Gemiinden

LK Gerolzhofen

LK Hammelburg
LK Hassfurt

LK Hofheim

LK Karlstadt

LK Kénigshofen

LK Lohr

LK Marktheidenfeld
LK Mellrichstadt
LK Miltenberg

LK Neustadt a. d. Saale
LK Obernburg

LK Ochsenfurt

Regierungsbezirk Ober‘& Mittelfiranken

Co C Ansbach
E-203 Ansbach
F-211 Narnberg
G-228 Ansbach
G-229 Firth

H-261 Dinkelsbahl
H-262 Eichstadt
H-263 Feuchtwangen
H-264 Gunzenhausen
H-265 Hersbruck
H-266 Hilpoltstein

RB Ober and Mittelfranken
SK-LK Nirnberg

SK-LK Ansbach

SK-LK Firth

LK Dinkelsbahl

LK Eichstadt

LK Feuchtwangen

LK Gunzenhausen

LK Hersbruck

LK Hilpoltstein

37

Brig Gen W. J. Muller

Lt Col F W Sutton
Capt Wm Irwin
Capt J P Cline
Capt J P Cline

1st Lt C Casper

1st Lt C T En
Capt T J May

Lt Col C Shields
Maj M G Kanner

Brig Gen W J Muller

1st Lt H Hull

Lt Col M E Henderson
Lt Col J B Bradford
May C M Emerick v
Lt Col J B Thomson
Capt M A Potter
Capt J B Lynn

Maj E E Shovea
Maj H B Clark Jr
1st Lt R W Jones
Capt K N Galloway
Capt J M Simon
Capt E G Emery
Capt T F Griffen
Capt W Hitt

Capt W E Brayden
Capt A W Peterson
Capt Elmer E Kelly
Maj M B Voorhees
Lt L K Owens

Capt D J Huffman
Capt E F Warnke
Maj B H Logan
Capt H A Storm

1st Lt G N Hultzen
Col E M Haight

Col C H Andrews
Lt Col W R Whitaker Jr.
Maj J D Cofer

Lt Col J W Hall
Maj W T Stoats
Capt J M Hodges Jr.
Maj H W Zurn
Maj H R Glaser
Maj H T Lund

--- Page 41 ---
‘UNIT... LOCATION

OFFICE OF
- MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

H-267 Weissenburg
H-268 Rothenburg
H-269 Schwabach
H-270 Scheinfeld
H-271 _ Windsheim
H-272 ' Lauf-
H-273 Neustadt a. d. Aisch
Co B Bamberg
G-222 Bamberg
G-223 Bayreuth
G-224 Erlangen
G-225 Coburg
G-226 Kronach
G-227 Hof

G-247 Lichtenfels
H-252 Ebermannstadt
H-253 Hochstadt ~
H-254 Kulmbach
H-255 Pegnitz
H-256 Munchberg
H-258 Rehau
H-259 Wunseidel
H-260 Forcheim
1-347 Naila

1-348 Stadtsteinach

LK Weissenburg

LK Rothenburg

LK Schwabach

LK Scheinfeld

LK Uffenheim

LK Lauf

LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch

SK-LK Bamberg
SK-LK Bayreuth
LK Erlangen
SK-LK Coburg
LK Kronach
SK-LK Hof

LK Lichtenfels
LK Ebermannstadt
LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
LK Kulmbach

LK Pegnitz

LK Munchberg
LK Rehau

LK Wunseidel

LK Forcheim

LK Naila

LK Stadtsteinach

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern & Oberpfalz

Co D Regensburg

E-204 Regensburg
F-212 Regensburg
G-230 Weiden

G-244 Amberg

H-274 Cham

H-275, Burglengenfeld
H-276 Parsberg
H-277 Tirschenreuth
H-278 Neunburg
H-279 Eschenbach

1-349 Kemnath
1-350 Nabburg
1-351 Oberviechtach
1-352 Riedenberg
1-353 Vohenstrauss
1-354 Roding
1-355 Waldmiinchen
1-356 Beilngries
1-357 Neumarkt
1-358 Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Co H Regensburg

G-243, Passau.
G-245 Landshut
G-246 Straubing
H-301 Deggendorf
H-302 Eggenfelden
H-303 Grafenau
H-304 Kelheim
H-305 | Landau
H-306 Pfarrkirchen
H-307 Zweisel
H-308 Vilshofen
H-309 Vilsiburg
H-310 Freyung
1-375 Bogen

1-377 Dingolfing
1-378 Griesbach

RB Niederbayern & Oberpfalz
SK-LK Regensburg

SK Weiden &

LK Neustadt a. d. Wald
SK-LK Amberg

LK Cham ~

LK Burglengenfeld

LK Parsberg

LK Tirschenreuth

LK Neunburg vorm Wald
LK Eschenbach i. d. Opf.
LK Kemnath

LK Nabburg 5

LK Oberviechtach

LK Riedenberg

LK Vohenstrauss

LK Roding

LK Waldminchen

LK Beilngries

LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg

SK-LK Passau
SK-LK Landshut
SK-LK Straubing
LK Deggendorf
LK Eggenfelden
LK Grafenau
LK Kelheim

LK Landau a. d. Isar
LK Pfarrkirchen
LK Regen

LK Vilshofen
LK Vilsiburg

LK Wolfstein
LK Bogen

LK Dingolfing
LK Griesbach

38

Cpt J J Carr

Maj R C Anderson
Maj R H Stringer
Maj H C Kauffmann
Maj S Klein

Maj E N Humphrey
Maj F K Hinchey
2d Lt B_ Lyons
Maj J A Watkins
Lt Col C J Reilly
Capt E H Dye

Lt. Col H Lockland
Maj H I Woodall Jr.
Maj A R Giroux

Lt Col J R Case

1st Lt J J Bianchi
Maj R G Hanford
Lt Col P B Lamson
Maj M F Skinner
Maj A C Abbott
Maj R H Dodds

Maj D H Alexander
Lt Col F Robie
Capt H W Newell
1st Lt H F Casademont

1st Lt H L Gross
Lt Col Hasting
Maj Boyd

Maj J C Robertson Jr.
Maj Mattox

Capt Wilson

Capt E Fichter
Capt R E Boyd

Maj F P Murray
Capt Himic’

Capt W R Baylies
Lt Quinlan

Maj G Doyle

Capt R A Berry
Capt C V Hansen
Capt S Lesneski
Capt C R Bucheit
Capt J E Hudson
Lt Crowley

1st Lt W N Blanton
Capt A J Dann

1st Lt W S Mather
Lt Col Hanger

Maj H J Mrachek
Maj H T Olsen
Capt L C Smallenberger
Maj E W Manning
Capt S Perlman
Capt O DeBogdan
Capt McCall

Capt W D Baird
Capt A R Sphar
Capt W J Fitzpatrick
Capt J W Fleshman
Capt R W Douglass
Capt A G Albert
Capt E M Martocci
Capt A S Gallant

--- Page 42 ---
OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER
1-379 Kotzting LK Kétzting 1st Lt A Smolens
1-380 Mainburg LK Mainburg Maj W Wickersham
1-381 Mallersdorf LK Mallersdorf Capt S R Jacobs
1-382 Rottenburg LK Rottenburg Ast Lt E A Russo
1-383 Viechtach LK Viechtach Capt A L Corcelius
1-385 Wegscheid LK Wegscheid Capt H Walter

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Co F Munich

E-205 Munich

F-213 Munich

G-236 Partenkirchen
G-237 Ingolstadt
G-238 Munich

H-286 Farstenfeldbruck
H-287 Landsberg
H-288 Piaffenhofen
H-289 Starnberg
H-290 Weilheim
H-291 Wolfratshausen
1-362 Aichach

1-364 Schrobenhausen
1-367 Dachau

1-368 Schingau

CoE Wasserburg
G-231 Freising

G-232 Miesbach

G-233 Traunstein
G-234 Altétting
G-235 Tosenheim
H-280 Erding

H-281 Laufen

H-282 Miahldorf
H-283 Wasserburg
H-284 Bad Télz
H-285 Aibling

H-311 Berchtesgaden
1-361 Ebersberg

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Co G Ziemetshausen
E-206 Augsburg
F-214 Augsburg
G-239 Dillingen
G-240 Weissenhorn
G-241 Sonthofen
G-242 Kempten
H-292 Donauwérth
H-293 Ginzberg
H-294 Markt Oberdorf
H-295 Memmingen
H-296 Mindelheim
H-297 Neuberg
H-298 Nérdlingen
H-299 Fissen

H-300 Krumbach
1-369 Illertissen
1-370 Kaufbeuren
1-372 Wertingen
1-373 Friedberg
1-374 Schwabmiinchen

RB Oberbayern
SK-LS Munich

LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen
SK-LK Ingolstadt
LK Munich

LK Firstenfeldbriick
LK Landsberg

LK Pfaffenhofen
LK Starnberg

LK Weilheim

LK Wolfratshausen
LK Aichach

LK Schrobenhausen.
LK Dachau

LK Schéngau

LK Freising

LK Miesbach

LK Traunstein
LK Altétting
SK-LK Rosenheim
LK Erding

LK Laufen

LK Miahldorf

LK Wasserburg
LK Télz

LK Aibling

LK Berchtesgaden
LK Ebersherg

RB Schwaben
SK-LK Augsburg
LK Dillingen

LK Neu Ulm

LK Sonthofen
SK-LK Kempten
LK Donauworth
LK Ginzberg

LK Markt Oberdorf
LK Memmingen
LK Mindelheim

LK Neuberg a. d. Donau
LK Nordlingen

LK Fissen

LK Krumbach

LK Illertissen

LK Kaufbeuren

LK Wertingen

LK Friedberg

LK Schwabmiinchen

39

Ist Lt W M Ellis
Lt Col J W Hensel
Lt Col E Keller Jr
Lt Coi C H Heyl
Maj L H Norins
Maj M T Mawrence
Capt J J McBride
Maj C A Rein

Maj C A Sloat

Maj M W Nitz
Capt R J O'Dowd
Maj C H Bischoff
Capt L R Day
Maj R'G Hill Jr
Capt V A Burke
Maj C E Carlsen
Capt D E Brown
Maj A G Snow
Maj L L Haupt
Maj F L Tracy
Maj R L Montague
Maj R G MacDonald
Capt H J Bierman
Maj S L Jones Jr
Capt D S Root
Capt M J Groves
Lt Col J. Letteriello
Maj E J Newmeyer
Maj M E DiPietro
Maj G E Horwarth

Capt O Meirhenry
Lt Col R L Hiles
Lt Col R A Norton
Maj Darragh

Capt J M Latimer
Lt Cantiell

Capt B M Ziegler
Capt Proper

Capt M Glossop
Capt J O Renalds
Maj R F Wagner
Maj E C Bunker
Capt W H Oswalt
Capt S H Brown
Capt Lubin

Capt C E Witney
Capt F E Kettunen
Maj E M Ross
Capt R E Hale
Capt J G Van Oot
Capt L E Smith Jr

--- Page 43 ---
OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR

UNIT MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER
U.S. SECTOR, BERLIN DISTRICT
Office of
Mil Govt
(U.S. Sector i
Berlin) U.S. Sector, Berlin District Col F L Howley

(APO 755)

MIL GOVT ELEMENTS REORGANIZED:

Hq 2d Mil Govt Regt
Sv Co 2d Mil Govt Regt

MIL GOVT ELEMENTS ESTABLISHED :

HEADQUARTERS: 1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep)
Hq & Sv Co, 1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep)

Co Hq, Co E, Hq & Sv Co, 1st Mil Govt
Bn (Sep)

Mobile Maint. Plat., Hq & Sv Co, 1st
Mil Govt Bn (Sep)

HEADQUARTERS: 2d Mil Govt Bn (Sep)
Hq & Sv Co 2d Mil Govt Bn (Sep)
Co Hq, Co C Hq & SV Co 2d Mil
Govt Bn (Sep)

Mobile Maint. Plat., Hq & Sv Co 2d
Mil Govt Bn (Sep)

MIL GOVT ELEMENTS DISBANDED:

Hq Co 2d Mil Govt Regt

1st Maint Plat

2d Maint Plat

CoA CoD
CoB CoE
CoC

H4 C2

1112 Bremen Enclave
112C2

1-365, 3d Mil Govt Regt.

40