--- Page 2 ---
NO. 28 — 9 FEBRUARY 1946

Military Government

Weekly
Information Bulletin

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
UNITED. STATES ZONE, GERMANY

Greater Hesse, Wiirttemberg-Baden

HOFGEIS -
Mar

wacoecn awour pats

(HAGE! 5
KASSEL

SwiTZEn=
Saausene

BRITISH 20NE

LY
 2itsen-
s WAIN ( MERSFELO

* RUSSIAN

ZONE

“drauser-

a

me (Nene
Waa he

“W4 ohte ee ne

in/Y aacen
pat oo

sy Lary v4 omund
Seley LL Cote:

Pvt GOPPINGEN

NURTINGEN,

LEGEND a

——— REGIERUNGSBEZIRYE AND £

——— LANDKREISE AND STADTKREISE
e ZONE

L §
. MILES

STATISTICS SECTION
SOURCE OMG-R@! BRANCH

EC GEN STAFF USFET
ieee b

--- Page 4 ---
NO. 28 — 9 FEBRUARY 1946

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---
CONTENTS

PAGE
Military Government Directives . . . ...... . 3
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY.
Is Germany Short of Labor?. . . . 2... 1. 4
German Justice Revamped... ....... 8
GENERAL...............4 4.12
Religious Studies Optional . . . . . . . . . 12
Currency Possession . . . . .. +... 1s . 12
Denazification Sooo 6 08 G6 og a0 60 00 «eH
Centers for Civilianization. . . . . 1... 1. « 43
Hiring of Ex-PW’s. . 2. 1. 1 2 ee ew 13
Fragebogen Priority . . . . .. 2... . . 13
Nazis Must Go. . 2. 1. ee ee 4B
Functional Channels . . . 2... 2... 14
Civilian Job Applications. . . 2... 2... 14
GERMAN REACTIONS ......... .. 15
Where Was The Ultra-Right?. . . . . . 2... 15
PRESS COMMENTS ........... . 18
Columns Be ee ee 18
Radio 8. ww ee ee ee 20
Editorials 2. 2 2 1 1 ee ee ee ee ee 20
Station List 2. 6. 1. 1 we eee 24

--- Page 6 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT LETTERS AND
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED DURING THE WEEK

Amendments to the Directive to Commanding Generals,
Military Districts, dated 7 July 1945, Subject: Administration
of Military Government in the U. S. Zone of Germany.

Amendment concerning denominational schools,
superceding provisions of Par. 14, Section VII,
Part | ;

Functional Channels

Civilian Employment with Military Government, European
Theater

Scheduled Vetting of Reichspost and Transportation Employees

Enforcement of Tiree Letter of 26 November 1945 .

Possession by Military Personnel of German Indigenous Cur-
rency in any Denomination or of other Continental Currency
Notes which Exceed Certain Denominations .

Status of Non-Employment Mandatory Categories’.
Information on Officer Integration .

Overseas Separations to Accept Employment as Civilians
with U. S. Forces in European Theater .

‘Removal ‘of Nazis and Militarists.in.the.German Reichspost .

26 January 1946

‘AG 461.01 GEC-AGO

28 January 1946
OMGUS

28 January 1946
AG 230.14 GAP-AGE

30 January 1946
GEC-EX 014.12
(Germany)

31 January 1946
GEC 388.4 (Germany)

1 February 1946
AG 123 GAP-AGO

2 February 1946
AG 230 GEC-AGO

1 February 1946

"KG 210.3 AGE

2 February 1946.
AG 210.8 x220.8
GAP-AGE

4 February 1946

AG 014.1 GEC-AGO

--- Page 7 ---
Hightights of Policy

IS GERMANY SHORT OF LABOR?

BRIGADIER GENERAL FRANK J. MC SHERRY
DIRECTOR MANPOWER DIVISION OMGUS

Manpower concerns human resources.
We commonly say that a country is
rich in natural resources. We rarely
hear anyone boast that his country is
rich in human resources: We don’t envy
China or India.

The manpower problem, therefore, may
be said to consist of how to employ
human beings. An harmonious combi-
nation of these factors is difficult to
achieve, but it is generally agreed that an
orderly, organized society cannot exist un-
less an effort is

only two-thirds as large as that of
republican Germany, will have to support
a population only 4 percent smaller than
it was in May 1939. The American
occupied areas already have a population
10 percent greater than the same areas
in 1939, and before the end of 1946 the
increase will probably be over 25 per-
cent — 19 million people instead of 15
million.

The upward trend of the population
runs counter to usual developments
during and after a

made to approximate
this ideal. For this
reason there are man-
power divisions in
all the Allied mili-
tary governments of
Germany, and a co-

. . doing about it.
ordinated policy on

Is there enough labor in Germany to clothe,
feed and house 67 million Germans? Military
Government thinks not, but except for guid-
ance and democratization, places the problem
on the Germans to solve. The Manpower
Division of OMGUS tells why there is a
labor shortage, and what the Germans are

war. It invalidates
all estimates made
before and imme-
diately after V-E
day, because it was
not foreseen that all
Germans in Reich
territories annexed

manpower is_ being

sought. Beyond vigilant euidancel con-
cerning productivity and democratization
however, the problem belongs to the Ger-
mans themselves.

DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGES

Germany today proves that population
and manpower are not synonymous. A
large number of people does not
necessarily mean that a large amount
of labor is available. Germany is rich
in the former and poor in the latter. A
count of heads would show nearly as
many people as ever. By the end of
this year 66 to 67 million people may
inhabit what is left of the Old German
Reich. The present rump Reich, an area

by the USSR and
Poland would be evicted along with Volks-
deutsche in Czechoslovakia and Hungary.
The United States at the quadripartite level
agreed to accept in the American zone,
2,250,000 Germans expelled from these
territories. The expulsion, and by infer-
ence the influx into the American zone,
was agreed to be “orderly,” both for
humanitarian and practical reasons.
Trainloads of these “expellees” will
double the population of the majority
of rural Kreise to which they must be
directed in order to keep them out of
the ruined cities. The unauthorized refu-
gees from Eastern Europe and from other
zones in Germany may swell the influx
by another 500,000 this year.

--- Page 8 ---
The “expellees” and refugees combined
with the devastations of war has changed
the whole structure of the population.
The devastation in terms of human lives,
stamina and efficiency cannot be meas-
ured so easily or so accurately as the
number of houses destreyed, railway
trackage plowed up or bridges demo-
lished. The most conspicuous however,
are the preponderance of women and the
scarcity of young men. The combat age
group, men aged 18 to 35, has been
decimated. And since the best labor is
also drawn from this age group, the
effects on the labor force are serious.

WAR-DEPLETED POPULATION

Under normal conditions of population
growth there would now have been 10
million men aged 18 to 35 in the territory
of the Old Reich proper. Today only
7,500,000 of them are believed to be alive.
That is adecrease of 25 percent, accepting
the lowest estimate of military deaths
(300,000) and assuming that somewhat
rover 80 percent of all the German war
dead were in the combat age group.

At least another 25 percent are still
prisoners of war. About a million, or 10
percent of the total in the age group,
are believed to have been permanently
incapacitated at the front by shot or
shell, disease or frost. Of another 10
percent originally rejected as unfit for
military service, a part — probably
100,000 — is unsuited for manual labor.
A fraction of those exempted from the
draft because they held key positions
in civil life were killed in air raids, in
concentration camps or during the fight-

It adds up to the fact that about
4 million of the original 10 million men
in the prime of life are left in Germany
for hard work in civilian occupations.
The war and its aftermath has cut out six
of every 10. No one knows exactly how
many there are left, but the figure of
4 million is deemed a fair estimate.

The stamina of the whole working
population and of boys now coming
to the age of 18 has been under-
mined physically and psychologically
by malnutrition and the strain of
the last few years. Present physical
examinations and uncovered records of
the Wehrmacht recruiting offices show
this very plainly. There was a marked
deterioration in the fitness of young men
from year to year during the war, and in
spite of the lowering of medical stand-
ards the number of army rejects increased
proportionately. In 1944 one out of
every four drafted men in the combat
age group had to be deferred from com-
bat training in order to pass “fattening
up courses” of. from two to three months.

Comprehensive or comparable figures
today are not available. Recent medical
examinations of the unemployed in
Heidelberg revealed that only 15 per-
cent could be classed as fully employable.
The present caloric allowance in food
rations has undoubtedly contributed to
these findings. In December, 15 percent
of the registered labor force of over
half a million in the Berlin sector of
the American zone was classed as un-
employable. This was 35 percent of
the total unemployed. The high percent-
age is partly explainable by the fact
that the registered age groups were from
14 to 65 for men and 18 to 45 for women.
Students, housewives and others were
considered unemployable because they
were not in a position to take jobs. In
Bavaria under similar registration circum-
stances unemployables and partial
employables constituted over 55 percent
of the recorded unemployed.

SEX RATIO

The greatly reduced number of able-
bodied men and the decline in physical
condition of the remainder naturally
lowered the percentage of the male pop-
ulation available for manual labor, the
type of labor most needed. The decrease

--- Page 9 ---
in: the number of adult males also had
the effect of increasing the proportion
of females in the total population. In
1939 there were 105 females of all ages
in the Old Reich for every 100 males.
More than 20 years of natural population
increase had not made good the losses
in men of World War I. The dispropor-
tion between males and females after
World War II is being accentuated by
the influx of “expellees” and refugees,
an abnormally high percentage of whom
are female.

The net result of both these factors
— the war losses in men and the in-
crease in women — is that the percentage
of employables in the total population
has declined. In the present American-
occupied areas of Germany slightly more
than half the total population was. gain-
fully employed before thé war. This in-
cludes the so-called family helpers but
excludes housewives. On an average the
labor of one person supported one other.
Registration figures indicate that at the
present time only about a third of the
population is working or able to work.
And. it is very possible that in the near
future one working German will have to
support three non-workers.

FULL-TIME WORK UNPROFITABLE

General economic conditions at the mo-
ment favor the trend towards a lower
working population. The incentive to work
is not great. Spending power is limited
by food rationing, fixed prices and the
searity of clothing and other consumers’
goods. City dwellers with some savings
and personal possessions can live better
by foraging for food and fuel than by
working for paper marks.

Curtailed spending power is also
one of the main causes of absenteeism.
Labor office estimates in cities such
as Ulm show that office and factory
illness and avoidable absenteeism are on
the increase. When people can earn all
they may legitimately spend by working
fewer than the official 48 hours a week,

they find that taking .time off to cut
and . haul. firewood, for. | example,
increases their standard of comfort more
than working for wages. All factors
considered, the rate of absenteeism is
probably higher than the estimated 20
percent. During the war a rate of 10 to
12 percent was considered normal and
unavoidable. In bombing target areas the
rate in 1944 was 15 to 17 percent, even
in high priority war industries where
every conceivable inducement was offered
to keep employes at work full-time.

HUMAN RECONVERSION PROBLEM

The war has brought about a special
problem. of. reconversion. In the United
States reconversion is largely a matter
of reconverting war industries and main-
taining purchasing. power. In Germany
the problem .is mainly the conversion
of manpower, which means re-allocation |
and re-training. The ban on the produc-
tion of war materials required by the
Allies, the restrictions on heavy industrial
production in ‘general and the Allied
decision to hold the German standard
of living at a level no higher than the
European average will necessitate major
readjustments in the occupational struc-
ture of Germany. How revolutionary this
change will be can only be surmised be-
cause quadripartite decisions about the
permitted level of industrial activity are
still pending.

The picture of May 1939 is
worth bearing in mind. At that time
22.5 percent of the population in the
present American occupied areas, exclud-
ing Berlin, were dependent on agri-
culture and forestry for a livelihood; 38.5
percent were dependent on manufacturing;
15.1. percent on trade, commerce and
transport; 9.7 percent on public service
or free professional activity; 1.3 percent
on domestic service and 12.3 percent on
social insurance -benefits, pensions or
interest on investments. Since the end
of the war the percentage dependent on
agriculture has greatly increased and will

--- Page 10 ---
probably continue to increase, while all
other occupational groups will probably
decline.

Some occupational adjustments are
being made voluntarily, but there is
widespread reluctance, especially on the
part of former office workers, to take
more menial jobs. To encourage and
speed such adjustments is one of the
foremost problems today.

A study of three Regicrungsbezirke
in Bavaria showed that 15 per cent
of all male employed and 8 percent
of all female employed were working
in occupations outside those in which
they were registered

cally all the large cities of the American-
occupied areas. They cater in general
to two types: (1) youths and returned
war veterans who have not had civilian
jobs, and (2) adults who used to work
at trades which have no future or which
are no longer vital. Standards have had
to be lowered and the apprenticeship pe-
riod cut in many places from _ the
normal three years to two.

The re-training courses vary from three
weeks to six months. To fill irimediate
needs some labor offices are conducting
advertising campaigns to attract labor to
the building trades. The results have not

been startling but

at the labor office.
About 27 percent of
the male white-collar
workers were doing

ARE YOU BEING

they have been suf-
ficient to assure the
success of the emer-
gency program for

Followed?

THE |WIB IS EAGER TO FOLLOW YOU
WHEREVER YOU GO. BUT FIRST, YOU'VE
GOT TO TELL US WHERE YOU'VE GONE.
PLEASE REMEMBER .. .

NOTIFY US PROMTLY OF
CHANGE OF ADDRESS

the winterization of
houses damaged by
bombs.

Steps have been
taken to rehabilitate
the disabled and the
handicapped. Under

something else, so
were 22 percent of
the engineers and
technicians, 19 per-
cent of the metal
workers, 18 percent
of the food industry

workers and 13 per-
cent. of the trans-
port workers. In
Wiirttemberg-Baden;

.+. AND INCLUDE BOTH YOUR OLD AND
NEW ADDRESS WHEN YOU WRITE.

German law still in
force factories. are
required to employ
at least two percent

it is estimated that

there are 50 male applicants and 55
female applicants for every vacancy of
the white collar type.

Throughout the American zone un-
employment and the need for labor exist
side by side. The job openings are largely
in agriculture, forestry and the construc-
tion trades, for all of which varying
degrees of brawn and skill are required.
There is also a large unsatisfied demand
for male common labor, though there is a
surplus of unskilled female labor. Voca-
tional direction and re-training seem to
be the only solution for the Germans.

VOCATIONAL RETRAINING
Training schools, especially for the
building trades, are operating in practi-

of disabled employ-
ees, but owners as a general rule are
loath to comply.

The tasks German officials have tackled
under supervision of MG are stupendous.
Progress has been slow because it has
taken a long time to restore administra-
tive machinery. And when all is said and
done manpower is not on isolated prob-
lem. Its solution depends (and what labor
officer isn’t continously reminded of it!)
on the supply of coal and power for in-
dustries, on transport, on raw materials,
on adequate working clothes, on economic
conditions generally, to say nothing of
the intangible incentives such as hope
and faith in the future.

--- Page 11 ---
wR wi —

GERMAN JUSTICE =%

a
—_—_—_——

The launching of a revised criminal code in all
three Linder of the US Zone seeks to re-estab-
lish humanitarian and equitable principles in the

administration of justice.

REVAMPED

When Allied Forces under General
Eisenhower’s command broke through the
Siegfried Line and swept across the
Rhine, they found that civil litigation had
come almost to a standstill and that what
there was left of criminal justice had been
subverted to the demands of total war.
They did not come unprepared -for the
emergency.

Courts were closed completely for a
time to permit the vetting of personnel
which, as in other branches of German
government, had been largely infected
with nazism, and to provide an _ op-
portunity for eliminating the worst fea-
tures of nazi doctrine. Long and careful
study of the more than 9,000 laws, ordin-
ances and decrees enacted since 1933 had
convinced the Allied command that
outright repeal of all such legislation
was neither feasible nor desirable but
that a more painstaking surgical process
was required. The worst laws were
suspended at once, and general principles
were laid down to reestablish certain
fundamental concepts of justice and to
prevent the application of any invidiously
discriminatory laws pending the com-
pletion of the survey of German law.
Finally, before criminal justice could
function properly in German courts, their
independence had to be re-established,
their jurisdiction fixed, and applicable
procedure settled in detail so that every
one could be certain what law governed.
This has now been accomplished, within
the U.S. Zone by a revised code for the
administration of criminal justice. *

TO FREE THE COURTS

To restore in Germany the rule of
law, which is essential to liberty and true
democracy, it was necessary first to guar-
antee the independence of the judicial
process from outside interference. Thus,
while the power of the executive in the
appointment of judges and in the admin-
istrative supervision of the courts was
recognized and maintained, the shackles
which the nazi tyranny had put upon the
German judiciary were struck off. A law
for the administration of justice was
announced which recognized judicial in-
dependence as a basic objective. This
principle was extended to all of Germany
by the Control Council which proclaimed
that “Judges will be independent from
executive control when exercising their
functions and owe obedience only to the
law. Access to judical functions will be
open to all who accept democratic prin-
ciples without regard to race, social
origin or religion. The promotion of

*In the article, “New Criminal Justice jor Ger-
many,” published in Weekly Information Bulletin
No. 2, p. 6, it was reported that the revised codes
would be given effect by Military Government law.
In view of the fact that the codes are in German
text, however, and in line with the policy that German
authorities assume primary responsibility for legislation
and for the operation of the machinery of government,
it was felé more appropriate to enact these codes as
German legislation and it was so agreed at the meet-
ing of the Ministers of Justice at Stuttgart on
December 18, 1945. In the British Zone, similar
codes were placed in operation by instructions to
judges but have since been declared to be law by a
Military Government ordinance.

--- Page 12 ---
judges will be based solely on merit and
legal qualification.”* Although these pre-
cepts seem self-evident to us every one
of them had been honored by the nazis
only in the breach.

HITLER‘S TOOLS

When Hitler assumed power, he did
not find that all judges were pas-
sionately devoted to democracy or
even hostile to nazi theories and
doctrines. The leniency of the courts to-
ward nazi and militarist violence against
political adversaries and against the
state itself had been a factor in under-
mining respect for law and weakening the
foundations of the Weimar Republic.
Many judges, however willing they may
have been to apply faithfully such legis-
lation as the nazi machine poured upon
the statute books, were by reason of their
training reluctant, perhaps unable, to be-
come dynamic instruments of nazi po-
licy. They had difficulty in giving a nazi
twist to still-unrepealed pre-nazi law
or disregarding it when convenient, and
in using forcefully and to “good pur-
pose” the discretionary clauses, such as
the new analogy principle in the criminal
code. The party, especially as represent-
ed by those without legal training, was
impatient. It was not content to have on
the bench judges who were mere lackeys
but wanted men imbued with the fanati-
cism of the “old fighters.”

Despite the facade of legalism behind
which the regime liked to carry on its
schemes, this thought runs through ut-
terances of nazi “bigwigs” in that period
though always carefully hedged with
phrases giving lip service to judicial free-
dom. Thus one assault after another was
made upon the judicial system. These as-
saults were successful in a passive sense:
Judical independence was reduced to a
mere shadow. They did not, on the whole,
succeed in infusing into the courts a pas-

*See Article IV of Control Council Proclama-
tion No. 3.

sionate zeal for advancing the nazi revo-
lution of their own accord.

The attack took various forms, Power
over the courts was acquired by the
centralization of the administration of
justice, in 1934 and 1935, under the
Reich Ministry of Justice. The law per-
mitting removal of any official who could
not be relied upon to support the na-
tional socialist state unreservedly at all
times was applied to judges. A few years
later this appeared somewhat softened
by enactment of a provision that retire-
ment of a judge for such cause could
not be based on the material con-
tent of a decision. Yet these measures did
not seem sufficient. On April 26, 1942,
Hitler, using the Reichstag as a sounding
board, denounced the judiciary for its
leniency and failure to recognize the call
of the times. The Reichstag, utterly
disregarding “so-called vested rights” and
prescribed procedures, confirmed the
sweeping power of the Fiihrer, to punish,
divest of his rank and remove from of-
fice any judge or other official who failed
to do his duty as a “German.” This start-
ed the attack in earnest.

JUSTICE COERCED

The Minister of Justice regularly
issued confidential letters (Richter-
briefe) to judges and _ prosecutors
who, of course, knew what await-
ed them if they did not “do their
duty.” One can imagine the content of
those letters. To cap the climax, the
Presidents of the Oberlandesgerichte (the
highest courts of the Lander) were ad-
monished to keep themselves informed of
important pending cases through the Pres-
idents of the Senates, of those courts,
and of the Landgerichte (the next lower
courts). They were to meet personally
with the Landgerichts-Praésidenten from
time to time and offer advice and counsel
to them in a “comradely way” should dif-
ficulties exist. Bluntly stated, this was
an injunction to exercise political in-
fluence upon the decision of individual

--- Page 13 ---
cases. Finally, junior judges were at-
tached to certain courts and judges with
the understanding that they were to act
under instruction.

JURISTICTION CURTAILED

In view of the attitude of the nazi
party toward the regular courts and its
lack of success in converting such courts
into spearheads of nazi policy, itis not sur-
prising that the regime greatly curtailed
their jurisdiction and largely trans-
ferred it to other tribunals. Thus, the
People’s Courts and certain so-called
“Sondergerichte” (special courts) were
created, staffed with reliable nazis, and
given jurisdiction to try various types of
political offenses, certain economic of-
fenses, and any other offense brought
before them by the public prosecutor.
Orders and acts of the Gestapo, as well
as of the ordinary police on political
matters, were placed beyond the juris-
diction of the regular courts by special
legislation in Prussia and by tacit under-
standing elsewhere.

Disputes between the party and its mem-
bers, or between members of the party,were
decided by party courts unless (such courts
consented to the submission of the case to a
regular court. Jurisdiction of the police to
impose fines and imprisonment for of-
fenses — so-called “Polizeistrafverfiigun-
gen” — was substantially extended. Jews,
Poles, and other special groups discrim-
inated against were placed beyond the
jurisdiction of any court and exclusively
within the power of the police. Finally,
the police and the Gestapo were given
the right, without accusation of any
breach of the law and without trial, to
impose “protective custody” either in jail
or in the justly-feared concentration
camps. All these encroachments upon the
liberty of the individual and the juris-
diction of the regular courts have now
been swept away, by the new criminal
code.

A problem which requires further con-
sideration involves the re-introduction of

10

the lay element into the judicial system
of the German criminal courts.

Prior to 1939, lay judges (Schéffen)
sat with a regular judge in the Amtsge-
richt (the lowest regular criminal court)
as a so-called “Schéffengericht” (lay as-
sessors’ court) in the trial of some of the
more seriaus types of offenses. At the
Landgericht there were two criminal tri-
bunals, the Great Criminal Chamber
(Grosse Strafkammer), and the Small
Criminal Chamber (Kleine Strafkammer).
The Great Criminal Chamber was com-
posed of three regular judges and two
lay assessors (Schéffen) and had juris-
diction of all major offenses not within
the jurisdiction of {the Amtsgericht, where-
as the Small Criminal Chamber (1 judge,
2 assessors), acted as court of appeals
against judgments of the Amtsrichter.

JURORS REDUCED

The court of assizes (Schwurgericht)
was used for the trial of the most serious
crimes, other than treason and similar of-
fenses. The term “Schwurgericht” had been
a misnomer ever since 1924 when the “Ge-
schworenen” (jurors) were reduced from
twelve to six and their functions so
changed as to convert the court into what
was in fact indistinguishable from a large
“Schéffengericht” composed of three pro-
fessional judges and six jurors.

The distinction between the two
courts is this: In a  Schéffenge-
richt, which is an_ institution indig-

enous to Germany, the lay assessors sit
and decide upon all questions with the
regular judges, including questions of
fact and law and the ultimate question of
guilt. In the traditional jury court, which
was introduced in Germany in 1877 and
taken from the Anglo-American system,
the jurors, usually twelve, sit separately
from the judge’s bench, take their in-
structions in the law from the judges,
and in secret session apply the instruc-
tions to the facts as found by them and
deliberate upon a verdict which they

--- Page 14 ---
report to the court. At the outbreak of the
war, the participation of lay judges at
both levels was abolished.

TRIAL BY JURY?

The new codes give authority to the
Ministers of Justice to reintroduce the
institution of lay judges at both levels
and to determine how such courts should
be constituted, their jurisdiction, and
their procedure. The reinfusion of the
lay element into the judicial process as
soon as conditions permit is undoubtedly
desirable in ‘order to democratize the
administration of criminal justice in Ger-
many.

Whether these mixed courts should
be recreated in the old form, existing up
to September 1, 1939, or whether a tradi-
tional jury system .should be crea-
ted is, however, a different question. While
we have always regarded trial by jury
as essential to the preservation of our
liberties, it can hardly be insisted that
this form of mixed court be imposed
upon the German people regardless of
German experience. Jury courts have been
fairly popular here, but they have met

with considerable criticism on the part.

+of legal writers and of judges whose ex-
perience with them has not been a happy
one. Eventually, of course, the Germans
will be able to decide through their legis-
latures which system they desire or
whether both should be used. In the
meantime, the choice may be left to the
Ministers of Justice.

JURISDICTION

Under the new codes, the jurisdiction
of the Amtsgericht will be limited to the
imposition of fines, sentences of deten-
tion, imprisonment not exceeding five
years without hard labor, and imprison-
ment not exceeding two years with hard
labor. The Landgericht, as a court of
first’ instance, will have jurisdiction of
all cases in which the Amtsgericht would
not have jurisdiction to impose ap-
propriate punishment.

11

It will depend to a large extent upon
the judge of the Amtsgericht and the
public prosecutor to determine provi-
sionally what, in the event of conviction
would be an appropriate punishment’and
thus before which court the matter should
be brought to trial.

NAZI LAW vs. NEW CODES

Some of the more salient differences be-
tween the Nazi law and the new codes
affecting the rights of the accused, de-
serve mentioning.

1. Rights pending tridl: Apart
from the very important abrogation
of the power of the police to con-
fine persons obnoxious to the regime
without charge or trial; a vital difference
exists between nazi law and the new law
inencroachments upon the accused’s liberty
and property rights pending trial. Nazi
law gave the public prosecutor broad
powers to order searches and seizures
and issue warrants for arrest on his
own responsibility. Under the nazis a
man’s home was neither castle nor refuge,
and his liberty was cheap.

Moreover, the duty of the court pe-
riodically to review the propriety of a
person’s detention, painstakingly regula-
ted before the advent of the Hitler re-
gime by the so-called Lex Héfle, was
reduced to a mere sham by nazi amend-
ments converting pre-existing provisions
to a, four-line theoretical requirment that
the court constantly consider on its own
motion whether continuation of custody is
necessary or proper. The old provisions,
with their meticulous regard for individ-
ual liberty and their requirement of care-
ful review of pre-trial custody at fixed
intervals will now be restored. The pub-
lic prosecutor will no longer be able to
order arrests or searches and seizures
without prior judicial order, except when
delay would be dangerous. In such an
event judicial approval must be promptly
obtained : thereafter.

Continuied on page 22

--- Page 15 ---
General

in Public Schools USFET Orders

No German school which draws on
public funds shall compel a student to
attend classes for religious instruction,
or refuse children the possibility of re-
ceiving religious instruction, it has been
ordered by USFET, in a statement of
agreed quadripartite policy and imple-
menting instructions.

When a suitable number of students
is available, such religious instruction
shall be given as an optional part of the
regular school curriculum in_ school
buildings and in school time for not less
than two hours a week. No teacher may
be compelled to give such instruction.

The appropriate German authorities
will determine all matters concerning
denominational schools drawing on public
funds, religious instruction in German
schools and schools maintained and di-
rected by various religious organizations
in accordance with local traditions. The
wishes of the population will be taken
into consideration insofar as they can
be determined and in conformity with
the general directives governing the
control of education in all subjects and
all schools, including the purging of
personnel and curricula.

At the request of parents, guardians,
or of such other persons as may have the
legal right to determine the education
of the child, schools of their creed or
philosophy of life are to be established
within the framework of the general
system of elementary education, provided
a suitable number of pupils is concerned.

12

Currency Possession

Possession by U.S. military personnel
of German-issue currency (Reichsbank
currency) in any denomination will be
considered sufficient cause for investi-
gation as to source and as to means by
which it was acquired, USFET again
has pointed out in connection with the
revising of a currency directive of last
April.

Also considered a cause for investiga-
tion will be posession of Belgian, French,
Netherlands or Austrian currency in de-
nominations greater than the following:
Belgian fr. 1,000; French fr. 5,000; Ne-
therlands 100 florins; Austrian 1,000
schillings.

The above figures do not pertain to the
total amount which may be held in an
individual’s possession but refer only to
the denomination of each.

Appropriate disciplinary action will be
taken in cases where the facts uncovered
by the investigation warrants.

Denazification

Reichspost employees removed as nazis
or militarists may not be demoted to
common labor if qualified persons of
higher employment priority are available,
states a USFET directive. Local labor
office facilities will be used to help
locate such qualified personnel.

--- Page 16 ---
Centers for Civilianization

Major commands have been directed
by USFET to establish separation cen-
ters and take final action to discharge
military personnel to accept civilian em-
ployment in the theater.

Personnel will not be sent te reinforce-
ment depots for separation.

Hiring of Ex-PWs

Repatriated German prisoners of war
considered for employment by Military
Government or, by the German civil gov-
ernment must be re-screened by the Spe-
cial Branch before hiring, in accordance
with the appropriate denazification direct-
ives, USFET has ordered. Experience in-
dicates that such re-screening is neces-
sary to eliminate undesirable candidates.

Many words have been spoken, many direc-
tives written, defining and describing MG policy
in Germany. Few have expressed our policy
as tacitly and simply as the OMGUS order
reprinted below. MG personnel should bear
in mind in all dealings with Germans the. last
statement in the order; “The efficiency of the
German Government is not itself our respon-
sibility except as a lack of efficiency interferes
with the execution of the approved United
States policy.”

Fragebogen Priority

USFET has instructed Special Branch
offices to give priority attention to hand-
ling backlogged fragebogen of Reichspost
and transportation employes. Deadlines
scheduled by previous directives for vett-
ing these employees have already passed
without being met.

Nazis Must Go

Steps designed to correct the situation
whereby substantial numbers of persons
are being retained in their work, contrary
to denazification. directives, have been
taken by USFET.

Special Branch officers on 15 February
and on the 15th of each month thereafter
will submit a report to the detachment
directors with information copies to the
Land Offices of Military Government and
to Headquarters USFET listing the
following: :

a. The names of all persons in non-
employment mandatory categories who
have been retained or employed contrary
to directives from USFET, showing the
position held by each and including the
function, such as public safety, legal,
public health, ete.

b. The same :in-

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U. S)
Office of the Depuly Military Governor

AG 014.1 (AG) - aes,
MEMORANDUM TO: All CMGUS Personnel

INSTRUCTIONS TO MINISTER PRESIDENTS

1. It is desired that the following instructions be at hand for

constant reference.

2. In general, the instructions to Minister Presidents should be
confined to the fullest extent possible to the delineation of policies
and should avoid detailed instructions as to the execution of such

policies,

3. The German Laender Governments should be required to prepare
and present plans for execution of policy for the approval of Military
Government. The action of Military Government on such plans should be
based only on the compliance of the proposed plans with United States
policy and not on its views of the efficiency of the plan. The effi-
ciency of German government is not in itself our responsibility except
as a lack of efficiency interferes with the exe

States policy.
FOR THE DEPUTY MILITARY GOVERNOR:

Telephone BERLIN 42031

Fr. W.
Lieutenant Colonel, AGD
Adjutant General

formation on all
persons in non-
employment man-
datory categories
on whom action
sheets have been
outstanding for
more than 30 days.

On reciept of
such a report, the
detachment. direc-
tors will issue or-
ders to the ap-
propriate local
German  authori-
ties to remove all
persons who have
been so listed and
who have been

16 January 1946

f approved Uni:

HALL

--- Page 17 ---
retained or employed contrary, to USFET
directives. The directors will also submit
a report on the last day of each month
indicating the date on which each person
was removed.

Functional Channels

The continued transfer of functions
and personnel from the Office of Military
Government (U.S. Zone), Frankfurt, to
the Office of Military Government for
Germany (U.S.), which in some functions
has already resulted in the transfer of
the entire responsibility to Berlin, in-
creases the necessity for utilization of
functional channels directly from Berlin
to the Land Offices of Military Govern-
ment.

A recent USFET directive stipulates
that functional communications enunciat-
ing new policy or directing execution of
a new program, where the main office is
in Berlin, will be prepared by the office
or division concerned for transmittal to
the directors of the Land Offices of Mil-
itary Government over the Chief of
Staff’s signature. This also will be done
for any functional communication result-
ing from a staff study requiring approval
of the Deputy Military Governor or the
Chief of Staff. Information copies will be
sent to the Office of Military Govern-
ment (U.S. Zone) by the Secretary
General.

In functional fields closely related to
army activities, or where operating
responsibility is still at Frankfurt, all
proposed directives will be sent to the
Office of Military Government (U. S.
Zone), which will effect the neces-
sary coordination within Headquarters,
USFET, and arrange publication in
Frankfurt. |

Civilian Job Applications

The procedure to follow in applying
for ‘civilian employment with Military
Government, European Theater, has been
outlined in a USFET directive.

14

The applications will be initiated by
executing Standard Form No. 57, “Appli-
cation for Federal Employment,” or fac-
simile thereof, in duplicate, together with
a letter requesting employment as a ci-
vilian after discharge from the armed
forces. ,

Both copies of Form 57 and the letter
of request will be forwarded to the head-
quarters having custody of the applicant’s
personnel records (Service Record, Sol-
dier Qualification Card, etc.). The office
having _these records will indorse the
letter of request giving the following in-
formation: Sick record; assignment re-
cord; character and efficiency ratings; all
violations of Articles of War, stating
charges and disciplinary action (a nega-
tive statement will be made when the
individual has no record of breach of
military discipline) ; and approval or dis-
approval, with reasons if disapproved.
Also, a statement of any other factor
bearing on the suitability of the applicant
for federal employment is desired.

The original application and the in-
dorsed letter then will be forwarded to
the nearest civilian personnel office,
which will review the applicant’s quali-
fications in connection with existing va-
cancies within its jurisdiction and will,
in appropriate cases, take necessary ac-
tion to effect the employment of the in-
dividual concerned. Applications that can-
not be utilized locally will be referred in
sequence through higher echelons so that
the applicant will be considered for all
theater vacancies. If there is no suitable
vacancy in the theater, the individual will
be so advised by the Adjutant General,
Headquarters, USFET, and the applica-
tion will be properly classified and filed
in that office for consideration for fu-
ture vacancies.

The duplicate application, with asigned
copy of the indorsement, will be forward-
ed direct to Headquarters, USFET, APO
757, Attention of Director, Office of Mili-
tary Government (U.S. Zone).

--- Page 18 ---
German Reactions

Where Was The UJ

In the Recent Election?

All who have studied the results of
the recent Gemeinde elections held on
the 20th and 27th of January in the
United States Zone were no doubt struck
by.the fact that, for all practical pur-
poses, no extreme right political party
was able. to poll more than an insigni-
ficant fraction of the votes cast. It was
variously assumed that many of the con-
servatives who would have voted for
candidates of the right were disfranchised
because of their nazi affiliations, and
that many others had “seen tle light”
and swung over to the less extreme con-
servatism represented by the “Christian”
parties. Furthermore, it was noted that
the so-called independent. candidates and
splinter parties polled an extraordinarily
large percentage of the votes cast. Many
of: these were, no doubt, - non-political
votes, but many more, there can be no
question, were cast by people whose
sympathies and allegiance would have
gone to a recognized ultra-conservative
party, had any such presented itself with
sufficiently energetic leadership to enlist
support.

-The failure of the right, then, must be
attributed more to a lack of organization
and leaders than to a lack of followers.
If, before the next elections, a conserva-

15

Itra-Right

Reports from Greater Hesse and
Wiarttemberg-Baden Indicate Pos-
sible Consolidation of Forces in the
Coming Lander Voting.

tive party with capable leaders were to
be established in the United States Zone,
it can be safely assumed that it could
challenge the lead taken by the “Chri-
stian” parties. Such a party could count
upon support from conservative Pro-
testants who are none too happy in the
self-styled non-denominational confession-
al parties, from malcontents -who did
not vote or who voted “independent”
tickets, and from the splinter parties.

GREATER HESSE REPORTS

Summary of MG reports from Greater
Hesse offers the following analysis of the
position and role of the rightist. parties
in. that area. The . weaknesses,  in-
consistencies and contradictions. of the
rightist parties throughout the Zone are
exeinplified in the situation here given.

“The German ‘Right,’ the party of the
second part in Harzburger Front, has
until now -been in- hibernation, with a
few. of its intellectuals resting on the
laurels earned by their remote connection
with the “20 July Plot.” Some activity
can now be noted, however, and though
only a vulgarization of their program has
been publicized by the National Democ-
ratic Party, its main points are ready to
be put before the public. The leaders of

--- Page 19 ---
this group are few in number but be-
cause of their positions in university
circles they are playing important roles
in present public life. A basic point in
their program is, strangely enough, a con-
demnation of the Weimar Republic, with
its multiple party system. It is not the
nazi regime, therefore, but the Weimar
constitution which allegedly made nazism
possible, that is bearing the brunt of their
criticism.

In order to avoid future repetition of
the mistakes of Weimar these conser-
vative elements are now advocating adop-
tion of the two party system. To: ac-
complish this aim they propose to elim-
inate the party list system of election
and to replace it with single candidate
election districts. They hope thereby to
give candidates who cannot conform to
the narrow framework of party discipline
a chance to come before the voters. They
claim it will also result in a better se-
lection of representatives and will give
the German people an intellectual leader-
ship. Bae
To safeguard the hegemony of this
leadership it is proposed to restrict the
franchise to persons over 25 years of
age with certain other qualifications. The
executive agencies representing the ma-
jority party are to be given legislative
powers or powers of legislation by decree.
The tendency is to promote a government
as strongly centralized as the Allies will
permit, based upon a federation of about
ten Lander of equal size whose forma-
tion is to be based upon economic and
political aspects rather than upon tra-
dition.

HARZBURGER PROGRAM

The program of the former Harz-
burgers is based on the traditional pol-
icies of the propertied class, but is
clothed in the erudite language of college
professors. They advocate a free econ-
omy: with the functions of the state limit-
ed to: police powers and the prevention
of unfair practices. They reject the con-

16

cept of the national guilt of the German
people as well as the denazification pro-
gram. Guilt, it is claimed, can be shared
only by rational beings who are in
control of their destinies. A people who
are merely the objects of political po-
licy rather than its formulators cannot
be charged with crimes in which pre-
meditation is an essential element. The
proponents of this ideology are at the
moment restricted to the intellectual cir-
cles of the university towns. A number
of industrialists are now beginning to
join them, however.

FREE ENTERPRIZE SUPPORTED

The National Democratic Party, with
headquarters in Bad Nauheim, is ad-
vocating a coarse vernacular version of
this program, culogizing the system of
private property and castigating the state
for its interference in the economic pro-
cess. It advocates the restoration to pri-
vate owners of many of the state-owned
enterprises. Economically the state is to

.be organized on an estate system, with

all Germans falling into one of the seven
proposed estates. Each estate is to ar-
range all matters concerning its members,
including wages, hours of work, public
welfare, etc. The state itself is not to
engage in or subsidize any enterprise
in competition with private entrepreneurs.
A two party system askin to the English
is advocated. One of the parties is to be
a National Democratic Party, which is
to unite all non-Marxian elements. Other
points in the program are the reorganiza-
tion of Germany into a federal state with
Frankfurt as its capital, abolition of pro-
portional representation by the institu-
tion of the single seat electoral district,
and the formation of a West European
Confederacy of Nations under the leader-
ship of Great Britain.

The National Democrats are now at-
tempting to organize on a Land level in
Greater Hesse. Dr. H. Leuchtgens, leader
iof the party, has been busying himself
with the alignment of individuals in dif-

--- Page 20 ---
ferent Kreise for organizational purposes.
In Wiesbaden several politically indistinct
and nondescript individuals are trying
to form another Kreis organization at
his request.

The leadership of the Christian De-
mocratic Union is watching very closely
all developments on the right. They con-
siders all attempt to form new parties as
mere political charlatanism. Some of its
leaders, however, are complaining about
the reactionary tendencies emanating from
the Church itself and tending to disrupt
Christian unity.

The internal organization of Germany
is another moot question with the
Christian Democrats. While some are in-
clined towards a federation, others also
advocate that such a federation be headed
by Bavaria. Several members of the
Greater Hesse executive committee have
proposed a two party system based on a
strong Christian Democratic Union. and
a strong Socialist Party. The former,
they say, is programmatically tolerant
enough to include anyone who is to the
right of the Socialists except the anti-
democratic and intransigent elements.”

WURTTEMBERG-BADEN REPORTS
(Reprinted)

Present political leadership in Germany
is very conscious of the liabilities it in-
herited from the ill-fated Weimar Re-
public and of the disrepute into which
German democratic leadership has fallen.
To divest itself of these liabilities and
to restore the prestige of the democratic
movements of the days preceding ‘the
advent of Hitler to power, is a primary
concern of German political leadership
today. It is seeking to accomplish this
by disavowing the collective guilt of the
Germans for the rise of nazism and the

17

fall of the Republic and distributing
responsibility among domestic and fo-
reign political and economic interests.

Among the cardinal principles guiding
German political leadership today is that
of independence. The idea is emphasized
that Germany cannot commit herself to
follow the lead of any foreign power
without ultimately inviting internal and
external strife. It is alleged that the
present division into four zones, exposes
Germany to the danger of becoming hope-
Jessly split up into so many political
camps. Such a split, it is argued, can
be averted only if the political parties
succeed in maintaining their organizational,
and ideological independence and in re-
sisting outside pressure to conform to
any particular pattern or policy other
than their own. The issue of so-called
independence has become the corner-
stone of the struggle of the Social De-
mocrats and the parties of the Center
against the Communists.

All parties, however, are committed
to the national unity of the German
Reich. A conscious effort is being made
to rehabilitate the word nationalism, to
restore to it its original and historic
meaning, and to disengage it from its
unhappy associations. German political
leadership is convinced of the potency
of the national thought in German life
and is endeavoring to harness its force
at the very beginning in order to direct
it into constructive channels and identify
it with democracy and social progress.
It is particularly anxious to prevent
nationalism from becoming the rallying
point of all anti-democratic and reac-
tionary forces in the future and for this
and other reasons, condemns all separa-
tist, particularist, or federalist move-
ments in Germany.

--- Page 21 ---
(Press Comments

Prominent Anti-Nazi Proposes a

GERMAN STATE FEDERATION

“Who will be the leading men of Ger-
many, if any, in the next five years?”
commences a story by Edward P. Morgan
in the Chicago Daily News.

As one possible
candidate the writer
puts forward “the
tall, strange, strik-
ing figure of Dr. Hans
Bernd Gisevius, who
would have been one of the ministers of
the new cabinet if the July 20th attempt
to assassinate Hitler had worked. Gisevius
is six feet four, forty-one years old and
human. He was among the inner circle
of conspirators in the bomb plot and
survived with his blond hair turned gray
and a packet of experiences that now is
keeping him busy writing books.

“Gisevius, himself, has not figured out
what should be the solution of the Ger-
man problem except that he believes Ger-
many might best be handled as a federa-
tion of states. He is opposed to the re-
establishment of a central German gov-
ernment, because he thinks that the Ger-
mans are not yet ready to bear the re-
sponsibility it involves without becoming
aggressive again.

“Gisevius is somewhat vague about his
own ambitions, but his knowledge of Ger-
mans is vast. There is an alarming dearth
of administrative talent in Germany to-
day. Gisevius, whose anti-Hitler schem-
ing nearly cost him his life, looks like
the kind of man who could be used to
fill the gap.

18

7a 2.8935;

1 Tye New Bork Gs Gimes &!

“He once worked for the Gestapo, but
was fired after three months and devot-
ed most of his efforts from early in the
Nazi regime to intriguing against Hitler
and his henchmen.”

“ACHT UND ACHT”

Hints of a new nazi secret society
known as the “8 and 8” have recently
come to their attention, say Allied in-
telligence ‘officers in Niirnberg according
to a New York Herald Tribune dispatch.
The officers had no evidence of - its
existence, however, “and were inclined to
laugh off the report. The name is sup-
posedly derived from the 8th letter of
the alphabet, and the two eights stand
for ‘Heil Hitler’. Members are said to
greet one another on the strect with
‘acht und acht.’”

BRITISH OCCUPATION

Major General Sir Brian Robertson,
Field Marshal Montgomery’s deputy in
charge of the British Zone, speaking at
a recent press conference, is crecited by
the New York PM as saying “that he and
Montgomery felt very strongly that all
their efforts would prove to have been
wasted ‘unless we solve the problem of
German youth.’ The British are convinced
that they are going to have to keep a
watchful eye upon German education, for
many years. We are already turning the
schools back to the Germans.” General
Robertson further stated that 11,000 teach-
ers have so far lost their jobs in the
British zone, not all of whom were nazis.

--- Page 22 ---
“There were Germans with bad ideas in
their heads long before Hitler came
along,” said the General. In conclusion,
he touched on the US policy of “giving
the German people democratic privileges
with the hope that they will learn how
to use them properly.”

INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE

Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt announced re-
cently that she would sponsor within
UNO a move for compulsory teaching
of one internationally understood lan-
guage in the schools of the world. Ad-
dressing more than 400 soldiers in a
London theater, Mrs. Roosevelt cited the
many tongues spoken in the General As-
sembly and said “the language barrier is
a very severe one — to international
peace.”

GERMAN INDUSTRIAL REVIAL

The New,York Times carries a news
piece concerning U. S. plans “to supply
Japan and the.American occupation zone
in Germany with the raw materials to
permit the revived operation of certain
key civilian industries. “Through arrange-
ments made with the Commodity
Credit Corporation by the War Depart-
ment, 50,000 bales of American cotton
will be shipped to the American zone
of Germany. The new policy, which will
also apply to the American occupation
zones in Austria’ and Korea, was ini-
tiated by the State Department’s Division
of Economic Affairs. The suggestion was
passed on to the War Department which
was made responsible for procuring and
initially financing such supplies for Ger-
many as the U. S. would assume re-
sponsibility for in carrying out the
objectives in the Berlin declaration.”

UNO EYES U. S.

Great curiousity, says the New York
Times is evidenced by UNO General As-
semly delegates “about strikes in the
United States and the demands of the

19

American soldier to go home. Specifi-
eally, they are asking how much the
world can count on the power of the
U.S. if its Army and Navy are going
to melt away ...and on the assurance
of the executive branch of the U. S.
Government when neither Congress,
management nor labor seems very
anxious to carry out the Administration’s
program. “Most of the questions are
being asked by those who are relying
on the U.S. to establish world security
with its moral and physical strength...
and deeply disturbed by what appears
from London to be a, “serious division
within the American republic.”

INTERNATIONALIZATION APPEAL

For the sake of French security and
the peace of Europe, members of the
French National Assembly with pre-war
premier Edward Herriot notably in the
forefront, addressed a plea to the U.S.
Great Britain and Russia “to sanction
the internationalization of the Ruhr and
Saar areas, reports the New York
Herald Tribune. Speakers .. . in a debate
on foreign affairs emphasized that the
main preoccupation of the French is the
status of western Germany. Herriot
reduced the French position to ... coal.”

FRATERNIZATION DELUXE

Critical attention is called in a New
York Post story written by Edward P.
Morgan to the arrangement whereby
military personnel and accredited civil-
ians are permitted to entertain German
girls in their quarters inside the USFET
Headquarters compound. The writer
terms this practice “fraternization
deluxe” which “technically is open to
both officers and enlisted men.” He in-
clines to the belief, however, that, since
“there is more privacy in an apartment,

_ say, than in a GI barracks this form

of fraternizing, in actual fact, operates
in favor of the officers.”

--- Page 23 ---
USA BEING WATCHED

Taking up the matter of the recent rise
in LG.Farben stock on the Hamburg
Stock Exchange, Gabriel Heatter of the
Mutual Broadcasting System expresses
the view that “Maybe a good
many people in Germany are
watching our industrial battle
here at home and believe we
have decided to liquidate each
other (rather than I. G. Farben)
and that we'll be too busy doing that
to worry about Germany’s military come-
back.”

OCCUPATION DEMOBILIZATION

From Elmer Davis, speaking on the
American Broadcasting Company net-
work, comes the opinion that “Two
things about the US are being carefully
noted abroad: the soldiers’ demonstra-
tions demanding an immediate return
home, and the multiplying evidence that
most of us at home are more concerned
in fighting each other than in trying to
maintain the power and standing of the
nation.” The clamor may, at least, prove
salutary, Mr. Davis asserts, in dispelling
any notion abroad of American imperial-
istic designs. He believes, however, “our
influence in international affairs is going
to be gravely limited if we are unable to
maintain enough of an Army abroad or
to maintain it long enough to do our part
in the occupation of enemy countries.”

DISPERSED ARMY UNSOUND

John W. Vandercook of the National
Broadcasting Company puts forth the
argument that “No nation or empire, how-
ever powerful, has long succeeded in pre-
serving a great land army when its geo-
graphical or political position is such as
to require the stationing of much of that
army in areas outside the homeland. The
rulers who tried it discovered to their
undoing that a large military force, if an
attempt is made to scatter it too widely,
becomes a source not of national strength
but of national weakness.”

20

ANOTHER DEMOB ATTITUDE

Morgan Beatty of the National Broad-
casting Company remarks that “Disarma-
ment is an objective that has defied the
best talents of men for thousands of
years. No nation is willing, except
America it seems, to demobilize all of
its military force, and even we seem
to be doing it in fact without approving
the idea in principle.”

SOLDIERS NOT TOLD

Inthe opinion of RaymondGram Swing,
speaking of the American Broadcasting
Company network, the War Department
deserves praise for its wonderful job of
training soldiers to fight but should
be taken to task for not training them tc
think. It is his contention that “they were
not told clearly and comprehensively
what the war was about . . . what victory
would mean in terms of responsibility.
It’s not their fault ... (but) of the men
who created and trained the Army. It
may prove to have been one of the
costliest and most tragic faults of the
war which calls for more inquiry and
cogitation than what happened or didn’t
happen at Pearl Harbor.”

WD STAND DEFENDED

Siding with Acting Secretary of
War Royall in his criticism of the Ameri-
ean public who agree with the general
principles of occupation and demilitariza-
tion of enemy na-
tions while at the
same time asking
for demobilization, a
Springfield 4\Union
editorial notes that:
“The War Department stand is defensible.
It has a job to do — an important one —
in connection with the problems of occu-
pation. Troops are essential to the ac-
complishment of its mission. If the Army
falls down onthe job, it will be criticized.
Therefore, the War Department seeks
to hold as many men in uniform as it
feels are required to do its job. The pub-

--- Page 24 ---
lie should give fair consideration to the
War Department’s point of view.”

WE HAVE OBLIGATIONS

The Houston Chronicle, in an editorial,
cautions “every citizen and every mem-
ber of Congress to remember that the
United States has assumed obligations
under the terms of surrender in both Ger-
many and Japan that call for the use of
large and permanent forces. Generals
MacArthur and McNarney cannot be ex-
pected to accomplish their assignments
without the aid of adequate troops. Con-
gress has the right to determine what the
size of the various establishments shall
be, but once it has done that, it should
not attempt to dictate the decisions of
the military commanders with respect to
the men in service as long as those
leaders operate within the framework of
authority that Congress and the Consti-
tution have given them. As a dominant
world power, if not the dominant power,
we must support our military force, not
seek to destroy it.”

‘SEND IDLE MEN HOME

In an editorial discussion of General
Eisenhower’s order to send home unneed-
ed men regardless of points, the
Columbia State advances the opinion
that this action will save a lot of
headaches, since, once a man becomes
idle on a job, it is hard for him to see
why be should stay around. In the
soldier’s own mind, “he has done his
duty. Why not let him come home? And
when that mental state obtains, unrest
follows.”

Gl's DON’T UNDERSTAND

Unrest in the armed forces has been
both evident and, perhaps, inescapable
ever since the end of the war, says a
Norfolk Ledger - Dispatch editorial. This
unrest may be attributed to many minor
causes, but, claims the editorial, the

21

major reason is simply a “lack of under-
standing by the men of the urgent neces-
sity to make victory secure if the war
sacrifices are to be of any value. The
inordinate pressure on the home front for
breakneck demobilization of the military
organization will, unless it is reduced,
jeopardize the objective for which we

fought.”

LA GUARDIA DEFENDS ARMY

Note is taken in a New York Herald
Tribune editorial of an assertion by
F, H. LaGuardia] that blame for the
tangled demobilization program rests
less on Army officials and more on
civilians — in the War Department and
Congress. The editorial agrees that
“Army brass hats have certainly served
as a lightning rod for more Army dis-
content than is its just portion” but it
also insists that by arbitrarily transfer-
ring the blame to civilian “felt hats there
is danger in setting up a new symbol
of ineptitude. To sneer at the wearers
of felt hats, or brass, takes in a little
too much territory and opens the way to
specious generalizations. After all, it is
not the hat that matters, but the head
that’s under it.”

JEWISH IMMIGRATION

Prospects now appear bright, a
Washington Post editorial believes, for
settling a much-discussed side of the
Jewish immigration problem in light of
the testimony of Robert Nation before
the Anglo-American Committee of Inquiry
on Palestine. It was estimated by Mr.
Nathan that “Palestine can advantageously
absorb 615,000 to 1,125,000 displaced
Jews within the next ten years. President
Tuman reiterated his belief that 100,000
Jews ought to be admitted to Palestine
at once. Every consideration of justice
and humanity should impel. the British
to accede to the President’s request that
this number be admitted.”

Coritinued on page 23

--- Page 25 ---
Continued from page 11

2. Assignment of counsel: The
nazis curtailed the right of the ac-
cused to have counsel assigned to him
by the court when he did not have counsel
of his own choice. As nazi laws stood
at the time of occupation, the accused
first, that they will speak only on sub-
jects i mwhich they are well qualified;
qualified; second, that since they will be
second, that since they will be are well
might be sentenced to a long term of
penal servitude without having the assist-
ance of counsel, and it was often left vir-
tually to the prosecutor’s discretion whe-
ther defense counsel should be obtained at
all. Subject to some amendments necessary
to adjust the text to present condi-
tions the new code restores the law as it
existed prior to 1933. This requires the
court to assign defense counsel if the ac-
cused fails to select counsel and if the
assignment is necessary on account of the
gravity or difficulty of the case, and the
accused is unable to defend himself, Coun-
sel must also be assigned if the case is
punishable by penal servitude, or if coun-
sel is requested by the prosecutor or
the accused, and in certain other cases.

3. Indictment: Nazi law made it
unnecessary to state the results of the
preliminary proceedings if this was “not
required for the preparation of the trial,”
thus making futile the accused’s right
to have an indictment served upon him to
present objections against hearing of the
case, and to apply for obtaining evidence
in-his favor. The new code reverts to the
former law which required that the in-
dictment contain a legal definition of the
charge, a description of the evidence to
be adduced by the public. prosecutor, and
an-account of the results of the preliminary
proceedings. : ;

. 4. Witnesses, evidence: - Until
1942 the accused could enforce the
attendance at the trial of witnesses
whom the public prosecutor or judge
had refused to call. This right, known

as the right of immediate summons. (un:
mittelbare Ladung), has now been restor-
ed. The sweeping discretion of the court
to reject evidence it did not regard as
necessary for the ascertainment of the
truth has now been limited by recognized
standards. The right of cross-examination,
abolished by the nazis even though in but
limited use before 1933, has been re-
stored. : :

5. Appeal: As the nazi law fi-

nally stood at the time of occu-
pation, no appeal by the accused
from a conviction was possible ex-

cept by special permission of the trial
court. Only the prosecutor could as of
right take the case to a higher court
regardless of such permission: That is,
by resorting to the right of “extra-
ordinary objection” which removed the
case to the Reichsgericht (Supreme court)
for a new trial, or by the so-called plaint
of nullity. It seems safe to assume that
the public prosecutor rarely if ever exer-
cised this right in favor of the accused.
Even when’ a case was taken to a
higher court by the means still per-
mitted and the. conviction was sus-
tained, a more severe penalty could be
imposed than by the lower court. Thus,
the accused often was taking a. serious
risk-by applying for: an appeal. —
Amore proper balance between prosecu-
tion and defense has now been created. The
new code permits an appeal by the
accused as of right from the Amtsge-
richt to the Landgericht on questions of
fact and law. It grants, in effect, the
right to a new trial before a. higher
court under the German proceedure gov-
erning such appeals. It further authorizes
the Ministers of Justice to provide by
general order for a direct appeal, on
questions of :law only, to the highest
court in the. new judicial structure, the
Oberlandesgericht. If a case is tried in
the first instance before the Landgericht,
an appeal on questions of law only now
lies to the Oberlandesgericht. Finally, the

--- Page 26 ---
accused may no longer be prejudiced by
an appeal taken by himself or by the
prosecutor in his behalf.

PRINCIPLES OF JUSTICE
The fundamental principles of justice
laid down at the beginning of the occu-
pation and since in Zonal or Control

Council legislation may be summarized

as follows:. :

1. All persons shall be equal before the
law. ‘

2. No person shall be deprived of life,
liberty, or property without due pro-
cess of law.

8. No person shall be detained unless
charged with a specific offense, nor
shall any person be punished without
lawful trial and conviction.

4. No charge shall be preferred, no
sentence imposed, and no punishment
inflicted for an act, unless the act is
expressly made punishable by law in
force at the time of its commission.
Punishment according to the principle
of analogy introduced by the nazi
regime is prohibited.

5. No cruel or inhuman punishment may
be inflicted, thus outlawing the punish-
ment of castration. The death penalty
is abolished, except for acts punish-
able by death under law in force prior
to 30 January 1933 or promulgated by
or with the consent of Military Gov-
ernment. Sentences imposed under the

Hitler regime on political, racial or
religious grounds shall be quashed, and
all punishments imposed prior to occu-
pation and of a character prohibited
by these principles and not yet carried
out shall be modified to conform
thereto or annulled. No sentence of
death shall be carried out without the
consent of Military Government.

6. In any criminal prosecution, the ac-
cused shall have the rights recognized
by democratic law: To be informed
of the nature and cause of the accu-
sation, a speedy and public trial, the
right to have witnesses in his favor,
and assistance of counsel in his de-
fense.

The new code will have to be inter-
preted, and any doubt or ambiguity resolv-
ed, in the light of these basic principles.
It does not purport to be a defi-
nitive reform. It is rather a_ ten-
tative review of the law governing the
constitution and jurisdiction of the
criminal courts and criminal procedure
to furnish a working basis for
mediate resumption of normal activities
by these courts. More could doubtless
be done to modernize and further lib-
eralize the code so that it may event-
ually become a model for legislation of
its kind. It is, however, the hopeful be-
ginning of a new era in the administration
of criminal justice in Germany.

im-

Continued from page 21
COMMENDABLE ACTION

The Wilmington Journal in an editorial
commends ‘General Eisenhower for
ordering the return of overseas troops
who are not needed and _ believes
the action will put an end to any further
disturbances. Also .commended in the
editorial was the “decision to take no
disciplinary action against the men who
have participated in the recent disturb-
ances... and the announcement that
the whole demobilization program is to
be the subject of new and probable
revision.”

23

IMPLEMENT OF DIPLOMACY

It might as well be recognized by the
American people, declares a Springfield
Union editorial that a very natural
alliance exists between armed might
and diplomatic power. The editorial
further points out that: “We are in a
position where our armed forces imple-
ment our foreign policy. The war is not
. + peace has not been concluded.
Conditions in Europe and Asia are still
critical and loaded with potential danger.
Any person who reads even the headlines
realize this. In such circumstances, the
demobilization program ... is an essent-
ially sound one.”

over .

--- Page 27 ---
UNIT LOCATION

Station List

Military Government Elements

OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

Office of

Mil Govt for

Germany (U.S.) Berlin

Office of

Mil Govt (U.S. Zone) Frankfurt

Office ot Mil Govt
for Wirttemberg-
Baden Stuttgart

Hq 1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Stuttgart

LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

ist Mil Govt Bn (Sep)

(APO 758)

Hq & Sv Co 1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Stuttgart

Mobile Maint Plat., Hq & Sv Co
1st Mil Govt Bn (Si

p) Zuffenhausen

Hq ist Mil Govt Med Gp Stuttgart

Wirttemberg

Stuttgart
Stuttgart
Ulm

Aalen
Boblingen
Crailsheim
Esslingen
Gmiind
Géppingen
Schwabisch Hall
Heidenheim
Heilbronn
Ludwigsburg
Waiblingen
H-50 Backnang
H-52 Kinzelsau
H-53 Leonberg
H-54 Bad Mergentheim
H-55 Nirtingen
H-56 Ohringen
H-58 Vaihingen

WRN

SRBANSERSNRSRo

OOQONEOOOOONAE .
nN

&
S

Landesbezirk North Baden
Co E Durlach
E-7 Karlsruhe

F-16 Mannheim

G-43 Heidelberg

G-46 Pforzheim

G-47 Karlsruhe

H-87 Bruchsal

H-89 Buchen

H-90 Mosbach

H-91 Tauberbischofsheim
H-92 Sinsheim

Warttemberg
SK Stuttgart
SK-LK Ulm
LK Aalen

LK Boblingen
LK Crailsheim
LK Esslingen
LK Gmind

LK Géppingen
LK Hall

LK Heidenheim
LK Heilbronn
LK Ludwigsburg
LK Waiblingen
LK Backnang
LK Kanzelsau
LK Leonberg
LK Mergentheim
LK Niartingen
LK Ohringen
LK Vaihingen

Landesbezirk
North Baden
SK-LK Mannheim
SK-LK Heidelberg
SK-LK Pforzheim
SK-LK Karlsruhe
LK Bruchsal

LK Buchen

LK Mosbach

LK Tauberbischofsheim
LK Sinsheim

24

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay

Maj Gen C L Adcock

Col W W Dawson

Col W W Dawson
Lt Wm E Snodgrass

1st Lt E Thompson

Col W W Dawson

Maj R H Stimson

Maj J Owen

Maj M_ Hoover

Capt W A Becker

Maj T Taylor

Lt Col J I Taylor

Capt J N Krajnak

Maj J A Holbrook

Capt H A Wyatt

Maj B V Bloom

Lt Col H M Montgomery
Capt H K Manson
Maj H W Freeman
Capt V J Manno
W _L Strauss
RS Deetz

R Forrest

S A Warren
t Ute M Korson
pt J G Cox

Capt
Ca apt
Capt
Maj
1s1
Ca

cal t RT Lynch

Col C Lisle
ij L L Lewis
Goi I L Harlow
th Semaschko

--- Page 28 ---
OFFICE OF

UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

LAND GREATER HESSE

Office of Mil Govt
for Land Greater Hesse
Wiesbaden

2d Mil Govt Bn (Sep)
(APO 758)

Hq 2d Mil Gvt Bn (Sep) Wiesbaden

Hq Co 2d Mil Gvt Bn & p) Wiesbaden
Sv Co 2d Mil Gvt Bn (Sep) Oberursel

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

E-5 Wiesbaden
E-6 Frankfurt
F-15 Wiesbaden

G-41 Wetzlar
H-77 Dillenburg

H-78 Gelnhausen

H-79 Hanau
H-80 Weilburg

H-81 Hofheim
H-83 Ridesheim

H-86 Bad Homburg

Regierungsbezirk Kassel

CoC Kirchhain
E-4 Kassel
F-14 Kassel

G-38 Fritzlar

G-39 Marburg
G-40 Fulda
G-48 Korbach
H-65 Eschwege

H-67 Hersfeld
H-68 Hofgeismar
ML-1 (Sp) Kassel

Regierungsbezirk Hessen

E-3 Darmstadt
F-12 Darmstadt

F-13 Offenbach
G-31 Bensheim
G-32 Biidingen
G-33 Dieburg
G-34 Friedberg
G-35 Giessen
H-62 Lauterbach
DP-20 Darmstadt

RB Wiesbaden
SK Frankfurt
SK Wiesbaden
LK Wetzlar

LK Dillkreis &
LK Biedenkopf
LK Gelnhausen &
LK Schlichtern
SK-LK Hanau
LK Limburg &
LK Oberlahn
LK Maintaunus
LK Rheingau &
LK Untertaunus
LK Usingen &
LK Obertaunus

RB Kassel

RB Kassel

SK-LK Kassel &

LK Melsungen

LK Fritzlar-Homberg &

LK Ziegenhain

SK-LK Marburg

SK-LK Fulda & LK Hinfeld
LK Waldeck & LK Frankenberg
LK Eschwege &

LK Witzenhausen

LK Hersfeld &

LK Rotenburg

LK Hofgeismar &

Lk Wolfhagen

Liaison

RB Hessen

SK-LK Darmstadt &

LK Gross Gerau

SK-LK Offenbach

LK Bergstrasse & LK Erbach
LK Bidingen

LK Dieburg

LK Friedberg

SK-LK Giessen

LK Lauterbach & LK Alsfeld

25

Col J R Newman

Col J R Newman
Capt F A Decker
Capt B Sturdevan

Col J R Newman

Lt Col F E Sheeman
Lt Col F A Sansome
Maj M Baymen

Maj D B Bernstein

Maj M E Chotas
Maj T Turner Jr

Capt E F Duffy
Capt J C Nelson

Maj J G Gavin
Capt O Kuntzleman

1st Lt J F Owen
Lt Col A Skarry

Lt Col R Bard
Capt G De Nubla
Maj L S Williams
Maj C F Russe

Maj E J Dikeman
Capt W B Getmann
Maj T T Turnbull

Capt S C Moore Jr

1st Lt M Rogin

Lt Col R W Copeland
Lt Col L G Kelly
Capt E J Emerick
Maj A C Leggatt

1st Lt TA Norris

Capt J M Nutt Jr
Maj R J Willard
Maj D M Easterday
Capt H Nickelsberg
1st Lt A J Peyser

--- Page 29 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY. GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Office of
Mil Govt for
Bavaria Munich

Hq 3d Mil Govt Minchen
Hq Co Mianchen

Sv Co Minchen

R & T Co Minchen

3d MG Med Det Munich
3d MG Med Sec Miinchen

Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken

Co A Ochsenfurt
E-202 Wirzburg
F-210 = Wirzburg
G-220 — Aschaffenburg
G-221 Schweinfurt
H-250 Bad Kissingen
H-251 _—— Kitzingen
1-330 Alzenau

1-331 Briickenau
1-332. Ebern

1-333 Gemiinden
1-334 Gerolzhofen
1-335 Hammelburg
1-336 Hassfurt -
1-337 Hofheim
1-338 Karlstadt
1-339 Kénigshofen
1-340 = Lohr

1-341 Marktheidenfeld
1-342 Mellrichstadt
1-343 Miltenberg
1-344 Neustadt Saale
1-345 Obernburg
1-346 Ochsenfurt

LAND BAVARIA

3d Mil Govt Regt
(APO 403)

RB Mainfranken
SK-LK Warzburg
SK-LK Aschaffenburg
SK-LK Schweinfurt
LK Kissingen

LK Kitzingen

LK Alzenau

LK Brickenau

LK Ebern

LK Geminden

LK Gerolzhofen
LK Hammelsburg
LK Hassfurt

LK Hofheim

LK Karlstadt

LK Kénigshofen
LK Lehr :
LK Marktheidenfeld
LK Mellrichstadt
LK Miltenberg

LK Neustadt a. d. Saale
LK Obernburg

LK Ochsenfurt

Regierungsbezirk Ober & Mittelfranken

Co C Ansbach
E-203 Ansbach
F-211 Nirnberg
G-228 Ansbach
G-229 Farth

H-261 Dinkelsbahl
H-262 _ Eichstadt
H-263 Feuchtwangen
H-264 Gunzenhausen
H-265 Hersbruck
H-266 —Hilpoltstein
H-267 Weissenburg
H-268 — Rothenburg
H-269 Schwabach
H-270 Scheinfeld
H-271 Windsheim
H-272 Lauf

H-273 Neustadt a. d. Aisch
Co B Bamberg
G-222 Bamber;
G-223 Bayreu

RB Ober and Mittelfranken
SK-LK Nirnberg
SK-LK Ansbach

SK-LK Firth

LK Dinkelsbihl

LK Eichstadt

LK Feuchtwangen

LK Gunzenhausen

LK Hersbruck

LK Hilpoltstein

LK Weissenburg

LK Rothenburg

LK Schwabach

LK Scheinfeld

LK Uffenheim

LK Lauf

LK Neustadt a:-d. Aisch.

* SK-LK ‘Bamber,

SK-LK Bayreut

26

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C C Morgan
Capt J W: Preston.
Maj A'S Keller
Ond Lt W_ T Lyons
Lt Col E R Jenney
Maj M J Kanner

ist Lt R E Handwerk
Lt Col M E Henderson
Lt Col J B Bradford
Maj C M Emerick

Lt Col J B Thomson
Capt M A Potter

Capt L A Mercadante
Capt K L Ellis

Maj H P Clark Jr
Capt R W Jones
Capt J J Widmann
Capt J M Simon
Maj E G Emery
Capt J R Ellis Jr
Capt E F Smith
Capt W E Brayden
Capt L F Girolani
Capt Elmer E ‘Kelly
Maj M B Voorhees
Lt L K Owens
Capt D J Huffman
Capt E F Warnke
Maj B H Logan
Capt J R Crain

Capt G N Hultzen
Col E M Haight

Lt Col C Klise

Lt Col W R Whitaker Jr
Maj J D Cofer

Lt Col J W Hall

Maj W T Stoats

1st Lt L D Smith
Maj.H W Zurn. .
Maj H R Glaser

Maj H T Lund

Capt J J Carr

Maj R C Anderson
Maj R E Stringer
Maj H C Kauffmann -
Maj E I Paul

Maj E N Humphrey. |
Maj F K Hinchey.”
2nd Lt B Lyons

Maj H L Woodall

Lt Col C J Reilly-

--- Page 30 ---
OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT » COMMANDING OFFICER
G-224 — Erlangen LK Erlangen Lt Col F Robie
G-225 Coburg SK-LK Coburg Maj S Klein
G-226 Kronach LK Kronach Capt J F-Begley
G-227 Hof © SK-LK Hof Maj B P White
G-247 __Lichtenfels LK Lichtenfels Lt Col J R Case
H-252'  Ebermannstadt LK Ebermannstadt - - Capt J J Bianchi
H-253 Hochstadt LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch Maj R G Hanford
H-254 = Kulmbach LK Kulmbach Lt Col P B Lamson
H-255 —— Pegnitz LK Pegnitz Maj M F Skinner
H-256 Munchberg LK Munchberg Maj A C Abbott
H-258 Rehau LK Rehau Maj R H Dodds
H-259 = Wunseidel LK Wunseidel May D H Alexander
H-260 Forcheim LK Forcheim Maj R J Nelson
1-347 Naila LK Naila 1st Lt W P Morris
1-348 Stadtsteinach LK Stadtsteinach 1st Lt H F Casademont

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern & Oberpfalz

Co H
E-204
F-212
G-230

G-244
H-247
H-275
H-276
H-277
H-278
H-279
1-349
1-350
1-351
1-352
1-353
1-354
1-355
1-356
1-357
1-358
G-243
G-245
G-246
H-301
H-302
H-303
H-304
H-305
H-306
H-307
H-308
H-309
H-310
1-375
1-377
1-378
1-379
1-380
1-381
1-382
1-383
1-385

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern
Munich
Munich
Munich

Co F
E-205
F-213

| G-236

Regensburg
Regensburg
Regensburg
Weiden

Amberg

Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunburg
Eschenbach
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldminchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Passau
Landshut
Straubing
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsiburg
Freyung
Bogen,
Dingolfin
Gricsbach”
Kétating
Mainburg
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
Wegscheid

Partenkirchen

RB Niederbayern & Oberpfalz
SK-LK Regensburg

SK Weiden &

LK Neustadt a. d. Wald
SK-LK Amberg

LK Cham

LK Burglengenfeld

LK Parsberg

LK Tirschenreuth

LK Neunburg vorm Wald
LK Eschenbach i. d. Opf,
LK Kemnath

LK Nabburg

LK Oberviechtach

LK Riedenberg

LK Vohenstrauss

LK Roding

LK Waldminchen

LK Beilngries

LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.

LK Sulzbach-Rodenburg
SK-LK Passau

SK-LK Landshut
SK-LK Straubing
LK Deggendorf
LK Eggenfelden
LK Grafenau
LK Kelheim

LK Landau a. d. Isar
LK Pfarrkirchen
LK Regen

LK Vilshofen
LK Vilsiburg
LK Wolfstein
LK Bogen

LK Dingolfing
LK Griesbach
LK Kétzting

LK Mainburg
LK Mallersdorf
LK Rottenburg
LK Viechtach

LK Wegscheid

RB Oberbayern

SK-LK Munich

LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen

27

1st Lt W S Mather
Lt Col G D Hastings
Maj C G Doyle

Maj J C Robertson Jr
Maj J H Mattox
Capt L S Gagliardi
Capt E Fichter

Capt R E Boyd

Maj F P Murray
Capt S P Himic
Capt W R Baylies
1st Lt T E McGee
Capt F N Shanbacker
Capt R A Berry
Capt C V Hansen
Capt S Lesneski

Capt C R Bucheit
Capt R D Canover
1st Lt L_C Johnstone
Capt W N Blanton
Capt A J Dann

Maj W Wickersham
Maj H J Mrachek
Maj H T Olsen

1st Lt O A Childs
Maj E W Manning
Capt S Perlman

Capt C T Hutson
Capt G C McCall
Capt W D Baird
Capt A R Sphar
Capt W J Fitzpatrick

Capt F Harris

Capt R W Douglass
Capt A G Albert
Capt E M Martocci
Capt A S Gallant
Capt J W Fleishman

Capt J W Leidy
Capt C_N Ahlstrom
1st Lt E A Russo
Capt A L Corcelius
Capt H Walter

--- Page 31 ---
UNIT -- LOCATION

OFFICE OF

pe LETT AR YECOV ERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR

.. -. GOMMANDING OFFICER

G-237 Ingolstadt
G-238 Munich
H-286 Farstenfeldbruck
H-287 — Landsberg
H-288 Pfaffenhofen
H-289 — Starnberg
H-290 Weilheim
H-291 = Wolfratshausen
1-362 Aichach
1-364 Schrobenhausen
1-367 Dachau

1-368 Schéngau
Co E Wasserburg
G-231 Freising
G-232 Miesbach
G-233 Traunstein
G-234 = Altdtting
G-235 Rosenheim
H-280  Erding
H-281 Laufen
H-282 Mahldorf
H-283 = Wasserburg
H-284 = Bad_ Télz
H-285 Aibling
H-311 Berchtesgaden

1-361 Ebersberg

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Co G Ziemetshausen
E-206 Augsburg
F-214 Augsburg
G-239 Dillingen
G-240  Weissenborn
G-241 Sonthofen
G-242 Kempten
H-292 Donauwérth
H-293 Ginzberg
H-294 Markt Oberdorf
H-295 Memmingen
H-296 Mindelheim
H-297 Neuberg
H-298 Nérdlingen
H-299 Fassen

H-300 Krumbach
1-369 Illertissen
1-370 Kaufbeuren
1-372 Wertingen
1-373 Friedberg
1-374 Schwabminchen

Office of
Mil Govt
U.S. Sector
lin) Berlin

Office of Mil Govt
(Bremen Port Command) Bremen

Office of Mil Govt

for Bremen Bremen.
Office of Mil Govt
for Wesermiinde Wesermiinde

SK-LK Ingolstadt
LK Munich

LK Firstenfeldbriick
LK Landsberg

LK Pfaffenhofen
LK Starnberg

LK Weilheim

LK Wolfratshausen
LK Aichach

LK Schrobenhausen
LK Dachau

LK Schéngau

LK Freising

LK Miesbach

LK Traunstein
LK Altétting
SK-LK Rosenheim
LK Erding

LK Laufen

LK Mihldorf

LK Wasserburg
LK Taélz

LK Aibling

LK Berchtesgaden
LK Ebersberg

Ee reped

SK- Augsbur,
LK Dillin, a
LK Neu Ulm

LK Sonthofen
SK-LK Kempten
LK Donauwérth
LK Ginzberg

LK Markt Oberdorf
LK Memmingen
LK Mindelheim

LK Neuberg a. d. Donau
LK Nordlingen

LK Fissen

LK Krumbach

LK Illertissen

LK Kaufbeuren

LK Wertingen

LK Friedberg

LK Schwabmiinchen

U.S. SECTOR, BERLIN DISTRICT

U.S. Sector, Berlin District
(APO 755)

BREMEN PORT COMAND

(APO 751)

Bremen Port Command
SK Bremen

SK Wesermiinde

28

Maj L H Norins
Maj M T Mawrence
Capt J J McBride
Capt M L Matt
Capt J E Thayer
Maj M 'W Nitz
Capt R J ‘O'Dowd
Maj P L Steers
Capt L R Da:

1st Lt R C Wiggins
Capt V A Burke
Maj C A Rein
Capt D E Brown
Maj E Boney

Lt Col J Kelly

Maj C J Bischoff
Maj R L Montague
Capt R H Necel
Maj _C C Brown
1st Lt D L Price
Capt W M Forys
1st Lt A L Klinger
Capt V Thom

Maj E J Newmeyer
Capt W_ Caruso

1st Lt C C Smith Jr

Capt O Meirhe:

Lt Cot cM ‘Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Maj Darragh

Capt JM Patimer
Maj J E Rhea
Capt B M Ziegler
Capt L A Proper
Capt M Glossop
Capt B M Green
Maj R F Wagner
Maj E C Bunker
Capt H E Reeves
Capt S H Brown
Capt S D Lubin
Capt C E Witney
Capt F E Kettunen
1st Lt R E Lee
2nd Lt W A Grahm
Capt L Sims

Capt L E Smith Jr

Col F L Howley

Lt Col C H Scott
Lt Col J M Shamel

Lt Col L S Diggs