--- Page 2 ---
No. 21 — 15 DECEMBER 1945

Military Government

Weekly
Information Bulletin

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
WESTERN MILITARY DISTRICT
GREAT HESSE, NORTH WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

23 OCTOBER 1945

MOFGEIS

(<< BRITISH ZONE

oe
BOSOENE ROTENBURG

Soy’ F

— V~
ZiEGEN-

Hain (HERSFELO

RUSSIAN

ZONE

[siser0f sae = nek

enka eH ems LAr é

LEGEND he

RED ——-REGIERUNGSBEZIRKE ANO Z
LANDESBEZIRK BADEN f
BLACK — LANDKREISE AND STADTKREISE “i

TATISTICS SECTION

SOURCE OMG RB! BRANCH jp C GEN STAFF USFET

--- Page 4 ---
No. 21 — 15 DECEMBER 1945

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
CONTENTS

PAGE

Military Government Letters and Instructions Issued This Week 4

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY .
The Price Report .

Schools for Democracy, Part Il, The Universities .

Youth Organizations and Politics .

GENERAL

D. P. Postal Service to United States Opens .
CIC Credentials .

Restitution Claims

Inter-Zonal Circuits .

Vehicular Lights .

Dyeing of Uniforms .

Agreement with French .

Are Farmers Businessmen? .

GERMAN REACTIONS
Germans Look Ahead

Local Elections

PRESS COMMENTS

Occupation Problems in News Spotlight .
Price Report

Popularity Contest .

Marshall Appointment .

Random Comments .
VOICES OF EXPERIENCE .

PERSONNEL DATA
Qualifications for Civilian Jobs .

Promotions

Station List

5
5

. 10
. 23

. 28
. 28
. 28
. 29
. 29
. 29
. 29
. 33
. 33

- 30

. 30
. 32

» 34

. 34
. 35
. 36
. 36
. 36

. 39

. 40

. 40
4

- 43

--- Page 7 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT LETTERS AND
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED DURING THE WEEK

Postal Service Between Displaced Persons in the U. S.
Zone of Germany and the United States .

‘Repeal of Oppressive Law re Kosher Slaughtering .

Counter Intelligence Corps Credentials .

Motor Vehicle Laws and Licensing Regulations — Germany

Transfer of Responsibility for Military Government in the

Bremen Enclave .

3 December 1945 (file
AG 311.1 [General]
GEC-AGO)

4 December 1945 (file
GE-EX 010.6 [M.G.

Germany] )

5 December 1945 (file
AG 200.2 AGP)

5 December 1945 (file
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO)

6 December 1945 (file
AG 461.01 GEC-AGO)

--- Page 8 ---
Hightights of Poticy

the PRICE REPORT

Last fall, the President asked Mr. Byron Price
to come to Germany to study the relationship be-
tween the American forces of occupation and the
German people. Mr. Price, in his Report to Mr.
Truman dated November 9th, made eight specific
suggestions. The President, in forwarding the Report
to the Secretaries of State, War and Navy, re-
quested them to give it carejul consideration, with
a view to taking whatever joint action might be
indicated. The memorandum of Mr. Price to the
President is printed here as a matter of general
interest to all in Military Government.

This report is submitted in response
to your request of August 30th that
I survey “the general subject of rela-
tions between the American forces of
occupation and the German people” so
that you might have the benefit ‘of a
wholly detached view of this highly
important situation.

The statement of conditions are bas-
ed on trustworthy information gathered
from many. sources during ten weeks
of inquiry, mostly inside Germany it-
self. The conclusions and recommenda-
tions are. entirely my own.

Considering all of the difficulties,
which few.people in this country are
in‘ a‘ position to understand, General
Eisenhower and his ‘staff have done
better than a good job of governing
the German population of the Ameri-
can Zone. Mistakes have been made and
some confusions persist, but in gen-
eral relations with the mass of Ger-
mans are on a sound basis. In so large
and complex an operation, no one
should ask for perfect results in so
short a time unless he expects mir-
acles.

Now, at the end of six months, the
entire field of these relationships is
turning a corner. Actual disarmament

and demilitarization of the German
nation are nearing completion, and
purely military problems are being re-
placed by entirely different but equally
difficult problems of civil administra-
tion. Our ranking military leaders feel
that the administration machinery of
the Army is not well adapted to the
tasks of governing a foreign popula-
tion. New decisions thus are required,
and the responsibility of those de-
cisions, involving questions of high na-
tional policy, rests heavily on Washing-
ton.

RE-EXAMINATION NECESSARY

It may possibly be helpful to you, in
meeting the responsibility, if I state
the’ principal problems bluntly as I see
them. The entire basic structure of
Military Government in Germany, in-
cluding the Potsdam Declaration,
should be re-examined in the light of
experience and new conditions. The

United States must decide whether we

mean to finish the job competently,
and provide the tools, the détermina-
tion and the funds requisite to that
purpose, or withdraw. We must decide
whether we are going to permit
starvation, with attendant epidemics
and disorders, in the American Zone,
or ship the food to prevent it.

We must decide whether obstruc-
tions raised by the French Govern-
ment, which have deadlocked the Four
Power Control Council at Berlin, are
to be permitted to defeat the under-
lying purpose of Allied policy. We
have reached the stage where we must
determine much more specifically what
we are going to do about minor hire-

--- Page 9 ---
lings of the nazi party and its satellite
agencies, and how far we are going in
destroying the industrial structure of
Germany.

Not of least importance, it must be
decided how fast and how far the
Government is to go in changing from
military to civilian control in Ger-
many. Really competent civilian adminis-
trative personnel and advice must be
provided from within the present gov-
ernmental establishment at Washing-
ton if any such changeover is to have
a chance of succeeding. The urgency
of these decisions is deepened not only
by the continuing Four Power dead-
lock at Berlin, but by the approach of
winter. The next few months will be
the critical months. They will deter-
mine whether the American Govern-
ment, in its first large scale attempt
at governing a conquered people, is
to succeed or fail or abandon the
effort.

I submit for your consideration the
following suggestions to help maintain
sound relations between Military Gov-
ernment in Germany and the German
people.

HEAVY PRESSURE ADVISED
1. The necessity for breaking the

present deadlock in the Control Coun-.

cil at Berlin is so important that use
of the full force and prestige of Ameri-
can diplomatic power to that end is
fully warranted. Repeated attempts
have been made to set up common
policies so that the German Railways,
the German Postal Service and other
essential facilities could be operated
as integral national systems. All of
these attempts have failed, due almost
entirely to the rigid opposition of the
French.

As a result of the French attitude,
Germany is not being treated as an
economic unit. Instead, what is hap-
pening amounts, to speak plainly, to
the economic dismemberment of Ger-

many. This is a reversal of basic ob-
jectives and, I believe, a certain step
toward future international friction. If
France is really bent on the dismember-
ment of Germany, as her acts indicate,
she should be made to acknowledge
that policy before the world and not
permitted to hide behind the oppo-
site pronouncements of the Potsdam
Declaration. Our own policies should
then be re-examined accordingly.

2. The proposed changeover of Mili-
tary Government from army to civilian
control will be advantageous only if
the very highest type of civilian ad-
ministrators can be assigned to Ger-
many. Second raters not only would
fail, but would involve this Govern-
ment in untold new difficulty.

As individuals and executives, the
army officers now in charge of Mili-
tary Government are a highly capable
group of men. The only point in mak-
ing a change would be to rid Military
Government of the complicated army
forms and procedures, which. were
created for a vastly different purpose
and are not sufficiently pliable to be
adapted to civil affairs. It is. not the
men in charge but “the army system”,
with its necessary devotion to rank,
channelization and precise regimenta-
tion, which does not. fit the needs
of ‘the ‘situation.

TRAINING ADVOCATED

In my opinion, no change to top
‘civilian control should take place earlier
than June 1, 1946, the date originally
recommended by General Eisenhower.
The intervening time is none too long
to permit a sufficient number of civ-
ilian replacements to be assembled and
given the requisite training and ex-
perience on the ground in Germany.

Intensive planning should begin at
once. Steps should be taken to remove
any existing barriers to installation of
a civilian governor or high commis-

‘sioner, whether such barriers exist in

international agreements or in legis-

--- Page 10 ---
lative or budgetary restrictions. It. is
probable that the new civilian officials
will have to be recruited largely from
among experienced specialists already
in the government service in this
country.

HIGH-TYPE PERSONNEL

Those chosen to head departments
in the Military Government should
have rank and pay comparable to
undersecretaries in Washington; and
it should be the definite responsibility
of every cabinet member and agency
head to interest himself in the prob-
lem, to comb the specialized personnel
of his branch of government, and to
see that fully-equipped officials, not
castoffs, are provided. To facilitate the
handling of diplomatic aspects, one
assistant secretary of state might well
be designated to supervise all com-
munications relating to Military Gov-
ernment in the occupied areas abroad.

Substitution of civilian personnel in
Germany should have limits.‘ I sug-
gest that some Military Government
officials, such as those in charge of
public safety and some of those in the
lowest rank, in direct touch with the
German people locally, should remain
in uniform. Selection of the new civ-
ilian chief of Military Government
must be made by the President with
great care if the experiment is to
succeed. The appointment should,
under no circumstances, have partisan
political implications. An ideal choice
would be an army officer of proven
judgment and administrative ability,
with a known military background in
the European Theater during this war,
who would be willing to serve in a
civilian capacity and administer ac-
cording to civilian formulas. Special
efforts should be made also to retain
the services of as many as possible
of the officers trained in Military Gov-
ernment and now serving there. In those
ranks are many highly valuable men.

3. The highest level instructions
issued to Military Government from
Washington are in need of revision
in the light of experience. The present
basic instrument of Military Govern-
ment is a 72-page directive from the
Joint Chiefs of Staff in Washington,
(JCS 1067), together with various an-
nexes and amendments. It was drafted
originally in the Pentagon Building in
the first months of 1945, long before
anyone knew when the victory would
come or what form it would take.
Yet the detailed provisions of this im-
posing document still fall with untold
force upon General Eisenhower’s of-
ficers, now long experienced in the
actual business of dealing with the
Germans. The whole collection of
orders and instructions could profit-
ably be rewritten into a few hundred
words of general principles.

BASIC RATION LOW

4. The food situation in Germany
still merits urgent attention. My under-
standing is that present plans con-
template a basic ration of 1550 calories
and that proposals for an increase have
been rejected in Washington. I know
of no competent medical authority who
would regard a ration of 1550 calories
as satisfactory, or who considers that
present rationing in German is ade-
quate for a people who are expected
to work and who have no heat at home
and no way to reach their places of
employment except by walking.

The medical evidence is clear that
deficiencies of food already are result-
ing in widespread, dangerous loss of
weight and in alarming reaction to
disease. If starvation comes, as now
seems likely, epidemics and rioting
will not be far behind. The approved
medical ration to prevent starvation
is 2000, and there is no likelihood that
such a ration would permit the bomb-
ed-out, freezing, pedestrian Germans
to live anything like as well as the
European average. To provide such a

--- Page 11 ---
ration would require additional food
exports from the United States on
‘credit. A ration adequate to prevent
starvation would not mean being soft
with the German people. It would re-
present protection to our own occu-
pation troops against disease and dis-
order and decency: toward our Allies
of Western Europe, themselves under-
nourished and easily susceptible to
disease.

DENAZIFYING PROGRESS

5. No one who reminds the criminal
record of nazism will quarrel with
the policy of stamping out the nazi
party utterly and removing all its
members from places of influence or
profit in German life. But Germany
will not be rebuilt to peaceful and
decent dimensions in a day. Too much
haste in the inauguration of sweeping
reform has never failed to lead to con-
fusion and error, if not to reaction.

Denazification of private industry
has gone further and faster in the
American Zone than in any other part
of Germany. The railroads, which are
needed to deliver essential supplies,
the communications system and other
essential facilities have been handi-
capped greatly by abrupt removal of
nazis from key positions and installa-
tion of inexperienced substitutes...*
It is desirable that the acts of Mili-
tary Government be presented and
interpreted so far as possible from
the viewpoint of ultimate benefit to
the ordinary German, rather than from
the viewpoint of Military Government
itself.

6. The present practice of “screen-
ing” spot information coming into
Germany from the outside world
should be discontinued. Such censor-
ship only defeats its own purpose,
since the information is currently

*Omission due to garbling of lines in radio trans-
mission.

-available to the German people from

British or other nearby radio stations.
Suppression in the German press or on
the German radio raises the question
how our policy differs from that of
Goebbels. In general, the German press
and radio should have freedom of
opinion also, but the publication of
anti democratic propaganda should not
be permitted.

Our own propaganda needs to be
given an increasingly positive charac-
ter, in contrast to the long continued
attempt to impress the Germans of
their collective guilt, which from now
on will do more harm than good. A
story circulates among the Germans to
the effect that one radio listener, who
followed the Allied broadcasts
throughout the war because they gavehim
hope, has now put away his receiver
because he hears only condemnation
and abuse. We can win converts to
democracy only if we again find a way
of instilling hope, .. hope that Ger-
many again can rise from the dust
and become a respected nation if she
will devote herself to peace and toler-
ance and decent ways of life. It is
most desirable that a better arrange-
ment be worked out to climinate
bottlenecks and assure an adequate
supply of American motion picture
films for the American Zone. More
books in tune with democratic con-
cepts ought to be available to German
booksellers, possibly from stock
prepared by the Provost Marshal
General for use in German PW camps
in this country.

APPROVES CHANGE

I am convinced that better results
would be attained in all of these
matters if the Information Control
Branch, which supervises publications,
broadcasting and theaters, and which
certainly is a highly important arm
of Military Government, were made

--- Page 12 ---
an integral part of the Military Gov-
ernment establishement instead of ope-
rating independently. I am informed
that steps to effect such a change are
now in progress.

POTENTIAL DANGER

7%. Thus far there is no evidence
of an organized underground resist-
ance in the American Zone, acts of
hostility being largely confined to
small-time local depredations. But
caution cannot be relaxed. The former
Hitler youth — young people of their
teens — are potentially the most
dangerous single element of the popu-
lation. It may be hoped that the
current effort to organize these
crooked minded children into non-
military societies and clubs after the
American fashion will help turn them
away from idleness and subversion.

It must be remembered, however,
that many natural ties bind the Hitler
youth to the millions of recently
discharged German soldiers, to crimi-
nal elements among DPs, and to the
increasing company of nazis out of
office. The suffering sure to come with
winter may be expected to bring into
the open whatever threat of real dis-
order and rebellion may now lie
buried beneath the surface. This is the
wrong time to permit General Eisen-
hower’s armed forces in Germany to
be decimated and robbed of military

effectiveness by demobilization.

8. Eyery additional day’s delay in
bringing arrested nazis to justice
weakens the position of Military Gov-
ernment. There is widespread sur-
prise among Germans that even the
highest nazi officials, held at Niirn-
berg under international jurisdiction
as war criminals, are still awaiting
trial. The Niirnberg ‘trials are not, of
course, the responsibility of the Army.
However, an additional 80,000 lesser
members of the nazis party are in
prison at the instance of Military Gov-
ernment. Military authorities do not
feel that these cases can be tried until
dependable precedents have been set
at Niirnberg. Whereever the responsi-
bility lies, the failure to set up ade-
quate tribunals and dispose of pending
charges more promptly does not
improve relations with a German
people who traditionally respect only
firm and swift authority.

OTHER SUGGESTIONS

I have confined this memorandum to
matters -which I felt were so
important that they should be brought
to your personal attention. I submitted
a number of suggestions on. additional
subjects directly to General Eisen-
hower and General Clay in Germany,
and am also putting myself at the
disposal of the responsible officials
of the War Department”.

--- Page 13 ---
SCHOOLS

ror DEMOCRACY

Part Il
The Universities

By Robert S. Berlin

The universities of Germany have,
for more than half a century, played
a major part in shaping and directing
German history. In Germany, asin most
other European countries, the universi-
ties have been traditionally not only the
training ground of the country’s pro-
fessional men, but, to a far more
exclusive degree than in the United
States, of its national leaders and its
higher civil servants as well.

For the most part, German universi-
ties were founded and maintained by
the kings and princes of the various
German states which existed prior to
the unification of Germany in 1871.
Of the universities in the U. S. Zone,
for example, only the University of
Frankfurt, founded in the 20th Cen-
tury, had no royal sponsor. The
internal organization of the medieval
university has been modified in the
course of time, but the basic pattern

has been preserved. The medieval
university distributed the subject
matter and the teachers into four

Fakultaten (faculties): Theology, Me-
dicine, Law, and Philosophy. The
Philosophical faculty was the catch-
all for all those subjects which did
not fit into the first three categories,
and as such, was similar to the liberal
arts college of an American university.
(Actually, the Fakultéten can be
compared to the subordinate colleges
of a university in the United States,

It is to the universities that the
German educational system must
look for its future leaders, for the
directing influence toward the
establishment of new educational
values.

e. g. the Medizinische Fakultat of a
German university would be the same
as the Columbia University College of
Physicans and Surgeons). Modern ex-
pansion of the curriculum resulted in
additional faculties. In Munich, for
example, the traditional. four have
increased to ten with the addition of
faculties of General Science, Veteri-
nary Science, Political Economy,
Dentistry, Forestry, and Pharmacy.

The basis of the older universities
was principally religious, and the
theological faculties usually dominated
the institution. The spiritual struggle
in Germany between the forces of the
Reformation and the Counter-Reforma-
tion reached its peak in the universi-
ties. Temporal princes looked to the
universities for the justification of the
religious stands they adopted, or,
when no university existed founded
one for that purpose. Thus, Prince Phil-
lip of Hessen, a member of the Protest-
ant League of Princes, founded Mar-
burg University as the first university
with a Protestant Theological faculty,
and shortly thereafter, the University of

10

--- Page 14 ---
Heidelberg University: Upper left, the Tower of the Witches, now a war memorial, around which
the university is built. Upper right, the Domus Wilhelmina (1712), the main building of the uni-
versity. Below, the New Building with the Great Hall (Aula) and chief lecture rooms. Built in
1927, it was financed by funds raised in the United States.

i1

--- Page 15 ---
Giessen was founded for the propa-
gation of the “new faith”. In answer,
the Bishop of Wurzburg founded a
university in the city as the university
of the Counter-Reformation.

HISTORY {EFFECTS CHANGES

The “Age of Enlightenment” of the
Eighteenth Century wrought a change
in emphasis, and the medical and
natural science faculties of the
universities developed in response to
the greatly increased interest in the
natural world of man. At the end of
the century, the French Revolution and
the Napoleonic wars swept over Ger-
many, and the universities, particularly
those of southern Germany, reacted to
the new philosophies of liberty and
nationalism. The domination of the
theological faculties was broken, and
the flamboyant, enthusiastic, patriotic
fervor of the Romantic movement
brought the study of the liberal arts,
of poetry, philosophy, literature, and
language to the fore. The ferment
which the romanticists and nationalists
aroused in the university students
could not be stamped out under Met-
ternich repression, and the universities
became a motive force in the revo-
lutions which broke out all over Ger-
many in 1848.

The trend, however, turned inward
after the failure to establish a unified
Germany in 1848, and for the past
100 years, the universities have been
the core of perverted nationalism and
reaction. Under the Empire, student
fraternities developed into exclusive,
feudal, militaristic organizations which
furnished the leadership for the
aggressive imperialism which cul-
minated in World War I. The Weimar
Republic failed completely to root out
the intrenched reaction which
characterized the universities. Bitter,
vengeful, defeated soldier-students re-
turned to the universities after the war.
In 1922, most of the reactionary frater-
nities organized themselves into the

12

Deutsche Studentenschaft. By 1928, the
organization had become almost
completely dominated by nazi student
groups.

The nazis completed the circle by
the forced dissolution of all student
fraternities in 1935. They then
established the Deutsche Studenten-
schaft, an affiliated organization of the
NSDAP, and made membership therein
compulsory for all university students
of German descent. Within the Studen-
tenschaft, as a party nucleus, was the
NS Student’s League (NS Deutscher
Studentenbund). Similarly, the teaching
staff at every university was organized
into a compulsory Dozentenschaft,
with the NS Dozentenbund as its party
core. As a result, until 1943, after the
defeat at Stalingrad, both the student
bodies and teachers of the German
universities acquiesced meekly to all
the nazi restrictive measures, and gave
active support to the agressive national-
ism and racialism which resulted in

World War II.

LIBERALS INEFFECTIVE

It should not be assumed from the
foregoing that after 1848 all elements
of liberalism disappeared from the
universities. On the contrary, much of
the liberal opposition which was
manifested under the Empire was
voiced in the universities, and the
intellectual basis of the Weimar Re-
public also developed in the universi-
ties. Furthermore, the atmosphere varied
from school to school and region to
region. The smaller universities were,
generally, more reactionary than those
which were located in the large cities,
and the universities of southern and
western Germany, such as Heidelberg
and Frankfurt, were far more liberal
than those which were dominated by
Prussian influence. For the most part,
however, the universities reflected the
anti-democratic spirit of the German
aristocratic and upper middle classes,
and shared responsibility for the leader-

--- Page 16 ---
Marburg University: Top, a general view of the University and the city of Marburg. The art
institute, the Jubilaumsbau, is in the foreground. Bottom, a section of the university's Kinder-
klinik, built in 1925-27, and American endowed.

13

--- Page 17 ---
ship which led Germany into agressive
war three times in 70 years.

The Weimar Republic allowed the
seeds of resistance and opposition to
flourish unchecked in the universities,
and thereby assured its own downfall.
Militaty Government, however, aware
of past history and under unequivocal
directive to eradicate comletely all nazi
and militarist doctrines and influences
from German education, has taken firm
and decisive action to recreate
universities which will prepare their
students for leadership in the task of
founding, nourishing, and protecting
democracy in Germany.

Before the war, seven universities
existed in the U. S. Zone; Munich, Hei-
delberg, Frankfurt, Erlangen, Wiirz-
burg, Marburg, and Giessen. At
present, the universities of Heidelberg,
Wiirzburg, Marburg, and Erlangen
have already been opened or are about
to do so. The Universities of Frank-
furt and Munich are currently reor-
ganizing, and can be expected to begin
instruction in the near future. The
University of Giessen, however, was so
severely damaged in air raids that it
probably cannot be repaired for use.

Authority to open a University can
be granted only by the Director of
Military Government U. S. Zone, or
his representative, and certain basic
conditions. must be met before such
approval is given.

RESUMPTION REQUIREMENTS

After investigation and approval, a
University Planning Committee com-
posed of from five to ten politically
acceptable members of its , former
faculty is appointed to formulate
proposals to resume operation of the
University. The University Planning
Committee. must insure that the staffs,
curricula, and student bodies are
completely denazified and demilitari-
zed;.. that. an adequate . politically

acceptable faculty is available; that .

14

adequate physical facilities exist; that
the student body can be accomodated;
that satisfactory administration stan-
dards and student supervision will be
established; and that the University
budget can be met.

The Committee must also nominate
an Acting Rector and Acting Deans
for the various faculties. The Military
Government Officer in charge of the
University will then, if he approves
the nominations, make the suggested
appointments.

UNIVERSITIES REOPEN

When approval for resumption is
finally granted by the Office of Mili-
tary Government, U. S. Zone, provisio-
nal operation of the University is per-
mitted, with the Acting Rector bearing
the responsibility for current ope-
rations. Priority is given to the medical
and theological faculties. To date, the
following university faculties have
been approved for reopening, and many
of them are already in session:
Heidelberg: Medical and Theological
Marburg: Medical, Theological, Philo-

sophical
Erlangen: Medical, Theological, Law
Wirzburg: Theological and Philosophi-
cal.

The screening and vetting of the
faculties at Frankfurt University have
been completed, and the university
buildings are now being repaired.
Munich University, the largest in the
U.S. Zone, is now preparing to re-
open, despite the fact that it suffered
considerable damage in air raids.

At the right are shown photographs taken at
the University of Wiirzburg: Top, two views of
the once magnificent university church. Middle,
the courtyard and north side of the church.
Bottom, the Martin von Wagner Museum and
the ruins of the university library, more than
100,000 volumes of which were saved.

--- Page 18 ---


--- Page 19 ---
Scientific research is at present for-.

bidden in any college, university or
institution in the U.S. Zone, except
where specifically authorized by the
Office of Military Government, U.S.
Zone.

Each of the universities in the U.S.
Zone possesses its own individuality,
compounded of its historical traditions
and its present stage of development,
Each has been reconstituted on the
basis of the general pattern of the
established directives, but each, in
addition, must be considered with an
understanding of its specific character.
It would be well, therefore, to examine
briefly the history and the present
status of each of the six universities
now being revitalized in the U.S. Zone.

HEIDELBERG

History and romance have combined
to make the name of Heidelberg Uni-
versity familiar and respected through-
out the world. To the thousands of
foreign students, as well as to its
native alumni, the university has for
more than 500 years represented the
fountain-head of the best and richest
in German intellectual life.

The university, founded in 1386 by
Elector Rupprecht of the Palatinate,
and therefore named officially, the
Rupprecht-Karls Universitat, was the
first university to be erected in Ger-
many proper. Until the 19th century,
the fortunes of the university rose and
fell with those of the Palatinate princes,
and in its history is reflected the
history of the entire area.

Originally a clerical institution, the
university was for more than a century
a strong adherent of the Papacy. By
the beginning of the 16th century, how-
ever, the seeds of humanism and. the
Reformation had begun to take root.
After the Reformation took full hold
in 1558, the university became the
stronghold of Calvinism in Germany,
and after Calvin’s death acquired the
name of the German Geneva.

The Thirty Years’ War which
ravaged the greater part of southern
Germany marked the end of the first
phase in the University’s history. Its
famous library was carried away to
the Vatican, and the university itself
ceased to exist.

Refounded in 1652, the university en-
joyed a brief renascence, but in 1693
the town and university were com-
pletely sacked by the troops of Louis
XIV.

The university was one more rebuilt
in 1712 under Elector Johann Wilhelm,
and the university building, the Domus
Wilhelmina, begun in that year is still
in use today. The Electors of the Pala-
tinate had reverted to Catholicism, and
throughout the 18th century the uni-
versity developed under Jesuit and
French influence. After the collapse of
the French monarchy, and the sub-
sequent partition of the Palatinate, Hei-
delberg, along with all the area on the
right bank of the Rhine, fell to Baden:
The Catholic influence ceased in 1807
when the university's Catholic theo-
logical faculty was transferred to the
University of Freiburg and was re-
placed by a Protestant faculty of the
now unified German Evangelical
Church.

Under the Grand Dukes of Baden,
the university expanded rapidly in both
size and reputation, achieving particular
eminence in medicine and the natural
sciences. Teachers such as Bunsen, the
great chemist, and Kirchhoff, the dis-
coverer of the Analysis of the Spectrum, _
were representative of the eminent men
whose work and teaching attracted a
tremendous influx of students from all
over Europe as well as from the New
World. In addition, Heidelberg was one
of the strongholds of the German Ro-

Views of Erlangen University are shown at the
right. The “buildings are undamaged, and the
university is capable of functioning at its normal
capacity.

--- Page 20 ---


--- Page 21 ---
mantic movement, and the names of
Brentano and von Arnim cast ad-
ditional glory on the university.

The ties between the University and
America have been particularly strong,
for in the past 150 years, thousands
of Americans have come to study at
the university. In 1928, when the uni-
versity was in great need of physical
expansion, the entire cost of a new
university building — more than half
a million dollars — was raised in the
United States.

MARBURG

The university of Marburg, in the
more than 400 years of its existence,
has known none of the vicissitudes
which characterize the history of Hei-
delberg University. Founded in 1527
by Prince Phillip of Hessen, Marburg
is the third oldest university in the
U.S. Zone. Prince Phillip, a member
of the League of Protestant Princes,
established the university to propagate
the “new faith” of the Reformation,
and throughout the succeeding 400
years, the university maintained its
Protestant Theological faculty.

The character of the university is
unique within the U.S. Zone as the
only university which came under Prus-
sian influence. Dominated by the Prus-
sian Ministry of Education from 1866
to 19338, the university represented a
fortress of political reaction. As a
primary step before reopening the
university, Military Government order-
ed the abolishment of the Prussian
pattern of control and the adoption
of the Baden system which prevails at
Heidelberg.

Always a small university, Marburg
now has 33 professors and 1,250
students in its Medical faculty, and
seven professors and 80 students in
the Theological faculty.

Like Heidelberg, Marburg owes much
to the generosity of its American
friends. Its Children’s Clinic, for ex-

18

ample, was constructed in 1925-27
largely with American funds.

ERLANGEN

Although the Friedrich-Alexanders
University of Erlangen is one of the
smallest universities in Germany, its
importance has always been far out
of proportion to its enrollment. The
university is a product of the golden

"age of the enlightenment, being found-

ed in 1743 by the Hohenzollern Prince
Friedrich Alexander, the brother-in-law
of Frederick the Great.

Erlangen is unique in that it pos-
sesses the only Protestant Theological
faculty in Bavaria, the historical
reasons for which go back more than
50 years before the founding of the
university. In 1685, the Prince of Bay-
reuth extended sanctuary to the perse-
cuted French Huguenots, many of whom
settled in Erlangen and its neighboring
city of Nirnberg. The university’s
Theological faculty was thus establish-
ed to cater to the needs of the predom-
inantly Protestant area of Franconia,
and under the constitution of the uni-
versity a chair for Calvinist theology
has always been maintained in the
Theological faculty of Erlangen.

The age of enlightenment was an era
of intense scientific expansion, and
much of the fame of Erlangen has re-
sulted from the excellence of its Na-
tural Science faculty. George Olm, the
great electro-physicist studied and
taught at the university. In the past
few decades, the university’s Frauen-
klinik with its attached Réntgen in-
stitute has achieved world-wide re-
cognition.

Frankfurt University: Top, the main university
building today. The roof is considerably destroyed
and the windows are out, but some of the rooms
are in good enough state to be used. Middle,
the same building in 1936. Bottom, the uni-
versity hospital and clinics in 1936.

--- Page 22 ---


--- Page 23 ---
Today, 274 students are working
under a teaching staff of fourteen in
the Theological faculty, and the Law,
Medical, and Natural Science faculties
have been approved and will open in
the near future. Erlangen, like Heidel-
berg, is completely undamaged and is
thus capable of functioning at its
normal capacity.

WURZBURG

The Julius-Maximilians University of
Wirzburg was founded in 1582 by
Bishop Julius Echter von Mespelbrunn
as the university of the Counter-Refor-
mation. Actually, a Catholic seminary
had existed in Wiirzburg as early as
1410, but it did not develop to
university status until the end of the
16th century.

From the date of its foundation until
the end of the 18th century, the uni-
versity was dominated by its Catholic
theological faculty, but after it came
under the control of Bavaria, its other
faculties expanded. The Natural
Science Faculty in particular shed
lustre on the university. Prominent
among its renowned scientists were
the pathologist Virchow, Réntgen, the
developer of the x-ray, and the Nobel
chemistry prize winners, Eduard Buch-
ner and Emil Fischer.

The university, one of the most
beautiful in all Germany, suffered al-
most 85 per cent damage from air
raids. The Theological faculty — the
only Catholic faculty now open in the
U. S. Zone has 78 students and
twelve teachers. The Philosophical fa-
culty has just been authorized to open,
and probably will do so shortly. At
present, the university is utilizing the
rooms of a teachers college for its
classes, and is planning barracks to
provide accomodations for prospective
students.

FRANKFURT
The University of Frankfurt unlike
all the other universities in the U.S.

20

Zone, has no traditions reaching back
through the centuries, had no royal
founder, and played no part in the
religious struggles which have charac-
terized German history.

Although the university
founded until 1914, and thus is one
of the youngest universities in Ger-
many, it is truly a product of the city
of Frankfurt-am-Main. For more than
five centuries, erection in the city of
a municipal university had been plann-
ed, but the dream was not fulfilled un-
til just before the outbreak of the first
World War. By that time, many in-
stitutes, as well as the great municipal
hospital, had already been established
in the city and formed a natural and
important basis for a university.

The university, until it came under
nazi control, expressed the liberal tra-
ditions of the city of Frankfurt,
and mirrored its commercial and
economic importance. The university
featured a highly specialized faculty
of Political Economy and Sociology,
and one of the finest medical faculties
in Germany. In addition, one of the,
first chairs in Clinical Radiology was
founded in Frankfurt.

In 1932, the university received the
name of Johann-Wolfgang-Goethe-Uni-
versitat, a name which emphasized the
great philosophical and literary tradi-
tions which the university was pledged
to carry on.

The university suffered great damage
along with the city, but intensive ef-
forts are currently being made to re-
pair some of the university buildings.
Students and teachers are being vetted,
and it is hoped that a start may soon
be made in recapturing the liberal re-
putation which the university possess-
ed prior to 1933.

MUNICH
"The University of Munich, named
after its Wittelsbach founder, the Lud-
wig-Maximilians Universitat, was be-
fore the war one of the largest and

was not

--- Page 24 ---
Munich University: Top and Bottom left, interior and exterior damage to the university from
Allied air raids was extensive. Bottom right, the same building as above in 1928.

21

--- Page 25 ---
most renowned German _ universities.
Originally founded in 1472 at Ingol-
stadt, the university was moved to
Landshut in 1800 and thence to Mu-
nich in 1826.

The university expanded tremen-
dously throughout the 19th and 20th
centuries, and in 1929 it had a student
body of more than 8,000 or four times
as many students as Heidelberg. The
extent and completeness of Munich’s
scientific facilities, rivalled in Ger-
many only by the universities of Ber-
lin and Leipzig, placed the university
in the highest rank among the universi-
ties of all Europe.

Under the nazis, the only break in
the complete acquiescence with which
the universities, both teachers and stu-
dents, accepted national socialist con-
trol occurred in 1943 at the University
of Munich. There, under the leadership
of Kurt Huber, Professor of music
and psychology, the “Munich Students’
Manifesto” was proclaimed shortly
after the German defeat at Stalingrad.
The manifesto called upon the youth
of Germany. to fight against the nazi
party, and specifically called for a
boycott of the lectures of party pro-
fessors and a mass exodus from party
organizations. Professor Huber and
several of the student leaders were
executed, but the episode remains as
a tribute to those German students

22

and teachers who valued intellectual
freedom more than their lives.

The University of Munich, like that
at Wirzburg, suffered extensive dam-
age from Allied air raids. Today,
only the medical faculty is ready to
resume, but university authorities hope
to have the remaining nine faculties
open by March 1946. Thus far, more
than 6,900 students have registered,
but the first semester will be able to
absorb only 2,270 men and 758
women.

The six universities now either in
operation or about to resume in the
U. S. Zone are today free of the per-
verted direction and control of the
nazi regime. They might well adopt,
as their goal, the aim which the Rec-
tor of the University of Heidelberg
described at the dedication of the
New University building in 1927. He
said, on that occasion: “In the new
home of the Ruperto-Carola, erected
with the help of American friends . .
may the significance of this present
hour remain ever alive. May the New
University be opened wide to the
disciples of learning in the whole
world. May it be for centuries ...
violably devoted to independent re-
search and teaching. May it be for all
times illumined by the soul of
mankind!”.

in-

--- Page 26 ---
Youth Organizations ana Pouitics

By Franz Marmorek

Military Government personnel are in the unique
position of studying at first hand the groups which
the nazis exploited when they came to power.
That this is so may have a salutary effect on the
future of the United States, in that all of us who
are here in Germany will be able to detect similar
tendencies in groups susceptible to facism else-
where. A significant example of the groups which
the nazis exploited are the youth movements.
Essentially so desirable and needed, they appear,
under the circumstances which prevailed in 1933,
to have been among the most easily turned 0}
all the social elements in Germany. This article
points out what made them so vulnerable, and
why the nazis found them so useful. Conversion
to fascism appears to have been almost impercep-
tible — it was a progress so smoothly accomp-
lished that many did not realize what was taking
place.

The German Youth Movement in
Germany originated in the last years
of the nineteenth century in revolt
against the conventional and rigid way
of life which characterized the Victo-
rian Age. It grew out of the desire
of youth to become independent from
the influences of school, church, pa-
rents, and society, and to find a new
way of life having close contact with
nature, and being dominated by the
company of its own generation.

From such an innocouous a begin-
ning, it developed through the years
as a constructive and valuable national
institution. The nazis found it useful,
too, with the tragic result can be seen
throughout the country today.

The first group in the German Youth
Movement was founded in Berlin in
1896. It became known as the Wander-
végel (Wandering Birds), and before
long similar groups developed all over
Germany. By 1911 there were 412 such
groups, having a combined totaliof'15,000
members. No definite program was
connected with this movement; it had
.the general aims of development of
character, personality, and individua-

23

Youth movements constitute
significant example of the groups
which the nazis exploited.

lity, thereby to better fit youth for the
tasks of later life. The spirit of
comradeship was stressed, as well as
a consciousness of responsibility
among the more mature.

Their activities were such as to
channel youth into physically and
mentally healthy activities. On Sundays
and holidays, groups could be seen
trekking all over the country, seeking
out its forests and mountains, dressed
in informal hiking suits, and carrying
a rucksack crammed with camping
utensils. At the head of these groups
were always a few who carried
guitars, which were decorated with
long colored ribbons, and they sang
long-forgotten folk © tunes while
wandering and in the evenings in front
of their campfires.

“PLAY GROUPS" FORMED

During the summer vacations, they
went on extended camping expeditions,
covering wide areas. In weekly meet-
ings, they discussed literature, world
problems, domestic questions, future
careers, and planned for other similar
excursions. The revival of old folk
tunes brought with it rediscovery of
folk dances and plays. “Play groups”
travelled around the country, perform-
ing dances and plays usually of a
mystical or religous character. The
berg became the most popular play-
almost legendary Hans Sachs of Niirn
wright of the German Youth Move-
ment, which began to develop its own
literature.

A number of groups, similar to the
Wandervigel, were formed, the most

--- Page 27 ---
important among them being the Bund
Deutscher Wanderer. It was atthe ‘insti-
gation of the latter group that a
meeting of all youth movement groups
took place on the Hohe Meissner, a
mountain near Kassel, in 1913. This
meeting, which was attended by 3,000
people — many well-known literary
figures among them — set up the con-
stitution for the Youth Movement, or,
as it was called by then, “The Free
German Youth”, whose aim was
described as shaping “its life on its
own responsibility and by its inward
integrity. For this inner freedom it
will assert itself unanimously under
all circumstances”.

INFLUENCE FELT

Though the Youth movement compri-
sed only a small part of the German
youth as a whole, nonetheless its
influence was felt by all in Germany.
To a considerable extent, it succeeded
in liberating social life. It shook, but
did not break, the military tradition
(the youth movement was opposed to
regimentation and militarism), and it
awakened a love for nature, the out-
door life, and the peasant tradition.
Above all things, it served to make
youth a recognized factor in the life
of the nation, as could be evidenced
in the new types of schools which
were established under its influence,
best known of which was Gustav
Wyneken’s Freie. Schulgemeinde,
at Wickersdorf.
in the established schools
pupils formed their own organizations,
thus influencing the policy and
teaching them. Jugendherberge
(youth hostels) were founded to house
wandering groups on trips and vaca-
tions, and exchange trips to foreign
countries instigated. Thinking
along international lines, the German
youth tried in this way to find contact
with youth in other countries.

Even

in

were

24

POST-WORLD WAR |
The end of World War I brought

about a decisive change in the cha-
racter of the German Youth Move-
ment, in that it acquired pronounced
political affiliations of various kinds.
Pre-war, the movement had been
essentially non-political, devoting itself
to the personal development of the in-
dividual. The problems of public life
were considered in a detached manner
as questions primarily of merely
academic interest to youth. It became
evident that, while the movement had
been effective in breaking down old
ideas and traditions and had influenced
the personal lives of its members, it
had not considered taking an active
part in the political life of the nation.

German post-war youth felt a desire
to find a close contact with political
life, and youth groups attached them-
selves to the various political and
religious organizations, at the same
time adhering to the principles enun-
ciated in 1913 at the Hohe Meissner.
Thus, a German’s torn political life
was mirrored in its numerous youth
organizations.

The only large: organization’ which
refused to affiliate itself with any
political party or religious sect was
the Austro-German Boy Scout Orga-
nization, which was patterned after
Baden-Powell’s Boy Scout Movement.
They retained the Hohe Meissner tra-
dition, which is why the German Boy
Scouts were far less military and
regimented than most of the interna-
tional Boy Scout organizations with
which, incidentally, they were not
affiliated. In both Austria and ter-
many a comparatively large percentage
of former Boy Scouts were found to
have been in the anti-nazi underground.

With an aroused political interest,
and a consequent attachment to politi-
eal parties and religious sects, there
came external changes which, in
retrospect, appear particularly signi-

--- Page 28 ---
ficant. The casual and informal hiking
outfits were replaced by standard
uniforms. Some of the newly-formed
groups were rigidly military, especially
those affiliated with right wing politi-
cal parties. There were many conser-
vative-nationalistic groups not closely
attached to political parties which,
nonetheless, accepted the general
ideas of the conservative wing, espe-
cially nationalism and anti-semitism.
This applies particularly to the “Vél-
kische” groups such as the Adler und
Falken, Gausen, and the Jungnatio-
naler Bund.

YOUTH GROUPS

Outstanding among the youth groups
affiliated with political parties were:

Communist: Kommunistischer Ju-
gendverband, Jungspartakus Bund, and
Rote Jungfront.

Social Democrat: Sozialistische Ar-
beiterfreunde, Kinderfreunde, and Rote
Falken.

(Ideologically connected with left
wing groups, though not attached to
any party, were: Freie Sozialistische
Jugend, and, in Austria, the Verband
Sozialistischer Mittelschiiler.)

Democratic Party: Reichsbund der
Deutschen Windhorstbiinde.

Deutsche Volkspartei: Reichsjugend
der Deutschen Volkspartci, and, in
Austria, the Volksgemeinschaft Oester-
reich.

Deutschnationale Volkspartei (Con-
servatives): Jungstahlhelm, Scharn-
horstbund, Kénigin Luise Bund, Bis-
marckjugend, Jungsturm Kolberg,
Kyffhauser Jugend, and Volksbund fir
das Deutschtum im Ausland.
Connected with the Freikorps were:
Jungwolf [youth organizations of the
Wehrwolf], Jugendbund Schlageter
connected with the Tannenberg
Bund, Jungdeutscher Orden, and
Ordensgemeinschaft Jungdeutscher
Schwestern.)

NSDAP: Hitlerjugend.

25

RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS

The main religious youth organiza-
tions were:

Protestant: Evangelisches Jungmin-
nerwerk Deutschlands (YMCA), Evan-
gelischer Verband fiir Weibliche Ju-
gend (YWCA).

Catholic: Verband Katholischer Ju-
gend und Jungmanner Vereine, Katho-
lische Jungfrauenvereine, and Quick-
born.

Jewish: Reichsausschuss der Jiidi-
schen Jugeidverbinde, which had as
its largest groups: Wandervégel Blau-
Weiss, Kadihma, and Verband der Jii-
dischen Jugendvereine Deutschlands.

Youth organizations of the Trade
Unions were:

Deutschnationaler ~Handlungsgehil-
fenverband (strongly nationalistic and
anti-semitic), Zentralstelle fiir die Ar-
beitende Jugend Deutschlands (con-
nected with the Free Trade Unions),
and the agricultureal Reichsjungland-
bund.

THE NAZIS AND YOUTH

The notorious Hitlerjugend was only
one of many youth groups affiliated
with political parties. Shortly after
Hitler’s accession to power, Baldur
von Schirach, leader of the Hitler-
jugend, succeeded in destroying prac-
tically all other youth groups and orga-
nizations, even as Hitler destroyed all
other political parties. Catholic youth
organizations, while never specifically
forbidden, were in fact obliterated by
various Nazi decrees.

A law issued December ist, 1936
defined the functions of the Hitler-
jugend:

1. The whole of the German youth
was to be organized within the Hitler-
jugend.

2. The task of the Hitlerjugend was
defined as follows: That all the youth
of Germany would, outside the home
and school, receive their training —
physical, mental, and moral — in the

--- Page 29 ---
Hitlerjugend, which would fit them
for national service and the spirit of
nazism.

3. Training of the German youth was
entrusted to the “Reich Youth Leader
of the German Reich”, who, in this
capacity, ranked as a departmental
chief at Reich level, being directly
responsible to Hitler.

Thus, nearly every juvenile between
the ages of ten and eighteen was obli-
ged to serve in the Hitlerjugend, where
he (or she) received pre-military trai-
ning. During the war, the Hitlerjugend
served as an agricultural and industrial
helpers, ultimately serving as a part
of the Volkssturm and even in military
units. The organization of the Hitler-
jugend was modeled after that of the
Army, the concepts of discipline and
duty being almost identical with those
of the Wehrmacht.

PARTY DOMINATION

The Hitlerjugend, as it developed
into the only national youth organi-
zation in Germany, effectively elimi-
nated all influences other than those
of the NSDAP, including the influences
of the family and the church. There
was an expansion of activities to such
an extent that no time was left for
youth to devote to a home life or a
moral development aside from that
which the party offered. The party
effectively used the youth of the
nation, through the medium of its offi-
cial organization, as informers on their
more intransigent elders, and in its
effort to break down all the barriers
between the state and the individual,
the party successfully turned the youn-
ger generation against the more mature
and less impressionable.

YOUTH TODAY

World War II has left German
youth unorganized and disillusioned.
Most of what they possessed and be-
lieved in has been destroyed or dis-
‘credited. In general, they are dis-

26

illusioned about politics and are re-
luctant to affiliate with political or-
ganizations; but they are eager to get
information on democracy as it is
known in the United States and Great
Britain. Various pre-Hitler political
parties, as well as newly-organized
ones, are doing some spade work in
the youth field — hoping that the time
will soon come when legitimate politi-
cal organizations of youth can function
once more. But it will be some time
before disillusion gives way to belief
in the possibility of making progress
through politics.

One of the lessons to be learned
from the rise and fall of fascism is that
youth organizations, as well as social
and economic organizations of adults,
can be readily captured by totalitarian
leaders and movements. Organizations
without well-formed ideologies or
strong religious foundations are more
adaptable to new purposes. Inso far as
politics is concerned, parties operating
on a democratic basis must be made
conscious of the responsibility they
have, as political parties, for providing
sufficient political education for youth
when such activity is permitted.

Two important factors having to do
with the German way of thought and
expression must be borne in mind in
considering the re-education and re-
orientation of German youth.

First, revived political organizations
for youth (who have been so long
and thoroughly indoctrinated by
nazism), stand a good chance at pre-
sent of becoming a Hitlerjugend of a
new kind, the method of approach
being changed from “Heil Hitler!” to
“Heil anti-Hitler!” Despite their ideold-
wical differences, almost all of the
pre-1933 political parties had a: lot
in common. A typical illustration was
that of an American traveler in Ger-
many in the early 1930s, who visited
several meetings of the various parties,
but found it difficult, initially, to deter-

--- Page 30 ---
mine just which party’s meeting he
was attending, since all the parties
were held in halls decorated with
multicolored flags and guarded by
uniformed party guards. Para-military
organizations were drawn up in close
order throughout the hall: The Reichs-
banner (Social Democrats), the Stahl-
helm (Deutschnationale Volkspartei),
the SA and SS (NSDAP), ete, as
well as the various uniformed youth
organizations. At the approach of the
speaker, all assisting in the rally
would raise their arms (the Commu-
nists the fist, the Social Democrats the
arms vertically, the NSDAP the arms
diagonally), the while shouting in uni-
son some salute such as “Heil!”, “Rot
Front!”, “Freiheit!”, to the accompani-
ment of martial music of one kind
or another. It can be seen that the
nazis were not unique in their political
rallies; they were merely more effec-
tive.

SPEAK NEW LANGUAGE

The second factor to be considered
in the political re-education of youth
is that of language. All Germans, even

- the most liberal elements, are today
speaking a new language; a language
which has, in twelve years’ time chang-
ed the meaning of many words, ideas,
and expressions.

A student of foreign languages
usually finds that in the primary stages
of language study translation into his
native tongue is comparatively simple;
missing words can be located in a
dictionary. As his studies progress, he
finds that literal translation from one
language to another is practically im-
possible ‘in many cases, since differ-
ent roots, thoughts, traditions and
associations give seemingly equivalent
expressions quite different meanings.
While it is true that such differences
may not be basic, the net effect in
translation is apt to be that the whole
tenor of the subject mattér is changed.

It is apparent that within the Ger-

27

man language itself twelve years of
national socialism have wrought new
language traditions and associations.
The language of Weimar and that of
the nazis are not the same, even though
the worlds themselves are unchanged.
One well-educated, young . German
recently asserted that whenever the
French Revolution is mentioned a
shudder runs down his spine. Nazism
taught German youth meanings for the
word “Democracy” which, to a Ger-
man citizen under the Weimar regime,
meant something quite different.

The intellectual leaders of nazism
succeeded in large measure in changing
much of Germany’s political language,
so that today many figurative expres-
sions have a sense hitherto unknown.

FACED WITH CHANGES

Thoughts, ideas, and traditions have
changed as well as language. Goethe,
under the nazis, was interpreted as a
highly nationalistic writer. Outstanding
German writers and scientists, known
for generations to the whole world,
are unknown to the present generation
of youth. As far as German youth
today is concerned, a large part of
the German liberal tradition never
existed.

The German youth Movement had
many excellent point in its favor,
some of which were incorporated
into youth throughout the world. To
revive it, there must be a complete po-
litical re-education. This does not
mean, necessarily, that political edu-
cation need be associated with party
politics, because the requirements for
such an education must be greater,
perhaps, than any party is equipped to
fill. It is evident that the youth move-
ment in Germany died because it was
politically unconstructive; but before it
revives as a salutory force in German
life and politics there is a long road
to political orientation which only an

enlightened plan for education can
develop.

--- Page 31 ---
Generat

). P. POSTAL S

YHRVICE

to United States Opens

Postal service between the United
States and United Nations displaced
persons, or those assimilated to them
in status, in the U. S. Zone of Ger-
many has been established. Service to
other countries will be extended at a
later date.

Use of UNNRA Postal Form 1
(UNNRA Headquarters, U. S. Zone,
Germany) is prescribed as the means
whereby displaced persons may notify
friends or relatives in the United
States as to their correct addresses.

All languages are permitted in the
25-word message on UNNRA Postal
Form 1, which also is a permit for
the addresses in the United States to
send non-transactional mail and gift
parcels to the sender of the form.
Contents of parcels sent from the
United States will be limited to cloth-
ing, non-perishable food and similar
items. Parcels will not weigh more
than five pounds,and a sender will
not dispatch more than one parcel a
week to the same addressee.

The completed form referred to
above will be required by U. S. post-
masters for persons in the U. S. to
send letters or parcels. After the
initial contact is established through the
use of UNNRA Postal Form 1, the
displaced person originating the con-
tact will be permitted to mail through
this service not more than one letter
per week. The letter will be limited
to two sheets of paper and only one
side of the sheet will be written upon.

28

United Nations displaced persons
in U. S. Zone of Germany may
now write to friends and rela-
tives in America.

No parcels will be sent from the U. S.
zone to the United States by displaced
persons.

Officials of displaced persons assemb-
ly centers will be charged with the
proper handling of mail and with its
safe keeping. All mail will be subject
to censorship. Transmission in both
directions will be by land and water
only.

CIC Credentials

The credentials of members of the
Counter Intelligence Corps have been
outlined in a recent USFET letter so
that all personnel can detect any per-
sons misrepresenting themselves as CIC
Agents in order to gain access to
certain headquarters and to classified
information, claim special privileges
or be quoted in the press as CIC
agents.

All officers and special agents of
the CIC are registered agents of the
War Department and can so identify
themselves by a gold, shield-shaped
badge inscribed, “War Department,
Military Intelligence”, and/or leather-
bound credentials issued by the Mili-
tary Intelligence Division of the War

--- Page 32 ---
Department which contain the photo-
graph and a personal description of
the bearer certifying that he is a spe-
cial agent of the CIC.

CIC agents, although usually in civ-
ilian-type uniform, may wear civilian
clothing when a particular mission
makes such clothing desirable. When
in uniform, the CIC agent may be
distinguished from technical represen-
tatives, technical observers, journalists
and other United States civilians ac-
companying the Army in that the CIC
agent is not required, as are all these
latter, to wear a dark blue emblem
with a white triangle and the letters
“U.S.” in dark blue on the left shoulder
sleeve of all outer garments of the
uniform.

Impersonation of Counter Intelli-
gence Corps agents by unauthorized
personnel constitutes a serious violation
of War Department directives and sub-
jects the offender to trial by courts
martial. Incidents of such imperson-
ation will be reported immediately to
the Military Police and by them to the
A.C. of S., G-2, of the command hayv-
ing jurisdiction over the area in which
the offense occurs.

Restitution Claims

Claims for restitution of United Na-
tions property, said to be or found
within Germany, must be forwarded
to the Economics Division Restitution
Control Branch, Office of Military Gov-
ernment, U.S. Zone, USFET has point-
ed out.

There have been some instances of
restitution being effected without
reference to O.M.G., and such actions
are contrary to all instructions. O.M.G.,
U.S. Zone, is the only agency authoriz-
ed to issue authority for release of
property found within Germany.

29

Inter-Zonal Circuits

Although authority has been grant-
ed by USFET to establish inter-zonal
telephone and telegraph circuits, their
use by civilians has not as yet been
authorized.

USFET, in a recent cable to both
Military Districts, ordered that im-
mediate steps be taken to restrict civ-
ilians from using inter-zonal circuits
until official authorization for their
use by civilians is given.

Vehicular Lights

The transportation officers of the
three Lander have been directed by
USFET to instruct the directors of
vehicular traffic in their Land to insure
that all German road transport vehicles
and trailers are provided with tail
lights or reflectors.

Many civilian vehicles have been
operating without this equipment and
constitute a dangerous hazard for road
traffic in the U.S. Zone.

Dyeing of Uniforms

All German uniforms will be dyed
a color other than blue or olive drab
within five days prior to discharge of
the prisoner concerned, USFET has
announced in a summary of instructions
on dyeing of prisoners of war uniforms.

No German uniforms will be dyed
for prisoners not subject to discharge
within five days. No Hungarian army
uniforms will be dyed either upon
retention or discharge of Hungarian
prisoners. Without exception, all U.S.
military clothing worn by prisoners
will be dyed a color other than blue
or olive drab immediately.

Theater Service Forces Rear have
been advised that no prisoners subject
to immediate discharge will be shipped
to other commands unless all uniforms
have been dyed a color other than
blue or olive drab.

--- Page 33 ---
German Reactions

Germans

S ook Ahead *

The following account of the Ger-
man state of mind is reported from
the office of Military Government, Ba-
den-Wiirttemberg.

During the early months of the occu-
pation, the concern of the German
people with immediate problems of
satisfying the bare necessities of life,
and the omnipresence of Military Gov-
ernment with its multiple controls
over every phase of economic activity,
were not conducive to realistic and
independent German thought concern-
ing the economic future of Germany.
Those who have entertained positive
ideas hesitated to express them in
public, and few sought official
guidance. The economic problems fac-
ing Germany were felt instinctively,
and during the past six months that
feeling has been expressed in the form
of fear, despair, and resentment.

UNDERGOING CHANGE

This situation is presently under-
going a gradual change. There is a
growing belief among the more in-
formed sections of the population that
future international agreements may af-
ford the possibility of a degree of
economic reconstruction, possibly to
the extent of making Germany self-
supporting and restoring her purchas-
ing power as a market for the world’s
exports. People are also beginning to
realize that unless they plan and exe-
cute their economic policies within the
framework of the opportunities offer-
ed them by international policy, their

30

Informed sections of the pop-
ulation now hopeful future inter-
national agreements will afford
the possibility of a degree of eco-
nomic reconstruction.

efforts will come to naught. If any
think in terms of pre-war industrial
and commercial activities, they have
thus far preferred to remain
articulate.

in-

Several factors have been responsible
for this change in the state of mind
among increasing numbers of the Ger-
man people. In spite of thisir short-
comings, the political parties have, to’
some extent, stirred the public mind
and provoked discussion of funda-
mental problems affecting the future
of Germany. The press, the radio, and
the other information services, how-
ever inadequate they may bé, have
kept the German public abreast of the
main trends of development in the
world at large and as they affect the
future of Germany. The greatest im-
pression was produced by the avowed
policy of maintaining Germany as an
economic unit and its implementation
in the United States Zone by the crea-
tion of the Council of Minister Presi-
dents.

The term reconstruction is, there-
fore, beginning to assume an air of
greater reality. It is interpreted dif-
ferently by the various groups from
right to the left. None of these groups
has as yet clearly stated its social and

--- Page 34 ---
economic aims. These can only be con-
strued from the tenor and emphasis
of the speeches at political party ral-
lies and from private expressions of
representative political leaders, in-
dustrialists, bankers, and businessmen.

It is quite clear that the more radical
elements will press for far-reaching
social and economic reforms on the
ground that it is easier to build anew
from the foundations than to begin
by first tearing down the old, and, if
German economic life is to be rebuilt
from its ruins, it must be established
on the most advanced social founda-
tions. The more farsighted conserv-
ative elements are becoming aware
of the need of a reorientation of Ger-
man economic thought, in the sense
of concentrating on the development
of those industries and commercial
pursuits which may be permitted to
compete in the international market
and on reviewing crafts and trades
to assure employment at home.

FINANCIAL PROBLEM

It is realized that before any serious
efforts can be made towards the resto-
ration of a more normal economic
existence, the question of Germany’s
financial status must be settled. There
is great concern among all classes of
the population about the quantity of
money in circulation and the height to
which bank deposits have risen. The
fear of inflation is great, especially
among those who recall the experience
of a quarter of a century ago and
realize the implications of the financial
policy pursued since 1933. With the
future value of the Reichsmark in
doubt, people are showing reluctance
to work and are preparing, instead,
to spend the money in their possession
on the limited assortment of consumer’s
goods and food products now available
for purchase. The large amount of
money in circulation is giving added
impetus to the black market, inasmuch

31

as cash payments facilitate illegal
transactions by leaving no book record
of the amounts which have changed
hands.

Among the principal uncertainties in
the minds of conservative financial ob-
servers is the treatment to be accord-
ed to the Reich debts, the claims for
war damages, and to the claims against
the procurement services of the Wehr-
macht, organization Todt, and of the
nazi party and affiliated organizations.
The Reich debts and the claims for war
damages are most important, inasmuch
as they affect immediately the com-
mercial and savings banks and in-
surance companies as well as an un-
determinedly large number of
dividuals. The hopes that at some
future date part of these obligations
would be assumed by a central Ger-
man government seem to have been
dispelled for the moment.

in-

TAX RECEIPTS DROP

The state of German public finance
is far from normal. Tax collections
are 20 to 25 per cent of those of a
year ago, with the chances of an early
improvement very limited. A slight in-
crease will be obtained by the higher
rates prescribed for income taxes.
However, any marked improvement in
revenues is contingent “upon a
measurable revival of trade and  in>
dustry. It is generally recognized that
a period of deficit financing is in-
evitable until such time as German
economic life assumes a more normal
character and coal and raw materials
become available to permit the revival
of industry consistent with interna-
tional policy.

One of the conditions for the nor-
malization of German economic life,
necessary to assure public peace and
order, is a consistent Military Gov-
ernment policy which, however stern
it may be, carries with it the as-
surance of being pursued without fre-

--- Page 35 ---
quent modifications. The experiences
of recent months have clearly shown
that increasing public uncertainly is
created with each new change in exist-
ing policy regulations and that the
rumors attendant upon such changes
damage the prestige of Military Gov-
ernment and demoralize the people.
In such times of uncertainty, the great-
est need is for measures, policies, and
regulations that create among the
people confidence in the occupation
authorities.

Local Elections

There has been much discussion in
the German press of late as to the
advisability of postponing local elec-
tions until some future date when,
presumably, the German people will
be better prepared to express their
democratic views.

A committee consisting of represent-
atives of the four leading political
parties in Frankfurt has formally re-
quested a postponment of the election,
particularly on the grounds that there
was insufficient time to draw up the
electoral lists and to eliminate nazis.
The following article, which interest-
ingly comments on the election situa-
tion, is reprinted from The Frank-
furter Rundschau.

“The joint committee of Frankfurt’s
four parties has asked the Minister
President to postpone the election date.
It appears to be an odd reversal of
political conceptions when democratic
organizations come out against hold-
ing elections, which are an essential
characteristic of a democratic form
of government.

“The reconstruction of. Germany is
only now beginning to take on a de-
finite form. In general, one thing is
certain: the active defenders of ter-
rorism or activists, are to be: denied
the right to vote. But in the last meet-
ing of the Frankfurt Citizens’ Com-
mittee, it was clearly stated by. all the

32

parties that a definite meaning for the
word “activist” does not yet exist. In
addition, there are no membership
files of the NSDAP available for use
by the election boards.

PERSECUTION LIKELY

“Tt is undoubtedly right, as provid-
ed in the election codes, that joint
committees of the parties be entrusted
with the elimination of those who
should not vote, but such committees
do not exist in many towns. Their
lack is particularly noticeable in the
smaller communities which will be the
first to hold elections. Besides, in
these smaller communities the  in-
fluence of some of the old inhabitants,
as well as of various newcomers, who
are enemies of democracy, is so pre-
dominant that the members of elec-
tion committees will have to expect
boycott and persecution, sometimes
even from official sources, if they ful-
fill their mission conscientiously.

“The situation could not, as yet, be
satisfactorily explained to the public
through political pamphlets or other
literature: If the committees are to
develop into useful organizations, it
will be necessary that, representatives
of every party, particularly in the small
communities, sometimes almost for-
gotten, get the support of their or-
ganizations at Land level in order to
counteract the still existing influence
of the nazis.

“All this looks like ‘democratic dic-
tatorship’ and seems to be contrary
to the rules of democracy calling for
free and general elections. But we have
learned in the past decades that democ-
racy should not abide by the rules
when it is opposed by nazis, whose
rules are based on bloody realism.

“All precautions must be taken to
ensure that these elections are a stimu-
lant to democratic processes and do
not have repercussions. Probably for
the same reason, the election date has

--- Page 36 ---
been postponed in Greece. In addition,
what must be prevented is that the
elections give the wrong picture, one
not in agreement with the sentiments
of the majority of voters from all Ger-
many. It would be greatly damaging to
our prestige if the results were disputed
later because of mistakes in the vot-
ing lists not previously rectified due
to lack of time.

“We have reason to expect that not
only the parties in Frankfurt, but all
three governments in the American
Zone as well, recognize these points.

It. is especially encouraging that no
party has. tried to speculate on win-
ning the nazi votes. When the above
considerations have been taken into
account by Military Government, it
may be possible to appoint a German
central committee to supervise elec-
tions in all zones, particularly in the
larger towns, thus ensuring the un-
folding of a unified and clearer picture
which will demonstrate that progres-
sive development is possible in Ger-
many.”

Agreement with French

USFET recently announced the com-
pletion of arrangements with the
French as to use of U.S. military outer
clothing.

In clothing for French military per-
sonnel, buttons and distinctive U.S.
insignia will be removed and the
garments will be worn only with ap-
propriate French army insignia.

When clothing is turned over to
French non-military as civilians, pri-
soners of war, etc, it will be dyed
under the supervision of the French
agency responsible for distribution.

While the U.S. military has no direct
control over this, arrangements to date
have proven reasonably effective and
the French are co-operating.

33

Are Farmers Businessmen 2

A harried Landkreis Military Gov-
ernment officer writes to ask just how
farming is to be carried on if blocked
owners cannot enjoy the privileges
granted by Article IV of Military Gov-
ernment Law No. 52. This applies only
to business enterprises, he complains,
and, according to a letter dated Oc-
tober 6th, farms are not business enter-
prises. Do blocked farmers need a li-
cense to buy a cow?

The letter of October 6th, applies only
to the operations of M.G. Law No. 8. Far-
mers continue to be businessmen insofar
as Law No. 52is concerned and can carry
on the normal operations of their
business without special licenses under
Law No. 52 even though they may
be blocked.

--- Page 37 ---
(Dress Comments

Occupation Problems

Se
Aye New Yorke Gmes

"Testo cos

in News Spotlight

While the trial of nazi war crim-
inals commanded continuing in-
terest, the Army’s role in the
occupation of Germany and the prob-
lems of occupation were also the
subject of much editorial comment
during the week. The speed of
redeployment and the desire of mili-
tary personnel to return home were
viewed as factors adversely affecting
the military occupation. Other com-
mentators warned of the danger to
the United States that would stem
from the refusal to assume its post-
war responsibilities in Europe.

ACCOMMODATIONS HIT

In a dispatch to The New York
Herald Tribune from Niirnberg, Wil-
liam L. Shirer sharply criticized the
Army for failing to provide decent
facilities for the correspondents as-
signed to cover the war criminals
trials and expressed the view that this
failure evidenced the disorganization
of the Army. “Certain it is that hasty
redeployment has left the Army and
the Military Government in a pretty
fix and responsible for a general ‘don’t-
give- a- damn’ attitude,” said Shirer.
“Those about to be redeployed do not
give a damn and those who must
remain in Germany are too busy fix-
ing up pleasant living quarters, laying
in liquor stocks and a good mess and
getting a girl to give a damn”.

A sharp criticism of occupation
policies was voiced by William Harlan
Hale in an article in the December
issue of Harper’s Magazine entitled,
“Our Failure in Germany”. Said Hale:

34

“The emphasis on sending in non-poli-
tical technicians rather than men who
could effectively command a German
political housekeeping backfired when
we found that the German public had
come to lean on us to run their plant
for them and that we had come to
lean on the Germans to show us how
to clean their house. It would seem,
then, that with all respect to their
devotion to duty, a great number of
the men whom our Military Govern-
ment chiefs picked were either the
wrong men for the job or had not
been properly trained for it. To an
observer on the scene, the result looks
like a gradual and inevitable erosion
of American policy”.

POLICY OR PERSONNEL

Pointing out that the problem of
occupation is a difficult one at best,
The Springfield Union said that “the
question arises whether failure is due
more to policy than to personnel. There
is devotion to the task on the part. of
many; there is also much incompetence
and worse. Before we can carry out
a policy in Germany, however, . we
must have a workable policy and there
must be individuals capable of
carrying it out”.

Warning of the danger of a retreat
from our post-war responsibilities,
Cedric Foster, in an MBS broadcast,
declared that “on the anniversary of
Pearl Harbor we know two things.
If we do accept our responsibilities
that even then we can’t guarantee
againstafuture war being fought, and
our being involved in it. But we also

--- Page 38 ---
know that if we can take the past: as
a criterion — and we haye no other
method of judging — and if we refuse
to shoulder the burdens encumbent
upon us, we are headed straight down
the road to Armageddon”.

Several commentators voiced ‘regret
that better provision had not been
made to publicize to the German people
the proceedings at Niirnberg. One of
these was Anne O’Hare McCormick
of The New York Times. “It’s too
bad more Germans are not present
at the trial and that it is not more
extensively reported in German, so
that the people most concerned should
know the inevitable details of the plot
they supported,” she said. “It must
fail of its most desired effect unless
the defeated people get a complete
story and know that the crime being
judged was a conspiracy against them
as well as against the rest of the
world”.

HISTORY BENEFITS

In the opinion of Marquis Childs,
the Niirnberg proceedings are showing
the pattern of Nazi aggression “in all
its deliberate, calculated detail. If
Goering, Ribbentrop and the others
had been shot on arrest, we would
in all probability never had an orderly
documentation of their guilt. It would
have been far easier in later years to
make martyrs of the bedraggled, cring-
ing men now in the dock”.

That the Allies have not destroyed
the Fuehrer creed is evidenced by the
reiteration of Goering at the Niirn-
berg trial of devotion to the principles
of Hitler and Hitlerism, declared The
St. Louis Globe Democrat. “The Niirn-
berg trial will establish before most of
the world the guilt of Nazi aggression,”
it said. “That it will convince Ger-
many of its crime seems dubious”.

35

Price Report

Editorial writers continued to find
a topic for comment in the Price
Report with comment both favorable
and critical of occupation _ policies.
Typical of the favorable observations
was the following from the Washing-
ton columnist, Ernest Lindley: “The
next impression left by the Price Report
is that the American occupation
authorities have, on the whole, done
as well as could be expected in carry-
ing out their instructions, but that we
are only at the first stages of an intri-
cate problem for which no acceptable
and workable solution is yet visible”.

Several American papers dissented
with the view of the Price Report
that France is principally to blame for
the critical situation in Germany. In
the opinion of The Cincinnati Times
Star, this is only part of the story.
“The Allied task was not only to
render Germany militarily impotent,
but to try to put her back on her
feet,” it declared. “Precious little
progress has been made along that
line. It is unfair to blame the French
for all of this. The fault goes back to
the division of the country into four
zones, each under a separate ally, and
laid out on haphazard lines without
regard to economic units. If Germany
is to be helped back to economic
health, she must be regarded as one

nation, not four, and the same
remedial devices must be applied
equally throughout the country.

Whether we like it or not, Germany
is an important part of Europe, and
not until Germany takes her proper
place in the future Europe will that
continent be settled again”.

In an editorial on December 8th,
The New York Herald-Tribune said
that neither Price nor any other re-
sponsible official has answered. the
French criticisms except by pointing
to the deplorable economic conditions

--- Page 39 ---
in Germany under the present regime
and by reiterating the phrases of the
Potsdam agreement — to which France
was not a party”.

Popularity Contest

Commenting on the recent Army
report on the German attitude toward
the U. S. forces, which indicated
declining popularity, The Philadelphia
Bulletin emphasised that “these are
Germans speaking through an Ameri-
can mouthpiece. These opinions are
valuable if they reveal real weakness
in American occupation policy, or are
storm signals of impending disaster.
But the fact that they represent the
German viewpoint is to be remember-
ed”. \

In the opinion of Samuel Grafton,
writing in The New York Post, more
important was the disclosure in a Ber-
lin news dispatch that other Army
studies indicate that “a chief barrier
to German political education is the
fact that many Germans. firmly ex-
pect a war between America and Rus-
sia. Here we see one definite result
of the breakdown in confidence be-
tween America and Russia”.

Discussing the report on the grow-
ing unpopularity of Americans among
Germans, The New York Herald Tri-
bune warned that “it will not be to
the credit of the American way if
sheer inefficiency and lack of disci-
pline become a hallmark of American
methods. The troubles arising from
this source are by no means confined
to Germany; they have complicated
American relations with France, and
will undoubtedly’ be reported in ex-
aggerated terms all over Europe. The
need for finding capable administra-
tors who can function under conditions
of reasonable stability, of fixing ade-
quate quotas of occupation troops who
will have. fixed responsibilities _ and
terms’ of service —. (and ‘who will not,
therefore, be ‘sweating out’ an. un-

36.

pleasant and indefinite period: at- the
fag end of a war) — are quite as
important as reaching agreement with
the other Allies on plans for the
over-all control of Germany”.

Marshall Appointment

Appointment of Gen. George C.
Marshall as Ambassador to China is
to be interpreted as evidence of the
President’s deep concern over political
disunity in the Far East and as an
indication that “China has become just
as important to world peace as Rus-
sia,” declared Bill Costello, in a recent
CBS broadcast.

Marquis Childs stated that Marshall
“has again proved himself a patriot
in accepting this extremely difficult
assignment when the luxury of retire-
ment was in his grasp”. William
Philip Simms, Scripps-Howard writer
on international affairs, said that un-
less Marshall were given “the un-
flinching backing of a State Depart-
ment which can be relied upon from
top to bottom to support a strictly
American policy, his mission will be
doomed”.

Random Comments
Themenand women of ‘MIL.GOV”’

work under inconceivable difficulties.
They work all sorts of hours. But
somehow or other, they are getting
the job done. In six months, they have
managed to turn chaos into a well-
governed country. Though they don’t
boast, they are proud of what they
have done. They know quite well that
they aren’t doing it ‘for the sake of the
Germans’. They are doing it because,
if Germany were to collapse into
anarchy, all Europe would suffer” —
W.N. Ewer in London Daily Herald.

* *

“Aside ‘from its military aspects,
occupation is a most difficult and

4

--- Page 40 ---
complex form of government. Here in
Germany, as anyone on the ground can
see, it involves problems far beyond
the German problem. And that is
staggering enough in itself. In fairness
to the Army, it should be said that
a great many officers are performing
an unprecedented and supremely diffi-
cult job with impressive competence
and devotion. If they fail, it is because
the policy they do their best to
follow — and especially the quadri
partite interpretation of policy — are
unworkable. The most intelligent mili-
tary men agree that the task should
be turned over to civilians, but this
raises the question of what civilians.
Where are the great statesmen and
administrators who are able to raise
a policy and carry it out? Not only
American prestige, but peace itself
depends on the answer.” —- Anne
O'Hare McCormick in dispatch to The
New York Times from Munich.

* *

“All current reports from Germany
agree on one thing, which has not
been appreciated before. It is that the
American record on denazification has
been, by all odds, the best of any of
the occupying powers. There is the
least poverty and suffering in the Bri-
tish Zone, the strongest new political
ideas in the Russian Zone, and the
most deprivation of the Germans in
the French Zone. But there are fewer
Nazis still holding administrative and
business positions of authority in the
American Zone.” — Joseph C. Harsch
in Christian Science Monitor.

* *

“The Russian problem is not to be
solved by any atomic tricks. It calls
rather for a policy of practical inter-
national psychiatry, in which the pre-
scription for the Western States to
follow is a patient search for every
concession, economic and political, that
can properly be made to meet Russian

37

needs, as well as a resolute. deter-
mination not to allow ourselves to
become scared and suspicious of them
as they are of us, and a courteous
insistence on the basic principles of
fair dealing among nations” — London
Economist.

* *

“A crisis is maturing in American
foreign policy, of which the resigna-
tion of General Hurley as Ambassador
to China is only one portent. The
truth is that since the end of the war
we have had no foreign policy recog-
nizable as such. Our policy used to
reflect practical accords and accom-
modations necessary for making this
a stable world, but it has turned in-
ward since the war ended, and it now
reflects our fears, whimsies, caprices,
domestic quarrels and our minority
pressure groups. Our policy, which
used to be something like a blue print,
has become something like a day
dream, resting vaguely on a dreamy
notion that if we play our cards right
we can somehow have our own way
almost everywhere” — Samuel Grafton
in New York Post.

* *

“We beat Japan, but the objective
of our policy — a free and united
China — has not yet been achieved.
Until it is, our victory over Japan is
a negative and bootless victory indeed.
This may not be a very comforting
thought to the bored and homesick
Marines at Tsingtao and Tientsin.
But a great power that does not intend
to go isolationist cannot afford to
abandon a cardinal policy out of post-
war boredom or whim”. — Editorial
in Life.

* *

“Let the ignoramuses yell ‘Santa
Claus’ as much as they like — let’s
get more food to liberated Western
Europe with some speed. Alter all,
it’s to our own self-interest to feed the

--- Page 41 ---
starving and to prevent chaos, for it
would cost us more later if we didn’t
act now”. — Des Moines Register.

* *

“Crucial as Europe’s fate appears
at the moment, it would be foolish to
expect this throbbing continent to suc-
cumb. Energetic, industrious, rugged,
it has survived such immense tragedies
as the Black Death, the Thirty Years
War and endless struggles against the
ravages of famine, disease and war in
every century. The struggle for survival
is going on. But that does not mean
that many thousands of Europeans will
not die of hunger, disease and cold this
winter, and that hundreds of thousands
more will not hover on the brink of
sad disaster by the time the first peace

time Christmas arrives” — C. L. Sulz-
berger in New York Times Magazine.
* *

“The decision to divide both Ger-
many and Austria into four governing
areas has made the administration of
Germany difficult, but for Austria it
may mean starvation and death by
freezing for thousands this winter.
Carving the country into four parts has
presented economic problems which
are insoluble without changes in the
administrative set-up. The American
failure to declare a clear policy in line
with previous propaganda was a severe
blow to the hopes of anti-nazi ele-
ments and also to our prestige with
the general population, But more
serious was our failure to make proper
use of the vocal anti-nazis. Disillusion-
ment with nazism is still -great in
Austria, but without encouragement it

cannot last indefinitely’, — Edward
Mosh in The New Republic.
* *
“One cannot talk with observant

Americans lately returned from Ger-
many without finding them in striking

38

agreement that our occupation policy
has not yet produced the good results
which had been hoped for. They do not
complain about the denazification pol-
icy itself, but they hold that here
in America among most vocal elements
there has been such passionate con-
cern over full denazification that other
considerations have been forgotten”.
Mark Watson in The Baltimore Sun.

* *

“There are two great problems of
Allied control in Germany. First, to
rule Germany long enough and wisely
enough that it will never again be able
to make war against the rest of the
world... The second Allied problem
is simply that of learning to work
together. If we succeed here, we'll
succeed elsewhere. My own impres-
sion is that, considering our great
differences, we’re getting along pretty
well”. William Shirer in CBS broadcast.

* *

“Today, the military empires of Ja-
pan and Germany are in ruins, and
neither is particularly likely to trouble
the peace of the world again. The
former can do so only if the Govern-
ment of the United States fails in its
duty toward its own citizens and
mankind by doing what President
Truman is plainly resolved to prevent —
allowing its vanquished Pacific chal-
lenger to build up strength for a war
of revenge. Germany, after two
disastrous wars, is so drained of man-
power, vitality and health that it is very
doubtful whether she can ever again
be a serious menace to human se-
curity. Only in one event could she
hope to recover the power she has so
fatally abused. That would be in the
event of a quarrel between Britain and
Russia, today the twin guardians of
European peace.” Arthur Bryant in The
Illustrated London News.

--- Page 42 ---
Voices of Cxperience

MIUTARY GOVERNMENT

A.

Ex-POW Imparts

Principles of Democracy 3X

The services of a German ex-pris-
oner of war, a graduate of the spe-
cial U.S. Army School at FortGetty,
Rhode Island, in imparting the
principles of democracy and recruiting
candidates for civic positions, have
been utilized to good advantage by
Det. G-28 in LK Heilbronn.

The former POW, Werner Finkel,
received a course in Military Govern-
ment, with emphasis on American and
world history and the principles of de-
mocracy, at Fort Getty.

Finkel walked into the detachment
headquarters early in October, wear-
ing an over-size, dirty Wehrmacht uni-
form, clutching his certificate from
Fort Getty. His experience in civil life
had been as a justice investigator at
Worms. He is 29 years old, and had
been in the army six and one-half
years, the last two as a PW in the
United States. Finkel was given some
clothes and put to work as an investi-
gator in the detachment’s legal depart-
ment.

When plans were formulated for
turning over the functional operations
of Heilbronn to the Stadtkreis and
Landkreis officials, meetings were held
with groups of leading citizens, and
they. were urged to. assume their share
of responsibility in conducting the af-
fairs of the community. At one. of
these meetings, Finkel spoke on his
experiences at the Fort Getty school
and discussed the general. situation

39

A German graduate of U.S. Army
school at Fort Getty helps Det.
G-28, LK Heilbronn, recruit ca-
pable men for civic posts.

prevailing in Germany. His talk was
well received and prompted a number
of comments.

Other talks on democracy were given
by Military Government officers and
the Landrat as well as two or three
members of the audience when the
meeting was thrown open.

The over-all results have been satis-
factory. Various members of these
audiences are now actively working for
the Stadtkreis or Landkreis govern-
ments, and plans are under way to
spread this orientation course in democ-
racy to every Gemeinde. In addition
to producing more civil officials, it also
should be useful in providing a back-
ground for the coming elections.

PETTY CRIMES CUT

Nightly patrols of two policemen in
each village and a motorcycle patrol
of the Kreis is credited with cutting
down petty crimes in Regierungsbezirk
Niederbayern-Oberpfalz.

Since the initiation of these patrols,
there has been a 50 per cent decrease
in reported lawless acts such as thefts,
curfew regulations, etc.

--- Page 43 ---
(Personnel Data

QUALIFICATIONS jor CIVILIAN Joos

Personnel qualifications for civilian jobs at Regional level of Military Government
are described in these briefs. Qualifications for additional posts open to Military
Government personnel will be published in forthcoming issues of The BULLETIN.

HEAD OF MANPOWER FUNCTION —
CAF 14

(Base Salary Plus Overseas —
$8,969)

Must have broad experience in all
problems involving the employment and
organization of labor and demonstrat-
ed capabilities in securing the follow-
ing of desired policies by methods
other than outright force, although
possessing discretion and judgment
enabling the application of available
force where necessary. Must thorough-
ly understand the former German
system of labor controls and be able
to adapt the existing machinery to the
attainment of the revolutionary develop-
ments sought by Military Government
in this field. He will be responsible for
the purging and reindoctrination of the
whole structure of a Land Labor Min-
istry, including social insurance and
housing units and related labor banks,
while at the same time maintaining
a steady supply of labor to essential
enterprises and the occupation forces
without inflation of wage ceilings. He
must be able to co-ordinate with all
other functional heads in matters of
labor priorities and welfare. He must
be capable of exercising ultimate judi-
¢ial authority in questions arising be-
tween the agencies under his control
and the people affected by their de-
cisions.

40

HEAD OF LABOR RELATIONS AND
STANDARDS SECTION — CAF 13
(Base Salary Plus Overseas — $7,787)

Must have technical experience in
labor organizations and governmental
activities concerned specifically with

labor relations controls. Will be
specifically responsible for the
reorganization and supervision of

wage boards and governmental bodies
required in this field of the manpower
function and for the supervision of
labor unions and works councils to in-
sure fair selection methods of represen-
tative personnel and guard against im-
proper influences. Must possess ex-
pert knowledge of labor legislation and
conditions and obvious maturity of
mind which will command such respect
in connection with arbitration of
disputes as to make military coercion
unnecessary. Must possess ability to
co-ordinate with related functions and
act as staff advisor to his chief on
technical matters within the scope of
his section.

HEAD OF LABOR SUPPLY
SECTION — CAF 13

(Base Salary Plus Overseas — $7,787)

Will be specifically charged with
responsibility for that part of the man-
power function which concerns em-
ployment offices, both governmental
and industrial, with determination and
enforcement of labor priorities, the
implementing of the program of pre-

--- Page 44 ---
ference for Allied nationals and dis-
crimination against ardent Nazis, tech-
nical analyses and reports as to labor
supply and demand, and assistance to
using services in labor procurement.
In addition to technical knowledge
covering the field, must have ability to
investigate and decide cases of alleged
discrimination and, in co-ordination
with the Labor Standards Section,
review generally the wage and hour
structure and make appropriate re-
commendations.

HEAD OF SOCIAL INSURANCE
SECTION — CAF 13

(Base Salary Plus Overseas — $ 7,787)

Has a broad and highly technical
responsibility in the reorganization and
supervision of the vast system of
workmen’s compensation, unemploy-
ment compensation, pensions, health
insurance, and special group arrange-
ments, and the governmental agencies
which administer it. Must be able to
analyze and correct the maze of over-
lapping decrees and legislation, and,
in co-ordination with Property Control,
Legal, Public Welfare and Finance
Functions, determine proper fund
segregation procedures and adequate
reporting methods. Must be able to
act judicially in cases of alleged dis-
crimination in application of the
system, and to reorganize and super-
vise administrative tribunals in the
field. As a staff officer, must be ca-
pable of interpreting reports in terms
of effects upon the general economy in
buying power, income trends, taxes,
ete.

HEAD OF HOUSING SECTION
— CAF 13
(Base Salary Plus Overseas — $7,787)
Must be qualified by experience to
supervise the difficult and vital
questions arising with the allocation
and use of existing housing facilities
and the constructions and repair of

Al

emergency units. Will supervise allo-
cation of materials, and such agencies
as those billeting officers (military and
civilian), housing authorities, building
police, private construction contractors
and real estate dealers. Must enforce
compulsory billeting and housing
priorities for preferred groups. Must
formulate recommendations on over-all
programs, including city planning and
reconstruction.

YOUTH ACTIVITIES SPECIALIST —
CAF-13
(Base pay plus overseas —
$ 7,787.50)

Educational and experience back-
ground will provide applicants with
a broad background in the administra-
tion of leisure-time activities of youth,
and knowledge of and/or experience
with Boy Scouts, Camp Fire Girls,
Youth Hostels, hiking, singing, athletic
and cultural clubs, etc., is indicated.
Will be able to detect infiltration of
nationalistic elements with a minimum
of recourse to informants. Will be
aware of all resources for youth agen-
cies and know how to recover those
monopolized by Nazi youth. Must have
demonstrated capacity to plan all
youth programs with a view to direct-
ing youth attitudes in democratic and
cosmopolitan channels.

TO TECHNICAL SERGEANT
S/Sgt. Harold Authenreith, 3d M.G. Regt.

TO STAFF SERGEANT
Tec.4 Charles P.Wyndham, 3dM.G Regt.
Tec.4 Mark B. Morris, 83d M.G. Ret.
Tec.4 Gerhard O. Gunther, 3dM.G Ret.
Tee.4 Charles Elder, 3d M.G. Regt.

--- Page 45 ---
Tec.4 Paul Schupbach, 3d M.G. Regt.

Tee.4 Irving Bennett, 3d M.G. Regt.

Tec.4 Robert E.Mahood, 3dM.G. Regt.

Sgt. Wallis Clarke, 3d M.G. Regt.
TO TECHNICIAN THIRD GRADE

Tec.4 Tony Giuliano, 3d M.G. Regt.

TO SERGEANT

Tec.5 Daniel M.Williams, 3d M.G. Ret.
Tec.5 Henry Meininger, 3d M.G. Regt.
Tec.5 Alfred E. Hanson, 3d M.G. Regt.

Cpl. George Philips, 3d M.G. Regt.

TO TECHNICIAN FOURTH GRADE

Tee.5 Adolf J. Rosales, 3d M.G. Regt.

Tec.5 Raymond J. Kompf, 3d M.G. Regt.

42

Tec.5 Carl A.Seydewitz, 3dM.G. Regt.
Tec.5 Louis F. Foster, 3d M.G. Ret.
Tec.5 C.W.Ramsey, 3d M.G. Regt.
Cpl. Guido Facilla, 3d M.G. Regt.

TO CORPORAL
Pfc. William J. Kemerer, 3d M.G. Regt.

TO TECHNICIAN FIFTH GRADE
Pfc. Blaine H. Sachtjen, 3d M.G. Ret.
Pfc. Marino Dimengo, 3d M.G. Regt.
Pfc. Maynord E. Sticht, 3d M.G. Regt.
Pfc. Edward G. Morley, 3d M.G. Regt.
Pvt. Sebastian N. LoGrasso, 3d M.G Ret.
Pvt. Frank E. Harbach, 3d M.G. Regt.

--- Page 46 ---
Station List

Military Government Elements

OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR
UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER
Office of

Mil Gove for

Germany (U.S.) Berlin

Office of

Mil Govt (U.S. Zone) Frankfurt

WESTERN MILITARY DISTRICT

Seventh U.S. Army
Office of
Mil Govt
(Western
District)

Heidelberg Western Military District

2d Mil Govt Regiment

(APO 758)

Hq 2d Mil Govt Regt Heidelberg
Sv Co Oberursel
2d MG Med Det Heidelberg

NORTH BADEN-WURTTEMBERG
E-1 Stuttgart North Baden- Wiirttemberg
Hg 1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Stuttgart
Hq & Sv Co 1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Stuttgart
Mobile Maint Plat., Hq & Sv Co

1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Zuffenhausen

Wiirttemberg
E-1 Stuttgart Warttemberg
F-10 Stuttgart SK Stuttgart
Flt Ulm SK-LK Ulm
G-20 Aalen LK Aalen
G-21 Béblingen LK Boblingen
G-22 Crailsheim LK Crailsheim
G-23 Esslingen LK Esslingen.
G-24 Gmind LK Gmiind
G-25 Géppingen LK Géppingen
G-26 Schwibfsch Hall LK Hall 8
G-27 Heidenheim LK Heidenheim
G-28 Heilbronn LK Heilbronn
G-29 Ludwigsburg LK Ludwigsburg
G-30 Waiblingen LK Waiblingen
H-50 Backnang LK Backnang
H-51 Heilbronn SK Heilbronn
H-52 Kanzelsau LK Kanzelsau
H-53 Leonherg LK Leonber;
H-54 Bad Mergentheim LK Mergentheim
H-55 Nartingen LK Nirtingen
H-56 Ohringen LK _Ohringen
H-57 Ulm Baden-Wiirttemberg

H-58 Vaihingen LK Vaihingen

Landesbezirk North Baden

Co E Durlach
E-7 Karlsruhe
F-16 Mannheim
G-43 Heidelberg
G-46 Pforzheim
G-47 Karlsruhe

Landeshezirk
North Baden
SK-LK Mannheim
SK-LK Heidelberg
SK-LK Pforzheim
SK-LK Karlsruhe

43

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay

Maj Gen C L Adcock

Col M O Edwards

Lt Col N F Hines
1st Lt R A Madden
Lt Col W H Riheldaffer

Col W W Dawson
Lt Wm E Snodgrass
1st Lt. E Thompson

Col W W Dawson
Lt Col C L Jackson
Lt Col I. L. Harlow
Maj J K Owen
Capt W A Becker
Lt Col R L Rogers
Lt Col J I Taylor
Capt J N Krajnak
Maj G W Ford

Maj W T Neel

Maj B V Bloom
Lt Col H M Montgomery
Capt H K Manson
Maj H W Freeman
Maj G D Burchell
Maj M L Hoover
Capt W L Straus
Cpt R S Deetz
Capt S L Haber
Maj S A Warren
1st Lt M Korson

Lt Col J M Gregory
Capt J G Cox

1st Lt R T Lynch
Col C Lisle

Lt Col R S Smith
Lt Col G P Kratz
1st Lt N. Semaschko
Maj M S Pullen

--- Page 47 ---
OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER

H-87 Bruchsal LK Bruchsal Capt G T Daughters

H-88 Feudenheim Warehouse Opn Maj H E Kring

H-89 Buchen LK Buchen Maj J A McGuinness

H-90 Mosbach LK Mosbach Maj N O Moore

H-91 Tauberbischofsheim LK Tauberbischo/shcim Capt J F Moyer

H-92 Sinsheim LK Sinsheim Capt G O Withey

1-137 Edingen Warehouse Opn Ca re R L Shadwick

LAND GREATER HESSEN

E-5 Wiesbaden Land Great Ilesse
Hq 2d Mil Gvt Bn (Sep) Wiesbaden
Hq & Sv Co 2d Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Wiesbaden
Mobile Maint. Plat., Hq & Sv Co
2d Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Wetzlar

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

E-5 Wiesbaden RB Wiesbaden
E-6 Frankfurt SK Frankfurt
F-15 Wiesbaden SK Wiesbaden
G-41 Wetzlar LK Wetzlar
H-77 Dillenburg LK Dillkreis &
LK Biedenkopf
H-78 Gelnhausen LK Gelnhausen &
LK Schliichtern
H-79 Hanau SK-LK Hanau
H-80 Limburg LK Limburg &
LK Oberlahn
H-82 Bad Homburg LK Obertaunus &
LK Usingen
H-81 Hofheim LK Maintaunus
H-83 Riidesheim LK Rheingau &

LK Untertaunus

Regierungsbezirk Kassel
Co C Kirchhain

E-4 Kassel RB Kassel
F-14 Kassel SK-LK Kassel &
LK Wolfhagen
G-38 Fritzlar LK Fritzlar-Homberg &
LK Ziegenhain
G-39 Marburg SK-LK Marburg
G-40 Fulda SK-LK Fulda & LK Hiinfeld
G-48 Korbach LK Waldeck & LK Frankenberg
H-65 Eschwe; LK Eschwe,
H-67 Hersfel LK Hersfel
H-68 Hofgeismar LK Hofgeismar
H-70 Melsungen LK Melsungen &
LK Rotenburg
H-72 Kassel Warehouse Opn
H-73 Witzenhausen LK Witzenhausen
ML-1 (Sa) Kassel Liaison

Regierungsbezirk Hessen

E-3 Darmstadt RB Hessen
F-12 Darmstadt SK-LK Darmstadt &
LK Gross Gerau
F-13 Offenbach SK-LK Offenbach
G-31 Bensheim LK Bergstrasse & LK Erbach
G-32 Biidingen LK Bidingen
G-33 Dieburg LK Dieburg
G-34 Friedberg LK Friedberg
G-35 Giessen SK-LK Giessen
H-62 Lauterbach LK Lauterbech & LK Alsfeld
BREMEN
E2C2 Bremen Bremen Sub-District
G1C2 Wesermiinde SK-LK Wesermiinde

44

Qol J R Newman
Col J R Newman
Capt T H Candon

Capt B Sturdevan

Col J R Newman
Lt Col R K Phelps
Lt Col F A Sansome
Lt Col E M Lee

Maj D B Bernstein

Maj M E Chotas
Maj T Turner Jr

Capt E F Duffy

Capt J C Nelson
Capt F H Percy

Maj J G Gavin

‘1st Lt J F Owen
Lt Col A Skarry
Lt Col R Bard

Maj R A Gish

Lt Col T A Brown
Maj E S Dickman
Maj J R Chambliss
Capt A W Moore
Capt G S Iredell
Capt S B Borda

Maj T T Turnbull Jr.

Capt J R Newell
Capt W_ E Getman
Maj F C Eggers

Lt Col W T Burt
Lt Col L G Kelly

Lt Col W A Snow
Maj A C Leggatt
Maj L S LaPrade
May E T Cusiek
Maj R J Willard
Capt J S Chapin
Capt H Nickelsberg

Lt Col B C Welker
Tt Gol L S Diggs

--- Page 48 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Office of
Mil Govt for
Bavaria. = Munich

Hq 3d Mil Govt Regt Augsburg
Hq Co Augsburg

Sv Co Augsburg

1st Maint Plat Augsburg

2d Maint Plat Uttenreuth

3d Maint Plat Straubing
R&T G Augsburg

3d MG Med Det Munich

3d MG Med Sec Augsburg

BAVARIA

Office of
Mil Govt

for Bavaria Munich

Regierungsbezirk Mainiranken

Co A Ochsenfurt
E-202 Warzburg
F-210  Warzburg
G-220 Aschaffenburg
G-221 Schweinfurt
H-250 Bad Kissingen
H-251 Kitzingen
1-330 Alzenau

1-331 Brackenau
1-332 Ebern

1-333 Gemiinden |
1-334 Gerolzhofen
1-335 Hammelburg
1-336 Hassfurt
1-337 Hofheim
Lp ae
1-339 ni; fen
1-340 Tent
1-341 Marktheidenfeld
1-342 Mellrichstadt
1-343 Miltenber;
1-344 Neustadt Saale
1-345 Obernburg
1-346 Ochsenfurt

EASTERN MILITARY DISTRICT

Third U. S. Army

Eastern Military District

3d Mil Govt Regt
(APO 403)

Bavaria

RB Mainfranken
SK-LK Warzburg
SK-LK Aschaffenburg
SK-LK Schweinfurt
LK Kissingen

LK Kitzingen

LK Alzenau

LK Brackenau

LK Ebern

LK Geminden

LK Gerolzhofen

LK Hammelburg
LK Hassfurt

LK Hofheim

LK Karlstadt

LK Kénigshofen
LK Lohr

LK Marktheidenfeld
LK Mellrichstadt
LK Miltenberg

LK Neustadt a. d. Saale
LK Obernburg

LK Ochsenfurt

Regierungsbezirk Ober’ & Mittelfranken

Co C Ansbach
E-203 Ansbach
F-211 Narnberg
G-228 Ansbach
G-229 Farth

H-261 Dinkelsbahl
H-262 Eichstadt
H-263 Feuchtwangen
H-264 Gunzenhausen
H-265 Hersbruck
H-266 Hilpoltstein

RB Ober and Mittelfranken
SK-LK Narnberg

SK-LK Ansbach

SK-LK Farth

LK Dinkelsbahl

LK Eichstadt

LK Feuchtwangen

LK Gunzenhausen

LK Hersbruck

LK Hilpoltstein

45

Brig Gen W. J. Maller

Lt Col F W Sutton
Capt Wm Irwin
Capt J P Cline
Capt J P Cline

1st Lt C Cas

Ist Lt C T Finbody
Capt T J May

Lt Col C Shields
Maj M J Kanner

Brig Gen W J Muller

1st Lt H Hull
Lt Col M E Henderson
Lt Col J B Bradford

May C M Emerick
Lt ‘Col J B Thomson
Capt M A Potter
Cab J B Lynn

Maj E E Shovea

Maj H_ B Clark Jr
1st Lt R W Jones
Capt K N Galloway
Capt J M Simon
Maj L_ G Emery
Capt T F Griffen
Capt W Hitt

Capt W_E Brayden
Capt A W Peterson
Capt Elmer E Kelly
Maj M B Voorhees
Lt L K Owens
Capt D J Huffman
Capt E F Warnke
Maj B H Logan
Capt H A Storm

ma
SI
aa
=

re Col W_R Whitaker Jr.

Maj J D Cofer

Lt Ch J W Hall

Maj W T Stoats

Capt J M Hodges Jr.

Maj H W Zurn

Mal HR. Glaser

Maj H T Lund

--- Page 49 ---
OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER
H-267 Weissenburg LK Weissenburg Lt Col W S Bailet Jr.
H-268 Rothenburg LK Rothenburg Maj R C Anderson
H-269 Schwabach LK Schwabach Maj R H Stringer
H-270 Scheinfeld LK Scheinfeld Maj H C Kaufimann
H-271 Windsheim LK Uffenheim Maj S Klein
H-272 Lauf LK Lauf Maj E N Humphrey
H-273 Neustadt a. d. Aisch LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch Maj F K Hinchey
Co B Bamberg 2d Lt B_ Lyons
G-222 Bamberg SK-LK Bamberg Maj J A Watkins
G-223 Bayreuth SK-LK Bayreuth Lt Col C J Reilly
G-224 Erlangen LK Erlangen Capt E H Dye
G-225 Coburg SK-LK Coburg Lt Col H Lockland
G-226 Kronach LK Kronach Maj H I Woodall Jr.
G-227 Hof SK-LK Hof Maj A R Giroux
G-247 Lichtenfels LK Lichtenfels Lt Col J R Case
H-252 Ebermannstadt LK Ebermannstadt 1st Lt J J Bianchi
H-253 Hochstadt LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch Maj R G Hanford
H-254 Kulmbach LK Kulmbach Lt Col P B Lamson
H-255 Pegnitz LK Pegnitz Maj M F Skinner
H-256 Munchberg LK Munchberg May A C Abbott
H-258 Rehau LK Rehau Maj R H Dodds
H-259 Wunseidel LK Wunseidel Maj D H Alexander
H-260 Forcheim LK Forcheim Lt Col F Robie
1-347 Naila LK Naila Capt H W Newell
1-348 Stadtsteinach LK Stadtsteinach 1st Lt H F Casademont

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern & Oberpfalz

Co D
E-204
F-212
G-230

G-244
11-274
H-275
H-276
H-277
H-278
H-279
1-349
1-350
1-351
1-352
1-353
1-354
1-355
1-356
1-357
1-358
Co
G-243
G-245
G-246
11-301
11-302
H-303
11-304
H-305
11-306
H-307
11-308,
11-309
H-310
1-375
1-377
1-378

Regensburg
Regensburg
Regensburg
Weiden

. Amberg

Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunbur;
Eschenbach
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldminchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Regensburg
Passau
Landshut
Straubing
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsiburg
Freyung
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach

RB Niederbayern & Oberpfalz
SK-LK Regensburg

SK Weiden &

LK Neustadt a. d. Wald
SK-LK Amberg

LK Cham

LK Burglengenfeld

LK Parsberg

LK Tirschenreuth

LK Neunburg vorm Wald
LK Eschenbach i. d. Opf.
LK Kemnath

LK Nabburg

LK Oberviechtach

LK Riedenberg

LK Vohenstrauss

LK Roding

LK Waldminchen

LK Beilngries

LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg

SK-LK Passau
SK-LK Landshut
SK-LK Straubing
LK Deggendorf
LK Eggenfelden
LK Grafenau

LK Kelheim

LK Landau a. d. Isar
LK Pfarrkirchen
LK Regen

LK Vilshofen

LK Vilsiburg

LK Wolfstein
LK Bogen

LK Dingolfing
LK Griesbach

46

1st Lt H L Gross
Lt Col Hasting
Maj Boyd

Maj J C Robertson Jr.
Maj Mattox

Maj Wilson

Capt E Fichter
Capt Bandy

Maj F P Murray
Capt Llimic

Capt W R Baylies
Lt Quinlan

Maj G Doyle

Capt R A Berry
Capt C V Hansen
Capt S Lesneski
Capt C R Bucheit
Capt J £& Iludson
Capt J J Mallon

1st Lt W N Blanton
Capt A J Dann

1st Lt W S Mather
Maj E Cofran

Maj H J Mrachek
Maj Li T Olsen
Capt L C Smallenberger
Maj E W Manning
Capt S Perlman
Capt O DeBogdan
Capt McCall

Capt W D Baird
Capt A _R Sphar
Capt W J Fitzpatrick
Capt J W Fleshman
Capt R W Douglass
Capt A G Albert
Capt E M Martocei
Capt A S Gallant

--- Page 50 ---
OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER
1-379 Kétzting LK Kotzting 1st Lt A Smolens
1-380 Mainburg LK Mainburg Maj W Wickersham
1-381 Mallersdorf LK Mallersdorf Capt S R Jacobs
1-382 Rottenburg LK Rottenburg ‘Ast Lt E A Russo
1-383 Viechtach LK Viechtach Capt A L Corcelius
1-385 Wegscheid LK Wegscheid Capt H Walter

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Co F Munich

E-205 Munich

F-213 Munich

G-236 Partenkirchen
G-237 Ingolstadt
G-238 Munich

H-286 Farstenfeldbruck
H-287 Landsherg
H-288 Pfaffenhofen
H-289 Starnberg
H-290 Weilheim
H-291 Wolfratshausen
1-362 Aichach

‘1-364 Schrobenhausen
1-367 Dachau

1-368 Schéngau

Co E Wasserburg
G-231 Freising

G-232 Miesbach
G-233 Traunstein
G-234 Altétting
G-235 Rosenheim
H-280 Erding

H-281 Laufen

H-282 Muhldorf
H-283 Wasserburg
H-284 Bad Télz .
H-285 Aibling

H-311 Berchtesgaden
1-361 Ebersberg

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Co G Ziemetshausen
E-206 Augsburg
F-214 Augsburg
G-239 Dillingen
G-240 Weissenhorn
G-241 Sonthofen
G-242 Kempten
H-292 Donauwirth
H-293 Giinzherg
H-294 Markt Oberdorf
H-295 Memmingen
H-296 Mindelheim
H-297 Neuberg
H-298 Nérdlingen
H-299 Fassen

H-300 Krumbach
1-369 Tllertissen
1-370 Kaufbeuren
1-372 Wertingen
1-373 Friedberg
1-374 Schwabmiinchen

RB Oberbayern
SK-LS Munich

LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen
SK-LK Ingolstadt
LK Munich

LK Farstenfeldbriick
LK Landsherg

LK Pfaffenhofen
LK Starnberg

LK Weilheim

LK Wolfratshausen
LK Aichach

LK Schrobenhausen
LK Dachau

LK Schéngau

LK Freising

LK Mieshach

LK Traunstein
LK Altétting
SK-LK Rosenheim
LK FErding

LK Laufen

LK Mahldorf

LK Wasserburg
LK Talz

LK Aibling

LK Berchtesgaden
LK Ebersberg

RB Schwaben
SK-LK Augsburg
LK Dillingen

LK Neu Ulm

LK Sonthofen
SK-LK Kempten
LK Donauwérth
LK Ginzberg

LK Markt Oberdorf
LK Memmingen
LK Mindelheim

LK Neuberg a. d. Donau
LK Nérd*ingen

LK Fissen

LK Krumhach

LK Tllertissen

LK Kaufbeuren

LK Wertingen

LK Friedberg

LK Schwabmiinchen

47

1st Lt W M Ellis
Lt Col J W Hensel
Lt Col E Keller Jr
Lt Co C H Heyl
Maj L H Norins
Maj M T Mawrence
Capt J J McBride
Maj C A Rein

Maj C A Sloat
Maj M W Nitz
Capt R J O'Dowd
Maj C H Bischoff
Capt L R Day
Maj R G Hill Jr
Capt V A Burke
Maj C E Carlsen
Capt D E Brown
Maj A G Snow
Maj L L Haupt
Maj F L Tracy
Maj R L Montague
Maj R G MacDonald
Capt H J Bierman
Maj S I. Jones Jr
Capt D S Root

Lt Klinder

Lt Col J Letteriello
Maj E J Newmeyer
Maj M E DiPietro
Maj G E Horwarth

Capt O Meirhenry
‘Lt Col R L Hiles
Lt Col R A Norton
Maj Darragh

Capt J M Latimer
Capt Horrell

Capt B M Ziegler
Capt Proper

Capt M Glossop
Capt J O Renalds
Maj R F Wagner
Maj E C Bunker
Capt W H Oswalt
Capt S H Brown
Capt Lubin

Capt C E Witney
Capt F E Kettunen
Maj E M Ross
Capt R E Hale
Capt J G Van Oot
Capt L E Smith Jr

--- Page 51 ---
OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR
UNIT — LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER
U.S. SECTOR;BERLIN DISTRICT
Office of
Mil Govt
(U.S. Sector
Berlin) Berlin U.S. Sector, Berlin District Col F 1. Howley

(APO 755)

48

--- Page 52 ---
EASTERN MILITARY DISTRICT

BAVARIA
23 OCTOBER 1945

COBURG Ar
Soy ig an KRONACH _,
{A \ sk {STAD S,

the =e Verowes Boer es

! ae nds) me

ato KEN

eaMeRe ere Es Ss NATH, toe
DTA a ee ee 4 CZECHOSLOVAKIA
MILTENBERG A HOCHST: Sag

VOHEN:

Ry sees oe a! eT y .

- STRAUSS
AD Aiste! LAUF, a J
UFFENHEIM 4 - amoend

age i FURTH ar ze)

oT Jvsseune w

BURG fv ee can cre
JBURGLEN~'
rey ye aa eee Pom AE) one ane
FEUCHTWANGEN i RODING > KOTZTING
mired al she Gok dy
Pee ones gues issenS =" sey, xX nae a
MY THAUSEN| iaiye « eae ~~ BoGEN cai
ny exe pes P era
NORD- E1GHS TATY, aac lioal Sena
RED —_-REGIERUNGSBEZIRKE LINGENS powaus st oa este = veneman ULE
BLACK — LANOKREISE AND STAOTKREISE eo" WORTH el ae
Kee mol Sa ce  passav yy
Sones) Pea DWEGS:
cannery OLFING OS pga) CHEID,
2 FEL- we
N.SBI BURG el

FREISING
» cee GRIESBA

iy
4 J 8 KIRCHEN.
MUHLOORF: rom > 2
= ALTOTTING)
roa 2
ae rib
ead we STARN:

GEN te “icon a nh
ares Boe Moca

= L kien ar ease re
‘ Gives STEIN
NE KEMBTEN Leeds a ee ome bl

TOHL2
a wy Flssen > s re i SERCH
‘SONTHOFEN une TES-
oF PARTEN- \G ADE!
a KIRCHEN
if
° 10 ie} 30 40. so
% Pre : AUSTRIA STATISTICS SECTION

SEC GEN STAFF USFET

SOURCE ome Gam enancn

--- Page 53 ---
