--- Page 2 ---
NO. 27 — 2 FEBRUARY 1946

Military Government

Weekly
Information Bulletin

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U.S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
UNITED STATES ZONE, GERMANY
Greater Hesse, Wiirttemberg-Baden

HOFGEIS-
mar

eee

a Diclin 3 ae eed missti erzen
Saausene
‘ Jk AS Sipe
S Pa 2 —— SCHWEGE
) FRANKENBERG US mitzy ene ay
/ rn C, nOMBens :
( An OES Fnorchoune
Ss
Pierce oS

MAIN (NERSFELO

RUSSIAN

ZONE

FRENCH

LEGEND

—— REGIERUNGSBEZIFVE AND

——— LANDKREISE AND STADTKREISE :

,

if

(
/

TATISTICS SECTION

SOURCE OMG-R@! BRANCH C GEN STAFF USFET

--- Page 4 ---
NO. 27 — 2 FEBRUARY 1946

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
CONTENTS

PAGE
Military Government Directives . . .. . -...- .- 4
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY. 5
Denazification Policy Unified . 5
_ Proposed Denazification Program . 6
USFET Insignia... . 8
Reichspost — A Monopoly . 9
GENERAL.......... 2 2 1 eee 13
Sterner Justice for Gun-Toting Germans. . . . . 13
Uniform Information Policy. . . . . . . . . . 13
Leaders of the Unfinished Task . . . . .. . . 14
Rural Police Ce 16
Hiring ExPPWs 2. 7. 7 ww we ee ee 16
Emergency Furloughs ....... 2... ~. 16
GERMAN REACTIONS ......... . 17
Election Results Show Democratic Process Begins . . 17
PRESS COMMENTS ........-...2!1
Better Paid Army. . . . . . 1... 2... . 21
German Heavy Industry. . . . . .). . . . . 22
Occupation — Redeployment . .... . . . 22
Britain Turns to UNO. . . . . ©... 1. 23
Unification Bil 2 2 2. ee 88
Denazification Scepticism . - . . . . . . . . 23
More on Occupation. . . . . . 1... . . . 23
Station List 2. 2... 2... eee ee 24

--- Page 7 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT LETTERS AND
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED DURING THE WEEK

Repatriated German Prisoners of War Available for Employ-
ment by Military Government Detachment oF German
Authorities

Basic Policy for Information and Information Control Opera-
tions in Germany *

Military Government Regulations, Title 23, amended by add-
ing thereto Control Council Order No. 2, “Confiscation and
Surrender of Arms and Ammunition”

Financial Responsibility for German Broadcasting Operations
Emergency Return of Military Personnel to Zone of Interior
Rural Police

Insignia, Shoulder Sleeve .

Sentences by Military Government Courts in Cases Involving.
Possession of Firearms . a

7 January 1946
GEC-253.5

17 January 1946
AG 350.05 (CS)

18 January 1946
AG014.1 GEC-AGO

21 January 1946
AG 210.711 GAP-AGP

21 January 1946
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO

26 January 1946
GEC-EX 015
(MG Germany)

25 January 1946
GEC-EX 421.4

19 January 1946
AG 322.011 GEC-AGO

--- Page 8 ---
Hightights of Poticy

Denazification Policy Unified

New CC Directive: Emphasizes Strict Denazification in Commerce

and Industry, and Prescribes Identical Categories for All Four Zones

Two new developments have oc-
cured in denazification. The. first,
described on this page, is a four-
power directive, establishing the
class of persons and types of jobs
to be denazified throughout Ger-
many; the. second, described on
page 6, is a proposal, recommending .
the U.S. Zone procedure and action
to be taken against the. nazis. -

With the signing of Control Council
Directive Number 24, the Allies have fix-
ed a uniform denazification policy, applica-
ble in all four-zones. of Germany. The
directive embodies substantially the same
provisions now governing denazification
within the U.S. Zone. Its newly promul-
gated and discretionary removal and ex-
clusion categories are virtually identical

with those listed in the U.S. Zone 7 July
‘ directive. Moreover, no important changes
or modifications of existing policies will
be required as a result of the Control
Council Directive. ,

A major advantage of the new directive
is that a nazi, excluded from office or
employment by one Zone Commander,
automatically falls within the mandatory
removal and exclusion categories affect-
ing all zones. In addition, the directive
strengthens -denazification by underscor-
ing the policy that near relatives of prom-
inent nazis should not be employed.

The: new directive calls. for a strong
denazification policy in business. “It in-

sists that the denazification of industry
be carried out with the utmost vigor, and
that the small size of an enterprise shall
be no reason for failure to denazify. Once
a person is “denazified” in industry he
is to be discharged forthwith. He is to
have no influence, no direct or indirect
participation in the concern with which
he was associated.

Nazis are to ‘be replaced by persons
who, by their political and moral quali-
ties, are deemed capable of assisting in
developing genuine democratic institu-
tions in Germany. It is essential, the di-
rective continues, that the head executive
German officials at the levels of Provinz,
Regierungsbezirk and Kreis be confirmed
anti-nazis, even though this entails the
employment of persons less well quali-
fied to discharge their administrative
duties.

Concerning discretionary removals, the
directive states that in cases of doubt
persons are not to be employed or left
in office if others are available who are
politically more reliable, although perhaps
administratively somewhat less qualified.
‘Wherever possible, persons in discre-
tionary eategories will be given posts of
minor responsibility only, until they have
proved themselves. politically -reliable..

--- Page 9 ---
Proposed Denazification Program

For the U.S. Zone

The U.S. Denazification Policy Board,

composed of the directors of five Divi-
sions of the Office of Military Govern-
ment for Germany (U.S.), and the Po-
litical Adviser, has proposed a long-range
program for the punishment of major nazis
and the eventual rehabilitation of min-
or nazis within the democratic com-
munity. The Board’s recommendations,
submitted for consideration to Lieutenant
General Lucius D. Clay, Deputy Military
Governor, set forth a new procedure to
carry out the denazification policy of the
Control Council Directive.

If adopted, this proposal will deter-
mine the political and economic status of
nazis eliminated from office. It will set
up a system of penalties, forfeitures and
sanctions to be imposed upon nazis in
accordance with their degree of culpa-
bility. On the basis of this system, the
Board seeks to avoid arbitrary classifica-
tion by categories and to give individual
treatment to cases, thereby allowing
greater discrimination.

It should be realized by MG personnel
that the Board’s recommendations must
be approved in principle by General Clay
and General J. McNarney, the Theater
Commander, before detailed implementa-
tion can be undertaken between the Board,
representatives of Headquarters, USFET,
and the Minister Presidents.

PROPOSED PROCEDURE

Registration is the first step under the
recommended plan. This reg‘stration will
include all members of the nazi party or
affiliated organizations, all persons with-
in the mandatory removal categories of
the Control Council Directive, influential.

nazi supporters, par-

ticularly business-

men and _ industrialists,

and the more active mili-

tarists. In addition, five

or more Germans can file

a petition with the Special Prosecutor to
compel the registration of undercover
nazis who may have evaded this require-
ment. .

After registration, the cases of those
persons who are considered war criminals
will be referred to the United States
Chief of Council for War Crimes. All
others are to be placed in one of the
following four classifications:

Class I — Major Offenders (those who
took a leading part).

Class II — Activists, Militarists and
Profiteers (active participants or support-
ers, or recipients of exessive or unjust
profits).

Class III — Followers (those who,
though members, were never more than
nominal nazis).

Class IV — Non-offenders.

As a guide in making these classifica-
tions, the Board recommended that pre-
sumptive categories be prescribed for
“Major Offenders”, “Activists”, ‘“Mili-
tarists”, and “Profiteers”. These classi-
fications, while not conclusive, will cast
the burden upon the nazi to prove by
convincing evidence that a lower classi-
fication should be made in his case.
Another factor in assuring individual
treatment of cases is that the penalties,
forfeitures and disqualifications to be
imposed upon the Class I and II nazis
will vary in duration and type according
to the degree of guilt.

--- Page 10 ---
RECOMMENDED PUNISHMENTS

Among the recommended punishments
is the assignment for a specified period
to hard labor or tolabor camps within Ger-
many. This will be mandatory only for
Class I offenders. Other actions to be
taken against nazis include forfeiture of
property in excess of a specified sum;
prohibition for a fixed period from public
office or certain professions closely con-
nected with the formation of public
opinion; loss of civil service or pension
rights; prohibition for a fixed period
from owning or controlling business or
professional enterprises, or being em-
ployed at other than ordinary labor, and
communal labor for a specified period.

Mandatory punishments, however, will
not be required for Class III registrants,
although the German authorities, if they
deem it beneficial, may impose discretion-
ary penalties upon such nazis. In addi-
tion, nazi party members, even though
not in Class I or Class II, will not be
allowed, for example, to hold policy-
making positions in government or engage
in political activities except as approved
election codes permit them to vote.

ENFORCEMENT — GERMAN
RESPONSIBILITY

Responsibility for executing this pro-
gram, will be placed primarily upon the
Germans, who will therefore have to
establish special denazification machinery.
Each Land will have a Denazification
Minister who will appoint one or more
denazification tribunals for each Kreis,
with a Special Prosecutor for each Tri-
bunal. The Tribunal will consist of at
least three anti-nazi Germans. At Land
level the Minister of Denazification in
consultation with the Minister of Justice
will designate an Appellate Tribunal,
comprising at least three anti-nazi judges.

Investigation of each registrant is to
be made by the Special Prosecutor, and
important cases will be heard by the
Kreis Tribunal whose decision, in appro-

priate cases, can be appealed to an Ap-
pellate Tribunal. As an additional precau-
tion, the Minister of Denazification is
‘empowered to review any case or class
of cases. If the Minister believes any
classification to be too low, or penalty
too lenient, he can re-open the case, order
a re-hearing or take other appropriate
action.

MG SUPERVISION

Under this plan, the role of MG is one
of supervision. The Minister President
and the Denazification Minister will be
directly responsible to MG for effec-
tive and just denazification. MG control
will be exercised primarily at Land level
through directions to the Denazification
Minister and through approval of regula-
tions issued by the Minister under a Ger-
man denazification law, to be enacted in
each Land if the plan is approved.

While policy will be supervised at
Land level, the operation will be checked
at Kreis level by MG’s Special Branches
which are vital links in the new program.
MG will have to be kept continuously
informed of the workings of the Tri-
bunals and Prosecutors. It will, there-
fore, have to maintain an effective or-
ganization reaching down to the Kreis
level. The present Special Branch, oper-
ating under the direction of Public Safe-
ty, will be the supervising agency in
each Kreis. Because of this, Special
Branch and Denazification Field Inspec-
tion units will not be reduced if the plan
becomes effective. Their staffs, on the
contrary, may need strengthening.

TRANSITION PERIOD

In this connection, the Board envisag-
ed a 90-day transitional period during
which Special Branch would have to per-
form certain functions to accomplish the
turnover of denazification to the Ger-
mans. The main function will be screen-
ing of the German personnel who are
to administer denazification. This  in-

--- Page 11 ---
volves vetting the Ministers of Denazi-
fication, Special Prosecutors, members
of Kreis and Appellate Tribunals and the
principal members: of their staffs to as-
sure that only qualified officials are en-
trusted with this responsibility. German
officials will also need aid and advice
in setting up offices, training their em-
ployees and establishing proper proce-
dures. During this transitional period,
Special Branch will have to continue
screening Germans for important govern-
mental and private positions.

This turnover phase will allow Spe-
cial Branch to arrange for the orderly
transfer of backlogged denazification mat-
ters to German Tribunals and to advise
the tribunal of necessary priority in which
such cases should be considered. From
the experience gained in this transitional
Operation, Special Branch offices will be
able to determine their own supervisory
procedures for checking the work of the
Germans and the types of reports to be
required from the German authorities.

After this 90-day period, the functions
of Special Branch will include the screen-
ing of new officials and employes of Ger-
man denazification agencies; maintenance
of central nazi party records and in-
formational service to assist the German
denazification officials, and provision of
such further aid as is necessary.

Most important of all Special Branch
duties after the complete transfer of de-
nazification responsibility to the Ger-
mans will be the constant checking of
the operations of the Tribunals and Spe-
cial Prosecutors. This is to be ac-

complished by a thorough analysis of in-
dividual case records, statistical reports,
spot checks, investigations of denuncia-
tions and other complaints from the people
at large.

Only through this incessant vigilance
will MG be able to assure that denazifi-
cation is being carried out in accordance
with Control Council Directive Number
24. If necessary, MG can exercise its
reserved power to order, through the
Minister of Denazification, the re-open-
ing or review of any particular case in
which it feels justice has not been done.

USFET Insignia

The shoulder sleeve insignia worn
by members of Headquarters,
USFET, is also authorized for wear
by the military per-
sonnel of the Offices
of Military Gov-
ernment for  Ba-
varia, Greater Hesse,
Wirttemberg - Baden
and the elements thereof.

Directors of the designated Of-
fices of Military Government have
been instructed by Headquarters
USFET to insure that the members
of their commands wear only the
authorized patch on their left
shoulders and not those of any
previous commands to which they
may have been assigned or attached.

--- Page 12 ---
When a German in the pre-V-E Day
Reich, mailed a letter, or sent a telegram,
or used the phone, or listened to the
radio, or rode on a bus, he was probably
using one of the many services of the
vast network of organizations called the
German Reichspost. This huge auton-
omous organization had reached into the
vitals of nearly every means of communi-
cation.

To compare this organization with any
in the United States, the U.S. Post Of-
fice would have to incorporate into a

single government agency the telephone |

companies, the telegraph companies, a
majority of the radio network and com-
munication services, anda large part of the
bus services. It would also have to
provide an extensive banking and financ-
ial system for the public. If all this were
done the U.S. Post Office would approach
the complexity of the Reichspost.

ORGANIZATION

Direction and control of the Reichspost
was accomplished through the Ministry
of Posts in Berlin, headed by a Cabinet
Member who was usually a careerist in
the postal service. The Ministry per-
formed staff functions for regulating and
coordinating communications throughout
Greater Germany. The Reich was divided
into 38 areas known as Reichspost Dis-
tricts (Direktionen), each headed by a
president who was fully responsible for
the direction of all communications ser-
vices within his area, in conformity with
the regulations and instructions provided
by the Ministry. Interference from the

The German communications network, one of
the main vehicles for nazi propaganda and war
preparations, is now being reconstituted to serve
the people, within the limitations of the Potsdam
agreement,

Ministry was held to a minimum, thus
providing a highly decentralized admin-
istration and allowing the presidents to
adapt the services of the Reichspost to
the best advantage for the particular com-
munity it served.

PERSONNEL

All Reichspost employes, with the ex-
ception of some laborers and miscellane-
ous housekeeping personnel, are regular
government employees with an organiz-
ation very similar to the U. S. Civil
Service. The German Civil Service, how-
ever, occupies a much more important
place than corresponding services in
other countries. Its history goes back
some hundred years and it survived the
German Empire of Bismarck, the Weimar
Republic and functioned with a high de-
gree of success under the nazi regime.
Officials are sub-divided into two cate-
gories; the “career service” entry to
which is by competitive examination, and
the “political service” which requires no
examination. The latter category was fre-
quently used by the ‘nazis for inserting
party members into various positions in
the Reichspost. with the additional re-
quirement of a personal oath of allegiance
to Hitler. Because of the high technical
qualifications required of communications
personnel, the greater percentage of
the Reichspost employees, belonged
to the “career service.” Preference in
both categories was given to ex-military
personnel to.a much greater degree than
in the United States and other countries.
During the Weimar Republic, it was cus-

--- Page 13 ---
Tomary to employ all soldiers who had
served at least 12 years in the army com-
munications system. The nazis followed
a much more liberal policy of preference
for all ex-members of the armed forces
Kas a part of their plan to keep a reser-
voir of trained technicians available for
instant call to active service. In addition,
positions were often the reward for join-
ing the party and active support of party
policies. This practice is largely respon-
sible for the present shortage of personnel,
especially in the important administrative
and supervisory positions which were in-
fested with “political service” employees
appointed under nazi rule.

V-E DAY

On V-E Day the Reichpost was com-
pletely paralyzed. By order of the
Supreme Commander, Allied Expedition-
ary Forces, all civilian communications
were suspended throughout the occupied
areas. Years of intensive Allied air at-
tacks had destroyed large quantities of
equipment, buildings, transport and rec-
ords without which such an_ intricate
organization cannot operate. Employees
had been scattered and disorganized:
Many of them been prominent nazis who
feared retribution and remained in hiding
for many weeks. The Wehrmacht had
drawn heavily on technical personnel and
many had been killed or were prisoners
of war. The only communication channel
was a small group of Allied-operated
radio stations which were used primarily
for disseminating news and instructions
to the people. Even this means was lim-

ited by the destruction. of receiving sets
during the campaign.

PROGRESS IN RESTORATION AND
REHABILITATION

As the first step toward providing com-
mon communications policies throughout
occupied Germany, the Allied Communi-
cations and Posts Committee was estab-
lished in Berlin, under the Directorate
of Communications and Posts, a division
of the Allied Control Council. However,
until a Central Department of Communi-
cations and Posts is established the com-
munications in Germany will be admin-
istered separately by the four occupying
powers.

Of the 38 Reichspost Districts that
made up pre-war Germany, six are in the
US. Zone. Postal Telegraph and Tele-
phone officers were assigned to each dis-
trict to reorganize and direct the res-
toration of communications services. A
Communications Branch was established
in Frankfurt, as part of the Internal
Affairs and Communications Division,
OMG (US Zone), for the direction and
supervision of operations in the zone.
Directorates of Reichspost officials were
set up at each Reichspost District head-
quarters in organizations very similar to
the pre-war administration, and commun-
ications on a limited scaled wereresumed.

POSTAL SERVICES
Prior to the occupation, the Reichspost
operated an extensive postal service
system, which included all the features
of the U.S. Post Office Department, plus
many services not provided by our system.
Among these are the Postal Check and

57 MILLION
39 mittion ap
24 mittion a Ao =
4MiLLION — eH ler Cove Haw Cote

OCTOBER

SEPTEMBER

NOVEMBER

DECEMBER

Fig. 1. Volume of mail originating in US Zone in past four months.

10

--- Page 14 ---
Fig. 2. Increase in telephone rehabilitation in US Zone.

D5 THOUSAND

68 THOUSAND
42 THOUSAND

SEPTEMBER

OCTOBER

Transfer system, the collection of com-
mercial accounts and an extensive pneu-
matic tube delivery service in Berlin and
Munich. The Postal Check and Transfer
system is a banking service for the pay-
ment by cash from one account to
another, intended primarily for the use
of small businessmen and persons whose
means do not warrant a bank account. It
is widely used by commercial firms,
however, and had expanded to some
1,600,000 accounts by 1942. The postal
savings system was non-existent in Ger-
many priorto 1938, but after “Anschluss,”
the Austrian Post Office Savings Bank
was absorbed by the Reichspost and its
services extended to all parts of the
Reich. It operated as a non-profit service
paying a low rate of interest to avoid
competition with the banks, and offering
maximum security to the depositers. The
Reichspost also provided a money order
service similar to that used in the United
States. All financial services are now in
use in the U.S. Zone, on an intrazonal
basis, pending agreement by the four
occupying powers to extend facilities to
all zones.

OTHER SERVICES

In addition to letter service (ordinary,
registered, express and special delivery,
c.o.d., and money letters) the Reichspost
acts as a distributing agency for news-
papers, domestic and foreign, and period-
icals. Subscriptions are accepted at post
offices and deliveries made by post. The

11

116 THOUSAND

DECEMBER

post office does, not engage in buying and
selling, nor does it accept responsibility
for deliveries. However, cheaper postage
rates are offered and most publications
are handled in this manner : Some 9,700,000
newspapers were delivered in the U. S.
Zone during December 1945. Parcel post
is not being used extensively at the pre-
sent due to the limitations of transport
and personnel, but the volume is increas-
ing monthly with some 400,000 pieces
handled during December 1945. Interzonal
mail service to all occupied zones was
inaugurated in October 1945. It provided
for the distribution of postcards, letters
(ordinary and registered, up to 500 grams)
group articles up to 500 grams (pack-
ages subject to easy inspection containing
articles of similar nature, usually sam-
ples), commercial papers and correspon-
ence for the blind. The volume of mail
(excluding newspapers, periodicals and
parcel post) originating in the U.S.Zone
during the past four months is shown in
Fig. 1.

TELEPHONE SERVICE

German telephone service is also pro-
vided by the Reichspost and, in terms of
station equipment and personnel, is one
of the best in the world. It is estimated
that 85 percent of all installations were
automatized before the war. Limited long
distance dialing was available up a dist-
ance of 40 kilometers, and plans and ex-
periments had been made to provide di-

--- Page 15 ---
aling for long distance service throughout
Germany. Government ownership and di-
rection provided standarized equipment and
qualified employees, subsidized technical
research and encouraged a uniform dis-
tribution of networks. The relative use-
fulness of this service was reduced, how-
ever, by the German attitude that the
telephone is a luxury for the poor and
little effort was made toward distribu-
tion to the masses. This is perhaps the
leading factor in Germany’s low (eleventh
place) standing in telephones-per-capita
among the leading nations. Prior to the
war there were only 4,000,000 telephones
in service in Greater Germany (including
Austria and the Sudetenland) as comp-
ared to approximately 22,000,000 in the
United States. At present restoration of
telephone is restricted by the difficulty
encountered in replacing fixed plant equip-
ment destroyed during the Battle of Ger-
many. Progress is also hampered by a cri-
tical shortage of politically acceptable ad-
ministrative and technical personnel. Prog-
ress in the rehabilitation of telephone
service in the U.S. Zone is indicated in
Fig 2.
RADIO

Prior to V-E Day, the Reichspost was
responsible for the technical supervision
and maintenance of all radio broadcast
facilities in the Reich. Programs were
provided and controlled by a government
corporation under the Propaganda Min-
istry. Since radio is one of the foremost
means of direct contact with people, the
nazis encouraged maximum development
and provided unlimited funds for expan-
sion. Continous experimental work was
carried on by the Institute of Research,
a division of the Ministry of Posts, and
by the highly cartelized telecommunica-
tions equipment industry. To prevent lis-
tening to foreign broadcasts, the nazi
government encouraged the manufacture
and distribution of a cheap (approx-
imately RM 35), low-powered receiv-
ing set and the construction of numer-
ous low-powered stations for simultane-

12

ous transmission on the same frequency,
thus providing programs well within the
reach of every German.

Point-to-point radio communications
were almost entirely limited to inter-
national circuits, since wire facilities
were considered adequate for a country
of Germany’s size. The Reichspost also
operated the Marine radio services: and
acted as technical adviser and personnel
examiner for the extensive aeronautical
network maintained by the Air Ministry.
Among their special services was the
radio equipped Berlin-Hamburg express
trains which enabled passengers to
maintain contact with their homes and
offices while traveling. Amateur radio
was rigidly supervised and it was for-
bidden even to listen on the amateur
frequencies without a special license.
There were only 5,000 licensed amateurs
in Germany 1939 as compared with over
50,000 licensees in the United States.

All civilian radio activities have been
suspended since the occupation. The
Information Control Division operates six
radio broadcast stations to provide pro-
grams of news and entertainment for the
German people and Displaced Persons,
and a Hellschreiber (radio teletype)
system is being used for news distribution
to German language newspapers
published in the U. S. Zone.

FUTURE DEVELOPEMENT

Future development of all telecom-
munication services is subject to an
agreement reached at the Potsdam Con-
ference, which specified that the standard
of living in Germany would not exceed
the average standard of living of the
other European countries exclusive of the
United Kingdom and the Soviet Union.
Although definite numerical limitations
have not as yet been placed on the
developement of telecommunications,
tentative recommendations have been sub-
mitted to the German Standard of Living
Board, and final decision and action is
pending quadripartite discussion.

--- Page 16 ---
General

Sterner Justice

for Gun-Toting Germans

Germans who persist in carrying weap-
ons in the U.S. Zone, in defiance of oc-
cupation regulations, are to face sterner
justice in the future. In accordance with
a recent USFET directive, the gravity
of this offense must be taken into full
consideration in meting-out sentences.

It is felt that the German people have
been given sufficient warnings and

offered ample opportunities and periods of '

amnesty to turn in firearms. The security
of Military Government, the military for-
ces and the civilian population has been
constantly threatened by violations of this
type, and the maintenance of law and
order in the U.S. Zone depends upon the
proper disposition such cases.

Weapons cases in which there is suf-
ficient evidence to justify a trial will be
transferred from a summary military
court, after a preliminary hearing, to
either a general or an intermediate mili-
tary court for action and disposition as
it is deemed that the jurisdictional limit-
ations of a summary military court are
insufficient to allow adequate punish-
“ment.

TO PUBLICIZE SENTENCES

In the past, there has been a wide
diversity in the sentences imposed by the
different courts for such infractions of
the law, and henceforth it will be the
policy to have the penalties as severe
as the circumstances in each case war-
rant.

Where a death penalty or a long term
prison sentence is imposed it is intended

13

to publicize widely the action of the
court in order to bring home to the Ger-
man population how serious an offense
Military Government considers illegal
possession of arms and ammunition.

Prosecutors in these cases will be in-
structed to make every effort to impress
upon the court the following considera-
tions:

a. During the eight months since the
capitulation of Germany, two periods of
amnesty for the surrender of weapons
have been granted, and in addition a 10-
day period has been allowed under the
provisions of Control Council Order No.2.

b. A case of possession arising today
is, therefore, of a much more serious na-
ture than in the past, since ample oppor-
tunity has been given for proper disposal
of any weapons a person may have had.

c. To constitute adequate punishment,
in view of the above, and to act as a
deterrent to future offenders, sentences
imposed upon conviction must be very
severe.

d. Pleas and evidence introduced in
mitigation must be examined thoroughly
with the above facts in mind, for the
possibility of extenuating circumstances
at the present time which would justify
a reduced penalty is remote.

Uniform Information Policy
A quadripartite information directorate,
designed to implement the major tasks
agreed upon at the Potsdam Conference
and to disseminate world-wide news
Continued on page 16

--- Page 17 ---
THE LEADERS of th

Not only men and equipment but also wise leadership
were the decisive factors in beating the German Wehrmacht.
But winning the “fighting war” was only half the task of
the United Nations. To win the peace and prevent Ger-
many from ever again threatening world security will
demand statesmanship and wisdom of the highest caliber.

Control Staff

DIRECTORATE — —MILITARY
British — Brigadier C. L. Richardson

y a Alternate —
_

French — Brigadier General Gauche
Alternate — Colonel Frerejacques

Soviet — Lieut. General G. S. Loukianchenko
Alternate — Maj. Gen. S. A. Krasnoyarsky

American — Maj. General Robert W. Harper
Alternate — Colonel F. E. Emery

DIRECTORATE — NAVAL
British — Admiral Sir Harold M. Burrough
Alternate — Rear Admiral W. E. Parry
French — Rear Admiral Still
Alternate — Captain Benech
Soviet — Rear Admiral V. N. Melnikov
Alternate — Commodore E. A. Titov
American — Vice Admiral William A. Glassford
Alternate — Commodore H. J, Ray

DIRECTORATE — AIR

British — Air Chief Marshal Sir W. Sholto Douglas
Alternate — Air Marshal H. E. P. Wigglesworth

French — Maj. General de Sevin
Alternate — Colonel Bizard

Soviet — Lieut. General T. F. Koutsevalov
Alternate — Maj. Gen. S. K. Kovalev

American — Maj. General Robert W. Harper
Alternate — Col. Joseph Halversen

DIRECTORATE — TRANSPORT
British — Mr. R. J. M. Inglis
Alternate — Mr. H. W. W. Fisher

French — M. Le Vert
Alternate — Lt. Colonel Mange

Soviet — Maj. General R. A. Kvashnin

Alternate — Director General V. I, Trunov
American — Colonel J. B. Hughes
Alternate — Colonel John F. Niles

COORDINATING COMMITTEE

‘Lieut. General Sir Brian Robertson

Alternate — Maj. Gen. |. S. O. Playfair
Lieut. Generat Louis Koeltz

Alternate — Maj. Gen. de Sevin
Army General V. D. Sokolovsky

Alternate — Lieut. General M. I. Dratvin
Lieut. General Lucius D. Clay

Alternate — Maj. Gen. Oliver P. Echols

SECRETARIAT

Colonel J. St. J. Rootham

Alternate — Lt. Cof. E. S. Greenwood
M. J. L. Baudier, Consul General de France

Alternate — M. L. J. Calvy
Counsellor S. M. Kudriavtsev

Alternate — Major A. A. Kudriavisev
Colonel H. A. Gerhardt

Alternate — Colonel Paul Birdsall

ADMINISTRATIVE BUREAU
‘Soviet — Lt. Colonel M. Y. Lysenko
Alternate — Maj. V. M. Chizhikov
American — Colonel Frederick W. Drury
Alternate — Major James A. Riley
British — Maj. A. V. Nares
Alternate — Capt. R. H. J. Rees

DIRECTORATE INTERNAL AFFA!
& COMMUNICATIONS
British — Maj. General P. M. Balfour
Alternate — Brig. G. D. G. Heyman
French — M. Hontebeyrie
Alternate — M. Mauleon
Soviet — Maj. General Malkov
Alternate — Maj. General P. A. Popov
American — Brig. General Frank C. Meade
Alternate — Colonel S. R. Brentnall

DIRECTORATE — PRISONERS OF
AND DISPLACED PERSONS
British — Brigadier A. G. Kenchington
Alternate — Colonel R. N. Thicknesse
French — M. de Rosen
Alternate — Major Rochcau
Soviet — Colonel A. S. Yevseyev
Alternate — Lt. Colonel M. F. Balakin
American — Brig. General Stanley R. Micl
Alternate — Lieut. Colonel Harry S.

--- Page 18 ---
UNFINISHED TASK

To the men named here falls the difficult task of
achieving the Quadripartite aims for Germany. The
Control Council, Coordinating Committee and Staff is
reproduced so that all MG personnel may familiarize

themselves with the men who are now working to
finish the job.

POLITICAL ADVISORS
British — Sir William Strang
Alternate — Mr. C. E. Steel
French — Amb. E. Tarbe de St. Hardouin
Alternate — M. de [a Tournelle
Soviet — M. A. A. Sobolev
Alternate — V. S. Semeonov

American — Amb. Robert Murphy
Alternate — Mr. Donald R. Heath

Control Staff

DIRECTORATE — POLITICAL
British — Mr. C. E. Steel
Alternate — Mr. I. T. M. Pink
French — M. de la Tournelle, Minister Plenipotentiary
Alternate — M. Tisseau, Consul General de France
Soviet — M. A. A. Sobolev
Alternate — V. S. Semeonov
American — Mr. Donald R. Heath
Alternate — Mr. L. V. Steere

PUBLIC RELATIONS
Maj. General W. H. A. Bishop
Alternate — Mr. R. F. ON. Bashford

M. Hoffet
Alternate — M. Francais DIRECTORATE — FINANCE
M. I. F. Filipov British — Mr. S. P. Chambers

Alternate — Brigadier P. K. Debenham
French — M. Leroy Beaulieu
Alternate — Major Masson
Soviet — P. A. Maletin
Alternate — V. N. Kobrin
American — Mr. Joseph M. Dodge
Alternate — Colonel G. Robinson

Lieut. Colonel James E. Williams
Alternate — Major Carl E. Welchner

LIAISON & PROTOCOL SECTION
Chief — Colonel H. G. Jennings Bramly

RECORDS & ARCHIVES SECTION

Chief — Colonel P. Desfeuilles DIRECTORATE — ECONOMIC

British — Sir Percy Mills
Alternate — Mr. E. A. Seal

French — M. Sergent
Alternate — M. de Boysson

_ Sovie. — K. I. Koval

Alternate —

American — Brig. General William H. Draper
Alternate — Captain C. David Ginsburg

DIRECTORATE — LEGAL

British — Mr. N. L. C. Macaskie, K. C.

Alternate — Brig. R. O. Wilberforce
French — M. Lenoan

Alternate — M. Lebegue
Soviet — I. A. Karasev
American — Mr. Charles Fahy

Alternate — Judge J. W. Madden

DIRECTORATE — REPARATIONS
DELIVERIES, RESTITUTION
British — Mr. G. S. Whitham
Alternate — Mr. R. H. Parker

DIRECTORATE — MANPOWER
british — Mr. R. W. Luce

Alternate — Mr. A. F. Rouse
French — M. Ziegel

Alternate — M. Dechamp
Soviet — Colonel T. Remzov

Alternate — P. V. Marenov
American — Brig. Gen. F. J. McSherry

Alternate — Mr. Lee R. Werts

French — M. Glasser
Alternate — M. le Conseille Allain
Soviet — Maj. General P. |. Zorin
Alternate — Colonel N. M. Popov
American — Colonel Leslie W. Jefferson
Alternate — Lieut. J. P. Crona, USNR

15

--- Page 19 ---
Continued from page 13
throughout Germany, is being considered
by the occupational powers.

Such services would be maintained for
a considerable period of time extending
beyond 1 July 1946.

Pending the establishment of such
agreement, informal quadripartite discus-
sions with representatives of the infor-
mation control services of the four oc-
cupying powers will be continued as a
means of securing agreement for informa-
tional programs to be carried out by the
occupying powers acting jointly, or action
which will be taken by the information
control services of each of the zones
acting independently from the others.

In the U.S. Zone, Information Control
Services is working to accomplish a
threefold task: (a), to remove remaining
influences of nazism and militarism ; (b), to
further a desirable political development
along democratic lines; and (c), to help
guide the reorientation of German think-
ing.

It is hoped to turn responsibility for
information services over to the Germans
as rapidly as possible, consistent with

, Maintenance of the present degree of

~ thoroughness with which German partici-
pants in information services are vetted
and the ocfficacy of present devices for
preventing the dissemination of nazi or
militaristic ideology.

Rural Police Force

Orders to establish a rural police force
at the Land level of government in the
US. Zone of Germany were contained in
recent USFET directive.

The organization will be created within
the Ministry of the Interior. Towns of up
to 5,000 population will be allowed to
contract with the Land rural police for
police service in lieu of creating an in-
dependent municipal police department.

Facilities and suitable personnel of the
abolished National Gendamerie (including
the Motorized Gendamerie and the Moun-

16

tain Gendamerie) and all existing rural
police agencies may be used in establish-
ing the Land rural police.

Rural police personnel will confine
their operations to the rural areas of the
Land except in emergencies or when re-
quested by the chief civil authority of a
Stadtkreis or Gemeinde to render police
assistance or when directed to do so by
the Minister of the Interior.

Hiring of Ex-PWs

Repatriated German prisoners of war
considered for employment by Military
Government or by the German civil gov-
ernment must be re-screened by the Spe-
cial Branch before hiring, in accordance
with the appropriate denazification direct-
ives, USFET has ordered. Experience in-
dicates that such re-screening is neces-
sary to eliminate undesirable candidates.

Emergency Furloughs

The return of military personnel to the
United States for emergency reasons will
be expedited under the provisions of War
Department Circular 14 issued 15Jan-
uary 1946.

Authority to approve applications of
emergency returnees is now vested with
the theater headquarters. This authority
normally will be used when authentic in-
formation has been received that the
return of the individual will contribute
to the welfare of a dying member of the
immediate family, or where, through the
death or serious illness or accident to
such a close relative, important respons-
ibilities are placed on the soldier which
cannot be met from overseas or by any
other person.

All approved applications forwarded
through channels to USFET Headquar-
ters will include individual’s name, rank,
ASN, organization, home address, state-
ment clearly outlining emergency, and
supporting evidence such as cablegrams
or letters from persons having knowledge
of the circumstances.

--- Page 20 ---
German Reactions

Election Results Show
DEMOCRATIC PROCESS BEGINS

The results of the elections of January
the 27th in Greater Hesse confirm the
results obtained the previous week in 17
landkreise. Here again the Socialists have
a wide margin of victory over all the other
parties, receiving some 45 per cent of all
votes cast. The Communist Party did
somewhat better, duc to its large support
in the industrial kreise of Hanau and
Gross Gerau. The Christian Democrats
again took the lead in the prevailingly
Catholic landkreise, Limburg, Berg-
strasse, and the Taunus. In strongly Pro-
testant areas the Liberal Democrats had
some measure of success, indicating that
they are far from accepting the assur-
ances of non-denominationalism coming
from the leaders of the Christian Dem-
ocrats.

Military Government in Wiesbaden has
pointed out that analysis of the figures
obtained from these first elections reveals
that the SPD did not receive the victory
which the mere statistics would seem to
’ indicate. Practically 70,000, nearly one-
half, of the votes it obtained in the elec-
tions of the 20th came from Gemeinde
in which it presented the only list or
was opposed only by the Communists.
Since the Christian Democrats polled
more votes per candidate than the So-
cialists in Gemeinden where the two were
in competition, it is felt that a further
extension of the CDU organization into
all the communities where the Socialists
are functioning would materially cut
down the latter’s lead.

It is considerations of this nature
which make it exceedingly difficult to

17

draw any specific conclusions from the
recent elections. Now, however, that the
leading political parties have been
authorized at a Land level throughout
the Zone, it may be assumed that they
will all have an equal opportunity to
campaign for’ the coming elections and to
present lists in all communities. Some of
the features which were objected to in
this election will thus be eliminated.

WURTTEMBERG

Although, as of the time of writing,
for the final results are not known
Wiir'ttemberg, partial returns indicate a
very great difference between it and the
other districts in the Zone. In Wiirttem-
berg voters were given a “write-in” op-
tion which they might use in case they
did not choose to vote a party ticket.
It appears that the great majority actually
did choose to by-pass the recognized par-
ties. In 12 out of 19 Kreise some 230,000
votes were cast for a total of 4,786
councilmen. Of these votes 3,575 were
for independent councilmen. The
parties trail far behind with the Christian
Democrats electing 691 councilmen, the
Socialists 371, the Democrats (Demokra-
jtische Volkspartei) 65, and the Com-
munists 54.

In such a situation it is manifestly im-
possible to draw any conclusions as to
the real division of political strength. The
question remains to be solved how those
so far undecided will vote at a general
Land election when, it is to be presum-
ed, they will have to vote party tickets.
The moderates, that is, the Christian De-

--- Page 21 ---
mocrats, maintain that they will eventual-
ly receive the backing of this very con-
siderable portion of the electorate.

As yet no explanation of the curious

results in Wiirttemberg has been offered ©

by either the Military Government of-
ficials or by the German licensed press.
On the face of it one is tempted to jump
to the conclusion that the German voters
have in Wiirttemberg clearly signified
their distrust of organized political par-
ties. This may be a more or less con-
scious hangover of Goebbels’ anti-demo-
cratic propaganda, or it may simply testify
to the inadequacy of the present political
organizations. In either case these re-
sults do not confirm the generally en-
couraging trend of political activity in
other areas. On the contrary, they cast
some doubt on the validity of the returns
obtained elsewhere. It might even be
concluded that Germans who voted for
the recognized parties did so in the other
areas only because they had no choice.
However, this would signify a general
attitude of indifference and scepticism
toward the elections themselves which
the high percentage of returns does not
bear out.

BADEN

In Baden, as was to be expected from
this predominantly Catholic region, the
Christian Democratic Union polled an
absolute majority of all votes cast. As
shown in the table, they received almost
double the number of their nearest com-
petitor, the Social Democratic Party.

There were certain peculiarities in the
voting procedure in Baden which should
be noted. According to the returns only
64 per cent of those eligible to vote actually
participated. This would seem far out of
line with the zonal average of 83.6 per cent.
However, in many communities only one
list of candidates was presented. When
this occurred the list presented was con-
sidered automatically to be elected and
no voting actually took place. In the
towns which presented only one list, 949
seats out of a total of 1070 went to the
Christian Democrats, and most of the
remainder to the Socialists. In contest-
ed Gemeinden the Christian Democrats
again won 1,827 seats as compared with
the Socialists 445. (This four to one
lead is in marked contrast with the two
to one lead in popular suffrage.)

Tabulation of 27 January Voting
CExcluding Wurttemberg)

Land or Total Socialist Com- | Christian | Liberal Indepen- , Seas
Regierungsbezirk votes cast munist | Democrat | Democrat} various pating
Greater Hessen. . .| 764578 1343324] 49523] 240850] 18565 | 81786] 86
Baden... ... 231 675 | 70138} 14112] 130493] 12286 6071] 64
Niederbayern
Oberpfalz 474944 | 68831] 9725; 296819 _ 116715} 82
Oberbayern 466 990 | 77227) 11078] 225491 1716 {111905} 89
Schwaben ..... 304 742 | 29428} 4160 88 624 160 4178005) 86
Ober- und
Mittelfranken. . . 406 199 |107 794] 15922 91919] 18654 |159547} 86
Mainfranken .. . 274 879 | 41438] 5448] 130694 2 | 94344) 82
Total 2 924 025 | 723 180] 109 968] 1 204 388 | 51381 |748373] 83.6

18

--- Page 22 ---
BAVARIA

In Bavaria the Christian Social Union,
inheritors of the tradition of the Baye-
rische Volkspartei as well as of nu-
merous other conservative groups, was
the sensational winner, polling some-
thing less than half of all votes cast. Only
in Ober- and Mittelfranken did the
Socialists fare better than the Christians.
If it is true, as Josef Miiller, leader of
the Christian Social Union, states, that
by next elections the independents will
have come over to the CDU, this party
could then count on the support of 75
per cent of the rural population. Leaders
of leftist parties have conceded that these
votes probably would go to the CSU in
a general election.

“THE NAZI VOTE”

Bavaria is, of course, the only Land
in the United States Zone which has at
present the same boundaries which it had
at the last free elections in 1932. It is,
therefore, possible to make a comparison
between the two elections. The Frank-
furter Rundschau has done this in an
editorial published the 29th of January.
Here are the percentages it gives for the
elections held on the 24th of April, 1932.

Bayerische Volkspartei 32.6 Yo
NSDAP 32.5 0
Social Democrats 15.4 %
Communists 6.6 Yo
Landvolk 6.5%
German National 3.3%
German People’s Party 1.7%
And the figures for the recent elections:
Christian Social Union 43.2.9
Independents and various 32.1%
Social Democrats 16.5%
Communists 2.3 Oo
Liberal Democrats 1.0%

The comparison is indeed striking. It
would appear, as the Frankfurter Rund-
schau suggests, that while the parties
of the left have retained their former
supporters, the Christian Socialists have
taken over those of the BVP and the

19

other rightists parties, and the  sup-
porters of the NSDAP have voted al-
most to a man for the so-called indepen-
dents and various splinter groups. At-
tractive as this hypothesis might be to
some, it is not supported by an exami-
nation of the facts. In the first place,
no account is taken of those who were
not eligible to vote in this clection by
reason of their affiliation with the
NSDAP. Second, a comparison is made
between figures based on Bavaria as a
whole in 1932 and others based only
on the most conservative sections of
Bavaria in 1946. Practically speaking, it
will be impossible, without direct inter-
rogation of individual voters, to deter-
mine the political orientation of former
nazis.

“CHRISTIAN” A MASK

The Socialist and Communist party
leaders in commenting on the recent elec-
tions have severely criticized the use of
the label “Christian” by a conservative
party. They maintain that this is simply
a mask used to conceal narrow and
reactionary group interests. In many
cases, it is stated, the voter had no knowl-
edge whatever of the programs of the
various parties and simply chose the
lists headed by the word “Christian”
because of its reassuring connotation. Had
there been more time for the parties to
develop their organization and their pro-
gram the results, it is contended, would
have been quite different. The “Chris-
tians” readily agree, but state that the
results would have been still greater in
their favor, as it would have given them
the opportunity of “Christianizing” the
independents.

It is generally known that the Christian
parties in the Zone all stressed the fact
that they were non-denominational, while
the pre-Hitler “Christian” parties were
Catholic. So far, it would seem that
neither the CSU or CDU has succeded
in winning over any large number of
Protestant followers. These, as a group,

--- Page 23 ---
are more largely represented by the in-
dependents than by any authorized po-
litical organization. The Socialists are
also. making a strong bid to win their
support, while the Liberal Democrats, the
“also-rans” of this election, would seem
to be the natural inheritors of at least
the conservative wing of the Protestant

group. Without doubt, before the Land
elections take place, this large group,
which has not as yet committed itself
for any party, will undergo a marked
political evolution. The direction this evo-
lution takes will largely determine the
outcome of subsequent elections.

20

--- Page 24 ---
Press Comments

an They THE CHRISTIAN cae MontToR

ji
i) Oye New York Times gs

mar oiameaiemscens Beat

Ss

BETTER PAID ARMY....

a suggested solution to occupation problems

Demobilization and occupation news
continues to feature both press and radio
comment as well as receiving prominent
space in the news pages of the world.

Airing his views on the size of the
postwar army on a Mutual Broadcasting
Company program, Senator Edwin C.
Johnson, puts the matter primarily on a
dollar and cents basis. His com-
ment was: “We’ve had no
trouble hiring all the police-
men we have wanted simply
because we make the service
and the pay attractive. In war-
time we recruit an Army largely on the
noble impulse of patriotism, and in peace-
time on the basis of three fairly good
meals a day and a place to sleep. If we
would make peacetime military service
really worth while and pay what we pay
policemen, for instance, we would have
more volunteers than we could possibly
use.”

VOLUNTEER ARMY

Taking generally the same position as
Senator Johnson, Cedric Foster on his
MBS program expressed the opinion that
“a voluntary Army of Occupation prob-
ably, in the last analysis, is what even-
tually will come about and that army will
never come into existence unless leader-
ship in the U.S. Army takes a realistic
attitude about the responsibilities on its
shoulders. The President, as Commander
in Chief, should insist that a volunteer

21

army be made attractive enough for men
to enlist in it; and they must know they
are going to serve in foreign lands.”

STRONG FORCE NEEDED

Commenting on the need for main-
taining occupation forces, John Kennedy,
on the American Broadcasting Company
network, asserted: “The cold fact faces
us that enough force must be maintained
by all the Allies to control Germany and
Japan, or else they will be up to their
old tricks again. Today, for instance,
there are Swiss businessmen predicting
that Germany will stage an industrial
and economic comeback quicker than any
war-riven country, quicker even than her
conquerors.”

ETO vs PACIFIC

David Wills of the American. Broad-
casting System, championing the case of
the Pacific soldiers stated: “There’s a
difference between the G.I. in the Paci-
fic and the G.I. in Europe who wants
to come home. Those in the Pacific most-
ly have been all the way through the
conflict. Most of the combat troops in
the European Theater who fought the
Germans have been replaced by fresh
troops who did not know the German
in combat, who didn’t want to go there.
They were sent there. They were draft-
ed for the war — when the war was
over. They were sent over there for
occupation; they’re bored.”

--- Page 25 ---
100,000 SOLDIERS NEEDED

H.V. Kaltenborn, on his NBC program
said: “If we don’t keep at least 100,000
well armed and well trained soldiers in
Germany, that country will be taken ever
by Communists from within and without.
That will probably mean another war in
Europe b:fore too many years.”

REDEPLOYMENT-ISOLATIONISM

According to Cecil Brown of the Mu-
tual Broadcasting System, “Britain and
Russia recognize that they have a job
to do in Germany and intend to do it.
The end result of this cry of ‘bring the
Boys back home’ is isolationism.

“The reasons why soldiers want to
come home are many, and some of them
are good reasons; but we have to re-
member that if the panic of home-coming
is unchecked, then it will be understand-
able if America’s influence abroad goes
sinking. Theneed for men to keep up our
strength overseas is obvious. These men
have to come from somewhere, and they
are not coming from voluntary enlist-
ments, and the present draft is a war-
‘time measure.”

German Heavy Industry

Sharp issue was taken by John B.
Kennedy on an ABC network program
with the notion that Europe needs Ger-
man heavy industry for its economic well-
being.

“Those who are trying to keep it alive
today are those who did business with
the German cartels in.the past,” he charg-
ed. “They did it for the profit to them-
selves and the ruin or near ruin of their
country. Germany’s road to peace leads
to the farm. Men and women in the
German labor force can best serve them-
selves and the world by cultivating the
German soil.”

Occupation and Redeployment

An ironical situation is seen by The
Washington Star and The Minneapolis
Times, in which while trying to re-edu-
cate the Germans, we have failed to sell
the American GI on
the necessity and de-
sirability of occupa-
tion.

“One of the prime
reasons for the series
of ‘we want to go home’ demonstrations
by troops abroad has been the failure
of the soldiers to understand the Army’s
occupational and demobilization polices,”
avers The Star.

The Times theorizes that “there has
been a serious failure somewhere to keep
the American G.I. well informed as to
the reason for his continued presence
overseas. It is a little ironical that while
we are trying hard to re-educate the
‘enemy we are badly botching the job of
‘explaining to our own soldiers the simple
facts of occupation and demobilization.”

MILITARY TRAINING BILL

The fact that the Army has not been
receiving enough draftees from Selective
Service since last August to refill fast-
dwindling ranks, which, in turn, jeopard-
izes the Army’s ability to carry out pre-
sent foreign policy commitments abroad
is termed a sign of Congressional laxity
by a New York Times editorial. As a
remedy, The Times suggests adoption of
the universal military training bill and
unification proposal made by President
Truman. “Passage of these measures,”
the editorial asserts, “would do much to
remove the present uncertainty which be-
devils our military commanders and weak-
ens our representatives in dealing with
other powers.”

--- Page 26 ---
Britain Turns to UNO

That Britain’s foreign policy has taken
an all-important new tack is evidenced
by an article in The London Evening
Standard wherein it is hinted that the
Cabinet has decided
that ‘the cornerstone
of future British
foreign policy and se-
curity shall be the
United Nations” and
further, that “Britain will oppose the
settlement of international disputes and
problems by meetings of the Big Three
or Big Five.”

In explaining the reason for this de-
cision, the article goes on to say that
the Ministers take the view what the
future peace of the world is now solely
dependent on the United Nation’s Or-
ganization being made effective.”

Unification Bill

Members of the Senate Military Af-
fairs Committee reveal that an armed
forces unification bill incorporating sug-
gestions of both the Army and Navy is
now being drafted and will be submitted
to Congress for action within a month,
according to The Washington Post. The
bill, Senator Thomas, chairman, declared,
will follow the general lines of the plan
recommended by President Truman in
his pre-holiday message.

Denazification Skepticism

The New York Times carried a story
by its Berlin correspondent announcing
plans of the Office of Military Govern-
ment for Germany (US) to transfer the
“responsibility for denazification from
American to German hands and the fix-
ing of a general long-term policy for the
Nazis in Germany.”

It is pointed out that a skeptical atti-

tude is taken towards the plan by some,
because of the “political tendencies of

the German people towards Fascism,”
the admission of “German political lea-
ders that a free election held in Germany
today would bring a modified nazi gov-
ernment into power” and finally the state-
ments of MG officers who bring up the
matter of the ‘1,000,000 nazis in the
U.S. Zone not yet screened by the Mili-
tary Government.”

More On Occupation

In his discussion of the demobilization
problem at a news conference in Toronto,
The New York Times notes that General
Eisenhower, like Mr. Royall, attributes
much of the unrest to a wave of “bring-
them-home” pubtic opinion which is blind-
ing American occupation troops to the
importance of the Allies’ unfinished task
in Germany and Japan. The paper quotes
the. Chief of Staff as declaring: “This
clamor to bring the boys home gets back
to the soldier and has a very definite
influence on his attitude and morale. He
thinks, ‘well, if everyone says bring us
home, we must not have much to do over
here.’ It is extremely difficult for a com-
manding officer, in the face of this kind
of thing to convince the men of the real
importance of their assignment. If the
democratic Allies believe that a good
solid occupation of hostile territory is
necessary, it is up to them keep our
forces at a reasonable strength.”

Drew Middleton, writing in The New
York Times from Berlin, has a story that
a high ranking officer there views soldier
demonstrations as doing “more than
anything else to lower the prestige of the
U.S. in the eyes of the German population
and weaken the authority of Military
Government.” Others, he asserts, “regard
the demonstrations as a direct encourage-
ment to the German resistance
movements, which in recent weeks have
begun to remind the Germans through
pamphlets that national socialism is not
dead, even though it is underground.”

--- Page 27 ---
UNIT LOCATION

Station List

Military Government Elements

OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

Office of

Mil Govt for

Germany (U.S.) Berlin

Office of

Mil Govt (U.S. Zone) Frankfurt

Office ot Mil Govt
for Wirttemberg-
Baden Stuttgart

Hq 1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Stuttgart

LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

ist Mil Govt Bn (Sep)

(APO 758)

Hq & Sv Co 1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Stuttgart

Mobile Maint Plat., Hq & Sv Co

1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Zuffenhausen

Hq ist Mil Govt Med

Wirttemberg
E-1 Stuttgart
F-10 Stuttgart
F-11 Ulm

G-20 Aalen
G-21 Boblingen
G-22 Crailsheim
G-23 Esslingen
G-24 Gmiind
G-25 Géppingen
G-26 Schwabisch Hall
G-27 Heidenheim

G-28 Heilbronn

G-29 Ludwigsburg
G-30 Waiblingen

0 Backnang
2 Kinzelsau
3 Leonberg
4 Bad Mergentheim
5 Nartingen
6 Ohringen
58 Vaihingen

TOR Rn
Kannan

Landesbezirk North Baden

Co E Durlach
E-7 Karlsruhe
F-16 Mannheim
G-43 Heidelberg
G-46 Piorzheim
G-47 Karlsruhe
H-87 Bruchsal
H-89 Buchen
H-90 Mosbach
H-91 Tauberbischofsheim
H-92 Sinsheim

p Stuttgart

Wirttemberg
SK Stuttgart
SK-LK Ulm
LK Aalen

LK Boblingen
LK Crailsheim
LK Esslingen
LK Gmind

LK Géppingen
LK Hall

LK Heidenheim
LK Heilbronn
LK Ludwigsburg
LK Waiblingen
LK Backnang
LK Kinzelsau
LK Leonberg
LK Mergentheim
LK Nirtingen
LK Ohringen
LK Vaihingen

Landesbezirk
North Baden
SK-LK Mannheim
SK-LK Heidelberg
SK-LK Pforzheim
SK-LK Karlsruhe
LK Bruchsal

LK Buchen

LK Mosbach

LK Tauberbischofsheim
LK. Sinsheim

24

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay

Maj Gen C L Adcock

Col W W Dawson

Col W W Dawson
Lt Wm E Snodgrass

1st Lt E Thompson

Col W W Dawson
Maj R H Stimson
Maj J Owen

May M_Hoover
Capt W A Becker
Maj T Taylor

Lt Col J I Taylor
Capt J N Krajnak
Maj J A Holbrook
Capt H A Wyatt
Maj B V Bloom
Lt Col H M Montgomery
Capt H K Manson
Maj H W Freeman
Capt V J Manno
Capt W _L Strauss
Capt RS Deetz
Capt R Forrest
Maj S A Warren
1st Lt M Korson
Capt J G Cox

Capt RT Lynch
Col C Lisle

Maj L L Lewis

Lt Col I L Harlow
1st Lt N Semaschko
Maj W T Neel

Maj E V Le Blanc
Maj J A McGuinness
Maj N A Moore

1st Lt J Zecca

Capt H D Peterson

--- Page 28 ---
UNIT

LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR

Office of

Mil Govt

for Land Greater Hesse

Hq 2d Mil Gvt Bn (Sep) Wiesbaden
Hq Co 2d Mil Gvt Bn (Sep) Wiesbaden
Sv Co 2d Mil Gvt Bn (Sep) Oberursel

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

E-5 Wiesbaden
-6 Frankfurt
F-15 Wiesbaden
G-41 Wetzlar
H-77 Dillenburg
H-78 Gelnhausen
H-79 Hanau
H-80 Weilburg
H-81 Hofheim
H-83 Ridesheim
H-86 Bad Homburg
Regierungsbezirk Kassel
CoG Kirchhain
E-4 Kassel
F-14 Kassel
G-38 Fritzlar
G-39 Marburg
G-40 Fulda
G-48 Korbach
H-65 Eschwege
H-67 Hersfeld
H-68 Hofgeismar

Wiesbaden

ML-1 (Sp) Kassel

Regierungsbezirk Hessen
E-3 Darmstadt
F-12 Darmstadt
V-13 Offenbach
G-31 Bensheim
G-32 Bidingen
G-33 Dieburg
G-34 Friedberg
G-35 Giessen.
H-62 Lauterbach
DP-20 Darmstadt

LAND GREATER HESSE

2d Mil Govt Bn (Sep)
(APO 758)

RB Wiesbaden
SK Frankfurt
SK Wiesbaden
LK Wetzlar
LK Dillkreis &
LK Biedenkopf
LK Gelnhausen &
LK Schlichtern
SK-LK Hanau
LK Limburg &
LK Oberlahn
LK Maintaunus
LK Rheingau &
LK Untertaunus
LK Usingen &
LK Obertaunus

RB Kassel

BB Kassel

SK-LK Kassel &

LK Melsungen

LK Fritzlar-Homberg &

LK Ziegenhain

SK-LK Marburg

SK-LK Fulda & LK Hinfeld
LK Waldeck & LK Frankenberg
LK Eschwege &

LK Witzenhausen

LK Hersfeld &

LK Rotenburg

LK Hofgeismar &

Lk Wolfhagen

Liaison

RB Hessen

SK-LK Darmstadt &

LK Gross Gerau

SK-LK Offenbach .
LK Bergstrasse & LK Erbach
LK Bidingen

LK Dieburg

LK Friedberg

SK-LK Giessen

LK Lauterbach & LK Alsfeld

25

COMMANDING OFFICER

Col J R Newman

Col J R Newman
Capt F A Decker
Capt B Sturdevan

Col J R Newman

Lt Col F E Sheeman
Lt Col F A Sansome
Maj M Baymen

Maj D B Bernstein

Maj M E Chotas
Maj T Turner Jr

Capt E F Duffy
Capt J C Nelson

Maj J G Gavin
Capt O Kuntzleman

1st Lt J F Owen
Lt Col A Skarry

Lt Col R Bard
Capt G De Nubla
Maj L S Williams
Maj C F Russe
Maj E J Dikeman
Capt W B Getmann
Maj T T Turnbull

Capt S C Moore Jr
ist Lt M Rogin

Lt Col R W Copeland
Lt Col L G Kelly
Capt E J Emerick
Maj A C Leggatt
1st Lt T A Norris
Capt J M Nutt Jr

Maj R J Willard ©
Maj D M Easterday
Capt H Nickelsherg
Ist Lt A J Peyser

--- Page 29 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Office of
Mil Govt for
Bavaria Munich

Hq 3d Mil Govt Miinchen
Hq Co Minchen

Sv Co Miinchen

R & T Co Miinchen

3d MG Med Det Munich
3d MG Med Sec Minchen

Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken

Co A Ochsenfurt
E-202 Warzburg
F-210 Warzburg
G-220 Aschaffenburg
G-221 Schweinfurt
H-250 Bad Kissingen
H-251 Kitzingen
1-330 Alzenau
1-331 Brackenau
1-332 Ebern
1-333 Gemiinden
1-334 Gerolzhofen
1-335 Hammelburg
1-336 — Hassfurt
1-337 Hofheim
1-338 — Karlstadt
I-339 Kénigshofen
1-340 Lohr
1-341 Marktheidenfeld
1-342 Mellrichstadt
1-343 Miltenberg
1-344 Neustadt Saale
1-345 Obernburg
1-346  Ochsenfurt

LAND BAVARIA

3d Mil Govt Regt
(APO 403)

RB Mainfranken
SK-LK Wirzhurg
SK-LK Aschaffenburg
SK-LK Schweinfurt
LK Kissingen

LK Kitzingen

LK Alzenau

LK Brackenau

LK Ebern

LK Gemiinden

LK Gerolzhofen
LK Hammelsburg
LK Hassfurt

LK Hofheim

LK Karlstadt

LK Kénigshofen
LK Lohr

LK Marktheidenfeld
LK Mellrichstadt
LK Miltenberg

LK Neustadt a. d. Saale
LK Obernburg

LK Ochsenfurt

Regierungsbezirk Ober & Mitteliranken

Co G Ansbach
E-203 Ansbach
F-211 Narnberg
G-228 Ansbach
G-229 Firth

H-261 Dinkelsbithl
H-262 Eichstadt
H-263 Feuchtwangen.
H-26+ Gunzenhausen
H-265 Hersbruck
H-266 Hilpoltstein
11-267 Weissenburg
H-268 Rothenburg”
H-269 Schwabach
I-270 Scheinfeld
H-271 Windsheim
H-272 Lauf _ -
H-273 Neustadt a, d: Aisch
Co B Bamberg’ .
G-222 Bamber;
G-223 Bayreuth

RB Ober and Mittelfranken
SK-LK Nirnberg
SK-LK Ansbach

SK-LK Farth

LK Dinkelsbithl

LK Eichstadt

LK Feuchtwangen

LK Gunzenhausen

LK Iersbruck

LK Ililpoltstein

LK Weissenburg

LK Rothenburg”

LK. Schwabach

LK Scheinfeld

LK Uffenheim

LK Lauf

LK Neustadt a. d. isch

~SK-LK- Bamberg -

SK-LK Bayreuth

2%

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C C Morgan
Capt J W Preston
Maj A S Keller
Qnd Lt WT Lyons
Lt Col E R Jenney
Maj M J Kanner

ist Lt R E Handwerk
Lt Col M E Henderson
Lt Col J B Bradford
Maj C M Emerick
Lt Col J B Thomson
Capt M A Potter
Capt L A Mercadante
Capt K L Ellis

Maj H P Clark Jr
Capt R W Jones
Capt J J Widmann
Capt J M Simon
Maj E G Emery
Capt J R Ellis Jr
Capt E F Smith
Capt W E Brayden
Capt L F Girolani
Capt Elmer E Kelly
Maj M B Voorhees
Lt L K Owens

Capt D J Huffman
Capt E F Warnke
Maj B H Logan
Capt J R Crain

Capt G N Hultzen
Col E M Haight

Lt Col C Klise

Lt Col W R Whitaker Jr
Maj J D Cofer

Lt Col J W Hall
Maj W T Stoats
1st Lt L D Smith
Maj H W Zurn
May II R Glaser
Maj H T Lund
Capt J J Carr

Maj R C Anderson
Maj R E Stringer
Maj Il C Kauffmann
Maj E I Paul

Maj E N Humphrey
Maj F K Hinchey
2nd Lt B Lyons:
Maj H L Woodall
Lt Col C J Reilly--

--- Page 30 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

G-224 Erlangen
G-225 Coburg

3-226 Kronach
G-227 Hof
G-247 Lichtenfels
H-252 Ebermannstadt
H-253 Hochstadt
H-254 Kulmbach
H-255 Pegnitz
H-256 Munchberg
H-258 Rehau
H-259 ‘Wunseidel
H-260 Forcheim

1-347 Naila

1-348 Stadtsteinach

LK Erlangen
SK-LK Coburg
LK Kronach
SK-LK Hof

LK Lichtenfels
LK Ebermannstadt
LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
LK Kulmbach

LK Pegnitz

LK Munchberg
LK Rehau

LK Wunseidel

LK Forcheim

LK Naila

LK Stadtsteinach

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern & Oberpfalz

Co D Regensburg
E-204 Regensburg
F-212 Regensburg
G-230 Weiden

G-244 Amberg
H-247 Cham
H-275 Burglengenfeld
H-276 Parsberg
H-277 Tirschenreuth
H-278 Neunburg
H-279 Eschenbach
1-349 Kemnath
1-350 Nabburg
1-351 Oberviechtach
1-352 — Riedenberg
1-353 Vohenstrauss
1-354 Roding
1-355 Waldminchen
1-356 Beilngries
1-357 Neumarkt
1-358 Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Co H Regensburg
G-243 Passau
G-245 Landshut
G-246 Straubing
11-301 Deggendorf
H-302 Eggenfelden
H-303 Grafenau
H-304 = Kelheim
H-305 Landau
H-306 Pfarrkirchen
H-307 — Zweisel
H-308 Vilshofen
11-309 _—-Vilsiburg
H-310 Fre:
1-375 Bo; tae
1-377 Dingolfing
1-378 — Griesbach
1-379 Kétzting
1-380 Mainburg
1-381 Mallersdorf
1-382 Rottenburg
1-383 Viechtach
1-385  Wegscheid

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Co F Munich
E-205 Munich
F-213 = Munich
G-236 Partenkirchen

RB Niederbayern & Oberpfalz
SK-LK Regensburg

SK Weiden &

LK Neustadt a. d. Wald
SK-LK Amberg D
LK Cham

LK Burglengenfeld

LK Parsberg

LK Tirschenreuth

LK Neunburg vorm Wald
LK Eschenbach i. d. Opf.
LK Kemnath

LK Nabburg

LK Oberviechtach

LK Riedenberg

LK Vohenstrauss

LK Roding

LK Waldmiinchen

LK Beilngries

LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
LK Sulzbach-Rodenburg

SK-LK Passau
SK-LK Landshut
SK-LK Straubing
LK Deggendorf
LK Eggenfelden
LK Grafenau
LK Kelheim

LK Landau a. d. Isar
LK. Pfarrkirchen
LK Regen

LK Vilshofen
LK Vilsiburg
LK Wolfstein
LK Bogen

LK Dingolfing
LK Griesbach
LK Kotzting

LK Mainburg
LK Mallersdorf
LK Rottenburg
LK Viechtach
LK Wegscheid

RB Oberbayern
SK-LK Munich
LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen

27

Lt Col F Robie
Maj S Klein

Capt J F Begley
Maj B P White

Lt Col J R Case
Capt J J Bianchi
Maj R G Hanford
Lt Col P B Lamson
Maj M F Skinner
Maj A C Abbott
Maj R H Dodds
Maj D H Alexander
Maj R J Nelson

1st Lt W P Morris
1st Lt H F Casademont

1st Lt H L Gross
Lt Col Hasting
Maj C G Doyle

Maj J C Robertson Jr
Maj J H Mattox
Capt L S Gagliardi
Capt E Fichter

Capt RE Boyd

Maj F P Murray
Capt S P Himic
Capt W R Baylies
ist Lt T E McGee
Capt F N Shanbacker
Capt R A Berry
Capt C V Hansen
Capt S Lesneski
Capt C R Bucheit
Capt R_D Canover
1st Lt L C Johnstone
Capt W _N Blanton
Capt A J Dann

1st Lt W S Mather
Maj W Wickersham
Maj H J Mrachek
Maj H T Olsen

1st Lt O A Childs
Maj E W Manning
Capt S Perlman
Capt C T Hutson
Capt G C McCall
Capt W _D Baird
Capt A R Sphar
Capt W_J Fitzpatrick
Capt F Harris

Capt R W Douglass
Capt A G Albert
Capt E M Martocci
Capt A S Gallant
Capt J W Fleishman
Capt J W Leidy
Capt C_N Ahlstrom
1st Lt E A Russo
Capt A L Corcelius
Capt H Walter

1st Lt W M Ellis
Lt Col R F Brooks
Lt Col E Keller Jr
Lt Col C H Heyl

--- Page 31 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

G-237 Ingolstadt
G-238 Munich

H-286 Firstenfeldbruck
H-287 Landsberg
H-288 Pfaffenhofen
H-289 Starnberg
H-290 Weilheim
H-291 Wolfratshausen
1-362 Aichach

1-364 Schrobenhausen
1-367 Dachau

1-368 Schéngau

Co E Wasserburg
G-231 Freising

G-232 Miesbach

G-233 Traunstein
G-234 Altétting
G-235 Rosenheim
H-280  Erding

H-281 Laufen

H-282 Mahldorf
H-283 Wasserburg
H-284 Bad Télz
H-285, Aibling

H-311 Berchtesgaden
1-361 Ebersberg

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Co G Ziemetshausen
E-206 Augsburg
F-214 Augsburg
G-239 Dillingen
G-240 Weissenborn
G-241 Sonthofen
G-242 Kempten
H-292 Donauwérth
H-293 Ginzberg
H-294 Markt Oberdorf
H-295 Memmingen
H-296  Mindelheim
H-297 Neuberg
H-298 Nérdlingen
H-299 Fassen

H-300  =Krumbach
1-369 Illertiseen
1-370 Kaufbeuren
1-372 Wertingen
1-373 Friedberg
1-374 Schwabmiinchen

Office of

Mil Govt

(U.S. Sector

Berlin) Berlin

Office of Mil Govt
(Bremen Port Command) Bremen

Office of Mil Govt

for Bremen Bremen
Office of Mil Govt
for Wesermiinde ‘Wesermiinde

SK-LK Ingolstadt
LK Munich

LK Fiarstenfeldbrick
LK Landsberg

LK Pfaffenhofer
LK Sta:

LK Weilheim

LK Wolfratshausen
LK Aichach

LK Schrobenhausen
LK Dachau

LK Schéngau

LK Freising

LK Miesbach

LK Traunstein.
LK Altétting
SK-LK Rosenheim
LK Erding

LK Laufen

LK Mahldorf

LK Wasserburg
LK Télz

LK Aibling

LK Berchtesgaden
LK Ebersberg

RB Schwaben
SK-LK Augsburg
LK Dillingen

LK Neu Ulm

LK Sonthofen
SK-LK Kempten
LK Donauwérth
LK Ginzber,

LK Markt Oberdorf
LK Memmingen
LK Mindelheim

LK Neuberg a. d. Donau
LK Nérdlingen

LK Fiissen

LK Krumbach

LK Illertissen

LK Kaufbeuren

LK Wertingen

LK Friedberg

LK Schwabmiinchen

U.S. SECTOR, BERLIN DISTRICT

U.S. Sector, Berlin District
(APO 755)

BREMEN PORT COMAND
(APO 751)

Bremen Port Command
SK Bremen

SK Wesermiinde

28

Maj L_H Norins
Maj M T Mawrence
Capt J J McBride
Capt M L Matt
Capt J E Thayer
Maj M W Nitz
Capt R J O'Dowd
Maj P L Steers
Capt L R Da

ist Lt R C Wiggins
Capt V A Burke
Maj C A Rein
Capt D E Brown
Maj E Boney

Lt Col J Kelly

Maj C J Bischoff
Maj R L Montague
Capt R H Necel
Maj C C Brown
1st Lt D L Price
Capt W M Forys
1st Lt A L Klinger
Capt V Thom

Maj E J Newmeyer
Capt W_ Caruso

1st Lt C C Smith Jr

Capt O Meirhenry
Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Maj Darragh

Capt J M Latimer
Maj J E Rhea
Capt B M Ziegler
Capt L A Proper
Capt M Glossop
Capt B M Green
Maj R F Wagner
Maj EC Bunker
Capt H E Reeves
Capt S H Brown
Capt S D Lubin
Capt C E Witney
Capt F E Kettunen
1st Lt R E Lee
2nd Lt W A Grahm
Capt L Sims

Capt L E Smith Jr

Col F L Howley

Lt Col C H Scott
Lt Col J M Shamel

Lt Col L S Diggs