--- Page 2 ---
NO. 24 — 12 JANUARY 1946

Military Government

Weekly
Information Bulletin

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
WESTERN MILITARY DISTRICT
GREAT HESSE, NORTH WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

23 OCTOBER 1945

BRITISH ZONE

EN
RANKENBERG US paitze Maton”
ZEAR. “ *<
? eset

RUSSIAN

ZONE

~ Sr ¢
a nS Seen

FRENCH

MERGENTHE tif
ee"
KUNZELS,

omen ona

oy weipengnn LASHEin

ae mau 2
sore
: aay

a: as a ee

LEGEND WAIBLINGEN
ei
RED REGIERUNGSBEZIRKE ANO Z
BLACK —LANDKREISE AND STAOTKREISE s

TATISTICS SECTION
C GEN STAFF USFET

SOURCE OMG RBI BRANCH /

--- Page 4 ---
NO. 24 — 12 JANUARY 1946

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---
CONTENTS

Military Government.
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY .
The U. S. Economic Policy in Germany .

Germany's Livestock Being Vetted By MG .

Nazi Influence On German Civil Service .

GENERAL

Arms Issue For German Police .
Assistance For German Police .
Field Reports . .... .

‘GERMAN REACTIONS .
Opinion of the Clergy .
The Man in the Street .

PRESS COMMENTS
Press Hails Moscow Agreement .
Soviet Zone Report .
Central Government .
Jap Land Reform .

Random Comments .

Station List

PAGE

oN ff AF

- 15
- 15
. 16
- 16

- 17
- 17
- 18

. 19
- 19
- 20
- 21
- 21
- 2i

- 28

--- Page 6 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT LETTERS AND
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED DURING THE WEEK

“Importation of Publications and Establishing of Publishing
Enterprises by Firms from Outside the United States Zone
‘Of Germany,” ‘attached as Annex H, Section IV, to Directive
For Psychological War fare and Control’ of German
Information Services a

Rearming German Police Implementing Allied Control Council
Directive No. 16

U.S. Troops in Aid of Civil Authority .

29 December 1945
AG 091.412-1 GEC-AGO

4 January 1946
AG 370.093 GEC-AGO

7 January 1946
AG 370.6 GEC-AGO

--- Page 7 ---
THE U, S, ECONOMIC

Mr. Byrnes, Secretary of State, gives an explanatory
statement of the memorandum issued by the State Depart-
ment on the future economic policy in Germany.

The memorandum was intended, said
Mr. Byrnes ,to make clear the American
conception of the meaning of the Pots-
dam Declaration as it bears on the pre-
sent and impending economic issues in
Germany.

The first aim of American policy was
to increase to the greatest possible extent
the export of coal from Germany to liber-
ated areas. The rate of economic recovery
in Europe depended upon coal supplies
available this winter, and it was their
intention to maintain a _ policy of
hastening the recovery of liberated
areas, even at the cost of delaying reco-
very in Germany.

Secondly, the months before the spring
must be used to set up, in conjunction
with America’s Allies, the machinery
necessary to execute the reparations and
disarmament programmes agreed on at
Potsdam.

Thirdly, German administrative
agencies must be set up which would
operate under close policy control by the
occupying authorities in the fields of
finance, transport, communications,
foreign trade and industry. Such agencies,
explicitly required by the terms of the
Potsdam Agreement, must operate if Ger-
many was to be treated as an economic unit
and if they were to move forward to Ger-
man recovery and to the eventual ter-
mination of military occupation.

Fourthly, mass starvation in Germany
must be prevented. Throughout Europe

there were many areas where the level
of diet was at, or close to, starvation.
In terms of world supply and of food
shipments from the United States, liberat-
ed areas must enjoy a higher ‘priority
than Germany throughout this first win-
ter since the war.

“This will be an exceedingly bad winter
for Germany, although only slightly more
difficult than for certain of the liberated
areas,” Mr. Byrnes went on. “The soften-
ing of American policy toward feeding
of German civilians and toward allocation
of coal exports from Germany, while it
would ease the difficult task of the four
occupying authorities, would be largely
at the expense of liberated areas. We
are, however, constructively preparing for
the second stage in German economic
policy which should begin some time next.
spring.

In .this second stage, it is envisaged
that Germany will gradually recover.
Simultaneously with the removal of plants
under reparation plans, other plants will
be ear-marked for retention and, as fuel
and raw materials become available, Ger-
man industry which is permitted to re-
main will be gradually reactivated and
the broken transport system revived. Al-
though coal exports from Germany will
continue, a probable expansion in coal
output should permit larger allocations
in coal to the German enonomy after
the end of winter. German industrial

(continued on page 29)

--- Page 8 ---
Hightights of Policy

POLICY IN GERMANY

The State Department tells Military Government what
the United States economic policy will be in Germany.

The determination of the amount and
character of industrial capital equipment
unnecessary for the German peacetime
economy which is to be made by the
Allied Control Council prior to 2nd Feb-
ruary, 1946, has the limited purposes
of eliminating the existing German war
potential and deciding the volume of
available reparation from the three we-
stern Zones of occupation. (a) The task
of the Allied Control Council is to
eliminate German industrial capacity to
produce finished arms, ammunition, im-
plements of war, aircraft and seagoing
ships, either by removing such capacity
as reparation or by destroying it, and to
effectuate a drastic reduction in the capa-
cities of the metallurgical, machinery, and
chemical industries. The present deter-
mination, however, is not designed to
impose permanent limitations on the Ger-
man economy. The volume of permitted
industrial production of a peacetime char-
acter will be subject to constant review
after 2nd February, 1946; and final Al-
lied decisions regarding restrictions to
be maintained on German industrial ca-
pacity and production will not be made
until the framing of the peace settlement
with Germany. (b) While reparation
removals will undoubtedly retard Ger-
many’s economic recovery, the United
States intends, ultimately, in co-operation
with its allies, to permit the German
people, under a peaceful democratic gov-
ernment of its own choice, to develop

their own resources and to work toward
a higher standard of living, subject only
to such restrictions designed to prevent
production of armaments as may be laid
down in the peace settlement. (The
phrases “machine industry” and “machine
manufacturing industry” in the Berlin
declaration should be interpreted broadly.
It is suggested that the phrases should
be interpreted to cover “metal working
industry,” or, in British terminology,
heavy and light engineering. The -words
“chemical industry” should be interpreted
to include particularly that part of the
industry which is devoted, or can be
readily converted, to war production, and
to exclude the potash and salt industries
which should be included with extractive

_ industries.)

It is in the interest of the United States
to abide strictly by the terms of the
Berlin declaration which imposes a severe
reparation obligation on Germany in or-
der to: (a) Weaken effectively the econ-
omic base from which war industry could
be derived until a peaceful democratic
government is firmly established in Ger-
many; (b) Provide material assistance
to United Nations countries which have
suffered from Nazi aggression and which
now face tasks of rehabilitations and re-
construction from the damage of war;
(c) Ensure that in the recovery from econ-
omic chaos left by war in Europe, the
aggressor nation, Germany, shall not re-

(continued on page 23)

--- Page 9 ---
Germany's Livestock Being

|

A

VETT

»)

DY MG

Under Military Government, the Veter-
inary Service in Germany deals primarily
with matters of importance to public
health and economics. The prevention
and control of animal diseases not only
reduces the transmission of certain of
these diseases from animals to man but
also checks great losses in essential live-
stock food resources. A successful veter-
inary program thus benefits the mission
of occupation by promoting German food
production from livestock sources.

The German Veterinary Service was
once an efficient organization built up
around a framework of government veter-
inary officials that began in each Land
Kreis and Stadtkreis and went up through
the Regierungsbezirk to a central agency
in Berlin. This organization provided the
machinery for a system of regular and
detailed reports on all communicable dis-
eases of livestock. It instigated and main-
tained control measures and quarantine
restrictions, provided diagnostic and
laboratory service to prevent the spread
of animal diseases, and set up a
veterinary inspection service for meat,
milk, and related foods of animal origin.
Research facilities and institutions of
learning were also maintained as a part
of the German Veterinary Service.

WAR DISRUPTS SERVICE

These services were gradually halted
by the progress of the war, with its
displacement of persons in countries and
areas of combat, the disruption of
communications, and the destruction of
institutions of science and research. After
the end of war, the United States policy
of denazification brought about the dis-
missal of a large percentage of govern-
mental officials from their former posit-

ions. It was soon realized that only with
an effective civilian administrative agency
for control and supervision could the
German Veterinary Service be satisfact-
orily reestablished. The first step taken
was to reconstitute the official govern-
mental organization beginning with the
Kreis level, using only men who were
politically and professionally acceptable.
Then a system of disease reporting was
devised in order to provide information
on the status of livestock health and the
location of current diseases. Laboratories
for diagnostic service and biological prod-
uction were reopened and put into
operation.

After six months of investigation and
review most of the official positions have
been filled with approved and qualified
individuals. A few of the older veterinary
officials could be retained because of
their political beliefs, some were brought
back from retirement, but many had to
be replaced by men with very little or
no experience who had to be trained. A
short course for veterinarians is being
conducted in one of the veterinary schools
in the Zone to carry on this training pro-
gram. Instruction in veterinary police,
veterinary jurisprudence, agricultural ani-
mal breeding, the hygiene of domesticated
animals and the duties of a state veter-
inarian are included in the curriculum.
Examinations are given at the end of the
courses and the candidates who satisfact-
orilly pass are considered qualified for
civil service positions.

At the present time, reports on
communicable animal diseases are being
submitted regularly and in much the same
manner as they were prior to the war.
Military Government channels of
communication are used to transmit this

--- Page 10 ---
information when necessary. However, in
several Regierungsbezirks the reporting
is now handled satisfactorily through civ-
ilian channels. This procedure will be
extended throughout the Zone as soon as
civilian communications permit. Recent
outbreaks of animal disease have been
reported immediately and effective control
measures initiated by this civilian or-
ganization.

MG AIDS CONTROL

The Veterinary Officers with Military
Government have aided in reestablishing
the laboratories necessary for diagnostic
purposes, biological production, and food
examination and analysis. Buildings,
building material, technical equipment,
supplies, transportation, fuel and essen-
tial emergency materials and equipment
have been acquired. Slaughterhouses in
the larger towns and cities needed
repairs, sanitary facilities, and fuel. Simil-
ar difficulties were met within the dairy
and pasteurization plants. Because of the
lack of fuel for effective pasteurization
and of repairs and necessary equipment
for processing milk, the German inspect-
ion service is required to exert closer
supervision over the handling of these
products. Monthly inspections rather than
the previous annual ones, are demanded.
Reports of the findings of these visits are
submitted to Military Government offic-
ials. Monthly, rather than the former
annual, reports of the findings of meat
inspections are required. These reveal
more quickly the current status of health
of the livestock slaughtered. Recently
they led to the discovery of a communic-
able disease in animals that was going
unnoticed and provided the basis for an
area-wide campaign to eradicate it.

OLD DISEASES RETURN

Many different types of diseases are
reported each month but several are
giving the veterinary service much
coneern at this time. Glanders, which
appeared for the first time in many years

in Germany, was found in the United
States Zone this fall and is being elimin-
ated by testing all horses. This disease
was discovered in Wehrmacht horses im-
ported from other countries.

Hog cholera, a relatively rare disease
in Germany, is present in one area. It is
being controlled by disinfection,
quarantine and immunization. The use
of crystal violet vaccine is being introd-
uced to the German Veterinarians by
Military Government Veterinary Officers.

Swine erysipelas is present generally
throughout Germany. This is due to the
fact that the customary vaccination pro-
gram was not carried out last spring
because of the advancing allied armies.
This disease, however, is being treated
and controlled at the present time by
quarantine and vaccination.

Foot and mouth disease, which effects
only cloven-hoofed animals such as the
cow, sheep, goat, and pig, is present in
all countries of Europe. This disease was
at one time present in two small areas of
the U.S. Zone but has been controlled
by quarantine and vaccination.

There is, however, only a very limited
supply of this vaccine at our disposal
since it is not produced in the U.S. Zone.
The Military Government Veterinary
Service is attemting to establish a center
of vaccine production that will provide
necessary quantities for the control of
this infection.

Fowl plague, which is found in several
Regierungsbezirks, is also being controlled
by quarantine and vaccination.

If any of these diseases reach epidemic
proportions, they cause loss of live-
stock, and consequently losses of such
foods as meat, milk, and eggs. In Ger-
many, where cattle are used frequently
as draft animals, these diseases also pro-
duce shortages of this type of transport-
ation.

Rinderpest and _ contagious bovine
pleuro-pneumonia, which appeared after
the last war and caused great losses in
European livestock are not present on the

--- Page 11 ---
continent at this time. They are reported
as existing in the Middle Eastern count-
ries. Other disease, that cause excessive
losses of livestock and foods of animal
origin are present in North Africa and in
several of the Balkan countries. The mov-
ements of displaced persons and the im-
portation of livestock and foods from
these countries into Europe can have
dangerous consequences.

At the request of the International In-
stitute of Epizootics in Paris, the Veter-
inary Service of Military Government init-
iated and is assisting in carrying on a
coordinated program of disease control
between the countries of Western Eu-
rope. All countries report outbreaks of
disease within their own boundaries to
the Public Health Branch, Office of Mili-
tary Government (U.S. Zone) where this
information is plotted, recorded and diss-
eminated to the countries concerned. The
program has made possible a cooperative
pooling of information, the establishment
of uniform methods for controlling dis-
ease outbreaks, and a fair distribu-
tion of necessary vaccines and other
material. It has been extremely successful
in controlling foot and mouth disease,
which causes a high mortality among
cattle, sheep and pigs, and which is

present along the French-Spanish border.
It-was first reported in June of this year.
Immediate steps were taken to acquire
vaccine for France from Switzerland
through the efforts of the veterinary
Service of Military Government. This
material was used to establish a “cordon
sanitaire” along the border and was
effective in checking the disease. It was
thus prevented from entering France and
bringing about a repetition of the ex-
perience of 1937, when it swept with
tremendous losses in livestock across the
entire continent. Members of the
Veterinary Service of Military Govern:
ment have assisted Netherlands Veter-
inarians in establishing a production
center for foot and mouth disease vaccine.
This center now provides the countries
of Northwest Europe additional supplies
of vaccine which may be needed to
control this disease.

The future problems of veterinary
medicine in Germany will continue to
revolve around the effective control of
disease ,the improvement of present meth-
ods of control, the provision of addit-
ional facilities for vaccine production, and
the re-establishment of veterinary schools
on a firm basis. ‘

--- Page 12 ---
Nazi Influence on

Geeman Civil Secvice

In the field of civil administration
the problem that faces the Allied author-
ities in German territory is two-fold. On
the one hand all nazi elements and nazi
influences must be neutralized, and on
the other, sufficient personnel with ad-
ministrative or technical experience must
be retained to run the machinery of reg-
ional and municipal administration. These
two policies are difficult to reconcile. The
nazis, from the beginning, began what
was to be an almost complete infiltration
into all branches of civil service. This
is much more significent when it is
remembered that the German Civil
Service embraces a much wider field than
its British or American counterparts, in-
cluding not only the whole State
machinery on all levels, but also all offi-
cials of the Reichsbahn (State Railways),
the administrative and teaching staffs of
Universities, secondary and vocational
schools, and the Wehrmachtbeamte, or
specialist, technical and administrative
officials of the Armed Forces.

NAZIS INFILTRATE CIVIL SERVICE

The 1918 Revolution attempted to
democratize and broaden the German
State administration which, prior to that
time, had been under strict militaristic
control. In the federal framework of Re-
publican Germany, the civil service (with
the exception of civil servants employed
at Reich level) was subdivided into
Provinces or Lander, and local govern-
mental units, each enjoying a semi-inde-
pendent status. The Central Government
exercised only a very loose and elastic
control. Moreover, the Republic opened

the civil service to all groups, including
women, Jews and Catholics. Civil
servants were granted freedom in their
political convictions and the right of free
association. In the main, however, the
old imperial civil service group was re-
tained as the backbone of the public ser-
vice.

The era of reforms was also the period
of economic chaos and insecurity, during
which large numbers of officials were
dismissed and wages and salaries were
drastically reduced. The resulting dis-
content caused many civil servants to turn
to the rising nazi party, which promised
them security and increased power, rather
than toward the leftist political groups.

The NSDAP, realizing the value of
civil service support, spared no efforts
in directing its propaganda to those dis-
satisfied elements and in infiltrating, wher-
ever possible, into the very structure of
state administration. Its aim was to sec-
ure confidential agents at all ad-
ministrative levels. The election of 1930,
which presented the nazis with 107 seats
in the Reichstag, marked a turning point.
civil servants, with their shrewd sense
of self-interest, began to be impressed.
A civil service newspaper (N. S. Be-
amtenzeitung) was launched by the party
and sent to agents throughout the Ser-
vice. A series of public meetings was
held all over the Reich. Active collabor-
ators were card-indexed and a Depart-
ment for Civil Servants (Hauptabteilung
VII) was covertly added to the Reichs-
leitung NSDAP (Reich Directorate of the
Party).

By the time the nazi party came to
power, its influence in the civil service

--- Page 13 ---
was already considerable, especially
among the intermediate categories; it in-
cluded over 50,000 party members in all
branches of state , administration, and
could thus keep all governmental author-
ities under constant observation.

STATUTE OF 1933

The first nazi legislation towards the
accomplishment of direct infiltration of
the German Civil Service was the law
passed April 7th 1933. This was
designed as an instrument for the purging
all unworthy and unfit elements. The
major points of the statute were:

a. Dismissal of unfit civil servants; i. e.
those purportedly not having the
required education and background.

b. Pensioning of non-Aryans.

c. Dismissal of politically unreliable civil
servants . (The explanation for this
paragraph states individuals are to be
considered politically unreliable whose
previous political activities would not
warrant the assumption that they
would at all times look after the
interests of the national socialist state).

d. Transfer in the interest of the service.

e. Pensioning in the interest of the
simplification of the administration,
even though the individuals concerned
had not yet become eligible for retire-
ment.

STATUTE OF 1934

Then came the statute of 1934 which
dissolved all regional Diets and abol-
ished the semi-independent status of all
the Land and local governments. All
authority and power were concentrated
in the central Reich Government. All
Land officials became Reich officials, and
regional police matters were brought
under the direct control of the Reich
Ministry of the Interior. At the same
time the office of Reichsstatthalter
(Reich Government Representative in
each state) was created and was in every
case (except Bavaria) filled by the Party
Gauleiter for the region. Although certain

10

Lander still retained some of their own
government departments, and though the
regional constitutions varied in some
points ,party control and direction now
came in every instance from Berlin,
through the Reichsstatthalter.

STATUTE OF 1937

Any doubts left by the Statute of 1934
were eliminated by the 1937 Civil Ser-
vice Statute. The predominance of the
party was given new emphasis. Civil
servants were henceforth bound to
support, without reservations, the Ger-
man national socialist State. The Fiihrer,
as head of the State, had the right to
dismiss any official if his national
socialist attitude was not satisfactory.

The 1937 Statute defined the civil ser-
vant as the “executor of the will of the
national socialist State” and made it his
duty to act at all times as guardian
not only of the State, but also of the
party, reporting to the proper authorities
and activities or words which could be
considered politically prejudicial.

The position of the official who was
also a member of the party was given
special attention in this statute. In the
case of court action against such an
official, the party was empowered to
appoint the judges; similarly, if a civil
servant was expelled from the party, his
State appointment was also cancelled.

A civil servant who was also a
Reichsleiter, Gauleiter, Kreisleiter or
Ortsgruppenleiter, or a leader of equi-
valent status in the SA, SS or NSKK,
could be dismissed from this public
appointment only by decision of the
Fihrer’s delegate.

STATUTE OF 1939

The 1939 Civil Servic e Statute
completed the process of nazi legislation
by marking membership in the party or
one of its formations compulsory for all
candidates to a public appointment at
all levels . It states: “The choice of
applicants will be governed by their

--- Page 14 ---
personal suitability and their personal
attitude.” For the rest, the bulk of the
1937 Statute remained in force, as also
the provisions for preferential treatment
of ex-RAD-men and Army NCOs as well
as members of large families.

PARTY AND STATE RELATIONSHIP

The relationship between party and
State in Germany was unique and pecu-
liar. Party and State offices were clearly
differentiated and separately paid, yet
there was no branch and no level of
State administration that was free from
the constant supervision and control
of the party. There is no doubt that the
party could have completely taken over
the administration of the State had it
so desired. It chose instead to remain
in a supervisory capacity, at least partly
because its influence over the Civil Ser-
vice was secure. The NSDAP, therefore,
maintained its own organization parallel
to that of the State, yet remained un-
hampered by administrative, technical and
purely routine affairs. High party offi-
cials in all cases were made the heads
of the important government ministries
and were often also in control of the
corresponding party departments. Simi-
larly, in regional and local administration,
the key positions were placed in the
hands, or under the control, of regional
party leaders. As has been seen, the
Reichsstatthalter was also the Party
Gauleiter (except in Bavaria). The offices
of Oberbiirgermeister (Lord Mayor, who
is the chief authority in a Stadtkreis)
and Landrat (chief authority in a Land-
kreis) | were frequently filled by
men selected by the party Kreisleiter
of the area. In the smaller Gemeinden
the Biirgermeister was often selected by
the local party Ortsgruppenleiter.

A Hitler decree as late as April 7th
1945 again stressed that party and gov-
ernmental offices at Kreis and lower
levels must be kept separate. It is
probable, therefore, that new public offi-
cials were appointed wherever necessary.

1

In most cases this would be a mere
formality. The Party Kreisleiter retained
effective power over appointments.

The war organization of German eco-
nomy and government augmented nazi
controls. The  Reichsverteidigungsrat
(Council for the Defense of the Reich)
was composed of six members, five
sitting be virtue of their position in the
State, plus Bormann as official party
representative. All, however, were high
party officials. This body was in effect
the supreme governing agency in Ger-
many in the latter stages. It functioned
through regional Reichsverteidigungsaus-
schiisse (Reich Defense Committees)
established in each Gau under the party
Gauleiter who was given additional
powers in his role of President of the
Gauwirtschaftskammer (Gau Economic
Chamber), which controlled all economic
activity within the Gau. The ramifications
of these and similar agencies extended
into every level and branch of govern-
ment, industry and production. The whole
intricate structure, public administration
and economics integrated at every turn
with the party organization, found its
governing principle in the nazi doctrine
of leadership and operated under strict
party domination and control.

PROSELYTING AND PURGE

Before gaining power the nazis
attempted to win political support among
civil servants and were successful to the
extent of 50,000 members. Most of these,
however, were in the middle and lower
services. On winning full authority, the
party determined not to make the same
mistake made under the Republic by
retaining civil servants whose loyalty
could not be wholly relied on. Yet it
was necessary to keep the machinery
of government operating. Trained and
skilled personnel could not be immediat-
ely replaced. Under the purge law of
1934 officials considered unreliable those
who had been politically active in oppo-
sition of the party, “Jews, and others

--- Page 15 ---
were ousted. Less dangerous public
servants were retained but relegated to
subordinate positions until their loyalty
could be tested or replacements found.

This purge law operated negatively to
get rid of those considered by the party
as the positive side, examinations were
juggled and special advantage and pri-
vileg. was accorded party members. The
process began from the top and worked
down.

By 1937, all the Oberprisidenten (pro-
vincial Presidents) in Prussia had been
replaced; eleven of the twelve appointed
were Alte Kimpfer (old fighters, pre-
1933 party members), who were given
preference and were allowed to take
simplified examinations. Similarly, the
influential posts of Regierungsprasident
(District President in charge of an RB)
and Landrat (Rural Sub-District Council-
lor) were gradually handed out to party
members, even when it meant taking
little or no cognizance of qualifications
required. By 1937 in the non-Prussian
States, all but one official in the highest
levels had been replaced by the nazis.

Under the revised Civil Service Act of
1937 all appointments in the Civil Ser-
vice had to have the approval of the
party. For the higher service,
applications were subject to the approval
of the Leader of the party Chancellery.
Similarly, all proposals for appointment
to the lower categories of the civil
service had to have the approval of the
party Gauleiter in the district concerned.
The government agency making the
appointment had to furnish, among other
things, evidence of the candidate’s nation-
al socialist sympathies and activities
or .association with the party or its
organizations. The form, which had to
be submitted to the respective authorities
in connection with the above procedure,
covered among others the following
points:

a. Was the man in question a member
of the party?
b. Date of membership

12

fo)

. Number of his membership card

d, Offices held in the party

e. Rank and offices held in SA, SS,
NSKK, NSFK, HJ, ete.

f. Membership in other political parties
or associations and period of member-
ship

g. Membership in lodges

h. Membership in trade unions or

professional organizations inimical to

the national socialist State.

CIVIL SERVICE ORGANIZATION

The German Civil Service, as_ it
existed under the nazis, was divided into
four general grades, each with its own
hierarchy of ranks which were themsel-
ves graded into degrees of seniority based
on a rising pay scale and corresponding
to length of service. A high proportion
of posts involved in the various grades
of civil service were reserved for the Mi-
tairanwirter (Military Candidates) who
were granted preference over others.

1. Einfacher Dienst (Lower Grade).

This category forms only a_ small
fraction of the entire service, and was
mostly composed of officials in the Postal
Department and Railway Service. Mem-
bers could enter the Mittlerer Dienst
after passing the prescribed examinations.

2. Mittlerer Dienst (Intermediate
Grade).

Nine out of ten posts in this category
were reserved for Military Candidates.
An additional 10 per cent of the vacancies
were to be reserved for worthy un-
employed nazis. Applicants had to bet-
‘ween 21 and 31 years of age and to
have gratuated from a Volksschule (Ele-
mentary School). After a probationary
period of one year and after passing the
prescribed examinations, it was possible
to enter the Gehobener Dienst.

3. Gehobener Dienst (Upper Grade).

Every third post in this service was
reserved for Military Candidates, An
additional 10 per cent of the vacancies

--- Page 16 ---
were reserved for worthy unemployed
nazis. Candidates had to be under 30
years of age and to have graduated from
a Mittelschule (High School) or its
equivalent, such as certain vocational
schools and higher technical institutes.
The probationary period lasted two years
and ended with an examination. After
four years service, specially suitable
members may be selected for the Héhe-
rer Dienst.

4.Hoherer Dienst (Higher Grade).

Candidates for this service were
accepted only on approval of the party
Chancellory. Recruits were selected from
university-trained personnel and were
composed of legal, technical and profes-
sional officials, as well as the teaching
staffs of secondary schools and univer-
sities. Legal training was predominant
in this branch of civil service, although
several reforms had placed more emphasis
on social sciences. The maximum age was
thurty-two for legal and administrative
functions or thirty-five for technical
services.

POLITICAL CIVIL SERVANTS

Promotions in the above services were
awarded only to those who could uncomp-
romisingly demonstrate their support Of
National Socialism.

A distinctive feature of the German
Civil Service was the creation, in 1849,
of a class of “politically appointed civil
servants” which became known as the
Political Civil Service, and which em-
braced the leading executive and policy
officials of government, including the
higher Wehrmachtbeamte.

The key positions in the Héherer
Dienst were filled by such political civil
servants. They held office at the plea-
sure of the Fiihrer and were subject to
immediate removal without cause and
without hearing or investigation. Only
persons of undoubted political relia:
bility were appointed or retained in
office.

13

REICHSBUND DEUTSCHER BEAMTEN

Upon coming to power ,the nazis set
about centralizing and coordinating all
former civil service associations and
groupings, in the same way as they were
unifying all other professional and social
organizations in Germany. By 1934 all
civil service associations were merged
into a single party-controlled organiza-
tion, the Reichsbund Deutscher Beamten
(RDB, or Reich Association of German
Civil Servants) ,directed and supervised
by the new Hauptamt fiir Beamten
(Central Department for Civil Servants)
at party headquarters. For those Civil
Servants possessing specialized training,
such as doctors, lawyers, teachers, etc.,
membership in the RDB was automatic
upon their joining their own professional
organization. Active participation in the
RDB for these members, however, was
not compulsory.

The RDB dealt with all activity related
to the civil service, welfare and
assistance work of every type, the
publication of professional bulletins and
magazines ,and, most important of all,
the close supervision and intensive edu-
cation of all levels of State admi-
nistration.

The original instructions for the RDB
specified:

a. The RDB is organized according to
the Fihrerprinzip.

b. The leader of the RDB is also Head of
the Hauptamt fiir Beamten at NSDAP
Reich Headquarters.

ce. All officials of the Reich, Reichsbahn,
Reichsbank, the Lander, the Gemeinde
and of all public bodies are eligible
for membership in the RDB.

d. A member can be expelled from the
RDB if he acts counter to national
sociglist principles.

The tasks of RDB, as laid down in
those instructions, were:

s

. Training its members to become
exemplary nazis and penetrating the

--- Page 17 ---
entire Civil Service with the national
socialist philosophy.

b. Training civil servants for their
special place among the people as
executors of the Fihrer’s will.

c. Support of the Government as being
the instrument of the Fiihrer’s will.
The war imposed severe limitations

on RDB activity, and in 1948 both the

Hauptamt fiir Beamten and the RDB were

dissolved for the duration of the war.

The educational functions of RDB were

carried on by the Hauptschulungsamt

(Central Educational Department) at

party headquarters and its subsidiary

agencies at regional level.

CIVIL SERVICE ACADEMIES

Another important medium used by the
Nazis for the indoctrination of civil ser-
vants were the Verwaltungsakademien
(Administrative Academies). These insti-
tutions were founded under the Republic
as centers of higher professional studies;
they were soon adapted by the nazis to
their own ends.

In 1934, the Verwaltungsakademien
were placed under the control of the
head of the Reich Chancellory and under
the regional direction of the party Gau-
leiter and his officials. Established
throught the Reich, there were finally
41 Administrative Academies and various
subsidiary branches, designed to give
public officials an intensive indoctrina-
tion in national socialist principle. The
main courses were of three to four years
duration and qualified for one of the

14

various diplomas. Short refresher cour-
ses were also given for all categories
of civil servants. All officials who could
profit by those courses were encouraged
to enroll. Qualifications obtained were
entered in the official’s personal record
and were considered for advancement or
promotion.

As will have been noted ,there was
the closest integration between the party
and the State. In addition to the intensive
indoctrination to which all ranks of civil
servants were subjected, and to the over-
all party supervision exercised at all
levels, actual membership of the party
or its formations had increasingly been
made a prerequisite for appointment or
advancement. This process culminated in
the 1939 Statute, making such member-
ship compulsory for all candidates. The
efforts of the party, during its tenure
of power, were directed at filling all
positions of importance, not merely by
the politically reliable, but by officials
who were active supporters of nazism.
These are the realizations with which we
approach the question of the German
Civil Service and the retention of its
personnel in key positions under Allied
Occupation. Each individual case must
be carefully investigated and all active
nazis and party supporters removed from
office. A few non-nazi were retai-
ned in office throughout the party regime,
but the ratio was very small. Such non-
nazis will generally be found to be those
who either were not promoted or whose
advancement was unusually slow.

--- Page 18 ---
General

Arms Issue For

GERMAN POZICE

The long arm of civil law is going to
become considerably longer when the Ger-
man police are issued weapons, in
accordance with a directive from USFET,
which explains the conditions under which
the police are to be armed.

Municipal police will be issued pistols,
revolvers and clubs, but no automatic
weapons. However, carbines have been
approved for issue to rural and frontier
police, because of the greater distances
involved, All the weapons issued will be

of non-German manufacture. This will |

prevent any excuse for the continuation
of arms manufacture in Germany. In the
event there are not sufficient quantities
of non-German weapons available, the
directive says a temporary issue of Ger-
man weapons may be made, until the
non-German weapons arrive. However,
when the latter become available, the
German weapons will be collected and

turned over to the nearest Ordnance
Officer.

Before any weapons are distributed,
two things must be accomplished. First
the police organization must be complete-
ly denazified and thoroughly trained in
the duties and responsibilities of police
officers. Second, the weapons will be
marked in a manner which will identify
the Land which issued the weapon, and
identify the type of police (municipal,
rural, or frontier) for which the weapon
was issued. A list of these markings will
be sent to USFET headquarters so that
all Public Safety Officers and CIC and
CID teams will have them available to

15

trace weapons which are found, to their
original source.

DISTRIBUTION AND ACCOUNTING

The weapons and ammunition will be
distributed by each Minister President
to all the police agencies within his Land.
After distribution is complete theMinis-
ter President will submit to the Public
Safety Officer of the Land Office of
Military Government, a list showing the
serial number of all weapons assigned to
each police agency within the Land.

Also, each Military Government De-
tachment will be given a list showing
the assignment of weapons by serial
number and the quantities of ammunition
delivered to each police agency within
the jurisdiction of the MG detachment.

The police organization will be
required to keep a register showing the
identity of each police officer receiving
a weapon. The police officers will be
required to carry their Police Warrant
(MG/PS/G/24) attesting that they are
authorized to carry arms.

Municipal policemen will be limited
to carrying ten rounds of ammunition
whereas rural police are allowed twenty
rounds. The headquarters of each police
agency may keep up to fifty rounds of
ammunition in reserve for each weapon
on its register. All larger reserves will be
kept under military custody.

The German police officials will make
daily inspections of all weapons under
their control, to assure that the weapons
have not strayed, and also to make sure

--- Page 19 ---
that they are getting proper care. The
police organization will also keep a log
showing the use of expended ammunition,
except in the case of ammunition which
has been used on the range under the
personal supervision of US official.

The directive explains these instruct-
ions also apply to prison guards, railroad
police, and guards employed on military
installations.

No other Germans will be rearmed
withoud permission of Headquarters,

USFET.

Assistance for German Police

German police and administrative
officials can now get assistance from US
forces when dealing with disorders
caused by marauding bands of lawless in-
dividuals, states a directive issued by
USFET.

But all requests must be made in
writing through a Military Government
Officer, who will arrange with the near-
est tactical unit to furnish the armed
assistance. In cases of emergency the
requests may be made verbally, but they
must be confirmed in writing immedia-
tely thereafter.

The directive instructs all Public Safety
Officers to arrange with the nearest tac-
tical commander for a plan to furnish
assistance with the least possible delay.
As part of this plan, an arrangement for
an amergency radio system is recommend-
ed for control during an emergency. The
Public Safety Officer will also arrange to
have interpreters available for the use of
the tactical commander.

16

Field Reports

As more than ninety per cent of field
reporting data is now furnished by Ger-
man sources, the functional: specialists in
the field must assume a responsibility
characterized by more exacting super-
vision. Information must arrive on time to
be effective. When it arrives too late, or
not at all, that fact will be recorded,
and responsibility duly assessed against
the delinquent locality.

As will be seen from the table shown
below, too many reports are still arriving
in Berlin late or not at all. The complete
dependence of the Military Governor on
timely and accurate information from the
field cannot be exaggerated; if a division
with as broad a field as Internal Affairs
and Communications can make a perfect
score, there is every reason to hope that
other functions will produce the same
results,

°/y-10 Dec 45 %/,-20 Dec 45

Economics 35 52
Finance 28 60
Transportation 60 100
Manpower 4 70
Legal 59 7
LA &C. 100 100
Political Affairs 56 70
0. DL 46 63)
Average

percentage 50 %

--- Page 20 ---
German Reactions

Opinion of the Clergy

The following quotation is from a letter
written by a clergyman to one of his
colleagues.

“TI feel like you, surprised and shocked
about the impenitence and lack of cons-
cience with which our fellow country-
men regard the nazi crimes. When I
drove back into my village (after being
released from a concentration camp), I
could not believe my ears and had to
laugh when people started to shake my
hand and to assure me that they fought,
suffered and had always believed as I
did. One is not surprised at anything
any more. You should see all the people
coming to me now, asking for help and
confirmation of their innocence, as harm-
less contemporaries; they even claim to
have fought against nazism. Even people
who acted as witnesses against me in my
trial..... One hears only accusations of
Americans, the new magistrates and
alleged injustice.....

“Unfortunately my colleagues also talk
this kind of politics. How many of them
are actually disguised nazis? At our last
conference there were some who still
believe it is their duty, on the occasion
of the Christmas gospel, to proclaim and
promise our people a new national res-
urrection.”

A quite different point of view is ex-
pressed by a Catholic priest whose duties
require that he visit all the refugee camps
in Upper Bavaria.

“Who would have thought it one year
ago! The peace we were all longing for
has only cast a spell of inactivity, hope-
lessness and sullenness over us. There is
no initiative in all these refugees, there
is not even religious vitality. The Ger-
mans, especially the refugees, are still

17.

stunned by the events. The farmer sleeps
on his flour sack; the laborer goes to
work tired and weary. In the offices
there is indifference and unwillingness to
work. Many think only of clearing away
rubble and ruins. There is sleepiness all
around, This is the general feeling I find
everywhere in the country.”

When asked whether or not he believ-
ed there would be riots, the priest replied,
“By no means. It is possible that there
will be little clashes between refugees
and natives here and there, or between
foreigners and natives, but there will not
be any disturbances on a bigger scale.
Even for that the people are too tired.”

“As for the nazis, it is a known fact
that some who cannot tear themselves
away from yesterday’s ideas are still
fanning up interest in nazism. But theirs
is a lost cause. They will be lucky if the
people do not stone them to death some
day. There will never be any kind of
nazism in Germany, not even if the
Americans should leave at some future
time. It must not be overlooked that a
big proportion of the German people
renounced nazism inwardly, even before
the war broke out, when everybody could
see where it all led to. A further large
portion learned to abhor it during the
war. As a rule people did not become
converted in May 1945, but long before.
If a free election could have taken place
in 1943, if the people had been asked then
whether they were for Hitler or against
him, the charlatan of Braunau would not
have received more than 10 percent of
all the votes.”

Somewhat the same opinion was ex-
pressed in a recent issue of a Catholic
periodical: “We are tired, awfully tired.

--- Page 21 ---
What we need is peace and a quiet
turning of the mind. One great fear
dominates us all. For the Lord’s sake, we
must not get enthusiastic again over
anything. Let no one come and offer us
some ideal personality or other! The next
knight or hero that comes along should
be arrested and brought to court as a
common criminal. Should a new saint or
founder of a religion appear, we should
say him, ‘No saint can help us today.
Go and leave us in peace. Save your
prophecies for the stones. We don’t care
about the future.”

THE MAN IN THE STREET:
THE STREET CLEANER

Now that many former members of the
nazi party have been assigned to the
street-cleaning detail, this vital function
of the civil administration is no longer
ignored or taken for granted by the gene-
ral public. To be a street-cleaner is, in

the opinion of some, a mark of distinct-
the opinion of some, a mark of distinc-
tion. The following comment, made by
street-cleaning, was overheard in Stutt-
gart:

“We have been put out of leading
positions and the cliques have been
broken up, but now here we are, all
back together again.”

And the following scene, reprinted from
the local newspaper, is reported from
Heidelberg:

“A street-cleaner busily engaged in his
work was approached by a civilian.

“The civilian said, ‘Yesterday I was
sweeping here, just as you are today.’

“‘Then why aren’t you sweeping here
any more?’ the street-cheaner asked.

“*T am not allowed to any more because
I was in the party,’ was the answer.

“The street-cleaner leaned against his
shovel and said, ‘Is that so? And they
gave me this job because I was in the

party.”

(continued from page 4)

Mr. Byrnes’ Statement.

production will then increase, and Ger-
man exports should begin to approach
a level where they can finance necessary
imports and gradually to repay the oc-
cupying Powers for their outlays in the
present emergency period.

The third stage of economic develop-
ment will follow after the period of re-
paration removals, which, under the terms
of the Potsdam Declaration, must be
completed by 2nd February, 1948. Re-
sources left to Germany at that time will
be available to promote the improvement
of the German standard of living to a
level equal to that of the rest of contin-
ental Europe other than that of the Soviet
Union and the United Kingdom. Housing
and transport will recover more rapidly
than in the previous stages of economic
development. In general, the German
people will during this period recover
control over their economy, subject to
such residual limitations as the occupying

18

Powers decide to impose. These limit-
ations, which will be determined by agree-
ment among the occupying Powers, should
in the opinion of this Government, be de-
signed primarily to prevent German rearm-
ament, and not to restrict or reduce the
German standard of living.

In all these stages it must be borne in
mind that the present occupying Powers,
as well as many other nations, have suf-
fered severely from German aggression,
have played a large role in the German
defeat, and have an enduring interest in
the post-war settlement of Germany.

The settlement agreed at Potsdam re-
quired the shifting of boundaries in the
east and the movement of several million
Germans from other countries. That settle-
ment also requires, in the interests of
European rehabilitation and security, the
removal from Germany of a large part
of the industrial war-making capacity
which never served German civilians but
which from 1933 onward served to pre-
pare for war and to make war.”

--- Page 22 ---
(Dress Comments

wali? The Houston

Press Hails

MoscowAgreement

While commentators emphasised that
it had left untouched many of the prob-
lems of the war’s aftermath, the results
of the Moscow Conference of the “Big
Three” Foreign Ministers were hailed by
the American and British Press as an
evidence of returning confidence and as
a step toward world peace.

Effects of redeployment on the effi-
ciency of the occupation army continued
to provide material for comment during
the week. Other important subjects cover-
ed by editorial writers were the tour of
Soviet-occupied Germany by American
newspaper men, the role of France in the
administration of Germany and reports
of renewed nazi activities.

In commenting on the results of the
Moscow meeting, The New York Times,
on December 26, said that “it was as
good a Xmas gift as it was in the power
of this particular meeting to bestow upon
a world which must have peace before
it can cope with the terrible aftermath
of war.”

The agreement, the Times asserted
“means above all, that the peace treaties
which must form the foundations of both
the United Nations and the future world
will not be dictated by power politics
alone, but will be submitted to the cons-
cience and criticism of a wider peace con-
ference, where the interests of individual
nations are more likely to neutralize one
another into justice and fair play than
in an exclusive conclave of the. Big
Powers.”

19

: Tess
Beg, THe CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MoNtroR

aaa
aE Tye New York Gimes ez

The Times warned, however, that it
essential to bear in mind that the Mos-
cow agreement concerns only the proce-
dure for making peace, not the conditions
of the peace itself. “The central prob-
lems of Europe and Asia — the problems
of Germany and Japan — are not even
touched upon,” the Times pointed out.

Another typical comment was that of
the New York Post, which declared that
the success of the Moscow Conference
has given the people of the world renew-
ed confidence in peace,” pointing out that
the Moscow agreements mean that “we
have returned to the machinery for in-
ternational collaboration, and checked the
fatal trend to divide the world into ex-
clusive zones isolated from each other
by the deadlock of the great powers.”

British papers also hailed with satis-
faction the Moscow agreement. While
pointing out that the “new procedure re-
affirms the old and will hardly satisfy
France,” the Manchester Guardian added
that “it is something to get started again,
and since the battle of procedure was
only a sign of deeper distrust, this agree-
ment may be a sign of returning con-
fidence.”

The London Daily Express asserted
that the agreement had been a success,
and that the result will be greeted with
relief throughout the world.” The London
Times described the Big Three conference
as “a striking success which has gone
far” to redeem the breakdown of the
preceding conference in London.

--- Page 23 ---
As a result of the Moscow Conference,
as the London Daily Telegraph sees it,
“Russia has become less enigmatic, and
certainly she would not have become so
if the Western democracies had not be-
come more trusted.”

The St. Louis Star Times, in a recent
editorial, asserted that “it is inconceivable
that the French should not have some
voice in the governing of Germany. If we
confine their influence to their own zone
of occupation, they may be tempted to
turn occupation into annexation, but even
that will not give them the measure of
security to which they are entitled. To
feel safe they must have a hand in mak-
ing all Germany into a peace-minded na-
tion.”

Writing from Berlin in the London
Sunday Observer of December 23, Peter
de Mendelssohn declared that “signs of
renewed Nazi activity can be observed in
all the larger German cities and are not
confined to any particular zone. In
the American Zone the speed of de-
mobilization, the haste with which Ameri-
ean troops are being pulled out, and the
tardiness and inadequacy with which U.S.
civilian administrators arrive to take their
places, have thrown anti-nazi Germans
into a veritable panic lest they be sudden-
ly left alone to deal with a situation
utterly beyond their power. In the British
Zone considerably greater stabilitys ob-
tained in this respect, but here too, the
main anxiety of cooperative democratic
Germans is that “British military admin-
istration might pull out before men we
have selected and nominated have been
able to establish themselves firmly and
win the confidence of the community”.

Soviet Zone Report

Prominently featured in the news col-
umns, reports from the five American
correspondents who recently completed
a tour of Soviet-occupied Germany pro-
videdatopicfor many editorials. Comment

20

emphasised the efficiency of the Soviet
administration, and the fact that the
Soviet authorities have a clear concep-
tion of their objectives.

“The Russians know what they want
to do with their zone, and they are doing
it” declared the Philadelphia Inquirer.
“The Americans, British and French run
into more conflicts and confusion every
day, with the Germans in their zones
showing no inclination toward de-
mocratization and with economic adjust-
ments endlessly snarled among a populace
that is sullen with defeat and hunger.”

Comment by John MacVane of NBC
also emphasised the contrast between the
Soviet and American zones. “One con-
trast between the American and Russian
zones is that the Russians put hand-pick-
ed officials in many key positions and
issue them detailed orders on what to
do,” he said. “The Americans believe the
Germans should work out their own
problems; so American authorities only
issue orders telling them what not to do.”

The New York Herald Tribune ex-
pressed the view that the German occu-
pation could well become a bridge leading
to better understanding between the East
and the West. Soviet Russia, it said, is
much better suited than any democracy for
big mass planning jobs such as war and
military occupation. “The fact that the
Russian system possesses those virtues —
and in a time of extreme disorder or
devastation they are very real ones — does
not diminish the very different virtues
of thedemocratic system” it stated. “But
it is as important for Americans to
realize that these virtues do exist in Rus-
sian policy as it is for Russians to realize
that there is also virtue behind the rela-
tively more chaotic courses of the de-
mocracies. The German occupation could,
with more thoughtful study by each of
the other’s methods, become a_ bridge
rather than a chasm between East and
West”.

--- Page 24 ---
Central Government

Advocates of the establishment of a
central German political government have
the support of the London Economist.
In a leading article in the December 15
issue, the Economist warned that the
creation of centralized economic depart-
ments without corresponding centralized
political control would encourage the
resurgence of fascism “and perpetuate the
political irresponsibility of ordinary ci-
tizens.”

“Centralized German departments are
safe only under the control of a central
political German government, made up
of party leaders and conscious of a po-
litical responsibility to rebuild Germany
on democratic lines” asserted the Econ-
omist. “The political parties in all zones
have shown energy and proved their will
to live. The best education they can
be given in practical democracy is to
take over the work of creating and ad-
ministering a democratic state, It can
be argued for these reasons the establish-
ment of a political central government is
more urgent even than the creation of
centralized technical departments. Thus
it is one more and very potent reason
for seeking a way out of the deadlock
into which the controversy over the Ruhr
and the Rhineland has thrust Allied po-
licy”.

Jap Land Reform

Comment on Gen. MacArthur’s direct-
ive to the Japanese government on agri-
cultural reform was favorable, editorial
writers emphasising its importance in
paving the way for Japan’s democratic
evolution.

The Washington Star described the
directive as “nothing short of an emanci-
pation proclamation for the rural masses
which comprise the majority of the
population,” while the St Louis Globe
Democrat declared that agrarian reform
will give Japan what she never had before
“a strong and independent peasant class.”

21

In the opinion of the Detroit Free Press,
the reforms should provide “the best
possible platform on which to establish
the sense of individual responsibility
which is essential to democracy”.

Without casting doubt on the motives
of the government, the Dallas News rais-
ed the question as to how much inter-
national strategy was involved in the
reform program. Pointing out that Rus-
sia wants a hand in directing the destinies
of Japan, it said that “the rapid and
sweeping measures recently taken by
Gen. MacArthur look a little like an
attempt at a fait accompli, or beating
Russia to the draw.”

Random Comments

“For almost four years every loyal
citizen of the United States strained his
every resource in the successful prosecu-
tion of the war. No sacrifice was too
great. Yet now many of these same people
are not content with an orderly demobili-
zation that still willenable usas anation
to carry out our responsibilities in Europe
and Asia, but are insisting that our Army
and Navy and Air Force be stripped of
its experienced men no matter what the
consequences. This attitude, we believe,

‘is engendered primarily by a lack of ap-

preciation of our national responsibilities
and a rationalization of those respons-
ibilities to apply them to individual cases.
It is a dangerous attitude. It brings not
only disintegration of our forces at a still
critical time in international affairs, but
a distrust in other countries of our in-
tention to assume and to carry out our
proper responsibilities.” — Editorial in
N. Y. Herald-Tribune.

* *

“The standard of imperial Germany
had scarcely been replaced by the flag
of Weimar when the remnants of the
General Staff, scorning the disarmament

_terms, had begun the training of the

future officers of a new Wehrmacht.

--- Page 25 ---
There is a lesson for the rest of the
world in such behaviour, the lesson of
German treachery. The nazi spirit still
lives, even in some of the Americas.
From one conflict to another the Ger-
mans never stopped lying. Many of them
are still lying. This time we must not
be deceived” — Editorial in Philadelphia
Inquirer.

“I feel that the officials here are right
when they say that the first phase of the
occupation has been a herculean task,
well executed in spite of the mistakes,
well done by the lieutenant and the ser-
geant down there in the village when
they first marched into chaos, and
found block-long lines of utterly stupified
Germans not knowing what to do next,
just to go on living; well done upstairs,
too, considering all this complicated mat-
ter of getting four different thinking and

“three different speaking nations to think
together and to act in a common effort” —
H.R. Bauhhage in ABC broadcdst from

Berlin.
* *

“Ask any school principal to name his
toughest jobs and you are sure to find
this one at the top of the list; getting
teachers to change their accustomed ways
of thinking and teaching. That’s why he
is likely to feel considerable misgiving
about American plans to ‘reeducate’ Ger-
man teachers along ‘Democratic’ lines.
Here’s a job that makes any thing he
faces look puny by comparison. Let’s as-
sume that we find a sizeable number of
teachers among adult Germans. How can
we be certain that the ‘change’ will last
beyond occupation? Our educators in Ger-
many know these difficulties and so they
are banking on a second card. The po-
tential teacher 16 years of age or under
will also be carefully screened and then
trained in selected schools and unvers-
ities.“ Editorial in Baltimore Sun.

* *

22

“In the coming period, our government
must make fateful decisions on which
our future military security will depend.
As Chief of Staff, General Eisenhower,
more than any other one man, carries
the fearful responsibility of influencing
those decisions. To try to drag him into
the political arena at such a time is ir-
responsible at best and could be disastrous
to national unity for adequate defense.” —
Editorial in Cincinnati Post.

* *

“Starvation is a European problem, a
continental problem, of which hunger in
Germany is only one aspect; and once
that point is conceeded, we are entitled
to view with doubt any plea for the relief
of Germany alone and to reject it as
inadmissible unless it is part of a plan
for the relief of Europe. While it is
certainly not true of all those who have
spoken in sympathetic terms about the
Germans, it is true of some, that they
try to move us about the fate of Ger-
many, while remaining themselves un-
moved about the fate of Europe” - Samuel
Graftton in N. Y. Post.

* *

“Psychologists kicking around the ruin-
ed rubble of Germany are amazed at the
degeneracy of German women. The clock
has indeed been turned back hundreds of
of years. Morally and spiritually, as well
as physically, the German women are
what they were at this time last year
and the year before, pathological Nazis,
Hitler’s most fervent supporters” — Wil-

“liam Lang in MBS broadcast.

* *

“Even when Germany operated under
a democratic form of government after
World War I, there remained in that
country a vestige of the feudal system
in the estates of the Junkers. It was this
region that for more than a century
produced the arrogant Prussian gentry
which provided the permanent nucleus
for the German military caste. Russian

--- Page 26 ---
administrators of the Soviet Zone of Ger-
many report now that 7,735 of these
estates have been seized from the Jun-
kers and the 3,345,000 acres divided
among 270,000 small farmers. This is
one of the greatest land reforms in
history.” — Editorial in Minneapolis Tri-

bune.
* *

“There undoubtedly were many things
about the U.S. soldier that our enemies
failed to understand. One of the least
comprehensible to the German and Ja-
panese enlisted men, if any copies fell
‘nto their hands, must have been the
American soldiers’ newspapers and ma-
gazines. Written by and for thie enlisted
men, they were full of material that
would have meant a court martial for
the writer in most armies. In the Ameri-
can Army they flourished. Among their
strongest supporters were some of the
‘top brass’ they most bitterly attacked

and devastatingly lampooned. One of the
best of these periodicals was the Army
Weekly, Yank, which — the war ended —
issued this week its final number — Yank
will be missed by the peace time
soldier’ — Editorial in The New York
Times.

* *

“The Polish people are naturally very
worried about reports in the American
and British press about sending more
food to the Germans. The Germans are
professional whiners, and they seem to
be getting away with it. The Poles have
a pride and determination to help them-
selves and their need is vastly greater
than the Germans. If we fail in our
promise to help, our stock won’t stand
very high. At present, it is very high,
because UNNRA is there as a token of
our keeping our promise” — David Wills
in ABC broadcast.

(continued from page 5)
state department policy.

constitute a peacetime standard of living
at an earlier date than the countries
ravaged by German arms.

The security interest of the United
States and its allies requires the destruc-
tion in Germany of such industrial capital
equipment as cannot be removed as re-
paration and as can only be used for the
production of armaments or of metall-
urgical, machinery or chemical products
in excess of the peacetime needs of the
German economy. It is not, however,
the intention of the United States wanton-
ly to destroy German structures and in-
stallations which can readily be used for
permitted peacetime industrial activities
or for temporary shelter. It will evidently
be necessary to destroy specialised in-
stallations and structures used in ship-
building, aircraft, armaments, explosives,
and certain chemicals which cannot be
moved as reparation. Non-specialised in-
stallations and structures in the same

23

fields may have to be destroyed in sub-
stantial part, if not desired as reparation,
in cases of integrated industrial comp-
lexes the layout of which is such as sub-
stantially to facilitate reconversion from
peacetime to war purposes at some later
date. Finally, in removing equipment from
plants declared available for reparation,
no consideration should be given to with-
holding portions of the equipment des-
ired by a reparation recipient in order to
retain remaining installations and struct-
ures in more effective condition for
peacetime uses. Within these limits, how-
ever, the reparation and security policies
of the United States are not designed to
result in punitive destruction of capital
equipment of value to the German
peacetime economy.

DEFINITION OF GEOGRAPHICAL
LIMITS

For the purpose of determining the in-
dustrial capacity of the peacetime Ger-
man economy, thus eliminating its war

--- Page 27 ---
potential—the real basis on which the
amount and character of reparation
removals are to be calculated—it should
be assumed that the geographical limits
of Germany are those in conformity with
provisions of the Berlin declaration, those
of the Altreich, less the territory east of
the Oder/Neisse line.

DETERMINATION OF THE FUTURE
GERMAN STANDARD OF LIVING

The Berlin declaration furnishes as a
guide to removals of industrial equipment
as reparations the concept of a balanced
peacetime German economy capable of
providing the German people with a
standard of living not in excess of the
European average (excluding the United
Kingdom and the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics). In the view of the Depart-
ment of State, the Berlin declaration is
not intended to force a reduction in Ger-
man living standards except as such
reduction is required to enable Germany
to meet her reparation payments. In ef-
fect, the Berlin declaration merely pro-
vides that Germany’s obligation to make
reparation for the war damage which her
aggression caused to other countries
should not be reduced in order to enable
Germany to maintain a standard of liv-
ing above the European average. The De-
partment of State further interprets the
standard-of-living criterion to refer to the
year immediately following the two-year
period of reparation removals. For the
purpose of meeting requirements, Ger-
many’s industrial capacity after repara-
tion removal should be physically capable
of producing a standard of living equi-
valent to the European average in, say
1948. Given the difficult problems of ad-
ministration and economic organisation
which the German peacetime economy
will still face in 1948, it may be doubted
that industrial equipment remaining in
Germany at that time will in fact produce
at full capacity, so that the standard of
living realised in Germany is likely for

24

some time to fall short of the European
average.

It may be assumed that the European
standard of living in 1948 would ap-
proximate the average standard of living
over the period 1930-38. If this assump-
tion be adopted the German standard of
living chosen as a basis for estimating in-
dustrial capital equipment to remain in
Germany could be arrived at by use of
German consumption data in a year in
which the German standard of living, as
measured by national ‘income indices,
most closely approximates the 1930-38
average in Europe. The German consump-
tion standard in the year selected should
be subject to adjustment upwards or
downwards to compensate for any overall
difference between the German standard
in the year selected and the European
average. Past consumption records defin-
ed as suggested above are meant only as
a general guide. They would require the
following further adjustments: (a) Pro-
vision for change in population between
the year selected and 1948; (b) Adjust-
ment to allow for notable deviations in
pattern of German consumption in select-
ed year from normal pattern. (c) Allow-
ance to enable the German people to
make good, at reasonable rates of recon-
struction, the widespread damage to
buildings in Germany, and to the trans-
port system as scaled down to meet the
requirements of the German peacetime
ecqnomy. It is suggested that sufficient
additional resources beyond those re-
quired to provide the adjusted output of
the selected year should be left to over--
come the building shortage in 20 years
and to effect repairs to structures on rail
and road transport systems over five
years. (d) Sufficient resources should be
left to Germany to enable that country
after completion of industrial removals
and reactivation of remaining resources
to exist without external assistance. This
topic is more fully treated below.

In’ planning the peacetime Germany
economy, the interests of the United States

--- Page 28 ---
are confined to the industrial disarma-
ment of Germany and to the provision
of a balanced economic position at the
standard of living indicated. The United
States does not seek to eliminate or weak-
en German industries of a peaceful char-
acter, in which Germany has produced
effectively for world markets, for the
purpose of protecting American markets
from German goods, aiding American ex-
ports, or for any other selfish advantage.
Similarly the United States is opposed
to the attempt of any other country to
use the undustrial diarmament plan of
the Berlin declaration to its own
commercial ends at the expense of a
peacetime Germany economy. It is our
desire to see Germany’s economy geared
to a world system and not an autarchial
system.

THE FINANCING OF IMPORTS

In determining the volume of removals
for reparation purposes, the United States
should not approve removals on such a
scale that Germany would be unable,
owing to a shortage of capital equipment,
to export goods in sufficient quantities
to pay for essential imports. Thus
capacity should be left to enable Ger-
many to produce for export goods which
yield enough foreign exchange to pay for
the imports required for a standard of
living equal to the average in Europe,
excluding the United Kingdom and the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. In
this connexion, the following points
should be stressed: (a) In determining
the amount of capital equipment to be
retained in Germany, provision needs to
be made for capacity to produce exports
sufficient to pay for estimated current
imports. No allowance should be made
in German export industry to provide
capacity to pay for externally incurred
occupation costs, including import of
goods consumed by forces of occupation,
and troop pay not expended in Germany.
(b) The provision in the Berlin declara-
tion which stipulates that in organising

25

the German economy “primary emphasis
shall be given to the development of
agricultural and peaceful domestic indu-
stries” requires that maximum possible
provision be made for exports from
sources other than the metal, machinery
and chemical industries. (c) It is im-
plicitly recogfiised in the Berlin declar-
ation that the policy of industrial capital
equipment removals and the restriction
of exports in the fields of metals,
machinery and chemicals will require
countries which have previously depended
on Germany as a source of these products
to obtain them elsewhere. Since capacity
in the metal, machinery and chemical in-
dustries in exzes of German peacetime
needs is to be transferred to countries,
entitled to receive reparation from Ger-
many, it is expected that the industrial
capacity lost in Germany will after an
interval be recovered in large part
elsewhere in the world, and for the most
part in Europe. But is should be borne
in mind that the industry removed from
Germany will in the main replace in-
dustry destroyed by the Germans and
will not be sufficient to meet pre-war
demand. It should be emphasised, how-
ever, that any effort toward industrial
recovery in Germany must not be perm-
itted to retard reconstruction in European
countries which have suffered from Ger-
man aggression. (d) In determining the
amount of capacity required to strike
an export-import balance, the United Sta-
tes and other occupying powers cannot
in fact guarantee that the export-import
balance will be achieved. Their respons-
ibility is only to provide reasonable
opportunity for the attainment of balance
at the agreed minimum level of standard
of living. In fixing the amount of in-
dustrial capacity necessary for export,
the provision of margins of safety is
unnecessary if German’s export potent-
ial is estimated on a resonable basis. It
should be noted that if resources are left
to enable Germany to make good her
war damage and depreciation in housing

--- Page 29 ---
and transport over certain numbers of
years, as suggested above, extension of
the period in which such deficits are
liquidated would in case of need make
some additional capacity available for
production of export goods.

The neccesity which devolves upon the
United States and other occupying powers
to finance imports into Germany and
possibly to pay for such imports in the
next few years does not arise in the first
instance from the policy of reparation
removals agreed upon at Potsdam. The
German economy was brought virtually
to a standstill by Germany’s defeat, which
produced an almost complete breakdown
of transport, economic organisation, ad-
ministration and direction. If no removals
of industrial capital equipment were att-
epted, Germany would still require United
Nations aid in financing and possibly in
paying for minimum imports necessary
to prevent disease and unrest. Even after
substantial capital removals have been
completed, it is doubtful that the German
economy can operate for some time up
to the limits of remaining industrial capa-
city, due to the limited availability of fuel,
food, raw materials, and the slow progr-
ess which can be made in filling the gap
left by the Nazis in the economic and
political organisation of Germany. It is
possible, and even likely, that the physi-
cal transport of reparation removalsd will
limit transport capacity available for re-
covery of the German economy and for
the expansion of exports. It is in this
respect only, however, that the reparat-
ion policy laid down in the Berlin de-
claration may require the United Nations
to finance German imports for a longer
period, or to pay for them in greater
degree, than if no provision for reparation
from Germany had been made.

During the next two years, the United
States and other occupying powers must
finance minimum essential imports into
Germany to the extent that exports from
stocks and current production do not
suffice to cover the cost of such importss

26

Since the Berlin declaration makes no
provision with respect to the German
standard of living in the period of occup-
ation, the occupying powers are not ob-
liged to provide imports sufficient for the
attainment in Germany of a standard of
living equal to the European average. The
present standard of supply in Germany,
so far as the United States is concerned
is still governed by the “disease and
unrest” formula. Under conditions set
forth in the preceding paragraph, it will
prove desirable to extend the type and
volume of imports into Germany not only
because of our interest in avoiding disease
and unrest endangering our occupying
forces, but also because of our interest
in reactivating selected German export
industries which would yield a volume
of foreign exchange, and as ‘far as
possible to repay the past outlays of the
occupying powers on imports. If, when
the time comes for the conclusion of a
peace treaty with Germany, there
remains a backlog of unpaid imports,
the occupying powers will have to decide
whether or not to impose on Germany an
obligation to pay off the accumulated
deficit.

POLICY IN THE IMMEDIATE FUTURE

For the immediate future, and certainly
until next spring, military Government
authorities should concentrate on the re-
pair of transport, emergency repair of
housing and essential utilities and the
maximisation of coal and agricultural pro-
duction. Some coal will of course be
required in Germany to effect the mini-
mum repairs of transport, housing and
utilities called for in existing directives.
As long as coal and raw materials
remain in short supply in Europe, how-
ever, it is United States policy to make
them available in maximum quantities for
the revival of industrial output in liber-
ated areas. The maximisation of coal ex-
ports in accordance with existing direct-
ives will make it impossible to allocate
within Germany coal sufficient to attain

--- Page 30 ---
a significant volume of industrial product-
ion, and over the coming winter it will
limit activity even in fields directly
related to repair of transport, housing
and utilities, and to agriculture. If and
when the coal crisis in Europe is sur-
mounted—perhaps by next spring—it will
be possible to review the situation and
ascertain whether larger amounts of Ger-
man coal can be allocated for essential
industrial production in Germany, and in
particular, for the selective reactivation
of German export industries. The possi-
bilities in this direction will depend not
only on the satisfaction of coal require-
ments in liberated areas, but also on the
success of military government authori-
ties in raising German coal output and
restoring the German transport system.
Meanwhile military government authori-
ties should survey the fuel and raw
material requirements of German indus-
tries capable of supplying essential civil-
ian goods and manufacturing for export
so that as soon as coal and raw materials
can be made available, a programme for
selective reactivation of remaining in-
dustrial capacity in Germany can get
under way. In formulating this programme
attempt must be made to give priority
to industries, which, in relation to expen-
ditures of fuel and raw materials, will
contribute most toward striking an ulti-

27

mate export-import balance in Germany,
as well as to the satisfaction of the most
pressing internal requirements of the
German economy. ’

ROLE OF THE OCCUPYING
AUTHORITIES

The role of the occupying authorities in
the process of German revival should, in
general, be that of providing and setting
the conditions within which the Germans
themselves assume responsibility for the
performance of the German economy. To
this end, the occupying authorities should
devote primary attention in planning re-
vival to the development of German ad-
ministrative machinery, not only in the
fields of intrazonal production and trade
but in interzonal and international trade,
and in the application of common poli-
cies in transport, agriculture, banking,
currency, taxation, etc. As one aspect of
this process, denazification should be
satisfactorily completed during the
present period. For the rest, great im-
portance attaches toAhe conclusion with-
in the Allied Control Council of agree-
ments governing policies to be followed
in various aspects of the German eco-
nomy enumerated, and devising inter-
zonal German machinery for their
application.

--- Page 31 ---
Station List

Military Government Elements

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR

UNIT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER

UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

Office of

Mil Govt for

Germany (U.S.) Berlin

Office of

Mil Govt (U.S. Zone) Frankfurt

Office of Mil Govt
for Wirttemberg-
Baden Stuttgart

LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep)

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay

Maj Gen C L Adcock

Col W W Dawson

(APO 758)

Hq 1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Stuttgart Cot W W Dawson
Hq & Sv Co 1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Stuttgart Lt Wm E Snodgrass
Mobile Maint Plat., Hq & Sv Co

1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Zuffenhausen 1st Lt E Thompson
Hq 1st Mil Govt Med Gp Stuttgart

Wiirttemberg
E-1 Stuttgart Wiarttemberg Col W W Dawson
F-10 Stuttgart SK Stuttgart Lt Col C L Jackson
Fit Ulm SK-LK Ulm Lt Col I. L. Harlow
G-20 Aalen LK Aalen Maj J K Owen
G-21 Béblingen LK Boblingen Capt W A Becker
G-22 Crailsheim LK Crailsheim Lt Col R L Rogers
G-23 Esslingen LK Esslingen Lt Col J I Taylor
G-24 Gmind LK Gmind Capt J N Krajnak
G-25 Géppingen LK Géppingen Maj G W Ford
G-26 Schwabisch Hall LK Hall Maj W T Neel
G-27 Heidenheim LK Heidenheim Maj B V Bloom
G-28 Heilbronn LK Heilbronn Lt Col H M Montgomery
G-29 Ludwigsburg LK Ludwigsburg Capt H K Manson
G-30 Waiblingen LK Waiblingen Maj H W Freeman
H-50 Backnang LK Backnang Maj “G D Burchell
H-51 Heilbronn SK Heilbronn Maj M L Hoover
H-52 Kanzelsau LK Kanzelsau Capt W _L Straus
H-53 Leonberg LK Leonberg Cpt R S Deetz
H-54 Bad Mergentheim LK Mergentheim Capt S L Haber
H-55 Nartingen LK Niartingen Maj S A Warren
H-56 Ohringen LK Ohringen 1st Lt M Korson
H-57 Ulm Baden-Warttemberg Lt Col J M Gregory
H-58 Vaihingen LK Vaihingen Capt J G Cox

Landesbezirk North Baden

Co E Durlach Landesbezirk 1st Lt R T Lynch
E-7 Karlsruhe North Baden Col C Lisle

F-16 Mannheim SK-LK Mannheim Lt Col R S Smith
G-43 Heidelberg SK-LK Heidelberg Lt Col G P Kratz
G-46 Pforzheim SK-LK Pforzheim 1st Lt N. Semaschko
G-47 Karlsruhe SK-LK Karlsruhe Maj M S Pullen
H-87 Bruchsal LK Bruchsal Capt G T Daughters
H-88 Feudenheim Warehouse Opn Maj U1 E Kring
H-89 Buchen LK Buchen Maj J A McGuinness
H-90 Mosbach LK Mosbach Maj N O Moore
H-91 Tauberbischofsheim LK Tauberbischofsheim Capt J F Moyer
H-92 Sinsheim LK Sinsheim Capt G O Withey
1-137 Edingen Warehouse Opn Capt R L Shadwick

28

--- Page 32 ---
OFFICE OF

UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

LAND GREATER HESSE
Office of Mil Govt
for Land Greater Hesse
Wiesbaden
2d Mil Govt Bn (Sep)
(APO 758)
Hq 2d Mil Gvt Bn (Sep) Wiesbaden

Hq & Sv Co 2d Mit Govt Bn (Sep) Wiesbaden
Mobile Maint. Plat., Hq & Sv Co

2d Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Oberursel
Hq 2d Mil Govt Med Gp. Wiesbaden

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

E-5 Wiesbaden
E-6 Frankfurt
F-15 Wiesbaden

G-41 Wetzlar
H-77 Dillenburg

H-78 Gelnhausen

H-79 Hanau
H-80 Weilburg

H-81 Hofheim
H-83 Ridesheim

H-86 Bad Homburg

Regierungsbezirk Kassel
CoC Kirchhain
E-4 Kassel
F-14 Kassel

G-38 Fritzlar

G-39 Marburg
G-40 Fulda
G-48 —~  Korbach
H-65 Eschwege

H-67 Hersfeld
H-68 Hofgeismar

H-72 Kassel
ML-1 (Sp) Kassel

Regierungsbezirk Hessen

E-3 Darmstadt
F-12 Darmstadt
F.

'-13, Offenbach
G-31 Bensheim
G-32 Biidingen
G-33 Dieburg
G-34 Friedberg
G-35 Giessen
H-62 Lauterbach
DP-20 Darmstadt

BREMEN

E2C2 Bremen
G1c2 ‘Wesermiinde

RB Wiesbaden
SK Frankfurt
SK Wiesbaden
LK Wetzlar

LK Dillkreis &
LK Biedenkopf
LK Gelnhausen &
LK Schlichtern
SK-LK Hanau
LK Limburg &
LK Oberlahn
LK Maintaunus
LK Rheingau &
LK Untertaunus
LK Usingen &
LK Obertaunus

RB Kassel

RB Kassel

SK-LK Kassel &

LK Melsungen

LK Fritzlar-Homberg &

LK Ziegenhain

SK-LK Marburg

SK-LK Fulda & LK Hinfeld
LK Waldeck & LK Frankenberg
LK Eschwege &

LK Witzenhausen

LK Hersfeld &

LK Rotenburg

LK Hofgeismar &

LK Wolfhagen

Warehouse Opn

Liaison

RB Hessen

SK-LK Darmstadt &

LK Gross Gerau

SK-LK Offenbach

LK Bergstrasse & LK Erbach
LK Bidingen

LK Dieburg

LK Friedberg

SK-LK Giessen

LK Lauterbech & LK Alsfeld

Bremen Sub- District
SK-LK Wesermiinde

29

Gol J R Newman

Qol J R Newman
Capt T H Candon

Capt B Sturdevan
Lt Cot W H Riheldaffen

Col J R Newman
Lt Col R K Phelps
Lt Col F A Sansome
Lt Col E M Lee

Maj D B Bernstein

Maj M E Chotas
Maj T Turner Jr

Capt E F Duf
Cant jc Nola

Maj J G Gavin
Capt A L Yakoubian

‘1st Lt J F Owen
Lt Cot A Skarry

Lt Col R Bard

Capt G De Nubla
Maj L S_ Williams
Maj C F Russe

Maj E J Dikeman

Capt W B Getmann
Maj T T Turnbull

Capt S C Moore Jr
Capt J R Newell
ist Lt M Rogin

Lt Col R W Copeland
Lt Col L G Kelly

Capt E J Emerick
Maj A C Leggatt
1st Lt T A Norris
Capt J M Nutt Jr.
Maj R J Willard
Maj D M Easterday
Capt H Nickelsberg
1st Lt A J Peyser

Lt Col B C Welker
Lt Col L S Diggs

--- Page 33 ---
OFEJCE OF

UNIT; .LOCATION . MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

LAND BAVARIA.
Office of
Mil Govt for
Bavaria Munich

3d Mil Govt Regt
. (APO 403)

Hq 3d Mil Govt Regt Augsbur;
Ha Co Augsbure. al
Sv Co y..jAugsburg:

1st Maint Plat Augsburg

2d Maint Plat) Uttenreuth

3d Maint Plat” Straubing
R & T Co Augsburg
3d MG Med Det: Munich
3d MG Med Sec. Augsburg

Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken
CoA — Ochsenturt
E-202 | Warzhurg RB Mainfranken
F-210 Warzburg . SK-LK Warzburg
G-220 Aschaffenburg SK-LK Aschaffenburg
G-221 Schwein furt SK-LK Schweinfurt
H-250 Bad Kissingen Lk ingen
H-251 Kitzingen LK ingen
1-330 Alzenau, LK Alzenau
1-331 Brickenau LK Brackenau
1-332 Ebern LK Fhern
1-333 Gemiinden, LK Geminden
1-334 Gerolzhofen LK Gerolzhofen
1-335 Hammelburg LK Hammelburg
1-336 Hassfurt LK Iassfurt
1-337 Hofheim LK Hofheim
1-338 Karlstadt LK Karlstadt
1-339 Kénigshofen LK Kénigshofen
1-340 Lohr LK Lohr.
1-341 Marktheidenfeld LK Marktheidenfeld
1-342 Mellrichstadt LK Melfrichstadt
1-343 Miltenberg LK Miltenherg
1-344 Neustadt Saale LK Neustadt a. d. Saale
1-345 Obernburg LK Obernburg
1-346 Ochsenfurt LK Ochsenfurt

Regierungsbezirk Ober & Mittelfranken

Co C Ansbach

E-203 Ansbach RB Ober and Mittelfranken
F-211 Narnberg SK-LK Narnherg

G-228 Anshach SK-LK Anshach

G-229 Farth SK-LK Firth

H-261 Dinkelsbihl LK Dinkelshahl

H-262 Eichstadt LK ‘Eichstadt

H-263 Feuchtwangen LK Feuchtwangen
H-264 Gunzenhausen LK Gunzenhausen
11-265 Hersbruck LK Hersbruck

H-266 Hilpoltstein LK Hilpoltstein

H-267 Weissenburg LK Weissenburg

H-268 Rothenburg LK Rothenburg

H-269 Schwabach LK Schwabach

H-270 Scheinfeld LK Scheinfeld

H-271 Windsheim LK Uffenheim

H-272 Lauf LK Lauf

H-273 Neustadt a. d. Aisch LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch

30

Brig Gen W. J. Muller

Lt Col. F W: Sutton
Capt Wm Irwin
Capt J. .P Cline
Capt JP Cline
2nd Lt Stuckert

‘Ist Lt CT Enbody

Capt T J May
Jt Col C Shields
May M J Kanner

ist Lt R E Handwerk
Lt Col M E Ilenderson
Lt Col J B Bradford
May C M Emerick
Lt Col J B. Thomson
Capt M A Potter
Capt L_A Mercadante
1st Lt K’L Ellis

Maj H_ B Clark Jr
1st Lt RW Jones
Capt K H Callaway
Capt_J_M. Sinion
Maj E G Emery
Capt T F Griffen
Capt W O Hitt

Capt WE Brayden
Capt A W Peterson
Capt Elmer E Kelly
Maj M_ B Voorhees
Lt L K Owens

Capt D J Huffman
Capt E F Warnke
Maj B H Logan
Capt H A Storm

1st Lt G N Hultzen
Col E M Haight

Col C H Andrews
Lt Col W R Whitaker Jr.
Maj J D Cofer

Lt Col JW Wall
Maj W T Stoats
Capt J F Begle
Maj HW Zurn.
Maj H R Glaser
Maj H T Lund
Capt J J Carr

Maj R C Anderson
Maj R E Stringer
May HC Kauffmann
Maj S Klein

Maj E N Humphrey
Maj F K Hinchey

--- Page 34 ---
UNIT LOCATION®:'

Co B
G-222
G-223
G-224
G-225
G-226
G-227
G-247
H-252
H-253
H-254

Bamberg
Bamberg
Bayreuth
Erlangen
Coburg
Kronach

Hof
Lichtenfels
Ebermannstadt
Hochstadt
Kulmbach
Pegnitz
Munchberg
Rehau
Wunseidel
Forcheim
Nuila *
Stadtsteinach

OFFICE OF
MILITARY. GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

SK-LK Bamberg

SK-LK Bayreuth

LK Erlangen

SK-LK Coburg

LK Kronach

SK-LK Hof

LK Lichtenfels

LK Ebermannstadt .
LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
LK Kulmbach

LK Pegnitz

LK Munchberg

LK Rehau

LK Wunseidel

LK Forcheim

LK Naila

LK Stadtsteinach

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern & Oberpfalz

Co D
E-204
F-212
G-230

G-244
H-274
H-275
H-276
H-277
H-278
H-279
1-349
1-350
1-351
1-352
1-353
1-354
1-355
1-356
1-357
1-358
Co H
G-243
G-245
G-246
H-301
H-302
H-303
H-304
H-305
H-306
H-307
H-308
H-309
H-310
1-375
1-377
1-378
1-379
1-380
1-381
1-382
1-383
1-385

Regensburg
Regensburg
Regensburg
Weiden

Amberg
Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunburg
Eschenbach
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldminchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Regensburg
Passau
Landshut
Straubing
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsiburg
Freyun;
Bogen 6
Dingol fing
Grieshach
Kétzting
Mainburg
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
Wegscheid

RB Niederbayern & Oberpfalz
SK-LK Regensburg

SK Weiden &

LK Neustadt a. d. Wald
SK-LK Amberg

LK Cham

LK Burglengenfeld

LK Parsberg

LK Tirschenreuth

LK Neunburg vorm Wald
LK Eschenbach i. d. Opf.
LK Kemnath

LK Nabburg

LK Oberviechtach

LK Riedenberg

LK Vohenstrauss

LK Roding

LK Waldminchen

LK Beilngries

LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg

SK-LK Passau
SK-LK Landshut
SK-LK Straubing
LK Deggendorf
LK Eggenfelden
LK Grafenau
LK Kelheim

LK Landau a. d. Isar
LK Pfarrkirchen
LK Regen

LK Vilshofen
LK Vilsibur;

LK Wolfstein
LK Bogen

LK Dingolfing
LK Griesbach
LK Kétzting

LK Mainburg
LK Mallersdorf
LK Rottenburg
LK Viechtach
LK Wegscheid

31

2d. Lt. B- Lyons
Maj J A Watkins
Lt Col C J Reilly
Capt E H Dye

Lt Col H Lockland
Maj I I Woodall Jr.
Maj A R Giroux

Lt Col J R Case

1st Lt J J) Bianchi
Maj R G Hanford
Lt Col P°B Lamson
Maj M F Skinner
Maj A C Abbott
Maj RH Dodds

Maj D IL Alexander
Lt Col F- Robie
Capt H W Newell
1st Lt H F Casademont

1st Lt H L Gross
Lt Col Hasting
Maj C G Doyle

Maj J C Robertson Jr.
Maj J H Mattox
Maj CE McDaniel
Capt E Fichter
Capt R E Boyd
Maj F P Murray
Capt S P Ilimic
Capt W R Baylies
Capt E E Wilson
Maj G_ Doyle
Capt R A Berry
Capt B J Tutska
Capt S_Lesneski
Capt CR Bucheit
1st Lt L_ Henry
Capt J J Mallon
Capt W N Blanton
Capt A J Dano
1st Lt W S Mather
Maj E Cofran

Maj H J Mrachek
Maj H T Olsen
Capt L C Smallenberger
Maj E W Manning
Capt S Perlman
Capt C T Hutson
Capt G C McCall
Capt W D Baird
Capt A_R Sphar
Capt W J Fitzpatrick
Capt J W Fleshman
Capt R W Douglass
Capt A G Albert
Capt M O Smith
Capt A S Gallant
Capt G E Peterson
Maj W Wickersham
Capt S R Jacobs
Capt E J Zabcick
Capt A L Corcelius
Capt H Walter

--- Page 35 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Co F Munich

E-205 Munich

F-213 Munich

G-236 Partenkirchen
G-237 Ingolstadt
G-238 Munich

H-286 Farstenfeldbruck
H-287 Landsberg
H-288 Pfaffenhofen
H-289 Starnberg
H-290 Weilheim
H-291 Wolfratshausen
1-362 Aichach

1-364 Schrobenhausen
1-367 Dachau

1-368 Schéngau

Go E Wasserburg
G-231 Freising

G-232 Miesbach
G-233 Traunstein
G-234 Altétting
G-235 Rosenheim
H-280 Erding

H-281 Laufen

H-282 Mihldorf
H-283 Wasserburg
H-284 Bad Télz
H-285 Aibling

H-311 Berchtesgaden
1-361 Ebersberg

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Co G Ziemetshausen
E-206 Augsburg
F-214 Augsburg
G-239 Dillingen
G-240 Weissenhorn
G-241 Sonthofen
G-242 Kempten
H-292 Donauwérth
H-293 Ginzberg
H-294 Markt Oberdorf
H-295 Memmingen
H-296 Mindelheim
H-297 Neuberg
H-298 Nérdlingen
H-299 Fassen

H-300 Krambach
1-369 Illertissen
1-370 © Kaufbeuren
1-372 Wertingen
1-373 Friedberg
1-374 Schwabmiinchen

Office of

Mil Govt

(U.S. Sector

Berlin) Berlin

RB Oberbayern
SK-LS Munich

LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen
SK-LK Ingolstadt
LK Munich

LK Farstenfeldbrack
LK Landsberg

LK Pfaffenhofen
LK Starnberg

LK Weilheim

LK Wolfratshausen
LK Aichach

LK Schrobenhausen
LK Dachau

LK Schéngau

LK Freising

LK Miesbach

LK Traunstein
LK Altétting
SK-LK Rosenheim
LK Erding

LK Laufen

LK Mahldorf

LK Wasserburg
LK Talz

LK Aibling

LK Berchtesgaden
LK Ebersberg

RB Schwaben
SK-LK Augsburg
LK Dillingen

LK Neu Ulm

LK Sonthofen
SK-LK Kempten
LK Donauwérth
LK Ganzberg

LK Markt Oberdorf
LK Memmingen
LK Mindelheim
LK.Neuberg a. d. Donau
LK Nordlingen

LK Fissen

LK Krumbach

LK Illertissen

LK Kaufbeuren

LK Wertingen

LK Friedberg

LK Schwabmiinchen

U.S. SECTOR, BERLIN DISTRICT

U.S. Sector, Berlin District
(APO 755)

32

Ist Lt W M Ellis
Lt Col J W Hensel
Lt Cot E Keller Jr
Lt Cor C H Heyl
Maj L H Norins
Maj M T Mawrence
Capt J J McBride
Maj C E Carlsen
Maj C A Sloat
Maj M W Nitz
Capt R J O'Dowd
Maj P L Steers
Capt L R_ Day
Maj R G Hill Jr
Capt V A Burke
Maj C A Rein
Capt D E Brown
Maj A G Snow
Maj L L Haupt
Maj C J Bischoff
Maj R L Montague
Capt R H Necel
Capt H J Bierman
Maj S L Jones Jr
Capt D S Root
Capt M J Groves
Lt Col J Letteriello
Maj E J Newmeyer
Maj M E DiPietro
Maj G E Horwarth

Capt O Meirhenry
Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Maj Darragh

{Capt J M Latimer
Capt Horrell

Capt B M Ziegler
Capt L A Proper
Capt M Glossop
Capt J O Renalds
Maj R F Wagner
Maj E C Bunker
Capt W H_ Oswalt
Capt S H Brown
Capt S D Lubin
Capt C E Witney
Capt F E Kettunen
Maj E M_ Ross
Capt R E Hale
Capt J G Van Oot
Capt L E Smith Jr

Col F L Howley