--- Page 2 ---
“NO. 25 — 19 JANUARY 1946

Military Government

Weekly
Information Bulletin

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
WESTERN MILITARY DISTRICT
GREAT HESSE, NORTH WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

?3 OCTOBER 1945

SS:
e. BRITISH ZONE

FRANKENBERS LO Seqiz7, YE

fen ee: { Rotensurs

ZIEGEN- BY a ™,
warn (NERSFELO

RUSSIAN

ZONE

< ort S

LEGEND 5 hee

RED REGIERUNGSBEZIANE ANO ie
LANDESBEZIRK ADEN f ipsacen coreinacy
BLACK — LANDKREISE AND STADTKREISE s

TATISTIGS SECTION

SOURCE OMG RG! BRANCH C GEN STAFF USFET

Pac, io

--- Page 4 ---
NO. 25 — 19 JANUARY 1946

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
CONTENTS

Military Government

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY.

Will The Germans Welcome Democracy? .
Transportation Is Our Business .

Paris Conference .

GENERAL .

Retention Status of Officers. .
Official Redeployment Information

Influenza Control .

GERMAN REACTIONS .

Political Parties As Seen By A Social Democrat .

PRESS COMMENTS
Occupation Failures .
Soldier Protests
Dean of St. Paul's .
Civil Administration .

Random Comments .

Station List (omitted for revision)

PAGE

- 11
- 16

. 18

. 18

- 18

~ 19

- 20

. 20

. 23
. 23
. 24
. 24
. 25
. 25

--- Page 7 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT LETTERS AND
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED DURING THE WEEK

Amendments to the Directive to Commanding Generals,
Military Districts, dated 7 July 1945, Subject: Administration
of Military Government in the U. S. Zone of Germany.

Amendment to Annex A (Removal of Nazis and
Militarists in the German Reichsbahn and other
Fields of Transport) file AG 014.3 GEC-AGO,
26 November 1945... . . » 10 January 1946
AG 014.3 GEC-AGO

Control Council Law No. 10 (Punishment of
Persons Guilty of War Crimes Against the Peace
and Against humanity) as Annex J-10 . . . 12January 1946
AG 014.1 GEC-AGO

U. S. Troops in Aid of Civil Authority . . . Co, 10 January 1946
AG 370.6 GEC-AGO

Use of Germans as Guards, Nightwatchmen, and Private

Detectives ©. 2 6 6 ee ee eee ee ee ee ee 14 January 1946
AG 370.073 GEC-AGO

--- Page 8 ---
Hightights of Poticy

ti

The Gemeinden Elections may help
to answer the question........

Will the Germans Welcome Democracy?

To the polls for the next two Sundays
will go the Germans of the American
Zone who live in Gemeinden (townships)
which have populations of 20,000 or less
to cast their votes for local councils in
the first democratic election in 12 years.
Eight short months ago the sound of ar-
tillery fire was ringing in their ears.
Today they are undergoing their first
practical lesson in the democratic process
of a free election.

Residents of approximately 11,000 Ge-
meinden will elect local councils of from
five or six to over 20 members depending
upon the size of the Gemeinde. In the
smaller Gemeinden of Bavaria, they will
also elect biirgermeister. In other Ge-
meinden, biirgermeister will be appoint-
ed by the newly-elected councils. The
U.S. Zone is the first of the four oc-
cup:ed zones to ho!d any election.

The elections are scheduled for the
27th in both Bavaria and Baden-Wirttem-
berg. The Gemeinden of 17 Kreise of
Greater Hessen will elect on the 20th
and the remaining 22 Kreise on the 27th.
The elections are being held on Sundays,
because it is the German custom to hold
elections on that day when people will
not be working and will be able to vote.
Military Government officials estimated
that most of the Germans who are eligible
to vote will do so, since they are in the
habit of voting. Under the, Weimar
Republic, a heavy fine was imposed for
failure to vote.

Campaigning has been solely on a local
scale because of the shortage of trans-
portation and gasoiine, travel restrictions

on civilians, the problem of food for
transients, and lack of fuel to heat as-
sembly halls for meetings. Poster cam-
paigning has been the most extensive,
even though there was a noticeable lack
of this.

Party platforms show a great sameness.
They are for the most part stated in vague
and substantially similar terms which
avoid discussion of important issues. Since
the scope of social and economic plan-
ning is not yet known, it is difficult to
frame social and economic issues into a
piatform for that reason. Hence, political
parties have been playing up cooperation
with Military Government as a platform
highlight.

DELAY PLEA OVERRULED

The three minister presidents of the
zone asked that the elections be postpon-
ed because they felt the Germans
could not get ready for them in time and
that political parties were not weil enough
organized on a local scale. However, after
inspection Military Government officers
found that there would be no insur-
mountable technical difficulties involved
in holding elections this month. Officials
expect some ragged situations but said
that these should not be greater than oc-
cur in normal elections.

Wide sections of the population
consider that the parties and leaders
which present themselves today are to a
large extent the same as were unable to
solve the problems of the Weimar Re-
public or prevent the coming of Hitler,
and that these leaders seem now to put

--- Page 9 ---
forward very little that looks new or
constructive. Under these circumstances,
some politically conscious Germans sug-
gested that the scheduling of elections
in the U.S. Zone is premature and cannot
lead to a genuine expression of well-defin-
ed popular opinions. It was never expect-
ed, however, that the forthcoming elec-
tions can accomplish a sudden political
maturity on the part of the German
people. They are intended, rather, to
initiate the population into the dem-
ocratic process as quickly as possible.

FIVE MAJOR PARTIES

Another argument put forth for the
postponement of the January elections
was that the weather is cold, and the
people are hungry and not interested in
politics. However, the trend has been to
turn over as quickly as possible the
responsibility of governmental organiza-
tion and civil administration to the Ger-
mans themselves. Although the weather
is bad, Military Government officers feel
that the impact of winter suffering will
be greater in February and March and
will be felt until summer.

A breakdown of the political parties in
the U.S. Zone shows that there are five
major political parties and 12 lesser ones.
The five major parties are the Social
Democratic Party, Communist Party,
Christian Democratic Party or Christian
Social Union, Democratic Party, and Lib-
eral Democratic Party.

The 12 remaining parties are organized
on a local scale. Some are related to one
of the major parties. They are: United
Democratic Block, Democratic Club,
Democratic Block, Bayerische Volks-
partei, Antifa (Anti-Fascist), Christian
Rural Population, Labor Party, Rhein-
gau Christian Party, Schwabischer Bund,
Christian Social People’s Party, and
Economic Reconstruction Party.

The following is a breakdown of the
organized political parties in the zone
as to tendency:

Left: Communist Party, Labor Party,
Antifa.

Left Center: SPD (Social Democratic
Party).

Center: Christian Democratic ‘Party,
Christian Social Union, Bayerische Volks-
partei, Christian Rural Population, Rhein-
gau Christian Party, Christian Social
People’s Party.

Right: Democratic Party, Liberal Dem-
ocratic Party, United Democratic Block,
Democratic Club, Democratic Block.

Three of the parties, Volkspartei, Eco-
nomic Reconstruction Party, and Schwa-
bischer Bund, are listed as miscellaneous.

Military Government officials said that
the vast majority of the January elections
will have no party tickets. They will be
mainly a question of personalities. This
is uncommon in Germany, a:though non-
partisan tickets are a common and pop-
ular practice in American local  elec-
tions. Local government officials feel that
this will be a good education in democ-
racy for the Germans because it will
show them that they don’t need political
parties to have an election.

GROWTH OF POLITICAL ACTIVITY

The first outstanding development af-
fecting the political life in Germany took
place in August. It was the decision of
the Tripartite Conference in Potsdam,
announced on August 2, to give “the
German people... the opportunity to
prepare for the eventual reconstruction
of their life on a democratic and peaceful
basis.” As one means of stimulating this
reconstruction, the Conference further
announced that “all democratic political
parties with rights of assembly and of
public discussion shall be allowed and
encouraged throughout Germany.”

While “democratic political parties”
had been permitted in the Soviet Zone
since June, political life in the U.S. Zone
had previously rested under a ban on
political activity, which continued from

--- Page 10 ---
the commencement of occupation through
most of August. Military Government
directives prohibited political parties and
other forms of political activity, though
they encouraged the use by Military Gov-
ernment officers of advisory councils
representative of democratic forces and
groups in the community. On August 27,
a revised directive was promulgated for
the U.S. Zone, under which Military Gov-
ernment officers could accept and ap-
prove applications for permission toform
“democratic political parties to engage in
political activities at the Kreis level.”

The first four months of occupation
saw little formation of a political pattern
in the U.S. Zone. Informal and prepara-
tory organizational work was undoubtedly
going on in August throughout the zone.
Communists and Social Democrats were
most active in this respect, especially
fn the urban centers,

In early September, it was noted that
there was comparatively great political
activity in the larger cities of the Ameri-
can Zone of Occupation, in response to
the previously granted permission to re-
organize political parties. However,
measured by an absolute standard, the
German population at this time was still
politically dormant. U.S. officials ob-
served that there existed no mass political
movement of any sort. Such party or-
ganization as occurred was inspired by a
handful of leaders rather than by a mass
demand from the people. The leaders)
were generally hold-overs from the days
before Hitler’s advent to power.

PARTIES ARE FORMED

Parties were formed during September
in all the large cities in the American
Zone under directives permitting party
activities at the Kreis level. In Stuttgart,
Frankfurt, and Kassel, the Communist
and Social Democratic parties showed
-the most activity. The same parties, al-
though not fully organized, were active
in Munich. Organization meetings were at-

tended in all four cities by moderate-sized
and orderly groups.

In the four cities mentioned above,
non-clerical parties of a center or slightly
left-center orientation were formed cor-
responding fairly closely to the Christian
Democratic Union in Berlin. In some
cities, a fourth party had been formed
which was roughly similar to the Liberal
Democratic Party in Berlin. Variously
named, this party rejected any religious
basis for its program, which chiefly dif-
ferentiated it from the Christian Demo-
cratic parties.

It was noticed at this time that in plat-
forms and meetings, all parties refrain-
ed from doctrinal discussions. They all
concentrated on the reconstruction prob-
lems of the moment and so far as basic
principles were concerned, they all ex-
pressed support for ideals of democracy
and called for cooperation with Mili-
tary Government and thorough denazifica-
tion of German life.

DEMOCRACY TAKES SLOWLY

In the smaller cities, the stirrings of
party organization were faint, and inmost
of the rural districts they were non-
existent. Military Government observers
found that, in general, even including the
major part of the urban population, the
German masses seemed psychologically
unready for self-government and ignorant
of democratic processes and responsibili-
ties. They stated that a long period of
political organization and political educa-
tion will be necessary before the Ger-
man people can be safely entrusted with
complete control of their own government.

Organized political party activity in-
creased during October, with the Social
Democrats and Communists supplying the
main drive. The pre-1933 tendency toward
a multiplicty of parties, many of them

-differing ‘only slightly in doctrine, was

again manifesting itself. By the end: of
October, 45 local groups at the Kreis
level had been authorized in Bavaria, re-

--- Page 11 ---
presenting ten separate parties. Eighteen
of these locals were Social Democrat, 14
Communist, center, and left, including
one local of the former Bavarian People’s
Party. A similar situation prevailed in
Baden-Wirttemberg and Greater Hessen.

It was noted in October, as in previous
months, political activity was principally
confined to the circles of those materially
interested in devoting most of their time
to it. The public continued to be politic-
ally apathetic with a few signs of a
revival of political thinking. The time
consuming effort required merely to keep
alive and to prepare for the coming winter
leaves few hours and little energy for
other activities. Impressed by the per-
secution of anti-nazi party activists under
Hitler, and by the prosecution of nazis
today, many preferred to stay clear of all
parties.

CODES EXCLUDE NAZIS

During October, local government elec-
tion codes. were received from the ap-
pointed German officials in the -three
Lander of the zone. The Greater Hessen
and North Wiirttemberg codes were re-
visions. of the German local government
code issued in 1935. and are designed to
eliminate nazi ideas institutions, . dis-
criminations, and phraseology. The codes
of Bavaria and North Baden drew heavily

on pre-1933 legislation.

Military Government officials noted
with interest at the time that all codes
provided for the exclusion of nazis from
public office. One-half of the codes sub-
mitted, and these from officials represent-
ing the larger units of the American Zone,
also proposed the exclusion from fran-
chise privileges of nazis and also the
officials of affiliated organizations.

Although political organizing. continued
in'‘localities all over the U.S. Zone in
“November, it was - apparent ‘that for
‘various reasons the German masses still
remained aloof from formal political life.

They welcomed the grant of increased
powers and responsibility to local and
state German administrations, but so
long as these administrations were not
popularly elected and were answerable
to a foreign Military Government, the
people found it difficult to regard po-
litical parties as a needed link between
themselves and their governments.

A total of 233 local political groupings
had been formed in the U.S. Zone by
the first of November. These local par-
ties existed in 114 of the Kreise, leav-
ing 138 Kreise still without organized
political groups. New groups were con-
stantly springing into being, and
reports from Bavaria at the end of
November indicated that the number of
authorized parties grew from 87 to 128
during the course of the month.

Parties of the left — Communists and
Social Democrats — were the most active
again in November. A moderate increase
in activity was noticeable on the part
of more conservative groups representing
center and middle class elements —
Christian Democrats.

WIDER ACTIVITY AUTHORIZED

In order that political development
might keep pace with the strengthening
of the state governments, a directive was
issued on November 23 authorizing state-
wide political parties, subject to approval
by Military Government in the case of
each party desiring to organize on such
a basis. This was expected to clarify
the somewhat confusing political picture
created by so many small local parties.
It was estimated at that time that prev-
iously unrelated groups would probably
merge to form state-wide parties.

-To date, the following political parties
have been authorized to organize on a
Land level: SPD (Social Democratic Par-
ty), KPD (Communist Party), Christian
Democratic ‘Party whichis also’ known
as the Christian Social Union, and the
Liberal Democratic Party.

--- Page 12 ---
The directive on local government codes
and elections was also approved and
issued by the Office of Military Govern-
ment on November 23. It directed that
local councils would be elected in ap-
proximately. 11,000 Gemeinden in Jan-
uary. Included were directions for bar-
ring nazis and their sympathizers from
voting at this election..The setting up of
the codes was considered by Military
Government officials to be an important
step toward restoring the representative
basis of local democracy which Hitler
destroyed 12 years ago and toward forc-
ing the Germans to assume a greater
share of responsibility in their own af-
fairs. The directive specifically excluded
Stadtkreise and other Gemeinden with
more than 20,000 population from the
January elections.

According to the directive, Military
Government’s role will be merely to
supervise and facilitate. To avoid any
possible charge of bias, prejudice, or
favoritism on the part of military person-
nel, the attitude of Military Government
will be to maintain a “hands off” policy
towards politics and election matters, ex-
cept to insure fair, orderly, and impartial
elections.

RESPONSIBILITY DELEGATED

It was pointed out that the directive
purposely left many things to the Ger-
man Land governments. At the time of
issue of the directive, local government
codes (Gemeindeordnungen) had already
been drafted by the Land governments
and approved by the Office of Military
Government for Germany (US). They
contained provisions relating to the suf-
frage, the method of election which may
be either proportional representation or
majority election system, terms of office,
organization and powers of Gemeinde gov-
ernments, and similar matters. The details
relating to the conduct of elections are
found in Land Wahlordnungen, which
with the Gemeindeordnungen constitute
the German law governing elections.

VOTING REQUIREMENTS

German citizenship for purposes of vot-
ing is defined by the new directive which
prescribes minimum age of .21 years for
both men and women, and that not:more
than one year may be required as a
residence qualification for voting. A Land
government ‘may set any residence re-
quirement for voting, not to exceed one
year, This was the maximum residence
requirement permitted under the Weimar
Constitution of 1919. In these elections,
Bavaria and Baden-Wirttemberg require
‘a one year residence while Greater Hes-
sen requires six months. The screening
of refugees and displaced Germans
throughout the entire zone who meet the
residence requirement for voting present-
ed a major technical problem. They must
all be screened before election day by
German officials to see if they had any
affiliation with the nazi party. This
process was greatly facilitated by ref-
erence to Fragebogen.

Four categories are to be used in ex-
cluding nazis from voting, the directive
set forth. First, persons in the mandatory
arrest categories, unless already released
from arrest, are excluded from suffrage.
Persons released from arrest may be dis-
qualified if they come within one of the
other three categories.

The second category includes nazi par-
ty members and the SS. No person who
has been at any time a member of the SS
may vote. Any person who joined the
nazi party before May i, 1937, or who
was an active party member may not
vote. An active member is one who has
been an official officer or non-commis-
sioned officer of the party or who has
otherwise demonstrated that he was more
than a nominal participant in its activi-
ties,

In the third category are officials, of-
ficers, or non-commissioned officers at
any time of the SA, Hitler-Jugend, Bund
Deutscher Madel, NSD-Studentenbund,
NSD-Docentenbund, NS-Frauenschaft, NS-

--- Page 13 ---
Kraftfahrkorps, and NS-Fliegerkorps. Of-
ficials or officers of the Party organiza-
tions. (Gliederungen) and of the associat-
ed -organizations (angeschlossene Ver-
biinde) are excluded from voting, except
insofar as they are not party members.
With the terms “officials, officers, and
non-commissioned officers” are included
all persons whose functions and respon-
sibilities in the party and the party organi-
zations entailed any duty or authority
beyond that of ordinary members.

The fourth category excluded from vot-
ing is “known nazi sympathizers and
collaborators”. This category is not in-
tended to be indiscriminately used, but
to be invoked only where the evidence
of sympathy or collaboration is clear and
where it is not possible to disfranchise
under the other three categories.

MANY TO BE EXCLUDED

Undoubtedly a large number of Ger-
mans will be kept from voting under
the four excluded categories, Military
Government officers stated, but this does
not necessarily mean that all such per-
sons will be permanently disfranchised.
German Land governments will later be
given an opportunity to work out
methods for restoring the suffrage to Ger-
mans who have been cleared. For the
present, however, the men and women
responsible for wrecking democracy in
Germany will not be allowed to parti-
cipate in the elections of the post-Hitler
era.

The administration of denazification of
voters will be carried out according to
the methods prescribed by the Land gov-
ernments in consultation with the Land
Offices of Military Government. The
method will be left to the Germans them-
selves. The directive suggested that the
Land governments may choose to entrust
the responsibility to the regular precinct
and Gemeinde election committees, .or
they may institute special fragebogen
filled out by the voters themselves, as

10

was done with considerable success in
recent elections in Austria.

Military Government officers are not call-
ed on to screen the voter, but will judge
and report through Military Government
channels the adequacy of the German
effort. The directive stated, however, that
candidates must be qualified voters, and
that Military Government officers at the
Kreise level are responsible for disap-
proving candidates “who have not been
completely cleared of nazi ideology.”
Canditates who are late-comers may be
permitted to run, but will be disqualified
after election if found to come within
the excluded categories.

In a sharp analysis of the fundamental
political problems in the American Zone,
Military Government officials stated that
the leadership of the parties is old. This
may prevent parties from being dynamic
and meaningful. Persons interested in pol-
itics are those who were in party
oganizations before 1933. Since then many
of the best “brains” have died naturally
or were eliminated by the nazis.

It is historically true that the control
of political parties in Germany is bureau-
cratic. Control is from the top down and
can be most rigorous. The fact that most
Gemeinden elections had party tickets
before 1933 as opposed to small municipal
elections in the U.S. indicates a lack of
local political self determination, officials
said.

YOUTH NOT INTERESTED
Youth is not interested in politics. This

‘is true because the youth of Germany has

had no political experience or education.
Hitler-Jugend activities were entered by
many of the most able youth. Others
spent their entire adulthood in the army
and may yet be prisoners of war. War
casualties took a heavy toll of Germany’s
young men.

The entire German population is afraid
of political parties. It has seen the sad
fate of party members under the Weimar

(Continued on page 15)

--- Page 14 ---
Transportation is our Business..

. » but MG is giving the operational responsibilities of the railroads
and waterways bac fo the Germans.

Military Government is now in the
Transportation business. On January 1,
1946, the Theater Service Forces bowed
out of the job of running and supervising
the German railroads and inland water-
‘ways and military Government took over.

Taking over any huge transportation
system is a herculean task, even in the
peaceful United States. But the problems
which the Transportation Division of Mili-
tary Government has been handed in war-
torn Germany, makes such a job a trifl-
ing matter by comparison.

Military Government is not going to
play uncle to the German transportation
system very long. It intends to have the
German civilian organizations solve their
own problems, and run their own
systems, within limitations determined by
Military Government. But Military Gov-
ernment has two jobs to accomplish

before and during the time the civilian
” organization takes over complete control.
One is to develop a plan whereby the
German railroads and waterways will not
rise again as a war industry, and the
second is to completely denazify the two
systems. However, while all this is being
accomplished adequate transportation
must be maintained.

RAILROADS A WAR INDUSTRY

As in all other phases of their econom-
ic and industrial planning, the Germans
built their railroad systems for war. Their
engineers did not design passenger sta-
tions to handle peak loads of mérry vaca-
tion travellers. Instead, they planned for
handling overwhelming quantities of grim,
pack-laden soldiers. They did not build
their freight stations and yards for peak

11

loads of furniture, clothing, and other
peacetime commodities; they planned
these stations and yards to handle the
enormous quantities of tanks, munitions,
and other goods required to satisfy the
ravenous appetite of a war machine.

The German railroads were able ‘to
do: this long-range planning because they
were organized into a single system,
known as the Reichsbahn, back in 1920.
The Reichsbahn, an amalgamation of all
the railways of the individual Lander,
was directly owned and operated by the
state, through the Ministry of Transport.
In 1924, under the Dawes plan, the
Reichsbahn was transferred into a spe-
cially created company called the Deutsche
Reichsbahn Gesellschaft, to comply with
agreements made with the Allied Gov-
ernments after the last war. But in 1927
the reparation liabilities were terminated
and the railroad organization reverted to
what could in essence be defined as a
state owned enterprise. The nature of this
state organization is defined in the
Reichsbahn Law of 1939, which gave it
considerable measure of financial, admini-
strative and operating autonomy.

REICHSBAHN ORGANIZATION

The headquarters of the Reichsbahn
was combined with the Railway Depart-
ment of the Ministry of Transport. The
posts of the Minister of Transport and
General Manager of the Reichsbahn be-
came one, giving strong centralized con-
trol. The headquarters organization was
responsible for all matters of policy, but
not for routine control and day-by-day
operations. These functions were carried
out by the Reichsbahndirektionen, (Divi-

--- Page 15 ---
sional Managements), which numbered
twenty-six in 1938, and were located at
strategic points throughout Germany. Un-
der the Ministry of Transport there was
also the Reichsbahn Zentralimter, in
charge of mechanical and civil engineer-
ing, workshops, research, and other tech-
nical matters on which a common policy
is required for a whole system. The
operation and day-by-day direction of the
workshops was entirely in the hands of
the Reichsbahndirektion.

The railroads were staffed with well-
educated, trained, and technically efficient
personnel. They were more than adequate
for the traffic then using the system. If
anything, the Reichsbahn was over-staffed
especially in the upper brackets, a condi-
tion which provided a valuable source of
trained personnel for later taking over
the railroads in the occupied contries. In
the years before the war, there was a
certain amount of nazi infiltration into
the higher levels of the Reichsbahn, but
compared with the effect of the party in
other spheres of German life, it was small
and most appointments were still made
in accord with technical qualifications.
However, the Nurenberg Laws were ap-
plied, and later there was a tendency to
give preference to party members.

WATERWAYS CONDITIONED FOR WAR

As events have proved, the Reichsbahn
secretly planned for the traffic problems
of World War II. Not only did it have
the railroad system in condition to furnish
ample transportation for Germany at war,
but it was also prepared and equipped,
both administratively and technically, to
assume the role of operator, controller,
and coordinator} of virtually all the rail-
roads in Europe.

. The German Inland Waterway System,
at the outbreak of the war, was the most
highly developed system of its kind in
Europe. And, like the railroads, it had
also been prepared to handle huge war
traffic and to operate the rest of Europe’s
waterways,

12

It was during the Middle Ages that
the waterway system in Germany was
first organized. The comparative ease
with which this form of transportation
could be improved and extended by the
building of canals was recognized at an
early date. Because of political isolation,
however, the German Linder planned and
built their canals to serve only their own
needs, It was not until the foundation of
First Empire in 1871 that serious efforts
were made to evolve a national system to
meet the needs of a unified Germany.

NATIONAL WATERWAY PLANNING

The policy of planning a national or-
ganization of waterways was pursued
steadily until 1914 and was continued
after the Armistice. With the advent of
the nazi regime, it received a new impetus.
‘Water transportation was not only to
play its part in the revival and expansion
of German industry, but to be prepared
for the needs of total war. Plans for the
building of new, and the reconstruction of
existing waterways, shelved during the
years of the depression, were put in hand
and new schemes were evolved.

Among many other improvements, the
completion of the Mittelland Canal in
1938 met the long-felt need of a link be-
tween the hitherto separate Eastern and
Western Waterway Systems. Port fa-
cilities along the more important reaches
were increased, As a result, on the out-
break of the present war, Germany’s in-
land waterway system was the most up-
to-date in Europe.

Thus when the war began, the water-
ways were well equipped to relieve the
Reichsbahn of the maximum tonnage of
commercial goods, thereby increasing the
latter’s capacity for the transport of
troops and military stores and other goods
for which speedy transit was essential.

In 1935 the Reichsverband Binnenschiff-
fahrt (RVB) was formed as a representa-
tive body for all the independent proprie-
tors and enterprises within the sphere of

--- Page 16 ---
inland shipping. The RVB concerned it-
self with the general interests of inland
shipping and advised the Government on
all inland shipping matters. It replaced
all unions and trade organizations which
had existed previously.

To ensure a constant supply of skilled
labor, trained along nazi political lines,
a three year apprenticeship system was
compulsorily introduced in 1938. In 1939,
an organization known as the Reich
Working Combine was created. Under
this organization, the training of waterway
personnel was carried out under strict
nazi-party supervision.

German inland shipping, which had
been systematically prepared for a state
of emergency, found it comparatively easy
to switch over to war requirements. Even
with the shortages of labor and repair
materials caused later by the war, the
inland shipping system continued to func-
tion at a high rate of efficiency until the
debris piled in the channels by air raids
made the rivers and canals no longer
navigable.

This is the condition that the Theater
Forces found when they took over: the
operation of the water system. Since
their primary mission was to move car-
goes require for combat, they immedi-
ately set about to putting the waterways
in condition for. operation. When. MG
took over the. responsibility for the
waterways, they found them in a par-
tia’ly navigable condition. Severe shortages
of barges and skilled crews, plus debris
in the channels, or shifted channels caused
by debris, prevents the full use of the
system at present.

CLOSE WATCH NEEDED _
Part of Military Government’s job is to”

prevent history from repeating itself. Nei-
ther the railroads nor the waterways can
-be allowed. to aid industry to rebuild it-
self into a war machine. However, ‘there
is no need for the destruction of. the Ger-
man railroad ‘and ‘waterway facilities -in

order to reduce the transportation capa-
city to level required to meet the needs
of minimum peacetime economy. The
Allied air raids took an extremely heavy
toll on nearly all main railroad and
waterway facilities. In fact, the destruc-
tion of the transportation systems was so
severe that the Theater Forces had to
make considerable repairs in order to
renew communications essential to the
military forces.

In order to return the railroads to Ger-
man operation, MG has established two
organizations which will facilitate smooth
rail operation yet permit a close control
by Military Government. One organiza-
tion is made up entirely of Germans and
the other is military. At the present time,
the bulk of the supervision is being done
by the military organization but gradually
the responsibilities are being shifted to
the parallel German organization.

MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY

The German organization is headed by
the Directorate of Transportation which
is made up of qualified executives or
executive bodies selected by each of the
Land Presidents. The Directorate will
assume the responsibility for management,
control and supervision of all forms of
civil transportation in the US Zone in-
cluding railroads and waterways. Under
the Directorate, a Zonal Movements Of-

_ fice has been established in Frankfurt,

13

which coordinates the movements of rail
with inland waterways and other forms
of transportation. Lower down the scale,
the MG will use the Oberbetriebsleitung
(OBL) to supervise, control and direct the
actual operation of the railroads, Below
this echelon, the railroads are divided into
divisions which are directed by the
Reichsbahndirektionen (RBD). A RBD
heads each division of the railroad to
carry out the. operational functions,

Operating parallel to the German or-
ganization, MG has a military organiza-
tion which was obtained nearly intact

--- Page 17 ---
from the Theater Service Forces. This
organization is made up of the personnel
who supervised ‘and operated the rail-
roads during the war, when the only.
mission was to keep the supplies moving.
They know railroading, they know the
problems and they know most of the
solutions. These men are MG’s insurance
that the railroads will continue to func-
tion during the transition period between
military supervision and German super-
vision.

The top supervisory staffs of the mili-
tary organization are located in the
Transportation Division of Military Gov-
ernment. This group is on a comparable
level with the German Directorate of
Transport. The military staffs will deter-
mine policy and pass it on to the Direc-
torate of Transport. The policies are
interpreted in the Directorate’s office and
handed down through the German trans-
portation channels. To observe and super-
vise the performance of the Germans in
the operational level, MG has a group of
field- railroad specialists. These men are
located at Kassel, Stuttgart, Munich,
Nurnberg, Regensburg, and Augsburg,
with headquarters at Frankfurt. The field
men are on the same operational level as
the Reichsbahndirektion.

WATERWAYS UNDER MG

The waterways are being supervised in
the same manner as the railroads, by both
military and German organizations, ex-
cept in the lowest echelons. This arrange-
ment lends itself to better coordination
of efforts in apportioning the quantity
and type of cargoes for each system.
Bulky cargos, which do not need the
fast movement of rail, can be shipped by
inland waterway. On the operational level,
however, MG has established a field or-
ganization of inland water technicians for
the Danube and Rhine Division of the
inland water system, with headquarters
located in. Passau and, Wiesbaden.

Under this system, there’ will be'no need
for the MG Land detachments to exer-

44

cise any direct supervision over the rail-
road or inland waterway operations. They
will, however, continue to control and
supervise the road transport within their
areas.

For the time being, the bulk of the
supervision is being performed by the
Military organization. The process of de-
nazification, with resultant inexperienced
replacements, makes thes necessary. But
gradually the responsibility for supervis-
ing the operations of the railroads will
shift from the military to the German or-
ganization. When this is fully accomp-
lished, MG will only have to exercise a
restraining hand from the very top to
carry out the policies set forth by the
State Department. But before this portion
of the job is completed, the denazification
must be completed also.

DENAZIFICATION

When MG was given supervisory and
technical staffs by Theater Service For-
ces, they also were given the German
Control Office, a military organization
whose duty under TSFET was to de-
nazify the transportation systems, Under
MG this office will continue to function
as before. But its problem is not an easy

“one. Remember that though one of MG’s

missions was to denazify the railroads
and waterways (as well as to give the
Germans the responsibilities of opera-
tion), it was necessary to accomplish this
without losing the use of the transporta-
tion system. If the German transport
system should fail now, all the necessary
industries being coaxed back into exist-
ence would collapse, and Germany would
continue being a dependent nation. De-
nazification has not progressed as rapidly
in the transportation field as -in some
of the other spheres of German industry
because of this dire need of technically
qualified personnel. But it is progressing
and will continue to be carried out until
the two transportation systems are clean
and fresh. MG has taken steps toward
alleviating the shortage of skilled per-

--- Page 18 ---
sonnel by permitting the Germans to start
training programs in the operational
trades needed.

After the Germans take over the bulk
of supervisory and operational respon-
sibilities, then what? Can they start re-
building their transportation systems once
again for the purpose of supporting heavy
industry? MG’s answer to this is the
curtailment of rebuilding destroyed rail
facilities. A minimum peacetime econ-
omy for Germany has already been deter-
mined. The Germans will not be
permitted to rebuild more of their rail

system than is required to support such
an economy. In fact, the actual rail
capacity will be less than what is requir-
ed. MG intends to make the Germans
more dependent on their inland water
system. Though this system was used
considerably for moving bulk cargos
during the war, it is much too slow, and
in ‘the winter months, undependable for
moving troops and other war traffic. A
weak rail system and an adequate inland
water system will be available for peace-
time Germany.

(Continued from page 10)

Republic at the hands of the nazis and
of the nazi party members now. Now
they reason: What will happen to a party
member if the U.S. gives up its zone of
occupation? Aside from that, the Ger-
man people are in a state of political
lethargy. They are not sure what is
planned for Germany or what they as
Germans may do in self government.

15

Military Government detachment com-
manders have been busy in the past eight
months with functional and administative
problems. The Germans will need guid-
ance in political affairs, encouragement,
and courses in democratic practices. Keen
political observation by Military Govern-
ment officers in this field will be a devel-
oping need.

--- Page 19 ---
Reparations As Seen by the

PARIS CONF

The State Department has released the
complete text of the agreement reached at
the Paris Conference on Reparations. The
agreement, some details of which were
released to the press from Paris on Dec.
21, deals primarily with the share of
each signatory government in_ total
reparations from Germany. It also sets
up an agency whereby those shares can
be distributed, states a policy under which
looted gold found in Germany will be
restituted, and provides a small fund
for rehabilitation and resettlement of
nonrepatriable victims of nazi concentra-
tion camps, which presumably will be
used as a special supplementary contri-
bution to those being made by the United
Nations governments for the care and
relief of refugees throughout Europe.

U.S. CUTS SHARE

US and the United Kingdom each
received 28 per cent of all reparation
assets, excluding industrial plant and
equipment. No accurate estimate of value
for this share can be given since it
depends on many factors now unknown.
These include the value of German
external assets, non-looted currencies
found in Germany, goods furnished by
Russia as payment for certain industrial
plants transferred to her as reparation,
and many other miscellaneous items. It
is known, however, that the total amount
available will be small compared to the
vast outlays for fighting the war and
the tremendous damage done by Ger-
many to United Nations. US also has the
right to 28 per cent of the indugtrial
plant and equipment to be taken from
Germany as reparation. However, dpe to
the liberated areas’ more urgent need
for the equipment to replace that actually

16

N

-

A

SRENC

destroyed by Germany and to the fact
that except for some specialized equip-
ment and processes, most of the equip-
ment could not be used to advantage
in this country, the US renounced its
right to 16.2 per cent of this equipment
as an aid to the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of devastated areas in the
liberated. countries.

The policy enunciated for the restitu-
tion of looted gold from Germany is
considered to be very important. The total
amount of looted gold uncovered in
Germany will be placed in a single fund.
Each participating country which can
prove that it was robbed of gold by
Germany will be restituted a proportion-
ate share of this fund depending on
its losses. This policy insures equal
treatment to all United Nations from
which Germany stole gold. The fund to
be used in rehabiliting nonrepatriable
victims of nazi concentration camps
consists mainly of non-monetary gold
found in Germany plus 25,000,000 dollars
to be derived from other sources. Non-
monetary gold comprises in the main
gold wedding rings, other jewelry, tooth
fillings, et cetera, taken from victims
of nazi persecution, and is currently
estimated to have an approximate value
under 5,000,000 dollars. The actual use of
this fund will be worked out by the
governments of the US, United King-
dom, France, Czechoslovakia, and Yugo-
slavia, together with the Intergovern-
mental Committee on refugees. Con*erence
suggested that agreement for implement-
ing this plan be sought along the follow-
ing lines. In order to concentrate the
limited funds among the most needy and
deserving, only victims of nazi or nazi
influenced regimes’ concentration camps,

--- Page 20 ---
or their families will be aided. The fund
would be administered by the Intergov-
ernmental Committee on Refugees or
whatever United Nations agency might
take its place. The purposes could be
carried out through appropriate private
or public field. organizations. The fund
would not be used to compensate individ-
uals for losses, but would be used for
rehabilitation or resettlement purposes.

HELP FOR REFUGEES

Acceptance of such aid would not pre-
judice the claims of the individuals against
‘any government, or its successor, which
might have caused this destitution. Since
it is anticipated that the proceeds of the
. non-monetary gold will not be available
for several months, and the proceeds from
German assets or unclaimed refugee
estates in neutral countries for an even
longer time, the Department, in concert
with other governments, will continue to
seek adequate financial support for the
work of the Intergovernmental Committee
on Refugees. This government has con-
sistently sought to alleviate the distress
of all DPs in Europe including those
refugees who have been obliged to leave
their countries for reasons of race, re-
ligion, or political belief. US contribu-
tions or UNRRA and the Intergovern-
mental Committee on Refugees have been
made with this policy stipulation, and
the acceptance of the restriction agreed
upon in Paris to the use of reparation
proceeds exclusively for the groups
specified in Art 8, Par D, of the final

act of the Paris conference constitutes
no deviation from this objective. The,
workings of the Reparation Conference
were carried on in a very favorable at-
mosphere. It was one of the first oppor-
tunities for the liberated countries not
represented on the Allied Control Council
for Germany to meet together and to
discuss the workings of the economic
policies for Germany enumerated in the
Potsdam Declaration. In order to record
their views on many problems associated
with reparation but whose actual deter-
mination depends on the Allied Control
Council, these nations drew up several
resolutions which they requested the US,
French and British governments to pre-
sent to the Control Council. One reso-
lution dealt with the problem of restitu-
tion of equipment looted by Germany.

It pointed out the importance of this
problem in these countries’ economies and
asked that where possible restitution be
made from German supplies if the original
looted goods could not be found. Another
resolution agreed fully with the principles
set up for reparation by Potsdam -and
called on the Control Council to inter-
pret these principles broadly, so as to
maximize the amount available for re-
paration. These countries also suggested
that as much war booty as possible be
used for reparation, especially that suit-
able for civilian use. These resolutions
will be presented to the Control Council
by the American member for careful con-
sideration.

17

--- Page 21 ---
General

Retention Status of Uilicers

WD Circular 366, 1945, states that,
effective December 7, 1945, all outstand-
ing statements whereby officers volun-
teered to continue on extended active
duty were revoked and each officer is
required to sign by January 31, 1946
a statement in one of the following
categories:

Category I — “I elect to continue on
extended active duty for an unlimited
length of time.”

Category II — “I elect to continue on
extended active duty until June 30,
1947.”

Category II] — “I elect to continue on
extended active duty until December
31, 1946.”

Category IV — “I elect to continue on
extended active duty until....”
Category V — “I desire to be relieved
from active duty at the earliest

opportunity.”

Circular 366 states that an officer who
signs a category I, II, III, or IV state-
ment, automatically waives his eligibilities
for relief from active duty under
the provisions of War Department
Readjustment Regulations by reason of
his ASR score, his age, his length of
service until expiration of the period of
time specified in his statement. This does
not constitute a contract on the part
of the War Department to retain him
ion active duty until the expiration of
that period of time. The War Department
can, in the interests of the demobili-
zation program, relieve officers who have
signed statements in categories I, II, III
‘or IV, but who are surplus to existing
needs. However, the War Department has
stated in Circular 366 that while no

18

definite assurance can be given individual
officers regarding the length of time their
services will be needed by the Army, it
is the intent of the War Department that
those officers with the highest record
of performance of duty, who desire to be
retained in the service, will be retained
longest and that every possible con-
sideration be given to the wishes of the
individual officer concerned.”

In the opposite respect, signing a
category I, II, III or. IV statement does
not effect an officer’s eligibility for relief
from active duty for personal reasons
of the officer concerned, upon his own
application under the provisions of
Section III or Section IV, War Depart-
ment Circular 290, 1945, or for conven-
ience of the Government under Section
II of the same circular.

Also, if an officer is not eligible for
relief from active duty at the time he
signs one of the statements, he does not
automatically become eligible on the date
specified in the statement unless in the
meantime he has become eligible under
‘War Department Readjustment Regu-
lations.

Official Redeployment
Information

A USFET cable, giving official rede-
ployment information, was dispatched this
week to major commands, clearing the
subject of redeployment of the confusion
caused by erroneous press reports and
rumors.

The cable explains that between the
months of January 1 and July 1, 1946,
approximately 53,500 men will be ship-

--- Page 22 ---
ped home each month from this Theater,
plus the number of men for whom re-
placements have been received. “This
means that if 22,200 replacements are
received during the month, 22,200 men
in addition to the basic 53,500 will be
homeward bound, a total of 75,700 men.

The men filling the outgoing shipments
will be selected on the basis of highest
point scores, longest length of time in ser-
vice, plus those men who are over age
and men with the required number of
dependents.

Military neccessity was the basis on
which the number of outgoing men was
determined. However, no soldier will be
retained in the Theater longer than ab-
solutely necessary, according to the cable.

Influenza Control

Special consideration is being given to
the possibility of a civilian influenza
epidemic in Germany this winter. Factors
such as mass movements of expellees and

19

inadequate living conditions favor such
a possibility.

One’ of the measures taken by German
civilians to combat such an epidemic was
the establishment of a special school in
Marburg. A German bacteriologist from
each Land and from the U.S. Sector of
Berlin is attending this school in Marburg
(beginning Jan. 16), to learn the latest
U.S. methods of influenza virus identi-
fication. These doctors will in turn in-
struct the various laboratory staffs in
their respective Linder. At the first in-
dication of an outbreak of influenza in
any area, German doctors will send
specimens to certain designated labora-
tories where facilities are available and
latest technics used, to secure early and
accurate diagnosis.

Should an outbreak occur, rapid
reporting based on accurate diagnosis will
greatly assist in establishing immediate
control measures and so aid in control
of generalized epidemic.

To date, there is no evidence of an
influenza outbreak in any locality.

--- Page 23 ---
German Reactions

Political Parties

In the following article, translated from the
Wiesbadener Kurier, the position of
the Social Democratic Party before the elec-
tions is explained, semi-officially, by one of
its members. It might be described as the
“collective reaction” of the leading party to its

_ political responsibilities in the coming elections.

“All parties are at present engaged in
setting forth their programs through the
medium of the local newspapers, so that
all voters will have the opportunity to
make a thoughtful and well-considered
vote at the coming municipal elections.
I am afraid that the reader, after going
over the programs, will say, ‘Die Wahl,
die Qual!’ On the basis of the official
programs, it will not be possible for every-
one to select one given party as coming
closest to his expectations. I shall try to
explain here the relationship between the
three leading groups, Socialists, Commu-
nists, and Christian Democrats, so the
reader will have some additional infor-
mation on which to base his choice.

“But first a few remarks. At the
elections, the parties will reap what they
have sown. At least, that is the way it
should be. It would indeed be regrettable
if certain parties were to reap the harvest
sown by others, due to an incomplete
understanding on the part of the voter of
the fundamental differences between the
parties. This often used to be the case
when representatives of certain parties
endeavored to take votes from the others
by any and all means. Every person, then,
should feel obligated to vote only for
that party in which he is an enrolled
member or which corresponds to his way
of thinking. Election day is the day of

as seen bya
Social Democrat

political reckoning. Election day is pay-
day. The voter with his ballot sits in
judgment over the parties. This was not
the case in the past. Germany was ruled
by a clique made up of representatives of
heavy industry, the syndicates, cartels,
and trusts, the General Staff, and Hitler’s
lackeys. Their legacy to the German
people is a heap of rubble This perma-
nently disqualifies them from participat-
ing in German elections. But their friends,
followers, and hangers-on will have to
be reckoned with in the election results.
Of the 36 parties which existed prior to
1933, only the Socialist Party and the
Communist Party are presenting themsel-
ves to the public in their old form.
“This does not mean that the voter
should look back at the past. The future
must be taken into account in making his
decision. Granted that the future appears
vague and uncertain. The Christian Demo-
cratic Union, for example, were it judged
solely by its andecedents, would not
appear to good advantage. The actual
leaders of this group, however, are build-
ing for the future; they believe that in
‘Christian’ Socialism they have found
a principle which can unite the various
elements of which the party is composed.
From the Social Democratic standpoint,
I should be glad to see the CDU achieve
this goal. In Germany we should endeav-

--- Page 24 ---
or to establish a two party system, it is
not only a simple and easily controlled
system, but it is also one which presents
the possibility of fruitful collaboration, if
these two groups are ‘Marxist’, on the
one hand, and ‘Chrisitian’ on the other.

“The three leading parties, Communist,
Socialist, and Christian Democrat, might
be described now as constituting the left,
the center, and the right of the present
political line-up.

“The Communists should come from the
left wing of the working class; the Social-
ists from the right wing of the working
class and left wing of the middle class;
and the Christian Democratic Union, the
remainder of the middle class. Such an
arbitrary division is open to objection;
but in the main it should hold true. The
Socialist Party, then, has the function of
serving as a bridge between the Commu-
nists and the Christian Democrats.

“In fact, it has already been called the
new ‘Center Party’. In addition to this
function, the Socialists, together with the
other parties, will carry out the necessary
task ‘of uniting all citizens who were not
nazi activists or otherwise politically un-
acceptable.

“What is the relationship between the
Socialist -Party (SPD) and the Commu-
nist: Party (KPD)? The division. of the
working class from 1914 to 1933 did not
result from the maliciousness or stupidity
-of the two leftist parties. The entire
period was characterized by the many
political factions which came into being.
The Weimar system sought to establish
a balance between capital and labor. How-
ever, political capitalism, led by Stinnes,
Hugenberg, and others, could tolerate
no such division of authority, and Adolf
Hitler was called to their aid. We know
the result. Today, only ‘Marxian’ and
‘Christian’ Socialism are capable of
governing. The controversial issues which
formerly divided the KPD and SPD no
longer exist. Together these two parties
polled 30 to 40 per cent of the votes
in 1933. At the coming elections, the

working class parties will, without any
doubt, achieve a majority. The only ques-
tion is how great that majority will be.
The new situation imposes new responsi-
bilities, and in view of these the split in
the ranks of labor is an anachronism, or
shadow-boxing with ghosts of the past.
SPD and KPD must work out a common
policy on matters of national interest.
There should be no question of
orientation toward the West or orien-
tation toward the East, but amicable
relations should be established with. all
neighboring countries. Unity of the
working class in city and country is the
absolute prerequisite and best possible
preparation for German unity. Zonal
separatism in party life must be avoided
at all costs.

“We want no election battle with the
other parties; but we do advocate clean
and open competition between them. Be-
fore 1933, election campaigns were made
up of pitched battles, and all conceivable

‘underhanded and treacherous means of

poisoning the political atmosphere were
employed. That is now over. Party life
must also be demilitarized and human-
ized. The leaders of the anti-fascist parties
have suffered greatly during the twelve
years of nazism. Many of them have

-been sent to prisons or concentration,

camps. Their relationship is much closer
now than it was in former days. when
they were simply opposed to nazism.
The need of the times does not permit
strife, but demands mutual aid. We must
help support the burdens of others.
Everyone must seek to arrive at an
understanding of the lot of his country-
men. The rubble left by the nazis must
be cleaned away and the ruins must
be built up. The curse of nazi destruction
has left a terrible mark on the people.
What can be saved must be saved. These,
and similar tasks, must be shared by
all parties alike. We suffer together
under the burden of the occupation and
reparations, and also under the universal
condemnation brought upon us by the

--- Page 25 ---
nazis. A people with only the beginning
of real political freedom, without. national
unity, without a foreign policy, and led
by four occupational powers, must stand
together if it is desired to become
‘independent once more and to prepare
for a happier future.

“I have stated above that the SPD
and the KPD are the only parties
functioning under their old names. That
does not mean that they are the same
in all respects as they were before. The
painful experiences of the past twelve
years have taught them much. The Com-
munist Party is today a democratic party,
and it is ready to assume its proper
responsibilities in the civil administra-
tion. It has also become tolerant of
religion. It thus takes the position
adopted by the Socialist Party long ago.
During the period of the nazis, a swarm
of unemployed vagabonds, activists, and
adventurers ruled the political field. Now
the working class parties are putting
forward men with the experience and
capabilities to assume responsible
positions. Today the fruitless distinction
between the ‘petit bourgeois’ and the
middle classes, and’ between the de-
‘pendent and independent workers has
been abandoned. The important thing is
that the worker is a citizen and the
‘citizen is a worker. The SPD, of course,
will never forget that it owes its first
support to the trade unions; nor will it
forget the many employees, white collar
workers and intellectuals without whom
its program could never be realized. But
the SPD is, nonetheless, eager to obtain

the support of the left middle class as
well as all those who have been impov-
erished through the destruction of war.”

The “working class unity” envisaged
by the writer of the above article does
not mean an organic unification of KPD
and SPD, but rather the working out
of common problems together. Political
unification of the two groups would be
acceptable to the Socialists only by the
absorption of the Communists into the
existing SPD organization.

It is iof interest that the Socialist writer
makes no mention of a fourth political
group, the Liberal Democratic Party. It
is true that this group is, at present,
very weakly organized, but is has many
followers, particularly in the small com-
munities where the first elections will
be held. However, it is believed by the
Socialists as well as by the Christian
Democratic Union that the CDU will
adequately represent the interests of all
groups who make up the Liberal Demo-
crats. Therefore, there is a tendency on
the part of both to ignore this party.
Their calculations may be upset by the
returns from the coming elections.

The article, in playing down the
differences between KPD and SPD,
is making an obvious bid to win the
votes of those Communists who map be
wavering in their convictions. The whole
tone of the article, incidentally, is far
more generalized and vague than most
political writing which is intended pri-
marily for consumption by party members
iand not as feelers for non-party support.

— — EDITOR.

‘22

--- Page 26 ---
(Press Comments

Occupation Failures....

- Th S

Care CueisTiANn SCIENCE MontroR

STS
1 ye New ork Fimes gz

=a imenneaiimines sh.

ats
:_
SS

eat

... Subject of many editorials

While news columns of American news-
papers featured the protest meetings of
soldiers overseas against, editorial com-
ment underscored the fact that a combat
army, eager to'go home, was not fitted
for the role of an occupation army. Edi-
torial writers generally evidenced a reali-
zation of the need for a prompt decision
on the post-war army, with several ex-
pressing the view that this should be
made up of volunteers.

Other important topics in the comment
of the-week were the opening of the Uni-
ted Nations Assembly in London, Ameri-
can responsibilities in post-war Europe,
German disarmament policy and the pro-
gress of the Nurnberg war criminal trials.

The recent report on the American
occupation zone in Germany by General
MeNarney “is further recital of what
must be considered thus far as a failure”
declared The New York Times on
January 6. “The primary cause of this
failure is a confusion of purpose on the
highest level of policy-making, But there
has been clear evidence of failure, also,
in administration”.

CAUSE OF FAILURE

Carrying its analysis further, The Times
asserted that “the real cause of the failure
of American administration has long been
evident. It is that we attempted to do too
much, too quickly, and with the most
unsuitable instrument — a combat army
never trained for such a job and deter-
mined to get home after the battle is
over. The army itself was the first to
realize this and Gen. Eisenhower asked

23

months ago that army rule be replaced
by civilian rule, now scheduled to take
effect by June 11.

Occupation failures in Germany, accord-
ing to another critic, Walter Lippmann,
are due to the fact “That our military
planning and our political planning took
place in separate water-tight compart-
ments”,

POINT SYSTEM BLAMED

“The point system for discharging men
was just to the individual and no doubt
necessary” Lippmann said. “But it must
have been evident to every experienced
officer that this system would not only
demobilize the army quickly but would
undermine the efficiency of what was left.
As the point system applied also to men
who had been given specialized training
for Military Government, the result was
that when specialists were most needed
and were beginning to have practical ex-
perience, they became eligible for dis-
charge... Our political plans were adopt-
ed on the assumption that somehow we
would have the kind of army which, as
it was easy to predict, there was little
chance of having. Had the State Depart-
ment realized that there was no likeli-
hood of our having such an army of occu-
pation, they should have scrapped the
political plan as unworkable and have
looked for an alternative. There was an
alternative. That was to let the Germans
re-educate themselves and to fix our at-
tention upon making it impossible for
them to rearm. It is not too late to
reconsider and revise our German policy.
In fact, we shall be forced to reconsider

--- Page 27 ---
and revise it, or risk humiliation and
failure.”

The opening of the United Nations
Assembly in London was well covered
in the American press. The New York
Herald Tribune warned, however, that
we must not expect or demand too much
from this meeting. “A viable interna-
tional system has to be evolved slowly,
developing many organs of consultation
and policy formation as it goes” it said.
“The great contribution which the United
Nations Organization can make to that
process should not be nullified by asking
of it panaceas which it cannot produce
or decisions for which as yet no basis
anywhere exists.” ,

Though commentators generally hailed
with satisfaction the results of the pre-
Christmas meeting of Big Three Foreign
Ministers at Moscow, William Phillip
Simms, writing in The New York World
Telegram, expressed the view that by ex-
cluding France and other European coun-
tries from the peace table it had set the
clock back a hundred years,

“fo a vast majority of the United Na-
tions, the outstanding tragedy of the Big
Three meeting was the Anglo-American
surrender to the Soviet thesis that world
rule is for the great”, Simms declared.
“That world rule belongs only to the
great was the foundation of Nazism and
Fascism. It was against this conception
that the United States entered the conflict
against the Axis in 1940, more than a
year before the shooting war began at
Pearl Harbor.”

Soldier Protests

Protests of soldiers overseas against
the slowdown in redeployment provided
material for many editorials, the trend
of comment emphasizing the need for a
quick decision on the post-war military
establishment. Mark Watson, in The Ba:ti-
more Sun, expressed the view that the
effect of the demonstrations has been to

“waken official Washington to a new
consideration of what are to be the Ameri-
can foreign policies both in the Orient
and in Europe”. Several papers, including

The Philadelphia Record and The New

York Times, pointed out that the soldiers
had apparently forgotten that they are
still in the Army.

The Philadelphia Record also took of-
ficers to task, warning that “we may still
lose the peace if our men aren’t made
to realize that their job is to guard the
peace, if officers don’t forget caste men-
tality long enough to tell them”. While
asserting that soldiers should know better
than engage in such demonstrations, The
Times declared that “the people here
at home who criticize without knowledge
and clamor without reason, and parti-
cularly the Congress, which seems to
be more interested in the coming elections
than in the overall welfare of the country
are the real culprits.”

The redeployment protests, in the
opinion of The Washington Post, con-
stitute a “plain index to the extent of
the demoralization of what was so re-
cently a magnificent and invincible Ar-
my”. Asserting that “leadership is im-
peratively demanded to bring order out
of the growing chaos”, The New York
Herald Tribune stated that “the failure
to clarify the exact responsibilities of
the man still in uniform and the lack of
any fixed policy for the future are cer-
tain to add to the difficulties of discipline
and morale with which the Army is now
trying to deal”.

Dean of St. Paul's

The Control Commission and the Army
received high praise recently for the work
they are doing in Germany from the Dean
of St. Paul’s, following a recent tour of
that country.

An abiding impression “which quickly
makes itself felt is that the Control Com-
mission and the Army are doing an al-

\

--- Page 28 ---
most impossible job with amazing ffi-
ciency and devotion”, the Dean declared
in an article in The London Spectator.
“Those who still talk of ‘Colonel Blimp’
would revise their opinion of colonels
after a few days in Germany, for they
would be confronted with a country which
is to a large extent not only being gov-
erned by brigadiers and colonels, but
is being nursed back into some kind of
civilized life. I do not think that these
efficient and kindly governors have come
to like the German people, but they see
a task of construction to be done, and
they are working day and night at it.”

In his conversations with Germans who
had been leaders of the religious life of
their country, the Dean reached the con-
clusion “that the one really vigorous and
hopeful institution in Germany today is
the Christian Church, both Catholic and
Protestant... In my opinion the church
is the only organization which shows any
real signs of understanding democratic
and representative government. The at-
tempts which have been made to en-
courage local government on _ liberal
principles have not so far been very suc-
cessful, but the Council of Twelve which
met at Frankfurt this month (December)
really represents the greater part of the
Evangelical Church in Germany”.

Civil Administration

Pointing out that the return of civil
administration to German authorities in
the U.S. Zone is in keeping with the
American policy of accelerating the devel-
opment of responsible German _in-
stitutions, The Manchester Guardian ex-
pressed the view that in the neighboring
British and French Zones “there is likely
to be a feeling that this development is
premature”,

“German civilian autonomy in: the

American Zone has a better chance of.

success than in either the British or

French zones of occupation, for there
is considerably more local transport
available and the food situation, although
bad, is not so desperately bad as in the
hungry Ruhr and the equally hungry Saar
towns”, The Guardian said. “The decision
will enable the number of Americans need-
ed in the administration of Germany to
be reduced...In itself there is everything
to be said for increasing German responsi-
bility and the authority of suitable chosen
German institutions, but the dangers in-
herent in uneven political development in
the different zones of Germany are real.”

Random Comments

“IT declare emphatically that what the
Russians want is not power or glory,
or some of the world’s possessions, but
friendship, real solid friendship. They will
not say so, for they have their pride and
their bitter memories of sneers and snubs.
But they are essentially a warm-hearted,
impulsive and expansive people, eager to
learn, anxious to teach, born artists and
intellectuals, with much that is childlike
in them still alive and unwearied. Such
people do not want to live in isolation,
misrepresented and mistrusted, suspected
and suspicious” — J. B. Priestley in Lon-
don Sunday Express.

* *

“More and more observers agree that
the French are right in insisting that the
Ruhr Valley, with its coal mines and its
smelters, be internationalized. Any man
who thinks the dogmatic, fanatical creed
of the Nazis can be eliminated in a year
or two years, or five years, is deceiving
himself worse than dangerously” —

Editorial in Richmond New Leader.

* *

“There are several decisions to be made
with respect to American policy in Ger-

--- Page 29 ---
many which affect our present and future
security and the peace of the world. Of
these, the most important is the basic
policy to be pursued regarding the dis-
armament of the Germans. Certainly, it
should be obvious that our decisions about
Germany — in so far as it is within the
province of the U.S. to make such de-
cisions — should be made without bias,
solely in the national interest and in the
interest of world security. No special
or private consideration should enter into
it. Hence, it is of the first importance to
make sure that no persons whose private
interests may be involved in Germany
industrial recovery, and no persons with
special privileges or warped viewpoints
should be permitted to participate in the
formulation of such policy, or have any
responsible part in connection with it.
It is cheering to know that the master
file of the Nazi party, containing the lists
of all party members both in Germany
and other countries is now in the hands
of the American military administration
in Germany... As soon as possible, full
lists of American citizens, or persons
resident in the US, whose names are on
that list, should be published in this
country, together with the names of any
non-American Nazis, who may turn out
to be directors or stockholders in Ameri-
can corporations” — Major George
Fielding Eliot.

* *

“Here’s a note to the home folks now
turning the heat on congressmen, Our
troops are being demobilized twice as fast
as any other nation, and twice as fast as
troops were ever demobilized before. You
have already seen a_ transportation
miracle; but if the pressure keeps up, you
won’t have any Army” — Morgan Beatty
in NBC broadcast.

* *

“Either Congress will have to enact
legislation providing for the drafting of
enough’men to make up the shortage of
volunteers, or else the government will

have to reduce its committments with
respect to the forces of occupation inGer-
many and Japan. And a reduction in the
committments would unquestionably cast
doubt on the sincerity of our participation
in the United Nations Organization and
other international matters” — Editorial
in Baltimore Sun.

* *

“The controversy stirred by the remarks
of Lt. Gen. Sir Frederick B. Morgan
concerning the migration of European
Jews is confusing. There is dispute over
the factual background of the general’s
statements, over their effect and possible
inspiration, over his very words. All this
is perplexing, unfortunate and basically
irrelevant. Whether the Jewish migra-
tions on the Continent are organized or
not, whether they are motivated by pre-
sent anti-Semitism or past terror, the
main fact is that Jews in Europe are
desperately seeking a haven from their
terrible memories and their fears for the
future” — Editorial in New York Herald
Tribune.

* *

“The high hopes entertained before the
(Niirnberg) trial started of the impact
the evidence would have on the German
people, especially, and upon those in the
rest of the world, have not been realized.
The German people don’t like to be
reminded of their misdoings, and neither
the newspaper nor the radio reports are
very skillfully handled. One valid criti-
cism German newspaper readers make of
the trial reports in their papers is that
there is too much exhortation and too
much sloppy reporting of the facts. But
accounts of the trial in other countries
seem to be receiving less attention than
it was hoped they would” — Raymond
Daniell in The New York Times.

* *
“One factor becomes more evident every

day we stay here and that factor is that
Japan is always going to be a factor in

--- Page 30 ---
the Far East, whether we like it or not.
One of the most striking features of Japan
today is the speed and the diligence with
which the Japanese people are getting
down to work rebuilding their shattered
homeland. If we leave them to their own
devices before we change their thinking,
we are asking for future trouble, and it
takes time to change the mental proces-
ses of a people. Japan is going to be
an influence in Asia, which means the
world, and it is up to us through our
occupation policy to determine what that
influence shall be”? — Wiliam J. Dunn
in CBS broadcast from Tokio.

* *

“The Big Three which successfully led
the fight to win the war must also lead
the fight to win the peace. If that
principle is firmly upheld, the peoples
of all countries can march toward the
future with confidence that their sacrifices
have not been in vain” — Editorial in Lon-
don Daily Worker.

“Belatedly and on a small scale, the
U.S. War Department took over the Rus-
sian idea of re-educating Axis prisoners
of war in the ways of peace and popular

27

government. But whereas the Russians
did it to all prisoners, and gave special
leadership training and experience to the
most likely ones, we did not try it at all
except on the most likely ones. Conse-
quently we are sending back to the Ger-
man and Japanese homelands thousands
of prisoners still confirmed in the mili-
tarist faith in which they were captured,
and only a few hundreds who have been
exposed to a different set of ideas” —
Editorial in Des Moines Register.

* *

“As 1945 draws to a close, the what-
to-do- about Germany riddle remains as
ever. The danger in the coming 12 months
is that America will default on_ its
responsibility in Europe if only for lack
of a workable plan... Belatedly the State
Department has begun to try to assemble
civilian administrators. It is not proving
easy. Gen. Joseph T. McNarney, mili-
tary governor in the U.S. Zone, report-
ed the other day that great progress had
been made in restoring Germany to the
ways of peace. That would seem to be
too optimistic. The real roots of war have
not been severed inside the Reich. They
are hidden beneath the festering mess
which is Germany today.”_ Marquis Childs.

--- Page 31 ---
