--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---
UNITED STATES ZONE, GERMANY
Greater Hesse, Wiirttemberg-Baden

Zwour or:

WALOEGK fore

KASSEL

Jans SJE

ed SCHWEGE

ape BRITISH ZONE

Switzen-
SRaUseN

\ FRONKENBERG UGrarraae 2T~y
“7 HOMBERG
( ao en X ROTEN BURG
oe.
necen= X
¥

nai’ ( HERSFELO

7 5 RUSSIAN
. —

ZONE

FRENCH

maha

3
aia —s
PRR a BG

waaay

w
LEGEND fe oe
/

oe b
—— RecieruncssEziere ann ° “any Chan
—
LANDESBEZIRK GADEN ¥ sopenare
rag He iwEN-
ficnsince wy SHE
———— LANOKREISE AND STADTKREISE ‘ Nw

WN

uLM

0 5 0 10 20 30 30 50
wives ee |

TATISTICS SECTION
C GEN STAFF USFET

ett

--- Page 4 ---
NO. 34 — 23 MARCH 1946

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U.S.)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
CONTENTS

x

Military Government Directives

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY
J’Accuse

A German News Service Is Born .

GENERAL re
The Dependents Are Coming To The Eto .

Don't Bring Them Back...Unless A Job Exists .

GERMAN REACTIONS
We And The Occupation
Art For Art's Sake .

PRESS COMMENTS
Columns .

Radio .

Station List .

PAGE

10

13
13
15

16
16
17

18
18
19

31

--- Page 7 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT LETTERS AND
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED RECENTLY

Loyalty Screening of Information and Education Personnel .

Emigration to the United States .
Civilian Employment in European Theater .
Arrival of Dependents .

European Lecturers .

AG 250.1 GAP-AGO
12 March 1946

AG 014.391 GEC-AGO
13 March 1946

AG 230 GAP-AGCP
13 March 1946

AG 230 GAP-AGO
13 March 1946

AG 352 GAP-AGO
18 March 1946

--- Page 8 ---
The charges brought by the French pro-
secution at Nurnberg stressed nazi crimes against
the human spirit, the dignity of man, and the integrity
of individual personality, both within Germany ond inthe
rest of over-run Europe. Excerpts have been selected

from the introductory statement of M. Francois de
Menthon, Delegate of the Provisional Government

of the French Republic, before the International
Military Tribunal. Taken together with the open-

The con-
science of the
peoples who only
yesterday were en-
slaved and_ tortured
both in soul and body calls
upon you to judge and to
condemn the most monstrous
attempt at domination and bar-
barism of all time, both in the
persons of some of these who
bear the chief responsibility
and in the groups and associa-
tions which were the essential
instruments of their crimes.

France, who so. often in
history has been the spokes-
man and the champion of
human liberty, of human val-
ues, of human _ progress,
through my voice today also
becomes the interpreter of the
martyred peoples of western
Europe, Norway, Denmark, the
Netherlands, Belgium, Luxem-
bourg: Peoples more . than
others. devoted to. peace,
peoples who are among the
noblest of humanity by their
aspirations and their worship
of the values of civilization,
peoples who have shared our
and have refused,
like us, to give up liberty and

sufferings

to sacrifice
their souls
before the as-
sault of nazi
barbarism.
France now be-
comes their in-
terpreter to de-.
mand that justice be done.

The tortured peoples’ crav-
ing for justice is the basic
foundation of France’s call to
your High Tribunal. It is not
the only one, nor perhaps the
most important one. More than
the past, our eyes are turned
toward the future.

We believe that there can be
no lasting peace nor any cer-
for humanity,
still torn

and an-

@

tain
which
asunder,

progress
today is
suffering

guished, except through the

ing speech of the American Prosecutor, Mr.
Robert H. Jackson, which appeared in
the last issue of the WEEKLY INFORMA-
TION BULLETIN, the reader is afford-
ed a more complete picture
of the scope of the Nirn-
berg trials - and of
the depths of nazi
depravity.

--- Page 9 ---
cooperation of all peoples and through
the progressive establishment of a real
international society.

Technical procedures and diplomatic
arrangements will not suffice. There can
be no well-balanced and enduring nation
without a common consent in the
essential rules of social living, without
a general standard of. behavior before
the claims of conscience, without the
adherence of all citizens to identical con-
cepts of good and of evil; there is no
domestic law which in defining and
punishing criminal violations “is ‘not
founded on criteria of a moral order
which are accepted by all — in a word,
without a common morality. There can
be no society of nations tomorrow
without an international morality, without
a certain community of spiritual civili-
zation, without an identical hierarchy of
values. International law will be called
upon to recognize and guarantee the
punishment of the gravest violations of
the universally accepted moral laws. This
morality and this international criminal
law, indispensable for the final establish-
ment of peaceful cooperation and of
progress on lasting foundations, are in-
conceivable to us today, after the
experience of past centuries and more
especially of these last years, after the
incredible and awesome sacrifices and
the sufferings of men of all races and of
all nationalities, as built on the respect
of the human person by every human per-
son whosoever he may be, as well as on
the limitation of the sovereignty of states.

But in order that we may have the
hope of founding an international society
through the free cooperation of all
peoples on this morality and on this
international law, it is necessary that
after having premeditated, prepared and
launched a war of aggression which has
caused the death of millions of men
and the ruin of a great number of nations,
after having thereupon piled up the most
bdious crimes in the course of the war
years, nazi Germany shall be declared

guilty and her rulers and those chiefly
responsible punished as such. Without
this sentence and without this punishment
the nations would have no faith in justice.
‘When you have declared that crime is
always crime, whether committed by a
national entity against other nations or
by one individual against another, you
will thereby have affirmed that there is
only one morality, which applies to inter-
national relations as well as to individual
relationships, and-that on this morality
are built prescriptions of law recognized
by the international community; you will
then™~have truly begun to establish an
international justice.

AWAKEN GERMAN CONSCIENCE

This work of justice is equally in-
dispensable for the future of the Ger-
man people. These people have been for
many years intoxicated by nazism; cer-
tain of their eternal and deep-seated aspi-
rations, under this regime. They have
found a monstrous expression, their
entire responsibility is involved, not only
by their general acceptance but by the
effective partizipation of a great number
of them in the crimes committed. Their
re-education is indispensable. This repre-
sents a difficult enterprise and one of
long duration. The efforts which the free
peoples will have to make in order to
reintegrate Germany in the international
community cannot succeed in the end if
this re-education is not carried out effec-
tively. The initial condemnation of nazi
Germany by your High Tribunal will
be a first lesson for these people. It will
constitute the best starting point for the
work of revising their values and of their
re-education during the coming years.

CRIME AGAINST INDIVIDUAL DIGNITY

Judge Jackson has given you the
details of the various phases and aspects
of the national-socialist plot, its platining
and its developinent, from the first days
of Hitler’s and his companion’s con-
spiracy and their subsequent rise

--- Page 10 ---
to power, until the. unleashing of. innu-
merable crimes in-a Europe almost en-
tirely at their mercy. -

Sir Hartley Shawcross has enumerated
the various breaches of treaties, of agree-
ments , of promises which were the
prelude to the many wars of aggression
of which Germany was guilty.

I propose today to prove to you all this
organized and vast: criminality springs
from what I may be allowed to call a
crime against the spirit. I mean a doctrine
which ... aims to plunge humanity back
into barbarism, no longer the natural and
spontaneous barbarism of primitive na-
tions, but into a diabolical barbarism,
conscious of itself and utilizing for its
ends all material means put at the
disposal of mankind by contemporary
science. This sin against the spirit, is
the original sin of national-socialism
from which all crimes spring.

This monstrous doctrine is that of
racism:

The German race, composed in theory
of Aryans, would be a fundamental and
natural concept. Germans as individuals
do not exist and cannot justify their
existence, except in so far as they belong
to the race or Volkstum, to the popular
mass which represents and amalgamates
all Germans. Race is the matrix of the
German people; proceeding therefrom this
people lives and develops as an organism.
The German may consider himself only
as a healthy and vigorous member of this
body, fulfilling within the collectivity a
definite technical function; his activity
and his usefulness are the exact gauge
and justification of his liberty. This na-
tional body must be “moulded” to prepare
it for a permanent struggle.

The ideas and the bodily symbols of
racism are an integral. part of its political
system; this is what is called authori-
tative or dictatorial biology.

National socialism expressed German
traditions.

How can one ain. that Germany,
fertilized through the centuries by classic

antiquity and Christianity, by the ideals
of liberty, equality: and social justice,
by the common heritage of Western
humanism to which she had brought such
noble and prescious contributions, could
have come to this astonishing return to
primitive barbarism?

In order to understand it and to try to
eradicate from the Germany of tomorrow
the evil: by which, our entire civilization
came. so near to perishing, it must be
recalled that national socialism has deep
and_ remote. origins.

The mysticism of racial community was
born of the spiritual and moral ¢risis
which Germany underwent in the 19th
century and which abruptly broke. out
again in its economic and social structure
through a particularly rapid industriali-
zation. National socialism is in reality
one of the peaks of the moral and
spiritual crisis of modern humanity, con-
vulsed by industrialization and technical
progress, Germany experienced this meta-
morphosis of economic and social life not
only with an extraordinary brutality but
at a time when she did not yet possess
the political equilibrium and the cultural
unity which the other countries of
western Europe had achieved.

Over a people in this state of spiritual
crisis and of negations of traditional
values the culminating philosophy of
Nietzsche was to exercise a dominant in-
fluence. In taking the will to power as a
point of departure, Nietzsche preached,
not inhumanity but superhumanity. If
there is no final cause in the universe,
man — whose body is matter which is at
once feeling and thinking — may mould
the world to his desire, choosing as his
guide a militant biology. If the end of
humanity is a feeling of victorious full-
ness which is both material and spiritual,
all that remains is to insure the selection
of physical specimens who become the,
new aristocracy of masters,

One cannot, doubtlessly, identify the
late philosopy of Nietzsche with the bru-
tal simplicity of national socialism.

--- Page 11 ---
Nevertheless,  national-socialism was
wont'to glorify Nietzsche as one of its
ancestors, And justly so, for he was the
first to formulate in a coherent manner
criticism of the traditional values of
humanism; and also, because his concep-
tion of the government of the masses by
masters’ knowing no restraint isa pre-
view of the nazis regime. Besides,
Nietzsche believed in the sovereign race
and attributed primacy to Germany,
whom he considered endowed with
youthful and unquenchable resources.’

~The myth of racial community which
had arisen from the depths of the Ger-
man soul, unbalanced by the moral and
spiritual crises endured by modern hu-
manity, joined up with the traditional
thesis of Pan-Germanism.

' Fichte’s Addresses to the German Nation
had already, by exalting Germanity,
clearly revealed one of the main key ideas
of Pan-Germanism — namely, that Ger-
many visualizes and organizes the world
as it should be visualized and organized.
The apology of war is also no novelty.
It dates back to Fichte and Hegel, who
had stated that by classifying peoples,
war alone established. justice among
nations.

' The living-space theory appears right
at the beginning of the 19th century. It
isa. well-known geographical .and histo-
vical demonstration which such | people
as Ratzel,. Arthur. Dix-and. Lamprecht
will take up later on, comparing conflicts
between peoples ‘to a savage fight.-be-
tween’ conceptions and realizations of
space and declaring that all history is
moving towards German hegemony.
"State “totalitarianism also has ‘deep
rots in Germany: The absorption of in-
dividuals by the State was hoped for by
Hegel, who wrote, “Individuals disappear
in the presence of the’universal substance
(that is, the people or state idea) and this
substance ‘itself shapes ‘the individuals
who are demanded by the ends in. view.”
(Reason in History, page 32).

Therefore; national: socialism appears
in present-day Germany, not as a sponta-
neous formation which might be due to
the consequence of defeat in 1918;-nor
as the mere invention of ‘a group of men
determined upon seizing power. National
socialism is the ultimate result of a long
evolution of doctrines; the exploitation
by ‘a group'of men of one of the most
profound and ‘most tragic aspects of the
German ‘soul. But the crime committed
by Hitler and his companions will be
precisely that ‘of unleashing: and ex-
ploiting to its extreme limit the latent
force of barbarity, which existed before
him in the German people.

DELIBERATE PLAN FOR WAR

According to “Mein Kampf” the foreign
policy of the Reich must have as its first
objective to give back to Germany
her “independence and her effective
sovereignty” which is clearly an allusion
to the articles of the Treaty of Versailles
referring to disarmament and the demili-
tarization of: the Rhineland. It would then
endeavor to reconquer- the territories
“lost” in 1919,.and fifteen years before
the outbreak of the Second World: War,
the question of Alsace. and - Loraine .is
elearly raised. It; would-also have to seek
to extend German. territories in. Eurepe,
the frontiers of 1914 being “insufficient”
and it would be indispensable to exterd
them by including, “all Germans” in -the
Reich, beginning with the Germans_ of
Austria. :

After‘having reconstituted Greater Ger-
many, ‘national socialism will do every-
thing necessary to “insure the means of
existence” on this--planet of the ‘race
assembled ‘by the ‘State, by~means of
establishing a “healthy relation” between
the size of the population ‘and the extént
of the territory; by “healthy: relation” is
meant’ a ‘situation such that the sub-
sistence of the people will be- assured
by- the ‘Yesources “of” ‘its own territory.
“A. sufficient ‘ivilig “Space - on’ this earth

--- Page 12 ---
ONTO BERLIN
On 1 April the WEEKLY INFORMATION BULLETIN packs its typewriters, paste pots,
_ and blue pencils and travels from USFET, Frankfurt to OMGGUS, Berlin, as part of the °
consolidation movement of US military government functions. (WIB No 33, 16 March 1946)

Address all: correspondence to:

EDITOR, WEEKLY. INFORMATION BULLETIN
CONTROL OFFICE ~
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT: FOR GERMANY, US
APO742, US Army |

will alone insure to
of existence.” - «
*But so far-that is but-a-stage. “When
a people sees: its subsistance: guaranteed
by the excent ofits -territory, it is never:
theless necessary to: think of-insuring the
security of : that territory,” because the
power of a State “arises directly. out
ef the military value ‘ofits ‘geographical
situation.” a ee  , e!
Those ends, Hitler adds; cannot be
reached without a war. It’ will be impos-
sible toobtain ‘the reestablishment’ gf thé
frontier of | 1914: “without, effusion’: of
blood.” How ‘much more- would it -be
impossible to acquire living :space if-one
did -not..prepare: for} a- “clash. of: arms,”

ECONOMIC - DICTATORSHIP FOR WAR
~. Internally, .-rearmament ‘was'' achieved

thanks ‘to a plan of economic and’ finan:
cial measures which affected every aspect

a people its liberty

of ‘national ‘life: The’ entire’ economic
system was directed towards the’ pie-
paration of war. ‘The members ‘of the
government proclaimed priority of arma~
imentb manufacture over ‘all other ~bran-
ches of production. Policy passed beforé
economics. The Fuehrer: declared: “The
people must: be resigned for some -time
to‘ lidving its butter, fats,"and meat: ra»
tioned in- order’ that rearmiament’ may
proceed: at the desired rate.” The Ger-
man- people) did not protest against this
order, The State intervened :to inerease
the ‘production of substitute: goods:which
would-help to relieve the insufficiency:of
raw materials, and would: enable,’ thé
Reich; ‘in -the ‘event. of ‘war, to::maintain
the -level. of production necessary. for ‘the
Army -and': Air Force, ‘even if:-imports
were-to become difficult or : impossible:
The ‘defendant: Goering, -in . September

. (Continued on page:21)

--- Page 13 ---
A GERMAN NEWS SERVICE IS BORN

DANA, the German News Agency, operates under the direction of Brig. Gen.

Robert A. McClure, GSC, Director of Information Control, OMGG (US). Its

origin, problems, and potentialities are discussed here from the point of view
of the democratization of Germany by the Germans.

Restoring news service to Germany
after the long blackout under the nazis
presents problems very different from
those involved in restoring coal produc-
tion or similar economic functions. A
piece of coal has a constant thermal
value which is not affected by the con-
victions of the man who mines it; a news
story, on the contrary, is completely de-
pendent on the convictions of its author.
No long argument is needed here, it is
enough to recall the perverted ravings of
Dr. Goebbels or the weird twists given to
events by other nazi “publicists.”

DEMOCRATIC JOURNALISTS RARE

Because of this peculiarly pliable char-
acter of the printed word, it was dif-
ficult to find journalists. who. could be
trusted with the job of rebuilding. a free
German press. The influence of good ‘and
bad newspapers is enormous. Obviously
this influence must be wielded in the
cause of democracy and international co-
operation in Germany both now and later
if this particularly troubled nation is to
be rehabilitated. It is therefore not suf-
ficient to find competent newsmen
who were no more than nominal nazis;
their past records must be anti-nazi in
order to assure their future performance.
Such men are rare in Germany. The
nazis were particularly implacable in
their pursuit of anyone who possessed
democratic convictions and the courage
of them, and who was able to express
himself clearly and forcefully; and this
is precisely the type of man which is

10

required to reconstruct the German press.
Nevertheless, not even nazi thoroughness
was totally effective; it has therefore
been possible to authorize publication of
a number of papers in the U.S. Zone.

NATIONAL NEWS NEEDED

Merely authorizing publication of a
newspaper and providing facilities and
staff to produce it do not insure its ap-
pearance, however. It must have some-
thing to print, and no city daily is ful-
filling its function if it prints nothing
but focal news. Hence one of the most
immediate problems to be faced was sup-
plying the fledgling. sheets with news of
other parts of Germany and of the world
at large. This had to be done in acountry
where communications were. thoroughly
torn up and were being reinstated only
for military purposes, and often in inade-
quate quantity for such purposes. The
anSwer was a news agency, and steps
were taken forthwith to fill this gap. On
29 June 1945 a 13-man team was’ set
up in an attic in the Hotel Tielemann in
Bad Nauheim, where it began producing
a file in English of domestic German
news. Of the 13 men, four were sent to
Frankfurt, Hoechst, Munich and Wies-
baden as correspondents. News at first
eame from monitoring and from official
sources in addition to these reporters,
and within. weeks the agency was pro-
cessing some 3,000 words a day. Its first
publication was the bulletin “News of
Germany”, which is today a valuable
factual summary of the current German
scene.

--- Page 14 ---
With the licensing of the “Frankfurter
Rundschau”, 31 July 1945, German News
Service acquired its first German
customer. Original plans had provided
that the Dietrict Information Control
‘Units should furnish such licensed news-
papers with regional, zonal or national
news coverage, The Press Control News
Unit assumed this responsibility on a
zonal basis, although it had no immediate
means by which to disseminate the news.
Licensing terms provided that the, news-
Papers were to set aside five per cent of
their income:to pay for the service.
Later this was put on a circulation basis
along with the obligation to make available
to the news agency locally-gathered news
which would in due course be dissemina-
ted to other newspapers. Because of the
absence of wire communication and direct
courier service with’ the “Frankfurter
Rundschau”, service to the newspaper in
the first weeks was unreliable.

CONSOLIDATION OF THE AGENCY

By August 15, sufficient German writing
personnel was assigned to the News Unit
to permit establishment of a German Desk
parallel to the English Desk. Function
of the German. Desk initially was
to rewrite the product of the English
file into German and to process for dis-
tribution such news as arrived from the
field in German. Establishment of this
desk coincided with the move of GNS
to larger quarters on the ground floor of
the Hotel Tielemann.

Meanwhile, the field facilities had been
growing. The four original reporters had
organized news bureaus; correspondents
were dispatched to Berlin and other points,
and exchange arrangements were made
with the other zones of Germany. Com-
munications were also gradually im-
proved, though this still remains a dif-
ficult problem.

Up to this time, processed world news
had been reaching Germany from Allied

1

Press Service in London, and upon its
splitting up into its American and Bri-
tish, components, from United States Press
Service (USPS) at Luxembourg. The time
had come to create a consolidated agen-
cy capable of servicing the newspapers
within the U.S. Zone. A teletype link
was accordingly established between Bad
Nauheim and Luxembourg and on 6 Sep-
tember the German news service emerged
as a full-fledged agency. On that date:

(a) The name DANA — Deutsche All-
gemeine Nachrichten Agentur — was ad-
opted as the German title for the Ger-
man News Service. The name was pur-
posely chosen to avoid any letter combina-
tion recalling DNB.

(b) DANA began receiving a file of
world news in German from USPS. in
Luxembourg. In turn the DANA English
file was sent to Luxembourg for trans-
mission to the OWI’s Overseas News and
Features Bureau (ONAF) in New York
for retransmission to outposts throughout
the world.

(c) DANA’s Hellschreiber transmitter,
a battered, shotup German transmitter
that only a few months before had been
jamming Radio Luxembourg, went on the
air, beaming the consolidated world and
domestic news file to the offices of the
licensed as well as US-published Ger-
man press,

And on this same date DANA hired its
first three German journalists, all ex-
perienced in news work from the days
before the nazis, and released at DANA’s
request from a prisoner-of-war cage.
These men today are the top of DANA’s
skilled German personnel, two of them
having as their current assignment the
covering of the Nuremburg trial,

Consolidation of the files begun on 6
September was completed with consoli-
dation of the Luxembourg and Nauheim
offices on 11 November. From Luxem-
bourg, in addition to highly trained per-
sonnel, DANA received experienced Morse
operators, valuable monitoring equipment

--- Page 15 ---
and other badly néeded items such as of-
fice furniture and typewriters.

»- +. * COMMUNICATIONS

~ It was not until Tate November and
early December that DANA’s communica-
tions ‘with its bureaus, planned in’ the
early days of the organization, began to
materialize, -'Teletype’ circuits were -est=
ablished between Nauheim and the bur-
eaus ‘at Frankfurt, Munich, Wiesbaden,
Stuttgart, Berlin’ and Nuremberg. Munich
in turn ‘is“linked by teletype with Infor-
mation Servicés Branch at Salzburg, and
Bad. Nauheim has a‘line to Hamburg
linking’ DANA with the’ British zonal
press service, Deutsche- Presse Dienst
(DPD). Stuttgart is linked with Tibingen
in the French zone.'A separate link exists
between .DANA: and’ the United ‘States
Information Service in «Paris.. Russian
zone news is received in Berlin from the
Soviet Nachrichten Bureau: (SNB).. As a
result of the'torn conimunications within
Germany those teletypes are still unre-
liable but news ‘is received ‘wjth greater
regularity ‘and in greater volume than
hitherto. .

As a result of these on DANA’s news
service has- increased greatly over that
provided in the’ early days. One of the
agency’s- outstanding jobs to ‘date has
been the coverage of the Nuremberg trial:
In spite of ‘difficulty of determining.the
status of correspondents and securing
admission to the trial for them, DANA
had. by Christmas provided 75,000 words
of straight: coverage plus 40,000 words
of background, ‘text’ and ‘feature material
relating to it. Total DANA output is now
about 15,000 words a day. :

_.. ,..EMPHASIS ON FACTS

DANA’s handling. of news has differed
from the continental practice of leisurely,
interpretative news writting. Taking the
view that this type of writing has’ always
led to the perversion of news, DANA’s
American editors have insisted upon em-

12

ployment of American néws techniques,
notably the traditional lead which -tells
the what, how, when, where and why of
a story, and the building up of detail, ‘so
that:a~story may be trimmed from the
bottom! without: discarding the essential
infortidtion it contains. This policy has
bei based’ on the experiénce gained: in
the:first: licensing at Aachen, where Ger-
ttiaa “editors and readers, after’ a first
balking dt:getting their news “straight,”
wet® weéned-from their old habits and
havé now come to prefer the Anglo-Amar-
ican fews ‘techniques as conductive ‘to
greater " ébjéctivity. Pursuance of this
policy. is‘ strengthened by ‘the fact that
reliable reports. stress the, desire of the
German newspaper readers for news
rather than opinion. :

. GERMAN EDITORS LESS SUSPICIOUS.

Since the English desk in. the ‘central
DANA office exercises most of the editor-
ial control, and because they themselves
were accustomed to handling the unalter-
able protiuntiamentos of Dr. Goebbels,
German editots have displayed some hesi-
tancy in accepting DANA as an objective
news file. All official agencies in Europe
reflect exclusively the bias of their con-
trollers; facts are suppressed or twisted
to fit this bias. This tendency on the part
of the’ German editors ‘has resulted‘ in
imperfect use of DANA. Editors are in
the habit of printing DANA files ver-
batim, without checking facts or correc-
ting the errors which inevitably o¢cur.
They still give disproportionate space to
essays and “appreciations,” despite - the
public’s, demand for more news. By rigid
coverage of spot items, however, and by
providing feature material designed to
fill in the twelve-year gap in the histor-
ical knowledge of most Germans caused
by -the nazi muzzle, DANA is building a
reputation for fair and objective reporting
which will eventually become as well-
established as that of the reputable Ameri-
can agencies.

(Continued: on page 20)

--- Page 16 ---
Generat

THE DEPENDENTS ARE (OMING 10 THE ETO

A‘Summarization of the: Latest Directives; Instructions. and Informa
tion Concerning Movement of Service Families Into the Theater —

No Travel to Bremerhaven... Don’t
plan on meeting the little lady at
Bremerhaven when the dependent ship
arrives. The Army sympathizes with the
desire of ETO personnel to greet depend-
ents at ship side and escort them to their
communities, but limited billeting accom-
modations at Bremerhaven and over-
crowded rail facilities make this impossible,
according to.a USFET directive. A sur-
vey of the telephone and telegraph facili-
ties to Bremen indicated that even per-
sonal communications with arriving fami-
lies must also be tabooed.

But the dependents won’t bé left on their
own, not for one moment. Each military
community is authorized to send one of-
ficer and one enlisted man to meet each
shipment of dependents arriving in the
Port. They: will accompany the. depend-
ents to their communities, The officer and
enlisted. man will be provided: with quar-
ters at the reception accommodations at
Bremerhaven, while waiting for the new
arrivals,

Bringing Them Back... Military per-
sonnel returning to the United States for
temporary duty may be granted, permis-
sion to bring dependents back with them
upon their return to Europe provided the
dependents are eligible for transportation
and billet accommodations in this Theater,
under the established priority system,
states USFET. This provision is effective
immediately.

Similar permission is extended to mili,
tary personnel, who returning to the U.S.
for temporary duty, contemplate mar-

riage while there. However, they must. be
qualified to bring dependents and must
submit an application for this travel in
the normal manner, giving the married

name of the bride-to-be.

13

Automobiles... A USFET directive
now being. printed makes provision for
qualified military personnel to. have their
private automobile shipped. to Europe
whether or not they bring dependents. .

Applications for the shipment of private
automobiles and household goods may.be
made by unmarried military personnel or
by. those who, though qualified, do not
desire to bring dependents to the Theater.
This application will be made on the
dependents form but no priority system
will be established for such , shipments.
Such shipments will be made at US
government expense, provided surplus
space on Army transports is available.

No Spring Shopping in Eto... .. ‘Tf
your ETO-bound-wife is planning to
do her spring shopping in the super-
PX’s soon after arriving you better
inform her that it will be several’ months
before these: facilities are available. The
plans for establishing junior department
stores, for the coming dependents, are
being rushed as-‘speedily as possible.
However, problems ‘of’ locating available
store ‘space, repairing’ those located, and
stocking them with merchandise, are only
a few of the obstacles which will have
to be-solvéd' before the stores can’ open
for. business.

‘The: Army Exchange has: larinotmced
an interim ‘plan to ‘sell some of

--- Page 17 ---
the more essential items throught the
regular PX’s until the department
stores are opened. This isn’t a pro-
mise, but if the planned schedules are
met, the following items will be’ available
in May: Fancy ‘groceries, soft beverages,
perishable fruits and vegetables, infants,

nursing formulae; electrical . appliances, -

household hardware, sporting.goods, toys

and games, radios, phonographs and re- ~ ©

cords, automobile accessories and dry-
goods,

Also during the same month additional
pressing shops, soda fountains, shoe shine
shops, and tailor shops will be opened.

During the month of June the follow-
ing items are expected: Chinaware, glass-
ware, table and cooking utensils, house-
hold furniture, and limited quantities of
essential underclothing, housedresses, ho-
siery, gloves, scarves, shoes, infants’ wear,
and athletic clothing.

During the same month repair shops,
dressmaking shops, beauty parlors, snack
bars, automotive and tire repair shops,
and film developing, printing, and enlarg-
ing services will be available.

If They Are Here ... USFET also an-
nounced that applications forms for bil-
leting accommodations must be submitted
by individuals whose dependents are al-
ready located in occupied territory even
though no transportation is involved. Such
applications must be accompanied by evi-
dence to substantiate the dependent’s
authority to be in the Occupied Zone.

‘The movement of dependents from neu-
tral or Allied countries into the US Oc-
cupied Zone is governed bythe same regu-
lations that are applied in the case of
dependents from the Zone of Interior. The
same application form will be used and
processing will be same.

Voting Offspring May Come Too ...
A new USFET circular states that ap-
plication for. dependents may include un-
married sons and daughters over twenty-

14

one years of age and also outlines the’
establishment of satellite communities for

‘the benefit of units located outside of the

designated family communities.

These satellites will be established only
mvhen necessary and must. be located
within a reasonable distance of an estab-

lished - community- in erder- to: provide

necessary administration and security.

RR Security For Household Goods...
If you are worried about the safety of
your family heirlooms and _ furniture
while they are being transported through
Europe, relax, they will be in safe hands.
The Railway Security Section, Provost
Marshal’s Office, USFET, recently an-
nounced that a master plan is being
developed to give special care to depend-
ents effects while in transport. It is ex-
pected that this plan will reduce the
chances of pilferage to a minimum.

Transportation For Dependents .....
Plans for transportation of dependents
coming to the European Theater are vir-
tually, complete, it was announced by
UFSET. Officials working on the complex
program point out, however, that . the
luxury of first class stateside Pullman
travel should not be expected over here.

While much progress has been made in
the rehabilitation of ‘continental trans-
portation, particularly on the main Euro-
pean lines, there in yet a considerable
strain on the entire rail network. The
shortage of sleeping cars is still acute.
This scarcity makes it necessary to re-
strict sleeping car use to trips of 18 to
24 hours, and coaches will be used where
the journeys can be made during laylight.

The program, briefly, shapes up in this
manner:

When the dependents receive authori-
zation and notice to report to the New
York Port of Embarkation, they may
travel at their own expense, later to be
reimbursed by the transportation official
at the port — or they may present their
orders to the local transportation official

--- Page 18 ---
who will issue a transportation request.
This request will be honored by bus lines
or railroads.

Upon arrival at the port of debarka-
tion, Bremen, Germany, the ‘Trans-
portation Corps will furnish the ne-
cessary transportation. In general, the
dependents will transfer directly from
ship-side to waiting transportation and
proceed to their respective destinations.
Staging areas have been established at
the receiving ports to accomodate de-
pendents if transportation is delayed.
This will be very infrequent, it was said.
Busses and sedans will be used to con-
vey dependents to destinations within the
immediate area of debarkation.

A minimum of five weeks will be
required to transport household goods
families on the voyage. It is unlikely,

that personal effects will accompany the
dependents from the US to Europe. Where
possible, however, that personal effects
will arrive at the ultimate destination
with the voyagers.

Transportation Corps will handle the
movement of baggage, furniture and other

‘ personal belongings from the port of

debarkation to the community destination.

Current regulations, it was stated, do
not authorize dependents of enlisted men
below the first three grades free travel.
However, legislation granting free trans-
portation to this lower bracket is
presently before Congress. Pending legis-
lation, authorizing free conveyance to
those below the first three grades, water
transportation only will be furnished at
government expense and all other cost
must be defrayed by the applicant.

Don't Bring Them Back

If the best supply sergeant you ever
had, or the best clerk-typist or auto
mechanic, comes in to bid you goodbye
as he enters the pipe-line for redeployment,
don’t tell him: “Anytime. you want to
come back as a civilian I'll be glad to
have you.”

Over four hundred ex-GIs a month have
been surging into the Overseas Branch
Office of the Secretary of War expecting
to be returned to the ETO as civilian em-
ployees on the basis of commitments
made, usually, in the best of faith by per-
sonnel officers and COs who are without
authority to offer jobs. |

The only way such a job can be legi-
timately promised a returning GI in
which tthe promise can be kept is as fol-
lows:

A specific job must first be in existence
for which a job description has been ap-

15

. » Unless A Job Exists!

proved by Theater classification person-
nel. This is called a job allocation.

The man may then be authorized to go
home, but only for a rest and rehabilita-
tion leave. He must return to the ETO for
discharge from the service.

He must take with him on official let-
ter of committment from an authorized
personnel office saying, in effect: “Upon
your return to the’ ETO and discharge
there is a job at a certain rate in a
specific division waiting for you.” That
job is then considered filled.

The only agency in the States -autho-
rized to recruit and offer ETO civilian
jobs is the Overseas Branch of the Secre-
tary of War. They, in turn, act only upon
information from AG Civilian Personal
in the ETO that specific jobs exist which
cannot be filled here.

--- Page 19 ---
German Reactions

We And The Occupation”

The German public officeholder of
today stands between two fires. He is
responsible to Military Government for a
multitude of administrative and enforce-
ment details; and he must bear the brunt
of criticism and very likely incur the dis-
favor of the German electorate. To him
falls the task of interpreting one to the
other.

In a recent radio address the Oberbiir-
germeister of Frankfurt, Dr. Blaum, de-
scribed the activities of the American force
and explained its relationship to the Ger-
man people. The full text of his speech,
“We and the Occupation Power,” follows.

“Today I would like to spend a little
time on a rather touchy subject. It con-
cerns the opinion that some people believe
they are obliged to hold about the
functions of the American occupation
forces. There are people who com-
plain that destroyed houses have
not been rebuilt with American material,
labor, and especially American money.
They complain that the occupation forces
do not supply us fully with food, clothing,
coal, household articles, if possible
bought with their money — yes, even that
everything is not yet back to the way
it was in our most prosperous peace
years, about 16 years ago.

We hear criticized the use of our
dwellings, the closing of certain streets,
the curfew, and lots of other things. It
follows logically that it has also been
said that the present German administra-
tion is incompetent, and everything was
not done which was expected. But, pause
a moment, please, and think.

16

First: Who caused Germany’s present
condition of destruction and suffering?
The occupation forces, who warned us
in good time about Hitler’s politics and
only fought back in war? Those Ger-
mans who threw themselves into the
breach and are now working at the
thankless task of saving the people?
Whoever has not learned from recent
history were the criminals are, should just
read about the Niirnberg trials.

Secondly: Even during the war England
and the United States pointed out what
terrible consequences modern warfare
would have. They warned that Germany
could not expect any help from the win-
ning mations; but that the Germans would
have to use their own means to get
through the difficult period of post-war
need. Since April 1945 the leaders of
the American occupation forces have also
pointed out that those nations which were
destroyed by Germany during the war
would have to be rebuilt before Germany.

Thirdly: Food broughtin by the Ameri-
can occupation forces has prevented the
great starvation which might have oc-
curred. Alone we would never have been
able to maintain 1300 to 2000 calories.
Furthermore, we must not forget that the
American occupation forces get their food
almost entirely from the States, although
by international law occupation forces
are entitled to take their food from the
occupied country — as the Germans did
in the countries they conquered. The
Americans have also supplied medicine,
medical supplies, and beds for hospitals,
which made emergency help for the sick

--- Page 20 ---
much easier from the beginning of their
occupation.

Fourthly: The delivery of food and fuel
would have been entirely impossible with
the crippled German transportation
system had not the Americans supplied
us with gasoline. .

For all this the German population
owes the American occupation forces
thanks: and respect, for they saved us
from the worst. :

Fifth : Rehabilitation in the cultural
field was possible only through the
interest and help of the American occu-
pation forces. We are also indebted to
them for being able to open the schools,
even if only on a limited basis, as well
as the Frankfurt University.

Sixth: Restoration of civil government
in all areas would not have been possible
without the help and foresight of the
Military Government Detachments. That
denazification was foremade in the politi-
eal aims of this war should be under-
standable to everybody, Every citizen
should also understand what destruction,
yes even complete disappearance of public
order, was left behind by the nazi regime.
Today we holders of public office have
had to start from scratch, especially with

regard to personnel. We had to develop a
completely new machine, for the nazi
regime had entirely disrupted civil ad-
ministration. Here, also ,we have to thank
the American occupation forces for saving
the German population from absolute
chaos,

These things must all be publicly
voiced so that people can realize how
greatly they have lost their sense of
values during the nazi regime. They should
have learned to respect the occupation
forces during the last ten months. There
are many things still to be corrected;
but we should not forget that we owe
everything that has happened to us to
Hitler’s regime, not to the occupation
forces or to those who try to help the
German people.

Above and beyond all this, I must
thank the American occupation forces
because their laws have never in any
manner wounded German honor. Their
‘war aims were to destroy national so-
cialism and German militarism, but the
occupation forces have always tried not
to make the German suffering any great-
er than we ourselves have caused it
to be.

ART FOR ART’S SAKE?

A recent edition of the Fuldaer Volks-
zeitung carried an article by George
Simon asserting thatifthe “little man” is
to be punished for his affiliations with
the nazis, then surely such leading figures
as Wilhelm Furtwaengler should also
be punished for such affiliations. Follow-
ing are extracts of the article:

“Tt was the idea of the American pro-
secutor Jackson, not to accuse the whole
of the German people. Thereby this
question is brought up: Where is the
part of the nation that must be declared
guilty? To start off with, they are the

17

people against whom measures have al-
ready been taken in the course of the
political cleanup. The circle must be
widened to those people who are now
very quick at explaining why they were
not nazis, and to those people who
actually were not members of the party
but could never stop telling you about
Hitler’s ‘honest intentions’ and how they
believed in ‘super-natural miracles’ to the
end. Especially the prominent people are
guilty. Hitler and his doings were good
enough for them to realize their personal
ambitions. (Continued on page 20)

--- Page 21 ---
(Dress Comments

ree eT Th
tt in i ==¢ Houston a,
Hae 2 Sc fess =

— i Tue CurIstian SCIENCE Monrron

Ton SN MONON
je Ne

American News Execs Tour Us Zone

Seven American newspaper executives
representing fifty US publication will
arrive in Frankfurt on 25 March to com-
mence a ten-day tour of the US Zone of
Occupation, in acceptance of the in-
vitation extended to the group by General
Joseph T. McNarney.

The seven representatives of regional
newspapers and nine affiliated radio
broadcasting stations, are now in the
final days of a three-week tour of France,
as quests of the Syndicate of French
Regional Dailies, a non-governmental or-
ganization of privately owned newspapers
in France.

- The present itinerary calls for visits
to US Headquarters in Frankfurt and
tours of several supply installations and
depots in the Frankfurt area, after which
the party will depart for Berlin. Other
stops will be at Stuttgart for a tour
of Military Government installations,
visits to Heidelberg, Stuttgart, Munich
and Dachau. One of the features of the
tour will be a one day attendance at
the War Crimes Trial at Nuremberg.

Members of the group are: Philipp D.
Adler, of Kewanee, III, editor and
publisher of the “Kewanee Star Courier,”
representing ten Lee Syndicate news-
papers in five Middle-Western states.

John P. Harris, of Hutchinson, Kan.,
representing the John P. Harris and
Sidney H. Harris newspapers, four in
Kansas and one in Iowa.

Farewell W. Perry, of New York City,
representing six Florida newspapers, one
Kentucky publication and four radio
stations, property of the J. H. Perry
Newspapers Inc. chain.

18

Roy Pinkerton of Ventura, California,
editorial director of the John P. Scripps
Newspapers, representing four California
newspapers and one in Bremerton, Wash.

Walter P. Jones of Sacramento, Calif.,
editor of the McClatchy newspapers in
California, and representing the five
McClatchy broadcasting stations in that
state.

L. R. Blanchard, of Rochester, N. Y.,
director of the news and editorial office
of the Gannett newspapers, representing
that chain’s twenty publications in four
states.

Edward Lindsay, of Decatur, III,
editor of the Decatur Newspapers, Inc.,
representing the Illionis dailies published
by that chain.

MERE CAMOUFLAGE

In a piece which appeared in The New
York Times, Raymond Daniell announces
“many occupation authorities . . . hold the
pace of our withdra-
wal from the control
of the press and
radio, courts and the
. denazification pro-

gram is too swift.
These critics contend that the alleged
readiness of the Germans to embrace the
principles of democracy is a mere camou-
flage to cover the depleted Army’s
inadequacy to meet the task before it.

MORE LATITUDE
FOR GERMAN ORGANIZATIONS
Gradually working towards the day
when political parties and trade unions in
Germany will be organized on a nation-
wide basis which American policy

--- Page 22 ---
strongly favors, word now comes from
Lt. General Clay, reports the Washington
Post, that orders have now gone out
“to allow political groups in the Amer-
ican Zone to organize on a zonal basis.”

NO DECISION

Because of a recent rumor that
‘Washington was preparing to reject
French demands for nationalization of
the Ruhr, says the New York Herald
Tribune, the State Department has taken
upon itself “to explain that no decision
had been made and that the negotiations
now proceeding with the French were not
empty and meaningless discussions.”

LOSING FACE

Notwithstanding the fact that no
visible opposition to occupation authority
has broken out so far in the American
Zone, Raymond Daniell in a New York
Times dispatch voices the opinion “US
controls in Germany are’ slipping. For
instance, some districts completely
without occupying forces. This is creating
some apprehension among Military Gov-
ernment detachments, who say that it is
causing a rising feeling of insecurity
among the local population.... One
interesting fact ... few months ago the
American Occupation Zone . .. promised
land for Germans living elsewhere, resi-
dents of it now are making onerous com-
parison.. with.. other zones.. Vigorous
pursuit of the denazification program in
the U. S. zone is partly responsible for
the change in attitude. Now the US
is short not only of experts but of man-
power, and is losing face not only with
the Germans but with the Allies. The Bri-
‘ish and French ... wonder how long ...
US to bear its share of responsibility
for policing Germany.

RUSSIAN GOOD WILL
The New York Herald Tribune reports
. attitude of the Russians toward
starting up Germany’s peace-time eco-
nomy ... winning ... good will of the

<“

19,

German people that was lost when the
Russians engaged in vast deportations
of German machinery.”

SAVING EUROPE

Food is the best antidote, says Lisa
Sergio of the American Broadcasting
Company, to an old German plot designed
to make us “lose the peace by
planning and carrying out a
long-range program throughout
Europe destined to kill most of
its inhabitants at the very time
in which a strong and healthy
Europe, willing to undertake the struggle
of reconstruction, was bound to be one
of the major assets of peace. What has
been done by the Germans by way of
killing thousands of children and adoles-
cents through starvation cannot be un-
done, but the humanity that is still there
can be saved.”

"GERMAN SCENE

From Pierre Huss of International
‘News Service, John B. Kennedy, of the
American Broadcasting System says he
learns that: 1) “Germans are not starving
in the American and British Zones of
Occupation; 2) in a year or two we'll
be havin ocean liners filled with German
brides of GIs and their children; Ger-
man Communists are active -in the Ame-
rican and British Zones; 3) the American
and British are repeating their experience
after the last war. Their kindness is
being misinterpreted as weakness.”

CHURCH FAILED

Talking to inmates of a US 7th Army
internment camp Pastor Martin Nie-
miller, says the Philadelphia Inquirer,
declared the church was equally guilty
with the German people for the war
“because it hadn’t aroused people against
nazi concentration camps and other hor-
rors when they first began and did not
speak out until the church itself was
attacked.”

--- Page 23 ---
NOTES ON GERMANY

In rapid succession, Orson Welles on
an American Broadcasting Company pro-
gram notes: 1) growing pro-German,
anti-Russian, anti-British propaganda in
this country can be traced to the agents
of the old nazi firm of I.G. Farben; 2)
Several U S Senators now advocate that
we should stop policing Germany; 3)
Senator Wherry wants to start mail
service to Germany so that German

friends in this country can send them
packages. .

MALIGNANT GROWTH

It’s argued by the French, comments
Gabriel Heatter of the Mutual Broad-
casting System, that the “Ruhr gave Ger-
many everything she had to have for
each war. The French say ... why not.
cut that malignant growth out of Ger-
many, internationalize itand use its power
for peacetime production for eveybody.”

(Continued fram page 12)

DANA TO BE ENTIRELY GERMAN

Much of DANA’s staff is already Ger-
man, and additional Germans are being
hired as fast as competent and reliable
newsmen can be found. It is now defi-
nitely planned to turn DANA over entire-
ly to the Germans, and the target date
for this change is 31 March. Many prob-

lems have to be overcome — among them,

are the securing of financial backing,
making arrangements for DANA as an
independent agency to secure the files
of foreign news agencies, procurement of

equipment within the limitations of the
“Trading with the enemy act,” as well
as training of personnel to operate a
news service. This is particularly difficult,
since Germany has never had a modern
independent agency and hence few Ger-
mans know how to operate one. These
problems will be met, however, and with
the completion of arrangements for com-
munication and for continuing American
supervision DANA will eventually take
its place among the major news services
of the world.

(Continued from page 17)

If the ‘little man’ is to be punished
because he was a party member by losing
his job and various other measures, cer-
tainly those must also atone for their sins
who had been set up as_ illustrious
examples. For example: Although it has
been said that Furtwaengler will not be
allowed to conduct any longer, influential
powers are at work to rehabilitate him
because of his great ability. But is it
to be taken into consideration that this
interpreter of art, in the service of nation-
al socialism just like thousands of other
undecided ones, made believe that he
‘was committing no wrong by following

20

those who put him on a pedestal as a
bearer of culture?

“We consider the ‘small people” guilty
because they belonged to the party and
they very often only lived in the super-
ficial atmosphere of the national socialist
films. There are thousands like that:
They ran after a Paula Wessely or a Leni
Riefenstahl. And now weare experiencing
that these same people are forgiven be-
cause of their unchallenged abilities, .
while we ourselves remain despised. The
same is true of the prominent people in
the world of sports who were also an
example for the masses.”

--- Page 24 ---
(Continued from page 9)

1936, inspired the drawing up and
directed the application of the Four
Years’ Plan which put Germany’s econo-
mic system on a war footing. The
expenses entailed by this rearmament
were assured, thanks to the new system
of work treaties. The defendant Schacht,
‘during the three and a half years he
was at the head of the Reich Ministry of
Economics brought into being this finan-
cial machinery and thereby played an
outstanding role in military preparations
as he himself‘ recalled, after he left the
Ministry, in a speech that he made in
November 1938 at the Economic Council
of the German Academy.

Germany thus succeeded in three years
time to recreate a great army and to
create, on the technical plane, an organi-
zation entirely devoted to future war.
‘On the 5th of November 1937, when ex-
pounding his plan for home policy to
his collaborators, Hitler was able to state
that rearmament was practically com-
pleted.

TREATIES A MEANS OF AGGRESSION

' Thereupon started the series of aggres-
sions which have already been detailed
to this court. It has also been shown to
-you that these various aggressions have
been made in violation of international
treaties and of the principles of inter-
national law. As a matter of fact Ger-
man propaganda did not challenge that at
‘the time. It merely stated that those
treaties and those principles “had lost
any reality -whatever with the passage
-of time.” In other words, it simply
-denied that one’s pledged word had any
value, and asserted that the principles
-which form the basis of international
law had become obsolete. This isa
‘reasoning which is in line with the na-
tional socialist doctrines which, as we
thave seen, do not recognize any inter-
mational law, and state that any means

21

is justifiable if it is of a nature to
serve the interests of the German race.

As Sir Hartley Shawcross forefully
brought out before your High Tri-
bunal, war of aggression is self-evi-
dently a violation of international law
and, more particularly, a violation of the
General Treaty for the Renouncement
of War of 27 August 1928, under the
name of the Paris Pact, or the Kellogg-
Briand Pact, of which Germany is one
of the signatories. This pact continues
to consitute a part of international law.

May I rereard Article I of this Treaty:

“The High Contracting Parties sol-
emnly declare, in the name of their
respective peoples, that they condemn
recourse to war for the solution of
international disagreements and renounce
it as an instrument of national policy
in their reciprocal relations.”

Wars of aggression thus ceased in
1928 to be lawful.

Acts committed in the prosecution of
a war are assaults on persons and goods
which are themselves prohibited and en-
tail sanctions in all legislations. The state
of war could’ make them legitimate only
if the war itself was legitimate. Inasmuch
as this is no longer the case, since the
Kellogg-Briand Pact, these acts become
purely and simply common law crimes.
As Justice Jackson has already ar-
gued before you with irrefutable logic,
any recourse to war is a recourse to
means which are in themselves criminal.

CONQUERED COUNTRIES

Crimes committed by the nazis in the
course of the war, like the war of aggres-
sion itself, will be, as Mr. Justice
Jackson has demonstrated to you, the
manifestation of a concerned and methodi-
cally executed plan.

These crimes flow directly, like the
war itself, from the national: socialist
doctrine. This doctrine is indifferent to
the moral choice of means. to attain a

--- Page 25 ---
final success, and for this doctrine the
aim of war is pillage, destruction, and
extermination.

Total war, totalitarian in its methods
and its aims, is dictated by the pri-
macy of the German race and the
negation of any other value. The nazi
conception maintains selection as a nat-
ural principle. The man who does not
belong to the superior race counts for
nothing. Human life and liberty, person-
ality, the dignity of man, have
no importance when an adversary of the
German community is involved. It is
truly “the return to barbarism” with all
its consequences. Logically consistent, na-
tional socialism goes to the length of as-
suming the right totally to exterminate
races regarded as hostile or deca-
dent, or individuals and groups ca-
pable of resistance in the nations
to be subjugated and put to use. Does
not the idea of totalitarian war imply
the annihilation of any eventual resis-
tance? All these who in any way may
be capable of opposing the New Order
hegemony will be liquidated. It thus be-
comes possible to assure an absolute
domination over a neighboring people
reduced to impotence and to utilize, for
the benefit of the Reich, the resources
and the human material of those people
reduced to slavery.

All the former conceptions which
tended to humanize war are obviously
outdated; more than this, all international
conventions which had undertaken to
bring some extenuation of the evils of
war. The conquered peoples must concur
willingly or by force in the German
victory by their material resources, as
well as by their labor potential. Means
will be found to subject them.

Among the conquered peoples, distinc-
tions can be made according to whether
the national socialists consider them as
belonging or not belonging to the master
race. For the first, an effort is made to
integrate them into the German Reich

in spite of themselves. For the latter,
there is applied a policy of weakening
them and bringing about their extinction
by every means from that of appropria-
tion of their property to that of exter-
mination of persons. In regard to both
groups, the nazi rulers assault not only
the property and physical persons, but
also the spirits and souls. They seek
to allign the populations according to
the nazi dogma and behavior when they
wish to integrate them in the German
community; they apply themselves at
least to rooting out whlatever conceptions
are irreconcilable with the nazi universe;
they aim to reduce to a mentality and
status of slaves those men whose national-
ity they wish to eradicate for the benefit
of the German race.

FORCED LABOR

The conception of total war, which
gave rise to all the crimes which were
to be perpetrated by the nazi Germans
in the occupied countries, was the
basis of the forced labor service. Through
this insitution, Germany proposed to
utilize to the maximum the labor potential
of the enslaved populations in order to
maintain the German war production at
the necessary level. Moreover, there can
be no doubt that this institution was
linked with the German plan of “exter-
mination through labor” of the popula-
tions adjoining Germany which she re-
garded as dangerous or inferior.

A document of the Supreme Command
of the Armed Forces of Germany, dated
1 October 1938, provided for the forced
employment of prisoners and civilians for
war labor. Hitler in his speech of 9 No-
vember 1941 “did not doubt for a mo-
ment that in the occupied territories
which we control at present, we shall
make the last man work for us.”

In the face of the patriotic resistance
of the workers of the different occupied
countries, the important results which
the German Labor Office had antici-

--- Page 26 ---
pated were far from being fulfilled.
However, a large number of workers
from the occupied countries were forced
to work for the German war effort.
With regard to the Todt organization,
the laborers who were employed in the
West in the construction of the. Atlantic
‘Wall totalled 248,000 at the end of
March 1943.. In the year 1942, 3,300,000
workers from occupied countries worked
for Germany in their own country. 300,000
of these were in Norway, 249,000 in
Holland, 650,000 in France. The number
of workers deported to Germany and
coming from the occupied territories in
the West increased in 1942 to the figure
of 131,000 Belgians, 135,000 Frenchmen,
154,000 Hollanders. On 30 April 1943,
1,293,000 workmen, of whom 269,000
were women, coming from the occupied
territories in the West were working
fo the German War Economy. On 7 July
1944, Sauckel stated that the number
of workers deported to Germany during
this first six months of 1944 reached
_ a total of 537,000 of which 33,000 were
Frenchmen. On the 1st of March 1944
he acknowledged during a conference
held by the Central Office of the Four
Year Plan, that there were in Germany
5,000,000 foreign workers, of whom
200,000 were actually volunteers.

EXPROPRIATION OF WEALTH

National socialist Germany, while ex-
ploiting to the fullest extent for the
war effort prisoners of war as well as
workers from occupied countries, against
all international conventions, was at the
same time seizing by every possible
means the wealth of these countries. Ger-
man authorities applied systematic pillage
in these countries. By economic pillage
we mean both the taking away of goods
of every type and the exploitation on
the spot of the natural resources for the
benefit of Germany’s war. This pillage
was methodically organized.

The Germans began by making sure
that they had in their possession in all

countries the necessary means for pay-
ment, Thus they insured that they could
seize, with the appearance of legality,
the wealth which they coveted. After
freezing the existing means of pay-
ment, they required enormous payments
under the pretext of indemnity for the
maintenance of occupation troops.

“SEVERE OCCUPATION COSTS

It should .be recalled that according
to the terms of the Hague Convention
occupied countries may be obliged to
assume the burden of the expenses caused
by the maintenance of an army of occu-
pation. But the amounts that were exact-
ed under this by the Germans were far
removed from the actual costs of occu-
pation.

Moreover, they forced the occupied
countries to accept a clearing system
which operated practically for the ex-
chusive profit of Germany. Imports from
Germany were almost non-existent; the
goods exported to Germany were sub-
ject to no regulation.

In Denmark, which was the first
country in western Europe to be in-
vaded, the value of German seizures was
nearly 9,000,000,000 crowns. In Norway,
Germany’s spoliations exceed a_ total
value of 20,000,000,000 crowns.

In the Netherlands, German pillage
was effected to such an extent that
although Holland is one of the richest
countries in the world in relation to its
population, it is today almost completely
ruined and the financial charges imposed
by the occupant exceed 20,000,000,000
florins.

In Belgium, through various schemes,
notably the system of occupation indem-
nity and clearing, the Germans seized far
more than 30,000,000,000 franes of pay-
ment balances. The Grand Duchy of
Luxembourg also suffered important
losses as result of the action of the
occupying power.

Finally in France, the seizures on
means of payments reached a total of

--- Page 27 ---
745,000,000,000: francs. In this sum we
have not included the 74,000,000,000
which represents the maximum figure
which Germany could legally demand for
the maintenance of her army of occu-
pation. (Moreover, ‘the. ‘seizure’ of
9,500,000,000 :in gold was calculated at
the rate of 1939.)°:

In addition to the goods settled for in
the occupied countries by means of pay-
ment which‘had been forcibly seized from
these countries, enormous quantities of
goods of every character were purely
and simply requisitioned without any in-
demnity, seized: without any explanation,
or stolen. The occupying authorities took
not only all raw materials and manufac-
tured goods which could be useful to
their war efforts, but they extended their
seizures to everything that might ‘help
to procure them a credit balance in neu-
tral countries, such as ‘real estate, jewels,
luxury goods and: objects. Finally, the
artistic treasures of the countries of
western Europe were likewise looted in
the most shameful manner.

The considerable amounts which Ger-
many was able to obtain by abusing her
power contrary to all the principles of
international law without’ providing any
counterpart, enabled her to carry out
with the appearance of legality the eco-
nomic looting of France and ‘of the other
countries of western Europe. The con-
sequence for these countries, from the
“economic viewpoint, is a loss of. their
strength‘ which will take many years to
repair,

MISTREATMENT OF POPULACE

Arbitrary imprisonment, ill treatments,
deportations, even murder committed by
the Germans: in’ the ‘occupied countries
reached proportions: beyond what could
be imagined ‘even in ‘the course of a world
cofflict; These’ crimes took the most
odious forms. :

Such crimes spring directly from: the
nazi doctrine and testify among the lead-
ers of ‘the Reich to an absolute ‘scorn

24

for the human individual, to the aboli-
tion of any sense of justice or even pity,
to a total subordination of any human
consideration unless it be to the interest
of German collectivity.

All these crimes are related to a policy
of terrorism. Such a policy permits the
subjugation of occupied countries with-
out involving a large deployment of
troops submissive to anything that might
be demanded of them. Many of these
crimes are moreover related to the will to
exterminate. We shall examine in suc-
cession executions of hostages, police
crimes, deportations; crimes involving
prisoners of war, terroristic activities
against the Resistance’ and the massacre
of civilian populations.

HOSTAGES: EXECUTED

' The execution of hostages consti-
tutes in all countries the first acts of
terrorism on the part of German oc-
cupation troops. As early as 1940, the
German High’ Command in France
carried out numerous executions as repri-
sals for any crime against the German
Army. In the execution of this ordinance
the most tragic known executions of host-
ages were carried out.

Following the murder of two German
officers, one in Nantes on 2 October
1941, and the other at Bordeaux a few
days thereafter, the German authorities
had 27 hostages shot at Chateaubriant,
and 21 at Nantes.

On 15 August 1942, 96 hostages. were
shot at Mont-Valerien. In September
1942, an assault had , been . committed
against German soldiers in the -Rex
moving picture house in Paris, 116. host-
ages were shot. 46 hostages were taken
from the hostages depot of the Fortress
at Romainville and 70 from Bordeaux.

Among the crimes against persons -of
which the civilian populations of the occu-
pied countries of the West: were victims,
those committed by the nazi police or-
ganizations are among the most revolting.

--- Page 28 ---
The intervention ‘of the’ German‘ police
who, in. spite-of certain appearances, did
notbelong to the armies of occupation,
is: in itself:contrary to international law.
Its’ ctimes, particularly hateful in the
complete disregard for human dignity
they imply, were. multiplied during four
years throughout all the territories of the
West occupied by German forces.
» Arrests took place without any of. the
elementary guarantees recognized in‘ all
civilized: countries. On a simple unveri-
fied denunciation, ‘and -without ‘previous
investigation, and often: without the per-
sons‘ who® brought the charges ‘being
qualified to bring them,’ masses. of “ar-
bitraty arrests took- place: 1 in every oc-
eupied: country. ° ;

~ The. worst treatments were applied’ to
arrested ‘persons: even before the culpa-
bility: of ‘the accused has been examined.
The ‘use’ of torture in'the interrogations
was almost a general rule. The tortures
usually ‘applied’ are’ beating, -whipping,
chaihing for’ several days without a mo-
thent’ of: rest for. nourishment or hygienic
care? Immersion in ice: water, ‘drowning
in'a‘bathub, charging the: bathwater with
electricity,-electrification of the most sen-
sitive parts of the body, burns at certain
places on the body, tearing out of finger-
nails,

“REMOVAL TO GERMANY. >

The’ crime’ which | will © doubtless:
remain’ the: most ‘tragically memorable
among those committed. by the Germans
against .the civilian populations of. the
occupied countries. was that of deporta-
tion’and internment in the concentration
camps in-Germany. -
< These ‘deportations had a double aim;
to. ‘assure supplementary. work for the
benefit of the German war machine, to
eliminate the occupied countries and: pro-
gressively exterminate the elements most
opposed” to Germanism. ' They ° served
equally to empty ‘prisons overcrowded
with’ patriots and’ to remove the latter
for good.

25

~'The“deportations and ‘the methods em-
ployed in the: concentration camps were
a- stupefying revelation for ‘the civilized
world, Nevertheless they are only a natur-
al consequence of the national socialist
doctrine,: according to which man has
no value in himself -when he is not in the
service of the German race.

It-is‘not possible to give exact figures.
It is probable that one would: remain’
under the truth-in speaking of 250,000 for
France; 6,000 for Luxembourg, 5,200: for
Denmark, 5,400 for Norway, 120,000 for
Holland, 37,000 for Belgium.

CRIMES AGAINST PW’'s

Crimes committed ‘against prisoners
of war, although less known; bear ample
testimony ‘to’ the degree of: inhumanity
which nazi Germany had attained. To
begin with, the violations of international
conventions committed against’ prisoners
of war are ‘numerous. Many ‘were’ forced
to travel ‘on foot, almost without food,
very Jong distarices, Many camps had: 1io
respect- for-even the most elementary
rules of hygiene. Food was very often
insufficient} thus a report from the OK W
of the: WESP, dated'11 April 1945, and
annotated by the defendant Keitel, shows
that 82,000 prisoners of war interned in
Norway received the food strictly indis-
pensable to the maintenance of life on the
assumption that they were not working,
whereas 30,000 of them were really, em-
ployed on heavy work,

In agreement with the defendant Keitel,
acting at the request of the defendant
Goering, camps for prisoners belonging to
the English: and American Air Forces
were establishéd’ in towns: which were
exposed to air raids. °

Contrary to the text of the Geneva
Convention, it was decided, at a confer-
ence held at the Fihrer’s Headquarters
on 27 January 1945, in the presence
of the defendant Goering, to pass the
death sentence on all attempts to escape
tnade“ by’ a prisoner of war when in
convoy.

--- Page 29 ---
Besides all these violations of the Ge-
neva Convention, numereus crimes have
been committed by the German authori-
ties against prisoners of war: Execution
of captured allied airmen, murder of com-
mandos, collective extermination of cer-
tain prisoners of war for no reagon what-
soever, e.g. of 120 American soldiers at
Malmedy on 27 January 1945. Parallel
with “Nacht und Nebel” expression for
the inhuman treatment inflicted on civil-
ians, can be put down “Sonderhandlung,”
“Special Treatment” of prisoners of war
when these disappeared in great numbers.

The same barbarity is found in the ter-
roristic action carried out by the German
Army and police against the Resistance.

The order of the defendant Keitel of
the 16th of September 1941, which may be
considered as a basic document, certainly
has as a purpose the fight against the
communist movements but it foresees that
resistance to the army of occupation can
come from other than Communist sources
and decides that every case of resistance
is to be interpreted as having a Com-
munist origin.

As a matter of fact, in carrying out
this general order to annihilate the Re-
this general order to annihilate the Re-
sistance by every possible means, the
sacred men of all conditions and of all
social classes.

INTENSIFIED TERRORISM

The last months of the German
occupation were characterized in France
by strengthening of the policy of ter-
roism which multiplied the crimes against
the civilian populations. The crimes which
we are going to consider were not iso-
lated acts committed from time to time
in such or such locality, but were acts
perpetrated in the course of extensive.
operations; the high number of which can
only be explained by general orders,

All these operations are supposedly
measures of reprisal which were caused
by the action of the Resistance; but: the
necessities of war have never justified

the plundering and heedless burning down
of towns and villages or the blind mas
sacres of innocent people. The Germans
killed, plundered, and burned down, very
often without any reason whatsoever,
whether in the regions and departments
of the Aisne, in Savoy, Lot, Tarn-and-Ga-
ronne, in Vercors, Correze or Dordogne.
Entire villages were burned down when
at the time the nearest armed groups
of the Resistance were many kilometres
away and the population of these vil-
lages had not made a single hostila
gesture towards German troops.

The two most typical examples are
those of Maille (in Indre and Loire)
where on the 25 of August 1944, 52
buildings out of 60 were destroyed and
124 people were killed; and that of Ora-
deur-Sur-Glane (in the Haute- Vienne).
The War Diary of Von Brodowski makes
mention of the latter act in the following
menner;

“All the male population of Oradeur
was shot. The women and children took
refuge in the church, The church caught
fire, Explosives were stored in the church.
(This assertion has been shown to be
false.) All the women and children per-

ished.”

SPIRITUAL PERSECUTION

In the scale of criminal undertakings
perpetrated in the course of the war by
the leaders of national socialist Ger-
many, we finally meet a category which
we have called: Crimes against humanity.

Man is more attached to hie physical
integrity and to life than to his property.
But in all high conceptions of life, man is
even less attached to life than to that
which makes for his dignity and quality,
according to the great Latin maxim: “Et
propter vitam vitandi pordere causes,”
On the other hand, if in the territories oc-
cupied by them, the Germans did not,
in spite of the importance and exteat of
their crimes, plunder all the :property
and goods and if. they did not kill all-the
people, there remains not a single manu

--- Page 30 ---
whose essential rights they did not change
or abolish and whose condition as a
human being they did not violate in some
way. We can even say that in the entire
world and as regards all people, even
those to whom they reserved the privile-
ges belonging to the superior race and
even as regards themselves, their agents
and accomplices, the nazi leaders com-
mitted a major offense against the con-
science which mankind has evolved today
from his condition as a human being.

The role, as we already stated, of the
followers of the Hitlerian faith waa to
protest against spontaneous affirmation
of the genius of mankind and to claim
breaking at this point the continuous
progress of moral intelligence. The tri-
bunal is already acquainted with the abun-
dant literature of this sect. Without a
doubt nobody expressed himself more
clearly than the defendant Rosenberg
when he declares in the “Myth of the
XXth Century,” page 539: “Peoples whose
health is dependent on their blood do not
know. individualism as a criterion of
values, any more than they recognize uni-
versalism. Individualism and universalism
in the absolute sense and historically
speaking are the metaphysics of deca-
dence.” Nazism professes, moreover, that
“The distance between the lowest human
being still worthy of this name and our
higher races is greater than that between
the lowest type of mankind and the best
educated monkey.”

MANKIND -— THREE GROUPS

The nazis propose to classify mankind
into three main categories: That of their ad-
versaries or persons whom they consider in-
adaptable to their strange constructions —
this category can be bullied in all sorte
of manners and even destroyed; that of
higher mankind which they claim is dis-
{inguishable by its blood or by some arbi-
‘trary means; that of inferior mankind,
which does not merit destruction and
whose vital. power should be used in a
regime of slavery for the well-being of

27

the “overlords.” The nazi leaders pro-
posed to’ apply this conception every-
where they could do so — to territories
more and more expansive; to population
becoming ever greater — and in addition
demonstrated the frightful ambition of
succeeding in imposing it on intelligent
people, of convincing their victims and
of demanding from them, in addition to so
many sacrifices, an act of faith.»

This leads to a second aspect which
is the attack on spiritual security. Every-
where, although with variations in time
and in place, the Germans acted to abolish
the public freedoms; notably freedom of
meeting and freedom of the press; and
they endeavored to trammel the essential
freedoms of the spirit.

ABOLITION OF FREEDOM

The German authorities subordinated
to the strictest censorship, even in mat-
ters devoid of military character, a press
many of whose representatives, moreover,
were inspired by them. Manifold restrict-
ions were imposed on the moving picture
industry and commerce. Numerous works
absolutely’ without political character
were banned, even textbooks... Religious
authorities themselves saw their clerical
province. invaded. and words st truth
could not be heard.

After having curtailed freedom of ex-
pression even beyond the degree that a
state of war and of occupation could
have justified, the Germans developed
their national socialist propaganda syétem-
atically through press, radio, film, meeting,
book, poster.

All these efforts achieved so little re-
sult that one might attempt today to
minimize their importance. Nevertheless,
the propaganda conducted by means most
contrary to the respect due human intel-
ligence, and on behalf of a criminal doc-
trine, must go down in history as one of
the shames of the national socialist re-
gime.

No less did the Germanization program
compromise human rights in the other

--- Page 31 ---
broad areas that we have defined: right
of. the family, right: of professional and
economic activity, juridical guarantees.
These rights were attacked, these guar-
antees were curtailed, :

The crimes against persons and property
of which the accused are guilty are. pro-
vided for by. all national, laws. They
present an international.character because
they were committed in several, different
countries; from.this there arises a prob-
Jem of. jurisdiction’ which the Charter of
8 August 1945. has ‘solved, as we have
previously explained; but this leaves in-
tact the rule of. defining them.

-CRIMES IN WAR

A crime of common law, the war crime
is nevertheless not an ordinary infranc-
tion. It has a peculiar intrinsic character
+ it is.a crime committed on the oc-
easion or under the. pretext of war. It
must be punished -because, even’ in time
of war, -attacks on :the: integrity ‘of the
physical person and_‘of property’ are
crimes when: they are ‘not justified by
the laws ‘and customs -of war. The -sol-
dier who on the battlefield kills an
enemy combatant commits a. crime, but
this crime is justified by.the.law. of-war.
International law therefore intervenes’ in
the definition of a war crime, not: in
order. to give it its essential ‘qualification
but’ in order: to ‘set. its outer ‘limits. In
other words, any infraction committed on
the ‘occasion or under the pretext of
hostilities is criminal if it:is not justified
by ‘the laws and’ customs of war:' Inter=
national law applies the national ‘theory
of: legitimate: defense ‘which is. common
to all codes of criminal law. The’ com=
batant is engaged in legitimate: defense
on the battlefield; his homicidal action is
therefore covered: by a’ justifying “fact.
Let the justifying fact disappear, and the
infraction, whether ordinary crime ior‘war
crime, remains in‘ its ‘eritirety. -In order
for the justifying fact to be constituted,
the criminal action must be necessary and
proportional. to:.the threat’. to.-which: it

28

responds, The defendants, against «whom
justice is demanded of you, cannot a

‘such justification.

Neither can they escape "their respon-
sibility by arguing. that they: were not
the physical authors of the crimes. .The
‘war .crime involves distinct and. comple-
mentary responsibilities; that:of the:physi-
cal author and that of. the -instigator.

‘There is ‘nothing heterodox in this. con+

ception. It. is ‘the faithful translation of
the criminal theory of complicity through
instructions. The responsibility of the ac-
eomplice, whether independent of or com-
plementary to that of the principal: author
is incontestable... The accused bear’ the
entire responsibility. of the crimes .which
were committed on their instructions or
under their control,

Finally these crimes cannot be justified
by the pretext of an order from above
given by Hitler: to the defendants. :The
theory of the justifying fact of an order
from above has, in national laws; definite
limits; . it. does, not : cover the - execution
of orders whose: illegality. is ee

PLACING OF GERMAN RESPONSIBILITY

- The. responsibility for Gérman war
criminality, because it constituted a system=
atic policy, planned and prepared be-
fore ‘the opening of -hostilities,' and per-
petrated without. interruption from‘ 1940
to 1945, -rests with’ all the defendants,
political or military leaders, high officials
of national socialist Germany, and leaders
of the nazi party.

Nevertheless, certain“ones among them
appear more directly ‘responsible for the
acts ‘taken ‘as a‘ whole, particularly’ those
comiected with the French ‘charges, that
is to.Say crimes, committed .in' the West»
ern ‘occupied. territories, ‘ or epaitist the
nationals of these countries: i

-- The Reich’s cabinet, the: Reich. leaden!
ship corps of the nazi party, the general
staff, and High. Command of:the Germazi
‘Armed~ Forces: réprasent .ondy --a_ small
number of persons whose guilt and punish-
ment:must. ultimately result from: the.evi-

--- Page 32 ---
dence’ since they participated personally
and directly in the decisions, or the exe-+
cution of them through some eminent
personin the’ political or military hier-
archy, and ‘without being able to ignore
the criminal nature of them, and direc-
tors of the nazi party are unquestionably.
among those most obviously participated
in the criminal enterprise; and around
the defendants Keitel and Jodl the mili-
tary High Command directéd the: Army to
execute hostages, to pillage, to destroy,
and to murder in an unjustified fashion.

ORGANIZATIONAL GUILT ,

_ But perhaps it will seem. to you that to
condemn to punishment hundreds of thous-
ands of men who belonged to the SS, to
the SD, to the Gestapo, to the SA,“awak-
ens some objection. ‘I should like’ to try
in’ this case ‘to do away with that ‘ob-
jection by showing you the dreadful res-
ponsibilities of these men. ‘Without the
existence of ‘these organizations, without
the - spirit ‘which animated’ them, one
would not succeed ‘in’ ‘understanding ‘how
so many atrocities could ‘have been per-
petrated. The systematic war of criminal-
ity could not have -been ¢arried“‘out by
nazi Germany without’ these organiza-
tions, without: the ‘men who ‘composed
them. It is they who for Germany not

only executed but willed this.body..of..

crime.

And that these atrocities and these
cruelties were perpetrated within the
rigid framework created by the esprit
de corps, by the soldierly solidarity which
bound individuals and insured through
the regimentation of the crime an un-
limited theme of action, the individual
who committed them was not only cov-
ered by the regime itself, but-was spurred
on by the discipline and the camaraderie
of these established corps of nazi crimin-
ality.

German youth was invited by these or-
ganizations to live an extraordinary ad-
venture. By the party and its massive
grip, dispensing mercy to itself with un-

limited power, nazi youth were asked to
carry out on the highest echelon of grand-
iose dreams — the national socialist Pan-
Germanism. ,

CHARACTER OF THE CRIMES

' But nevertheless, during these serene
sessions of this trial, extraordinary in
the history of the world, because of the
exceptional nature of the justice .which
your high Tribunal is asked to render
for the indicated nations, the German
people, and for the ‘whole-of humanity, a
few objections have arisen ‘in our minds.

It is our duty to explore all the aspects,
of this trial, even if it is still only .un-
conscious within us, for soon a pseudo-
patriotic propaganda may arise in Ger-
many, and even may echo in some of our
countries.

Yes, no nation is without _reproach in
its history, just as, no individual i is fault-
less in his life. Yes, every war in itself
generates iniquitous. ills, and entails al-
most necessarily individual and collective
crimes, -because it easily unleashes. in
man the evil passions which always slum-
ber there; .

But viewing the nazi German culprits,
‘we can €xamine'our conscience fearlessly ;
we find no common measure between
them and ourselves.

29

If this criminality was accidental; if
Germany had been forced into war; if
crimes had been committed only in the
excitement of combat, we might ques-
tion ourselves on the text of the Scrip-
tues. But the war was prepared and de-
liberated upon long in advance, and up
to the very last day it would have been
easy to avoid it without sacrificing any
of the legitimate interests of the German
people. And the atrocities were perpe-
trated during the war, not under the in-
fluence of a mad passion, or of a wartike
anger, or of an avenging resentment, but
as a result of cold calculation, of per-
fectly conscious methods, of a pre-exis-
ting doctrine.

--- Page 33 ---
After that gigantic struggle where two
ideologies, two conceptions of life were
at grips, in the name of the people whom
we represent here, and in the name of
the great human hope for which they
have so greatly suffered, so greatly
fought, we can without fear and with a
clean conscience arise as accusers of the
leaders of nazi Germany. se

NECESSITY OF PUNISHING CRIMES

As Mr. Justice Jackson said so. elo-
quently at the opening. of :this_ trial:
“Civilization could not. survive . if - these
crimes were to be committed again.” And
he added: “The true plaintiff in this court
is civilization.” :
‘Civilization requires from you after this
unleashing of barbarism, a verdict which
will also be a sort of supreme warning
at the hour when humanity appears still
at times to enter the path of the organiza-
tion of peace only with apprehension and
hesitation.

If we wish that on the morrow of the
cataclysm of war, the sufferings of mar-
tyred countries, the sacrifices of victorious
nations and also the expiation of guilty
people, will engender a better humanity,
justice must strike those guilty of the
enterprise of barbarism from which we

have just. escaped. The reign of Justice is
the most. exact expression of the great
human hope. Your decision can mark a
decisive .stage in its difficult pursuit.

: "Phe ‘eminent international jurist and noble
European, Politis, in his posthumus book
entitied’ “International Ethics” reminds
usithat, as all ethical rules, those which
should: rule international relations will
never ‘be definitely established unless all
peoples succed in convincing themselves
once: and ‘for all that there is greater
profit to be gained through their obser-
vation than through their transgression.

That is why your judgment can con-
tribute to enlighten the German people
and all peoples.

Your decision must be inscribed as a
decisive act in the history of International
Law in order to prepare the establishment
of a true international society excluding
recourse to war and putting force per-
manently in the service of the justice of
nations; jf will be one of the foundations
of this peaceful new order to which na-
tions aspire on the morrow of this fright-
ful torment. The need for justice of the
martyred peoples will be satisfied and
their sufferings will not have been use-
less for the progress of mankind.

--- Page 34 ---
UNIT LOCATION

Station List

Military Government Elements

OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

Office of
Mil Govt for
Germany (U.S.) Berlin

Office of

Mil Govt (U.S. Zone) Frankfurt

Office ot Mil Govt
for Warttemberg-
Baden Stuttgart

Hq 1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Stuttgart
Hq & Sv Co 1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Stuttgart

Hq Cob
1st Mobile Maint Plat

Wirttemberg

E-1 Stuttgart
F-10 Stuttgart
F-11 Ulm

G-20 Aalen

G-21 Boblingen
G-22 Crailsheim
G-23 Esslingen
G-24 Gmin
G-25 Goppingen
G-26 Schwabisch Hall
G-27 Heidenheim
es Heilbronn
zs udwigebur,
G-30 Watblereon”
H-50 Backnang
H-52 Kanzelsau
H-53 Leonberg
H-54 Bad Mergentheim
H-55 Nartingen
H-56 Ohringen
H-58. Vaihingen

Landesbezirk North Baden

GE Durlach
E-? Karlsruhe
F-16 Mannheim
G-43 Heidelberg
G-46 Pforzheim
G-47 Karlsruhe
H-87 Bruchisal
H-89 Buchen

H-91 t berbischofsheim
-9 ‘auberbi
H-92 Sinsheim é

LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep)

(APO 154)

Warttemberg
SK Stuttgart
SK-LK
LK Aalen
LK Béblingen
LK Crailsheim
LK Esslingen
ee cue
Sppingen
LK Hall ee
LK Heidenheim
i Hanne
udwigsbur;
LK Waitin”
LK Backnang
LK Kanzelsau
LK Leonber,
LK Mergentheim
LK Nortingen
LK Ohringen
LK Vaihingen

Landesbezirk
North Baden
SK-LK Mannheim
SK-LK Heidelberg

SK-LK Pforzheim

K Karlsruhe

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay
Maj Gen C L Adcock

Col W W Dawson

Col W W Dawson
1st Lt J P Clifford
1st Lt N Oakes

Capt E Thompson

Lt Col P R Beckjord
Maj R H Stimson
Maj J Owen

Maj M_ Hoover
Capt W.A Becker
Maj T Taylor
Capt F A McDonald
1st Lt S R Combs
Maj J A Holbrook
Capt H A Wyatt
Maj B V Bloom
Maj M W Terry
1st Lt J Strauss
Maj 11 W Freeman
Capt B Panettiere
Capt W _L Strauss
Capt R S Deetz
Capt R Forrest
Maj S A Warren
1st Lt M Korson
Capt J G Cox

1st Lt H Oakes

Col C Lisle

Maj L L Lewis

Lt Col J I Taylor
1st Lt N Semaschko
Maj W T Neel

Maj E V Le Blanc
Maj J A McGuinness
Capt W J Melchers
1st Lt J Zecca

Capt H D Peterson

--- Page 35 ---
UNIT LOCATION

; OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Office of Mil Govt
for Land Greater Hesse
Wiesbaden

Hq 2d Mil Gvt Bn (Sep) | Wiesbaden
Hg Co 2d Mil Gvt Bn (Sep) Wiesbaden
Sv Co 2d Mil Gvt Ba ( By Oberursel
2D MG Med Gp

H-87 -US in Det Essen (Ruhr)
H-88 USLnDet Bad Ems (Saar)

Regierungsbezirk piesbaden

E-5 Wiesbaden’
E-6 Frankfurt
F-15 Wiesbaden
G-41 Wetzlar
H-77 Dillenburg
H-78 Gelnhausen
H-79 Hanau
H-80 Weilburg
H-81 Hofheim
H-83 Ridesheim
H-86 Bad. Homburg
Regierungsbezirk Kassel
E-4 Kassel
F-14 Kassel
G-38 Fritzlar
G-39 Marburg
G-40 Fulda
G-48 Korbach
H-65 Eschwege
H-67 Hersfeld
H-68 Hofgeismar
Regierungsbezirk Hessen
E-3 Darmstadt
F-12 Darmstadt
F-13 Offenbach
G-31 Bensheim
G-32 Bidingen
G-33 Dieburg
G-34 ‘Friedberg
G-35 Giessen
H-62 Lauterbach

LAND GREATER HESSE

2d Mil Govt-Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

Liaison
Liaison

RB Wiesbaden
SK Frankfurt

SK Wiesbaden
LK Wetzlar .. ,
LK Dillkreis &
LK Biedénképf
LK Gelnhausen &
LK Schlichtern
SK-LK Hanau
LK Limburg &
LK Oberlahn

LK Maintaunus
LK Rheingau &
LK Untertaunus
LK Usingen &
LK Obertaunus

RB Kassel « ~

SK-LK Kassel &

LK Melsungen !
LK eed & f

LK Ziege J

SK-LK iether ef

SK-LK Fulda & LK Hianfeld

LK Waldeck es LK’ Frankenberg
LK Eschwe;

LK Witze: easen

LK Hersfeld ‘&

LK Rotenburg

LK Hofgeismar &

Lk Wolfhagen: .:

RB Hessen

SK-LK Darmstadt &

LK Gross Gerau

SK-LK Offenbach p

LK Bergstrasse & LK Erbach
LK Bidingen

LK Dieburg

LK Friedberg

SK;LK. Giessen >

LK Lauterbach -& LK -Alsfeld

32

Col J R Newman

Col J R Newman
Capt HE York
Capt .B. Sturdevan:
Cat GE Six Ji
t Ska, rr
Maj W Condy

Col J R ‘Newman
Col Phelps

Maj M E Chotas
Maj M Baymor

Capt G Abood

, Capt W F Johnson,
“Maj T Turner Jr ‘~

Capt H L Edberg
Maj J C Nelson

Maj J G Gavin
Capt L R Jones

Lt Col A Skarry
Maj Sola

Capt G De: Nubla

Maj L S Williams .

Lt Col C F Busse

Capt H R Dichtenmuener

Maj A W More
Capt R.W. Godwin
Capt $ B Borda

Lt Col W R Swarm
Maj F R Mosgrove

Capt C H Carter

Maj A C Leggatt
Capt T A Norris

Capt JS Chapin

Maj R J Willard
Maj D M. Easterday
Capt H Nickelsberg -

--- Page 36 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Office of
Mil Govt for
Bavaria Munich

Hq 3d Mil Govt Munich
Hq Co Munich

Sv Co Munich

R & T Co Munich

3d MG Med Det Munich
3d MG Med Sec Munich

Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken

Co A Warzburg
E-202  =Warzburg
F-210 | Warzburg
G-220 Aschaffenburg
G-221 Schweinfurt
H-250 Bad Kissingen
H-251 Kitzingen
1-330 Alzenau
1-331 Briickenau
1-332 Ebern

1-333 Gemiinden
1-334 Gerolzhofen
1-335 Hammelburg
1-336 Hassfurt

1-337 Hofheim

1.399 Kenigahot
1-339 oni; fen
1-340 Lohr

1-341 Marktheidenfeld
1-342  Mellrichstadt
1-343 Miltenberg
1-344 Neustadt Saale
1-345  Obernburg
1-346 Ochsenfurt

LAND BAVARIA

3d Mil Govt Regt
(APO 403)

RB Mainfranken
SK-LK Warzburg
SK-LK Aschaffenburg
SK-LK Schweinfurt
LK Kissingen

LK Kitzingen

LK Alzenau

LK Brickenau

LK Ebern

LK Gemiinden

LK Gerolzhofen
LK Hammelsburg
LK Hassfurt

LK Hofheim

LK Karlstadt

LK Koénigshofen
LK Lohr

LK Marktheidenfeld
LK Mellrichstadt
LK Miltenberg

LK Neustadt a. d. Saale
LK Obernburg

LK Ochsenfurt

Regierungsbezirk Ober & Mitteliranken

Co B Ansbach
E-203 Ansbach
F-211 Narnberg
G-228 Ansbach
G-229—- Farth

H-261 Dinkelsbahl
H-262 _— Eichstadt
H-263 Feuchtwangen
H-264 Gunzenhausen
H-265 Hersbruck
H-266 _—_—Hilpoltstein
H-267 = Weissenburg
H-268 Rothenburg
H-269 Schwabach
H-270 _—Scheinfeld
H-271 Windsheim
H-272 — Lauf

H-273 Neustadt a. d. Aisch
GC Bamberg
G-222 Bamber
G-223 Bayreuth

RB Ober and Mittelfranken
SK-LK Narnberg
SK-LK Ansbach

SK-LK Firth

LK Dinkelsbahl

LK Eichstadt

LK Feuchtwangen

LK Gunzenhausen

LK Hersbruck

LK Hilpoltstein

LK Weissenburg

LK Rothenburg

LK Schwabach

LK Scheinfeld

LK Uffenheim

LK Lauf

LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch

SK-LK Bamber,
SK-LK Bayrew

33

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C C: Morgan
Capt J W Preston
Capt S V Lesnescki
2nd Lt W_T Lyons
Lt Col E R Jenney
Maj M J Kanner

Lt Col M E Henderson
Lt Col M E Hefiderson
Lt Col J B Bradford
Maj C M Emerick
Lt Col J B Thomson
Capt M A Potter
Capt J B Lynn

Capt K L Ellis

Maj H P Clark Jr
Capt R W Jones

1st Lt Coter

Capt J M Simon
Maj E G Emery
Capt J R Ellis Jr
Capt E F Smith
Capt W E Brayden
Capt L F Girolani
Capt Elmer E Kelly
Maj M B Voorhees
Lt L K Owens

Capt D J Huffman
Capt E F Warnke
Maj B H Logan
Capt H A Storm

Capt G N Hultzen
Col E M Haight

Lt Col C Klise

Lt Col W R Whitaker Jr
Maj J D Cofer

Lt Col J W Hall
Maj W T Stoats
1st Lt D J Smith
Maj H W Zurn
Maj H R Glaser
Maj H T Lund
Capt J J Carr

Maj R C Anderson
Maj R E Stringer
Maj H C Kauffmann
Maj E I Paul

Maj E N Humphrey
Maj F K Hinchey
1st Lt A E Leidy
Maj H L Woodall
Lt Col C J Reilly -

--- Page 37 ---
OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER
G-224 Erlangen LK Erlangen Lt Col F Robie
G-225 Coburg SK-LK Coburg Maj S Klein
G-226 Kronach LK Kronach Capt J F Begley
G-227 Hof SK-LK Hof Maj B P White
G-247 Lichtenfels LK Lichtenfels Lt Col J R Case
H-252 Ebermannstadt LK Ebermannstadt Capt J J Bianchi
H-253 Hochstadt LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch Maj R G Hanford
H-254 Kulmbach LK Kulmbach Lt Col PB Lamson
H-255 Pegnitz LK Pegnitz Maj M F Skinner
H-256 = Munchberg LK Munchberg Maj A C Abbott
H-258 Rehau LK Rehau Maj R H Dodds
H-259 Wunseidel LK Wunseidel Maj D H Alexander
H-260 Forcheim LK Forcheim Maj R J Nelson
1-347 Naila LK Naila 1st Lt W P Morris
1-348 Stadtsteinach LK Stadtsteinach

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern & Oberpfalz

Co D
E-204
F-212
G-230

G-244
H-274
H-275
H-276
H-277
H-278
H-279
1-349
1-350
1-351
1-352
1-353
1-354
1-355
1-356
1-357
1-358
G-243
G-245
G-246
H-301
H-302
H-303
H-304
H-305
H-306
H-307
H-308
H-309
H-310
1-375
1-377
1-378
1-379
1-380
1-381
1-382
1-383
1-385

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern
Munich
Munich
Munich

Co F

E-205
F-213
G-236

Regensburg
Regensburg
Regensburg
Weiden

Amberg

Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunburg
Eschenbach
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldminchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Passau
Landshut
Straubing
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsiburg
Wolfstein
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach
Kétzting
Mainburg
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
Wegscheid

Partenkirchen

RB Niederbayern & Oberpfalz
SK-LK Regensburg

SK Weiden &

LK Neustadt a. d. Wald
SK-LK Amberg

LK Cham

LK Burglengenfeld

LK Parsberg

LK Tirschenreuth

LK Neunburg vorm Wald
LK Eschenbach i. d. Opf.
LK Kemnath

LK Nabburg

LK Oberviechtach

LK Riedenberg

LK Vohenstrauss

LK Roding

LK Waldminchen

LK Beilngries

LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
LK Sulzbach-Rodenburg
SK-LK Passau

SK-LK Landshut

SK-LK Straubing

LK Deggendorf

LK Eggenfelden

LK Grafenau

LK Kelheim

LK Landau a. d. Isar
LK Pfarrkirchen

LK Regen

LK Vilshofen

LK Vilsiburg

LK Wolfstein

LK Bogen

LK Dingolfing

LK Griesbach

LK Koétzting

LK Mainburg

LK Mallersdorf

LK Rottenburg

LK Viechtach

LK Wegscheid

RB Oberbayern
SK-LK Munich
LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen

34

1st Lt H F Casademont

1st Lt H D Gross
Lt Col G D Hastings
Maj C G Doyle

Maj J C Robertson Jr
Maj J H Mattox
Capt D E Waugh
Capt E Fichter
Capt R E Boyd
Capt L R Mariels
Capt R G Miller

Capt G E Petersen

1st Lt E Slopak
Capt F N Shanbacker
Capt R A Berry

1st Lt T B Wofford
Capt F Traynhem
Capt C R Bucheit
1st Lt F Henry

1st Lt R W Crowley
1st Lt M W Doane
Capt A J Dann

Maj W Wickersham
Maj H J Mrachek
Maj H T Olsen
Capt Fitzpatrick

Maj T R Coykendall
1st Lt R McWhorter
Capt C T Hutson
1st Lt H Fueglein
Capt A V Di Giuni
Capt A R Sphar
Capt Cunningham
Capt J J Langer

Capt M J Jarvis
Capt A G Albert
Capt M O Smith

Capt A S Gallant
Capt J W Fleishman
Capt J L Stanley

Capt E M Martocci
1st Lt C G Dansey
Capt R E Dike

1st Lt A L Stone

--- Page 38 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

G-237 —_ Ingolstadt

G-238 = Munich

H-286 Firstenfeldbruck

H-287 _ Landsber,

H-288 = Pfaffenhofen

H-289 Starnberg

H-290 Weilheim

H-291 Wolfrdtshausen

1-362 Aichach

1-364  Schrobenhausen

1-367 Dachau

1-368  Schéngau

Co E Waseerburg,

G-231 Freising

G-232 Miesbach

G-233 Traunstein

G-234 — Altétting

G-235 Rosenheim

H-280 = Erding

H-281 Laufen

H-282 = Mahldorf

H-283 Wasserburg

H-284 Bad Télz

H-285 Aibling

H-311 Berchtesgaden

1-361 —_ Ebersberg
Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Co G Augsburg
E-206 Augsburg
F-214 Au sburg
G-239 ingen
G-240 Weinteborn
G-241 Sonthofen
G-242 Kempten
H-292 Donauwérth
H-293 — Giinzber,
H-294 Markt Oberdorf
H-295 Memmingen
H-296 = Mindelheim
H-297 Neuberg
H-298 — Nérdlingen
H-299 Fassen
H-300 Krumbach
1-369 Illertiseen
1-370 Kaufbeuren
1-372 Wertingen
1-373 ‘Friedberg
1-374 Schwabmiinchen

Office of
Mil Govt
U.S. Sector
rlin) Berlin

Office of Mil Govt
(Bremen Port Command) Bremen

Office of Mil Govt

for Bremen Bremen
Office of Mil Govt
for Weserminde Wesermiinde

SK-LK Ingolstadt
LK Muni

LK Firstenfeldbriick
LK Landsberg

LK Pfaffenhofen
LK Starnberg

LK Weilheim

LK Wolfratshausen
LK Aichach

LK Schrobenhausen
LK Dachau

LK Schéngau

LK Freisin,

LK Miesba

LK Traunstein
LK Altatting
SK-LK Rosenheim
LK Erding

LK Laufen

LK Mahldorf

LK Wasserburg
LK Télz

LK Aibling

LK Berchtesgaden
LK Ebersberg

Hed pores

s Augsbur;
LK Dillin, eb u
LK Neu

LK Sonthofen
SK-LK Kempten
LK Donauwérth
LK Ginzber,

LK Markt Oberdorf
LK Memmingen
LK Mindelhetin

LK Neuberg a. d. Donau
LK Nérdlingen

LK Fiseen

LK Krumbach

LK Illertissen

LK Kaufbeuren

LK Wertin,

LK Friedberg

LK Schwabminchen

U.S. SECTOR, BERLIN DISTRICT

U.S. Sector, Berlin District
(APO 755)

BREMEN PORT COMAND
(APO 751)

Bremen Port Command
SK Bremen

SK Wesermiinde

35

Maj L H Norins
Maj M T Manvence
Capt J J McBride
Capt M L Matt
Capt J E Thayer
Maj M W Nitz
Capt R_J O'Dowd
Maj P L Steers
Capt LR Da
1st Lt R C Wig;
Capt VA Bue
Maj C A Rein
Capt D E Brown
Maj E Boney
Col J Kelly
cJ Bischoff
R _L Montague
a A Necel
C Brown
‘ut D ha Price
t Forys
Pht AL Klinger
t V Thom
E J Newmeyer
t W Caruso
Pit c

Lt

Maj
Maj
Cap’

Maj
1st
Cay
1st
Cap’
Mai
Cap
1st C Smith Jr

Capt O Meirh

Lt Col CM Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Maj Darragh

Capt J M Latimer
Maj J E Rhea

Capt B M Ziegler
Capt L A Proper
Capt M Glossop
Capt B M Green

Lt Col R F Wagner
Maj E C Bunker
Capt H E Reeves
Capt S H Brown
Capt S D Lubin
Cant C E Witney
Capt F.E Kettunen
Lett Lt R E Lee
Capt Woodward
Capt L Sims

R
Js

tL Ss .
Capt L E Smith Jr

Col F L Howley

Lt Col C H Scott
Lt Col J M Shamel

Lt Col L S Diggs

--- Page 39 ---
