--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---
UNITED STATES ZONE, GERMANY
Greater Hesse, Wiirttemberg-Baden

MOFGEIS -
mar
& Jay
ra KASSEL
2 SwitZen-
. BRITISH ZONE / oo
* < 4 PHS ba
FRONKENBERG Fenrtta ne Beas
: a HOMBERG ve 3
acs SASS F noteweurs
DEN, ai 2\EGEN- —s}
S or eg MaRURG WAIN (MERSFELO
me a Fass
HUNFEL 0; Russtan

oper
) weet) ke
DoF i
7 cant
Coes
\

cana

. RHE INGAUSBADEN

FRENCH

~~
=
‘OHRINGE InoeNR can

me (Nene
wae c

wise cea
apenregeteys

AALEN
LEGEND Oe ihe
i omino
: i LEAN ny b
—— REGIERUNGSBEZIRYE AND ssi nyu “Aye e$
LANDESGEZIRK BADEN GOPPINGEN a
a sceka wagner ET
HEIs
——— LANDKREISE AND STADTKREISE a St i,

J ZONE

fs
{ 105 10 20 308050
j wiLes TaTISTICS SECTION

SOURCE OMG-R@! BRANCH Y GEN STAFF USFET

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT
FOR GERMANY, US
CONTROL OFFICE

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
CONTENTS

Official Instructions .

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY .
Germany Enters World Trade .

It Happened at Waldmuenchen .
Public Welfare .

GENERAL
US Constabulary .
Home Gardens .
Long Range Plan .
Here They Come .
Bringing Your Car Over? .

GERMANREACTIONS.
Toward a Unified Reich? .

PRESS COMMENTS.
Editorials

Columns
Radio

Station List

PAGE

0 ON WN

11
1
12
12
13
13

14
14

23

23

26

. 27

--- Page 7 ---
OFFICIAL LETTERS AND INSTRUCTIONS

Arrest and Detention — Germany .

Procurement in the US Zone of Occupation,
Germany

Amendment to Amendment No. 2 to SHAEF,
Military Government Technical Manual for
Labor Officers — Covering Wages, Hours, and
Labor Standards, 1 Nov 45 (Revised)

German Language Training .

Certificate of Compliance with Future Theater
Directives on Private Vehicles .

Opening of US Consulates .

Authorized Civil Postal Channels .

AG 250.3 GBI-AGO
20 March 1946

SOP No. 75, Part 1
21 March 1946

GEC 248
25 March 1946

AG 352 GCT-AGO
26 March 1946

- AG 451 GAP-AGO

28 March 1946

AG 091.112 GEC-AGO
28 March 1946

AG 311.1 GBI-AGO
29 March 1946

--- Page 8 ---
The world is eagerly awaiting Ger-
man cameras, optical equipment, toys,
musical instruments, fabrics, leather goods
and a host of other manufactured pro-
ducts that it used and enjoyed before the
days .of “You Can’t Do Business with
Hitler.’ Some of this demand is now
about to be met — as fast the Germans
can produce and MG can arrange to sell
products declared not essential to the
German economy.

The key to economic rehabilitation of
Europe lies in restoration of foreign
trade. It is even more essential for Ger-
many than for many other European coun-
tries because she has already become one
of the largest importers — particularly
from America — in post war Europe,
and requires the building up of exports
with which to balance the imports of
food and other living essentials.

Almost as soon as hostilities ceased
American wheat, and soon afterwards
American fertilizer and seed, began to
flow into Germany, all paid for out of
the United States Treasury. These were
not gifts to the German people; they re-
presented the bare essentials to stave
off utter economic chaos, and are all on
the books to be paid for by the Germans.

In international trade, goods .are not
,paid for in actual cash, but in other
goods. Debts are settled by exporting
tangible raw or. manufactured goods,

Since the fighting ceased Germany ‘has been im-
porting necessities required to stave off chaos. Now
plans are completed for her to export products which

will help balance the cost of imports.

or by the provision of services
such as those rendered to tourists.
Germany today is in no position to.pay
off with services, all her exports must
be in the form of goods.

It is essential that exports begin: to
come out of Germany in view. of the
policy established at Potsdam. The four
powers decided there that. the “First
Charge Principle” should be applied to
meeting Germany’s needs. This means
that the proceeds of German exports
shall be used to pay for essential imports
into the country. In this way it was
hoped to avoid building up large repara-
tion debts.

LAST YEAR'S SCENE

iWhen the war ended in May 1945 Ger-
many was inastate of complete economic
collapse with problems far greater than
those presented by ian ordinary conver-
sion from war to peace. Extensive damage
to factories and plants, low inventories
and scarcity or total absence of raw
materials, the complete disruption of high-
way, rail and water transportation and
the almost total cessation of coal produc-
tion had reduced economic activity practi-
cally to nil. What facilities could be put
to use were urgently needed to meet, in
part, the emergency requirements of other
war-torn countries. The elimination of
Nazis from key positions still further

--- Page 9 ---
Quantity a
Product (metric | aGiiar value

United States

Hops .......- 864 2,400,000
Czechoslovakia

Salt... 00. » . | 15,000 |’ — 72,000

Potash ...... 8,000 335,000
Belgium

Hops ......- 500 1,400,000

Silica filtration sand 156 _

TOTAL...... | 24,520 | 4,207,000°

* incomplete total

Fig. 1. This is only the beginning — arrangements
were completed in February for the export of these
products.
complicated industrial and transportation
activities. Outside Germany the Reichs-
mark was without value. Under these
conditions any thought of foreign trade

was out of the question.

Germany is still far from self-sustain-
ing today, and MG controls had to be
imposed on all foreign trade to prevent
the flight of capital from Germany as
as well as to insure that imports do not
exceed minimum needs in accordance with
Allied policy in regard to living stand-
ards, Plant removals for reparations and
general policies concerning industry level
with a view to eliminating German war
potential have important bearing on the
extent of available export products.

One of the first steps toward reestab-
lishing a German foreign trade was
taken last October when General Draper,
American representative to the Econ-
omics Directorate of the Allied Control
Authority and Director of the Economics
Division of OMGUS, toured the US Zone
and met with the German Land officials.
General Draper told the Germans that if
they wanted food imports they would
have to export other goods. The test was
to be whether food was needed more
than goods.

Shortly afterward lists of products
available for export began to flow from
the Laender to the MG Economics Divi-
sion Import-Export Branch. Today the
Branch has long lists of manufactured

articles of all sorts, and raw materials
from which other products can be fabri-
cated. All these products and materials
have been frozen for export and cannot
be used for domestic consumption. Most
of the items, however, are available
in job lots only, and do not represent
continuing sources of supply.

THE THREE BASIC “MUSTS"

Of the three basic requirements for
establishment of foreign trade in manu-
factured goods, two are internal and con-
cern volume of output: (1) Raw materials
and facility for their manufacture, and (2)
source of power to operate the manufac-
turing plants. In Germany the power
source is now almost exclusively coal.
The third necessity is the existence of jan

Product atic! eer
tons) value
United States
Hops ......... - -
Books .......-. a -
Belgium
Hops .....-... a -
Small arms ammunition . - 126,000
Czechoslovakia
Causticsoda. ..... 100.0 -
Dyestuffs and mordants . 0.8 a
Transparent paper .. . 2.0 -
Refrigerating gas. . . . 0.2 -
Bosch spare parts. . . . ~ a
Pit Locomotives ....| each -
Denmark
Hops ......-.. 50.0 140,000
Methyl chloride .... 5.0 =
Freon gas 9000 3.0 -
Pharmaceuticals, chemi-
cals, machine parts - 100,000
Netherlands
Sheet aluminum .... 15.0 -
United Kingdom
Lumber ........, 650,000(b)| 17,000,000)
Yugoslavia
Hops ......... - a
Carbon electrodes . . . = =
TOTAL.......-.. 176 (a) -
(a) incomplete total
(b) cubic meters

Fig. 2, Arrangements are being made (28 Feb 46) to
export these products.

--- Page 10 ---
exchange rate between the currencies of
the importing and exporting countries so
that the value and price of the goods can
be established. In Germany the first two
have been, until recently, substantially
lacking. The third still does not exist.

Because of the restrictions on travel
and eommunications by Germans it has
been necessary for MG itself to assume
the responsibility of carrying on all the
foreign trade. This system has produced
an inevitable bottleneck, even though the
Imports-Exports Branch within the
Economics Division has been greaty
enlarged and staffed with American and
German experts. As time goes on and
the restrictions are gradually liberalized
it is anticipated that direct contact be-
‘tween prospective buyers and sellers will
eliminate delays.

The absence of a foreign exchange rate
for the Reichsmark, however, has been
the biggest stumbling block in the esta-
blishment of trade. US policy, following
quadripartite decisions, permits sales of
goods from the American Zone only for
dollars. Barter or tying sales are not
allowed. Since the bulk of German im-
ports. since V-E Day have been from
America, i was considered expedient that
exports be geared in terms of reducing
this balance.

TWO-WAY TRADE BEGINS

Despite the internal and external dif-
ficulties foreign trade from the US Zone
of Germany has begun, though in a round-
about and, frankly, a step-gap manner.
During the month of February negotations
‘were completed for export of at least
4,207,000 dollars of goods from the Zone,
and transactions are mow in process for
many times that figure. Fig. 1 in-
dicates the commodities and the countries
with which the transactions were com-
pleted. Fig. 2 lists export transactions
from the Zone which are still pending.

MG has had to constitute itself sales-
man for German products from the US

Product ‘ete | ‘data
tonal value

United States

Cotton. ....... 10,000 _-
Czechoslovakia ~

Red cloverseeds ... 100 180,000

Coal and coke ... . | 15,000 113,000
Denmark

Vegetable seeds .. . _ 180,000

Field seeds ...... _ 364,000
Netherlands

Fieldpeas ...... 1,000 | 226,000

Vegetable seeds . . . _ 152,000
United Kingdom

Sugar beet seeds . . . 932 562,000

Vegetable seeds (b). . 400 bad

TOTAL ....... | 27.432 (a)| —

8 eee pal lease stacks in England

Fig.3.These imports will aid Germany to sustain herself

Zone. First it must find a buyer who has
the American dollars with which to pay.
The price in dollars is arrived at by re-
ference to what is considered a “fair
world price.” For example, in deciding
recently what price to charge the Czecho-
slovakian government for German potash,
a comparison was made and an average
taken of the price of potash in New York,
London, and Paris. Then MG tells the
German Land government to buy the
merchandise in question from the pro-
ducer or manufacturer. Payment by the
Land to the producer is in Reichsmark,
at the regular fixed price for the goods.
There is no fixed relation between the
dollar price for which the goods are sold
and German cost of production in Reich-
marks, It will be impossible to tell whe-
ther MG, as middleman, has made a
profit or suffered a loss until an exchange
rate between Reichmarks and dollars
is established.

Food and seed will continue for some
time to be the chief imports into the
Zone. Arrangements, however, have been
completed for the import of surplus Ame-
rican cotton which will be made into
textiles in Germany and then offered for
export. Fig. 3 indicates the type and

--- Page 11 ---
dollar > valaé “of “Zonal imports for

which negotiations were concluded during
February. Importation of 24,000 dollars
worth of raw film from Belgium for joint
American and British use in making news
reels in Germany has just been concluded
with funds: made available by our
Sitate Department. Iodine, insulin and sul-
phate pulp are also being considered as
possible imports.

For. tthe immediate future two natural
products are expected to bulk largest
in exports from the American Zone: Hops
and jtimber, with timber the largest in
volume and value. Negotiations for the
sale of lumber will implement the so-
called “Strike” program for cutting, al-
location and export of South German
timber. Great Britain is expected to take
up a large part of the available output
for the British housing and general re-
habilitation program. The “Strike” pro-
gram is planned ito. reduce available
lumber supplies in South Germany. for
tthe next fifty years, with a corresponding
curtailment of the German war potential.
These transactions require large scale
arrangements for timbering, sawing and
‘transportation, and will probably con-
jtinue through 1946 and longer. It should
be .emphasized, however, that not all of
the British needs will be met through this
source, nor will England be the sole

IT Happened at Waldmuenchen ......
An MG officer discovered that someone had
decorated his parked vehicle with swastikas.
He reported the incident to the local tactical
troop commander but lacking evidence there
was no way to learn who was responsible jor
the Nazi artwork.

The next morning the troop commander dis-
‘patched a mobile armored task force to the
town and proceeded to conduct a detailed
security check of all the town inhabitants. The
“town being once more covered by American
guns_and armor impressed the local population
with. the fact that the American Army has not
withdrawn from the area and that a military
occupation is still in force. The MG detach-
ment is of the opinion that the promptness and
efficiency. of the repercussions will militate
against similar future incidents in the locality.

ARE YOU BEING

Followed

Followed?
THE WIB tS EAGER TO FGLLOW YOU

WHEREVER YOU GO. BUT FIRST, YOU'VE

GOT TO TELL US WHERE YOU'VE GONE.
PLEASE REMEMBER ...

NOTIFY US PROMTLY OF
CHANGE OF ADDRESS

. »AND INCLUDE BOTH YOUR OLD AND
NEW ADDRESS WHEN YOU WRITE.

customer for timber from the US Zone.

Hops were one of Germany’s important
pre-war exports. Her main long-standing
customers, Belgium, Denmark, and. the
United States, are now first on the list
for tthe available production. Both hops
and timber, being raw materials requiring

no processing in which coal is consumed,

can be more readily available for export
than any manufactured products.

The dollar value of exports now equals
about one-tenth of the monthly prewar ex:
ports from the region which is now the
American Zone. Exportable goods are
such, only because it has been decided by
MG tthat the articles in question are not
essential to the German economy. As
production and. transportation become
more regularized it is anticipated that
the number and amount of exportable
goods. will also increase. ;

Germany was one of the most industri+
alized countries of Europe before the war.
The trend shown by present export negoti-
ations in the US Zone, which is prima-
rily not an industrial area, is in harmony
with the basic trade position of such
a country. There will be a growing ex-
port of finished articles from this Zone,
which, in turn, corresponds closely with
the needs of the liberated countries -of
Europe. :

--- Page 12 ---
PUBLIC WELFARE —

A WEIMAR SERVICE, NAZI 1 TOOL

The Nazis found a democratic public service, developed under the Republic.
They remoulded it to achieve complete domination of the individual public
charge and maximized its propaganda value.

Before they came to power the Nazis
professed great, scorn for the development
of public welfare services and sneered at
the Weimar “Welfare” State for foster-
ing them. Once in power, Nazi leaders
demonstrated the insincerity of this
criticism. In no other country, have
the possibilities for control through
the corrupt manipulation of the wel-
fare services been so well understood
by the political leadership and so ex-
ploited for the purpose of subverting a
people and maintaining control.

Many Germans still do not understand
this abuse of the welfare services, especi-
ally those operated by the Nazi Party,
and the dependent position in which it
placed them. They feel a sense of grati-
tude for “the many fine things” done by
the Party welfare agencies whatever else
they may condemn about the Nazi pro-
gram.

SERVICE ANTE-DATED — NAZIS

The Germans forget that the ground-
work for most of their public welfare
services had been established under the
Republic or earlier, largely because the
Nazis fully exploited the propaganda value
created by every expansion of such pro-
grams as the care of children and the
social insurances, 'Herr Goebbels acknowl-

edged the debt the party. owed to its.

use of welfare when he wrote in the
Berliner Lokal-Anzeiger on April 18,
1942, that the National Socialist Volks-
wohlfahrt (NSV, the most important of the
Nazi welfare organizations) was. estab-
lished: “to enlist important circles of the

German people who regarded National
Socialism very reservedly or with strong
mistrust. Hardly any other organization
helped in popularizing and creating con-
fidence in the National Socialist Move-
ment as the NSV.”

For reasons such as these the Party
found it desirable to provide many public
services through its agencies which in
other countries are made possible by an
increase in pay.

- The system inherited from the Répub-
lic -was applicable to the nation as a
whole, thus assuring minimum standards
for all citizens while permitting con+
siderable freedom and initiative by local
officials. It also allowed wide latitude
in the development of private welfare
services.

The Nazis were quick to recognize both
the necessity for welfare measures and
the greater possibility of believing and
retaining power if control of welfare pro-
grams was kept in the hands of the Party.
Welfare functions, in consequence, were
greatly expanded and expenditures: for
these purposes constituted a considerable
part of thé national budget. The welfare
programs touched intimately the lives of
almost every German and. therefore were:
rigidly controlled by the Party.

. WEIMAR POLICIES -

Under the Republic the National Gov-
ernment set the general policies govern-
ing public welfare and created a braad
framework wherein the states (Laender)
were ‘required to establish welfare pro-
grams for the state and. local. goyern-,

--- Page 13 ---
ments. The states determined the extent
of the services to be provided within
their jurisdiction in accordance with the
general provisions of the national laws.
They also: created the administrative
machinery necessary to perform these
services. Local governmental units below
the state and provincial levels were per-
mitted some freedom in determining the
administritive structure and scope of
their welfare services, a pattern not un-
like the development of these same ser-
vices in the United States. As a result,
public welfare structure varied consider-
ably at every level of government and
between different parts of the country,
although the essential features were the
same. The operational administrative
units for public welfare were at the
Kreis (county) level.

NAZI CHILD WELFARE

The Reich law of 1922 provided for the
establishment of a Reich Jugendamt
(Child Welfare Bureau) but, because of
the inflation, an emergency decree was
issued in 1924 which so modified the
original law that the Reich Jugendamt
was never established. However, a sec-
tion for Youth Welfare was maintained
at the Reich level in the Ministry of In-
terior which concerned itself primarily
with obtaining the cooperation of the
Landesjugendamter (State Child Welfare
Bureaus) in order to develop uniformity
in methods of child welfare throughout
the Reich.

Since the Reich Bureau of Child Wel-
fare was never. established, the chief of-
fice was created at the state level (Lan-
desdjugendamt). In Prussia, the main of-
fice was established in the Ministry of
Social Welfare and most provinces had a
Landesjugendamt. Other German states
had corresponding offices. The duties of
the Landesjugendamt were largely ad-
visory, but it performed the following
functions:

Determined the number and jurisdiction
of the local Jugendamter.

10

Attempted to create uniform standards
of care. /

Gave advisory service to the local of-
fices.

Cooperated in finding foster (boarding)
homes if not enough were available in
the local district.

Provided skilled: consultation services |
for correctional education activities of

,the Correctional Education Office is

sorgeerziehungsbehérde).

Made plans for a unified program of
delinquency prevention,

Granted permits for the adoption of
children, .

Generally speaking, however, the actual
services to children were rendered by the
local district agency (Kreis Jugendamt).
In its simplest form it was responsible
for:

Care of dependent orphan children and
supervision of children boarded out in
families,

Guardianship over all illegitimate chil-
dren as well as the supervision of orphan
children under private guardianship.

Care and training of neglected and de-
linquent children particularly through the
exercise of probationary supervision
(Schutzaufsicht) and by placing them un-
der the control of the Correctional Edu-
cation Office.

Care of neglected or endangered
children before the child became seriously
involved in delinquency.

ADMINISTRATIVE CHANGES

The sweeping changes were made in
the political and administrative structure
of Germany by the Nazi profoundly af-
fected the whole pattern of public wel-
fare. Local self-government was curtailed
and modifications were made in various
public welfare programs in conformity
with Nazi objectives. Since there was no
Reich Ministry of Social Welfare the ad-
ministration and supervision of all wel-
fare services were divided between the
Ministries of Interior and Labor. The

(Continued on page 26)

--- Page 14 ---
US CONSTABULARY

General

PREPARES FOR OCCUPATION DUTY

The army’s answer to the need for a
mobile, striking force in Germany is now
rapidly forming under the Headquarters
of the U. S. Constabulary.

With the inactivation of the Seventh
Army in March, the only remaining major
field command in Europe today is the
American Third Army of which the stream-
lined Constabulary is an integral part.

Maj. Gen. Ernest N. Harmon, veteran
combat commander of the 1st and 2nd
Armored Divisions and the XXII Corps,
will lead the specially trained and equip-
ped team of 38,000 officers and men in
its tough task of maintaining general
military and civil security.

To develop into the most mobile out-
fit in the US Army, the Constabulary
will employ light tanks, armored cars and
jeeps, motorcycles, horses and liaison-
type aircraft. Manning these vehicles and
performing the other varied missions will
be volunteers who desire clearly defined
occupational duties, bolstered by care-
fully screened reenforcements.

Demanding definite standards of phy-
sique, education and background, the Con-
stabulary will catch the finest caliber of
soldier available.

The nucleus of the new command is
based around famous combat units such
as Headquarters VI Corps, elements of
the ist and 4th Armored. Divisions, the
2nd, 4th, 6th, 11th, 14th Cavalry Groups
and Tank Destroyer and Anti-Aircraft
Artillery organizations. E

Until July 1 when the “Lightning Bolt”
—as the Constabulary is becoming known
throughout the Zone — swings into ac-

1

tion, its activity will consist of training
and organization. Because the unit’s task
will be the most’ delicately difficult any
command has had since the war’s end,
troopers will be trained in a way that
surpasses any previous military condi-
tioning program. The nature of assign-
ments makes it necessary that each troop-
er can function both individually and in
a team in the dual role of soldier and
special policeman.

Currently, classes of officers and men
are being graduated from the Constabu-
lary Instructors’ School in Sonthofen
Germany.

Already operating under special tables
of organization are the Constabulary
Headquarters in Bamberg and the three
brigades, and nine regiments, plus one
separate squadron employed as school
troops. :

When the specialized outfit is slated
to start functioning, it will tackle the
problem of border patrolling, “search and
seizure” operations, and zonal security
patrols. Augmenting local agencies
and the military police, it will work
hand-in-hand with Counter Intelligence
Corps, Criminal Investigation Division,
and the German civil police.

Men newly assigned have expressed a
high degree of confidence in the plans and
future of their soon to be high, fast mov-
ing. unit. They will be distinctively dress-
ed,’ on and off duty, in colorful but
practical uniforms.

Smooth-surfaced combat boots; the Sam
Browne leather belt — worn by enlisted
men in a new fashion; a serge, olive

--- Page 15 ---
drab blouse with matching trousers; hel-
met liners with insignia and colors for
duty and service cap with visor, off-duty,
and a golden scarf are expected to make
the Constabulary man the “sharpest dres-
sed” GI in the Army. ,
Except for medics and bandsmen, every
man who wears the Constabulary shoul-
der patch — a bright circular design of
a‘blue “C” pierced by a lightning streak
on a golden background — will be armed
with a-pistol as well as heavier weapons.
The motto of the crack corps, on which
the War Department is evidently relying so
heavily, is “Mobility, Vigilance, Justice.”

Home Gardens

As an important means of supplemen-
ting the food ration, home gardening pro-
grams are being strongly encouraged
in the US Zone, by OMGUS.

Regional Food and Agriculture branch-
es and German officials in each Land
were directed last November to stimulate
activities of subsistence gardeners federa-
tions to increase both the amount of acres
under cultivation and the number of people
with home gardens. A large number of
families, in some areas as many as 75
percent of all home gardeners, belong to
gardening associations. Some of these
organizations have been in existence for
many years while others have. only been
formed since the occupation.

The garden associations were required
to submit an estimate of the extent to
which they can increase their membership
and acreage under cultivation. Most or-
ganizations were optimistic in their pre-
dictions. The Munich Subsistence Garden-
ers Association expected to double both
its membership and acreage which, at the
time of its report, comprised 8,000 fam-
ilies and 600 acres. Since then, 1,800 new
gardens have already been arranged for
in .the-city of Munich. In Wuerttembergs,
the State Federation of Subsistence Gar-
deners. and Settlers with 67,000:members
hopes to attract 20,000 new families and
cultivate an additional 6,600 acres. All

12

of the town officials in Wuerttemberg
have been asked to make land available for
home gardens. In many communities the
land distribution was begun this winter.

The principal handicap is the shortage
of garden equipment and fertilizer. Spray
to combat plant diseases and canning
materials are also scarce. Seed require-
ments, however, have been largely met
through imports from European countries
and from the United States.

As a means of publicizing the home
garden programs and assisting new gar-
deners, with technical problems, most
newspapers will run garden columns. Re-
gular radio broadcasts are being planned
and several néw magazines devoted to
the problems of the home gardener have
been licensed.

Long Range Planning

A new line added to the 3,500 medical
items already stocked by the Bremer-
haven Medical Depot, was announced
by the Bremen Port Command. This is
composed of cribs, diapers, gowns, nip-
pled bottles, obstetrical equipment and all
other items need ‘for the pre- and post-
natal care of the wives of soldiers arri-
ving in the ET.

The Bremerhaven Medical Depot,
known as the “Medicine Cabinet” has ar-
riving each week for thousands of dollars
worth of medicines, drugs, and medical
equipment — from toothpicks to dental
chairs, from castor oil to penicillin and
including in the inventory, gold, silver,
platinum, and diamonds. These supplies,
which arrive by boat, are sent by air,
rail, and truck to US medical installa-
tions in six European nations.

Increased amounts and_ varieties of
medical supplies are being stored in stra-
tegic points throughout the American Oc-
cupation Zone so that the Medical Corps
will have weapons ready to combat
disease when dependents arrive. Other |
principle medical depots on the continent,
all of which receive their supplies from

--- Page 16 ---
the Bremerhaven unit, are located at
Furth and Wertheim, Germany, and
Mourmelon, France.

Bringing Your Car Over?

Before you complete planning for a
tour of Europe this summer in your pri-
vate automobile, you better read over the
certificate shown below, extracted from a
USFET Directive (AG 451 GAP-AGO 28
Mar), which will have to be signed
before your vehicle gets here.

“The undersigned certifies that he owns
(year and make of car) now located at
(city and state) and requests permission
to import such vehicle into the European
Theater. He understands that in the near
future theater directives will be issued
governing operation, supply and main-
tenance, compulsory financial responsibi-
lity, licensing and registration, civil and
criminal courts, and sales or transfers,
and similar matters with respect to pri-
vately owned vehicles in the theater. He
hereby agrees that he will, as a condition
of continued operation of this vehicle,
abide by all such directives to be issued
_ in the future, and that pending issuance
of directives specifially permitting trans-
fer of vehicles in the theater he will not
sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of this
vehicle in the theater after it leaves the
port of embarkation for shipment to the
European Theater,

“He further understands that the grant-
ing of permission to import this vehicle
does not obligate the US Government in
any way for responsibility in connection
with the movement, supply, maintenance
or liabilities resulting from the operation
of this vehicle.”

If you’ve indicated on the application
for dependent’s transportation that you
desired transportation for your car you
will have to sign this certificate imme-
diately. In the event that you stated on
Form A to USFET Circular 17 that you
did not desire transportation for your
car, you may make application for such
transportation in the future. However, only
those actually owning avehicle can apply.

Here They Come

The Office of the Theater Chief of
Transportation announced the first boat-
load of dependents will arrive at Bremer-
haven on April 28, with the second group
to follow four days later.

The first ship to arrive will be the
Thomas H. Barry, carrying approximat-
ely 525 dependents, and second will be
the Henry Gibbons with 450. In addition,
a limited number of automobiles will be
transported aboard both vessels, as well
as a considerable amount of household
goods.

Plans call for the GI families to entrain
for various parts of Germany within a
day after their arrival at Bremerhaven,
It is hoped that sleeping cars will be
available for all persons taking a long
trip. However, emergency housing in Bre-
merhaven has been set up so that depen-
dents will have a place to stop over in
case of delayed train schedules or some
other unforseen obstacle. An apartment
accomodating 500 persons has been
renovated for this purpose,

Two weeks prior to the ships’ arrivals,
the Office of the Theater Chief of Trans-
portation will be provided acomplete pas-
senger list and a list of addresses of mili-
tary personnel whom dependents will visit.

13

--- Page 17 ---
German Reactions

- SS ION
ee

Toward a Unified Reich? ie

German Leaders Discuss Pros and Cons of Federalism, Separatism,
Provincial Cultaral Autonomy, Planned Economy, and Centralization.

The political and economic organization Prussia, split up and shorn of its pow-
of Germany is due-to enter the limelight ers, as the leading German state. The
of public discussion as the date suggested initiation of a monarchist movement in
by General Clay for Zonal boundary elimi- Bavaria provides the additional compli-
mation approaches, So far there has not cation of the possibility of a single
been wide public interest in these prob- kingdom in a league composed of other-
lems, although the political parties, church wise democratic and republican provin-
organizations, and newspapers appear ces. Local patriotism has received an im-
now to have taken their stands and are petus in Wuerttemberg-Baden as a result
preparing to push, their various views. of the division of these provinces in the

As a sharp reaction to the Nazi policy French and American Zones.

of continuing the historical centralization
of power in the Reich administration and

LEFTISTS FAVOR CENTRAL POWER

in the hope of placing the blame for Ger- The question of federalism and separa-
many’s misdeeds on Prussia, people in tism involves differences in party points
the various Laender are expressing their of view. In general the KPD favors strong
desire to break away from so-called Prus- central power. Leaders of this party,
sian domination. In addition, in the west- however, support a federalist system with
ern zones, there is fear, especially in con- considerable autonomy for the individual
servative circles, that centralized admini- Laender in areas where separatist and
stration of the nation might mean the particularist sentiment is not strong, as
extension of the nationalizations and of in Greater Hesse. The SPD, too, favors
the land reform already carried out in the a federalist system in which the central
Russian Zone. government would have considerable
economic power. Generally, the conser-

LOCAL PATRIOTISM STRONG ’ vative parties more strongly urge wide

autonomy for the individual Laender.
Some industrialists, however, and rightist
leaders, even surpass the KPD in enthu-
siasm for strong centralist control.

The religious differences between
north and south Germany, always an
important factor in the Rhein-Main
sentiment for separation from Prus-

sia, also plays an important role in this To investigate the attitudes of public
development. Among some Bavarians opinion leaders throughout the American
there is a desire to develop Bavarian Zone on these questions of the federal
autonomy within a league of German structure of Germany, interviews were

states since Bavaria might then replace conducted among more than fifty out-

14

--- Page 18 ---
standing public opinion leaders — includ-
ing Land cabinet ministers, municipal au-
thorities, party officials and intellectual
and ‘church leaders. In general it was
found that much of the apparent dis-
agreement among representatives of dif-
ferent parties and groups really lay in
the absence of a clear-cut definition of
the word federalism. The overwhelming
majority of the informants were in agree-
ment that the individual Laender should
have considerable cultural autonomy and
should perform local administrative
functions, and that the central govern-
ment should be in charge of foreign
affairs and economic, judicial, and execu-
tive matters.

ANTI - FEDERALISM

Almost all of the public opinion leaders
in Wuerttemberg-Baden stressed the ne-
cessity for cultural autonomy for the dif-
ferent provinces but urged centralized
control of economic, financial, political,
and sometimes educational affairs. Ul-
rich, a leader of the SPD, insisted upon
distinguishing between federalist, which
he considered tantamount to separatism,
and a federative nation providing for
the continued political unity of the
nation, which might be lost under the
guise of federalism.

Several of the respondents, however,
were fundamentally opposed to federal-
ism. Bernhardt, licensee of the Stutt-
garter Zeitung and leader of the Demo-
cratic Peoples Party, and Haspel and
Hoppe, President and Director of the
Daimler-Benz A.G., respectively, opposed
a federalist organization of Germany be-
cause they consider centralization nec-
cessary for the economic reconstruction
of the country. KPD leaders, Paul and
Ritter, were against federalism because
they consider it opposed to Communist
principles of centralized national econ-
omy.

Several of the informants discussed
the problems arising from the division of
the two provinces into the French and

15°

American Zones. KPD leader Ritter from

‘Mannheim tated that Baden had never

had a separatist movement like Bavaria’s,
Gustav. Frey, Minister of Economics of
the Land Cabinet, however, was dissatis-
fied with the Wuerttemberg- Baden
union. primarily because he believes Ba-
den is an adherent part of the old Kur-
pfalz, which consisted” of Baden, Pfalz
and the Saar, with which provinces Ba-
den has more in common. Professor An-
dreas, formerly of Heidelberg University,
on the other hand, hoped that the union
of. the two provinces would be continued
although he regretted their separation
from the French parts of these Laender.
A public accountant in Heidelberg con-
sidered the zonal boundaries dividing the
provinces economically unbearable.

Separatist sentiment in Greater Hesse
has never been as strong as that in the
Rhineland or Bavaria, nor has the local
patriotism equalled that in Baden or
Wuerttemberg partly because the present
amalgamated province of Greater Hesse
had long been broken abnormally into
three Laender whose boundaries made for
economic and administrative hardships.
Kurhessen and Hesse-Nassau, in fact, had
been assimilated into Prussia and had
lost their individuality. ;

In any event, there was general agree-
ment among leaders of all the main poli-
tical parties that there should be some
cultural autonomy for the different Laen-
der with centralized control of foreign
and economic affairs. Differences were
rather in interpretation of the meaning
of the word federalism and in particular
details.

CHRISTIAN PARTIES DISAGREE

Within the CDU, a party made up of
divergent groups united in their Christian
orientation and opposition to the leftists,
there were differences of opinion on the
question of national organization. Dr. Hil-
pert of the Frankfurt Chamber of Com-
merce favors a federalism like that of
the Weimar - Republic, with foreign

--- Page 19 ---
affairs, commerce and finance under
central control, education under the Laen-
der, and taxation carried on by both ad-
ministrations. Hilpert did believe, how-
ever, in granting less rather than more
powers to the central administration than
was the case under the Weimar Republic.
On the other hand, Knappstein, minis-
terial director in the Reconstruction Mi-
nistry of the provincial cabinet, and
Weingarth, director of the Farmers Coun-
cil, urge greater power to the central
government. They support economic and
political centralism and cultural fede-
ralism.

LIMITED LAND AUTONOMY

Although there were slight differences
of opinion among SPD leaders, they were
generally in favor of a strong central
administration which would allow only
limited autonomy of the Laender, Richter
Lof the Free German Trade Unions of
Frankfurt feared that a federal or-
ganization would lead to a revival of
nationalism. Venedey, Minister of Interior
in the Land cabinet, and Simon, one of
the editors of the Fuldaer Volkszeitung,
bath believe that a federalist system would
lead to unnecessary duplication, bureauc-
racy and confusion in administration.
Knothe, head of the party in Greater
Hesse, supports a federative, but not a
federal national organization, with the
Laender having less power than they
had had under the Weimar Republic.
Ulm, a licensee of the Wiesbadener Ku-
rier, would like to commence with a
federalist structure in which the central
administration would become increasingly
stronger. His ultimate aim is a United
States of Europe. In his opinion, economic
necessity will lead naturally. to an in-
crease of central authority. Professor Pol-
ligkeit, a non-party Frankfurt city coun-
cillor, expressed ideas similar to Ulm’s.

Two KPD leaders, Barth of Wiesbaden
and Labor Minister Muller, favored a
centralized Reich with cultural autonomy
for. the Laender. The former would in-

16

crease the power of the central govern-
ment over that of the Weimar regime;
the latter, however, thinks the Weimar
organization might provide a model for
the future. Both the SPD and KPD lead-
ers favored breaking up Prussia into
its component parts to decrease its in-
fluence.

Apel, one of the heads of the Liberal
Democratic Party, believes in a strong
central government controlling education
as well as other functions necessarily
belonging to a central administration. In
his opinion, even taxation should be con-
ducted solely by the central government,
which would give funds to the Laender
for local needs.

Several respondents in both Wuerttem-
berg-Baden and Greater Hesse suggested
that the national capital be moved from
Berlin to Frankfurt. Some of them stated
that Berlin was no longer centrally loca-
ted since Germany’s boundaries had been
withdrawn to the Oder. They feared the
Prussian and some admitted also, the
Russian, influence of the former capital.
To support their contention that Frank-
furt would be a better capital they poin-
ted to the democratic traditions of this
city ‘and its cultural importance for all
western and southwestern Germany.

On the other hand, two Heidelberg pro-
fessors and an SPD woman leader from
Heidelberg expressed strong opposition to
the transfer of the capital since they be-
lieved that Berlin is accepted by all Ger-
mans as the traditional capital, and since
it has more vitality than any other Ger-
man city. In the opinion of these people,
a change in the capital would encourage
separatist and particularist movements
and might lead to the breaking up of the
nation.

BAVARIAN OPINION DIVIDED

Bavarian separatist and chauvinist
sentiment is centered in the southern
part of the province, in old Bavaria. Na-
poleon formerly had a Greater Bavaria
which included. Franconia and Swabia.

--- Page 20 ---
These areas are not so completely Ca-
tholic and do not share wholeheartedly in
the pro-Bavarian patriotism of the older
part of the province. In fact there were
suggestions from some public opinion lead-
ers that Bavaria be broken up into its
component parts so that it might not
merely replace Prussia as the state
weilding hegemony in a federation of the
Geman Laender.

CSU URGES AUTONOMY

Several of the CSU leaders urged con-
siderable autonomy for Bavaria. The head
of the CSU in Aschaffenburg stated, for
example, that the most important point
to be considered in any discussion of
the national organization of Germany was
the preservation of the individuality of
Bavaria, Bavaria, he said, mustremain for
the Bavarians and must be administered
by Bavarians. A city official in Nurem-
berg urged an autonomist Bavaria that
could remain within the framework of
the Reich, which would supervise finan-
cial and communication affairs. A party
leader from Guenzburg (Swabia) desired
maximum independence for the Laender
with the central government assuming
only those financial functions necessary
for the welfare of the individual states.

Scharnagel, Oberbuergermeister of Mu-
nich, supported considerable autonomy
for the Laender since he believed that
federalism would lead to healthy com-
petition between the different states. In
his opinion, south Germany and Austria
had been the real seats of German cul-
ture, the north having produced only arms
and industry. He even considered finance
to be the problem of the Laender and not
of the Reich.

Josef Mueller, head of the CSU, ex-
pressed his agreement with Hoegner’s
idea of federalism, which would maintain
political and cultural autonomy for the
Laender and entrust financial, tax, legis-
lative, foreign affairs, and trade functions
to the central administration, He is satis-
fied with the present individual treatment

17

of south Germans which results from
the division into the four zones. c

CSU leaders in’ Augsburg (Swabia)
favored federalism but not because of
local patriotism. They considered that a
federalist system would be a_ check
on militarism and an aggressive foreign
policy as well as a bulwark against
totalitarianism to which they believe cen-
tralism in Germany inevitably leads. In
their opinion, too, weakening of the cen-
tral administration would eliminate
separatism by preventing Germans from
blaming the national government for their
difficulties and from seeking a way out
through ,separatism.

In order that Bavaria might not be pre-
dominant in a federated Germany, they
urge that it be split up into Bavaria,
Swabia and Franconia. These political
leaders suspected Hoegner’s brand of
federalism as actually being a cover for
Bavarian chauvinism, which aims at re-
placing Prussia as the leader in Germany.
It was obvious that the desire for fede-
ralism among some of the CSU leaders
was actually based on their hope ta
transfer the blame for the -war ta
Prussia.

SPD EMPHASIZES REICH UNITY

Several of the SPD leaders emphasized
their desire to preserve Reich unity and
to combat separatism. The editor of the
Schwaebische Landeszeitung (Augsburg,
Swabia), for example, supports federalism
but believes that all emphasis must be
put on Reich unity and not on division.
Like some of the CSU leaders from Augs-
burg, he urged splitting up Bavaria.
Although a party leader in Wurzburg
(Mainfranken) thought that the religious
differences between north and south Ger-
many could best be reconciled by a fede-
ralist organization allowing considerable
autonomy to the Laender, he feared that
separatist tendencies might develop under
federalism. y

--- Page 21 ---
An SPD official from Nuremberg
favored a centralized Germany in
which the national administration would
control economics and politics, the Laen-
der merely executing the national legis-
lation. The Regierungspraesident of Main-
franken was in agreement with this Nu-
remberg SPD leader and believed that
the step between Hoegner’s kind of fede-
ralism and separatism is not a great
one. Buergermeister Jaeger of Kitzingen
so strongly opposes federalism that under
his leadership the Kitzingen SPD voted
not to join the Land SPD in protest
against Hoegner’s federalist stand. In his
opinion, contemporary problems are so
great that only a strong central authority
can cope with them. The SPD leader in
Kempten, of a similar opinion, stated:
“LT have not given up the idea of aGerman
Reich. Federalism like that which Hoegner
advocates cannot serve us. I prefer strong
centralism to federalism in which powers
are divided.”

On the other hand, some SPD leaders
urged a return to Weimar federalism.
One stated that one of the causes of the
downfall of the republic had -been the
over-centralization of the Reich. SPD
leader Almer of Munich urged con-
siderable local autonomy to lead to con-
stantly increasing central control.

KPD leaders were of the general agree-
ment that a strong central government is
necessary. They were not opposed, how-
ever, to Laender autonomy in circum-
scribed fields, involving functions of pure-
ly local interest. They do not oppose
federalism as such, suggesting as exam-
ples of successful federalist nations the
USA, USSR, and Switzerland. A Nurem-
berg KPD leader accused the present sup-
porters of federalism of actually desiring
separatism but not yet daring to expose
their real aims. A leader from Guenzburg
considered the present “fad” for fede-
ralism an attempt to shift blame for
militarism and responsibility for the war
on Prussia, and a desire to isolate Ba-

18

varia from the more progressive north.
A KPD leader from Ansbach opposed
Hoegner’s federalism because he con-
sidered that the great influx of refugees
would destroy the individual character
of the different Laender. Stressing re-
gional differences would, in his opinion,
be discriminatory against these new arri-
vals. Goldhammer, KPD leader in Munich,
urges breakup of Prussia and a return
to the Weimar organization. In his
opinion, however, national rights deserve
more consideration than those af the
states,

A leader of the German Democratic
Party in Nuremberg was ambiguous as
to whether his party was in favor of
federalism: “We are neither federalists
nor centralists, desiring rather an eco-
nomic German unity in order to allow
for expansion of the Laender. The Laen-
der should have extraordinary broad pos-
sibility for self-administration up to the
point of foreign affairs.” A Munich lead-
er of the Democratic Union stated that
Germany is merely a geographic idea. In
his opinion, the central government should
control “the least possible number of
states. The Democratic Unionists are
separatists.”

MONARCHISTS FOR FEDERAL UNION

As was to be expected, monarchists
favored considerable autonomy within a
federal union. Freiherr von Redwitz
stated: “A federal union of the German
states is the only form which can be
justified historically and it is also the
only correct solution in the interest of
all parts of the former German Reich, and
at the same time the best guarantee for
a peaceful future development of Europe.”
He cited the Neue Zeitung as having
declared that a federation of German
states would be the precurser of a United
States of Europe. In addition, he referred
to a September 1945 proclamation of Gen-
eral Eisenhower announcing the establish-
ment of a federal system based upon a
union of individual German states. This

--- Page 22 ---
system, von Redwitz declared, corre-
sponds to the desire of the predominant
majority of Germans. Centralization un-
der Prussia led to the Hitler dictatorship,
according to von Redwitz. He declared
that federalism means local administrative
autonomy, local decision on the relation-
ship between the Land and the central
administration, reconstruction of Germany
from a local level, and the reduction of
Reich functions to a minimum. Prince
Albert of the old family of Thurn and
Taxis considers federalism necessary
since sharp loeal differences have re-
sulted from the different policies of the
occupation powers.

Members of the Catholic clergy inter-
viewed in Bavaria supported a federalism
which allowed for cultural autonomy un-
der a central administration. The Gen-
eral Vicar of the Wuerzburg diocese op-
posed centralization because he fears the
domination of big capital, heavy industry
and the large landowners of North Ger-
many. :

Dr. Pflaum of the Chamber of Industry
and Commerce of Nuremberg, like the
two industrialists of the Daimler-Benz
A.G. of Wuerttemberg-Baden, was of the
opinion that federalism is nothing more
than a slogan, since from an economic
standpoint, centralism is a necessity.

NATIONAL ECONOMIC PLANNING

The KPD leaders and most of the lead-
ers of the SPD favor centralized econ-
omic planning under a national adminis-
tration. The leftist leaders favoring
federalism allow for sufficient central
control to permit national economic plan-
ning. CDU and CSU leaders, as well as
the leaders of other centrist and rightist
parties, diagree as to the amount of
planned economy there should be and
often reject planned economy in principle.

In Wuerttemberg-Baden the Daimler-
Benz A.G. industrialists, who oppose
federalsm, stated that a national planned
economy will be impossible under fede-
talism. SPD leader Ulrich thought

19

planned economy possible in the “fede-
rative” kind of. organization which he
advocates. Informants opposing planned
economy but supporting federalism con-
sider planned economy impossible in the
type of national organization they ad-
vocated. All the Greater Hesse political °
leaders interviewed support, planned
economy with the exception of Dr.
Hilpert, a CDU leader and official of the
Frankfurt Chamber of Commerce, who
favors a “moderate” planned economy,
and Apel of the LPD, who rejects the
theory of a planned economy. Those
only be effectively carried out by the cen-
tral government.

ZONAL RECONSTRUCTION

CSU leader in Bavaria, Josef Mueller,
said that he did not know whether plan-
ned economy could be carried on in a
federalized Germany. Oberbuergermeister
Scharnagl of Munich believed that recon-
struction can be accomplished in the in-
dividual zones once inter-zonal trade is
begun. The Kempten CSU leader de-
clared: “We do not believe in planned
economy.” Ortloph, CSU leader in Re-
gensburg, however, favors planned eco-
nomy for the entire nation.

There were disagreements among the
Bavarian SPD leaders on _ planned
economy. A Kempten leader, in agree-
ment with the CSU leader of the same
town, stated: “We are against planned
economy. Monetary problems can be re:
gulated on a national basis.” In his
opinion, federalization need not conflict
with socialization, which can be accom-
plished just as well within the Laender
as within the entire nation. Esser, a lead-
er of the Regensburg SPD, on the other
hand, thought planned economy impos-
sible in a federalized nation and stated
that the greater the division of authority
the worse will be the economic situation.
SPD leaders in Wurzburg and Nurem-
berg considered planned economy pos-
sible under federalism. Almer of Munich
thought planned economy impossible in

--- Page 23 ---
any event until reconstruction is com-
pleted, at which time planned economy
must be effected on a national scale.

Landratt Schmidt, a KPD leader
Kempten, said that planned economy is
possible in a federalized Soviet Union
and could therefore also be possible in
Germany. It must, however, be accom-
plished under the central government.
Hammersbach, a leader of the German
Democratic Party in Nuremberg, said that
planned economy could be accepted as a
temporary measure under the central gov-
ernmenit but that it must be replaced
later by free enterprise.

The Sttadtpfarrer of Nuremberg did not
believe that the question of planned
economy was an important one since, in
his opinion, it does not fit into “our tra-
dition.” The General Vicar of Wurz-
burg stated that the small size of the
KPD precludes the possibility of planned
‘economy. On the other hand, the Prot-
estant Deacon of Niederbayern and part
of tthe Oberpfalz thought that leftists
would be content with working at Land
level before tackling the national econ-
omy.

PUBLIC ATTITUDES ON FEDERALISM

in

The precise form which a national ad-'

ministration should take is not a question
with which the average man ordinarily
concerns himself. Such problems are
primarily determined by sophisticated po-
litical leaders and articulate interest or
pressure groups who stand to benefit or
lose by the decision. Nevertheless, in
‘certain disruptive historical situations as
the present when an entirely new State
has to be constructed, the interest of the
public may be aroused. ,

At present in Germany, despite the
discussions of the problem by political
leaders, it can hardly be said that

public interest in the question has
been aroused to any appreciable ex-
tent. The knowledge that all such

decisions will be made by the im-

20

mediate occupying authority and even-
tually by the four occupying powers
reduces public interest. Nevertheless, cer-
tain well-defined trends in public senti-
ment do exist. These sentiments may
emerge as stronger political forces if
cultivated and exploited by German po-
litical leaders or if Military Government
indicated that public sentiment will be
allowed to influence the decision that
is to be taken.

NAZIS DISCREDITED CENTRALIZATION

Public sentiment today in Germany about
the form of zonal and national administra-
tion, is influenced by the experiences
‘during the Nazi regime, when the Ger-
mans had the most highly centralized gov-
ernment in their history. In the popular
mind, the oppressive features of a to-
talitarian state have become identified
with a strongly centralized regime. Finally,
as the virulent form of nationalism em-
bodied in the Nazi regime became pro-
gressively discredited, people who earlier
had derived emotional satisfaction and
strength from the strong Reich symbol
returned to traditional, older, more con-
servative regional attachments. In addi-
tion, there is the widespread conscious
or unconscious desire to dissociate one-
self and one’s region from the Reich, past
and future, in order to avoid blame for
its sins and to obtain better treatment
from the occupying power.

' Despite the bases for rejection of a
highly centralized form of government,
there remains among the German public
considerable appreciation of the econo-
mic advantages of a central authority.
Based on the achievements of the Nazis
this appreciation has probably been en-
hanced by the stagnation of economic life
after the defeat and occupation.

A recent ICD Surveys Unit poll of
public opinion in the American Zone in-
dicated that these two conflicting senti-
ments regarding the desirability of a
strong central authority exist side by

--- Page 24 ---
side, though for the time’ being -publie
interest in the question is not keen.
When asked, for instance, whether
they ‘had heard ‘any talk. ‘about the
future administration of the American
Zone, only about one in every four per-
sons responded affirmatively and practi-
cally all of these referred to the greater
authority given by MG to German ad-
ministrations rather than to the question
of centralism, federalism or separatism.

ANTI-CENTRALIST TENDENCIES

Respondents were asked to express a
preference for one of three forms of
government which were listed. About
half the sample population chose either

a federalist system or a loose con--

federacy. Only about a fifth of the group
desired a strong central government (such
as existed under the Nazis).

To the question “Which of the follow-
ing systems do you think is best?” the
answers were:

A strong central government that
rules the American Zone from Berlin

A central government in Berlin which
leaves a considerable amount of re-
sponsibility to the Laender

The .Laender in the American Zone
would form a confederation, without
a central authority, in which each
Land would rule itself

No answer, no opinion

18 4%

26%

23%
330

se

The principal reason given for pre-
ferring a strong central government was
that Germany needed strong rule, unity
and efficiency. Preference for a federal
form of government, providing for a di-
vision of power between the central gov-
ernment and the Laender, was supported
by statements about improvement of.the
economic | situation through trade and
‘about the aid in rebuilding which a: cen-
‘tral agency would give. A loose con-
federacy was held best because “the se-
parate Laender know their own needs
and interests best.”

24

«The sentiment for sSepdratisny ih Ba-
varia .etherged very strongly on another
question: “Would you approve that Ba-
varia be separated from the Reich and
become an independent State?” As many
as 47 percent of the Bavarians polled voted
in favor ofthis move while only 37 percent
of them opposed it. People in the other
Laender, however, showed little disposi-
tion to approve the separation of Bavaria
from the Reich. Only 2 percent of the
persons in the Baden-Wuerttemberg and
8 percent of the Hessians approved this
suggestion.

It is significant that ‘sentiment © for
separatism was as widespread among
Bavarian Social Democrats as among
Bavarian Christian Socialists. Clearly,
separatist sentiments cut across these
party jines in Bavaria.

CATHOLICISM AND SEPARATISM

Religious, groups also expressed pro-
nounced differences on ithe question of
a séparate Bavaria. but here, too, ‘the
differences. were compaitible with sec-
tional differences, A plurality of all Cath-
olics (48 percent) but only 13 percent of the
Protestants favored a separate Bavaria.
Bavaria is predominantly Catholic. Se-
paratist feelings are also relatively strong
among Catholics in the Rhineland. The
opposition of Catholic Germans to the
reconstitution of a strong central gov-
ernment emerged also on the previous
question. A loose confederacy was favored

-by 44 percent of the regular church-

going Catholics as against‘only 9 percent
of ‘the regular churchgéing Protestants.

The-desire for a strong central goyern-
ment was expressed more frequently by
young people (under 30 years of age)
than by older members of the population.
Younger people are not only more highly
nazified but do not have the attachment
to the old local States (Laender) that
the older generation does. The survey
showed jthat better-educated people op-

--- Page 25 ---
posed ithe establishment of a separate
Bavaria more frequently than the less
well-educated.

PRO-CENTRALIST TENDENCIES

Despite fear of another strong central
government, the public. grasps the eco-
nomic advantages of a central govern-
ment, according to this survey. A majority
of the sample population agreed that con-
ditions would be better if economic po-
licies were formulated by a central gov-
ernment rather than by the Laender.

“At present, economic policy is being
directed by the government of the various
Laender. Would it be better or worse
if these policies were formulated by a
central government?” They answered:

Better 54%
Worse 7%
All right as things are now 14%
No opinion 240%
No answer 1%

It is significant that even the majority
of Bavarians accepted this argument. The
basic motive behind Bavaria’s desire for
a strong local government and separatism
is to be found, therefore, in other di-
rections.

Considerable pro-centralist sentiment
was also registered on another question
covering the desirability of forming a
central government for the four zones.
Those who expressed an opinion on this
question voted about three to one in favor
of a central government,

“Do you think that a central govern-
ment for all four zones should be
fomed?” brought the following replies:

Yes . 59%
No 189
No opinion 23%

More Hessians (70 percent) favored a
central government for all four zones

than did residents of Baden-Wuerttem-
berg (58 percent) or Bavaria (54 percent).
But here again it may be noted that
although the greatest weight of disap-
proval (25 percent) was found among
Bavarians, a majority in all three Laen-
der, including Bavaria, favored the idea.

BERLIN WANTS UNIFICATION

The desire for a unified centralized
government for the four zones was de-
finitely more widespread among Berliners
than among the American Zone public.
This finding is based on a mid-February
survey of public opinion by. the Surveys
Section of the Information Services
Control Section (Berlin Military District).
Questions similar to those employed in
the American Zone survey were asked
in. Berlin and the results offer a rough
basis of comparison with public opinion
in the American Zone.

Roughly 80 percent of the Berliners as
against 60 percent of the people of the
American Zone thought that a single
central government should be formed for
all Germany. An even greater difference
in attitude between the two groups was
displayed on the question of a centralized
versus a, federal form of government.
Eighty percent of the Berliners but only’
about 20 percent of the Zone desired a
centralized government which operated
directly from Berlin. On the other hand,
abaut half the American Zone public
wanted a federative or confederative form
of government as against only 15 percent
of the Berliners, Although a bare majority
of the Zone public fe't that economic policy
would be better directed by a central
government; this belief was practically
unanimous (90 percent) among Berliners.

It is apparent, therefore, that the Ber-

‘liners retain a strong desire to reestablish

themselves and their city as the hub of
a centralized Reich government.

--- Page 26 ---
(Dress Comments

(ally Mr
ea

PRESS APPROVES

BPG Tae QHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONTTOR

f
EE Oye New Pook Gimes =
ee

US AMBASSADOR TO MOSCOW

Washington Star: “.... Lieutenant
General Walter Bedell Smith has back-
ground and personal attributes .... that
should fit him well ... as American Am-
bassador to Moscow

. his characteristic
forthrightness' and
clarity of mind in ap-
proaching problems
involving both mili-
tary and political factors —.a combination
of qualifications likely to be most help-
ful in his dealings with the Russians.”

Philadelphia Bulletin: “Appointment..
will take to the Russians a man they al-
ready know and esteem... His contacts
with the Russians were ennai It is
apparent...Smith...will be a decided as-
set to us. The General’s assignment is
tough... few diplomats have had either
a larger task or a greater opportunity.”

Saint Louis Star-Times: “General Smith

-.close friend of Red Army Marshall
Gregory Zhukov. Soldiering may not be
the best training for diplomacy but per-
sonal friendship certainly is a good found-
ation on which to build friendship between
‘two nations.” ‘

Detroit Free-Press: “The choice .....
holds good promise for our future rela-
tions with Soviet Russia. General Smith

has toughness and great personal
charm. The qualities are needed in our
new diplomacy.”

New Haven Register: “General Smith
is highly thought of by the Russians. He
speaks a language they can understand.”

Richmond New Leader “There scarce--
ly could be a better choice. The fine quali-
ties of the retiring ambassador are
matched by... former chief-of-staff of the
American forces in Europe. Americans
may have both pride and assurance ....
they will be well represented in Moscow
by Bedell Smith.”

Saint Louis Globe Democrat: “General
Smith... able and dynamic... friend of the
Russian Marshall Zhukov, which will not °
hurt him at Moscow...he should give
this country able representation at a dif-
ficult post where a little more realism on
our part will help international relations.”

Providence Bulletin: “...a man of great
personal charm. He goes to a difficult
assignment but no more difficult than the
one he has thus far successfully met.”

Indianapolis Star: “General Smith’s as-
signment probably tops in importance any
diplomatic chore in the world...”

Christian Science Monitor: “Appoint-
ment...applauded. General Smith.......
demonstrated special qualifications for
the Moscow assignment.”

GERMAN EXPORTS

It has been predicted by Frederick
Winant, chief of the Trade and Commerce
Branch of the Office of Military Govern-
ment, says The New York Times that
German exports will be gradually re-
sumed “on a limited basis. The dollar pro-
ceéds... will be applied against imports
of those foods necessary to maintain a
health level adequate to prevent epidemic
conditions.”

--- Page 27 ---
VOLUNTEER FORCE

A Youngstown Vidicator editorial be-
lieves Representative Carl Vinson’s plan
for ia volunteer army of occupation is a
_good answer to the problem of policing
and democratizing Germany and Japan...
Combat training actually unfits troops for
occupation work...

QUESTIONABLE DUTY

- Result. of a recent poll conducted by.
the Army showing opposition by Ger-
mans to the indictment of the SS and SA
was -less irritating to the Boston Post
than the use of “American soldiers for
taking such polls. Maybe...nothing more
useful for them to do.: Such things cer-
tainly do not make out a good case for
keeping a large occupational force
abroad.” .

FRATERNIZING CRITICISED

From stories drifting back to’ the
US about American soldiers being fa-
vorably inclined toward the Germans,
says the ‘Salt Lake Telegram, “it sounds
as if the Germans are selling our soldiers
a bill of goods ... and the selling no
doubt, is heing carried on by the feminine
portion of the German nation, because,
reportedly, the fraternizing between sol-
diers and Germans is pretty well limited
to that sex. We’d better do something
about. this fraternizing.”

POLITICAL HAZARD

As long as Poles and Yugoslavs are
nurtured within the Army even though
they may be needed to supplement our
depleted forces, declares: the Minneapolis
Tribune they are “a great political haz-
ard. It ought to have been so understood
by the army... halted as soon-as...dis~
covered. If the army can demonstate that
it must have more men to do what is re-
quired of it in-Germany those men should,
be provided. Any inconvenience growing
out of that effort will be negligible in
comparison with the difficulties. which

24

might arise out of use of non-American
personnel considered hostile by our Al-
lies.”

SYMPATHY CAMPAIGN

The Kansas CityStar saysrumors now
circulating of hardships being endured to-
day by “poor Germans” reminds it that
a prominent German once said if Ger-
many lost the war, they “would simply
organize the sympathy of the world once
more — and wait for another chance.”
Competent observers agree, however, Ger-
many is not starving. On the strength of
this testimony, there is no cause for
lavishing any sympathy on the Germans,
especially when “we know what the Ger-
mans do with sympathy. They ‘organize’
it, in order to return to the attack.”

WASHINGTON BACKGROUND

“American civilian attached to US
Forces in Germany is complaining bit-
tterly in his mail about red tape which
is snarling Germany’s already over-load-
ed transportation sys-
stem. The civilian ...
must travel to Berlin
once a month for his
. tem. The civilian ....

do likewise, although
obtaining travel accommodations involves
almost endless bickering with authori-
ties, ”

“About 6,500 ‘unaccompanied’ children
from mations overrun by the Nazis have
been found in the French, American and
British occupation zones of Germany....
UNRRA, working with the army of oc-
cupation, is trying to work out methods
of finding and repatriating children who
ae ‘been absorbed into German homes.”

.United States may .be asked to
contsibute still larger quantities of food
for the German population in the new
proposal that zonal feeding of Germans
be abolished for a unified plan... The
German population in the American zone
is considered well fed, but the British:
decision to cut .rations emphasized the.

--- Page 28 ---
fact that a joint feeding progrém: is neces-
sary.”..

Educators.... disturbed over recent
reports on the attitude of GI in Europe
towards the Germans... Army orientation
courses appear to have been failures, one
reason perhaps being that reactionary
members of the House Military Affairs
Committee... objected to teaching troops
the facts of Fascism.”

Danton Walker: “A Congressional
committee going to Germany in April to
investigate charges of looting and black
market activities by United States per-
sonnel...formal declaration that the war
is over can be expected if, as and when
the current labor-management disputes
are settled.”

FIRMER ATTITUDE

Arresting ‘twelve prominent German
Communsits for showing disrespect for
the Allies and attempting to intimidate
German officials, reports the New York
Herald Tribune can be viewed as indicat-
‘ing “that American authorities are deter-
mined to stamp out all attempts to gain
power by intimidation or underground
methods, no matter what party is in-
volved.”

RATION CUT

Ration decreases for the civilian popu-
lation of Germany in the US Zone, says
the New York Herald Tribune, “threat-
en a further drastic dislocation of Ger-
man economy and challenge the military
government’s prestige. A major blunder..
(assuring) Germans... present ration lev-
els would be maintained. If the military
government is to avert famine next
winter, there must be a resumption of
food shipments in quantity from America,
or drastic steps must be taken to prevent
further overcrowding of the American
zone.”

DRAFT EXTENSION

-Colonel Oliver G. Harwood, Jr., chief
of the Army’s morale branch, is reported

25

by the New York Herald Tribune as
saying: “Congressional refusal to extend
the military draft would be a sharp blow
to the ‘already seriously low morale of
American troops in Germany.’”

MARRIAGE BAN

Adding to the Army’s statement that
American troops now and perhaps for
some time to come cannot marry Ger-
man women, Major General Bevans re-
minds suitors, says the New York Times,
that the Germans “are still our ene-
mies.”

REPARATIONS PLAN

Examination of a report prepared by
the economics directorate of the Allied
control authority dealing with the pay-
ment of reparations by Germany, runs
a New York Herald Tribune story, leads
to the conclusion that while German’s
industrial potential will be cut severely,
enough capacity will still be left to bal-
ance, in theory at least, exports against
imports needed to support a reduced
living standard. In any event “the plan...
does not reduce Germany to an agrarian
economy, as proposed in the Morgenthau
plan, but it does eliminate large parts
of the metallurgical, chemical and ma-
chine industries ...Germany will be left
with its present boundaries, including the
industrial Ruhr area.”

PRODUCTIVE UNION

The New York Herald Tribune. also
reports study by the British of a plan
“to establish a four power corparation to
run Germany’s Ruhr industries.” Anoth-
er clause in the plan is that “only those
industries which would be maintained
for the benefit of the general European
economy would be operated.” On this
same question, British Foreign Secretary
Ernest Bevin said recently “he favored
internationalizing the Ruhr, but that it
should not be administered by private
individuals. The Ruhr...should be the
productive union for Europe as a whole,
including Russia.”

--- Page 29 ---
CRITICAL SITUATION

As those in Berlin see it, says Henry
Gladstone of the MBS, “Germany must
receive an increased supply of
food or trouble can be expec-
ted. Lt. General Sir Bryan Ro-
bertson, Deputy British Gov-
ernor, admitted that about
10,000,000 Germans .... near
starvation rations now and that in the
next three months the situation will wor-
sen,”

ASSISTENT SECRETARY OF STATE

On a NBC program, John W. Vander-
cook says “President Truman ... has made
a momination ...almost certain to win uni-
versal approval. General John H. Hild-
ring...one of the ablest men in the na-
tional service chosen ... Assistant Secre-
tary of State.”

TRADE UNIONISM

After completing a survey of labor con-
ditions in Germany, reports David Wills
of the ABC an American Federation of
Labor representative says “that the re-
birth of trade unionism in the American
Zone is being strangled.”

MECHANICAL MARVEL

Recently developed by some German
scientists, announces Arthur Hale of the
MBS is a “machine which translates
speech directly into the typed word.....
the details are secret. American investi-
gators in Germany know all about it,
but they’re not talking yet.”

BERLIN COOPERATION
Joseph C. Harsch of the CBS says:
“We still seem to be able to cooperate
with the Russians, at least in Berlin, in
spite of difficulties in other places.”

(Continued from page 10)

Ministry of Interior was given super-
vision over all matters of general welfare,
youth welfare, migrants, refugees, mater-
nal and child health, family allowances,
confinement of anti-social persons, legal
definitions of welfare questions, protec-
tion of citizens against the misuse of
welfare funds, supervision of private wel-
fare, and institutional and social ques-
tions.

The Ministry of Labor was charged
with the care of veterans, their widows
and orphans, workers’ welfare, victims
of inflation, work relief, rehabilitation
of disabled civilians, distribution of
supplementary assistance to insurance
which included health, unemployment, old
age, invalidity and survivor’s insurance,
and workman’s compensation.

LOOKING TO THE FUTURE

It should be pointed out again that
these programs. were all carried over
from the Republic, although many were
greatly expanded, their character changed,

26

and administrative responsibility shifted
in many instances to Party welfare or-'
ganizations.

In the denazification program and the
reorganization of the public and private
welfare services, steps are being taken to
insure that in any restoration of German
welfare programs there is protection
against such future political manipulation.
Consideration must also be given to in-
sure that the quality of the service of-
fered does not suffer in the German mind
by comparison with that offered under
the Nazis.

Careful study of the program under
the Republic has shown that much of it
was in keeping with the present objec-
tives of Military Government and that
at this time it may be the most practical
guide to follow until the Germans them-
selves have had time to give thought to
the program which they may ultimatly
wish to develop, and until they can be
trusted to suggest improvements in keep-
ing with democratic ideals.

--- Page 30 ---
Station List

Military Government Elements

OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR

UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, US

Office of
Mil Gov for

Germany US Berlin Lt Gen Lucius D Clay

LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

Office of Mil Gov
for Wiarttemberg-
Baden Stuttgart Col W W Dawson
1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 154)
Hq 1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart Col W W Dawson
Hq & Sv Co 1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart 1st Lt J P Clifford
1st Mobile Maint Plat Capt E Thompson
Wirttemberg
E-1 Stuttgart Warttemberg Col W W Dawson
F-10 Stuttgart SK Stutt, Maj R H. Stimson
F-11 Ulm SK-LK Maj J Owen
G-20 Aalen LK Aalen Capt R Nation
G-21 Béblingen LK Béblingen Capt W A Becker
G-22 Crailsheim LK Crailsheim Maj T Taylor
G-23 Esslingen LK Esslingen Capt F A McDonald
G-24 Gmin LK. Gmii Lt L F Coon
G-25 Géppingen LK Géppingen Maj J A Holbrook
G-26 Schwibisch Hall LK Hall 1st Lt H Putman
G-27 Heidenheim LK Heidenheim Maj B V Bloom
G-28 Heilbronn LK Heilbronn. Maj MS Pullen
G-29 Ludwigsburg LK Ludwigsburg 1st Lt J Strauss
G-30 Waiblingen LK Waiblingen Capt LR Fisher
H-50 Backnang LK Backnang Capt B Panettiere
H-52 Kanzelsau LK Kanzelsau Capt W _L Strauss ~
H-53 Leonberg LK Leonber, Capt R S Deetz
H-54 Bad Mergentheim LK Mergentheim Capt R Forrest
H-55 Nartingen LK Nartingen Maj S A Warren
H-56 Ohringen LK Ohringen 1st Lt M Korson
H-58 Vaihingén LK Vaihingen Capt J G Cox
Landesbezirk North Baden
F-16 Mannheim SK-LK Mannheim Maj L L Lewis

G-43 Heidelberg
G-46 Pforzheim

SK-LK Heidelberg
SK-LK Pforzheim

Lt Col J I Taylor
1st Lt N Semaschko

G-47 Karlsruhe SK-LK Karlsruhe Maj W T Neel
H-87 Bruchsal- LK Bruchsal Maj E V LeBlanc
H-89 Buchen LK Buchen Maj J A McGinness
H-90 Moshach LK Mosbach Capt W J Melchers
H-91 Tauberbisehofsheina LK Tauberbischofsheim 1st Lt J Zecca
H-92 Sinsheim LK Sinsheim Capt H D Peterson

27

--- Page 31 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Office of Mil Gov:
for Land Greater Hesse
Wiesbaden

Hq 2d Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Wiesbaden

Hq Co 2d Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Wiesbaden

Sv Co 2d Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Oberursel
2d MG Med Sp
H-87 US Ln Det Essen (Ruhr)

H-88 | USLn Det Bad Ems (Saar)

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

E-5 Wiesbaden

E-6 Frankfurt

F-15 Wiesbaden

G-41 Wetzlar

H-77 Dillenburg

H-78 Gelnhausen

H-79 Hanau

H-80 Weilburg

H-81 Hofheim

H-83 Radesheim

H-86 Bad Homburg
Regierungsbezirk Kassel

E-4 Kassel

F-14 Kassel

G-38 Fritzlar

G-39 Marburg
G-40 Fulda
G-48 Korbach
H-65 Eschwege

H-67 Hersfeld
H-68 Hofgeismar

Regierungsbezirk Hessen

E-3 Darmstadt
F-12 Darmstadt

F-13 Offenbach
G-31 Bensheim
G-32 Bidingen
G-33 Dieburg
G-34 Friedberg
G-35 Giessen
H-62 Lauterbach
*Liaison

LAND GREATER HESSE

2d Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

Liaison
Liaison

RB Wiesbaden
SK Frankfurt
SK Wiesbaden
LK Wetzlar
LK Dillkreis &
*LK Biedenkopf
LK Gelnhausen &
*LK Schlichtern
SK-LK Hanau
*LK Limburg &
LK Oberlahn
LK Maintaunus
LK Rheingau &
*LK Untertaunus
“LK Usingen &
LK Obertaunus

RB Kassel
SK-LK Kassel &
*LK Melsungen
LK Fritzlar-Homburg &
*LK Ziegenhain
SK-LK Marburg .
SK-LK Fulda & *LK Hinfeld
LK Waldeck & *LK Frankenberg
LK Eschwege &
*LK Witzenhausen
LK Hersfeld &
*LK Rotenvurg
LK Hofgeismar &
*LK Wolfhagen

RB Hessen
SK-LK Darmstadt &
*LK Gross-Gerau
SK-LK Offenbach
LK Bergstrasse & *LK Erbach
LK Bidingen
LK Dieburg
LK Friedberg
SK-LK Giessen
LK Lauterbach & *LK Alsfeld

28

Col J R Newman

Col J R Newman
Capt HE York
Capt B Sturdevan
Maj B H Kean
Capt G E Skaggs
Maj W Condy

Col J R. Newman
Col Phelps

Maj M E Chotas
Maj M Baymor

Capt C A Bood

Capt W F Johnson
Maj. T Turner

Capt H L Edberg
Maj J C Nelson
Maj J G Gavin

Capt L R Jones

Lt Col A Skarry
Maj G C Sola

Capt G DeNubla

Maj Gish

Lt Col C F Russe

Capt H R Dichtenmueller

Maj A W Moore
Capt R W Godwin
Capt S B Borda

Lt Col W R Swarm

Maj F R Musgrove
Capt C H Carter
Maj LW Brown
Capt T A Norris
Capt J S Chapin

Maj R J Willard
Maj D M Easterday
Capt H Nickelsberg

--- Page 32 ---
OFFICE OF
UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

LAND BAVARIA

Office of
Mil Gov for
Bavaria Munich

3d Mil Gov Regt

(APO 170)
Hq 3d Mil Gov Regt Munich
Hq Co Munich
Sv Co Munich
3d MG Med Det Munich
Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken
CoA Wirzburg
E-202 Warzburg RB Mainfranken
F-210 Warzburg SK-LK Warzburg
G-220  Aschaffenburg SK-LK Aschaffenburg
G-221  Schweinfurt SK-LK Schweinfurt
H-250 _—_—_ Bad Kissingen LK Kissingen
H-251 _— Kitzingen LK Kitzingen
1-330 = Alzenau LK Alzenau
1-331 Brackenau LK Briickenau
1-332 Ebern LK Ebern
1-333 Gemiinden LK Gemiinden
1-334  Gerolzhofen LK Gerolzhofen
1-335 Hammelburg LK Hammelburg
1-336 Hassfurt LK Hassfurt
1-337 Hofheim LK Hofheim
1-338 Saree Kictoakte
1-339 Koni, fen ‘Snigshofen
1-340 Ton? LK Lohr
1-341 + Marktheidenfeld LK Marktheidenfeld
1-342 Mellrichstadt LK Mellrichstadt
1-343 Miltenberg LK Miltenberg
1-344 Neustadt Saale LK Neustadt a. d. Saale
1-345 Obernburg LK Obernburg
1-346  Ochsenfurt LK Ochsenfurt
Regierungsbezirk Ober & Mittelfranken
Co B Ansbach
E-203 Ansbach RB Ober and Mittelfranken
F-211 Narnberg SK-LK Narnberg
‘G-222 Bamber; SK-LK Bamber,
G-223 Bayreu SK-LK Bayreuth
G-224 —_ Erlangen LK Erlangen
G-225 Coburg SK-LK Coburg
G-226 Kronach LK Kronach
G-227 Hof SK-LK Hof
G-228 = Ansbach SK-LK Ansbach
G-229 Firth SK-LK Farth
‘G-247 Lichtenfels LK Lichtenfels
H-252 Ebermannstadt LK Ebermannstadt
H-253 Hochstadt LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
H-254 Kulmbach LK Kulmbach
H-255 —-Pegnitz LK Pegnitz
H-256 = Munchberg LK Munchberg
1H-258 Rehau LK Rehau
H-259 Wunseidel LK Wunseidel
H-260 Forcheim LK Forcheim
H-261 Dinkelsbahi LK Dinkelsbahl
H-262 Ejichstadt LK Eichstadt

29

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C C Morgan
Capt J W Preston
Capt S VLesneski
Lt Col E R Jenney

Maj J M Phillips
Maj J M Philipps
Capt Griffin

Maj C M Emerick
Maj G M Marsh
Capt M A Potter
Capt L A Mercadante
Capt A T Neumann
Maj H P Clark
Capt R W Jones
1st Lt J J Cotter
Capt J M Simon
Capt K L Ellis

Capt J R Ellis
Capt ME Riley
Capt W E Brayden
Capt L F Girelani
Capt E E Kelly
Maj M B Voorhees
Lt L K Owens
Capt D J Huffman
Capt E F Warnke
Capt J Bumic

Capt J R Cain

Col E M Haight

Col E M Haight

Lt Col. C Klise

Lt Col J R Case

Capt B F Stroup

Lt Col F Robie
Maj S Klein

Capt J F Begley
‘Capt L J Cochran

Lt Col W R Whitaker
Maj J _D Cofer

Maj F W Crimp

Maj R Y Boyer

Maj F K Hinchey
Lt Col P B Lamson
Capt F J Stamatis
Maj A _C Abbott
Capt W W Evans
Maj T Cleary
Maj R J Nielson
Capt J Wiatt

Capt R Cole

--- Page 33 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

H-263 = Feuchtwangen
H-264 Gunzenhausen
H-265 Hersbruck
H-266 _—Hilpoltstein
H-267  Weissenburg
H-268 Rothenburg
H-269 Schwabach
H-270 Scheinfeld
H-271 Windsheim
H-272 = Lauf

H-273 Neustadt a. d. Aisch
1-347 Naila

1-348 — Stadtsteinach

LK Feuchtwangen
LK Gunzenhausen
LK Hersbruck
LK Hilpoltstein
LK Weissenburg
LK Rothenburg
LK Schwabach
LK Scheinfeld
LK Uffenheim
LK Lauf

LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch
LK Naila

LK Stadtsteinach

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern & Oberpfalz

Co D Regensburg
E-204 Regensburg
F-212 Regensburg
G-230 Weiden

G-243 Passau
G-244 Amberg
G-245 Landshut
G-246 Straubing
H-274 Cham
H-275 _— Burglengenfeld
H-276 _—Parsberg
H-277 Tirschenreuth
H-278 Neunburg
H-279 — Eschenbach
H-301  Deggendorf
H-302 Eggenfelden
H-303 Grafenau
H-304 = Kelheim
H-305 Landau
H-306 Pfarrkirchen
H-307 Zweisel
H-308 _—-Vilshofen
H-309 _Vilsiburg
H-310 Wolfstein
1-349 Kemnath
1-350 Nabburg
1-351 Oberviechtach
1-352 Riedenberg
1-353 Vohenstrauss
1-354 Roding
1-355 Waldminchen
1-356 _ Beilngries
1-357 Neumarkt
1-358  Sulzbach-Rosenburg
1-375 Bogen
1-377 _ Dingolfing
1-378  Griesbach
1-379 = Kétzting
1-380 Mainburg
1-381 Mallersdorf
1-382 — Rottenburg
1-383 Viechtach
1-385 § Wegscheid

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Go E Munich
E-205 Munich
F-213 Munich
G-231 Freising

RB Niederbayern & Oberpfalz
SK-LK Regensburg

SK Weiden &

LK Neustadt a. d. Wald
SK-LK Passau

SK-LK Amberg

SK-LK Landshut

SK-LK Straubing

LK Cham

LK Burglengenfeld

LK Parsberg

LK Tirschenreuth

LK Neunburg vorm Wald
LK Eschenbach i. d. Opf.
LK Deggendorf

LK Eggenfelden

LK Grafenau

LK Kelheim

LK Landau a. d. Isar
LK Pfarrkirchen

LK Regen

LK Vilshofen

LK Vilsibur

LK Wolfstein

LK Kemnath

LK Nabburg

LK Oberviechtach -
LK Riedenberg

LK Vohenstrauss

LK Roding

LK Waldminchen

LK Beilngries

LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
LK Sulzbach-Rodenburg
LK Bogen

LK Dingolfing

LK Griesbach

LK Kétzting

LK Mainburg

LK Mallersdorf

LK Rottenburg

LK Viechtach

LK Wegscheid

RB Oberbayern
SK-LK Munieh
LK Freising

30

1st Lt D J Smith
Maj PW Zurn

Capt F Hill

Maj H T Lund

Capt J J Carr

Maj R C Anderson
Maj R E Stringer
Maj H C Kauffmann
Capt L C Wheeler
Maj E N Humphrey
Capt G B Jones

Capt W T Morris
Capt H F Casademont

Lt Col G D Hastings
Lt Col G D Hastings
Maj C G Doyle

Maj J C Robertson
Maj M Wickersham
Maj J H Mattox

ist Lt P T Little

Maj H T Olsen

Capt D E Waugh

Maj E Fichter

1st Lt P N Piccola
Capt L R Mariels
Capt R G Miller

Capt G E Peterson
Maj HL Snapp

Maj T BR B Coykendall
1st Lt R McWhorter
Capt G L Milner

1st Lt H Fueglein
Maj F T Brewster
Capt A R Sphar
Capt G W Cunningham
Capt J W Fleshman
Capt M J Jarvis
Capt R P Gates

Capt F N Shanbacker
Capt C H Smallwood
1st Lt T B Wofford
Capt F Trayham

Capt D K Nickerson
1st Lt F Henry

1st Lt R W Crowley
1st Lt M W Doane
Capt A J Dann

Capt A G Albert
Capt M O Smith

Capt A J Gallant

Lt J C Mitchell

Capt J C Stanley

Lt P A Nesbitt

1st Lt CG Dansby
Capt RE Pike

Ist Lt A L Stone

Lt Col J W Hensel
Lt Col J W Hensel
Lt Col E Keller
Maj E Boney

--- Page 34 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF °
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

G-232  — Miesbach
G-233.——- Traunstein
G-234 —Altdtting
G-235 Rosenheim
G-236 Partenkirchen
G-237 Ingolstadt
H-280 —_Erding

H-281 Laufen

H-282 Mahldorf
H-283 Wasserburg
H-284 = Bad _Talz
H-285 ~— Aibling

H-286 Farstenfeldbruck
4H-287 —_ Landsberg
H-288 Pfaffenhofen
H-289 — Starnberg
H-290 Weilheim
H-291 Wolfratshausen
H-311 Berchtesgaden

1-361 Ebersberg
1-362  Aichach

1-364 Schrobenhausen
1-367 Dachau

1-368  Schdngau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Co G Augsburg
E-206 Augsburg
F-214 — Augsburg
G-239 Dillinges
G-240  Weissenborn
G-241 Sonthofen
G-242 Kempten
H-292 Donauwérth
H-293 Ginzberg
H-294 Markt Oberdorf
H-295 Memmingen
H-296 = Mindelheim
H-297 Neuberg
H-298 = Nérdlingen
'H-299 Fissen
H-300 Krumbach
1-369 Illertissen
1-370 Kaufbeuren
1-372 Wertingen
1-373 Friedberg
1-374 Schwabminchen

Office of

Mil Gov

(US Sector

‘Berlin) Berlin

‘Office of Mil Gov
(Bremen Port Command) Bremen

Office of Mil Gov

for Bremen Bremen
Office of Mil Gov
for Weserminde Wesermiinde

LK Miesbach

LK Traunstein

LK Altatting
SK-LK Rosenheim
LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen
SK-LK Ingolstadt
LK Erding

LK Laufen

LK Mahldorf

LK Wasserburg
LK Talz

LK Aibling

LK Farstenfeldbrick
LK Landsberg

LK Pfaffenhofen
LK Starnberg

LK Weilheim

LK Wolfratshausen
LK Berchtesgaden
LK Ebersberg

LK Aichach

LK Schrobenhausen
LK Dachau

LK Schéngau

ie eee

-LK_ Augsbur,
LK Dillin, i
LK Neu Ulm

LK Sonthofen
SK-LK Kempten
LK Donauwérth
LK Ginzberg

LK Markt Oberdorf
LK Memmingen
LK Mindelheim

LK Neuberg a. d. Donau
LK Nérdlingen

LK Fassen

LK Krumbach

LK Illertissen

LK Kaufbeuren

LK Wertingen

LK Friedberg

LK Schwabminchen

‘

U.S. SECTOR, BERLIN DISTRICT

U.S. Sector, Berlin District
(APO 755)

BREMEN PORT COMAND
(APO '751)

Bremen Port Command
SK Bremen

SK Weserminde

31

Capt W P Lovett
Maj C H Bischoff
Capt Wardle
Capt R H Necel
Maj F L Tracy

May M H Nitz

Maj C A Brown
Capt N W Borring
Capt W M Forys
Capt A L Klinger
Capt Dickerson
Maj E J Newmeyer
Capt J J McBride
Capt M L Mott
Capt J E Thayer
Capt B B Simmons
Capt M J Groves
Maj P L Steers
Maj Mawrence
1st Lt Smith

1st Lt Thompson
Capt R C Wiggins
Maj.A G Snow

1st Lt Schwartz

Lt Col CM Avery
Lt Cot C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Maj S H Darragh
Capt J L Latimer
Maj J E Rhea

Lt Col RS Wagner
Capt F W Guzak
Capt M Glossop
Capt B M Green
1st Lt M W Tootser
Maj E C Bunker
Capt E D Schanck
Capt S H Brown
Capt S D Lybin
Capt C E Witney
Capt F E Kettuner
Capt D G Stevens
Capt J S Woodward
Capt D H Moran
1st Lt J W Kenne

Col F L Howley

Lt Col CH Scott
Lt Col J M Shamel

Lt Col L S Diggs

--- Page 35 ---
