--- Page 2 ---
NO. 33 — 16 MARCH 1946

Military Government

Weekly
Information Bulletin

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 3 ---
UNITED STATES ZONE, GERMANY

Greater Hesse, Wiirttemberg-Baden

Qwourhonnt |

Preert
in “< IC H fina
JRA 5) Seo USEN:

WALOECK

ee BRITISH ZONE

SCHWEGE
S FRANKENSERG feared aati 4
* ay i, NOMBERS .
e an focal § RoTENBURG
~
OMT Ses gimme

WAIN ( MERSFELD

RUSSIAN

ZONE

FRENCH

Se

See

LEGEND
—— ReGiERUNGSBEZIAYE AND 7
SSL ih ot Coon
LANDESBEZIRK BADEN GEN Y' ee
GOPPINGEN
a revline waneiaa fre
——— LANOKREISE AND STAD TKREISE é ary ele

Ww

Ds ZONE

if
{ 1 5 0 10 20 30 80
‘ wes eet ——" eres ——)

TATISTICS SECTION

SOURCE OMG-RA! GRANCH C GEN STAFF USFET

--- Page 4 ---
NO. 33 — 16 MARCH 1946

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT (U. S. ZONE)
UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER

REPORTS AND INFORMATION BRANCH

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
CONTENTS

Military Government Directives .

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Darmstadt: Test-Lab of German Opinion .

The Indictment Against Nazism .

GENERAL . . .
US Military Government Consolidates .
DP Care for Putative US Citizens .
Yugoslavian Repatriation .

Polish Repatriation

PW Mail Service . .

ETO Civilian Promotions .
Continental Wage Scale .

Army Use of Reichspost Facilities .
Securities of ‘Supplies in Transit .
Safeguarding Military Information .
Unit Fund Exchange . .

PXs Check Excess Purchases .
Correct APO Addresses .

The Dependents Are Coming to the ETO .

GERMAN REACTIONS
Letters To The Editor .

Restaurant Conversations

PRESS COMMENTS
Columns
Radio
Editorials Coe ee ee eS

Station List .

PAGE

15
15
16
16
16
16
16
7
17
7
17
18
18
18
18

20
20
21

23
23
24
24

27

--- Page 7 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT LETTERS AND
INSTRUCTIONS ISSUED RECENTLY

Release by US Forces of Non-Essential Telephone and Tele-
graph Facilities for Return to German Civil Authorities .

Addressing of Mail .

Safeguarding Military Information .

Displaced Persons Care for Alleged US Citizens .
Organization of Military Government in US Zone in Germany
Prisoners of War Mail .

Standard Operating Procedure No 52: Security of Supplies .
Control Council Law No. 18 — Housing Law .

Currency Exchange Control Unit Funds .

Continental Wage Scale .

AG 311 SIG-AGO
4 March 1946

AG 311.1 AGM
6 March 1946

AG 371.2 GBI-AGO
7 March 1946

AG 383.7 GEC-AGO
7 March 1946

GO 41
7 March 1946

AG 311.1 GAP-AGO
7 March 1946

8 March 1946

GEC-337 CONL
10 March 1946

AG 121 GAP-AGO
11 March 1946

AG 230 GAP-AGCP
11 March 1946

--- Page 8 ---
Hightights of Poticy

DARMSTADT:

TEST-LAB OF GERMAN OPINION

As the power of the nazis began to
crack and Allies victory became more
and more certain, the Supreme Head-
quarters of the Allied Forces, sought
factual insight to the psychological
problems which would have to be solved
by the occupation armies and military
governments, through answers to ques-
tions that had long been asked of the
German people under Hitler.

The effects of Hitler’s policy had been
to throw something of a prison about
the German population preventing them
from receiving information from the out-
side world and. preventing those outside
from getting a good look inside nazi
Germany. What had happened, SHAEF
wanted to know, to the German
mind and intelligence in the darkness
Hitler placed about it?

PROBE OF THE GERMAN MIND

Had the Germans, or any part of them,
managed to become even somewhat in-
formed through clandestine radio-listening
or in other furtive ways, to the truth be-
yond their borders? Had they followed
Goebbels’ line blindly, obediently? What
kind of people would we find? Would they
be eager for the truth? Would some of
them recognize it? Would there be some
who could possibly be used with trust
to assist in the task of teaching
democratic ideals and principles to the
others? How well or how badly were
they informed, anyway?

The job of digging into the German
mind was given to the Office of War
Information. On 1 July 1945, the survey
section of that organization had com-
pleted the second of its studies among
the people of several German cities. The
findings of this survey, as well as of
others that followed, were embodied in
secret reports, which are now being re-
vealed for the first time.

ANSWERS COME WILLINGLY

The report upon which the story is
based was compiled after the survey in
Darmstadt, a city with a normal
population of 85,000, and which, before
the rise of Hitler, held something of a
reputation for liberal thought.

The Germans talked. They answered
questions without hesitation and asked
more questions than the interviewers.
Many of them were extremily enthusias-
tic and seemed somewhat tipsy with
the sudden emergence from fear and
regimentation. But others were incredible,
and first wanted assurance that their
answers would not be used against them,
that this invitation to unburden them-
selves was not a trap that would open a
Belsen for them.

The first thing the interviewers wanted
to know was how well-informed these
people thought themselves about the
course of the war? Did they believe they
were getting the truth about it from
the nazi propaganda machine, from their
radio, newspapers, magazines?

--- Page 9 ---
If their answers were true, then Hitler
and Goebbels did not fool all their people
all the time, for a majority of the 215
interviewed said that they had not
felt accurately informed at all about the
course of the war. Some of them made
intelligent analysis: They didn’t feel well
informed because “our reports were con-
tradictory and didn’t correspond to re-
ports from foreign radio stations.”

This leads to an important point, nam-
ely, that death was the penalty for any
German caught listening to foreign broad-
casts. Did many Germans listen to radio
stations outside Germany despite this
threat? As far as the Darmstadt citizens
were concerned more than one-third of
the 215 said they had listened to Allied
or other foreign radio stations for their
information.

OPINIONS DIVIDED

The sneak radio listening was curiously
divided, too. More men above 40 listened
to the foreign broadcasts than others; and
among the women, those less than 40
said they tuned in almost every night to
stations other than German, while the
older women depended largely upon Ger-
man sources for their information. Listen-
ing to the Allied stations did not neces-
sarily mean that they always believed
what they heard, and some were frank
enough to admit it.

Then the interviewers asked:

“Where, in your opinion, did you get
your most reliable news?”

The answers were divided among three
sources, the foreign radio, people who
listened to that source and imparted what
they heard, and German sources only.
Almost 50 percent of the men over 40
believed the foreign radios offered the
most reliable news, and 41 percent of
the women under 40 thought the same,
while 39 percent of the women over
40 believed the German sources only.

London’s BBC was the most frequently
mentioned foreign station, but in the

several months preceding the nazi down-
fall the Luxembourg radio became very
popular. About three percent said they
had been consistent listeners to Mos-
cow and New York stations.

Did they fall for the nazi line almost
up to the last day — the line which
promised victory when the Wehrmacht

_ was meeting one disastrous defeat after

janother? Not one of the 215 said they
had always believed “implicitly” in ‘nazi
mews, and 52 percent of the men over
40 said they never believed them at all.
However, 13 percent of them said they
believed it all in the beginning, and for
a while thereafter, but too many “ob-
servable” discrepancies later shook their
faith.

What exactly “shook their faith?”

The chief reasons were that they would
hear that Germany was winning the war
when the evidence around them contra-
dicted it. First, there was North Africa:
That defeat was a blow to their faith.
Then came Stalingrad, which, most of
them said, gave the final wallop to their
beliefs, as well as to their hopes for
victory, despite the nazi promisés. Sta-
lingrad, as far as they were concerned,

_ was Germany’s Waiterloo. All else after

‘that was anti-climatic. And then came
D-Day. When tthe Americans landed in
France ithe Germans began recalling the
first World War. With the coming of
ithe Americans, they believed almost
superstitiously, the defeat of Germany
was not for away.

REASONS FOR DOUBTS

Other reasons given for not believing the
nazi reports were:

“I saw many troop movements back
and forth east to west. I got other news
from soldiers and foreign radio stations.
Toward the end we never listened to
our own stations.”

“They told us about victories when
defeat was already visible. Goering said
we'd have no air raids.”

--- Page 10 ---
“We were told of new weapons that
would turn the tide, but those weapons
had no effect.”

“At first we believed the reports, but
with continued retreats and reverses we
began to doubt.”

“After the defeat in Africa and the
defeat in Stalingrad, I didn’t believe any
more. Until then I did.”

SUSPICIOUS OF GOOD NEWS

After a while the Goebbels method of -

telling only what might have been good
news for the Germans created suspi-
cion. “We heard only the news that
was good for Germany and bad for the
Allies.” “Our casualties were always
small.” “Never did we hear of our own
losses. That was not natural.”

Some of those who had listened to
the Allied radio stations said: “The re-
ports were self-contradictory, and didn’t
correspond with the reports from foreign
stations.” ;

“Often I went to a sister who had a
radio and we always listened in great
secrecy. We compared our reports with
the Allied reports.”

And besides, the fact that they were
prohibited by decree from listening to
foreign radios made some suspicious.
Three of the most typical remarks
were: “We were forbidden to read
foreign newspapers and to listen to
foreign radios. From this I concluded
that our sources of information were
hiding war events from us.”

“The nazis did not want us to know
the truth or else they would not have for-
bidden the listening to the foreign radio.”

“We only heard one side of the story.
That is never enough.”

A question that resulted probably in
the best insight into their attitudes and
states of mind was: “Do you think that
you are fairly well informed about that
happened in the world since the outbreak
of the war?”

The answers came without hesitation.
By percentages, it went like this: 63

percent of the men over 40 felt they were
not well informed; 64 percent of women
over 40 thought the same, while 75 per-
cent of the women under 40 believed they
needed some enlightening. This question
brought a curious reaction, and was one
of several that prompted many questions.
They seemed hungry for what they
termed truthful information.

They appeared deeply interested in
what had been going on outside Ger-
many, and even inside Germany. They
wanted to know what we believed was
the truth about the war, its origins, the
events of fighting, how the end came
about, what had happened to the nazi
leaders in the last confusing weeks of the
war. Some of them also were deeply
curious of what going to happen to Ger-
many, what plans the Allies had for their
country, and how it would affect them
personally. Others wanted to know how
the war had affected other nations.

QUESTIONS ON PAST AND FUTURE

Twenty-nine percent wanted to know
about the origin of the war, events and
battles, the whole story of what had
happened in Germany; 15 percent wanted
to know about the future of Germany;
18 percent wanted to know about
conditions in other countries; and 19
percent displayed little interest one way
or another.

It must be noted that a number of
those questioned professed ignorance
about how the nazis came into power
and how the war started. This mental
condition was demonstarted by such re-
corded comments:

“We would like to know how the
nazis really went about their work. It
should be shown to us in films.”

“How were we deceived by the
nazis?” :

“Tell us about our relationship with
Russia at the beginning of the war.”

“Tell us the whole story of the origins
of the war.”

--- Page 11 ---
“T would like to know what the nazis
really thought.”

“J would like to know who started the
war. The truth about the nazis — that
is what I’d like to know.”

To some of them the events of the
‘war were, or seemed to be, a complete
_ mystery. These statements were also
recorded:

“I still don’t believe about Stalingrad.”

“I would like an accurate history of
the war in book form.”

“I would like some information on the
defeat in Russia.”

“Why did the Atlantic Wall not hold
out?”

“Why didn’t we invade England?”

“What really happened in England?
Did we bomb English cities as the Allies
bombed ours?”

“whether England suffered from
air-bombardment and V-weapons as much
as we have been told.”

Even the recent events in Germany
were a particular vacuum to many.

“What happened to our leaders?” one
asked.

“Did they actually die or what hap-
pened?”

“I would like to know the truth about
Hitler and what really happened to him.”

“What is going to happen to the
nazis?”

“Nothing was ever told us about the
concentration camps.”

‘Did the SS troops actually do all
the terrible things that are supposed to
have been done in Germany?”

“What happened to the thousands of
Jews deported from Germany?”

Some of them appeared to beg for the
truth — good or bad.

“T would like to get the full news,” one
said, “good or bad, whether it is for
or against Germany, as long as it is
the truth.”

“{ would like to hear the actual truth
concerning all the events.”

“There are so many questions in our

minds, we’d like to get the truth and
be confident that it was.”

The future of Germany caused a great
deal of anxiety as manifest in these
typical statements:

“How can reconstruction be done?
How do the Americans plan to run Ger-
many?”

“We would like to know how to get
things in order and bring peace to Ger-
many?”

“How is the world to be rebuilt?”

“What will happen in Europe?” How
can we get rid of militarism in Ger-
many?”

“Is there going to be work and food?”

“T would like to know how employment
is going to be arranged. How will the

Germans be punished for what the nazis
did?”

WORLD NEWS DESIRED

The interest in the outside world
amounted almost to a mental greed. Large-
ly they were omnivorous for news that
they had not heard in a long time. Here’s
how they put their interest in affairs
beyond their own state:

“T want to know about the economic
life of other countries.”

“How did the lower middle class live
in other countries during the war?”

“What are Russo-American relations?”

“The steps taken elsewhere to elimi-
nate economic hardships and _ inequa-
lities.” °

“T would like to know about the poli-
tical life and educational systems of
America.”

“What was going on in Spain and
Russia?”

“T would like to know how a good
leader is selected.”

And this: “I wish we could have seen
what other countries did not do to get a
Hitler.”

--- Page 12 ---
The Indictment Against Nazism

Robert H. Jadkson’s opening sfalement at the Ndrnberg Trials confains a wealth of information on the scope of nazism.
Every allegation is documented with facts — most of them official papers of the one fime German hierarchy. Pertinent
excerpts of Jackson's address are presented here.

' The privilege of opening the first trial
in history for crimes against the peace
of the world imposes a grave responsi-
bility. The wrongs which we seek to
condemn and ‘punish have been so cal-
culated, so malignant and so devastating,
that civilization cannot tolerate their being
ignored because it cannot survive their
being repeated. That four great nations,
flushed with victory and stung with in-
jury stay the hand of vegeance and volun-
tarily submit their captive enemies to the
judgment of the law is one of the most
significant tributes that Power ever has
paid to Reason.

What makes this inquest significant
vis that these prisoners represent sinister
influences that will lurk in the world
long after their bodies have returned
to dust. They are living symbols of racial
hatreds, of terrorism and violence, and of
the arrogance and cruelty of power.
They are symbols of fierce nationalisms
and of militarism, of intrigue and war-
making which have embroiled Europe
generation after generation, crushing ‘its
manhood, destroying its homes, and ‘im-
poverishing its life.

RIGHTS OF MAN DENIED

“These men created’ in Germany, under
the “Fuhrerprinzip,” a national socialist
despotism equalled only by the dynasties
of the ancient East..They took from the
German: people. all: those .dignities. and
freedoms :that ‘we hold natural. and .in-
alienable rights. in. every human being.
The: people were compensated by: in-

flaming and gratifying hatreds toward
those who were marked as “scapegoats.”

Against their opponents, including Jews,
Catholics and free labor, the nazis di-
rected such a campaign of arrogance,
brutality, and annihilation as the world
has not witnessed since the pre-Chri-
stian ages. They excited the German
ambition to be a “master race,” which
of course implies serfdom for others..
At length bestiality and bad ‘ faith
reached such excess that they aroused
the sleeping strength of imperiled civi-
lization. Its united efforts have ground
the German war machine to fragments.
But the struggle has left Europe a liber-
ated ‘yet’ prostrate land where a demor-
alized society struggles to survive: These
are the fruits of the sinister forces that
sit with these defendants in the prisoners’
dock. d

' THE LAWLESS ROAD TO POWER

We know that the nazi party was
not put in power. by a majority of the
German vote. We know it came to power
by an evil alliance between the most
extreme of the nazi revolutionists, the
most unrestrained of the German reaction-
aries, and the most aggressive of the
German. militarists. ...

Some of the defendants were with. it
from the beginning. Others joined: only
after success seemed. to have. validated
its lawléssness or power had ‘invested
it with immunity from the processes: of
the law. Adolf-Hitler became its supreme
leader or “fuehrer” in 1921, .

--- Page 13 ---
The nazi party declaration committed
its members to an anti-Semitic program.
It declared that no Jew or any person

of non-German blood could be a member °

of the nation. Such persons were to be
disfranchised, disqualified for office, sub-
ject to the alien laws, and entitled to
nourishment only after the German
population had first been provided for...

WAR EXPECTED

It is significant that the leaders of
this party interpreted this program as
a belligerent one certain to precipitate
conflict. The party platform concluded,
“The leaders of the party swear to pro-
ceed regardless of consequences — if
necessary, at the sacrifice of their lives
— toward the fulfillment of the foregoing
points.“ It is this leadership corps of the
party, not its entire membership, that
stands accused asacriminal organization.

No greater mistake could be made than
to think of the nazi party in terms of
the loose organizations which we of the
western world call “political parties.” ..

The membership took the party oath
which, in effect, amounted to an ab-
dication of personal intelligence and
moral responsibility. This was the oath:
“I vow inviolable fidelity to Adolf Hit-
ler; I vow absolute obedience to him and
to the leaders he designates for me.” The
membership in daily practice followed
its leaders with an idolatry and self-
surrender more Oriental than Western...

The Germans of the 1920’s were a
frustrated and baffled people as a result
of defeat and the disintegration of their
traditional government. The democratic
elements, which were trying to govern
Germany through the new and feeble
machinery of the Weimar Republic, got
inadequate support from the democratic
forces of the rest of the world. It is not
to be denied that Germany, when world-
wide depression was added to her other
problems, was faced with urgent and in-
tricate pressures in her economic and poli-
tical life which necessitated bold measures.

10

The nazi policy embraced ends always
recognized as attainable only by a renew-
al and a more successful outcome
of war. The conspirators’ answer to Ger-
many’s problems was nothing less than
to plot: the regaining of territories lost
in the First World War and the acquisi-
tion of other fertile lands of Central
Europe by dispossessing or exterminating
those who inhabited them. They also
contemplated destroying or permanently
weakening all other neighboring peoples
so as to win virtual domination of Europe
and probably of the world. The precise
limits of their ambition we need not
define for it was and is as illegal to
wage aggressive war for small stakes
as for large ones... .

PROGRAM FOR POWER

Nazis were never in doubt or disagree-
ment as to what the dissident elements
were. They were concisely described by
one of them, Col. General von Fritsch,
on December 11, 1938, in these words:
(Document No. 1947-PS.)

“Shortly after the first war I came to
the conclusion that we should have to
be victorious in three. battles if Ger-
many were to become powerful again:
1. The battle against the working class
— Hitler has won this. 2. Against the
Catholic Church, perhaps better expressed,
against Ultramontanism. 3. Against the
Jews.” ....

When Hitler came to power, there
were in Germany three groups of trade
unions. The General German ‘Trade
Union Confederation (ADGB) with
twenty-eight affiliated unions, and the
Gieneral Independent Employees Confeder-
ation (AFA) with thirteen federated
unions together numbered more than
4,500,000 members. The Christian Trade
Union had over 1,250,000 members.

LABOR ATTACKED AND DEFEATED _
The working people of Germany, like
the working people of other nations, had
little to gain personally by war. While
labor is usually brought around to the

--- Page 14 ---
support of the nation at war, labor by
and large is a pacific, though by. no
means a pacifist force in the world. The
working people of Germany had not for-
gotten in 1933 how heavy the yoke of the
war lord can be. The nazi program re-
quired that this part of the German popu-
lation not only be stripped of power
to resist diversion of its scanty comforts
to armament, but also be wheedled or
whipped into new and unheard of sacri-
fices as part of the nazi war preparation
Labor must be cowed, and that meant
its organizations and means of cohesion
and defense must be destroyed. . .

BARGAINING RIGHTS DENIED

On May 19, 1933, by government
decree, it was provided that “trustees” of
labor, appointed by Hitler, should regu-
late the conditions of all labor contracts,
replacing the former process of collective
bargaining. On November 30, 1934, a
decree “regulating national labor” intro-
duced the fuehrer principle into industrial
relations. It provided that the owners of
enterprises should be the fuehrers and
the workers should be the followers. The
enterpriser-fuehrers should “make deci-
sions for employees and laborers in all
matters concerning the enterprise.” It
was by such bait that the great German
industrialists were induced to support
the nazi cause, to their own ultimate
ruin.

Not only did the nazis dominate and
regiment German labor, but they forced
the youth into the ranks of the laboring
people they had thus led into chains.
Under a compulsory labor service decree
on 26 June 1935, young men and wo-
men between the ages of 18 and 25 were
conscripted for labor. Thus was the pur-
pose to subjugate German labor accom-
plished. In the words of Ley, this ac-
complishement consisted “in eliminating
the association character of the trade
union and employees’ associations, and in
its place we have substituted the con-
ception ‘soldiers of work’.” The produc-

11

tive manpower of the German nation was
a nazi control. By these steps the defend-
ants won the battle to liquidate labor
unions as potential opposition and were
enabled to impose upon the working class
the burdens of preparing for aggressive
warfare. ...

RELIGIOUS SECTS PERSECUTED

The nazi party always was predomi-
nantly anti-Christian in its ideology. But
we who believe in freedom of conscience
and of religion, base no charge of
criminality on anybody’s ideology. It is
not because the nazis themselves were
irreligous or pagan, but because they
persecuted others of the Christian faith
that they become guilty of crime, and it
is because the persecution was a step in
the preparation for aggressive warfare
that the offense becomes one of inter-\
national consequence. To remove every
moderating influence among the German
people and to put its population on a
total war footing, the conspirators
devised and carried out a systematic and
relentless repression of all Christian sects
and churches. ....

The persecutions of all pacifist and
dissenting sects, such as Jehovah’s Wit-
nesses iand the Pentocostal Association,
was peculiarly relentless and cruel....

A most intense drive was directed
against the Roman Catholic Church. After
ia strategic concordat with the Holy See,
signed in July 1933 in Rome, which never
was observed by the nazi party, a long
and persistent persecution of the Catholic
Church, its priesthood and its members,
was carried out. Church schools and edu-
cational institutions were suppressed or
subjected to requirements of nazi
teaching inconsistent with the Christian
faith. ...

ANTI-SEMITISM — A POLICY

Let there be no misunderstanding about
the charge of persecuting Jews. What
we charge against these defendants is
not those arrogances and pretensions

--- Page 15 ---
which frequently accompany the inter-
mingling of different peoples and which
are: likely, despite the honest efforts of
government, to produce regrettable crimes
‘and convulsions. It is my purpose
to show a plan and design, to which
‘all nazis were fantically committed, to
annihilate all Jewish people. These crimes
were organized and promoted by the
party leadership, and executed and pro-
tected by the nazi officials.

DIVIDE AND CONQUER

The persecution of the Jews was a
continuous and deliberate policy. It was
a policy directed against other nations.
as well as against the Jews themselves.
Anti-Semitism was promoted’ to divide
and embitter the democratic peoples and
to soften thein resistance to the nazi
‘aggression. As Robert Ley declared, “The
second German secret weapon is Anti-
Semitism because if it is constantly pur-
sued by Germany, it will become a uni-
versal problem which all nations will be
forced to consider.” .... '

The . persecution policy against the
Jews commenced with nonviolent meas-
ures, such as disfranchisement and dis-
criminations against their religion, and
the placing of impediments in the way
of success in economic life. It moved
rapidly to organized mass_ violence
against them, physical isolation in
ghettos, deportation, forced labor, mass
starvation, and extermination....

TERRORISM AND WAR PREPARATION

The purpose, as we have seen, of
getting rid of the influence of free labor,
the churches, and the Jews was to clear
their obstruction to the precipitation of
aggressive war. If aggressive warfare in
violation of treaty obligation is a matter
of international cognizance, the prepa-
rations for it must also be of concern
to the international community. Ter-
rorism was the chief instrument for se-
curing the cohesion of the German people
in war purposes.

12

I ‘shall not take time to detail the
ghastly proceedings in the concentration
camps. Beatings, starvings, tortures, and
killings were routine — so routine that
the tormenters became blase and care-
less. Under the nazis, human life was
progressively devalued. ...

Mystery and suspense were added in
order to, spread torture from the inmate
to his family and friends. Men and wo-
men disappeared from their homes or
business or from the streets, and no
word came of them. The omission of
notice was not due to overworked staff;
it was due to policy....

DOCUMENTED TORTURE

Then, to cruel experiments the nazi
added obscene ones. These were not the
work of underling degenerates but of
master minds high in the nazi conspir-
acy. On May 20, 1942, General Field
Marshal Milch authorized SS General
Wolff to go ahead at Dachau Camp with
so-called “cold-experiments;” and four
female gypsies were supplied for: the
purpose. (Document No. 400-PS.) Himm-
ler gave permission to carry on these
“experiments” also in Auschwitz and
Lublin camps. (Document No. 1615-PS.)
(Document No. 1617-PS.) (Document No,

‘1971-PS.) At Dachau, the reports of the

“doctor” in charge show that victims
were immersed in cold water until their
body temperature was reduced to 28 de
grees centigrade (82.4 degrees Farenheit),
when they all died immediately. (Docu-
ment No 1618-PS.) This was in August
1942. But the “doctor’s” technique im-
proved. By February, 1943, he was able
to report that thirty persons were chilled
to 27 to 29 degrees, their hands and
feet frozen white, and their bodies “re-
warmed” by a hot bath. But the nazi
scientific triumph was “rewarming with
animal heat.” (Reports of Dr. Rascher,
Document No. 1616-PS.) Here nazi de-
generacy reached its nadir.

I dislike to encumber the record with
such morbid tales, but we are in the

--- Page 16 ---
grim business of trying men as criminals,
and these are the things their own agents
_say happened. Our proof will be disgusting
and. you will say I have robbed you of
your sleep. But. these are the things
which have turned the stomach of the
world and set every civilized hand
against nazi Germany.....

Financiers, economists, industrialists,
joined in the plan and promoted elaborate
alterations in industry and finance to
support an unprecedented concentration
of resources and energies upon prepara-
tions for war. — These preparations
were of a magnitude which surpassed
all need of defense and every defendant,
and every intelligent German, well under-
stood them to be for. aggressive pur-
poses. ...

EXPANSION BY FORCE

As early as November 5, 1937, Hitler
told defendants, Goering, Raeder, and
Neurath, among others, that German re-
armament was practically accomplished
and that he had decided to secure by force,
starting with a lightning attack on
Czechoslovakia and Austria, greater living
space for Germans in Europe no later
than 1943-5 and perhaps as early as
1938. (Document L-12.) On the 23rd of
May 1939, the Fuehrer advised his staff
that: i,

“It is a question of expanding our
living space in the East and of securing
our food supplies ... over and above the
natural fertility, thoroughgoing German
exploitation will enormously increase the
surplus.”

“There is therefore no question of
sparing Poland, and we are left with the
decision:

To attack Poland at the first suitable
opportunity.

We cannot expect a repetition of the
Czech affair. There will be war.”

As part of the nazi preparation for
aggression against Poland and her allies,
Germany, on 23 August 1939 had entered
into a non-aggression pact with Soviet

13

Russia. It was only a delaying treaty in-
tended to be kept no longer than neces-
sary to prepare for its violation. On
June 22, 1941, pursuant to long matured
plans, the nazis hurled troops into Soviet
territory without any declaration of war.
The entire European world was aflame.

CONSPIRACY WITH JAPAN

On March 5, 1941, a top secret direc-
tive was issued by defendant Keitel. It
stated that “The Fuchrer has’ ordered
instigation of Japan’s active participa-
tion in the war” and directed that
“Japan’s military power has to be
strengthened by the disclosure of Ger-
man war experiences and support of a
military, economic, and technical’ nature
has to be given.” The aim was stated
to be to crush England quickly and “keep
the United States out of this war.” (Do-
cument Nos. 384-PS and 1489-PS.) ...

The proofs in this case will also show
that the leaders of Germany were plan-
ning war against the United States from
its Atlantic as well as instigating it from
its Pacific approaches. A captured memo-
randum from the Fuehrer’s headquar-
ters dated October 29, 1940, signed by
General Falkenstein, asks certain infor-
mation as to air bases and supply, and
reports further that “The Fuehrer is at
present occupied with the question of the
occupation of the Atlantic islands with
a view to the prosecution of war
against America at a later date. Delibe-
rations on this subject are being em-
barked upon here.” (Document. No.
376-PS.)

INTERNATIONAL LAW IGNORED

Even the most warlike of peoples have
recognized in the name of humanity some
limitations on the savagery of warfare.
Rules to that end have been embodied
in international conventions to which Ger-
many became a party. This code had
prescribed certain restraints as to the
treatment of belligerents. The enemy was
entitled to. surrender and to receive quar-

--- Page 17 ---
ter and good treatment as a prisoner
of war. It is shown by German docu-
ments that these rights were denied, that
prisoners of war were given brutal
treatment and aften murdered. This was
particularly true in the case of captured
airmen, often my countrymen....

This Nazi campaign of ruthless treat-
ment of enemy forces assumed is great-
est proportions in the fight against
Russia. Eventually all prisoners of war
were taken out of control of the Army
and put in the hands of Himmler and the
SS. (Document 058-PS.) In the East, the
German fury spent itself. Russian pri-
soners were ordered to be branded. (Do-
cument No. 1191-PS.) They were starv-
ed. (Document No. 1105-PS.) ...

Civilized usage and conventions to
which Germany was a _ party had
prescribed certain immunities for civi-
lian populations unfortunate enough to
dwell in lands overrun by hostile armies.
The German occupation forces, con-
trolled or commanded by men on trial
before you, committed a long series of
outrages against the inhabitants of occu-
pied territory that would be incredible
except for captured orders and the cap-
tured reports showing the fidelity with
which these orders were executed. ...

It is not the purpose in my part of
this case to deal with the individual
crimes of the nazi. I am dealing with the
common plan or design for crime and
will not dwell upon individual offenses.
My ‘task is only to show the scale on
which these crimes occured, and to show
that these are the men who were in the
responsible positions and who conceived
the plan and design which renders them
answerable..... Dao

By their fruits we best know them.
Their acts have bathed the world in blood
and set civilization back a century. They
have subjected their European neighbors
to every outrage and torture, every spolia-

tion and deprivation that insolence,

‘ eruelty, and greed could inflict. They

have brought the German people to the
lowest pitch of wretchedness, from which
they can entertain no hope of early de-
liverance.

CIVILIZATION BRINGS CHARGES

The real complaining party at your bar
is Civilization. In all our countries it is
still a struggling and imperfect thing. It
does not plead that the United States, or
any other country, has been blameless of
the conditions which made the German
people easy victims to the blandishments
and intimidations of the Nazi con-
spirators.

But it points to the dreadful sequence
of aggressions and crimes I have recited,
it points to the weariness of flesh, the
exhaustion of resources, and the destruc-
tion of all that was beautiful or useful
in so much of the world, and the greater
potentialities for destruction in the days
to come. It is not necessary among
the ruins of this ancient and beauti-
ful city, with untold members of its civil-
ian inhabitants still buried in its rubble,
to argue the proposition that to start or
wage an aggressive war has the moral
qualities of the worst of crimes. The
refuge of the defendants can be only
their hope that International Law will
lag so far behind the moral sense of
mankind that conduct which is crime in
the moral sense must be regarded as in-
nocent in law.

Civilization asks whether law is so
laggard as to be utterly helpless to deal
with crimes of this magnitude by crimi-
nals of this order of importance. It does
expect that your juridical action will put
the forces of International Law, its
precepts, its prohibitions and, most of
all, its sanctions, on the side of peace,
so that men and women of good will in
all countries may have “leave to live by
no man’s leave, underneath the law.”

--- Page 18 ---
Generat

US Military Government Consolidates

OMG (US Zone) Frankfurt ceases, functions fo be assumed by Office of Military Government for Germany (US):Berlin
on 1 April. USFET G-5 reactivated for MG information and advice fo Theater Commander and coordination of DP affairs.

Attainment of greater efficiency, econ-
omy of personnel and close coordination
of military government operations and
control through the Allied Control Author-
ity is the reason for the forthcoming
consolidation of the two main headquar-
ters of military government in the US
Zone, it was stated at Headquarters,
United States Forces, European Theater.

The consolidation will take place 1
April, when the Office of Military Gov-
ernment (US Zone) at Frankfurt will
cease to exist and its functional respon-
sibilities will be taken over by the Office
of Military Government for Germany
(US) in Berlin. The change affects Mili-
tary Government only. The headquarters
of the Theater Commander and Mili-
tary Governor, General Joseph T. Mc
Narney, will remain at Headquarters,
USFET, in Frankfurt.

As it is now, policy making and func-
tional direction of military government
is qentered in Berlin, while command and
supervision of the field units is largely
in Frankfurt. Under the new arrangement
military government command will be
exercised by the Berlin headquarters at
which the principal offices for func-
tional control and establishment of quadri-
partite policy are located. It is expected
that this will obviate many of the ob-
stacles inherent in the present division
of responsibilities between two widely
separated headquarters, and bring about
greater efficiency of operation with a
considerable saving in personnel.

The reorganization will place the Di-
rectors of the Offices of Military Govern-
ment for Bavaria, Greater Hesse and
Wiirttemberg-Baden under command of

15

the Deputy Military Governor, Lt. Gen.
Lucius D. Clay. Maj. Gen. C. L. Adcock,
now Director of the Office of Military
Government (US Zone) will become Dep-
uty Assistant Military Governor for
Operations, under Gen. Clay, and as such
will be directly responsible for the field
operations of military government within
the US Zone.

At the same time a G-5 staff division
will be established at Headquarters,
USFET, for information and advice to
the Theater Commander on military gov-
ernment matters affecting the Army of
Occupation; coordination of field forces
responsibilities and activities with mili-
tary government agencies and activities;
liaison with OMGG (US); supervision of
the control, maintenance, care and repat-
riation of displaced persons in the US
Zone; coordination of UNRRA activities,
and handling of Theater civil affairs mat-
ters in countries other than Germany.

The G-5 Division will be headed by
Col. S. R. Mickelsen, present chief of the
Displaced Persons Division of OMG (US
Zone), as Assistant Chief of Staff, G-5.
His deputies will be Col. Hayden N.Smith
and Col. W.C. Baker, Jr., now executive
to Gen. Adcock. It will include sections
for plans, administration, economic af-
fairs, government affairs, supply control
and liberated areas, and displaced
persons.

Because the care and control of dis-
placed persons require close coordination
between the Army of Occupation and
Military Government, the responsibilities
in this field which have rested upon OMG
(US Zone) will remain in the new G-5
Division.

--- Page 19 ---
The Office of Military Government for
Germany (US) will maintain rear eche-
lon at Frankfurt after 1 April to handle
matters closely related to military activi-
ties, but all told there will be only a
small number of military government per-
sonnel at Frankfurt, where a few months
ago the total was several hundred.

DP Care for Putative US Citizens

US citizens or persons claiming US
citizenship who are now living in DP
camps are to be permitted to remain
there until they have had full oppor-
tunity to establish their citizenship sta-
tus and make repatriation arrangements
through American Consulates and_ the
State Department, according to a recent
USFET directive.

_ American Consulates will shortly be
reopened in Berlin, Hamburg, Bremen,
Frankfurt, Stuttgart, and Munich.

The directive points out that persons
born in the US of German fathers owe
allegiance both to the US and to Ger-
many, their main allegiance being deter-
mined by the place of residence at any
given time.

German-born naturalized US citizens
who returned to Germany before or
during the war are not entitled to US
protection unless they can produce either
an American Passport valid on 7 De-
ecember 1941 or other documents from an
American Consular Office indicating that
a passport application had been approved
as of that date.

Yugoslavian Repatriation

The deadline for acceptance of repatri-
ation requests from Yugoslav military
personnel in Germany has been extended
from 8 Feb 46 to 16 April, announces
USFET.

This applies to officers, NCOs, polit-
ical and military promoters, and members
of various anti-national military forma-
tions. who served with the Yugoslav oc-
cupation forces and left with them or

16

escaped abroad. Non-military Yugoslav
DPs were not affected by the previous
deadline.

Persons in the proscribed categories
will now be granted amnesty and al-
lowed to return home only with the
consent of the Federated People’s Repub-
lic of Yugoslavia. After 16 April, those
who have not indicated a desire to return
will be considered to have voluntarily
forfeited Yugoslavian citizenship.

US Army responsibility includes setting
up collecting points in the Zone for screen-
ing and shipment of returnees now
residing outside DP camps. Prospective
repatriates living in camps will make ar-
rangements through camp directors and
Yugoslav liaison officers.

Polish Repatriation

Beginning 20 March OMGUS DP of-
ficials anticipate that 6,000 Poles a day
will be started on their journey home. ©
The figure can be raised to 9,000 if
‘enough Poles indicate a desire to return.

Bad weather and previous reluctance
for repatriation are cited as reasons why
only 198,000 Poles have been repatriated
to date while 205,000 still remain in the
US Zone.

PW Mail Service

International Red Cross Committee Ex-
press Message forms are intended only
for initial contact between PWs and their
families, according to a clarification of
PW mail instructions issued by USFET.
Normal postal channels have been es-
tablished for PW and civilian internee
communications. No more than one Red
Cross form is to be issued to each in-
dividual, and that. only if he has “received
no mail from his family for a period of
three months or more following his cap-
ture.” ; ‘

_ ETO Civilian Promotions
Promotions for. civilian War Depart-
ment employes in the ETO. have been

--- Page 20 ---
standardized by a recent G-1, USFET,
order. .

Promotions can be made only to posi-
tions already established and classified.
In addition to personal and experience
qualifications, length of service require-
ments have now also been fixed as
follows:

. Time required

For promotions in present grade

To and including grade 7 3 months
Grades 8 through 11 4 months
Above grade 11 6 months

Continental Wage Scale

A Continental Wage Scale covering the
first nine grades established in the ETO
has been announced by USFET for pay-
ment of allied nationals employed by the
US forces.

Effective 1 March 1946, this scale will
be the basis for compensation of Danish
citizens, British citizens and alien resi-
dents of the UK. British citizens resid-
ing on the Continent when hired are ex-
cluded.

The new scale ‘sets up salary step in-
creases within grade. It. is not concerned
with promotion from grade to grade. Posi-
tions now occupied by. these. employees
will be analyzed and classified in accord-
ance with Theater procedures. Provision
has been made for upward and down-
ward revisions in grade and for necessary
salary adjustments.

An employee may be considered for
salary step increase within the grade
after six months of continuous service in
the same salary classification. Steps for
higher grades will be promulgated later,
as will extension of the scale to other
areas or nationalities.

Army Use of Reichspost Facilities

Utilization of German telephone and
telegraph facilities by US forces: should
be pared to an absolute minimum und
those in present use constantly scrutin-
ized for possible release and return to

17

the Germans, states a USFET directive.

Requests for additional facilities are
not to be approved unless essential need
can be proven.

Securities of Supplies in Transit

Emphasizing that security of all sup-
plies is a function of command, a new
USFET SOP (ETO-SOP No. 52 Security
of Supplies) allocates responsibilities and
describes in detail the measures neces-
sary to prevent pilferage in transit of
Army and other materials.

Pilferable supplies include those which
have high intrinsic value and_ black
market demand and those susceptible to
sabotage. Since these categories include
most of the material transported, the new
SOP will have widest application.

Fastenings of doors and hatches, pro-
vision of adequate guards, frequent in-
spections, and prompt reporting of losses
iare among the shipping commanders’ re-
sponsibilities. Security of facilities and
installations — bridges, sidings, loading
points, ‘etc. — are the charge of the com-
manders in whose areas they are located.

Receivers of goods must inspect ship-
ments and report losses immediately, and
must assume security responsibility at
once. Coordination between shippers,
transport commanders and consignees is
required to prevent backlogging of ship-
ments with subsequent security impair-
ment.

Safeguarding
Military Information

Several of the most frequent security
violations are listed in a recent USFET
directive concerning SMI instruction to
troops. They include overclassification
and inconsistenty in classification of ma-
terial, careless discussion where it is as-
sumed English is not understood and on
military communication systems, disclo-
sures by military personnel to civilians,
and handling or viewing of classified ‘in-
formation by unauthorized personnel.

--- Page 21 ---
Unit Fund Exchange

The following certificate will be ex-
cuted when requesting exchange of part
or all of official or quasi-official funds
from one European currency to another,
directs. USFET:

“I hereby request that the following
funds in the amount of ——— which are
the official funds of (Name of Fund and
Unit) were derived only from official
sources and do not contain any personal
funds be exchanged for (Name of cur-
rency desired). John Doe

Custodian of Fund”
This procedure is effective immediately;
the certificate is to be locally reproduced.

PXs Check Excess Purchases

To prevent excess purchasing of PX
rations, personnel throughout the ETO
will be required to show AGO cards or
dog tags before buying anything, USFET
has announced. If the information on the

PX card does not correspond to the
identity document, and the PX card does
not belong to the purchaser he will be
turned over to military police for in-
vestigation.

This practice, previously in effect only
in some of the larger PXs in the Theater,
is intended as a “counter block” against
a black market source of PX merchandise.

Correct APO? Addresses

For a material improvement in mail
service all personnel are urged by
a USFET directive to inform correspond-
ents and publishers immediately of cor-
rect unit and APO number. Army units
are also instructed to notify other units
of address changes.

A War Department investigation of
mail delay recently disclosed as many as
six APO numbers on personal and of-
ficial mail addressed to the same unit,
necessitating directory service in the ETO
and serious delivery delays.

THE DEPENDENTS ARE COMING TO THE ETO

A Summarization of the Latest Directives, Instructions and Informa-
tion Concerning Movement of Service Families into the Theater

Only 547 Applications

Headquarters, USFET, announced that
as of 2400 hours, 1 March 1946, 547
information copies of applications had
been received from military personnel
asking for the movement of their de-
pendents to Europe. No estimate can be
made of those in the mail.

Of this total, 525 applications have
been received from officers and only 22
from enlisted personnel. The 547 appli-
cations call for the movement of 998 in-
dividuals of whom 588 are adults, 212 are
children four years of age or under, 151
children in the five to eleven year group,
24 in the 12 to 14 year group, and 23 in
the'15-to 17 year group.

The applications asked for 722 “indi-

18

viduals to be moved in the month of
April, 109 in May, 104 in June, 42 in
July, 17 in August, and four in Septem-
ber.

USFET officials said that the total
number of dependents shipped in April
might be considerably larger than the
722 indicated since original copies of the
applications have not yet been received
from the different community commanders.

Civilians’ Dependents Included

Dependents of all grades of US Army
civilian employees may be brought to
the ETO, USFET states.

Although details concerning application
procedure and transportation payment

--- Page 22 ---
have not yet been settled, it is announced
that the same priority system will apply
to dependents of military and civilian
personnel. Credit in establishing priori-
ties will include any overseas service
since 7 December 1941, military or civil-

Eligible applicants are those who have
served in the theater as civilians for at
least 90 days, and who agree to serve at
least one year after making application.

Communities Approved
for Dependents

A list of 57 approved military com-
munities in Germany and Austria in
which dependents of servicemen will live,
has been announced by USFET.

The communities for dependents, listed
under the major command having respon-
sibility for development and maintenance,
follow:

GROUND FORCES

(includes all forces under Third Army in
the projected Theater Organization)

Wildflecken Tetzler
Fulda Heidelberg
Eichenstreuth Gross Gerau
Gelnhausen Sonthofen
Regensburg Murnau
Gravenwéhr Friesing
Vilseck Rosenheim
Landshut Berchtesgaden
Amberg Weiden
Augsburg Bamberg
Ulm/New Ulm Bayreuth
Bad Télz/Langgries Kitzingen
Stuttgart Nirnberg/Fiirth/
Kassel Dirndorf
Bad Mergentheim Munich

AIR FORCES
Wiesbaden Neu Biberg
Erlangen Firstenfeldbruck
Erding Straubing
Hanau Bad Kissingen
Oberpfaffenhofen Lansberg
Rhein/Main Rothwesten
Horsching (Austria) Gablingen
Fritzlar Kaufbeuren

19

THEATER SERVICE FORCES/
CONTINENTAL BASE SECTION

Bremen Giessen
Mannheim Wiirzburg
Bad Nauheim Darmstadt
HEADQUARTERS COMMAND, USFET

Frankfurt

BERLIN DISTRICT
Berlin
AUSTRIA

All communities previously established
in Austria except Horsching.

APO Units To Serve Military
Communities

Postal service for the military com-
munities where dependents will live in
the European Theater will be provided
by an APO or money order unit, but de-
pendents are not entitled to the free mail
privilege, USFET states.

Dependents’ mail will be addressed in
care of the person upon whom they are
dependent, and they are requested to
advise their correspondents and publish-
ers of this form of address prior to
their departure from the ZI.

Mail for dependents will initially be
delivered through units or special staff
sections but this system may be modi-
fied at the discretion of local commanders
better to suit conditions in any certain
community.

Medical Care for Dependents

The Army will furnish medical care to
GI dependents moving into this Theater,
the Office of the Theater Chief Surgeon
has announced. :

Dental, medical, surgical, obstetrical,
and pediatric care will be available at
the community sites or will be arranged
for through Army channels.

The army requires and provides im-
munization against smallpox, typhoid,
typhus, tetanus, diphtheria and influenza.

--- Page 23 ---
German Reactions

Letters To The Editor

The letter given below was written
to the editor of the “Sueddeutsche Zei-
tung” by a Bavarian citizen who is deeply
opposed to the reestablishment of the
Monarchist Party in Bavaria. With this
as a point of departure, he makes a
number of observations on the American
‘occupation in general.

“What causes me to write is your
publication of the program of the King’s
Party (BHKP). Has Bavaria gone crazy?
In ‘the same number you report that the
Allies have forbidden seventeen royalist
groups in Austria, and that the royalists
were jailed and their property confis-
cated. Good!’ I applaud such measures.
But what about Bavaria? Why do Ameri-
cans tolerate everything here that is
reactionary ?

NAZI FELLOW TRAVELERS

“Is it possible that the Americans
have failed to notice how much the Jan-
uary elections have strengthened reac-
‘tion throughout Bavaria? It is true nazi
activists were not supposed to vote, but
who were the activists? Party members
were not allowed to vote, but their wives
and relatives were, and their friends who
never wore the party badge though they
profited from the party .... Who did
all these people vote for? They an-
nounced it loud enough for everyone to
hear: ‘We vote for the party that per-
mits us to life.’ And that is the Christ-
ian Social Union. The nazis and their
friends will always vote for the most
reactionary party. If the Royalist Party
had put up candidates for the January
elections, the nazis would have voted for

20

them.... There is not one word hostile to
the nazis or to militarists in the program
of the BHKP as I read it.

“Who can say legitimately that the
noyalists were the enemies of the nazis?
Since they themselves wish to rule and
keep the people in a backward state, it
may be that they resented a vulgar paper-
hanger like Hitler playing their tradi-
tional role. Although twelve of the Wittels-
bach dynasty may have been interned in
various concentration camps, they were
no doubt accorded the privileges of
first class inmates.

“The generals’ putsch of the 20th of
July, 1944, was to preserve and perpet-
uate their kind. They did not do it out
‘of sympathy for an oppressed people.
The same holds. good for the aristocracy
and royalty. Nothing in their program
makes even the slightest pretense at re-
jecting the militarist outlook on life.

MONARCHIST REVIVAL

“Are we to have royal Councilors of the
Court again, and chamberlains and ladies-
in-waiting and gentlemen-in-attendance,
and all the paraphernalia of the middle
ages? The population will probably be di-
vided again into those who are admissible
to court and those who are not... The
King will walk jovially about town, now
and then patting the backs of his honest,
well-behaved subjects and in the rural
districts he will pat the hindquarters of
the farmers’ horses and cows to make the
country population feel that he is a good
fellow and the ‘Father of his People.’ The
next day we shall read about it in the

--- Page 24 ---
press and be happy to have such a geod,
kind, democratic King. — Is this the kind
of democracy that the Americans want
us to have?

“All the people in Bavaria are not
complete idiots although it may seem so
_ tothe Americans!. But can’t they see
also that the bigger part of the CSU, the
royalists. and the nazis are all chips off
the same block? What difference does it
make what they call themselves? In re-
ality they are the same. No one will call
himself ‘a nazi nowadays, but even if he
hides behind the Bavarian blue and white
banner, he is distinctly visible.

AMERICANS BORED

“Anyone who has to travel a lot in
rural districts can see the same picture.
Americans are stranded in the rural Land-
kreise: They are bored to death. The
nazis come along. Each of them has
something to offer to relieve the monotony
of the Americans’ existence. One of them
has plenty of liquor. Another has a pretty
daughter or an attractive wife whom he
puts at the disposal of the Americans.
These help to: make life more amusing.
The Americans are as unsuspecting as
children. Nothing is easier than for the
nazis to persuade the officers that the
German people knew nothing of the con-
centration camp horrors, that most. of

the nazis. were innocent, they themselves
first of all, and that it would be best for
us now if we-had.a monarchy.

“Next come. -the clergy, aristocrats,
merchants — boot+ ‘lickers, all -of whom
know how to talk and to misrepresent
facts. One of them procures a green hat for
an. officer, another one gets him a badger
brush to put in it, the third finds him a
pair of leather breeches, and so on..... ;
Most. Americans give the impression of
kind-hearted boys who are always in
good humor. The pleasures of life are all
they care about. It is deplorable that
there are not democratic women and girls,
too, to befriend these young Americans.
They should get to know other women
beside those who were nazi. .

“There is nothing further from my
mind than blaming the Americans. I re-
gard them as our liberators, though only
incidentally so. Their first motive in com-
ing here was to win the war, not to free
us. But, nevertheless, they did make us
free, whether they attach any value to.
that fact or not. Unfortunately they can-
not understand, with all their imagina-
tion, what they freed us from. The other
day when you wrote about the film “The
Mills of Death” I wanted to ask if the
Americans themselves had seen the film.
I doubt it. Otherwise, how could they
be so’. indifferent as to. who was a nazi
and who; was not?”

Restaurant Conversations

Another letter in the same newspaper
presents the writer’s observations in num-
‘erous public restaurants.

“Your article on ‘Practical Christian-
ity’ expresses my experiences. It confirms
what I have long observed. As I am
obliged to take my meals in restaurants,
one day here, one day there, I have many

21

opportunities to listen to the. conversa-
tions of other diners ..... i

“The Social Democrats should. be told
that. all their honest efforts to condition
the German people for peaceableness and
democracy are in vain. So let this na-
tional socialist and militarist nation retain
its Hitherism! It would be saner to let

--- Page 25 ---
all anti-nazis flee to foreign countries.
Leave the Germans to themselves and let
them kill one another until they finally
drown in their own blood!

“The Germans are unworthy of any
democratic liberty. They need the whip
and want the whip. Freedom of speech
means nothing to them but the chance
to rail at the present government. About
the preceding nazi’ government they say
nothing. All that the newspapers write
today is called by them ‘propaganda.’ The
Niirnberg trials, the ‘Mills of Death’ are
to them lies and swindles. Quite openly
guests in restaurants say that they turn
off their radios when that ‘Nurnberg
Comedy’ starts. 5

“You hear people criticize everything
and anything except the nazis. The latter
are excused, explained, pitied, washed
clean, and even praised. Nobody is really
guilty except the enemy. In a little
cafe near Max Weber Platz I heard a
young streetcar conductor say ‘General
Paulus is one of the greatest traitors in
history, and Reichsleiter General Ritter
von Epp, (later Statthalter of Bavaria) was
right, in 1919, in having so many Com-
munists shot.’

IF HITLER HAD WON....

“TI am sure if Hitler had been victorious,
or even if he were just alive, this nation
of pigs (excuse me for this expression,
but I am furious at my countrymen)
would acclaim him still more than before
and would joyously say, ‘He was per-
fectly right in having so many Jews and
non-nazis killed.’ It would all be. fine
then. The only mistake Hitler ever made
was not to win. He is not to be re-
proached for anything else.

“It was only a short time before the
end of the war that I realized that the
German people were bad and beyond all
hope. For a long time I had been unable

to believe it. I did not want it to be true.
But now I see it, and this sad fact is
being confirmed to me day after day.

“Often I am angry because I do not
have a chance to take part in the
conversation and tell those nazis what
they ought to hear. This morning I did,
however, participate in the discussion.
I had said no more than a few words
when the whole group at the breakfast
table adopted a hostile attitude toward
me. When I finished one asked me in a
cynical tone of voice, ‘Are you German?’

NAZIS UNDEFEATED

“It is a great mistake to think that
the nazis are defeated. Reality shows
that we, the anti-nazis, are still the op-
pressed. The nazis themselves speak even
louder than formerly. For twelve years
we have had to keep our mouths shut,
and today whereever the nazis are nu-
merically superior as they generally are.
it is absolutely the same.

“Do not despise the advice of a simple
woman who has seen much in her life-
time and is not so immature in political
matters as you possibly believe. My
father was a Social Democrat for over
30 years. He knew Prime Minister Hég-
ner personally. Only today I saw Hég-
ner’s picture in the a newspaper. I could
not help pitying him when I saw the ex-
pression on his face. He has no idea how
many enemies he has and how many false
friends.

“Over 40 years ago my father said: “The
German people must always have some
leader. They do not want to think for
themselves. They just want to obey, and
are happy as long as someone else takes
their responsibility on his shoulders.’ And
often I think of my father quoting Hein-
rich Heine, ‘The German’s nature is that
of a creeping dog. He wags his tail and
licks the hand of his torturer.’”

22

--- Page 26 ---
(Dress Comments

GermanPress Criticized

Writing in The New York Times, Ray-
mond Daniell states “licensed newspapers

. in the American-occupied zone ...are
becoming more and more outspoken in
pleading Germany’s
cause. These news-
papers, free of cen-
sorship,are subject..

to post - publication
‘ serutuny jand may
have their licenses revoked if they propa-
gate nazi or militaristic ideas or malici-
ously sow discord among the Allied. How-
ever, by June the licensing... in the hands
of German boards... American control...
relaxed, although... little evidence that
German editors have absorbed much of
the American ideas of objectivity and
factual reporting of news. A majority of
the newspapers...embarking on a cam-
paign for a softening of the terms of
peace.” ‘

STUTTGART BISHOP

Consternation is expressed by Bishop
Theophil Wurm, president of the Prot-
estant Church Council in Germany, says
The New York Times, regarding “the
wholesale dismissal of nazi party mem-
bers from public office in the United
States zone. of occupation. The action...
paralyzing an already ‘shattered frame-
work of German life’... American Author-
ities have shown a tendency to make
wholesale dismissals without going into
individual cases.

ECONOMIC DISARMAMENT

Attempts to prevent the economic dis-
armament of Germany are charged to
‘reactionary’ elements in the U.S. and
Britain by the Soviet publication ‘New

ee
= Oye New ae Gimes

waa” * scoansesiie ae

Times’ reports the New YorkPM. Specifi-
cally cited are “34 U.S. Senators who
appealed last December 15 for an imme-
diate increase in German food rations...
Advocates of better living conditions for
Germany are a ‘real threat to world secu-
rity.’ It accused them of trying to pre-
serve Germany’s cartels and industrial
trusts ‘in order to preserve their own
economic positions’ and sabotage the
Potsdam agreement.”

FRENCH WEAKENING

In order to break the deadlock now ex-
isting in the Allied Control Council, says
a New York Herald Tribune dispatch,
State Department sources indicated
that the “French government may vote
for establishment of all centralized ad-
ministrative services, if assurances are
given that such action will not impair
final settlement of the Ruhr and Rhine-
land problem.” Y

SCIENTISTS IDLE

Roughly 1,000 German scientists in the
U.S. occupied zone are reported by Dr.
Roger Adams, chief scientific adviser to
MG in Berlin, to “have been condemned
to idleness in their homes or in detention
camps,” says the New York Herald Trib-
une. On the other hand, “the British,
French and Russians .... have given
captured German scientists....coal and
increased rations ... laboratory facilities
in many cases.”

GERMAN NATIONALISM
Strongly nourished by great ire “over
the proposed internationalization of the
Ruhr and ever-growing resentment over
what German politicians call the ‘quarter-

--- Page 27 ---
ing of Germany,’ the spirit of natiolalism
is reviving in Germany.” says Drew
Middleton writing in The New York
Times. “‘German unity’ is the most popu-
lar political catchword. However, Ameri-
ean intelligence officers do not consider
the revival of nationalism either wide-
spread or dangerous. Former German of-
ficers. and soldiers are the most active
adherents of the new nationalism.”

GERMAN WORKERS

After completing a ten-day tour of
Western Germany, a committee of Ameri-
can, British and French experts, reports
the New York Herald Tribune, have con-
cluded “German workers are not getting
enough to eat and are beginning to show
evidence of physical deterioration. The
worst hunger spot remains in the French
occupation zone, where exhaustion of
wheat reserves resulted ..... in substan-
tially lower rations. Recommendation was
made for more calories for Germans en-
gaged in heavy and very heavy work.”

SENATORIAL INVESTIGATION

As for the senatorial investigation of
conditions in Germany now being sug-
gested, Howard K. Smith of the Columbia
Broadcasting System says he has heard
GI’s comment “Send them over;
they’ve got things -to learn.”
' Smith thinks they would learn:
1) “German get more ‘to eat
than most of the: peoplesof Eu-
rope;” 2) Germans are well
dressed. “This doesn’t’mean that things
iare good in Germany. Thiey are’ bad every-
wherein Europe. But Americans hear more
ofGermany’stroubles simply because there
are 200 American correspondents writing
about them every day...more American
reporters thay theré are in all-the other
nations’ “of -Europe‘together.. There- is
starvation in Europe, but the‘only starve-
lings I’ve seen in Germany came out. of

German concentration. camps.”

24

BRITISH ASSISTANCE
Occupational duty in Japan is now
being shared by British empire troops,
but, says Billy Repaid, “it’s too early to
gauge ithe effect of British .... assistance
on the repatriation of American GIs.”

GERMAN PROPAGANDA

Ed Johnson — of the American Broad-
casting System believes: “Germans
making propaganda for a bigger, better
Germany. They’re happy for whatever
help their friends abroad can give them.
Any ‘time anybody in the States makes’ a
statement ... about ‘mass starvation’ in
Germany, it’s gratefully received...Ger-
mans...know they’re not starving; are
in reality better off than some of their
former victims. When the four occupy-
ing powers. find themselves unable to
agree on a thing the Germans take new
heart.”

TOUGH JOB

Despite the fact that Secretary of State
Byrnes had his way in keeping the Army
in charge of civil affairs in Germany,
says the Springfield Union, “the Army
has not been happy
in its administrative
role.” - Compliments
and words. of. praise
‘by Mr. Byrnes ‘do not
‘Jessen the Arniy’s
disappointment at being asked to con-
tinue with the assignment. ‘There appears
to be no relief in sight for the Army “un-
til such time as a small civilian force
can assume- control. That sounds ‘like
a long time. In the meantime the Army
is stuck with a tough job...somewhat
foreign to military training.and tempera-
ment.” :

ORIENTATION.COURSES
Before. sending young Americans.- to
Germany for occupation duty, insists the
Louisville Courier-Journal, they must be
‘better trained for their. job. It should: be

--- Page 28 ---
recognized that “it is highly dangerous
to the future of our country to send these
young men abroad without the protection
of really careful orientation courses.”

FOOD PROBLEM

Under the Potsdam agreement, declared
Bill Costello of the Columbia Broadcast-
ing System, it was provided that “Ger-
mans would eat no more than the neigh-
boring peoples whom they had plundered;
but is doesn’t seem to be working out
according to theory. It seems ...food dis-
tribution is a problem .... and it will
hardly seem fair to Europeans
ground under Hitler’s heel to see Ger-
mans eating better than they are. What
no one has properly explained is why
somebody’s self-interest allows Ger-
many more meat than Belgium or France.”

BRITISH TROOPS IMPATIENT

Little has been said about it in the
US, says the Washington Star, but Brit-
ish troops like Americans have been
agitating to get home. This agitation,
moreover, comments the editorial, has
taken a more extreme form “than those
in which our discontented soldiers in-
dulged. The basic reason...is probably
the slower rate of demobilization than
had been anticipated...due to Britain’s
commitments and responsibilities. But...
the men...aggrieved just the same.

UNIVERSITY STUDENTS

A recent magazine article about Ger-
man universities, says the BaltimoreEve-
ning Sun, calls “really shocking... the
interests of this new generation of stu-
dents. Their interest centers overpower-
ingly on ‘technical and professional know-
ledge and skill.’ It is especially disturbing
that in Germany where defeat might have
been expected to disenchant youth with
tthe excessive concern with ‘technics’ as
a guide to life, the drift away from the
liberal arts is increasing.”

25

STATEMENT CONFIRMED

Even though, notes the Washington
Star, General Morgan “made statements
outside his province that could have been
misconstrued, it is of interest to note that
subsequent to these statements Third
Army intelligence officers and others con-
firmed the fact that Polish Jews, seem-
ingly well financed, are infiltrating the
American occupation zone in Germany,
‘enroute to Palestine.”

ESSENTIAL NEED

The Providence Bulletin is unimpressed
with the fact that German behavior in
the American occupation zone “has been
better than expected. The essential need
is an occupational policy and occupation
machinery that will stimulate the Ger-
mans ‘to put their own wrecked house in
order and keep it running, under foreign
supervision at the top.”

STARVATION IMAGINARY

Charges by Senator Wherry and others
that Germans are starving, declares the
Chicago Sun, “is a new expression of the
isolationist line. The...current ration of
1,550 calories is little if any lower than
jn other western countries, and there is
evidence that the actuality is better than
the theoretical ration. General Clay.....
has had to warn local officials to stop
underestimating food stocks available.
The ‘starvation’ exists in Senator
Wherry’s oratory — not Germany.”

ELECTIONS INCONCLUSIVE

Voting to date in the American occu-
pation zone of Germany, states the
Christian Science Monitor, has resulted
jn a triumph for “the two German ‘trad-
ition’ parties. There were no...signs the
Germans felt particularly elated with
their political freedom regained. The re-
cent elections were held in localities little
touched by the war. When the inhabit-
ants of Munich, Frankfurt, Stuttgart or
Niirnberg go to the polls ... they may

--- Page 29 ---
prove less tradition bound and their
voting more indicative of the Reich’s po-
litical future.”

MORE ADO ABOUT STARVATION

Various reports to the contrary, says
Willam Lang of the Mutual Broadcasting
System, “the people are not starving in
Germany and they won’t starve. On the
other hand, they won’t live nearly as well
as they under Hitler.”

BACK HOME

In defense of British and American
combat troops who have seen long periods
of service, the Raleigh News and Ob-
server declares: “Men who dared and
suffered without a minimum of complaint
when fighting was on now wish the home
comfort for which they dared all and did
all. And all, except those needed in the
occupied countries, have the right to come
home.”

MISCELLANY:

. WASHINGTON BACKGROUND: Al-
lied Armies found slightly more than
6,000,000 displaced persons in the U.S.,
British, and French-occupied zones of

Germany, and most of them by now have
been returned.

EDGAR MOWRER: The Nirnberg
judges are in possession of evidence that
Haj Amin el Husseini, ex-Grand Mufti of
Jerusalem and the world’s chief anti-
Zionist, is the Author of the nazi plan
for the extermination of over five million
Jews.

HANSON W. BALDWIN: Ultimate
plans for the maintenance of Army “se-
curity” or police forces in Germany call
for the concentration of three divisions
under command of Lt. General Truscott
in a quadrilateral area between Frankfurt
on the Main and Munich. There will be
no other United States security forces...
lexcept...Maj.General Ernest N. Harmon’s
mechanized constabulary ... and ... Mili-
tary Government officials.

DREW PEARSON: The British aren’t
helping the Palestine situation by sending
nazi prisoners of war to the Holy Land
as work crews.

DANTON WALKER: The American
occupation troops will get new, blue uni-
forms, recommended by General Fisen-
hower.

26

--- Page 30 ---
Station List

Military Government Elements

OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR

UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER

UNITED STATES FORCES EUROPEAN THEATER
Office of
Mil Govt for
Germany (U.S.) Berlin
Office of
Mil Govt (U.S. Zone) Frankfurt

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay

Maj Gen C L Adcock

LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

Office ot Mil Govt.
for Wiarttemberg-

Baden Stuttgart Col W W Dawson

1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep)

G-43 Heidelberg
G-46 Pforzheim
G-47 Karlsruhe

SK-LK Heidelberg
SK-LK Pforzheim
SK-LK Karlsruhe

(APO 154)
Hq 1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Stuttgart Col W W Dawson
Hq & Sv Co 1st Mil Govt Bn (Sep) Stuttgart 1st Lt J P Clifford
Hq, Co bh 1st Lt N Oakes
1st Mobile Maint Plat Capt E Thompson
Wirttemberg

E-1 Stuttgart Wiarttemberg Col W W Dawson
F-10 Stuttgart SK Stuttgart Maj R H Stimson
F-11 Ulm SK-LK Ulm Maj J Owen
G-20 Aalen LK Aalen Maj M_ Hoover
G-21 Boblingen LK Boblingen Capt W A Becker
G-22 Crailsheim LK Crailsheim Maj T Taylor
G-23 Esslingen LK Esslingen Capt F A McDonald
G-24 Gmind LK Gmind 1st Lt S R Combs
G-25 Géppingen LK Géppingen Maj J A Holbrook
G-26 Schwabisch Hall LK Hall Capt H A Wyatt
G-27 Heidenheim LK Heidenheim Maj B V Bloom

* G-28 Heilbronn LK Heilbronn Maj M W Terry
G-29 Ludwigsburg LK Ludwigsburg 1st Lt J Strauss
G-30 Waiblingen LK Waiblingen Maj H W Freeman
H-50 Backnang LK Backnang Capt M B Watson
H-52 Kanzelsau LK Kanzelsau Capt W _L Strauss
H-53 Leonberg LK Leonberg Capt RS Deetz
H-54 Bad Mergentheim LK Mergentheim Capt R Forrest
H-55 Nartingen LK Nartingen Maj S A Warren
H-56 Ohringen LK Ohringen 1st Lt M Korson
H-58 Vaihingen LK Vaihingen Capt J G Cox

Landesbezirk North Baden

Co E Durlach Landesbezirk 1st Lt H Oakes
E-7 Karlsruhe North Baden Col C Lisle
F-16 Mannheim SK-LK Mannheim Maj L L Lewis

Lt Col J I Taylor
1st Lt N Semaschko
Maj W T Neel

H-87 Bruchsal LK Bruchsal Maj E V Le Blanc
H-89 Buchen LK Buchen Maj J A McGuinness
H-90 Mosbach LK Mosbach Capt W J Melchers
H-91 Tauberbischofsheim LK Tauberbischofsheim 1st Lt J Zecca

H-92 Sinsheim LK Sinsheim Capt H D Peterson

27

--- Page 31 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Office of Mil Govt
for Land'Greater Hesse
Wiesbaden

Hq 2d Mil Gvt Bn (Sep) Wiesbaden
Hq Co 2d Mil Gvt Bn (Sep) Wiesbaden
Sv Co 2d Mil Gvt Bn (Sep) Oberursel

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

E-5 Wiesbaden
E-6 Frankfurt
F-15 Wiesbaden

G-41 Wetzlar
H-77 Dillenburg

H-78 Gelnhausen

H-79 Hanau
H-80 Weilburg

H-81 Hofheim
H-83 Ridesheim

H-86 Bad Homburg

H-87 Essen’ (Ruhr)
H-88 Sulzbach (Saar)

Regierungsbezirk Kassel
E-4 Kassel
F-14 Kassel

G-38 Fritzlar

; G-39 Marburg
G-40 Fulda
G-48 Korbach
H-65 Eschwege
H-67 Hersfeld

H-68 Hofgeismar

Regierungsbezirk Hessen

3 Darmstadt
'-12 Darmstadt
1

ae

F-13 Offenbach
G-31 Bensheim
G-32 Badingen
G-33 Dieburg
G-34 ‘Friedberg *
G-35 Giessen
H-62 Lauterbach

LAND GREATER HESSE

2d Mil Govt Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

RB Wiesbaden
SK Frankfurt
SK Wiesbaden
LK Wetzlar

LK Dillkreis &
LK Biedenkopf
LK Gelnhausen &
LK Schlichtern
SK-LK Hanau
LK Limburg &
LK Oberlahn
LK Maintaunus
LK Rheingau &
LK Untertaunus
LK Usingen &
LK Obertaunus
Liaison

Liaison

RB Kassel

SK-LK Kassel &

LK Melsungen

LK Fritzlar-Homberg &

LK Ziegenhain

SK-LK Marburg

SK-LK Fulda & LK Hinfeld

LK Waldeck & LK Frankenberg

LK Eschwege &
LK Witzenhausen
LK Hersfeld &
LK Rotenburg
LK Hofgeismar &
Lk Wolfhagen

RB Hessen

SK-LK Darmstadt &

LK Gross Gerau

SK-LK Offenbach

LK Bergstrasse & LK Erbach
LK Bidingen

LK Dieburg

LK Friedberg

SK-LK Giessen

LK Lauterbach & LK Alsfeld

28

Col J R Newman

Col J R Newman
1st Lt K M Burke
Capt B Sturdevan

Col J R Newman
Lt Col F E Sheehan
Mai Chatos

Maj M Baymen

Maj D B Bernstein

Lt Col T Turner Jr
Maj T Turner Jr

1st Lt H L Edburg
Maj J C Nelson

Maj J G Gavin
Capt O Kuntzleman
Capt G E Skaggs Jr
Maj W Condy

Lt Col A Skarry

Lt Col R Bard

Capt G De Nubla

Maj L S Williams

Maj C F Russe

Capt H R Dichtenmueller
Capt W B Getmann
Capt R W Godwin

Capt § B Borda

M Easterday
Nickelsberg

--- Page 32 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Office of
Mil Govt for
Bavaria Munich

Hq 3d Mil Govt Munich
Hq Co Munich

Sv Co Munich

R & T Co Munich

3d MG Med Det Munich
3d MG Med Sec Munich

Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken

Co A Wirzburg
E-202 Wirzburg
F-210 = Wiarzburg
G-220 = Aschaffenburg
G-221 Schweinfurt
H-250 Bad Kissingen
H-251 Kitzingen
1-330 Alzenau
1-331 Britckenau
1-332 Ebern
1-333 Gemiinden
- 1-334 Gerolzhofen
1-335 Hammelburg
1-336  Hassfurt
1-337 Hofheim
1-338 — Karlstadt
1-339  K6nigshofen
1-340 Lohr
1-341 Marktheidenfeld
1-342 Mellrichstadt
1-343 Miltenberg
1-344 Neustadt Saale
1-345  Obernburg
1-346 Ochsenfurt

LAND BAVARIA

3d Mil Govt Regt
(APO 403)

RB Mainfranken
SK-LK Warzburg
SK-LK Aschaffenburg
SK-LK Schwein furt
LK Kissingen

LK Kitzingen

LK Alzenau

LK Briackenau

LK Ebern

LK Geminden

LK Gerolzhofen
LK Hammelsburg
LK Hassfurt

LK Hofheim

LK Karlstadt

LK Kénigshofen
LK Lohr

LK Marktheidenfeld
LK Mellrichstadt
LK Miltenberg

LK Neustadt a. d. Saale
LK Obernburg

LK Ochsenfurt

Regierungsbezirk Ober & Mittelfranken

Co B Ansbach
E-203 Ansbach
F-211 Narnberg
G-228 = Ansbach
G-229 Firth

H-261 _—Dinkelsbahl
H-262 _—_Eichstadt
H-263 Feuchtwangen
H-264 Gunzenhausen
H-265 Hersbruck
H-266 —_Hilpoltstein
H-267 —- Weissenburg
H-268 — Rothenburg
H-269 Schwabach
H-270 — Scheinfeld
H-271 Windsheim
H-272 — Lauf

H-273 Neustadt a. d. Aisch
Co C Bamberg
G-222 Bamberg
G-223 Bayreuth

RB Ober and Mittelfranken
SK-LK Nirnberg
SK-LK Ansbach

SK-LK Farth

LK Dinkelsbihl

LK Eichstadt

LK Feuchtwangen

LK Gunzenhausen

LK Hersbruck

LK Hilpoltstein

LK Weissenburg

LK Rothenburg

LK Schwabach

LK Scheinfeld

LK Uffenheim

LK Lauf

LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch

SK-LK Bamber,
SK-LK Bayrew

29

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C C Morgan
Capt J W Preston
Capt S V Lesnescki
2nd Lt W T Lyons
Lt Col E R Jenney
Maj M J Kanner

Lt Col M E Henderson
Lt Col M E Henderson
Lt Col J B Bradford
Maj C M Emerick
Lt Col J B Thomson
Capt M A Potter
Capt J B Lynn
Capt K L Ellis

Maj H P Clark Jr
Capt R W Jones

1st Lt Coter

Capt J M Simon
Maj E G Emery
Capt'J R Ellis Jr
Capt E F Smith
Capt W E Brayden
Capt L F Girolani
Capt Elmer E Kelly
Maj M B Voorhees
Lt L K Owens

Capt D J Huffman
Capt E F Warnke
Maj B H Logan
Capt H A Storm

Capt G N Hultzen

Col E M Haight

Lt Col C Klise

Lt Col W R Whitaker Jr

Maj J D Cofer

Lt Col J W Hall

Maj W T Stoats

1st Lt D J Smith

Maj H W Zurn

Maj H R Glaser

Maj H T Lund

Capt J J Carr

Maj R C Anderson

Maj R E Stringer

Maj H C Kauffmann

Maj E I Paul

Maj EN Le ead
j F K Hinchey

Lt A E Leidy
j H L Woodall

C J Reilly

(a:

E
Maj F
Ist Lt
Maj H
Lt Col

--- Page 33 ---
OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR
UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER

G-224 Erlangen LK Erlangen. Lt Col F Robie
G-225 Coburg SK-LK Coburg Maj S Klein
G-226 Kronach LK Kronach Capt J F Begley
G-227 Hof SK-LK Hof Maj B P White
G-247 _Lichtenfels LK Lichtenfels Lt Col J R Case
H-252 = Ebermannstadt LK Ebermannstadt Capt J J Bianchi
H-253  — Hochstadt LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch Maj R G Hanford
H-254  Kulmbach LK Kulmbach Lt Col P B Lamson
H-255 Pegnitz LK Pegnitz Maj M F Skinner
H-256 § Munchberg LK Munchberg Maj A C Abbott
H-258 Rehau LK Rehau Maj R H Dodds
H-259 = Wunseidel LK Wunseidel Maj D H Alexander
H-260 = Forcheim LK Forcheim Maj R J Nelson
1-347 Naila LK Naila 1st Lt W P Morris
1-348 — Stadtsteinach LK Stadtsteinach 1st Lt H F Casademont

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern & Oberpfalz

Co D
E-204
F-212
G-230

G-244
H-274
H-275
H-276
H-277
H-278
H-279
1-349
1-350
1-351
1-352
1-353
1-354
1-355
1-356
1-357
1-358
G-243
G-245
G-246
H-301
H-302
H-303
H-304
H-305
H-306
H-307
H-308
H-309
H-310
1-375
1-377
1-378
1-379
1-380
1-381
1-382
1-383
1-385

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern
Munich
Munich
Munich

Go F

E-205
F-213
G-236

Regensburg
Regensburg
Regensburg
Weiden

Amberg

Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunburg
Eschenbach
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldminchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Passau
Landshut
Straubing
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsiburg
Wolfstein
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach
Kétzting
Mainburg
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach

Wegscheid

Partenkirchen

RB Niederbayern & Oberpfalz
SK-LK Regensburg

SK Weiden &

LK Neustadt a. d. Wald
SK-LK Amberg

LK Cham

LK Burglengenfeld

LK Parsberg

LK Tirschenreuth

LK Neunburg vorm Wald
LK Eschenbach i. d. Opf.
LK Kemnath

LK Nabburg

LK Oberviechtach

LK Riedenberg

LK Vohenstrauss

LK Roding

LK Waldminchen

LK Beilngries

LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
LK Sulzbach-Rodenburg
SK-LK Passau

SK-LK Landshut

SK-LK Straubing

LK Deggendorf

LK Eggenfelden

LK Grafenau

LK Kelheim

LK Landau a. d. Isar
LK Pfarrkirchen

LK Regen

LK Vilshofen

LK Vilsibur;

re eee

LK Dingolfing

LK Griesbach

LK Kétzting

LK Mainburg

LK Mallersdorf

LK Rottenburg

LK Viechtach

LK Wegscheid

RB Oberbayern
SK-LK Munich
LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen

30

1st Lt H D Gross
Lt Col G D Hastings
Maj C G Doyle

Maj J C Robertson Jr
Maj J H Mattox
Capt L S Gagliardi
Capt E Fichter

Capt R E Boyd

Maj F P Murray
Capt S P Himic
Capt W R Baylies
1st Lt E Slopak
Capt F N Shanbacker
Capt R A Berry
Capt B J Tutuska
Capt F Traynhem
Capt C R Bucheit
1st Lt F Henky

1st Lt R W Crowley
Capt W N Blanton
Capt A J Dann

Maj W Wickersham
Maj H J Mrachek
Maj H T Olsen

1st Lt O A Childs
Maj E W Manning
Capt S Perlman
Capt C T Hutson
1st Lt H Fueglein
Capt A V Di Giwni
Capt A R Sphar
Capt W J Fitzpatrick
Capt F Harris

Capt R W Douglass
Capt A G Albert
Capt E M Martocci
Capt A S Gallant
Capt J W Fleishman
Capt J W Leidy
Capt S Jacobs

1st Lt E A Russo
Capt A L Corcelius
Capt H Walter

1st Lt W M Ellis
Lt Col R F Brooks
Lt Col E Keller Jr
Lt Col C H Heyl

--- Page 34 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

G-237 _ Ingolstadt

G-238 = Munich

H-286 Farstenfeldbruck
H-287 —_ Landsberg
H-288 Pfaffenhofen
H-289 = Starnberg

H-290 = Weilheim

H-291 Wolfratshausen
1-362 Aichach
1-364 Schrobenhausen
1-367 Dachau
1-368 Schéngau
G@E Wasserburg
G-231 Freising
G-232 Miesbach
G-233 Traunstein
G-234 Altotting
G-235 Rosenheim
H-280 =Erding *
H-281 Laufen
H-282 = Mahldorf

H-283 = Wasserburg

H-284 = Bad_Talz

H-285 _— Aibling

H-311 Berchtesgaden
1-361 Ebersberg

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Co G Augsburg
E-206 Augsburg
F-214 — Augsburg
Dillingen
G-240 Weissenborn
G-241 Sonthofen
G-242 Kempten
H-292 Donauwérth
H-293 Ginzberg
H-294 Markt Oberdort
H-295 Memmingen
H-296 Mindelheim
H-297 = Neuberg
H-298 Nérdlingen
H-299 Fassen
H-300 _ Krumbach
1-369 _Illertissen
1-370 Kaufbeuren
1-372  Wertingen
1-373 Friedberg
1-374 Schwabmiinchen

Office of

Mil Govt

_(U.S. Sector

Berlin) Berlin

Office of Mil Govt
(Bremen Port Command) Bremen

Office of Mil Govt

for Bremen Bremen
Office of Mil Govt
for Weserminde Wesermiinde

SK-LK Ingolstadt
LK Munich

LK Firstenfeldbrick
LK Landsberg

LK Pfaffenhofen
LK Starnberg

LK Weilheim

LK Wolfratshausen
LK Aichach

LK Schrobenhausen
LK Dachau

LK Schéngau

LK Freising

LK Miesbach

LK Traunstein
LK Altétting
SK-LK Rosenheim
LK Erding

LK Laufen

LK Mahldorf

LK Wasserburg
LK Télz -

LK Aibling

LK Berchtesgaden
LK Ebersberg

RB Schwaben

SK-LK Augsburg

LK Dillin,

LK Neu Ulm

LK Sonthofen

SK-LK Kempten

LK Donauwérth

LK Ginzberg

LK Markt Oberdorf

LK Memmingen

LK Mindelheim

LK Neuberg a. d. Donau
LK Nordlingen

LK Fissen

LK Krumbach

LK Illertissen

LK Kaufbeuren

LK Wertingen

LK Friedberg

LK Schwabminchen '

U.S. SECTOR, BERLIN DISTRICT

U.S. Sector, Berlin District
(APO 755)

BREMEN PORT COMAND
(APO 751)

Bremen Port Command
SK Bremen
SK Wesermiinde

31

Maj L H Norins

M T Mawrence
t J J Me pie
tM LM

t JE Thayer

M W Nitz-

t R J O'Dowd
Maj P L Steers
Capt L R Da

1st Lt R C Wiggins
Capt V A Burke
Maj C A Rein

Capt D E Brown
Maj E Boney

Lt ‘Col J Kelly

Maj C J Bischoff
Maj R_L Montague
Capt R H Nece'!
Maj _C C Brown
1st Lt D L Price
Capt W M Forys
1st Lt A L Klinger
Capt V Thom

Maj E J Newmeyer
Capt W_ Caruso

1st Lt C C Smith Jr

Ma}
Cap
Cap
Cay
me P'
Capt

Capt O Meirhenry
Lt Col C M Avery
a Gl R en Norton

j Darragh
tale JM Tatimer
Maj J E Rhea
Capt B M Ziegler
Capt L A Proper
Capt M Glossop
Capt B M Green
Lt Col R F Wagner
Maj E C Bunker
Capt H E Reeves
Capt S H Brown
Capt S D Lubin
Capt C E Witney
Capt F E Kettunen
1st Lt R E Lee
Capt J S Woodward
Capt L ‘Sime
Capt LE Smith Jr

Col F L Howley

Lt Col C H Scott
Lt Col J M Shamel

Lt Col L S Diggs

--- Page 35 ---
