--- Page 2 ---
No. 43 — 27 MAY 1946

Military Government

. Weekly
Information Bulletin

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT
FOR GERMANY, US
CONTROL OFFICE
APO 742 U.S. ARMY

--- Page 3 ---
UNITED STATES ZONE, GERMANY
Greater Hesse, Wiirttemberg-Baden

BRITISH ZONE

UNGEN
FRANRENBERS US aitzi ane rahe
~ HOMBERG i
NS _-—~ X ROTENBURG
~

i
2ecen- VN
main ( HERSFELO

: RUSSIAN

/ 5

FRENCH

nes AG.

vv

AALEN

LEGEND Te uae
Bturg omno
— — REGIERUNGSBEZIRYE AND ad te =~ a
LANDESBEZIRK ADEN ‘’ a creeany ve
Pes
elle “en
——— LANDKREISE AND STADTKREISE f ne =

WU

uLM

5
SOURCE OMG-RA! BRANCH ATISTICS SECTION

-C GEN STAFF USFET

--- Page 4 ---
No. 43 — 27 MAY 1946

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT
FOR GERMANY, US
CONTROL OFFICE
APO 742 U.S. ARMY

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
THIS WEEK

PAGE
Official Instructions 2... . . 1 1 we ee 4A
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY
Reopening German Universities. . . 2... 2... = =5
MG Agencies Winding up Denazification Affairs . . 10
Facts and Figures on the German Economy. . . . 11
MG Moves To Prevent Bavarian Food Hoarding. . . 13
1946 Leipzig fair in Review. . . ...... . 16
GENERAL Se ee ee eee 14
Liquidation of German Military And Nazi Monuments
Ordered 2... ee 4
Laenderrat Proposals . . . . . ....... 14
Nazi and Militarist Literature. 2. 2. 2. 1... ww. 15
Housing Functions. Transferred . . . . . . . . . 15
Civil Service Transfers . 2 2 2 2. 2... 15
More Items for Export. . 2. 2. 2. 1. 2 ww. 15
Interzonal Sales . 2 2. 2 2... ee 18
GERMAN REACTIONS. .......... 19
Licensed Press Views Deindustrialization Law. . . . 19
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS... ... 21
Station List. 2... ee ee 7

--- Page 7 ---
OFFICIAL LETTERS AND INSTRUCTIONS

Bonds of Accountable ‘Offreers .

Luxembourg Reciprocal Aid Property .

Channels of Communications .

. AG 168 GDS-AGO, USFET

3 May 1946

. AG 480.02 GDS-AGO, USFET

4 May 1946

. AG 312.2 (CO), OMGUS

14"May 1946

--- Page 8 ---
By E. Y. Hartshorne

Long before any actual university was
considered ready to receive students the
general strategy involved in reopening the
German universities had been worked out
in the Education Section of Public Health
and Welfare Branch, US Group CC. (Six
of the seven universities in the US Zone.
are once more open and crowded with
eager young students of the arts, and pro-
fessions. The seventh, Giessen, was a
war casualty. (A general survey of these
“schools for democracy” was presented
in Weekly Information Bulletin No. 21,
15 December 1945. Ed.)

As so often occurred in MG work, the
original plan for the universities had to
be modified in the light of unforeseen
developments, but in all essentials the
contemplated “strategy of rebirth” has
been consistently followed.

This strategy was in brief to treat the
universities as legally dissolved along
with the Reich political apparatus of
which they were a part, and ther to rec-
ognize de facto representative bodies,
called “university planning commitees,”
as sole responsible authorities for pre-
paring for the reopening of their institu-
tions. Since the German university facul-
ties have a tradition of self-government
stretching back to the Middle Ages it
was hoped that out of the wreckage
of defeat each university would be able
to put forward a “citizens? commitee”

ERMAN _
NIVERSITIES

of this sort capable of taking charge and
not merely working under MG directives
but of doing the job — our job — to all
intents and purposes for us, and better
than we could have done it ourselves.

Perhaps the best way to explain what
this meant in actual practice is to consider
a particular case. This is what happened
at Marburg: A representative of the
Education and Religious Affairs Sections,
US Group Control Council, visited Mar-
burg early in May, 1945, and talked with
Professor Julius Ebbinghaus, who was
at that time preparing a radio talk sup-
porting the thesis of German responsi-
bility for the Nazi regime and indirectly
for the Nazi atrocities. Ebbinghaus asked
about the possibility of reopening the uni-
versity, which had been virtually undam-
aged in the war, but was told that no
definite date had been set by MG for
the reactivation of higher education, that
primary and secondary schools had to
come first, and that it might be two
years before lectures began again at Mar-
burg. Since, however, Professor Ebbing-
haus appeared willing to cooperate with
the Allied program, and had a good
reputation, it was suggested to him that
he form a committee from among his
colleagues, if indeed he could find some
on whose cooperation he could count.

The committee was to serve a double
purpose. For us in MG it would serve

--- Page 9 ---
fluences in” higher—educa ;

matters connected with the reconstruc-”
tion, rehabiltation and even reform of
German university life. Ebbingghaus was
told something about the work of uni-
versity reform committees at American
institutions, and copies of the Harvard
reports on “Tenure and Personnel” (1938)
and “General Education in a Free Soc-
iety” (1945) were placed at his disposal.

DEVELOPED ON OWN INITIATIVE

Although Professor Ebbinghaus invited
the MG Education Officer to meet with
the committee, it was felt advisable to
let it develop a bit on its own initiative.
Two meetings had been held and a long-
term program of work laid out before
the MG representative visited a session
and spoke briefly about our objectives.
Also present were Professor Rudolf Bult-
mann of the Theology Faculty, one of the
few German academicians on both the
British and the American “with list”
(drawn up before occupation) ; Dr. Ernst
Kretschmer, Dean of the Medical Faculty,
whose book Physique and Character had
been translated into sixteen languages;
Kurt Reidemeister, mathematician, poet
and historian of science, who had been
“bounced” from the University of Koe-
nigsberg in 1934 because he had protested
against the Nazi dismissal of his Jewish
colleagues; Professor Jost, physical chem-
ist, who had spent a year at M.I.T.,
and Fritz von Hippel, Dean and only
non-Party-member of the Law Faculty.
In the course of the summer the Com-
mittee was joined by Werner Krauss,
Professor of Romance Languages and Li-
terature, who returned in July after three
years’ political imprisonment for partic-
ipation in one of the earliest plots to
overthrow the Hitler regime. Other ad-

In the first two months of its delibera-
tions the Marburg Committee turned out
a number of interesting memoranda,—es-
pecially one on “Principles of Personnel
Policy” which went even beyond the MG
denazification directive. No teacher was
to be accepted whose writings or teach-
ings had contributed to the spread of
“totalitarian ideas.” A longer study on
“The Position of the University Teacher
as a Civil Servant” attempted to define
the scope of academic freedom available
to, and incumbent on, the state-employed
German scholar. Another report raised
the ticklish issue of the abolition of the
Kolleggelder, or tuition fees paid to in-
dividual professors by students enrolled
in their courses.

NECESSITY OF EDUCATION

In this way the committee gradually
went over the ideas and assumptions which
lay at the basis of German higher educa-
tion and which had been so rudely “co-
ordinated” or pushed aside in the Nazi
period. Two years would not have been
too long to permit an adequate thinking
through of all the problems and policies
involved. Meanwhile, however, this lei-
surely plan had to be speeded up because
of other developments. It was considered
necessary to maintain the continuity of
medical education on grounds of public
health and morale, while religious inter-
ests similarly backed the reopening of
the theological schools. The German pro-
fessors themselves also began to clamor
for work to begin, fearing that idle
masses of students would create trouble.

In consequence of these factors MG
educational specialists, in collaboration
with screening personnel from G-2 Spec-
ial Branch and CIC, combed the Ameri-

--- Page 10 ---
| everyone fe im for-
h p a, pos: cb ee:
s to prove that s ‘well

should Ber ender way. ebora without
the natural sciences Feould or
quately trained ;” without philosophy

the humanities they would be “cultural
boors.” Secondary schools needed new
teachers, and these could be trained and
recruited only in the universities.

Furthermore, the functioning of even
a small part of the complicated machin-
ery of university administration raised
imperative issues which went far beyond
the scope of the instructional sector in-
volved. If students were to be taught,
someone had to teach them. Someone had
to select these teachers and administer
the staff. Someone had to select, admit,
examine and supervise the students. Some-
one had to provide funds for salaries
and other expenses. Someone had to have
the authority to grant academic degrees
and to confer the license to practice a
profession.

How were these administrative prob-
lems to be solved? The Planning Com-
mittee had been set up as a deliberative
body for the preparation of memoranda
which might serve to guide later admin-
istrators in the formulation of university
policy in the new Germany of the post-
Nazi era. It was never contemplated that
what was essentially a discussion group
could ever undertake the routine task of
university administration. To borrow a
military phrase, these committees were
intended to formulate policy, but not to
“operate.” It was clear that before any
part of an institution could be permitted

sen-Kassel in 1866.

te

Thus the University oe Mase
passed then under the control of of the ex-
panding Prussian monareby and
a “royal state university”.in the charac- y
teristic Prussian form. That is, instead of
enjoying the benevolent slags ee |
local prince it came under the~super
vision of a Prussian “Kuritor” who wa
appointed by the Minister of Education
in Berlin and reported directly to him.
The professors, now qualified Prussian
civil servants, elected every year one
of their senior members to serve as Rec-
tor, but his power and prerogatives were
limited to routine academic functions,
while the important matters of finance
and appointments were settled between
the Kurator, a permanent official, and
the Minister. The Rupublic did nothing
to change this control device, and after
1933, when the Nazified Reich Ministry
of Education absorbed the Prussian as
well as all the other Ministries, there
was again no administrative change ex-
cept that Marburg was one of 23 instead
of merely one of 12 universities
controlled from Berlin.

It is indicative of the strength and
momentum of the Prussian ministerial

--- Page 11 ---
bureaucracy that the last Kurator of the
University of Marburg, appointed: by a
Republican Government in 1920, served
twelve years under:the Republic, another
twelve years under the Nazis, and, al-
thoygh seyenty years of age, was ready to
continue his work under American oc-
cupation authorities almost as if nothing
had happened. It was a great surprise
and sorrow to him when he was notified
that his services would no longer be
required.

END OF PRUSSIAN CONTROL

The removal of..the Kurator of the
University of Marburg marked symbol-
ically the end of four score. years of
Prussian control. With the collapse of
the Reich, and Prussia too, the state
authority which had exercised control
over the remote Hessian institution fell
away; and thereby the office of Kurator,
the “long hand” of the Minister in Ber-
lin, likewise disappeared. The retiring
of the last incumbent of this office was
a minor, though delicate, operation, and
absolutely essential. The umbilical cord
had to be severed. The university had
to learn again to live alone as it already
had for three and a half centuries. “De-
centralization” would, it was hoped, help
to restore more independence of thought
and action to the university faculties.

Later, when the new Laender govern-
ments had been organized, fiscal and ad-
ministrative routines would have to be
worked out on a local basis between the
new Land Minister of Education and the
university administration, but meanwhile
the faculties themselves, the traditional
governing bodies, would have had an op-
portunity to work out their own destin-
ies.

There is no space to describe the sub-
sequent developments at Marburg or else-
where in detail. Elections took place
in which the approved professors elected
an “acting Rector,” who thereafter became
the sole channel for communication be-
tween Military Government and the uni-

versity. In most. cases the Chairman of

the Planning Committee was elected, the
Committee thus remaining as an advisory

body under the Rector. At the end of six

months the universities were given an
opportunity to present draft constitu-
tions which would regularize further elec-
tions and increase their independence
from Military Government. Thus far no
constitution has been proposed. The tran-
sition period is still in progress.

The problems confronting university
administration during the first year of
occupation have been first and foremost
denazification and reconstruction of the
teaching staff; second, selection of stu-
dents from both the political and the
academic points of view; and third, se-
curing the necessary financial and ad-
ministrative support of the ministries.

REBUILDING TEACHING STAFFS

Procedure on denazification was to al-
low the Committees to start from scratch
and propose new teaching staffs. All can-
didates for teaching posts, including not
only the past incumbents but possible
new men from abroad or from among the
politically persecuted categories, were ex-
amined by the Committees. The new Fac-
ulties were then proposed to Military
Government for approval. This procedure
gave the universities the initiative in the
matter, allowing them to simply omit
Nazi names from their lists of proposals.
Military Government then exercised a
mere veto-right. As far as candidates
from abroad went, the principle followed
was to pass all information about pos-
sible candidates to the universities but
to insist that no appointment could be
made unless specifically requested by a
German institution.

The principal problem on students was
selection of the most gifted and the most
deserving. There were on an average
four applicants for every vacancy. With
the opening of the other branches of the
universities in the course of the winter
the universities thus found themselves

--- Page 12 ---
in an emergency situation where selective
tests und interviews — a novelty in the
German practice — became absolutely
essential. Here again the way has been
left open for faculty initiative, with Mili-
tary Government exercising only a super-
visory checking function.

The greatest obstacle of all to the nor-
mal growth of academic freedom has
been the shortage of available funds ‘and
the confused state of most of the German
Educational Ministries. American Educa-
tional Officers have in some instances
had to.display more initiative in helping
the universities to get on their feet than
the German minister-

think of things in the way the Nazis
taught them. It is our job — our opport-
unity and our responsibility — to give
them the books and the teachers who can
help them to acquire a more balanced out-
look. The “dangers of German scientific
research” will fade provided a poisoned
political atmosphere is not allowed to de-
velop in which German science is once
again exploited for dangerous political
ends.

What can we do to help? First, we
ean continue to lend our full support to
those Germans who have had our confi-
dence over the past year, and have justi-

fied this confidence

ial officials them-
selves.

If we were to try
to summarize the
achievements of the
first year of occupa-
tion and the prob-
lems which lie ahead

Dr. E. Y. Hartshorne is the author of “German Uni-
versitiesand National Socialism" and "German
Youthand the Nazi Dream of Victory." He taught
at Harvard from 1936 to 1941, then served with the OSS,
OWI and US Group CC, coming overseas with the
Psychological Warfare Branch of AFHQ in September
1943. Since June 1945 he has been largely responsible
for supversion of the higher education program in the
US Zone, particularly in Greater Hesse.

by their good efforts.
We can avoid calling
the educational lead-
ers “Krauts” and
treating them as if
they were in the
same boats as the
Nazis we have dis-

one could say that

the patient, German Higher Educa-
tion, has been operated upon and
is now lying prostrate on the operat-
ing table. The negative side of the work
is over; the positive is just getting under
way. Whether the patient recovers or not
depends henceforward on what we can
do to help recovery, since therapy in the
field of education means in essence the
reestablishment of. fruitful intellectual
contacts between Germany and the “out-
side world.”

The principal fears which observers
have expressed about the German uni-
versities have centered around the alleged
“resurgent nationalism” of the students
and the proclivity of German scientists
to produce new and more terrible instru-
ments of war than even we ourselves! As
a majority of the students are veterans
of the Wehrmacht it is natural that they
should be proud of their country, even,
or perhaps especially, in defeat. Until
they learn better they will continue to

missed. We can give
them security in their houses and on
the streets, and help them to get the
teachers and especially the books they
need from abroad.

In short, we must endeavour to create
for these “higher schools of democracy”
whatever modicum of freedom is possible
within a society burdened by defeat and
military occupation. We must continue
at the same'time to be alert and be
sure we know at all times what is going
on; but above all we must not let our
suspicions stand in the way of a genuine
and generous effort to help. A recent
American book has well stated, with
reference to the German problem:

“One cannot simultaneously enslave,
and educate for freedom.”

The next two years will tell whether
we have understood this principle and
been able to apply it to the German uni-
versities, which once, in the last century
were the source of much of our own
American tradition of academic freedom.

--- Page 13 ---
MG Agencies Winding up
Denazification Affairs

al

New OMGUS Directive Prepares for Gradual Changeover to German
Civil Tribunals. Laender Already Setting Up Administrative Machinery.

MG will continue its normal denazi-
fication operations until 15 June 1946, by
which date German civil officials will
have assumed the bulk of denazification
work under the “Law for Liberation from
National Socialism and Militarism.” The
Denazification Review Boards at OMGUS
and Regional levels will wind up their
affairs on or about 1 June 1946, and the
German review boards under Law No. 8
will be discontinued by German author-
ities. Personnel and records of the Ger-
man Review Boards will be made avail-
able to the local Public Prosecutors.

The changeover from MG to German
civil officials will be a gradual process,
beginning on a local basis and being in-
creased’ as the German denazification
machinery demonstrates its ability to car-
ry out provisions of the law. After the
Germans have taken over the operation,
MG will continue its denazification ac-
tivities only with respect to Military Gov-
ernment and US Army employment and
to a limited number of key policy-making
or executive positions in government and
business.

Assumption by German authorities of
denazification operations is contained in
a comprehensive directive to MG offices
outlining their new duties and responsi-
bilities under the denazification law. The
directive embodies the results of almost
two months of work by MG and German
denazification officials in implementing
the new German law.

Under the new directive the two major
MG responsibilities with respect to the

10

German Law are, first, to cooperate in
every possible manner with the German
denazification agencies and officials, and
second, to exercise strict supervision and
control to assure proper administration.

Cooperation and control of German
operations by Military Government will
be carried out at all levels. However, most
corrective actions will be taken by the
Regional MG Offices through the Min-
isters of Political Liberation. It will con-
sist of receiving reports and case data
from the German officials, making inves-
tigations, scrutinizing decisions of the tri-
bunals and supervising enforcement of the
sanctions imposed by the tribunals. Em-
phasis is laid, however, on the judicial
and independent character of the tribu-
nals themselves so that direct interference
with their operations is prohibited by
MG.

Since the Denazification law was pro-
mulgated by the Minister Presidents of the
three Laender in the US Zone on 5
March, authorities entrusted with the re-
sponsibilites of administering the measure
have taken considerable steps to carry
out its provisions .

Many of the tribunals and prosecutors
already have been appointed, and com-
plete ordinances and directives covering
many aspects of the administration of the
law have been issued by German author-
ities with MG approval. The denazifica-
tion registration required by the Law
was completed throughout the US Zone
5 May 1946.

--- Page 14 ---
A ten-volume statistical handbook, the
first of its kind to appear since 1942 and
covering every phase of the economic and
industrial life of Germany, has just been
published by the Ministerial Collecting
Center of OMGUS.

The handbook was undertaken at the
request of the Economics Division of
OMGUS, by German statisticians employ-
ed by the Ministerial Collecting Center in
Firstenhagen near Kassel, in cooperation
with MCC offices at Bad Nauheim, Ber-
lin and Wildbad. The book is in mimeo-
graphed form and is not intended for
general distribution until a later date.
Statistical data in the handbook do not
necessarily coincide with statistics pre-
pared by MG or Allied Agencies.

A considerable part of the data, a por-
tion of which was gathered from the files
and records of former German agencies,
was never before published because of
the light it shed on the Nazi war effort.
The source of the new handbook included
documents which were found by Army
Intelligence teams in farms, castles, bomb-
ed-out buildings, mine shafts, under-

11

160 Tons of Captured Documents Source of Digest
Compiled by OMGUS Ministerial Collecting Center

ground storehouses and even wells. More
than 160 tons of documents were studied
and catalogued in preparation of the
book, which began in November 1945.

The Statistical Handbook is divided
into five parts as follows: (1) Population
and Statistics; (2) Food, Agriculture and
Forests; (3) Industry and Handicraft;
(4) Internal and Foreign Trade, and (5)
Transportation, Prices, Wages, Banking
and Finance, Education and Elections.

The population statistics are based on
the census of 1933 and 1939, and are
given as of the 1937 boundaries of Ger-
many by Zones, laender and provinces.
The latest statistics of the Zone are
shown as of December, 1945.

For the purpose of determining the in-
ternal migration, population data are giv-
en as of the beginning of 1943 and the
beginning of 1945 and are based on the
number of food ration cards issued by
the regional Food Offices (Landesernah-
rungsdémter). The number of dwellings
according to zones and administrative
districts, based on the 1939 census, are
shown for the first time. Employment

--- Page 15 ---
data for 1939 to 1944 which, for military
reasons, were kept secret, will be found
in this section. Of special interest is the
breakdown of employment of foreign lab-
or and war prisoners. Employment sta-
tistics compiled from health insurance rec-
ords are given from 1932 to 1944.

The largest part of the handbook is
devoted to agriculture. Since the period
covered usually is from 1939 to 1944,
most of the data was never published
before. Acreages
under cultivation
are given by zones
from 1934 to 1938
which show a
comparative de-
velopment of land
utilization prior to the war. Production of
farm products are given annually from
1928 to 1944. The animal population are
shown by kind according to regions from
1938 to 1943. Dairy production and con-
sumption are given by provinces and Lin-
der annually from 1932 to 1944. Salient
data on consumption of food products are
given from 1932 to 1939 and for some
commodities during the war years. Note-
worthy are the tables showing the devel-
opment of food rations during the war
which heretofore were not included in
the “Statistische Jahrbuch.”

‘Data relating to aggregate employment,
wages, value of raw materials used in
manufacture and gross and net product
of German industries were prepared on
the basis of the industrial production
of 1936. This census — the most compre-
hensive of German industries — was
used as a basis in the planning of the
armament program and the war economy
in Germany. The number of industrial
establishments based on the census of
1939 include handicraft and small works-
hops. From the records of the Reichs
Group Industry and the Economic Groups
(Wirtschaftsgruppen), it was possible to
compile data of employment and gross

12

sales in manufacturing industries by re-
gions instead of only for the total of Ger-
many. ;

Employment and gross sales by spec-
ified industries and by zones are shown
as of May and March 1944 respectively.
Of current interest are tables 9 to 12
showing the value of imdustrial output
going into export by zones based on 1936
production. The annual index of indus-
trial production covers the period up to
1939. After the outbreak of the war,
changes in industrial activity made im-
possible a continuation of this index.

The industrial statistical tables in Sec-
tions 1 and 2 are compilations of data
collected mainly by economic groups and
other agencies. The personnel of these
organizations have not
only supplied the data
but also have participat-
ed in the actual prepara-
tion of tables for inclu-
sion in the Handbook.
Through the services of these industrial
specialists it was possible to compile
comprehensive data of German industries
covering not only employment and sales,
but also consumption of raw materials
and production of manufactured goods.
The tables relating to production include
all years from 1932 to 1944; thus the
peacetime as well as the war industrial
potential of Germany are shown.

Section 1 of “Industry and Handicraft”
contains data relating to mining, metallic
industries and chemicals. The data u-
sually are broken down by products and
cover the period up to 1944. Section 2
contains data relating to wood products,
stones and earths, textile, leather and
food products. Data of residential build-
ing are given by regions from 1933 to
1948. The production of principal food ©
products are given annually from 1928 to
1944. The data relating to electricity and
gas were obtained to a large extent from

(Continued on page 18)

--- Page 16 ---
MG MOVES TO PREVENT

BAVARIAN FOOD HOARDING

Military Government has joined forces
with the Bavarian Food Ministry in a
land-wide, all-out drive to collect every
available ounce of food from farms in
Bavaria.

In a recent directive to all its officers
in the field the OMG for Bavaria order-
ed the pressure be put on all German
officials to get farmers to deliver all food
in excess of what is allowed them for
self-sustenance and planting purposes. In
addition, each MG Detachment Command-
er has been instructed to have military
personnel inspect his area to uncover
hoarding of food.

The Food Ministry has 340 inspectors
in the field each day checking Bavaria’s
650,000 farms for available food for mar-
ket. Regardless of original delivery quo-
tas set for each farm, all food in excess
of what farmers actually need for plant-
ing or self-supply must be delivered to
markets. Where it is discovered that
farmers have held back food over and
‘above their own needs, the stocks will
be confiscated and the offender is liable
to trial before Military Government or
German courts. Agriculture officers esti-
‘mate however, that the amount of food
thus hoarded is not a serious factor
in the general picture.

If an American MP was sent to each
individual farm in Bavaria and made a
thorough search, the total of grain re-
covered would not cut import require-
ments substantially, agriculture officials
estimated. Perhaps 15,000 tons, or about
60 pounds per farmer could be thus re-
captured. Fear of monetary devaluation
rather than blackmarket interests was

13

given as the primary reason for farmer’s
withholding food from markets.

Agriculture officials consider the cur-.
rent deliveries of grain good in view of
the adverse cultivation conditions. Up to
tthe end of March, 64 percent of the
quota had been delivered. This compares
favorably with that collected by the Na-
zis with their highly centralized enforce-
ment agency. In many instances quotas
were set higher by MG than by the Nazis.

The potato situation is better, with an
estimated 91 percent, or approximately
1,550,000 tons, expected to be delivered
through 1 June. This is equal to the
average deliveries made since 1942, when
potatoes were first rationed.

The shortage of fertilizer and farm
machinery has been the greatest handi-
cap to food production. During the past
year, only 10 percent of Bavaria’s fer-
tilizer requirements was available, which
seriously weakened productivity of aland
that has been farmed for centuries. Short-
age of Ruhr coal was the primary factor
in curtailing fertilizer output. However,
Bavaria’s one large fertilizer plant, the
nitrate factory at Trostberg, has been
given highest priority on Ruhr exports.

The bread grain outlook for next year
is poor. Agriculture experts said the dry-
est Bavarian spring in 50 years has de-
‘pressed hopes for a bumper crop, and if
ample rain does not fall in 30 days, the
grain harvest will be reduced by 50 per-
cent. Some farmers have plowed up grain
fields and sowed potatoes, so that an
increase in next year’s potato supply is
expected. Agriculture officials expect
mext years food stocks to be about the

(Continued on page 20)

--- Page 17 ---
General

Liquidation of German Military
And Nazi Monuments Ordered

The destruction by 1 January 1947
of all existing German military and Nazi
memorials and the liquidation of muse-
ums have been directed by the Coordin-
ating Committee of the Allied Control
Council.

Planning, designing, erection, installa-
tion, posting or other display of any
monument, memorial, poster, statue, ed-
ifice, street or highway name marker,
emblem, tablet or insignia which tends
to glorify war, preserve militarism, or to
commemorate the Nazi Party are all for-
bidden. At the same time, the order pro-
hibits the functioning of military muse-
ums and exhibitions; the erection, instal-
lation: or posting or other display on a
building or other structure, and the re-
opening of military museums and exhibi-
tions.

An exception may be made for tomb-
stones erected at places where members
of regular formations died on the field
of battle. In addition, an object of es-
sential public utility or of great achitect-
ural value should not be destroyed or
otherwise liquidated when the purpose
of the directive can be achieved either
by the removal of the objectionable parts
or by some other alternative constituting
_an effective eradication of its memorial
character.

The terms “military” and “militarism”
used in the directive refer to warlike
activities subsequent to 1 August 1942,
whether on land, sea or in the air, and to
persons, organizations and institutions
directly associated with such activities.

14

Responsible local German officials in
each of the four occupied zones of Ger-
many will be designated to compile com-
plete lists of memorials in their juris-
diction which are banned by the direct-
ive. In the event the German officials
consider an object of exceptional artistic
value, they may request an exception to
the requirements established by the dir-
ective. Such requests will be submitted
to the appropriate military athorities for

_ consideration by the Zone Commander.

Laenderrat Proposals

Further action in connection with Ger-
man food rationing came up for discus-
sion at the eighth meeting of the Laender-
rat (German Council of States), held in
Stuttgart early in this months.

At the same time, the’ council, which
coordinates all matters of MG admin-
istration extending beyond more thanone
state in the US Zone, made recommenda-
tions to OMGUS on a number of other
matters, including the following:

Establishment of a supervisory
agency for private insurance com-
panies in the US Zone.

An agreement between the three
States (Laender) of the US Zone
covering administration and opera-
tion of railroads in the areas.

Phases of a proposed program for
exchange of German nationals in the
US Zone who originally lived in what
is now the Russuian Zone and vice
versa.

--- Page 18 ---
Nazi and Militarist Literature

The Coordinating Committee at its
fifty-fourth meeting in Berlin signed an
order designed to eradicate in-all forms
Fascist, Militarist and Anti-Democratic
ideas in Germany through the confisca-
tion of Nazi literature and other media
of propaganda.

Under the provisions of the order,own-
ers of circulating libraries, bookshops,
and publishing houses, all former state
and municipal libraries, and directors or
heads of universities, scientific acade-
mies, secondary and elementary schools
must hand over to the Military Com-
mandants Nazi and military propaganda
in their possession.

Text book, magazines, newspaper files
and films containing Nazi “racial”
theories and other propaganda, as well
as instructions, maps and diagrams used
for military training of troops are in-
cluded in the list of material to be sur-
rendered to Military. Zone Commanders
for destruction. Holders of this material,
Burgomeisters and local authorities are
responsible for complying with the pro-
visions of the order.

Housing Functions Transferred
The Housing Branch of the Manpower
Division, OMGUS, ceased to exist on
13 May 1946. All duties and responsibili-
ties of the Branch have now been turned

over to the Labor Standards Branch of .

the same Division.

Civil Service Transfers

President Truman has issued an execu-
tive order authorizing United States civil
service and war service employees to
transfer to any international organiza-
tion in which the United States parti-
cipates without losing their status as
government employees.

The order states that classified em-
ployees, or those attaining such status
while in the empioy of international or-
ganizations, shall be returned to their

15

former United States Government posi-
tions if terminated within three years
of transfer.

More Items for Export

Two million bottles of top quality Ger-
man wine and champagne are among the
items which will soon be available for
export from the US Zone of Germany, it
was announced today by OMGUS. The
wine is of 1943 and 1944 vintage with
a small amount of older date. Liebfrauen-
milch, Ruedesheimer Riesling and Stein-
berger are some of the well known
brands which will be available.

MG officials also expressed the hope
that large scale production could soon
be attained for the manufacture and ex-
port of the world-famous Bavarian china-
ware. The plants of the Rosenthal AG
are expected to provide the largest por-
tion of the exports of fine china. If es-
sential raw materials can be obtained,
precision instruments will be a large
export item during the coming year.

Interzonal Sales

A transaction involving the purchase
in the Russian Zone of refined sugar,
molasses and labaratory glassware, and
in addition 7,000 meters of staves which
will ease the critical shortage in barrels
for shipping fish into the American area
of occupation, has just been announced
by OMGUS.

The transaction calls for the sale of
cattle, draft oxen and yeast extract,
aggregating approximately RM 20,000,000
in value, to German purchasers in the .
Russian Zone. It was emphasized that
a reduction in the surplus cattle popula-
tion of the American Zone is a necessary
food conversation measure, since cattle
are competitors with humans in grain
consumption.

Provision is also made for the pur-
chase of vegetable, sugar beet and fodder
seed from German farms in the Russian
Zone.

--- Page 19 ---
1946 LEIPZIG FAIR/IN

Germans from all over the country streamed through the entrance
gates of the first peacetime Leipzig Fair held from 8 to 12 May 1946

--- Page 20 ---
| The double M, traditional symbol of the Leipzig
Fair, stands for Muster Messe (Sample Fair).

Formerly one of Germany's greatest displays of

@0@e@ technical and consumer products, the Fair was

reopened for the first time since 1940.

Farm implements
on display

1 goods reappear

A prospective buyer from the British Zone is
very much interested in the “Arwa” stockings

‘brick cleaning machine

New clothing is under way

--- Page 21 ---
(Continued from page 12)
records which were salvaged from a
flooded mine shaft in the Harz region.

The number of persons employed in
commerce, given in “Internal and Foreign
Trade,” was compiled on the basis of
the industrial census of 1939 and 1939.
A comparative table of com-
mercial establishments show-
ing business turnover, nation-
al income and income of
gainfully employed is given
for the period 1924 to 1941. Foreign trade
data are shown by volume and value for
the years 1928—1944. The adjusted value
of imports and exports are based on the
1939 price level. All commodities that
entered into foreign trade are classified
into 140 groups. Data relating to foreign
trade are also shown by countries since
1928 to 1944. For purposes of reference
the principal commodities are given by
@ountries of origin or destination annual-
ly from 1928 to 1943.

In the transportation section are data
relating to railways, inland waterways,
merchant vessels, foreign and intercoastal
shipping, freight loading,
motor vehicles, roads and
- highways and civil aero-
nauties. The tourist trade
is shown only up to 1949.
Data relating to post and communication
are given until 1943.

The price section contains indices of
wholesale prices, prices of principal man-
ufactured products, cost of construction
and cost of living. Wholesale prices of
29 commodities are presented in taVular
form.

Hourly wage rates of gainfully em-
ployed are.given annually from 1928 to
1943. Weekly wages of labor and monthly
salaries of “white collar workers are
shown annually from 1928 to 1942. The
daily wages and annual income of work-
ers engaged in coal mining are shown
by the type of work and by mining dis-
tricts from 1930 to 1943. The national
index of wages is given annually from
1928 to 1942.

Figures on currency in circulation were
compiled quarterly from 1928 to 1945.
Balances of banks and saving institu-
tions were prepared for the period 1928
to 1939. The assets and li-
abilities of Land and Com-
» mercial Banks are shown
annually from 1928 to 1940.

“~~ Number and value of stocks
listed on the Berlin Stock Excharge are
given annually from 1928 to 1943. The
index of prices of stocks and bonds trad-
ed is shown by groups from 1928 to
1943. A summary table shows assets and
liabilities of all corporations listed on
the exchanges from 1928 to 1940.

Data relating to the annual national
income were compiled by sources of in-
come and regions for specified years from
1928 to 1941. .

Revenues of the national, state and
municipal govenments are given for the
fiscal year 1937-1938 and total revenues
are given annually from 1928 to 1940.
Public expenditures are shown annually
from 1928 to 1938. Tax receipts prior
to the war, wherever possible, were com-
piled by regions. Data relating to public
debts cover the period 1928 to 1940 and
Reich Debts to 1944.

18

--- Page 22 ---
German Reactions

LICENSED PRESS VIEWS
DEINDUSTRIALIZATION LAW

The licensed press in the US Occupa-
tion Zone received the
Council’s Deindustrialization Law. with
a good deal of sobriety, according to a
survey just released by OMGUS.

Application and consequences of the.

law were viewed with a balance of op-
timism: and pessimism. A great many
editorial commentators and | economic
writers expressed the hope that the law
would be subject to future revision, stress-
ing the fact that the law is based on at
least two uncertain assumptions: Ger-
many’s economic unity and the mainte-
nance of her present western. boundaries.
While the gravity of the law for Ger-
many’s economic future was invariably
emphasized, most newspapers articles
dealing with the law ended on a tone of
encouragement and with appeals to sum-
mon the best of Germany’s organizational
and industrial energy to overcome the
critical period of the next few years.

The Rhein-Neckar Zeitung (Heidelberg,
10 April) saw in the new Deindustrializa-
tion Law a chance for a planned economy
and socialism. “The plan must be thought
of as demand for action. The determin-
ing factor for Germany’s future produc-
tion will be public planning instead of
private enterprise. The new law necess-
itates a central government which con-
trols German manpower. The worker,
the farmer and the unions must think of
their work as a service to the people.
The period of liberalism has come to an
end..The political parties must unite for
cooperation.”

Allied Control

19

The economic expert of the Sueddeut-
sche Zeitung (Munich, 19 April) analyzed
the consequences of the law for Bavarian
industry. “It is feared that the control
plan may lead to a state of perennial
shortages. Bavaria, however, will be in
a relatively favorable condition because
it has more light than heavy industry.
The prospects of precision instruments
and porcelain are not too bad. Porce-
lain and glass manufacturing can be
developed rather freely within the limi-
tations of raw materials it must
be hoped that in the interest of European
economy the-plan will be. subject to
revision.”

DECREASED STANDARD. OF LIVING

Summing up his forecasts for Ger-
many’s economic future, the same writer
stated on 12 April: “The rigorous restric-
tion of industrial production and_ the
changeover from heavy to light industry
will cause unemployment in many
districts and a decrease in the standard
of living. Despite the shock produced
by the control plan, an organic develop-
ment out of the present unnatural state
of affairs. can be brought about. The
Allies will make Germany economically
powerless so that she will be unable to
launch upon political adventures and, at
the same time, will give her a chance
gradually to adjust her economy to
world conditions.”

The Hessische’ Nachrichten (Kassel, 20
April) was one of many newspapers
which found support of their views in
some statements in the London “Sunday

--- Page 23 ---
Observer” and the “Manchester Guardian”:
“The living standard of 1932 (when about
seven million were unemployed) pro-
bably cannot be attained. Furthermore,
a perpetual center of unemployment in
the heart of Europe would affect Euro-
pean economy as a whole. We believe no
more in the ultimate execution of the
plan than the “Observer” and the “Man-
chester Guardian,” which have expressed
their doubts about the possibility and
desirability of applying the law.”

The Stuttgarter Zeitung (20 April)
commented upon the serious social con-
sequences brought about by unemploy-
ment and upheaval in the employment
situation. The writer stressed the fact
that the fluctations of population during
the last decade have led to a general dis-
integration of the social order the
dangers of which ought not to be mini-
mized. The economically frustrated mass-
es will increase enormously and may
become the breeding grounds for unpleas-
ant surprises. But, so the writer argues
more hopefully, the Deindustrialization
Law is only a general framework into
which a concrete German control plan
has to be built.

The Frankfurter Rundschau (9 April)
declared that the new plan is based upon
three facts: the maintenance of Ger-
many’s western boundaries, her economic
unity and a population of 66'/, million
people. Germany’s exports can only pay
for her imports if the demands of the
four different zones are adjusted and
coordinated by a central government.
General Draper (Director OMGUS Eco-
nomics Division) the paper stated, declar-
ed at a press conference that German
industrial vitality and inventive genius
should not be underrated. This state-
ment ought to provide Germans with a
new stimulus for energetic reconstruc-
tion and the attainment of a fair stan-
dard of living, the paper concluded.

The Frankfurter Rundschau then em-
phsazid the fact that Germany recovered
quickly after the debacle of 1918. “Ger-
many points with pride to the intelligence
and diligence of her workers and scien-
tists. We shall have to prove to the
world that we are able to overcome the
collapse of 1945 — which hit many coun-
tries worse than us — by working peace-
fully towards reconstruction. We can do
it. We only have to will it.”

(Continued from page 13)
same as this years with little hope for an
overall increase in production.

Quotas for dairy and meat products in
which Bavaria is rich have been met with-
out undue difficulty. Exports of these
products are made to Berlin and the other

Laender in the US Zone, when stocks
there are near depletion. Approximately
1000 tons of meat are shipped monthly to
Berlin and 23,000 tons of potatoes will
be delivered in Berlin in May, while
4,000,000 eggs have been exported to
Wirttemberg-Baden.

20

--- Page 24 ---
Dress andRadioComments

“HUNGER WILL NOT WAIT”

An editorial in The New York Times
entitled “Hunger Will Not Wait” called
on the administration, the people of the
nation as whole and individual communi-
ties — specifically New York — to carry
out more efficient and far-reaching food
saving programs to alleviate hunger in
world famine areas.

The Times said: “The Nation is not
doing what it could do and should do to
fight the worst famine in modern history.

“The Government did take measures
.. but nothing yet done has been enough,
we are manifestly not living up to our
‘solemm obligation.’ (As President Tru-
man termed it). — this is mot because
‘the heart of America’ is not warm ...
it is largely because the individual Ameri-
can, with the exception of those in the
business of processing food, has not
known what to do. There has been a
failure of clear thinking and of leader-
ship. There has been a failure of accurate
information ....

“Steps already taken will produce
some results .. . yet it is quite clear that
nothing less than change in our national
eating habits will save food that will
save lives.

“An individual may ask how much
good he can do by giving or going
without some food. It is not much. But
a whole community, a whole nation, giv-
ing and going without some food, may
turn the tide of life and death for thou-
sands and millions .. .

“Some world issues can be discussed
at leisure. This one cannot. Hunger does

21

not wait. This crisis is our opportunity
to prove that we are not talking plati-
tudes when we say we believe in world
peace and world neighborliness. These
are our neighbors. They are hungry. A
wave of good-will and hope will sweep the
world if we share with them now. It is
time for leadership in this city and in
the nation to turn from lesser things and
show us how to do it.”

Other United States newspapers, in
recent editorials on the food situation,
brought up the point that the famine
crisis may well be long-term and meas-
ures should therefore be taken now to
prepare for continuing emergency.

The Christian Science Monitor: “The
Department of Agriculture . .. has esti-
mated it will take at least five years to
restore European food préduction. All
available expert information on supply
and demand states the food problem. to
be a long-range one, with another crisis
predicted for next spring if ample meas-
ures are not taken.

“Humanity demands that these meas-
ures must be forthcoming, however dras-
tic the requirements.”

The New York Herald Tribune: “It
is imperative that we are prepared for
what the future may bring. Nations must
look now beyond July, when this year’s
emergency should be temporarily eased. ;

“President Truman stated that he will
not hesitate to order food rationing here
in the event of disastrous crop failures

. rationing was ruled out as means of

--- Page 25 ---
increasing our aid to famine-stricken
countries in the present crisis because
it could not be put into operation quickly
enough. The Office of Price Administra-
tion says that ration books cannot be
printed, ration boards reassembled, un-
der four months .....

“World food reserves will have
reached bottom, experts tell us, by next
July. Surely wisdom dictates that this
nation have a program ready for an
eventuality, freak of wind. or weather,
that none can foresee but that none dares
count out if rationing is needed far that
program.”

Herbert Hoover at a press confeence,
expressed doubt as to whether any of
the 22 countries which he and his mission
visited has more than 30-days supply of
food-stuffs on hand. The big problem,
therefore, he added, is to “maintain a
stream of supplies to those countries.
If that can be done,” he said, “there will
be no mass starvation in any of them,”
although there may be individual instances.

M. Hoover said that President Tru-
man gave full approval to the survey re-
port. The amounts which have been fixed
in his report as minimum food require-
ments of countries visited were approved,

- with several exceptions, which he declin-
ed to name, by the governments in
question.

Asked whether he tought voluntary
measures in the United States would be
sufficient or whether more drastic means
should be used to help meet the current
food situation, Mr. Hoover said he
thought more could be secured though
voluntary measures then any other way.
He added, “the machinery behind the pres-
ent voluntary measures is very effec-
tive.” Mr. Hoover expressed the opinion

- that the United States “has done very
well. In this food year it will have ship-
ped 450 million bushels of wheat to the
world.” That is the greatest export of
food ever accomplished in history. He
added, “please bear in mind that the

22

United States does not bear the total
responsibility for solving the famine. Re-
sponsibility rests also on other nations
to provide their share of relief food.”

Mr. Hoover also noted that Russia is
sending 500,000 tons of wheat and bar-
ley to France although not all of it
will arrive during the shortage period.

Concerning black market operations
abroad in foodstuffs intended for relief
purposes, Mr. Hoover said his mission
found only a minimum amount of such
operations and that he did not think the
total “would make a dent” in figures
which have been estimated for needs in
countries to which supplies are being
are being sent.

UNNRA FOOD PROGRAM

UNNRA Director General, Fiorello
LaGuardia, recommended to the 48-na-
tion UNNRA Council, that one broad
international agency “with adequate po-
wers to make and implement allocations
on an equitable basis” be set up to cope
with the critical food situation.

After presenting a report on food cris-
is developments since the fourth session
of the UNNRA Council at Atlantic City
in March, LaGuardia told the Council
that material now presented leads to
“same conclusions” that had been pre-
viously reached by his predecessor, Her-
bert Lehman, namely, that .“UNNRA’s
share (of world food supplies) must be
substantially increased” and that avail-
able food must be more equitably dis-
tributed if starvation in Europe during
crucial spring and summer months is to
be prevented. He said only if he is given
commitments for the remainder of 1946 can
he possibly “prevent a chaotic food situa-
tion during months between now and
next harvest.” At the present time, “Not
only are the quantities of food available
to UNNRA grossly inadequate, but
UNNRA: does not know even a month
ahead what it can count on,” he said.

--- Page 26 ---
LaGuardia made the following two. re-
commendations for the consideration of
the Council:

“That all governments concerned be
called upon to establish for the duration
of the food crisis one broad international
agency with adequate powers to make
and implement allocations on an equi-
table basis of grain and all other basic
foods in short supply.

“That for the duration of the present
food crisis all purchases of grain and
other basic foods in short supply be coor-
<dinated in a manner which will preclude
competitive buying and speculative sell-
ing.”

TO AVOID REVOLUTION |

“Instead of receiving goods from our
late’ enemies ... we are sending them
goods,” notes Ethel Thornbury in the
magazine Tomorrow “In order to keep
their diet up ... we are shipping them
food. And in order to keep essential
goods moving, we are supplying railroad
equipment. We are doing this because
we wish ‘to avoid revolutions in the oc-
cupied countries, and to prevent epi-
demics.”

LONG-RANGE POLICY,

Julian Bach, Jr... Former infantry
lieutenant and roving correspondent in
‘Europe after the war (CBS-In My Opin-
ion): “What should our long-range po-
licy of Occupation be? I do not believe
that mass unemployment and starvation
produce good -democrats. Lack of food
and lack of work are more likely to
produce bitterness, resentment and a new
Hitler. At the same time within Ger-
many our own:Army of Occupation must
be rigorously retrained for the job at

_ hand. Its attitude must become both. pro-
fessional. and constant. It: does no good
to treat the German like swine one day
and like friends the next. Either we frat-
-ernize; or we do not fraternize. Either
we: shake hands; or we do not shake

23

hands with German officials. Our attitude
at present is to blow hot and cold on
the hour every hour.”

_ TRAGEDY OF JEWISH DPs .
Among excerpts from. the 40,000-word

main report of the Anglo-American Com-

mittee on of Inquiry on Palestine, PM
includes the following: “We were deeply
impressed by the tragedy of the situa-
tion of these Jewish survivors in the
(DP) centers and by the tragedy of their
purposeless existence. Many months have
passed since they were freed from Nazi
oppression and brutality, but they them-
selves feel that they are as far as ever
from restoration to normal life.

“We consider that these men, women
and children have a moral claim on the
civilized world ... Even though many
might be glad to join relatives and
friends in other countries, the doors of
those countries at present appear to be
closed to them. They are resentful be-
cause they are prevented from going to
Palestine.”

WORLD VIEW NEEDED
- In an article in The New York Times
Pearl Buck suggests letting America take

‘the lead in world action in terms of

supplying world needs. She feels that
the people of the world aré all. waiting
to take part in a new cooperative life. A
new -and--pratical idealism should come
from. the American mind, and idealism bas-
ed on the world point of view first and last
and always in all things. If the United
States can set up techniques for feeding
the world’s hungry, for housing. the
world’s shelterless, for industrial devel-
opment of the world’s resources, for
providing schools for the world’s ignor-

ant, power politics will die overnight.

YOUNGER GENERATION
Writing about the problems connected
with the rescue of the younger genera-
tion. set adrift in the War, Josephine
Ripley of The Christian Science Monitor

--- Page 27 ---
feels that far wider recognition and en-
dorsement should be given the resolution
adopted by the National Commission on
Children in Wartime, a Government-spo-
sored organization of educational and
welfare authorities in the United States.
Children are important people — not
only to their immediate families, but to
their nation and to the world. There is
ungent need for the tender rehabilitation
of the younger generation which has suf
fered so cruelly both directly and in-
directly, concludes Miss Ripley.

Raymond Daniel, The New York
Times: “The OMG for Bavaria announced
that Friedrich Schaeffer, chairman of the
Munich branch of the Christian Social
Union, had been forbidden to vote, to
be a member of a political party or to
run for office as a ‘Nazi sympathizer
and supporter of militarism.’

“Investigation of Schaeffer since his re-
moval convinced MG officials, that in
his writings, speeches and activities as
leader of the Bavarian Peoples Party
under the Weimar Republic, Schaeffer
“consistently aligned himself with the
National Socialists and Militarists.”
After 1933, the records showed, the Nazis
regarded Schaeffer as the deposed chief
of a sympathetic movement and not as
an anti-Nazi.”

Dana Adam Schmidt in The New
York Times “The general political shift
in the recent county council elections ap-
peared to have been slightly to the Right
although the Communists gained at most
points by comparison with the January
elections.

“At the Right wing extreme the Liberal
Democratic party, still a small faction
in the United States zone, showed gains,
especially in Greater Hesse.

“In Bavaria the Social Democrats and
in Greater Hesse the Christian Social
Union improved their relative positions
over the January results, while in Baden
the party line-up remained almost un-
changed.

24

“The explanation offered by buerger-
meisters in a dozen villages and small
towns near Frankfurt, was mainly that
these were political elections in which
the voters had to choose between party
tickets and many Germans had not yet
made up their minds about party affilia-
tion. By contrast the January elections
were for well-known local personalities
in the smallest communities.”

GUARD GERMANY

“The suggested qudripartite pact may
require some modifications. In its broad
principle, however, it appears to offer
many safeguards for the future peace
of the world,” Observes The Philadel-
phia Inquirer.

“It cannot be a cure-all for the ills of
the earth. On paper it has the form of
a long-range commitment to our late war
Allies. It should be studied by Americans
for its worth as a commitment to the
next generation of our sons and daugh-
ters.

“They must not be doomed to deal
with another Tojo, or another Hitler.”

MENACE TO PEACE

Sen. Elbert Thomas (NBC-Our Foreign
Policy: “We’ve learned that  three-
quarters of the wartime power of Ger-
man industry remains relatively intact
despite our bombings. German war in-
dustry could be restored in a period of
12 to 18 months. We are making some
headway in this (removing Nazis from
positions of control); but as long as
the old guard of German industrialists
remain — the group who supported Hit-
ler — German heavy industry will be a
menace to the peace of the world ...
We’ve got to be determined to carry this
through, which means we must maintain
strong Occupation Forces in Germany.
We have a tremendous job of re-education
to do in Germany. It will be much more
difficult than in Japan, in my opinion.”

--- Page 28 ---
GLOOMY PICTURE

Leif Eid (NBC): “It is feared that as
the pangs of hunger grow sharper Ger-
man civilian morale will drop accordingly
and spread its evil into our Occupation
Forces, and that fear probably is justi-
fied... It’s hard to believe that strict
discipline alope is the answer to the
evil that Adolf Hitler left behind him in
ruined Germany. We seem to be caught
in an impossible situation. If Germany,
or even Japan, were the only food prob-
lems, we could probably get civilian Ger-
many on a going basis again by giving
our enemy some of the discipline of work
and begin building their self-respect
through productive work; but the quarter-
ing of Germany, with Americans controll-
ing only the most scenic part of Ger-
many, doesn’t give our Army much of a
chance to make its Zone self-supporting.
And, with demands on our food and
Canadian food from Allies who are starv-
ing as a result of German and Japanese
aggressive war, our food shipments to
Germany will undoubtedly drop below
what the General (McNarney) calls the
disease-and-unrest point.”

WELL-PAID VOLUNTEERS

John B Kennedy (ABC): “The point has
been made in Congress, as it has been
amply demonstrated in military history,
that the most effective garrison or Army
of Occupation in a foreign country is one
of volunteers, well-paid volunteers who
agree to be exiled for a specific time and
for a specific purpose. No other kind of
Army of Occupation has ever before been
known to be contented or efficient.”

RE-EDUCATION IS SLOW

Elmer Davis (ABC): “It can certainly be
said that this result (victories by con-
servatives in both Japan and Germany)
shows that we haven’t made much pro-
gess in the re-education of our late en-
emies; but after all we have been at work
only a year in Germany and only eight

25

months in Japan — too short a time. to
undo the indoctrination of 75 years. May-
be, it is hoped, that the practice of self-
government, of free elections, will help
along with that re-education, and it can
be hoped that maybe the Germans and
the Japanese will be impressed by the
fairness of our Armies of Occupation.
Certainly, it is not too encouraging that
in both countries the majority of the
voters seem to prefer parties whose chief
appeal is to the memory of the past rather
than to any hope for the future.”

LONG, LONG OCCUPATION

Cecil Brown (MBS): “This report (dis-
patch to “The New York Times”) on
the state of mind at the University of
Munich is worth remembering because it
is typical of the German attitude. We are
kidding ourselves if we think that there
is fertile ground for democracy in Ger-
many now. We are sabotaging our own
peace if we think that the Germans can
reform themselves in anything under sev-
eral generations — that is American con-
trol must remain in Germany for many,
many years to come.”

INTERNAL CONTRADICTIONS

Albert Warner (MBS): “The result
of the first important German elec-
tion in the American-held Zone of Ger-
many shows a victory for the conserva-
tives. Such elections are now assurance
of the type of elections or results which
might come when foreign troops are re-
moved. A fiery leader can sweep away
in a twinkling the democranic controls
and processes built up in the past, espec-
ially if the people are nursing a resent-
ment. That again stressed the import-
ance of a basic education — the forma-
tion of habits of mind which is now being
directed by American policy in our Zone.
But even ten years of education must be
balanced against total environment creat-
ed over hundreds of years. The swastika
was flying at several points yesterday
until it was removed. It is an anomaly

--- Page 29 ---
that one year after Germany collapsed
there are still camps in Germany for
Jews. Undoubtedly the motive for the
camps is humanitarian; but the segrega-
tion of the Jews within them must be a
constant reminder to the inmate of the
concentration camps of the Hitler period
and to the local German population that
they continue to be a people set apart.”

THE BYRNES PLAN

Gabriel Heatter (MBS): “It’s a bold
dynamic move (Sec. Byrnes’ call to Allies
for 25-year mutual assistance pact to
watch and inspect Germany so as to pre-
vent any war-making efforts) to cut away
all the individual fears and the apprehen-
sions — all the individual demands for
frontiers and extra territories which
many nations, large and small, are bound
to make, saying we’ve got to have this
or that in case Germany should march
again. This would guarantee everybody
that Germany could never march again.”

‘MEA MAXIMA CULPA

Philadelphia Inquirer: “A Nazi leader
with a sense of guilt for the atrocities
committed in Hitler’s name has at last
made his appearance at the Nuremberg
trials, in the person of Hans Frank,
former German governor of Poland.

“Frank is in refreshing contrast to his
fellows by confessing openly that ‘I feel
terrible guilt within me for the atroc-
ities of the Nazi regime.’ >

“Absence of shame and remorse for
these atrocities has added to the task of
remaking Germany. Frank’s testimony is
just a straw in the wind, perhaps, but
a hopeful one. Getting the Germans
steered in a new direction can be helped

by their own recognition that their form-
er course was all wrong.

“But one war criminal’s plea of guilt
is not enough to sway the court from
its objective of bringing the Nazis to
justice for their horrible crimes against
humanity. For these monsters there can
be no possible leniency.”

EVERYONE'S WEARING ODs

W. W. Chaplin (NBC): “The American
Army uniform is about the most widely
distributed garment in the world. I’ve
watched parades in Paris where at least
half the French soldiers were wearing
GI uniforms. I’ve seen the DP’s of a
dozen countries, the Displaced People, in
camps and tramping the avenues and
autobahns of Europe in doughboy olive
drab, and I have been served in over-
seas Army messes by soldiers whom I
took for Americans until they turned,
and I saw the little white letters, PW,
prisoner of war, painted on the seat of
their pants. Crime committed by men in
American uniforms is not positive proof
of crime committed by Americans. Gen.
McNarney’s curfew is a good test to
find out who the majority of the unruly
really are.”

THEY ALL DO IT

John B. Kennedy (ABC) : “Gen. McNarn-
ey knows, as even the tough Nazis
found out, that an occupation army away
from home, especially like the American,
is bound to fraternize. There is one solu-
tion, and that is fairly quick rotation in
Occupation Forces so that new men com-
ing in are on their way out before they
have too much opportunity to desire to
soften toward the people they are sup-
posed to police.”

26

--- Page 30 ---
Station List

Military Government Elements

UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER -

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Joseph McNarney

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, US

Office of
Mil Gov for
Germany, US Berlin

Office of Mil Gov
for Wirttemberg-
Baden Stuttgart

Hq 1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart

Hq & Sv Co 1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart

1st Mobile Maint Plat Zuffenhausen

Hq 1st MG Med Gp Stuttgart
Wirttemberg

E-1 Stuttgart

F-10 Stuttgart

F-11 Ulm

G- Sblingen

G-22 Crailsheim

G-23 Esslingen

G-24 Gmin

G-25 Gdppingen

G-26 Schwabisch Hall

G-27 Heidenheim

G-28 Heilbronn

G-29 Ludwigsburg

G-30 Waiblingen

H-50 Backnang

H-52 Kanzelsau

H-53 Leonberg

H-54 Bad Mergentheim

H-55 Nartingen

H-56 Ohringen

H-58 Vaihingen
Landesbezirk North Baden

F-16 Mannheim

G-43 Heidelberg

G-46 Pforzheim

G-47 Karlsruhe

H-87 Bruchsal

H-89 Buchen

H-90 Mosbach

H-91 Tauberbischofsheim
H-92 Sinsheim

LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)

(APO 154)

Warttemberg
SK Stuttgart
SK-LK
LK Aalen
LK Béblingen
LK Crailsheim
LK Eselingen
Sppin;
LK Hall
LK Heidenheim
ira Leone
Ludwigsbur,
LK Weikloeen®
LK Backnang
LK Kanzelsau
LK Leonber,
LK Mergentheim
LK Nartingen
LK Ohringen
LK Vaihingen

SK-LK Mannheim
SK-LK Heidelberg
SK-LK Pforzheim
SK-LK Karlsruhe

LK Bruchsal

LK Buchen

LK Mosbach

LK Tauberbischofsheim
LK Sinsheim

27

LtGen Lucius D Clay, Deputy
Military Governor

Maj Gen C L Adcock, Assistant
Deputy Military Governor

Col M O Edwards

Col M O Edwards
1st Lt J P Clifford
Capt E G Thompson
Lt Col Beckjord

Col M O Edwards
Lt Col L Jackson
Capt R N Tharp
Capt R H Nation
Capt R H Agato
Capt W R Danheiser
Capt F A McDonald
1st Lt J E Switzer
Capt R Kennedy

1st Lt H Putman
Maj B V Bloom
1st Lt P F Sullivan
1st Lt J Strauss
Capt I B Cross

Capt B Panettiere
Capt C E McGaffey
Capt W J Vallaza
Capt R Forrest
Maj S A Warren
1st Lt M Korson
1st Lt R E Alley

Maj M L Hoover

Lt Col W T Burt
1st Lt N Semaschko
Maj W T Neel

1st Lt L L Goldman
Maj J A McGinness
1st Lt I C Maghran
1st Lt J Zecca

Capt H D Peterson

--- Page 31 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Office of Mil Gov:
for Land Greater Hesse
Wiesbaden

Hg 2d Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Wiesbaden
Hq Co 2d Mil Gov Se p) Wiesbaden
Sv Co 2d Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Oberursel

2d MG Med G
H-87 US Ln Det Essen (Ruhr)
H-88 USLnDetSulzbach (Saar)

307 Hq (Westphalia Reg) Munster

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

E-5 Wiesbaden

E-6 Frankfurt

F-15 Wiesbaden

G-41 Wetzlar

H-77 Dillenburg

H-78 Gelnhausen

H-79 Hanau

H-80 Weilburg

H-81 Hofheim

H-83 Radesheim

H-86 Bad Homburg
Regierungsbezirk Kassel

E-4 Kassel

F-14 Kassel

G-38 Fritzlar

G-39 Marburg

G-40 Fulda

G-48 Korbach

H-65 Eschwege

H-67 Hersfeld

H-68 Hofgeismar

Regierungsbezirk Hessen

E-3 Darmstadt
F-12 Darmstadt

F-13 Offenbach

G-31 He

G-32 Badiagen
G-33 Dieburg
G-34 Friedberg
G-35 Giessen
H-62 Lauterbach

*Liaison and security

LAND GREATER HESSE

2d Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

RB Wiesbaden
SK Frankfurt
SK Wiesbaden
LK Wetzlar
LK Dillenburg
LK Gelnhausen &
*LK Schlichtern
SK-LK Hanau
*LK Limburg &
LK Oberlahn
LK Maintaunus
LK Rheingau
*LK Usingen &
LK Obertaunus

RB Kassel & *LK Melsungen
SK-LK Kassel &

*LK Melsungen
LK Fritzlar-Homburg &

*LK Ziegenhain
SK-LK Marburg
SK-LK Fulda & *LK Hiinfeld
LK Waldeck & *LK Frankenberg
LK Eschwege &

*LK Witzenhausen
LK Hersfeld &

*LK Rotenvurg
LK Hofgeismar &

*LK Wolfhagen

RB Hessen
SK-LK Darmstadt &
*LK Gross-Gerau
SK-LK Offenbach
LK Bergstrasse & *LK Erbach
LK Badingen :
LK Dieburg
LK Friedberg &
*ICB Bad Nauheim
SK-LK Giessen
LK auterbach & *LK Alsfeld

28

Col J R Newman

Col J R Newman
Capt HE York
Capt B A Sturdevan
Capt CU Stag

tGE
Maj Ww Condy
Lt Col L J Dockal

Col J R Newman
Col R K Phelps
Maj M E Chotas
Maj M Baymor
Capt G A Abood

Capt W F Johnson
Lt Col T Turner

Capt H L Edberg
Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hints

Capt L F Jones

Lt Col A Skarry
Maj G C Sola

1st Lt W W Lechner

Maj R A Gish

Lt Col C F Russe

Capt H R Dichtenmueller

Maj R F Musgrove
Capt G S Iredell
Capt S B Borda

Lt Col W R Swarm

Capt N R Laird
Capt C H Carter
Maj L H Brown
Capt T A Norris
Capt J S Chapin

Maj R J Willard
Capt C H Lenneville
Capt H Nickelsberg

--- Page 32 ---
OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFIGER

Office of
Mil Gov for

Bavaria Munich

Hq 3d Mil Gov Regt Munich
Hq Co Munich

Sv Co Munich

3d MG Med Det Munich

Regierungsbezirk Mainiranken

CoA Wiarzburg
E-202 Wirzburg
F-210 = Wiirzbuy,
Seen Schweinfurt
G-20: Aschaffenburg
*A-250 Bad Kissingen
TA-251 Kitzingen
7A-330 = Alzenan
*A-331 Briickenau
*A-332 Ebern
*A-333 Geminden
*A-334 Gerolzhofen
*A-335, Hammelbarg
*A-336  Hassfurt
*A-337  Hofheim
7*A-338  Karletadt
*A-339 Kénigshofen
*A-340 = Lohr
7A-341 Marktheidenfeld
*A-342  — Mellrichstadt
*A-343 — Miltenberg
*A-344 Neustadt Saale
*A-345 Obernburg
7*A-346 Ochsenfurt

LAND BAVARIA

3d Mil Gov Regt
(APO 170)

RB Mainfranken
SK-LK Wirz!

SK-LK Aschaffenburg
SK-LK Schweinfurt
LK Kissi

LK Kitzi

LK Alzenau

LK Brivckenan

LK Ebern

LK Gemiinden

LK Gerolzhofen

LK Hammelburg

LK Hassfurt

LK Hofheim

LK Karlstadt

LK Kénigshofen

LK Lohr

LK Markt Heidenfeld
LK Mellrichstadt

LK Miltenberg

LK Neustadt a. d. Saale
LK Obernburg

LK Ochsenfurt

Regierungsbevirk Gber & Mittelfranken

Co B Anskach
E-203 Ansbach
F-211 Nirnberg
G-222_ B

G-223 Bayreuth
G-224 Erlangen
G-225 Coburg

G-227 Hof
G-228 Ansbach
G-229 Farth

*H-254 Kulmbach
*B-226 Kronach
*B-247 Lichtenfels
*B-252 Ebermannstadt
*B-253 Hochstadt
*B-255 Pegnitz
*B-256 Munchberg
*B-258 Rehau
*B-259 Wunsiedel
*B-260 Forcheim
*B-261 Dinkelsbahil
*B-262 = Eichstadt

*Liaison and security

Ae Pete end Mittelfranken
SK-LK Bi

SK-LK Be:

LK Erlangen

SK-LK Coburg

SK-LK Hof

SK-LK Ansbach

SK-LK Farth

SK-LK Kulmbach

LK Kronach

LK Lichtenfels

LK Ebermannstadt

LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
LK Pegnitz

LK Wunsiedel
LK Forcheim
LK Dinkelsbihl
LK Eichstadt

rs]

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C.-C Morgan
Capt J W Presten
Capt L R Clark

Col J B Pappas

Maj I P Chestnut
Maj I P Chestnut
Maj M B Voorhees
Capt J R Hurst
Maj G M Marsh
Capt M A Potter
Capt L A Mercadante
Capt A T Neumann
Capt Grodzinski
1st Lt G E Mair
Capt J J Cotter

1st Lt G F Feehan
Capt K L Ellis
Capt R E Hellmig
Capt F L Beelby
Capt W E Brayden
Capt C Boden

Capt E E Kelly
Capt Griffin

1st Lt L K Owens
Capt O A Jenson
Capt E F Warnke
Capt J Bumic

Capt L A Lowell

eee
Lt Col C Klise
Lt Col J R Case
Capt BF Stroup, Actg
Lt Col F M Guild
Maj S Klein
Maj H L Woedall
Lt Col W R Whitaker
Maj A C Abbett

t J F Begley
Maj F W Crimp
Maj R T Boyer
Maj F K Hinchey
Capt F J Stamatis
Maj H C Kauffman
Capt W W Evans
Maj T Cleary
Maj H W Zurn
Capt J F Wyatt
Capt R J Towle

--- Page 33 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

*B-263 Feuchtwangen
*B-264 Gunzenhausen
*B-265 Hersbruck
*B-266 Hilpoltstein
*B-267 Weissenburg
*B-268 . Rothenburg
*B-269 Schwabach
*B-270 Scheinfeld
*B-271 Windsheim
*B-272 = Lauf

*B-273 Neustadt a. d. Aisch
*B-347 Naila

*B-348 Stadtsteinach

LK Feuchtwangen
LK Gunzenhausen
LK Hersbruck
LK Hilpoltstein
LK Weissenburg
LK Rothenburg
LK Schwabach
LK Scheinfeld
LK Uffenheim
LK Lauf

LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch
LK Naila

LK Stadtsteinach

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern & Oberpfalz

Co D Regensburg
E-204 Regensburg
F-212 Regensburg
G-230 Weiden

G-243 Passau

G-244 Amberg

G-245 — Landshut

G-246  Straubing
*D-274 Cham
*D-275 Burglengenfeld
*D-276 Parsberg
*D-277 _—‘ Tirschenreuth
*D-278 Neunburg
*D-279 Eschenbach
*D-301 Deggendorf
*D-302 Eggenfelden
*D-303 Grafenau
*D-304  Kelheim
*D-305 = Landau
*D-306 Pfarrkirchen
*D-307 = Zweisel
*D-308 —- Vilshofen
*D-309 Vilsiburg
*D-310 Wolfstein
*D-349 Kemnath
*D-350 Nabburg
*D-351 Oberviechtach
*D-352 Riedenberg
*D-353 Vohenstrauss
*D-354 = Roding
*D-355 Waldminchen
*D-356 Beilngries
*D-357 Neumarkt
*D-358 — Sulzbach-Rosenburg
*D-375 = Bogen
*D-377 _ Dingolfing
*D-278 — Griesbach
*D-379 = Katzting
*D-380  Mainburg
*D-381 Mallersdorf
*D-382 _—_ Rottenburg
*D-383 Viechtach
*D-385 Wegscheid

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayerp

Co E Munich
E-205 Munich
F-213 = Munich
G-231 Freising

*Liaison and security

RB Niederbayern & Oberpfalz
SK-LK Regensburg
SK Weiden &
LK Neustadt a. d. Wald
SK-LK Passau
SK-LK Amberg
SK-LK Landshut
SK-LK Straubing
Ik Brea enfeld
sur glengenfe!
LK Parsberg,
LK Tirschenreuth
LK Neunburg vorm Wald
LK Eschenbach i. d. Opf.
LK Deggendorf
LK Eggenfelden
LK Grafenau
LK Kelheim
LK Landau a. d. Isar
LK Pfarrkirchen
LK Regen
LK Vilshofen
LK Vilsiburg
LK Wolfstein
LK Kemnath
LK Nabburg
LK Oberviechtach
LK Riedenberg
LK Vohenstrauss
LK Roding
LK Waldminchen
LK Beilngries
LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
LK Sulzhach-Rodenburg

LK

LK Dingolfing
LK Griesbach
LK Kétzting
LK Mainburg
LK Mallersdorf
LK Rottenburg
LK Viechtach
LK Wegscheid

RB Oberbayern
SK-LK Munich
SK-LK Freising

30

1st Lt D J Smith
Maj R J Nielsen

1st Lt L D Franklin
Capt R E Peters

1st Lt W C Williams
Maj J D Cofer

Maj R E Stringer
Capt G B Jones, Actg
Capt L C Wheeler
Maj E N Humphrey
Capt G B Jones

1st Lt D Wick

Capt H C Moore

Lt Col G D Hastings
Lt Col G D Hastings
Maj C G Doyle

Maj G J Ganer

Maj HL Snapp

Maj J C Robertson
Capt F M Schanbacker
Maj F T Brewster

1st Lt E A McNamara
1st Lt R W Crowley
1st Lt P N Piccola
Capt L R Mariels
Capt RG Miller

Capt R O Woodward
1st Lt 11 Cohen

Maj T R B Coykendall
1st Lt R Macwhorter
Capt G L Milner

ist Lt H Fueglein
1st Lt N Augland
Capt A Albert

Capt G W Cunningham
Capt M O Smith

Capt M J Jarvis

1st Lt W W Greene
Capt E J Gallant

Capt C H Smallwood
1st Lt T B Wofford
Capt J F Leech

Capt D K Nickerson
Ist Lt F Henry

Maj E Fitchter

1st Lt M W Doane
Capt A J Dann

Capt A R Sphar

Capt J W Fleshman
1st Lt G L Thomas

Lt J C Mitchell

Ist Lt J J McWatters
Lt P A Nesbitt

1st Lt CG Dansby
Capt R E Pike

Lt AL Stone

Lt Col J W Hensel
Lt Col J W Hensel
Lt Col E Keller
Maj E W Boney

--- Page 34 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

G-235 Rosenheim
G-237 Ingolstadt
*E-232 Miesbach
*E-233  Traunstein
*E-234 = Altétting
*E-236 Partenkirchen
*E-280 = Erding
*E-281 Laufen.
*E-282 Miahldorf
*E-283 Wasserburg
*E-284 = Bad Télz
*E-285 = Aibling
*E-286 Firstenfeldbruck
*E-287 Landsberg
*E-288 Pfaffenhofen
*E-289 Starnberg
*E-290 Weilheim
*E-291 Wolfratshausen
*E-311 Berchtesgaden
*E-361 Ebersber;
*E-364 Schrobenhausen
*E-362  Aichach
*E-367 Dachau
*E-368  Schéngau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Co G Augsburg

E-206 Augsburg

F-214 Augsburg
*G-242 Kempten
*G-239 Dillingen
*G-240 Weissenborn
*G-241 Sonthofen
*G-292 Donauwérth
*G-293 Ginzberg
*G-294 Markt Oberdorf
*G-295 Memmingen
*G-296 Mindelheim
*G-297 = Neuberg
*G-298 Nérdlingen
*G-299 Fiissen.
*G-300 Krumbach
*G-369 Illertissen
*G-370 Kaufbeuren
*G-372 Wertingen
*G-373 Friedberg
*G-374 Schwabmiinchen

Office of

Mil Gov

(US Sector

Berlin) Berlin

Office of Mil Gov
for Bremen Enclave (US) Bremen
Wesermiinde Det ‘Wesermiinde

*Liaison and security

SK-LK Rosenheim
SK-LK Ingolstadt
LK Miesbach

LK Traunstein

LK Altétting

LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen
LK Erding

LK Laufen

LK Mahldorf

LK Wasserburg
LK Télz

LK Aibling

LK Farstenfeldbrick
LK Landsberg

LK Pfaffenhofen
LK Starnberg

LK Weilheim

LK Wolfratshausen
LK Berchtesgaden
LK Ebersberg

LK Aichach

LK Schrobenhausen
LK Dachau

LK Schéngau

RB Schwaben
SK-LK Augsburg
SK-LK Kempten
LK Dillingen

LK Neu Ulm

LK Sonthofen

LK Donauwérth
LK Ganzber,

LK Markt Oberdorf
LK Memmingen
LK Mindelheim

LK Neuberg a. d. Donau
LK Nordlingen

LK Fassen

LK Krumbach

LK Illertissen

LK Kaufbeuren

LK Wertingen

LK Friedberg

LK Schwabminchen

US SECTOR, BERLIN DISTRICT

US Sector, Berlin District
(APO 755)

BREMEN ENCLAVE
(APO 751)

SK Bremen

SK Weserminde

31

Capt R H Necel
Maj M N Nitz

Capt W A Lovett
Maj C_H Bischoff
Maj AH Wright
Maj F L Tracy

Maj C A Brown
Capt N W Borring
Capt W M Forys
Capt D Root

Capt W N Dickerson
Maj E J Newmeyer
Capt J J McBride
Capt M L Mott
Capt J E Thayer
Capt B B Simmons
Capt M J Groves
Maj P L Steers
Maj M Mawrence
1st Lt C C Smith
Maj H T Hesson
Capt H J Bierman
Maj A G Snow
Capt EL Bark

Lt Col CM Avery

Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Lt Col RS Wagner
Maj R J Paul

Capt J A Morris

Maj J E Rhea
Capt R Glass

. Capt JS Woodward

Capt B M Green
1st Lt M W Toesser
Capt L A Troter
Capt E D Schanck
Lt P W Thomson
Capt S D Lubin
Cist Lt O H Sager
Capt J O Renalds
Capt D G Stevens
Lt P F Moskowitz
Capt D J Moran
Capt T B Creaves

Col F L Howley

Lt Col B C Welker
Lt Col L S Diggs

--- Page 35 ---
