--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---
FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

ROTEN BURG

OBER ©
LAHNKREIS

oes FRIEOBERG
Cee piel eet,

NESBADEN,

OFFENBACH

DIEBURG

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

AUBERBISCH ~

OFSHEIM,

MERGENTHEIM
|EIDELBERG) MOSBACH
BRucHsAL
HEILBRONN
~
eae BACKNANK

LEONBER

WAIBLINGE!
z GMUND

BOBLINGEN Frases

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

INFO i

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
re on this week's cover shows a German
wife in Stuttgart preparing a typical evening
for her six children, her husband and her-
e meal consists of 15|bs of potatoes, 5lbs
ich will be used for a bread substitute the
wing morning and a small portion of cheese
h member of the family. (See “Feeding
000 Germans” on Page 16.)

ye CONTRIBUTORS

of the Economics Division of OMGUS.
lo joining OMGUS, he saw service as

and Germany.
Dr. Roger H. Wells, Chief of the Election
Branch of OMGUS’ Civil Administration
Di jon, analyses the Elections of 30 June in
S Zone Elects Constitutional Assemblies
ig on page 5 of fhis issue. Author
ral standard works on Political Science
ted subjects, Dr. Wells was formerly
the Department of Political Science
Mawr University,
's Inland Waterways which will
on page 12 is the work of Major
4 inson, an | assistant to the Chief of the

Los Angeles Port during

Signal Corps Photo —

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

US Zone Elects Constitutional Assemblies

Ceramics

Germany's Inland Waterways
American Food for Kassel’s Children
Feeding 17,000,000 Germans

PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS
GERMAN REACTIONS
GENERAL

STATION LIST

PAGE

12
14
16

18
21
22
28

--- Page 7 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Operation of Garages in Austria and Germany

for Privately-Owned Vehicles

Quarterly Submission of Unit Changes .

Temporary Ration Cards for Incoming Transient

Personnel .

Procedures to Facilitate the Marriage of Certain

Persons in Germany

Reenlistment of Discharged Members of the

Women’s Army Corps

Travel to Czechoslovakia .

Funding, Reporting and Accounting Procedure
Applicable Fiscal Year 1947

AG 634 GAP-AGO, USFET
17 June 1946

AG 322 GCT-AGO, USFET
20 June 1946

AG 311.3 AES-AGO, USFET
20 June 1946 ©

Circular No 94, USFET
20 June 1946

AG 340 GAP-AGP,, USFET
22 June 1946

AG 210.482 AGP
24 June 1946 USFET

AG 130 FDD-AGO
29 June 1946 USFET

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 8 ---
Fourteen months after V-E Day, conti-
nental Europe is in the throes of constitution
making, constitutional problems and con-
stituonal crises. From Poland on the east
to Greece and Italy on the south to France
on the west, the same questions are being
asked, the same problems wrestled with.
Germany is no exception. Here the difficul-
ties are no less acute, the forces operating
no less deep-seated.

Throughout the past six months, a sched-
ule of elections has been in operation in the
US Zone, and steady progress has been made
in restoring representative councils and self-
government in Gemeinden, Landkreise and
Stadtkreise. Local foundations have thus been
laid for the establishment of Land govern-
ments on a democratic basis.

TASK OF CONVENTIONS

On Sunday, 30 June, constitutional assem-
blies or constitutional conventions (ver-
fassunggebende Versammlungen) were elected
in the Linder of the US Zone — Bavaria,
Greater Hesse and Wiirttemberg-Baden. The
task of these constituent bodies will be to
graft new Land constitutions which, after
MG approval, will be submitted to the voters
for ratification. In these constitutional con-
ventions, the Germans will be faced with

constitutional issues very similar to those
confronting the other European constitution-
makers of 1946.

In the elections of 30 June, 5,554,407
registered German citizens voted in the first
election to be held at Land level and the first
which called the entire electorate to the polls.
As shown in Table 1 (page 6) almost the
same number of. people participated in the
Land constitutional assembly elections as in
the combined Landkreis elections (April) and
Stadtkreis elections (May). However, it
should be noted that some 400,000 more
persons were registered in this election than
in the two previous ones which accounts for
the percentages shown in Table 2 (page 7).

INCREASE EXPLAINED
The increase in registration is primarily
due to the fact that, since the April and
May elections, many refugees and expellees
have been able to satisfy the minimum re-
sidence requirements (six months in Greater
Hesse, one year in Bavaria and Wiirttem-
berg-Baden). Within another year, the
electorate will be greatly enlarged by the

addition of refugees and expellees.
Suffrage qualifications were basically the
same as in the three previous elections under
which Nazis were excluded from voting, ex-

--- Page 9 ---
Table tx US' Zone Elections:

cept for nominal Nazis, who joined the party
after I May 1937. The only change intro-
duced far the 30 Jume elections: was; that

persons who. have been exonerated. under the:

Law; for: Liberation from: National Socialism.
and Militarism of 5 March 1946, or who have
been classified as “followers” under that law
and have paid their fines, were allowed to
vote. Actually, the proportion of persons
eliminated from voting for Nazi affiliations
in the 30 June elections did not vary from
the norm of the past — 5°/» to 79/9. Bavaria
disqualified 6.6°/» of the voters, Greater Hesse
6.49/o, and Wiirttemberg-Baden 5.5.%/o

GREATER LOCAL INTEREST

From table 2 it is clear that the best re-
sults are to be found in those elections where-
in the greatest local interest lies, the Ge-
meinde and the Stadtkreis. The Landkreis
seems more remote, as does an assembly
which, on the Land level, is about to draw
up a new constitution. Furthermore, there
was a church holiday on Saturday which
made it possible for a summer weekend to be
spent out of town. In Stuttgart a polling
booth was opened at the railroad station at
4 AM to catch early-bird travelers who were
provided with “Stimmscheine.” It was not
unsuccessful. In some circles it has also
been pointed out that the holding of four
elections in so relatively short a time has
wearied the population and emptied the party
treasuries,

These elections were conducted according
to proportional representation whereby each
party received a number of seats proportion-

- Number of: registered’ voters. Number of actual voters:

, | April-May. 30 June ‘April—May 30 June
Bavaria ° T3,639,876. | 3,884,158 | 2,819,585 | 2786,999

|, Greater Hesse 2,060,682 |, 2,174,759. |* 1,579,775 | 1,558,927
‘Wiirttemberg-Baden: ‘f1,723,526 | 1,771,337 | 1,163,952 | 1,208,481
U. S; Zone 7,424,084. | 7,830,254 | 5,563,312 | 5,554,407

ate to: the votes cast for that party. In
Wiirttemberg-Baden and Greater Hesse the.
law provides. that. parties which: fail to. poll
five percent, of the votes cast should receive
no- seats in, the constitutional, assembly.
These provisions were designed to discourage
splinter parties. It so happened that there
was only one instance of this, the Socialist
Workers’ Party which ran candidates locally
in Offenbach, Greater Hesse. The party poll-
ed some 8,000 votes out of a total of more
than a million and a half. It thus failed to
qualify under the five percent rule and there-
fore is not represented in the assembly.

In Bavaria, the 180 members were apport-
ioned among the five Regierungsbezirke. A
total of 333 candidates were put forward by
the five main parties on the Land level. Each
Regierungsbezirk was divided into Stimm-
kreise corresponding to the number of seats
to be filled. Each party was allowed to
nominate only one candidate for each Stimm-
kreis, but a vote for that candidate was also
a vote for his party.

MANNER QUOTA DETERMINED

The quota to be elected was determined in
the following manner. The total number of
valid ballots in the Regierungsbezirk was di-
vided by the number of seats plus one. Thus,
for example, in Niederbayern-Oberpfalz,
which was allotted 47 Stimmkreise, the total
number of valid ballots was divided by 48.
The quota thus derived was then divided into
the number of votes which each party got
throughout the Regierungsbezirk, thus giv-
ing the number of seats which the party won.

--- Page 10 ---
Table 2: Comparative Percentage of Registered Voters Voting

Gemeinde Landkreis Stadtkreis Combined Consti-

Elections Elections Elections Stadt- und tutional

Landkreis Assembly

Elections

Jan. 1946 Apr. 1946 May 1946 . June 1946
Bavaria 87.0 72.4 87.7 174 718
Greater Hesse 85.3 75.7 79.0 76.6 71.1
Wiirttemberg-Baden 85.0 61.5 79.1 67.5 68.2
Total US Zone 86.0 71.6 83.0 74.9 70.9

If the party won more seats in a Regierungs-
bezirk than it had put up candidates, these
unfilled seats went to candidates of the same
party in other Regierungsbezirke who were
not elected by the vote in their own. The
converse is bound also to be true. Thus Table
3 shows how the 180 seats in Bavaria were
apportioned. It is to be noted that in no in-
stance does the total number of seats actually
won correspond to the number of Stimm-
kreise. The law permitted the same candidate
to be nominated in several Stimmkreise. What
counted was the total number of votes which
the candidate got in all the Stimmkreise in
which he was a candidate.

PROCEDURE IN OTHER LANDER

The method of election in the other two
Lander was also proportional representation
but with differences in detail. Greater Hesse

provided for 64 delegates elected from 64
districts or constituencies plus 26 delegates
elected from the Land as a whole. A total
of 364 candidates had been nominated by the
four Land parties, plus the Socialist Work-
ers’ Party in Offenbach. The 64 seats were
apportioned among the three Regierungs-
bezirke of Greater Hesse (Darmstadt, Kassel,
Wiesbaden) in accordance with the total vote
cast in each Regierungsbezirk. Thus Wies-
baden received 27 seats, Kassel 18 and Darm-
stadt 19, a total of 64. The other 26, were
allotted in proportion to the total vote re-
ceived by each party throughout the Land.

‘Wiirttemberg-Baden chose 85 members
from 26 constituencies plus 15 elected from
the Land as a whole. Unlike Bavaria and
Greater Hesse, where the voter voted only
for one candidate in each constituency, the
Wiirttemberg-Baden constituencies were mul-

Table 3: Bavaria — Seats Won by Parties in Each Regierungsbezirk

Regierungsbezirk csU | SPD | KPD | wap* | Epp | Stimm Seats
Won
Oberbayern 22 12 2 3 1 39 40
Ober- u. Mittelfranken 22 18 3 2 3 AT 48
Niederbayern-Oberpfalz 32 11 1 1 0 47 45
Mainfranken 18 5 1 0 o | 2 | 24
Schwaben 15 5 | 1 2 0 22 23
Total Land Bavaria 109 51 | 8 | 8 4 | 180 | 180
* Wirtschaftliche Aufbau Partei or Economic Reconstruction Party, which nominated candidates

in Bavaria only.

--- Page 11 ---
Table 4: Popular Vote by Parties

cDU/CSU* SPD KPD LDP/DVP/FDP**
Bavaria
LK & SK Elections 1,679,629 780,676 135,266 43,556
Land Constitutional
Assembly Elections 1,554,183 785,706 145,216 70,572

In the Land Constitutional Assembly
polled 135,128 votes .

election in Bav

aria, the Economic Reconstruction Party

Greater Hesse

LK & SK Elections 553,338 647,226 140,438 109,699
Land Constitutional
Assembly Elections 550,342 655,090 144,272 120,346

The Socialist Workers’ Party (Sozialistische Arbeiter Partei) received a total of 8,323 votes

Wiirttemberg-Baden .

LK & SK Elections 459,240 326,810 93,608 141,661
Land Constitutional

Assembly Elections 474,878 374,739 116,521 195,440
US Zone

LK & SK Elections 2,692,207 1,754,712 369,312 294,916
Land Constitutional

Assembly Elections 2,579,403 1,815,535 406,009 386,358

* CDU in Wiirttemberg-Baden and Greater Hesse
CSU in Bavaria

** Liberal Democratic Party in Greater Hesse
Free Democratic Party in Bavaria
Deutsche Volks-Partei (German People’s Party)

tiple, electing 4, 8 or 12 delegates depending
on population. There was a total number of
775 candidates, all put forth by the 4 main
parties. The quota was determined by divid-
ing the total vote for the entire Land by 85.
Each party received a number of district
seats corresponding to the total vote of the
party divided by the quota. Where a party
nominated 8 candidates, in a particular dis-
trict, for instance, and was entitled to 4
seats, the first 4 candidates of that party
were the ones elexted. The same method ap-
plied in apportioning the 15 seats on a Land-
wide basis, except that the number of seats
already won on a district basis was sub-
tracted from the number which the party was

in Wiirttemberg-Baden

entitled to on a Land basis.
LITTLE BASIS FOR COMPARISON

The tabulation of results by parties is
shown in Table 4 (popular vote) and
Table 5 (percentages). Since each se-
parate Land has its own constitutional
assembly, there is little reason to examine
the Zone-wide figures, although these are
given as a factor in comparison. For in-
stance, it is of small moment to point out
that the Christian Democratic Union (called
the Christian Social Union in Bavaria) won
184 seats out of a total of 370 in the US
Zone. What is of significance is that this
party won 109 out of 180 seats in Bavaria,
a clear majority, so that they will have the

(Continued on page 27)

--- Page 12 ---
Production of Porcelain, Pottery, Tile and Earthenware Necessary for Reconstruction
Of German Homes, Factories and Buildings Stands at Five Per Cent of Pre-War Level

The German ceramic industry, essential
in the reconstruction of German homes,
factories and buildings and important to the
revival of German export trade, was operat-
ing at about five percent of capacity in the
US Zone one year after the end of the war.

Not more than six percent of the total pro-
duction capacity in the Zone had been lost
by war damages, but the lack of coal, short-
age of transportation and impossibility of
importing raw materials because of inter-
national and interzonal trade barriers have
blocked an appreciable restoration of the
German ceramic industry.

The former German production of dishes,
figurines and similar porcelains centered in
the area now comprising the US Zone,
principally Bavaria. The producers located
in the Zone accounted for 66 percent of the
household porcelain and 56 percent of the
decorative porcelain. Those in the present
Soviet Zone accounted for most of the re-
mainder in these two groups.

TECHNICAL PORCELAIN

The US Zone’s territory of pre-war Ger-
many also had a sizable proportion of the
production of technical porcelain, abrasives
and sanitary ware, and lesser portions of the
output of household and decorative earthen-
ware, dental porcelain, pottery, floor and
wall tile and glazed building tile.

After the beginning of the war the require-
ments of the Army and the increased num-
ber of “foreign workers” entering Germany
led to a greater demand for household ware,
and as the war progressed these requirements
were increased to repair war damages. Many
articles which had formerly been: made of
metal were replaced by porcelain or earthen-
ware; porcelain piping was made for house-
hold use, and even steam radiators of por-
celain were placed on the market.

STANDARDIZATION ENFORCED

In order to meet wartime requirements, a
rigid system of rationalization and standard-
ization was ‘enforced. The manufacture of
luxury ware was discontinued in August
1942, and factories producing this type of
ware reconverted to the manufacture of
utility ware or technical porcelain, prin-
cipally electrical insulators. Some plants
commenced production of abrasives or re-
fractories as shortages of these products
became critical. The production of technical
porcelain was expanded to 140 percent of
1939 output to meet war needs and many
new developments were reported in the man-
ufacture of porcelain and steatite insulators.
The abrasives industry, spurred by the war
effort, increased production rates to attain a
peak output in 1944 that represented 125
percent of the total production of this in-
dustry in 1939.

--- Page 13 ---
DISTRIBUTION OF CERAMIC PLANTS IN THE US ZONE

Production Group Bavaria bare, Baden eed

Household and iacoenaee 59 1 3

porcelain
Dental porcelain 1 3 4
Household and decorative

earthenware 10 4 5
Pottery 4 3 6
Technical porcelain 30 1 3
Sanitary ware 1 1 1
Floor and wall tile* _ 1 2
Stove and glazed building tile 9 2 1
Abrasives 15 14 19

*Two floor and wall tile plants located in Bremen Enclave.

INTRODUCED AT MEISSEN

The manufacture of houshold and dec-
orative porcelain, or more commonly, the
“china industry” in the US Zone, is located
almost entirely in Bavaria, and this industry

is by far the most important producer of ©

ceramic ware in the Zone. Porcelain was first
produced in Europe by Bottger at Meissen
in Saxony in 1709 and introduced elsewhere
in Germany by migrating craftsmen from
Meissen.

Northwestern Bavaria became an early
center for porcelain manufacture because of
the plentiful supply of fuel wood and the
proximity of Bohemian Kaolin. The industry
developed along the Bohemian border, and
most of the raw materials and many of the
workmen were imported from Bohemia. The
prevalence of Bohemian craftsmen in the Ba-
varian china industry continued up until
World War I, when they were largely re-
placed by Germans.

Brown coal from Bohemian mines located
just across the border offered a convenient

fuel source and the Bavarian china industry
became so heavily dependent on Bohemia,
which later became a part of Czechoslovakia,
for coal and kaolin, that at present plants
are at a standstill for lack of these materials,
since Czechoslovakian government has placed
all exports to Germany on a, strict cash-in-
dollars basis.

LARGEST CHINA CENTER

The Bavarian china district became the
largest china ware manufacturing center in
Germany, supplying nearly two-thirds of the
total German output. “The normal kiln ca-
pacity of the industry in Bavaria is about
20,000 cubic meters, and the annual capacity
is estimated to be 55,000 metric tons. The
coal shortage has held the production of the

_industry to only three percent of capacity,
according to April reports. The industry
requires about 5 to 7 tons of coal per ton
of finished ware. Two-thirds of the coal
requirements are made up of brown coal,
formerly obtained from: Czechoslovakia, and
the remainder, hard'coal from Saxony or the

10

--- Page 14 ---
Ruhr. In Bavarian practice, the ware is
finished at Seger Cone (1410°C) which
accounts for the high ratio of coal to finished
ware.

The total output of the industry, since the
beginning of industrial activity on a limited
scale last fall, has gone to meet military
needs and minimum civilian requirements,
which are far in excess of actual output. All
of the production has been obtained with old
stocks of raw materials, the majority of
which are from foreign sources, or. from
suppliers located outside the US Zone. In
addition to receipts of about 80 percent of
the kaolin requirements from Czechoslovakia,
flint and feldspar were imported in consider-
able quantities form Norway, Sweden and
Denmark. Kaolin was also obtained from
Saxony, which is in the Soviet Zone.

REVIVAL SET FOR EXPORT

There have been practically no imports to
replenish these rapidly depleting stocks be-
cause Germany lacks currency acceptable to
foreign suppliers, not because of the inter-
zonal barriers which restrict free trade. Most
of the post-war production has been utility
ware and some hotel china, the latter for
military requirements. When conditions per-
mit, it is planned to reactivate the production
of luxury ware for export in accordance with
quadripartite agreements, which allow the
ceramics industry to develop to the fullest
extent of German resources. Thus, the in-
dustry can contribute to the export program
to which Germany is committed to pay for
her imports.

The earthenware-industry is one of the
oldest in Germany, dating back to the 15th
century. Stoneware and fine earthenware has
been produced in Hesse, Wiirttemberg, and
Bavaria for several hundred years and the

manufacture of earthenware food containers , -’

has been continous from earliest times. . In
contrast to prevailing conditions in thé’ Uni-
ted States, where general earthenware prod-
ucts are widely used, in. Germany the use
of porcelain articles predominates. Two
types of earthenware are manufactured in

11

Germany, namely, hard and soft; they are
distinguished. by the fact that the flux used
in the former is feldspar, and in the latter,
chalk.

A considerable quantity of fine earthenware
and utility crockery was produced from the
19 plants located in the US Zone. Flower
pots, chemical stoneware, earthenware food
containers, and: crockery make up most of
the production reported for April, which
showed that the industry was operating at
about 26 percent of capacity. Since most of

- the potteries and earthenware manufacturers

use local clays, the chief concern of the in-
dustry is to obtain sufficient coal, which is
estimated to be 3 to 4 tons per ton of
finished ware.

The Zone’s technical porcelain industry is
concentrated in Bavaria, which formerly pro-
duced about a quarter of the total German
output of all such ware. The main products
manufactured aré electrical porcelain in-
sulators and other. electro-technical items.
A large proportion of the electro-technical
items are manufactured from steatite, a talc-
like mineral, of which excellent deposits are
located at Gopfersgtun in Bavaria. Serious
shortages of Czechoslovakian and Saxonian
kaolins and flint and feldspar from Scandi-
navia are developing, since no replacements
have been obtained for stocks used in post- -
war production.

COAL SHORTAGE MAJOR PROBLEM

The coal shortage has been the major
problem, since the industry uses from 4 to 6
tons per ton of finished ware. Due to the
critical requirements for electrical insulators
throughowt Germany, some coal allocations
have, however, been made available to the
industry to ease the position. Most of the
present output of the technical porcelain in-

dustry, which reported to be operating at

15 percent of capacity in April, is electric
insulators for the repair of high and low
tension power lines.

There are only three plants manufacturing
sanitary ware in the US Zone, and their full

(Continued on Page 26)

--- Page 15 ---
GERMANY’S
INLAND WATERWAYS

Activity Returns toExtensivelransportation
System Badly Damaged in Closing Days of War

The ruthless and wanton destruction in-
flicted by the retreating German forces on
their own bridges, barges and facilities of
Germany’s inland waterways is slowly but
steadily being repaired to revitalize an im-
portant part of the country’s internal com-
munications system.

As waterways are considered to have less
war potential than other means of trans-
portation in Germany, MG seeks to en-
courage the Germans to assume greater ad-
ministrative responsibility for their water
transportation facilities, to rehabitate them
to serve essential carrier requirements.

The picture was a gloomy one on V-E Day
for the German people and for occupational
authorities coming in to help the Germans
to build a democratic way of life. The Ger-
man forces, in their mad retreat before the
Allied armies, had destroyed nearly all the
bridges across the rivers and canals and left
their wreckage blocking the channels. Barges
and tugs were wrecked at docks, along river
banks and in midstream. The locks and dams
in the canal systems were in a shambles:
cranes and port equipment that had survived
Allied bombing were wrecked; harbors were
littered with derelict hulks.

TRANSPORT SYSTEM WRECKED

Germany’s inland waterways system that
formerly carried one-fourth of all the cargoes
transported in Germany; that consisted of
over 8,000 kilometers of navigable waier-
ways; that included more than 6,000 barges,
tugs and coastal craft; that had some of the
largest and best equipped ports in the world,
was almost completely KAPUT from the
battering of the invading Allied armies and
the deliberate destruction of the retreating
Germans.
Immediately after the surrender, and in

--- Page 16 ---
many areas before the cessation of hostilities,
the Allied armies tackled the problem.
Military engineers spanned the waterways
with temporary bridges to reopen major
highway and rail routes. Floating pontoon
bridges with removable sections to permit
passage of craft were flung across the nav-
igable rivers and canals. Under the direc-
tion of the Engineer officers, German wreck-
ing crews with cranes and salvage equipment
started cutting away the wreckage and
hoisting huge sections of damaged bridges
out of the river beds so as to permit through-
navigation. At the same time Germans under
the direction of transportation units, port
companies, marine repair and harbor craft
companies went to work on the port facil-
ities, tugs and barges. Damaged piers were
repaired and wrecked cranes were disas-
sembled and cannibalized to make one
serviceable unit out of parts of several
damaged ones. Sunken craft were raised,
hulls were patched and engines were re-
paired. .

PROGRESS BY US ARMY

During the summer and fall of 1945

progress was achieved by the US Army
Engineers and Transportation Corps troops
in their work-to restore the waterway system
in the US Zone of Occupation. On 7 August
1945, the first barge was able to come up the
River Rhine from Wesseling to Mannheim.
On 21 October 1945, the first Liberty ship
was berthed at Bremen to discharge Army
An On 15 September 1945, the Danube

wh to navigation throughout the entire

Mipied portion of “Germany. Batge
delivery of goal froin’ the Ruhr mines to the
U.S. Zone rose sharply from approximately
KOGHedns in August to approximately 95,000
tots da: December 1945.
*Onhd:-February 1946, a major change in
Op@apation policy was. initiated with the
tranpfar, of.responsibility for operation and
mal it¢hance of waterways in the US Zone
to German civilian engineering, barging and
towing agencies and companiés under the
attplitdidn ‘arid policy ‘control of MG.’ This
sigtfititaint miove - increased the - duties;
res Peiddltbilitiés and authority of denazified

German officials, permitting a greater
degree of self, government and administra-
tion. In February this policy was expanded
to include Weser River ports in the U.S.
Enclave at Bremen.

OMGUS RESPONSIBILITIES

The responsibilities of the Transport
Division, OMGUS, with respect to the Ger-
man water transport system, are now con-
fined to formulation of policy, and making
certain that such policies are carried out by
the Germans. However, the scope of the
water transportation problem and its effect
upon practically every phase of economic
activity in Germany and even in Europe as
a whole is so far-reaching, that water
transport policy makers find their duties
almost unlimited by geographical, political,
or industrial boundaries. The responsibilities
of Col. D. R. Neff and his Water Transport
staff range from internationalization of Rhine
and Danube waterways to establishment of
marine courts at Bremen; from restitution
of craft seized by the Nazis to selection of
fuels for efficient operation of tugs; from
conferences on a diplomatic level to al-
location of steel for repairs to vessels.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS TO DATE

Concerning the success of the water trans-
port phase of Military Government in Ger-
many, physical accomplishments to date
speak:.fot tHemselves. All of the ‘prirhary

_ Waterways in the,US Zone which, were for-.

13:

merly navigable are cleared of wreckage and
obstructions, Approximately 1,300. barges
and 250 tugs ar@ repaired and available for
transportation of cargo for the US Zone.
More than 12,000 tons of such cargo per
day are’ moving by water . transportation.
The facilities of Weser River ocean ports
are sufficient to handle up to 20,000 tons of
cargo ‘daily. Inland water and coastal
shipping has beeri successfully implemented:
to permit ‘interzonal movements. Barges
loaded in Bremen can proceed all the way:
to Rhine ports such as Mannheim on inland
waterways, a distancé of 655 kilometers, in
10 days. : .
(Continued on Page 15)

--- Page 17 ---
AMERICAN FOOD ce
FOR KASSEL’S CHILDREN

“We like pea soup with big chunks of
meat in it and the white bread best,” said
ten year-old Gerd, as he wiped out the soup
bowl with the last remaining bit of bread.
“We are pretty well filled up after one of
these American dinners. Mother is glad,” he
added.

Gerd is one of 6,000 Kassel children who
are eating American dinners at least twice
a week in the first school mass-feeding pro-

14

gram in the US Zone. American voluntary
contributions provide the food through ¢he
Council of Relief Agencies Licensai ‘to
Operate in Germany (CRALOG), and three
local private German welfare agencies
cooperate to administer the program under
MG supervision. hi
In its first week the operation, known in
Kassel as the “American Labor of. Loye,”
fed over 16,000 400-calory meals to children,

--- Page 18 ---
between the age of three and ten. From
the second week on pupils up to 14 were
included. The children are selected from
families which do not get heavy workers’
rations, keep chickens, own grocery stories,
or otherwise receive above-average food al-
lotments. Menus vary daily, and consist of
either hot cereal and milk or a thick,
nourishing soup, Brdad or rolls are also
distributed in the schools.

Approximately 4,500 children between the
ages of six and ten, a German welfare of-
ficial revealed, received two meals, 1,000
pupils up to six years were fed once each
school day, and 500 kindergarten tots from
Kassel suburbs ate an additional 1,000
portions by the week’s end.

Hospitalized Kassel children also share in
the program. In the first week’s operation
about 250 patients, the oldest of whom was
16, ate at least one of the American feedings
daily.

MALNUTRITION PREVALENT

The point to which German nutrition has
fallen was cited by the head doctor in
Kassel’s 85-patient children’s hospital. “All
small children here,” she said, “are sick
from malnutrition. The food they get: from
their parents, though sometimes sufficient in
quantity, was of such poor quality that the

children broke out with skin diseases and
developed severe digestive disorders.”

According to the Chief Physician at
Kassel’s Central Hospital, many operations
for stomach and intestinal ulcers can no
longer be attempted when the patient lives
on German rations alone. “The quality of
these American relief supplies,” he said, “is
an important faetor in insuring the recovery
of our young convalescents.”

EXPELLEE CHILDREN

Closely associated with the school and
hospital feeding programs is the relief of
expellee children. “About one-fifth of the
children fed by the school relief are newly-
arrived expellees as are over one-ninth of
those in city hospitals,” said a German wel-
fare official. “In addition,” she revealed,
“we maintain a home for orphaned expellee
children where from 25 to 30 children are
fed each day.”

A charge to cover costs of transporting
food from the kitchens to schools has been
fixed at the rate of five German cents to
one US cent at official exchange rates per
meal. Despite the low cost, a member of the
Kassel Central Committee disclosed, more
than half of the children cannot afford to
pay anything. In such cases, the meals are
distributed free of charge.

Le

INLAND WATE RWAYS (Continued from page 13)

In the realm of intergovernmental re-
lations, equally significant progress has been
made. The Rhine River has been reestablish-
ed as an internationalized waterway and
satisfactory agreements have been made with
other riparian nations concerning its free
use. Restitution of large numbers of craft
seized by the Nazis has already been effected.
Institution and reactivation of international
waterways traffic and engineering com-
missions has been supported and membership
within such groups has been accepted. For
the present, negotiations with adjoining
countries must continue with completion of
restitution of craft, elimination of inter-
national boundary line restrictions for Ger-

15

man craft, and open navigation throughout
the entire length of the Danube as major goals.

Plans for the future include further em-
phasis upon assumption of responsibility by
Germans for administration of their own
water transport system. The aim of MG
officials will be to insure that water. trans-
port facilities are rehabilitated to the extent
necessary to support occupation and civilian
economy requirements and that such facili-
ties are used to the maximum practicable
extent to the subordination of rail and road
traffic. This aim is predicated on the estab-
lished principle that waterways offer less
war potential than other forms of trans-
portation available to Germany.

--- Page 19 ---
MG has been faced with multiple prob-
lems of agricultural production, price control |
and distribution in its attempts to see that
the 17,000,000 inhabitants of the US Zone are
fed. By programs which look toward keeping

prices within reach of the average consumer,

distributing available food equitably, secur-
ing adequate supplies for farmers, transport-
ing food from farms to areas in which it is
consumed, maximizing indigenous agriculture,
and by importing food from the United States,
the US Zone has been able to maintain
ration scale of 1,330 calories per day for the
normal consumer in cities of 20,000 and over
and one of 1,185 calories in areas with a popu-
lation of less than 20,000.

(Left) a German woman making her
purchases in a Heidelberg store.

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 20 ---
FEEDING
17,000, 000
GERMANS

(Left) Germans waiting in line to get their allotted
food ration; (right) a German mother and her
children eating their evening meal of boiled potafoes
and soft cheese; (below) a housewife dipping goat
milk trom a can, which is the only container
available for carrying this scarce liquid.

Signal Corps Photos

--- Page 21 ---
Mutual Compromise at Paris
Hailed in Stateside Editorials

Recent developments at the Paris meeting
of foreign ministers have been evaluated by
US newspapers and radio commentators as
putting the world in a better position for
solution of Europe’s post-war problems.

Comment generally underlines the value of
agreement among Big Four foreign ministers,
pointing out that it has been achieved
through mutual compromise. Some papers
stress that Russia appears to be acting in a
more conciliatory manner, thus indicating
better prospects for (Western-Soviet re-
lations in the whole international scene.

The point is made that agreement on
Trieste, as the key issue which had been
blocking progress at Paris, opened the way
for the subsequent agreement on 21-nation
peace conference... and the Italian re-
paration problem. On the whole, there is
approval of the Trieste solution, though
some papers make the point that internation-
alization under United Nations will succeed
only if UN itself is strong. Two papers,
The New York Times and Chicago Tribune.
protest the Trieste agreement as not fol-
lowing Atlantic Charter principles.

The New York Herald Tribune said in
part: “The Powers have demonstrated that
they are willing and able to work out
arrangements with one another — a matier
which seemed very much in doubt a few
weeks ago...”

“Specific agreements appear to bear no
particular relevance to one another, but
actually they do form a patterm. Primarily
they mean that the Russians have abandoned,
or at least reserved for the time being, those
ambitions in the Mediterranean which were
the most upsetting factor in earlier nego-
tiations...

18

a particularly elevated plane, did produce a
reasonable fair deal for all participants...
the major difficulty (at the peace conference)
will be to find some formula which will give
smaller states a voice without letting them
discrupt all the hard-won agreements already
achieved among the Big-Four.”

The Baltimore Evening Sun: “Here is
evidence once again that, granted patience
to wait out delays and moods of intran-
sigence and patience to negotiate, nations
can harmonize their divergent positions and
reach working compromises...

“No nation got all of just what it wanted
to see in draft proposals, but all of them
were satisfied in the end to support formulas
that finally emerged. The result should
hasten overdue stabilization of Europe and
should, _ besides, strengthen the general
feeling of confidence in the great power’s
capacity to work and live together.”

Reasons for OPA Veto
Explained by Truman

In a radio address to the nation President
Truman reiterated the points made pre-
viously in his OPA veto message explaining
his reason for vetoing the bill and detailing
inflationary dangers he saw in the measure.
He again particularly singled out the Taft
Amendment, which would have permitted
manufacturers and producers to add all in-
creases in costs to a profit margin as
received during the base period in October,
1941.

Specifying his “most fundamental ob-
jection” to the bill the President said: “I be-
lieve in a profit system and desire that pro-
fits should be ample to provide an incentive
for full production. The Taft Amendment,
however, provides for higher prices and
higher profits even where production is al-
ready going at full blast and profits are

--- Page 22 ---
wholly satisfactory ...

“All of us agree that what this country
needs is production. Production brings jobs,
good wages, moderate prices... The fact is,
however, that’ production would not be
stimulated by the Taft Amendment, but
would be greatly impeded...”

The President criticized Congress for delay
in presenting a final compromise bill, and
asked for public support of the adminis-
tration program for a new price control
legislation. As outlined by him, the pro-
posed new measure would include a year’s
extension of price controls, with provisions
for “decontrolling” some products as they
came into plentiful supply.

Price Control Appraised
By American Newspapers

United States newspaper comment on
President Truman’s veto of the domestic
price control bill and subsequent lifting of
Office of Price Administration regulations,
divided in praise and criticism of President
Truman’s action in generally the same pro-
portion in which the papers had previously
backed OPA extension — that is a clear but
not large majority in favor of the Truman
veto.

The main theme underlying the bulk of
editorials, whether favorable or unfavorable,
was that the people of the country are now
in the position — through voicing their
opinions to Congressmen, through voluntary
price control both by manufacturers and
retailers, and through a consumers’ strike if
necessary — to tackle the whole inflation
problem themselves. And accompanying this
theme was the attitude that the people of
the United States can and will solve this
serious domestic problem satisfactorily, as
evidenced already by a general nationwide
voluntary control of prices to date.

The New York Herald Tribune pointed
out that inflation brought a consumers’ strike
after World War I, and added, “Sellers?
restraint and workers’ productivity would
seem to form an indispensable combination

19

against a repetition of the experience of
1921.” An editorial in the paper states Pre-
sident Truman’s action “defies explanation”
and that the President had widened the
cleavage between himself and Congress at
a time when there is still much to be done
before adjournment and when he is badly
in need of Congressional cooperation.”

The New York Post hails President
Truman for his courage and writes: “Harry
Truman declared war on inflation and re-
jected those whose counsel was appeas-
ment... We hope that the people’s will
may prove. equal to this.”

“The Christan Science Monitor declares
that until greater production applies a com-
petitive brake, only self-restraint of industry
or a buyers’ strike the if that fails, can check
inflation’s course.”

In the opinion of the Wall Street Journal
(New York), “producers and distributors
will act wisely if they subordinate immediate
large profits to price stability, and charge
what will bring them out a little better than
even.

Aftermath of War

The war’s mass slaughter, its forced
migrations, its scorched earth and famines
have left 30,000,000 children hungry in
Europe, and 11,000,000 orphans, writes
Sara Lamport of the New York Herald
Tribune.

Maurice Pate, on leave from his post as
Red Cross director of PW relief, who ac-
companied Herbert Hoover on his Famine
Emergency Committee tour of the continent,
recently analyzed the present picture, and
found that one hundred and twenty thousand
tons of proteins, milk and fats are needed to
answer immediate needs. This would supply
the children with 650-calory meals for a
month at the relatively low cost of eight
cenis a meal.

In Germany, Dr. Pate found, births have
declined from 14.5 a 1,000 of population in
1938 to 4.5 in February, 1946, and four
times as many children who had not lived
a full year died in 1945 as in 1938. Sixty
times as many children died of intestinal

--- Page 23 ---
troubles as in 1938. Other prevalent illnesses
are diphtheria, the ever-present tuberculosis,
heart disease and starvation. However, the
German suicide rate has recouped and is
described as back at its pre-war level, which
is lower than in the United States.

Allied armies have scrupulously observed
food priorities for German children, whose
calory rations range from 1,270 a day for
the youngest to 1,715 for the older children.

The child welfare organizations (Jugend-
aemter) developed under the Weimar Re-
public and pre-empted by the Nazi party
were excellent for the physical training of
German youth but collapsed with the capit-
ulation. However, Allied military govern-
menis reorganized them, providing extensive
care for expectant and nursing mothers and
other services.

Army Program

General Dwight D. Eisenhower. US Army
Chief of Staff, has given Congress an
outline of six basic assumptions on which
the Army program for the next year is
based. The assumptions are:

The United Nations will gain recognition
as a central factor in the establishment and
maintenance of world security... peoples
of occupied areas will remain tractable, that
there will be no great rebellions due to
scarcity of US troops... occupation of Ger-
many will continue to be shared and British,
Chinese, and Filipinos will assist in occupy-
ing Japan... US manpower requirements
in connection with occupation will continue
to be partially filled by prisoners of war
and other foreign nationals... there will be
no delay in the disposition of surplus pro-
perty which requires personnel for handling
and protection... occupational responsibil-
ities in Austria and Italy will be discontin-
ued during the coming year.

According to General Eisenhower US ob-
jectives in Germany and Japan are to insure
that these countries do not become menaces
to America or to the peace and security of
the world. Fulfillment of those objectives
means disarmament and destruction of their
power to make war.

20

In comparing occupation problems in the
two countries, he pointed out that in Japan
the Allies had taken over a country which
had surrendered under an established gov-
ernment, while the German surrender was
chiefly a military capitulation with no or-
ganized government in existence. Hence, he
said, occupation requirements in Germany
call for ore man for every 120 Germans,
while in Japan the ratio is only one for
every 650 Japanese.

UN Security Council

The success of the United Nations Security
Council in focusing the majority opinion of
nations on international questions and
bringing about clarity of issues was stressed
by Herschel Johnson, temporary US delegate
to the Security Council, in the National
Broadcasting Company’s “University of the
Air” program.

The program’s moderator pointed out that
some people feel the work of the Security
Council has accomplished little toward a
constructive settlement of disputes, but
Johnson in reply said that accomplishment
cannot always be measured on the surface.

“What our work boils down to”, Johnson
added, is “broadening areas of agreement.
‘We shouldn’t be. too impatient. It takes time
to reach agreement on fundamental questions,
but we are making headway.”

In discussing actual accomplishments of
the Council since it began work more than
five months ago, Johnson pointed out that
news headlines too frequently play up dif-
ferences which can be dramatized. He
emphasized that the Council has done a great
deal so far to fulfill its obligations under the
UN Charter — to promote peaceful adjust-
ments of disputes.

In discussing more general aspects of the
UN, Johnson said that ‘one principle of
great importance has been established in the
brief history of UN — that all nations, great
or small, have equal right-to lay their griev-
ances before the court of the world for
opinion.”

--- Page 24 ---
‘Berlin Press Views
Zone-Wide Elections

Discussion of the Zone-wide elections for
constitutional assemblies has been featured
in recent editorials by the Berlin press. Der
Tagesspiegel, US-licensed paper, found the
elections to be the most important which
have been held in the American area because
they laid the basis for the future federal
structure of the German state.

In its editorial regarding the elections,
Neues Deutschland, organ of the Socialist
Unity Party, attacked the constitutional
drafis, claiming that they have been drawn
up by “those circles which had various reas-
ons for undermining the demands of the
progressive forces of Germany for a political
and economically united Germany.” Declar-
ing that the elections will have a great im-
portance for all of Germany, the paper states
that the candidates who are elected will have
to make important decisions regarding the
unity or splitting of Germany. Fear is ex-
pressed that the CSU will continue to remain
under the influence of forces which want to
use the CSU as a basis for reaction.

Kurier, French licensed paper, observed
that part of the propaganda regarding the
elections has been very strong, but interest
on the part of the people has been weak.
“. . . This fourth series of elections is the
most important one carried through this
year,” states the paper, reasoning that “the
new bodies will have to draw up the first
constitutions which might have a great in-
terest on the future structure of Germany.”

Saxonian Plebescite

Commenting on the Saxonian plebescite,
Taegliche Rundschau, Soviet organ, declares:
“With this decision the Saxonian population
have demonstrated their determination to put
an end to the rule of the Hitlerists and those

21

criminal war ... By their decision the pop
lation of the federal Land, Saxony, have
shown to all working people of Germany
and the whole world that they are willing
to take the way of democratization of Ger-
many. There is no doubt that people all
over the world who have been following at-
tentively the events in post-war Germany
will gain the fullest satisfaction from this
important and significant decision . . .””

Another comment on the plebiscite comes
from Der Tagesspiegel, which points
out that the result was not unexpected,
adding further that one doesn’t really know
now whether the ‘no’ votes were cast by
real democrats or real reactionaries.

Question of Federalism

The question of federalism was pointedly
discussed by German newspapers in the US
Zone in pre-election editorials on proposed
constitutions, according to Information Con-
trol reports on press opinions.

Calling for a constitution based on the
principle of “self-government .. . not strangl-
ed by ceniralistic bureaucracy,” ihe Frank-
furter Neue Presse said “If one talks about
federalism, then, first of all, we must abolish
the false federalism and replace it by real
federalist planning that has its roots in clean-
cut economic and regional units. The Allied
Military Government has done valuable
spade work in this field that will save Ger-
man political groups many an embarrassing
dicision.”

The Frankfurter Rundschau, however, at-
tacking all federalistic elements in the future
constitution, said, “It is high time that the
work of the constitutional draft will be en-
trusted with the representatives of the work
people. Yet, the people want a constitution
which realizes their desire for freedom, de-
mocracy and socialism.”

--- Page 25 ---
NEWCOMERS’ ORIENTATION PROGRAM
WINS CASH PRIZE FOR MG EMPLOYEE

He had an idea; he wrote it up; he sent
it in; and today Mr. Christopher Legge of
the OMGUS Control Office is richer by $25.
Legge, the initial prize winner in the Em-
ployee Suggestion and Awards Campaign, out-
lined a comprehensive orientation course on
the aims, policies and results of MG in Ger-
many fornew arrivals in the ET, especially
in Berlin.

In the first month’s operation, 42 sugges-
tions, for increasing MG efficiency have been
received, 35 of which came from Berlin per-
sonnel and the remaining seven from emp-
loyees in the Zone.

Fifteen of ihe suggestions are aimed at
reducing occupation costs through manpower,
material and money savings, four each are
devoted to safety and means of improving
the occupation program, five deal with mor-
ale, three with black market control, two
with training, and nine others offer varied
suggestions for MG. Of these, 34 are intend-
ed for Zone-wide application and eight for
local use.

FUNCTION OF CAMPAIGN

The Suggestions and Awards Campaign
seeks to bring to the attention of OMGUS
constructive ideas to facilitate the job of ad-
ministering occupation duties. The program
was inaugurated to make available a suitable
outlet for the untold numbers of ideas that
lie dormant in the minds of employees. By
this means it is hoped to bring to light these
time, life and money saving ideas.

Contributors will have an opportunity of
winning various prizes of merchandise, in-
cluding jeeps, watches, cameras, radios and
silverware, awarded to both military and civ-
ilian personnel; paid leaves and furloughs of

from seven to fifteen days to any place in
the theater for military personnel, and cash
prizes of $25 to $250, plus tours on TDY
status, for civilians. The number of meritori-
ous suggestions will govern the number of
awards to be given intermittently.

ELIGIBLE PERSONNEL

Every OMGUS employee throughout the
theater — including US military and civ-
ilian personnel and all Allied and neutral
personnel working for MG in the American
Zone may participate. An individual may
submit as many suggestions as he chooses
and receive as many individual awards as
his entries warrant. Suggestions must be
typed in triplicate, with the original sub-
mitted to the local commitiee and two copies
mailed to the Central Suggestions Committee.

Judging is being done by the Central
Committee, located in Berlin, and by the
committees set up locally in each of the three
Laender, Berlin Distrct, Bremen Enclave,
OMGUS (Main) at Berlin and OMGUS (Rear)
at Frankfurt. These seven local committees
will award prizes for meritorious suggestions
which are applicable to MG operations in the
area. The Central Committee in Berlin will
review all suggestions submitted in the Zone
and will award additional prizes for sugges-
tions having Zone-wide application.

Members of the Central Commitiee are
Major General C. L. Adcock, Assistant De-
puty Military Governor, chairmans; Mr. A. J.
Rockwell, Acting Director of the Legal Div-
ision; Mr. Henry Parkman, Director of Civil
Administration Division; Mr. F. S. Hanna-
mann, General Counsel to the Director, Econ-
omics Division; Dr. John Taylor, Chief of

--- Page 26 ---
Education and Religious Affairs Branch, In-
ternal Affairs and Communications Division,
and Dr. Walter Dorn, Special Advisor to the
Deputy Military Governor.

Sudetens to be Equipped

Before Being Expelied

The regulations under which 850,000 Su-
deten Germans have been transferred to the
American Zone from Czechoslovakia. since
20 November 1945, have been amended in
order to facilitate the human handling of
the 650,000 Sudeten Germans still await-
ing transfer to the American Zone. The
amendments, which were agreed to ata
June meeting in Prague between US MG
and Czechoslovak authorities, insure that
henceforth Sudeten Germans will be trans-
ferred as family units and that they will
be supplied with adequate clothing and
enough funds to cover their immediate needs,
OMGUS has announced.

For the purpose of transfer, a family
will be considered as a group of persons’
whose nembers are either blood relatives or
legally adopted, and who are dependent for
their maintenance on the same wage earner.
These include husband and wife and their
children up to 18 years of age. Also included
are the parents of the husband and wife and
their adult children over 18 years of age,
as well as any grandchildren, who may live
in the same community and are dependent
on or supporting other members of the
family.

Each member of a family being transfer-
red will be permitted to take with him bag-
gage weighing up to 70 kilos. Thus each
Sudeten German may take all his personal
belongings and necessities of life, including
the tools necessary for his trade or profes-
sion. Exception will be made only if the
export of these tools is prohibited by Czech-
oslovak laws and regulations.

Each expellee from Czechoslovakia being
resettled to the US Zone will have RM 500
in his possession. Dificiencies will be prov-
ided by the Czechoslovak authorities. These

authorities will also check to insure that
each expellee is suitably dressed with com-
plete outer garment, underwear, hose, shoes,
coat and hat. Germans without means and
lacking suitable clothing will receive this
minimum equipment from the Czechoslovak
authorities.

Experiment with Hybrid Corn

Hybrid corn, which comprises 85 percent
of all the corn planted in the United States,
is being introduced this year in the U.S.
Zone of Germany as an experiment to help
alleviate the inability of southern Germany
to grow sufficient grains to meet its own
needs.

Hybrid corn is the result of years of ex-
perimenting in the United States in inter-
breeding and cross-fertilization of various
strains to produce a better type. The
scientific tests to determine the best vari-
eties for Germany are being made at the
agricultural experimental stations at Hohen-
heim near Stuttgart and at Weihenstephan
near Munich.

In addition to experiments with growing
corn for grain, 4,340 metric tons of corn,
mostly hybrid varieties, were imported from
the United States for fodder growing pur-
poses. This amount would be sufficient to
plant approximately 30,000 hectares, accord-
ing to the Food and Agriculture Branch,
OMGUS.

Export-Import Program
In an effort to expedite export trade from
Germany to the United States, Mr. Roy J.
Bullock, Chief of the Export-Import Section,
OMGUS Economics Division, will leave on
a two-week mission which will include con-
ferences with government agencies in Wash-
ington, D.C. and personal contact with po-
tential buyers of German-made products.
Products manufactured in the US Zone of
Germany which are available for export
include leather goods, toys and costume
jewelry. The discussions will concern the
handling of German exports to the United
States and the possibility of immediate ship-

--- Page 27 ---
ment of leather goods and toys on consign-
ment.

Mr. Bullock will propose that represent-
atives of handicraft, porcelain and jewelry
distributing trades come to Germany to
survey these fields and advise manufacturers
there what designs and types of goods in
their field are in greatest demand. Since
exports from Germany are paid for in dol-
lars, they would also be able to price the
goods since no exchange rate has yet been
established between the mark and the dollar.

Redress From “Nazi Justice”’

Criminal sentences of Nazi “special courts”
between 31 January 1933 and 8 May 1945
are to be reviewed under provisions of a
German law approved by the Laenderrat at
Stuttgart. The law, seeking redress of
wrongs committed in the administration of
criminal justice under the Hitler regime,
would provide for adjustment of sentences
showing undue harshness or inspired. by
Nazi ideology on the basis of the deed com-
mitted,

Mayor’s Sentence Upheld

The two-year prison sentence imposed by
an MG Intermediate Court upon Eugen Sie-
becke, 55, ailing ex-Oberburgermeister of
Marburg, found guilty of attempting to in-
timidate an MG officer and of denying
membership in Nazi organizations has been
upheld by Col J. R. Newman, MG Director
for Greater Hesse and reviewing authority
in the case.

Siebecke, who, it was proved, served as
a minor official in the NSV, Nazi welfare
organization, and as a professional training
official in the DAF, Hitler Labor Society,
first denied membership in both groups.
Later, he admitted having been. an “em-
ployee” in the DAF, but still denied NSV
membership.

During the investigation of an alleged
murder and the suspected disappearance of
property in Marburg, testimony showed Sie-
becke, although in no way implicated in the
crime, tried to stop the investigation by

24

threatening the MG officer in charge with
reprisals. “Although Military Government
does not make examples of men solely be-
cause of the position they held,” Colonel
Newman said, “I think it is only right and
just that those men who, by reason of their
position command the respect and obedience
of their subordinates, should be made to
account in no less measure for criminal acts
than persons holding subordinate positions.”

Amnesty for Youth

The Deputy Military Governor has ap-
proved a Laenderrat recommandation for a
general amnesty for youthful offenders of
past Nazi affiliations.

The amnesty would apply to those born
since 1 January 1919 but specifically would
not include those in Class I or Class II under
the Law for Liberation from National So-
cialism and Militarism, or “any members of
the group against whom specific evidence
may be found to warrant their trial for war
crimes, crimes against peace, and crimes
against humanity.”

The Deputy Military Governor said, “It is
the desire of the United States Military Gov-
ernment in Germany to offer encouragement
to the youth of Germany to understand and
to develop a democratic way of life which
was denied to them under the Nazi regime.”

MG Training Program

In a program designed to increase the
proficiency of presently-employed OMGUS
civilian workers and to train prospective
employees for MG positions, 532 young
Germans are enrolled in a series of clerical
and automobile courses conducted in Berlin
by the Information and Education Office of
OMGUS.

Nearly 200 women, mostly unemployed,
are attending the American University of
Berlin four hours a day, six days a week,
to learn English grammar, office administrat-
ion, shorthand, typing, correspondence and
filing. They receive substitence pay and noon
meals. Successful candidates will be placed
in MG clerical jobs after the two-month

--- Page 28 ---
training course.

Approximately 165 OMGUS civilian em-
ployees are attending night sessions of a sec-
retarial practice course to earn possible
advancement. Forty German mechanics are
attending morning classes at the OMGUS
motor pool to prepare for more responsible
jobs.

US Library in Heidelberg

Hundreds of Germans, old and young,
crowded the American library in Heidelberg
when it opened its doors to provide reading
materials unavailable during the Nazi period,
reports OMG for Wuerttemberg-Baden.

More than 2,000 volumes and 80 different
magazines and newspapers, in English and
German, are now available for the use of
German civilians. Particular interest was
shown in the recent Swiss books published
in German which formed a special display
and also in books about the Uniteed States
and democracy.

This latest US information library joins
the American library in Stuttgart, established
last February, and the reading rooms at
Karlsruhe and Ulm, in giving Germans. an
opportunity to discover and use informa-
tional materials available through no other
source.

Coupon System Strengthens
Currency Control in Berlin

A validating coupon system for retail sales
at all military-sponsored establishments is
being inaugurated this month in the US Sec-
tor of Berlin. The circular from US Head-
quarters, Berlin District, said the purpose
of the system is “to prevent Allied Military
marks that were procured from sources other
than legitimate from being converted into
dollar instruments and thereby causing a
drain on the financial resources of the United
States.”

Coupon books of 5, 10 and 20-dollar de-
nominations are secured by each individual
from a designated officer in his unit, with

25

the proper deduction from his currency
control record book at the time of issuance.
No cash is involved in this initial proce-
dure. When the individual makes a purchase
at establishments such as PX’s, messes, clubs,
snack bars, clothing sales store and post-
offices in the US Sector of Berlin, he pre-
sents his coupon bock along with the marks
for his actual purchase. A corresponding
number of coupons are taken from’ the book
to validate the marks involved.

Exceptions are allowed only certain trans-
ient and Allied personnel. Purchases totaling
more this five dollars may be deducted di-
rectly from the currency control record book
without use of coupons.

Coastal Shipping Allocated

Thirty-one vessels, totaling 19,951 dead-
weight tons were allocated the US Zone
under a distribution of German coastal ships
made by the ACA Transport Directorate. The
12 coastal ships and 19 other cargo vessels
and tankers will operate from the Bremen
Enclave.

A total of 427 ships, totaling 165,526 tons,
was allocated for use of the German
economy under Allied supervision. Based on
the prewar coastal shipping from the ports
in the various zones, the distribution gave
81 percent to the British Zone, 12 percent
to the US Zone and seven percent to the
Soviet Zone. The French Zone, having no
ports, received none.

The ships will continued to be owned and
operated by Germans and will be permitted
to travel between ports within Germany.

New Omgus Branch

A Policy Enforcement Branch has been
set up under the Civil Affairs Division,
OMGUS, to study and report on the current
and long-range policies of the US Military
Government and the German administration
within the US Zone. Col. M. Boyle is chief
of the new branch.

--- Page 29 ---
CERAMICS (Continued from Page 11)
capacity is about 4,300 tons annually. This
total capacity is far exceeded by minimum
civilian requirements, and actual production
reported for April was but 9 percent capacity
rate, due again to lack of coal — consump-
tion amounts to from 3 to 5 tons per ton of
finished ware. Rapidly diminishing stocks
of Saxonian and Czechoslovakian kaolin and
Scandinavian flint and feldspar further in-
hibit industrial recovery.

FLOOR AND WALL TILE

Floor and wall tile are frequently included
in the output of general earthenware plants.
Two factories located in the Bremen Enclave
are important producers of these items, and
one large plant in Wuerttemburg turned out
considerable quantities. The production rate
for floor and wall tile was at 3 percent of
capacity in April, and this limited production
was chiefly due to coal shortage.

The production of tiles for stoves is an
important German industry which originated
in the 16th century when the highly orna-
mental tile covered “Nuremberg Stove” was

first developed. This type of stove is still
a favorite for domestic heating throughout
Germany, and tile requirements are con-
siderable. The manufacture of stove tiles and
glazed building tile in general is curtailed
because of coal shortage. From latest reports
the industry was only operating at about
2 percent of capacity in April.

The abrasives industry in the US Zone is
siderable. The manufacture of stove tiles and
grinding wheel producing district of Frank-
furt/Main accounting for the largest output.
Agricultural whetstones are second in im-
portance, followed by sized abrasived. No
important manufacture of abrasive cloth and
paper is carried out in the Zone. The pro-
duction rate for the entire industry in the
Zone in April was about 15 percent of ca-
pacity. The chief sources of supply of the
principal abrasives used are; The Rhineland
for artificial corundum and PL 203, and Ba-
varia for carborundum. Interzonal trade bar-
riers make procurement of corundum dif-
ficult. Shortages of coal and raw materials
are the limiting factors in further expansion
of the abrasives industry.

CZECHOSLOVAK OFFICER JUSTIFIES
EVACUATION OF SUDETEN-GERMANS

The removal of Sudenten-Germans from
Czechoslovakia is “an act of historical justice”
and the confiscation of their property is to
eliminate the sowing of seed of new wars,
Lt. Augustin Merta of the Czechoslovak army,
said at a recent I. & E. Orientation lecture
in Berlin.

Terming the removal an entirely political
measure,-he said the “Sudenten Germans”
helped in destroying the Czechoslovakian
Republic’s independence ‘in 1938-39. In the
elections in 1935 they voted for Henlein’s
Sudenten-Partei which provided Hitler with
an excuse for the Munich conference and thus
for beginning a new war for the German
domination of the world.

“That’s why we are transferring the Ger-
omans,” Lt. Merto explained, “It is not an act
of revenge but an act of historical justice.“

The state is confiscating the land of the
German, Hungarian and Czech traitors who
actively assisted the Nazi conquerors, for,
he said, if economic positions of such impor-
tance remained with Germans or Hungarians
who betrayed the country, the seed of new
wars would be sown.

Lt. Merta stated almost 80 percent of his
country’s industry is nationalized and in
state-ownership, because much of Czech in-
dustry was in German hands. Private pro-
perty will exist but big elementary industry
is the property of the state, to eliminate once
and for all the possibility of new treachery
of the Germans or even Czech capitalists as
in 1938-39. Industry needs credits, therefore
it was necessary to nationalize the banks
it was necessary to nationalize the banks also.

— The Observer.

--- Page 30 ---
us ZONE ELECTS (Continued trom page 8)
Table 5: Popular Vote by Parties in Percentages of Total Votes

Land Consti-
Landkreis Stadtkreis tutional
Elections Elections Assembly
Elections
Bavaria
Christian Social Union 69.4 °/o 43.7 °/o 55.7 %o
Social Democratic Party 22.9 37.0 28.1
Free Democratic Party 0.3 3.5 2.5
Communist Party 3.9 6.6 5.2
Economic Reconstruction Party a 3.4 4.8
Greater Hesse
Christian Democratic Union 37.9 Yo 33.0 %/o 35.3 Yo
Social Democratic Party 44.0 39.0 42.0
Liberal Democratic Party 6.2 9.0 ver
Communist Party 8.3 11.0 920
Wiirttemberg-Baden
Christian Democratic Union 47.4 %o 31.0 % 39.2 %o
Social Democratic Party 25.1 34.3 31.0
Democratic People’s Party 10.5 15.3 16.1
Communist Party 3.9 6.6 9.6
US Zone - ~
CDU/CSU 56.0 %o 37.8 %/o 46.4 %o
SPD 29.2 36.9 32.6
FDP/DVP‘LDP 4.0 7,8 6.9
KPD 5.5 9.0 7.3

principal responsibility for the framing of
the new constitution for that particular Land.
However, in Greater Hesse the Social Dem-
ocrats, although without a majority, will
certainly wield a preponderant influence.
Various combinations of parties in each Land
are possible and many concessions and com-
promises will undoubtedly be made, since
this is the nature of constitution-making in

27

a democracy. The aim of the assemblies will
be to provide a constitution which answers
the needs of the people in the way they de-
sire. Thus the foundation will be laid for
the establishment of a Land government “of
the people, by the people and for the people”
which, in the last analysis, marks a further
step toward the realization of the U. S. pol-
icy for a democratic federal Germany.

--- Page 31 ---
DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Joseph T McNarney
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, US

Office of Mil Gov for
Germany, US

Office of Mil Gov for
Wirttemberg-Baden

Berlin

LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

Stuttgart

1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay,
Deputy Military Governor
Maj Gen C L Adcock,
Asst Deputy Mil Governor

Col W W Dawson

(APO 154)
Hq Ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart Col W W Dawson
Hq & Sv Co Stuttgart Ist Lt J P Clifford

Stuttgart Area

*SK Stuttgart Stuttgart Lt Col C L Jackson
*LK Béblingen Béblingen Ist Lt O P Johnson
*LK Esslingen Esslingen Capt N Semaschko
*LK Ludwigsburg Ludwigsburg Maj S A Warren
*LK Waiblingen Waiblingen Capt J B Cress
*LK Backnang Backnang Ist Lt R R Mayer
*LK Leonberg Leonberg Capt W J Vallaza
*LK Niirtingen Niirtingen Capt P F Sullivan
*LK Vaihingen Vaihingen Ist Lt U S Aiello

Mannheim Area

*SK Mannheim Mannheim Maj M L Hoover
*SK/LK Heidelberg Heidelberg Lt Col W T Burt
*LK Buchen Buchen 1st Lt G H Wright
*LK Mosbach Mosbach Capt I D Claxton
*LK Tauberbischofsheim Tauberbischofsheim Capt N W Barber
*LK Sinsheim Sinsheim 1st Lt D E Bedard

Karlsruhe Area

*SK/LK Karlsruhe Karlsruhe Maj W T Neel
*SK/LK Pforzheim Pforzheim Maj R_H Stimson
*LK Bruchsal Bruchsal 1st Lt L L Goldman

Heilbronn Area

*LK Heilbronn Heilbronn Maj M W Terry
*LK Crailsheim Crailsheim fase Ut RE Alley
*LK Schw. Hall Schw. Hall apt eena
*LK Kuenzelsau Kuenzelsau Capt C E McGaffey
*LK Mergentheim Mergentheim Capt R Forrest
*LK Oehringen Oehringen 1st Lt.M Korsun

* Liaison and Security

28

--- Page 32 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER
Ulm Area
*LK Ulm Ulm Capt R N Tharp
*LK Aalen Aalen Capt R H Nation
*LK Schw. Gmuend Schw. Gmuend Ist Lt J_E Switzer
*LK Goeppingen Goeppingen Capt R Kennedy
*LK Heidenheim Heidenheim Capt B V Bloom

Office of Mil Gov
for Greater Hesse

Ilq 24 MG Bn (Sep)
Hq Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Sv Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
US Ln Det (Ruhr)

US Ln Det (Saar)

*SK Frankfurt
*SK Wiesbaden
*LK Wetzlar
*LK Dill

*LK Gelnhausen
*LK Biedenkopf
*SK/LK Hanau
*LK Oberlahn
*LK Limburg
*LK Maintaunus
*LK Rheingau
*LK Obertaunus
*LK Usingen
*LK Untertaunus
*LK Schluechtern

*SK/LK Kassel
*LK Melsungen
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*LK Ziegenhain
*SK/LK Marburg
*SK/LK Fulda
*LK Hinfeld

*LK Waldeck
*LK Frankenberg
*LK Eschwege
*LK Witzenhausen
*LK Hersfeld
*LK Rotenburg
*LK Hofgeismar
*LK Wolfhagen

*SK/LK Darmstadt
*LK Gross-Gerau
*SK/LK Offenbach
*LK Bergstrasse
*LK Erbach

*LK Bidingen

* Liaison and Security

LAND GREATER HESSE
Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

Wiesbaden
Wiesbaden
Oberursel

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

Frankfurt
Wiesbaden
Wetzlar
Dillenburg
Gelnhausen
Biedenkopf
Hanau
Weilburg
Limburg
Hofheim
Riidesheim
Bad Homburg
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
Schluechtern

Regierungsbezirk Kassel

Kassel
Melsungen
Fritzlar
Ziegenhain
Marburg
Fulda
Hiinfeld
Korbach
Frankenberg
Eschwege
Witzenhausen
Hersfeld
Rotenburg
Hofgeismar
Wolfhagen

Regierungsbezirk Hessen

Darmstadt
Gross-Gerau
Offenbach
Heppenheim
Erbach
Bidingen

29

Col J R Newman

Lt Col S S Graham
Capt H E York
Capt B A Sturdevan
Capt G E Skaggs
Capt M Dowd

Col R K Phelps
Maj M E Chotas
Capt M S Clark
Capt E G Stolper
Capt J G Bennas
Capt T E Faircloth
Maj E J Emerick
Capt A G Volz
Capt P H Olsen
Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hintz
Capt L F Jones
Capt R F Gibney
Capt T W Harris
Capt E M Jacobson

Lt Col W R Swarm
Maj W C Gipple
Capt G D Fexy
Capt R B Elwell
Lt Col C Reed

Lt Col H R Cress
Capt E T Tedick
Capt D W Shea
Maj L S Williams
Maj Moor

Capt A Quam
Maj M Baymor
Capt G W Davis
Capt L R Allen
Capt S A Karas

Lt Col A Skarry
Capt H L Edberg
Lt Col J C Rose
Maj R A Gish
Capt R O Didlo
Lt J Beoteyui

--- Page 33 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

*LK Dieburg
*LK Friedberg
*SK/LK Giessen
*LK Lauterbach
*LK Alsfeld

Office of Mil Gov
for Bavaria

Hq 3rd Mil Govt Regt
Hq Company
Sv Company

Co A

*SK/LK Wurzbur;
*SK/LK Aschaffenburg
*SK/LK Schweinfurt
*LK Kissingen

*LK Kitzingen

*LK Alzenau

*LK Bruckenau

*LK Ebern

*LK Gemunden

*LK Gerolzhofen
*LK Hammelburg
*LK Hassfurt

*LK Hofheim

*LK Karlstadt

*LK Konigshofen
*LK Lohr

*LK Markt Heidelfeld
*LK Mellrichstadt
*LK Miltenberg

*LK Neustadt a.d. Salle
*LK Obernburg

*LK Ochsenfurt

Co B

*SK/LK Nurnberg
*SK/LK Bamberg
*SK/LK Bayreuth
*SK/LK Erlangen
*SK/LK Coburg
*SK/LK Hof
*SK/LK Ansbach
*SK/LK Furth
*SK/LK Kulmbach
*LK Kronach

*LK Lichtenfels
*LK Ebermannstadt
*LK Hochstadt a.d. Aisch
*LK Pegnitz

*LK Munchberg

* Liaison and Security

Regierungsbezirk Hessen (Cont'd)

Dieburg
Friedberg
Giessen
Lauterbach
Alsfeld

LAND BAVARIA
Munich

3rd Mil Gov Regt
(APO 170)

Munich
Munich
Munich

Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken

Wurzburg
Wurzburg
Aschaffenburg
Schweinfurt
Bad Kissingen
Kitzingen
Alzenau
Bruckenau
Ebern
Gemunden
Gerolzhofen
Hammelburg
Hassfurt
Hofheim
Karlstadt
Konigshofen
Lohr

Markt Heidelfeld
Mellrichstadt
Miltenberg
Neustadt a.d. Salle
Obernburg
Ochsenfurt

Ansbach
Nurnberg
Bamber,
Ba reut!
Triangen
Coburg.
Hof
Ansbach
Furth
Kulmbach
Kronach
Lichtenfels
Ebermannstadt
Hochstadt a.d. Aisch
Pegnitz
Munchberg

30

Capt J S Chapin
Capt C S Parshall
Maj C F Russe
Capt H Nickelsberg
Capt H B Miller

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C_C Morgen
Capt J W Preston
Capt L R Clark

Maj I P Chestnut
Maj M B Voorhees
Capt J R Hurst
Maj G M Marsh
Capt M A Potter
Capt M Colbert
Capt A T Neumann
Capt Grodzinski
Ist Lt G E Mair
Capt J J Gotter
Ist Lt G F Fechan
Capt K L Ellis
Capt R E Hellmig
Capt F L Beelby
Capt W E Brayden
Capt C Boden
Capt E E Kelly
Capt Griffin

Ist Lt L K Owens
Capt O A Jenson
Capt E F Warnke
Capt J Bumic
Capt L A Lowell

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

Col E M Haight

Lt Col C Klise

Lt Col J R Case

Capt D F Stroup, Actg
Lt Col F M Guild

Maj S Klein

Maj H L Woodall
Capt J R Palmer, Actg
Maj A C Abbott

Maj H T Lund

Capt J F Begley

Maj F W Crimp

Maj R T Boyer

Capt O E Palmer

Capt M G Stamatis
Maj H C Kauffman

--- Page 34 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY ‘GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken (Cont'd)

*LK Rehau

*LK Wunsiedel
*LK Forchheim
*LK Dinkelsbuhl
*LK Eichstatt
*LK Feuchtwangen
*LK Gunzenhausen
*LK Hersbruck
*LK Hilpolstein
*LK Weissenburg
*LK Rothenburg
*LK Schwabach
*LK Scheinfeld
*LK Uffenheim
*LK Lauf

*LK Neustadt a.d. Aisch
*LK Naila

*LK Stadtsteinach

Co D
*SK/LK Regensburg

*SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt a.d. Wald

*SK/LK Passau
*SK/LK Amberg
*SK/LK Landshut
*SK/LK Straubing
*LK Cham

*LK Burglengenfeld
*LK Parsberg

*LK Tirschenreuth
*LK Neunberg vorm Wald
*LK Eschenbach
*LK Deggendorf
*LK Eggenfelden
*LK Grafenau

*LK Kelheim

*LK Landau a.d. Isar
*LK Pfarrkirchen
*LK Regen

*LK Vilshofen

*LK Vilsbiburg

*LK Wolfstein

*LK Kemnath

*LK Nabburg

*LK Oberviechtach
*LK Riedenberg

*LK Vohenstrauss
*LK Roding

*LK Waldmuenchen
*LK Beilngries

*LK Neumarkt id. Opf.
*LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg
*LK Bogen

*LK Dingolfing

*LK Griesbach

*LK Kotzting

*LK Mainburg

*LK Mallersdorf
*LK Rottenburg

*LK Viechtach

*LK Wegscheid

* Liaison and Security

Rehau
Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbuhl
Eichstatt
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Hersbruck
Hilpolstein
Weissenburg
Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld
Windsheim
Lauf

Neustadt a.d. Aisch

Naila
Stadtsteinach

Regensbur,
Regensburg
Weiden
Pasau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunberg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau a.d. Isar
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsbiburg
Wolfstein
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldmuenchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach
Kotzting
Mainburg
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
‘Wegscheid

31

Capt W W Evans
Maj T Cleary

Maj H W Zurn
Capt J F Wyatt
Capt R J Towle

Ist Lt D J Smith
Maj R J Nielson
Ist Lt L D Franklin
Capt R E Peters
Ist Lt W C Williams
Maj F K Hinchey
Maj R E Stringer
Capt G B Jones
Capt L C Wheeler
Capt N A Carr
Maj C J Cody

Capt G N Hultren
Capt H C Moore

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern and Oberpfalz

Lt Col Hastings

Capt J W Bossert
Maj G J Geiner

Maj H L Snapp

Maj J C Robertson
Maj T R Coykendall
Capt G L Milner

Ist Lt E A McNamara
Ist Lt R W Crowley
Ist Lt T B Wofford
Capt L R Mariels

Ist Lt L W Kutz
Capt R O Woodward
Ist Lt H Cohen

Lt S Fuchs

Ist Lt R_M McWhorter
Capt D Stacy

Ist Lt H Fueglein

Ist Lt N Ugland

Lt M J Sibal

Capt G W Cunningham
Lt J D Brooks

Capt M J Jarvis

Ist Lt W W Green
Capt E J Gallant
Capt C H Smallwood
Ist Lt P J Piccola
Capt J F Leech

Capt D K Nickerson
1st Lt F Henry

Maj E Fichter

Ist Lt M W Doane
Ist Lt T A Winkelspecht
Ist Lt W Y Murphey
Capt J W Fleshman
Ist Lt G L Thomas
Lt J C Mitchell

1st Lt H H K Theune
Lt P A Nesbit

1st Lt C G Dansby
Capt R E Pike

Ist Lt K J Miller

--- Page 35 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Co E

*SK/LK Munich
*SK/LK Rosenheim
*SK/LK Ingolstadt
*SK/LK Freising
*LK Miesbach

*LK Traunstein
*LK Altotting

*LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen
*LK Erding

*LK Laufen

*LK Muhldorf

*LK Wasserburg
*LK Tolz

*LK Aibling

*LK Furstenfeldbruck
*LK Landsberg
*LK Pfaffenhofen
*LK Starnberg

*LK Weilheim

*LK Wolfratshausen
*LK Berchtesgaden
*LK Ebersberg
*LK Aichach

*LK Schrobenhausen
*LK Dachau

*LK Schongau

Co G

*SK/LK Augsburg
*SK/LK Kempten
*LK Dillingen

*LK Neu Ulm

*LK Sonthofen

*LK Donauworth
*LK. Gunzberg

*LK Markt Oberdorf
*LK Memmingen
*LK Mindelheim
*LK Neuberg

*LK Nordlingen
*LK Fussen

*LK Krumbach

*LK Illertissen

*LK Kaufbeuren
*LK Wertingen
*LK Friedberg

*LK Schwabmunchen

Office of Mil Gov for
US Sector Berlin District

Office of Mil Gov for
Bremen Enclave (US)
Wesermiinde Detachment

* Liaison and Security

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Munich

Munich
Rosenheim
Ingolstadt
Freising
Miesbach
Traunstein
Altotting
Partenkirchen
Erding

Laufen
Muhldorf
Wasserburg
Bad Tolz

Bad Aibling
Furstenfeldbruck
Landsberg
Pfaffenhofen
Starnberg
Weilheim
Wolfratshausen
Berchtesgaden
Ebersberg
Aichach
Schrobenhausen
Dachau
Schongau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Augsbur;
‘Augsburg
Kempten
Dillingen
Weissenhorn
Sonthofen
Donauwérth
Gunzberg
Markt Oberdorf
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Nordlingen
Fussen
Krumbach
Tllertissen
Kaufbeuren
Wertingen
Friedberg
Schwabmunchen

US SECTOR BERLIN DISTRICT

(APO 155)

Berlin

BREMEN ENCLAVE
(APO 151)

Bremen
Weserminde

32

Lt Col R F Philpott
Capt Kurt Baer
Capt R H Necel
Capt W Lasserty
Maj E W Boney
Capt W_ A Lovatt
Maj C H Bischoff
Maj A H Wright
Maj M W Nitz
Maj C A Brown
Capt N W Borring
Capt W M Forys
Capt D Root

Capt W_N Dickerson
Maj E J H Newmeyer
1st Lt H Klein
Capt M L Mott
Capt J E Thayer
Capt B B Simmons
Capt M J Groves
Maj P L Steers Jr
Maj M Lawrence
Maj F Onen

1st Lt H J Thompson
Capt H J Hierman
Maj A G Snow

Maj C A Rein

Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Lt Col R S Wagner
Maj R J Paul

Capt J A Morris
Maj J E Rhea
Capt R Glass

Ist Lt E A Eaton
Capt B M Green
1st Lt W M Toepser
Capt L A Troter
Capt E D Schank
Lt P W Thomson
Capt S D Lubin

1st Lt O H Sager
Capt J O Renalds
Capt D G Stevens
Lt P F Moskowitz
Capt D J Moran
Capt T B Greaves

Col F L Howley

Col B C Welker
Lt Col L S Diggs