--- Page 2 ---
INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN-
opr MARBURG

LAUTERBACH,
OBER =
LAHNKREIS
2) FRIEDBERG

ROTEN BURG

IESBADEN,

OFFENBACH

DIEBURG

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

OFSHEIM.

BRUCHSAL

HEILBRONN

iN
ae WAIBLINGE!

Fe

GMUND

ULM

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

INFORMATION

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Interchange of Visits between Czechoslovakia and US Occupied Zones
Travel in Sweden . . . . .

Inventory of Communication Facilities .

Demotion Plan-Officers .

Feeding of German and Austrian Civilian Employees

Revision of Post Exchange and Commissary Schedules

Requisitioned Motion Picture Theaters

Provision of Household Servants .

Operation of Garages in Austria and Germany for Privately-Owned
Vehicles

Temporary Ration Cards for Incoming ‘Transient Personnel

Turnover of Surplus Property to France .

Reenlistment of Discharged Members of the Women’s Army Corps .
Location of Certain Information Control Personnel at OMGUS (Rear)
Semi-Annual Efficiency. Reports

Matters Requiring Prior Approval of Military Government in the Field
of Civil Administration o 4

Travel to Czechoslovakia

Military Government Regulatiors

AG 353.02 GAP-AGO
11 May 1946 USFET

AG 210.482 GAP-AGO
11 June 1946 USFET

AG 312 SIG-AGO
13 June 1946 USFET

AG 210.2 AGPB
13 June 1946 USFET

AG 430.2 GDS-AGO
13 June 1946 USFET

AG 331.3 GAP-AGO
13 June 1946 USFET

AG 413.53 GAP-AGO
14 JUNE 1946

AG 292 GAP-AGO
14 June 1946 USFET

AG 634 GAP-AGO
17 June 1946 USFET

AG 331.3 AES-AGO
20 June 1946 USFET

AG 400.703 GDS-AGO
21 June 1946 USFET

AG 340 GAP-AGP
22 June 1946 USFET

AG 200 (IC)
24 June 1946 OMGUS

Pers Bull B-40
24 June 1946 OMGUS

AG 014.1 (CA)
24 June 1946 OMGUS

AG 210.482 AGP
24 June 1946 USFET

AG 014.12
25 June 1946 OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
Signal Corps Photo

The picture on this week's cover shows a Ger-
man citizen reading an election placard posted
in Munich prior to the recent Stadtkreis elec-
tions. The free elections held in the US Zone
were among the steps toward a democratic
Germany taken during the past year. For a
pictorial summary of other achievements of
MG during its first year see “1945-1946 —
One year of Military Government" on page 20
of this issue.

MG ANNIVERSARY

14 July 1946 marks the first anniversary of
US Military Government responsibility for the
US Zone of Germany. For this occasion the
Weekly Information Bulletin presents ar-
ticles on three tields of OMGUS activity —
industry, agriculture and denazification.

In future issues of the Weekly Information
Bulletin additional articles will illustrate the
work which has been and is being done in
the other fields under MG supervision — the
Problems which are confronting MG in these
fields and the manner in which these problems
are being solved.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Anniversary Message

Struggle for Production

"Now It’s Up to the Germans“

Food for the US Zone

Our Mission in Germany

1945-1946 — One Year of Military Government

GENERAL

GERMAN REACTIONS

PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS
STATION LIST

PAGE

11
14
17
20

30
33
34
41

--- Page 7 ---
LUCIUS D. CLAY
jeneral, OMG

--- Page 8 ---
Anniversary Message from the

Commanding General, OMGUS

To: U.S. Military Government Personnel in Germany

It is difficult to establish a birthday for U.S. Military Government. Many
of its present personnel belonged to the U.S. Group Control Council which
started planning for military government in England in 1944. Many others
belonged to the Military Government Detachments of Supreme Headquarters,
Allied Expeditionary Forces, and had exercised planning and executive respon-
sibilities prior to the surrender of Germany. However, onthe day SHAEF
was dissolved, military government in the U.S. Zone of Germany became a
direct responsibility of U.S. Military Government. Therefore, we can well call
14 July our birthday.

The personnel of Military Government do not need to be reminded now of
the gravity of the war which had ended just a few weeks before the birth of
Military Government, and the effect which that war had on Europe as a whole.
Many of you had seen its effect in Allied countries. All of you have seen its
effect in Germany.

When Military Government was established in Germany, you were confront-
ed with the ruins of war and with a dislocated political and economic life
which threatened chaos, hunger, and disease. You were charged with the
government of.a people so indoctrinated in Nazism as to have lost all feeling
of self-responsibility.

You have worked hard to restore order and stability; to destroy militarism
and Nazism not only as a part of the social structure of Germany but to re-
move it from the heart and minds of the German people.

Our program in Germany is a difficult program. It requires a firm determ-
ination to destroy Germany’s war potential through demilitarization, denazi-
fication, and the removal of war-making capacity in heavy industry to be
given in partial. reparation to the countries which suffered from German ag-
gression. It demands the punishment of those who led Germany into the sup-
pression of individual rights and then into aggressive war with ruthless pur-
pose. Simultaneously, it calls for the restoration of the responsibility for self-
government to the German people through democratic processes. It requires
the reeducation of the German people to a liberal philosophy of life. It re-
quires firm justice in exacting punitive measures tempered with considerate
courtesy and aid to those in Germany who will work to restore democracy.

During the past year the American Army and you working together have
accomplished such. The German Army is disbanded. Nazi leaders have been

--- Page 9 ---
confined and the German people, through their Law for Political Liberation,
are cleansing this element from their own society. War plants and war instal-
lations have been destroyed and heavy industrial plants have been selected
for reparation purposes. Nazi property has been seized and the huge industrial
combines which made war possible no longer are in operation.

While these essential destructive measures have been undertaken firmly
and with determination, you have also placed in motion the first initial steps
toward a democratic Germany. Free elections have been held throughout the
U. S. Zone. Three Land governments with German personnel have been
established and are now functioning with reasonable effectiveness. Coordi-
nation is obtained among these Laender through the Laenderrat at Stuttgart.
Thus, major responsibilities of government have been restored to the German
people although still subject to the close supervision of Military Government.
A free press and a free radio are being reestablished, and while censorship
after the fact necessarily remains, this censorship does not apply to German
affairs. Trade unions and political parties have developed with new and more
liberal leadershin.

In the Allied Control Council, Military Government has learned much from
its relationship with the three other occupying powers. While there still
remains a field of disagreement with respect to the treatment of Germany as
a whole ,many measures have been enacted and are now being applied to all
four zones of Germany.

Shortages in food and coal have made it difficult to restore a minimum
economy to Germany, but even in this field, substantial progress has been
made within the limits of available materials. Light industry has been en-
couraged by Military Government. Agriculture is being maximized. An acute
food shortage still exists but thanks to the imports made available by the
United States, the conditions in the U. S. Zone have not resulted in mass
starvation, nor as yet serious malnutrition, and these conditions are improving
at the present moment.

Progress in military government must be viewed from the whole and in
retrospect. A Nazi burgomaster remaining in office would not accord with
our policy. However, the success of our policy is not to be measured by the
individual deviation but rather by accomplishment in the mass. In looking
back to a year ago Military Government may on the whole well be proud of
its accomplishments. This does not mean that there is not much left to be
done.

The year ahead will bring with it increasing problems. As we are further
removed from war and become more closely familiar with the German people,
there is a tendency to become overly sympathetic. We cannot be too considerate
in the humane aspects of our job, nor in those measures which prove the true
democracy of America. However, we can be humane, just, and considerate and
still remember that our objectives in Germany cannot be accomplished unless

--- Page 10 ---
we carry out faithfully and to the full the disarmament, denazification and
deindustrialzation measures which Allied statesmen have found necessary to
the future peace of the world.

Therefore, in extending my personal congratulations and best wishes to you
as Military Government celebrates its first birthday on 14 July, I think that
we may look together with pride on our progress during the past year if, at
the same time, we recognize our weaknesses and pledge ourselves during the
forthcoming year to devote the same energy and sincere effort to our daily
work as we have in the past year. ;

We have had time to discover our weaknesses of the past and to overcome
their effects in our efforts for the future.

I am grateful to the great majority of you who have given your best with
sincerity and devotion to the task which our country has placed in our hands.
I know that you will join me in the hope that on our second birthday we will
be able to record even greater progress in fulfilling the unselfish objectives
of American occupation.

LUCIUS D. CLAY
Lieutenant General, U. S. Army
Commanding General

--- Page 11 ---
Destruction to industrial plants created virtually complete economic
chaos in Germany following the surrender of the German Army

The story of industrial production in the
US Zone of Germany since the beginning of
the occupation has been the story of a con-
tinuing struggle characteristic of a deficit
economy.

Jn such an economy there will always be
a question as to who gets what and how
much — whether steel should be used in
desperately-needed producers goods or
consumer items, whether manpower should
be increased at the expense of white collar
workers, whether output of finished products
should be sacrificed to the production of
spare parts.

It is questions such as these which must
be answered each day, each month and each
week. They can never be answered satis-
factorily until enough coal, steel, manpower
and transportation are channeled into the
bloodstream of industry.

Signal Corp

What is the present position of industrial
output in the U. S. Zone and how has the
picture changed in the last year?

Industrial production in the US Zone
has shown a steady rise from ten percent of
capacity in the winter to twenty-six percent
during May. A number of favorable factors
currently evident point to a continuation of
this rising trend for some time to come. But,
in its broader aspects, the economic picture
is still basically discouraging.

Overall output is wholly inadequate either
to supply essential requirements in the in-
dustrial field or a minimum of consumer
goods, to provide work for all seeking
employment, or to provide an over-all zonal
industrial income sufficient to assure the
reduced standard of living provided for in
the Potsdam Agreement and in the Plan for

--- Page 12 ---
Reparations and the Level of Postwar Ger-
man Economy.

INTERDEPENDENCE OF FOUR ZONES

A basic factor is the heavy dependence of
the US Zone on the other three zones of
Germany and, to some extent, on foreign
countries, for important raw materials and
semi-fabricates. In two basic items — coal
and steel — US Zone capacity is far below
US Zone minimum requirements. Practically
all oil used in the US Zone in May was pro-
vided from US Army stocks. Although the
pech and brown coal mines in the US Zone
have been working at near capacity for a
number of months, their output supplies
only about one-tenth of the Zone’s coal con-
sumption.

All hard coal needed must be brought in
from the Ruhr and Saar. Pit-head output

The initial stages of economic recovery find some maunfacturing
concerns such as this ‘plant in Karlsruhe back :in operation

of hard coal in these two main German
hard coal producing areas has fluctuated
around 45 percent or less of 1938 output,
and around two-thirds of present capacity.
Of this output, about one-quarter has been
used in the mining of coal and for mine
power generating stations. A further sub-
stantial percentage has gone to high priority
coal consumers — the railroads, the public
utilities and the occupying forces.

REQUIREMENTS NOT MET

The result has been that the US Zone in
the first five months of 1946 received less
than one-third of the coal tonnage normally
consumed in this area in prewar days. A
parallel situation exists in iron and steel
After allowance for reparations removals,
the Zone will be dependent on outside
sources for 83 percent of its steel.

--- Page 13 ---
Since overall industrial output is to a very
great extent a function of coal and steel,
the economic weakness of the Zone lies in
its dependence on outside sources for these
basic commodities. Expressed in relation to
industrial requirements, coal availability in
recent months for the US Zone (including
zone-produced coal and receipts from other
zones) was less than one-half; in steel, the
May proportion was about one-sixth.

CONSEQUENCES OF WAR

To put present industrial activity in the
US Zone in its proper perspective, the back-
ground of the economic consequences of six
years of war, of complete military defeat of
Germany, and the resulting economic chaos
during the early months of the occupation,
must be painted in.

The high rate of German industrial output
during the war resulted in far more than
normal depreciation of industrial and trans-
portation equipment. Inability of the Ger-
man war economy to maintain a high level
of munitions and civilian production kept
consumer goods output far below. replace-
ment needs — especially. during 1943.44,
when heavy Allied air attacks accentuated
that need. The destruction of and damage to
factories, machines, railroad and ° rolling
stock; the loss of all kinds - of  consuiner
goods in the bambed-out cities, from -pots and
pans io furniture and housing, ‘all reduced
industrial capacities while: simultaneously
increasing’ the demand for :tens of thousands
of commodities and services:

Economic and especially industrial ‘chaos,
virtually complete throughout Germany’ on
V-E Day, continued. on: 4 decreasing’ scale
for -perhaps six months ist, almost all fields.
Today,’ even where order has heen. “tte. estab-
lished, the consequences: of ,this jong period
of almost complete stagnation; airt ‘still. imanl-
fest. While ;the; extreme weéar' ‘and tear’ re-
sulting directly from war and. ‘defeat have
ceased, normal depreciation of, all! ‘durable
and non-durable goods is: 3
replaced by the. Zone’s: pré at fidustrial
output. .An outstdnding exainple ‘igh ebal

40

mining machinery and equipment, replace-
ment and repair of which is vital to main-
tenance and increase of coal output. Thus,
viewed from this perspective, the industrial
economy of the US Zone is still in: the
initial stages of recovery. Not until in-
dustrial output has tripled or quadrupled can
a reasonable balance between new production
and depreciation be expected. Only then will
“living off capital” cease.

In contrast to these fundamentally un-
favorable long-term aspects of the Zone’s
industrial economy the short-term outlook
for a continuation of the upward trend since
December is encouraging.

Barring unfavorable developments, the
May increase of 18 percent in solid fuel
loadings assures a somewhat adequate supply
to industrial coal consumers through the
early summer weeks. This improvement
reflected a modest rise in coal output in the
Ruhr and Saar and the comtinued with-
drawal of hard coal from Ruhr stockpiles.
‘These ‘two factores, plus a 113 percent per-
fortnatice from the Soviet Zone, raised ful-
fillment of. allocations to the US Zone to_
100 percent — the best performance yet. In
addition, a. seasonal decline in coal require-
ments‘on.the part of non-German consumers,
made somewhat more coal available to in-

dustry.

PROGRESS IN STEEL INDUSTRY

Perhaps: ‘even more -basic than the im-
proved outlook: for' coal is the progress made
in the iron and steel, industry since the middle
of April, "when font. blast furnaces and
smaller mills were re-activated. The improve-
tent /in ingot stéel production should pro-
vide'within the near future some alleviation
of the shortage: of steel which has held back
production of many important industrial
items, notably: mining supplies, farm machi-.
nery, trucks’and:spare parts. To, the extent
that lack of. iron and steel has. retarded
overall. output: in the past, more pig iron and
in ot Steel means: stimulation of production
daring’. the early summer’ all along, the line.

--- Page 14 ---
“NOW Irs”

UP TO THE. GERMANS’

Task of Denazifying Reich Rests with Germans after Year in which MG
Carried Out Program for Removal of Nazis from Employment in the US Zone

In mid-June of 1946 MG handed over the
job of denazifying Germany to the people
most vitally concerned the Germans
themselves. MG did not thereby relinquish
all interest in the program, which will, in
fact, be under constant review by the Amer-
ican authorities. The Americans will also
continue to vet certain prospective German
employees of MG as well as candidates for
jobs in connection with the new denazifi-
cation law, and key executives and policy
makers in government and industry. But the
major task of building a democratic Ger-
many has become a German task, and the
success of its performance a factor of
tremendous consequence in determining the
future of both the conquered and the con-
querors. As the denazification program
enters this new and decisive phase, it is
appropriate to trace its development and
achievements from the beginning of the oc-
cupation to the point where MG handed over
the reins.

POTSDAM DECLARATION

The denazification aims of MG, first set
forth by the Joint Chiefs of Staff in
JCS 1067/6, were restated for the occupying
authorities in the Potsdam Declaration of
2 August 1945:

“...Nazi leaders, influential Nazi sup-

porters and high officials of Nazi or-

ganizations and institutions and any other

persons dangerous to the occupation or its

objectives shall be arrested and interned.

11

“All members of the Nazi Party who have
been more than nominal participants in its
activities and all other persons hostile to
Allied purposes shall be removed from
public and semi-public office, and from
positions of responsibility in important
private undertakings. Such persons shall
be replaced by persons, who, by their
political and moral qualities, are deemed
capable of assisting in developing genuine
democratic institutions in Germany.”

PURPOSE OF PROGRAM

The purpose of this program was threefold:
to strengthen the democratic elements in Ger-
many, to provide security for these elements
and for the occupying forces, and to punish
the active Nazis and militarists.

The American denazification program
actually became operative without benefit of
clergy, so far as the Tripartite Agreement
of Potsdam was concerned, for it went into
action when the first German town was oc-
cupied, and the first large Special Branch
Office was set up in Aachen following its
capture in October, 1944, seven months be-
fore the conquest of Germany made the Pots-
dam Agreement possible. The functions of
the early offices were limited in comparison
with later developments but the same task
was paramount — to investigate the po-
litical backgrounds of Germans in public
office and in important positions in public
and quasi-public enterprise for the purpose
of removing Nazis and militarists from those

--- Page 15 ---
positions. The procedure for making these
investigations, adhered to through MG’s de-
nazification program in the US Zone, had
been worked out by British and American
public safety officers months before the in-
vasion of Normandy. Essentially it con-
sisted of requiring Germans in positions
where political reliability was demanded to

submit politically relevant information in a _

detailed questionnaire known as the Frage-
bogen. Instructions for the use of Special
Branches in the evaluation of Fragebogen
according to degrees of ideological culpa-
bility had also been prepared in advance and
were put to use in the early days of denazi-
fication and followed as long as the MG
program was operative. When a Frage-
bogen had been evaluated and checked
against confiscated Nazi party files and
other sources, the recommendations of
Special Branch were made sent on an action
sheet to the supervising MG officer in the
area, who was charged with seeing that the
employer acted upon those recommendations.
‘When the appropriate steps had been taken,
the completed action sheet was returned to
Special Branch to complete the record.

USFET DIRECTIVE

The first directive formally defining
categories of Nazis whose removal from
employment was mandatory was published
by SHAEF on 9 November 1944. After
the dissolution of SHAEF, a new denazi-
fication directive was published by USFET
on 7 July 1945, which remained in force
until it was rescinded on 14 June 1946, at
which time the German denazification law
became fully effective and the majority of
vetting by MG ceased. With two major
differences, the 7 July directive followed
closely the policy and procedure patterns
incorporated in the SHAEF directive. In
defining the degree of culpability of members
of the Nazi Party, the USFET directive
established the date of 1 May 1937 to divide
active Nazis (pre-1937 members, whose re-
moval or exclusion from employment was
made mandatory) from nominal Nazis (post-

12

May, 1937 members, whose removal or ex-
clusion from employment was discretionary).
The SHAEF directive had used 1 January
1933 as the line of demarcation. The second
major difference between the two directives
was the provision in.the USFET version for
a Military Government Denazification Re-
view Board to reconsider the cases .of in-
dividuals whose removal from critically
important positions had been declared ‘man-
datory, when in the supervising MG officer’s
opinion the individuals concerned were no
more than nominal Nazis.

CLOSING LOOPHOLES

The provisions of the 7 July directive
were applied to Germans occupying positions
of “more than minor importance” in public
office and of importance in quasi-public and
private enterprises, as had been the case
before; it also encompassed the top persons
in leading industrial, commercial, agricul-
tural and financial institutions. A. still
broader base for denazification was described
by a directive of 15 August, which extended
the sanctions of earlier directives to include
business and professional people and also
wealthy and influential people outside of
industry, public life and the professions.
This revision closed the loopholes for those
well-heeled and powerful Nazis who did not
happen to hold public office or otherwise
fall within the categories established on
7 July.

PROGRAM FURTHER EXTENDED

The denazification program was still
further extended late in September, 1945, by
Military Government Law No. 8, which had
three main objectives: to extend denazi-
fication over the entire German economy,
removing active Nazis from every class of
industry, large or small, public or private;
to make German employers criminally liable
for failure to remove Nazis from all po-
sitions in business and industry above
ordinary labor; and to give the German
people a measure of responsibility for
denazification by creating German Review

--- Page 16 ---
Boards to hear appeals on the lower levels;
with MG acting m supervisory capacity and
maintaining the court of final authority.

Almost, immediately. after .quadripartite
government was set up in Germany, ne-
gotiations were begun to carry out the
denazification provisions of the Potsdam
Agreement on a uniform basis throughout
Germany, with the result that on 12 January
1946 the Allied Control Council issued Con-
trol Council Directive 24, establishing an
identical policy to govern the removal and
exclusion of Nazis and wmilitarists from
employment in all four zones of occupation.
This directive follows closely the provisions

of the 7 July directive and represents a_

major American contribution to quadripartite
policy in this field.

IMPLEMENTATION OF POTSDAM

It will be observed that each succeeding
law and directive carried the program a step
further toward the realization of two Pots-
dam principles: “...Germany never again
will threaten her neighbors or the peace of
the world,” and “...the German people
(will) be given the opportunity to prepare
for the reconstruction of their life on a
democratic and peaceful basis.” The sanc-
tions against militarists and Nazis were
gradually broadened through successive
regulations to remove political undesirables
from every economic stratum above ordinary
labor, and the German people’s share in the
responsibility of carrying out the program
was steadily increased. The German “Law
for Liberation from National Socialism and
Militarism,” published on 5 March 1946, is
the culmination of both aims. On the one
hand it imposes even more stringent and
extensive sanctions than were provided for
in any of the earlier directives — adding the
category of private ownership to the eco-
nomic groups already encompassed by MG
sanctions; and on the other hand it places
direct responsibility upon the German people
for carrying out these sanctions, for it was
the German administration itself which

13

drafted and promulgated the law and is now
carrying out its provisions.

RESULTS UNDER MG CONTROL

Before goihg into further detail on. the
German plan for self-denazification, it would
be well to review the results of the program
under MG control as reflected by statistics
cumulative to 31 May, 1946. At that time
94 percent of the more than 1,613,000 Frage-
bogen submitted to Special Branch Offices
(exclusive of Fragebogen submitted under
Law No. 8) had been investigated. Sixteen
percent of all investigated cases were found
to be active Nazis whose removal was man-
datory under MG directives — a percentage
rate which has varied only slightly from
month to month throughout the operation
of the program. Removal or exclusion from
employment was accomplished in all cases
among the 96/p of investigated Fragebogen
where action was completed, resulting in the
removal or rejection of some 373,700 per-
sons. Forty percent of the removals and ex-
clusions were from positions in public office;
this was by far the largest percentage from
any one occupational group and reflects the
well-known tendency of German civil
servants during the Nazi regime to protect
or improve their positions by jumping on the
party bandwagon.

PROBLEM FACING GERMANS

The widespread political culpability of
experienced public office personnel, plus
the failure of Special Branches to dis-
cover evidence of anti-Nazi activity in
more than five-tenths of one percent of all
cases investigated, augurs a serious problem
for the Germans in providing competent
democratic personnel for the administration
of the new law. Similar problems were
faced when MG’s functional denazification
resulted in the removal of trained employees
from transportation, communications, postal
service and other public industries. Despite
grim prognostications, however, in none of
these and similarly affected industries did
the removal of political undesirables result

(Continued on Page 39)

--- Page 17 ---
FOOD FOR THE US ZONE

Lack of power machinery and gasoline forces German farmers
to utilize out-dated equipment in cultivating their land.

You can’t build democracy on a starvation
diet. Neither can you mine coal, work in a
factory or unload a ship if, over a long of
time, the number of calories (or heat units)
your body takes in is less than the amount
expended. Without coal and without goods
for export, Germany would be in the
position of a permanent pauper, a perpetual
drain upon the occupying forces without
hope of repayment.

Starvation means disease. Epidemics of
disease imperil the health of the occupation
troops. Widespread hunger means that the
people who talk longingly of “the good old
days”, when Hitler was in power and the

14

Signal Corps Photo

resources of a whole continent were available
for all good “Aryans”, will be listened to
by more and more people.

UNITED STATES POLICY

The arguments in favor of preventing
starvation in the US Zone are many and
valid, even apart from humanitarian con-
siderations. The United States has of-
ficially adopted the policy that sufficient
imports of food, medical supplies and other
urgently needed items, will be brought into
the American area of occupation to prevent
disease and unrest.

Preventing starvation does not mean a
diet laden with luxuries. It does mean the

--- Page 18 ---
bare minimum which men and women require
in order to work efficiently. Last January
the ration for the normal consumer in the
US Zone was raised to 1550 calories, which
was considered by health experts as the ab-
solute minimum necessary to prevent rapid
deterioration of health. Heavy workers re-
ceived supplementary rations as well.

RATION CUT NECESSARY

However, the world-wide food shortage and
the fact that Germany is at the bottom of the
priority list for food shipments necessitated
a cut to 1275 calories on 1 April and then
1180 calories on 27 May. Recently the
rations of persons living in cities of over
20,000 were slightly raised because it was
felt that people in small villages had a better
chance to supplement their rations with un-
rationed or home-grown food.

If Germans in the US Zone are hungry
today, picture the conditions which would

In the shadow of a gun emplacement, German farmers harrow a field in
Berlin before planting crops which will help relieve the present food shortage.
Signal Corps Photo

be prevalent if the United States had not
supplied more than 700,000 tons of food
during the past year. The following table
shows the amount of food (in net long tons)
turned over to ther German civilian popu-
lation up to and including 30 June of ‘this
year.

From Army Excess Subsistence ..... 27,000 NLT
From USFET (incl. SHAEF) Stocks . 320,000 NLT
From Direct Imports through Bremen 379,000 NLT

Total Food Released through 30 June: 726,000 NLT

The USFET Civil Affairs supplies, which
accounted for 320,000 tons of food, mainly
breadgrains, being turned over to the civilian
population has now been used up. This
means that in the future nearly all of the
food will have to be imported directly from

--- Page 19 ---
Bremen. However OMGUS recently con-
cluded agreements with the Scandinavian ~
countries for the purchase of nearly 50,000
tons of fish for the US Zone, to be delivered
during the next few months.

DEPENDENCE ON IMPORTS

The program for preventing starvation
implies not only enough imports to make
up the difference between indigenous. pro-
duction and the minimum subsistence level,
but also the maximization of German agri-
culture so that Germany can produce as
much food from her own soil as possible.

Even before the war, Germany was de-
pendent upon imports for nearly twenty
percent of its food. The loss of Silesia and
East Prussia deprived Germany of 25/9 of
its arable land; after the war, restrictions
on inter-zonal trade have also upset the bal-
ance of agriculture in Germany. The US
Zone used to be a surplus cattle area and
got most of its bread grains from what is
now the Soviet Zone. Never self-sufficient
agriculturally, its population has increased
during the last few years from thirteen to
about seventeen million persons.

CHARACTERISTICS OF FARMS

Some of the characteristics of German
farms are poor soil and small acreage. The
average farm size in the US Zone is about
28 acres, which in most cases is divided into
half a dozen strips often separated from each
other by several acres of a neighbor’s farm.
It would be more efficient if the strips were
consolidated but the same families have been
farming the same land for hundreds of years
and they do not welcome a change. That is
one of the many problems which have con-
fronted American agricultural experts who
are trying to maximize production.

More serious is the shortage of fertilizer.
Germany has been able to get good crops
from poor soil through the use. of large
quantities of commercial fertilizer. During
the war years, nitrogen production in Ger-

16

many was diverted from fertilizer to’ mu-
nitions. Agriculture received during those
years about half as much nitrogen fertilizer
as was required for maximum production.

Since the shortage of fertilizer is world-
wide, Germany was able to import only
small quantities of fertilizer, so that this
spring most small farmers had to depend on
barnyard manure. In cities and towns it
was not unusual to see housewives rush into
the street after a horse had passed by to
collect the manure.

INCREASING FERTILIZER SUPPLY

One of the most important steps recently
taken by MG to increase the fertilizer
available in Germany was to halt the sea
dumping of 500,000 tons of captured enemy
ammunition and explosives. These explo-
sives will be deactivated and broken down
into their component parts to yield large
quantities of scrap steel and nitrogen.

It is expected that this will make
available close to nine thousand tons of pure
nitrogen fertilizer for the 1946-1947 crop
year and an additional 8,000 tons the fol-
lowing year.

Another important step taken by the Food
and Agriculture Branch of OMGUS is an
attempt to increase the acreage under cul-
tivation through the use of airfields, ma-
neuver grounds and former forest areas.
At the same time it is planned to increase
the proportion of direct consumption crops
such as bread grain, sugar beet and potatoes
at the expense of fodder for cattle and hogs.
The number of livestock will be reduced
through selective culling in order to briag
the livestock population into line with the
reduced amount of feed and fodder crops.
There again, MG and German agriculture
experts run into resistance. Many small
farms have a few cattle which give little milk
but are used as draft animals in place of
horses. Farmers are reluctant to give up
any of their cattle, since with the shortage
of consumer goods there is little that they
could buy with the money they would receive.

(Continued on page 37)

--- Page 20 ---
aes a |

OUR MISSION IN GERMANY

Understanding of German People, Realization of Accomplishments of Allied Nations

Necessary for US Personnel in Discharging their Responsibilities in Occupation

By Lt. Col. R. P. Rosengren

‘We have been told that occupation is a
tremendous policing job which is necessary
until the Germans can conduct their affairs
in a democratic manner. What constitutes
“democracy” is as varied as the background
-of the governments of the occupying powers
in Germany. But of one thing we may be
sure, that in the Laenderrat, the German
Council of States which sits at Stuttgart for
the purpose of exchanging ideas, in attacking
and solving the problems of economics, fi-
nance, food and agriculture, justice, etc.,
through the Land governments, the Germans
are learning democracy. In the committees
of the Laenderrat the ideas of Bavaria are
being pitted with skill against the Wuerttem-
bergers’ and the Hessians’ — and the Ger-
mans are arriving at compromise conclusions
based on free, sometimes heated debate. These
Germans at least are going through the mo-
tions of a democratic procedure. It is up to
us to show all Germans what democracy and
freedom really mean.

LIBERTY AND LICENSE

One of the best definitions of liberty and
freedom was given us by Theodore Roosevelt
when he said, “Your right to swing your fist
ends where my nose begins.” Confusing liber-
ty and license, freedom and piracy, is char-
acteristic of those who object to discipline in
its general sense. The kind of discipline

17

which subordinates the individual to the wel-
fare of the group is an essential element of
democracy. It is living under laws instead
of under men.

Discipline is important at home, it is doub-
ly important abroad and of untold importance
among the German people to whom training
and discipline in all walks of life has been
the accepted mode of living for centuries.

“GERMAN DISCIPLINE”

My German-born grandmother told me the
tale of a reprimand of a German soldier by
a German officer which illustrates to what ex-
tremes the German sense of discipline can be
carried. He was a cavalry officer wearning
old-fashioned gauntlets. Instead of the three
stitchings of thread or leather we have on
the backs of our gloves, he had woven steel
threads. As he reprimanded the soldier, he
struck him regulary and repeatedly on both
sides of the face with the steel-threaded
gauntlet, so that, at the end of his “lecture”
the soldier was cut and scarred and bloody
but still standing at attention and accepting
that treatment.

There is no necessity for us to goose-step

. around the streets of Berlin nor present the

ramrod-straight picture which is the Ger-
man’s ideal. But the very least we owe to
our own self respect (not forgetting duty to
our country) is to dress neatly and correctly;
to be pressed and shaved and clean.

--- Page 21 ---
The American mission in Germany is @
serious job. This mission is to help carry
out the ‘American policy in official and per-
sonal relations with the German people. It
has been said that there are two ways to
treat a conquered enemy. One, to destroy
him utterly as Carthage was destroyed by
Rome; the other, to make his relationship to
the conqueror so advantageous that he will
never again rise against him. Accepting these
for the sake of argument and obviously dis-
carding the first, we find that the second
necessitates that we know the Germans’ and
we know how to deal with them.

HISTORY OF AGGRESSION

If we are to understand the Germans, we
should look about their country and see to
whom they have raised their biggest statues.
One was their first succesful meddler in Eu-
ropean politics; the Grand Elector of Bran-
denburg (1640 to 1688). He was followed a
hundred years later by Frederick the Great,
who commenced his reign by breaking his
father’s treaty with Marie Therese of Aus-
tria; by marching into Silesia and remaining
there through the eight-year war of the Aus-
trian Succession, until he forced a treaty at
Aix -la- Chappelle to cede the land to him.
He repeated this aggressive process through-
out his reign and the same system saw com-
pletion of his plans by his fat nephew, Fred-
erick-William II, who succeeded him. Bis-
marck and Kaiser Wilhelm I prepared the
same kind of army, in Frederick’s words,
“ready to a gaiter button,” and provoked
first Austria and then an impoverished and
proud France into two successive wars. He
won each in six weeks. He set an idemnity
of 5 billion francs plus Alsace and Lorraine
and occupied part of France until this un-
heard of sum was paid. Bismarck had his
King crowned Emperor in the Versailles’
Hall of Mirrors.

PRINCIPLES ANTIDATED PARTY
In dealing with the Nazis we must
not forget that their principles far
antidated their party. The phrase “Die
Juden sind unser unglueck” (“The Jews are

18

our misfortune”), was coined by von Treit-
schke, a Bismarckian historian, not Julius
Streicher. Examination reveals that Hitler’s
ideals of militarism, his fable of the master
race, and his waging of aggressive warfare
was the same as all the Brandenburg, Prus-
sian and German Fredericks and Wilhelms
and Frederick-Wilhelms.

There were, and there probably are, some
good Germans, if on no other basis than
that nothing is so completely bad but it has
some good. There was a German named
Charlemagne, who spoke the German tongue
and lived most of his life in German terri-
tory. He was crowned Emperor of the Holy
Roman Empire in St. Peters in Rome. He
stimulated literature and education, breaking
the darkness and ignorance of the early
middle ages. He possessed a religious and
exalted strain that made men recognize him
as “every inch a king.” The work that he
did was permanent, not transitory, and
laid, the solid foundation for all the major
powers on the continent of Europe save
Russia. There were also Schiller, and
Goethe; Brahms, Bach and Beethoven; Ein-
stein and Thomas Mann.

GERMAN SELF-RESPECT

If we admire the German cleanliness,
thriftiness, family life and blooming gardens
that so many Americans praise, let us not
forget that that is where the German con-
science and self-respect ends. From there up
he takes off his hat and bows to the next
man up the line. He inquires not at all into
the policy of his government. He contributes
his work, his skills, his voice, his “all” to
whatever the “man on horseback” says. And
if we will carefully recall the newsreels from
1933 on, and the pictures which were used
as evidence at the Nurenberg trials, we will
remember the proud faces of old and young,
right arm stiff, and extended, shouting “Heil
Hitler” the same way their fathers shouted
“Hoch der Kaiser”. But, in over a year in
Germany we have encountered a mere hand-
ful of Germans who admit they supported
Hitler.

--- Page 22 ---
Then there is the planned German pro-
paganda to be used in the case of defeat.
Some Americans are echoing one or more of
the following German statements:

1. “The German only fought’ the war be-
cause they were attacked.” The attack-
ing nations, in order, of course were
Austria, Czechoslovakia, and Poland ..

2..“The Jews started all the trouble in
Germany.” The best answer to this
ancient German attitude toward the
Jews was given in December 1944 in
New York’s Town Hall by Captain
Peter Freuky, the 6 food, 7 inch, wihte-
bearded leader of the Resistance Forces
in Denmark during the German occup-
ation. He simply said, “We have no
Jewish problem in Denmark. In Den-
mark we do not feel ourselves inferior
to the Jews.”

3. “That Germany was only protecting
the world from Communism”. — Yes,
of course, and the only way to protect
the world was by taking it into Ger-

- many’s benign protective. custody!

4. “That the United States will soon have
to fight the Russians.” — More Amer-
icans have voiced agreement with this
statement for less reason than with

any of others. This plays directly into

the Germans’ hands. Remember it was
fighting Germans that millions of Rus-
sians died. So did thousands of
Americans.

5. “That the average German has no guilt
for what Hitler did.” — It is possible
that the marjority of the Germans were
not guilty of crimes of commission, but
at best, by their utter lack of collective
national conscience, nearly all of them
are guilty of crimes of omission in per-
mitting themselves peace from their
earliest historic times to the Hitler
Germany we smashed a year ago last
May.

“HE SPEAKS MY LANGUAGE”

There are many opportunties that come
with our occupation duties and one of them

19

is the opportunity to learn foreign languages,
particularly those of our Allies. The phrase,
“ He speaks my language,” which we apply
to those who agree with us, is of greater im-
portance literally than it is figuratively. ; The
slightest effort made to learn the language
of another is deeply appreciated. And there
is no better way to get acquainted. Abraham
Lincolm summed it up when he said of a
stranger “I don’t like that man, I must get
to know him better.” You will agree tothe
wisdom of Lincoln’s remark. In getting to
know the people in Germany better, re-
member it is at least as important that we
are here as it is that we accomplish “great
things” as military governors.

COOPERATION WITH ALLIES

It is also important to get along with our
Allies, the nations who fought with us. ,

In considering the British, for example,
we must remember that from June of 1940
until June of 1941 armed with sticks and
staves and pitchfork and wooden guns, and
with a magnificently-employed handful of
fighter pilots in Spitfires, Britain and its
people stood alone in all the world against
the Nazi’s thrust. The accomplishments of
the British and the contributions they made
in the invasions were manifold. Of no other
people could one conceive the assistance, the
forebearance, the secrecy and the loyalty
with which they facilitated the movement of
our great invading armies. The British
Southern Railway, with its tiny goods-
wagons, carried the rough equivalent of one-
quarter of the combined railroads of the US
in that operation, and maintained schedules.
The experience of centuries of colonial gov-
ernment evolved a skill which has contrib-
uted greatly to intelligent quadripartite
discussions.

We are prone to forget some things when
“the game is over” or the fighting stops.
One of the things we should never forget is
that we would probably not yet be here in
an occupation army had it not been for
rivers of blood — Russian blood — that

--- Page 23 ---
1945 -1946
“ONE YEAR O

“, ,..-Our program in Germany: is a difficult pr
sibility for self government to the German peopl
cation of the German people to a liberal philosoph:
measures tmpered with considerate courtesy and ai

mocracy .

.’ — General Clay.

(Lett) Two German carpenters help in the rebuilding of 2 church in Wurzburg
which was badly damaged by the war. (Below) Children in Frankfurt
pay nursey are initiated in to Democratic Life.

Signal Corps Photcs

--- Page 24 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

gram ... it calls for the restoration of the respon-
through democratic processes. It requires the reedu-
of life. It requires firm justice in exacting punitive
to those in Germany who will -work to restore de-

(Right) A Wiesbaden printer proofreads a copy of a political paster as
German presses grind out start towards political freedom. (Below) Section
of a huge throng which gathered at Heidelberg’s celebration of first free
May Day since the advent of the Nazis.

Signal Corps Photos

--- Page 25 ---


--- Page 26 ---
1945—1946
ONE YEAR OF MG

Free elections have been held
in the US Zone(left); transportation
and communication facilities are
working effectively under German
control subject fo MG supervision
(below and right).

Signal Corps Photos

Stress

--- Page 27 ---
“|. Our program in Germany ... demands the punishment of those who led
Germany into the suppression of individuil rights and then into aggressive war with
ruthless purpose ... The German Army is disbanded. Nazi leaders have been con-
fined and the German people . . . are cleansing this element from their own
society .. .” —- General Clay.

--- Page 28 ---
Hermann Goring stands
trial for the crimes he
committed during the
Nazi regime (above);
Nazi prisoners en route
by plane to Poland to be
fried as war criminals
(right). Signal Corps Photos

--- Page 29 ---
1945—1946
ONE YEAR OF MG

--- Page 30 ---
(Left) a Group of Jewish children found in the Frankfurt area, part of
he millions of persons resettled and repatriated during the past year;
(below) leaders of German labor parties shaking hands af a Berlin
political rally symbol of the new leadership developing in German political life.

et Signal Corps Photos

--- Page 31 ---
(Above and upper right) The Allied Control. Council, during the past year the instrument for Quadripartite rule
of Germany; (below) the remains of a giant German munitions -factory at Kautburen, blown up by the
US:Army. aspart of the American demolition program for reducing Germany's war-potential; (lower right) train
carrying parts of power plant dismantled for shipment to the Soviet Union as compensation’ for Russian war losses,

Signal Corps Photos

4945-1946
ONE YEAR OF MG

--- Page 32 ---
‘

“ ... War plants and war installations have been destroyed

and heavy industrial plants
have been selected for reparations purposes...

huge industrial combines which made war

possible no longer are in operation In the Allied Control Council, military government

has learned much from its relationship with the three other occupying powers ... many
measures have been enacted and are now being applied to all four zones of Germany .. .”

— General Clay.

--- Page 33 ---
Decree Orders Employment
For All Bavarian Youths

All unemployed Bavarian youths between
14 and 18 years of age will be gainfully
employed this year, according to a new
decree by the Bavarian ministry of labor.

Acting under directive No. 3 of the Allied
Control Council regarding the registration of
all unemployed persons and their use in gain-
ful occupations and with permission of Mi-
litary Government, the ministry of labor has
ordered organization of a “Bavarian Youth
Work 1946-47” to put all unemployed young
people of either sex to work. Purpose of the
decree, which went into force 15 June, is to
save youth from the dangers inherent in un-
employment, the preamble says.

According to the decree, all Bavarian
youths between 14 and 18 years of age who
are not employed at present will have to
participate in the Youth Work from which
they will be released as soon as regular jobs
are open to them.

Participation in the Youth Work is made
a condition of later regular employment and
those consistently refusing to participate will
be liable to the punishment set in Control
Council directive 3, a maximum fine of 1,000
marks or maximum imprisonment of three
months.

Employment in regular work is to be
handled by labor offices, employment in other
work by charity societies, trade unions or
political parties. Work of this kind mentioned
in the decree iricludes participation in debris
removal in the damaged cities, helping in
agriculture or truck gardening, clearing of
land for new vegetable plots, work in social
institutions such as kindergardens, or old
people’s home sewing rooms.

In addition girls may be sent to serve a
“household year” with accent on training as

30

future housewives. ?

In giving regular employment to youths,
labor offices are instructed to prefer, in order,
youths who want to learn a trade in which a
shortage of skilled men exists, youths who
have served part of their apprenticeship and
wish to conclude it, youths of the older age.
brackets and youth in -unfavorable social
conditions.

’ Election Observers

Representatives of the British, Soviet and _
French occupation forces had an opportunity
to observe voting procedure in the Constitut-
ional Assembly elections recently held
throughout the American Zone, when they
were guests in Wiesbaden of American elec-
tion officials.

All phases of the election were made ac-
cessible to the visitors so they could obtain
first-hand information: The delegates observ-~
ed procedure followed at voting booths, and
interviewed election representatives and of-
ficials of the Greater Hesse Government.

Mutilated Currency

The procedure to be adopted for the re-
placement of mutilated Allied Military marks
has been approved by the Coordinating Com-
mittee of the Allied Control Authority.

Mutilated marks can be replaced only if
three-fifths or more of the note are submitted
for replacement. The replacement of mutilated
marks for civilian and military staffs of each
Occupying Power shall be effected by the
respective Military Government offices. For
German nationals replacement shall be made
by German banks. The procedure for re-
placement shall be established by each Zone
Commander. The highest official currency
office in each zone shall reimburse the Ger-
man banks for the mutilated Allied Military
marks that have been replaced by them.

The highest official currency authority in
each zone is to be responsible for the destruc-

--- Page 34 ---
tion of the mutilated notes, and a report on
the destruction and replacement of such notes
shall be included in the quarterly reports on
Allied Military marks.

Supplying the Occupation

Resources Boards, consisting of represent-
atives of MG and of the military occupation
forces, have been established by the OMGUS
Economics Division. The purpose and func-
tioning of the boards were explained as
follows:

“Because of the critical shortages of coal,
transportation and many essential raw ma-
terials, the current rate of production in the
US Zone of Germany is only a fraction of
the rate considered necessary to maintain a
minimum standard of living for the civilian
population. Housing and other necessary fa-
cilities are grossly inadequate, and many
types of skilled labor are in extremely short
supply. Accordingly, in providing from the
German economy the housing, technically-
skilled labor and certain other requirements
and facilities for the use of the occupational
forces, it is extremely important that due
consideration be given to the essential re-
quirements of the German civilian population
which must also, to the maximum extent pos-
sible, be provided from the German economy.

“In establishing the Resources Boards, a
procedure has been set up for weighing the
US military requirements against the mi-
nimum German civilian requirements in those
cases where facilities are insufficient to pro-
vide for both. In all such cases the effect of
the military procurement on the German ci-
vilian economy can be fully presented and
examined before final action is taken.”

“The Resources Boards have been estab-
lished at three levels within the US Zone of
Germany. The zonal board is composed of
the Director of the Economics Division of
OMGUS, the Assistant Chief of Staff of G-4,
USFET and, as a member without vote, the
Assistant Chief of Staff of G-5, USFET. A
Resources Board for each of the three Lands
in the US Zone will consist of the Land Di-
rector of Military Government and a repre-

31

sentative of the Military Command selected
by AC of 8, G-4, USFET. As needs indicate,
local Resources Boards are being located
throughout the three Lands so as to be
readily available and accessible to all military
agencies. When a lower level board is un-
able to reach-an agreement, the case is re-
ferred to the next higher board. Should the
Zone Resources Board disagree, the final de-
cision would rest with the Theater Com-
mander.”

“It is anticipated that as the boards be-
come fully operative, the essential require-
ments of the occupational forces that must or
can best be provided from the German econ-
omy can be met without imposing a greater
burden on the German economy than ab-
solutely necessary.”

Gift Packages Arrive

The first shipment of gift packages from
the United States destined for the US Zone
of Germany and containing items for the
relief of human suffering arrived at Bremen
on 25 June 1946 aboard the U.S.S. Ameri-
can Banker.

This shipment comprising 8,141 sacks con-
taining 41,000 parcels was made under
authorization of 1 June 1946 inaugurating
one-way parcel post service from the United
States to the US Zone of Germany.

The new service will help ease the food
problem for civilians living in the US Zone
inasmuch as non-perishable foodstuffs may
be sent by individuals in the US. Other
authorized articles include clothing, soap,
lawful medical supplies and allied articles
intended for the relief of human suffering.
Gift parcels are limited to one parcel per
weck from one sender to one addressee. The
maximum size authorized for posting is five
kilograms (11 pounds) in weight and overall
length and girth of 180 centimeters (72 inches).

Inter-Zonal Trade

First deliveries of sugar and molasses from
the Soviet to the American Zone of Occupa~
tion have started to move across the Zonal
boundary for use of German consumers, ac-

--- Page 35 ---
cording to the Food and Agriculture Branch
of OMGUS.

The commodities which are being shipped
under the purchase and sale agreement reach-
ed last spring between German merchants
in both Zones and approved by MG, will
move at the rate of 800 to 1,000 tons per
week until 7,000 tons of sugar and 5,000 tons
of molasses have been transferred.

The first shipment of cattle has moved in
the opposite direction from Bavaria into the
Soviet Zone. Two trainloads carrying 800
head will move the cattle until a total of
13,000 head for slaughter. Sale of the cattle
from Bavarian farm surpluses will reduce
animal consumption of grain and wheat pro-
ducts and make that much more available
for human consumption.

In addition to sugar and molasses, the
Soviet Zone is to deliver sugar beet seeds,
legume seeds including peas, beans, cabbage
and onions, pasture grass seeds, 150,000
Pieces of measuring instruments, and 12,000
cubic meters of barrel staves for German
use in the US Zone.

Youth Meeting

The first general youth meeting in Wirt-
- temberg-Baden during the American occupa-
tion was held recently at Kirchheim Teck
when more than 1,000 persons gathered for
the “Landesjugendtag” (State Youth Day).

The participants, representing all Wiirt-
temberg-Baden Kreis Youth Committees and
youth organizations, took part in community
singing, skips, folk dances and the burning
of St. John’s fire (an old German custom ob-
serving the summer solstice). Rainy weather
reduced the expected attendance from 3,000
to 800 persons on the first evening and forced
the activities to be held indoors in the Adler
Gasthaus, Kirchheim Teck.

The next day, with 1,200 attending, the
Regional Youth Meeting, preceded by com-
munity singing, was held at the Kirchheim
Teck stadium. Heinrich Hassinger, of the
Wiirttemberg-Baden Ministry of Education,
spoke to the group on value of youth ac-
tivities and additional education. Richard

32

Schirrman, founder of what is now an inter-
national movement and President of the
Youth Hostel Association for Wiirttemberg-
Baden, also spoke.

German Official Removed

Regional MG Headquarters, Stuttgart, an-
nounced that Heinrich Kummerer, former
official in the German Land Government, has
been found guilty by the Stuttgart Military
Court of disobeying an MG order in con-
tinuing to employ individuals dismissed as
mandatory removals. The court sentenced
him to four months confinement and fined
him RM 4,000.

Kummerer, who occupied the position of
chief of the Agricultural Production Section
of the Agriculture Branch under the Minister
of Economics, attempted to evade the Denazi-
fication Laws by giving special missions to
the employees in the mandatory removal ca-
tegory and paying them directly from the
cash funds of his branch. Reports by Kum-
merer to MG indicated that those individuals
were no longer employed and were not on
the payroll of the branch.

Raw Materials for Processing

MG permits foreign individuals or or-
ganizations to send materials or commodities
into Germany to be processed, finished, re-
paired or improved in bond, provided fac-
ilities are adequate, and returned in their
refined state to owners abroad, the OMGUS
Trade and Commerce Branch has announced.

Consignment processing for foreign ac-
counts is now permitted under MG regula-
tions. German customs laws as to bonding,
reporting and control procedure will be ap-
plicable to such transactions and modified
when required.

Bavarian Appeal

The Bavarian government and the five po-
litical parties recognized on a land-wide basis
have appealed to the Bavarian people to
stand behind and fully cooperate in the en-
forcement of the denazification and de-

militarization law of 5 March.
(Continued on page 40)

--- Page 36 ---
Bavarian Press Discusses
Germany’s Future Position

Recent editorial comment in the Bavarian
press featured speculation and commentaries
on the political and economic future of Ger-
many in relation to Europe and the world,
according to a survey by the Information
Control Division of OMG Bavaria.

Looking forward io the Paris conference
to start preliminary work on the problem of
what to do with Germany, newspapers
brought forth arguments and hopes in rela-
tion fo Germany’s future position. The Neue
Presse, Coburg, stated: The planning of
European economy is made easier, especially
because the war years developed a tendency
toward international economy. It is hard
to believe that something which showed it’s
successful application during the war should
be given up now. That it will be harder
to win the peace than the war must bring
with it the understanding that reorganization
of Germany can be only worked out col-
lectively and on a continental level.”

Advising its readers not to expect leniency
or any particular benefits, the Passauer Neue
Presse, Passau, warns: “In the eyes of the
other nations, the war and bloody orgy
brought about by the Nazi regime has caused
feeling against the greatest part of the Ger-
man people, the consequences of which can
only be gradually changed.

The trials in Nuremburg, Mauthausen and
Dachau bring out again and again the hor-
rors in their real proportion. Not being
forgotten is the fact that the other nations
made sacrifices in blood and material. Not
being forgotten, too, is the fact that the war,
conceived by German National Socialism,
impoverished also Englishmen, Russians and
Frenchmen, that the food problem therefore

33

is acute in their countries, and that they
would have to be supermen to forget what is
most responsible for it all.”

German Dismemberment

In an editorial on foreign policy the Berlin
Neues Deutschland rejects Bidault’s plan for
separation of the Rhineland and Saar and
Bevin’s proposals “which also deal with the
dismemberment of German unity.”

“France’s plans,” declares the paper,
“would take away from Germany any pos-
sibility of living. The realization of these
plans would make it impossible for Germany
to live; that is to say, it would bring about
just that which was rejected in the Potsdam
declaration.”

Admitting France’s need for security, the
paper claims it cannot be reached by splitting
up German soil. “Only when the power is
given into the hands of the German people
and a real democratic regime is provided in
Germany will France find the security which
she can and must demand,” states the SED
central organ.

Regarding Bevin’s proposals the paper
said the British plans cannot be regarded as
a preventative measure against German ag-
gression, particularly when one realizes that
the war potential of the iron and _ steel
magnates is maintained.

Berlin Radio Comment

Information Control Division’s public opi-
nion surveys came in for use by Radio Berlin
which cited one survey that showed 37% of
those questioned stating that Nazism was a
bad thing, whereas 53% found Nazism quite
good but thought it had been interpreted
badly.

“These 53%,” charged the radio, “are those
who are afraid of their own responsibility
and of their own consciences . . . Even the

(Continued on Page 40)

--- Page 37 ---
PRESS and RADIO COMMENTS

CE

World-Wide Social and Eon hic

o

Program Outlined by UN Group

United States representative to the UN
Economic and Social Council, John G. Win-
ant, declared the experience of nations work-
ing together and finding agreement on spe-
cific problems “‘is providing the basis for the
world we seek to build.”

Mr. Winant continued to state that “two
of the most urgent tasks before us are the
reconstruction of devastated areas and repa-
triation or resettlement of hundreds of thous-
ands of men, women and children who were
driven from their homes by oppression and
war and will still be homeless when UNRRA
ends next year. The world cannot be restored
to economic health until substantial progress
has been made on both these tasks. On both
of them, despite some sharp differences of
opinion as to methods, the Council has now
taken the first steps. It has voted to establish
an international refugee organization to take
up where UNRRA will leave off. A draft
constitution has been approved for circu-
lation to all members of the United Nations
so that it can be put into final form and
ready for signature during the Assembly
meeting in September.”

COUNCIL'S ACTION

The Council’s action is outlined in the fol-
lowing specific fields:

1. Reconstruction: The Council established
a temporary subcommission on econonmic re-
construction of devastated areas which will
divide into two working teams, one for Eu-
rope and the other for the Far East, to sur-
vey the needs of all devastated countries, ex-
cept Germany and Japan, this summer. “The
United States felt it was essential that this
survey include ex-satellite countries,’ Mr.

34

Winant said, “since chances for speedy econ-
omic recovery of many of our wartime allies
is so much affected by the conditions in
neighboring areas. The Council accepted this
point of view.”

2. Health: The International Health Con-
ference has already started.

3. Relief: The UN Secretary-General has
been authorized to offer full assistance and
cooperation of the UN Secretariat to the FAO
and the newly-established International
Emergency Food Council in working on the
critical food shortage.

4. Organization: The Council approved
reports of six nuclear commissions, making
possible their full working basis at the next
Council session. “The United States is eager
to see them fully manned and operating at
the earliest possible date.”

5. Human Rights: Mr. Winant said, “the
Report of the Commission on Human Rights,
as it was finally adopted by unanimous vote,
included provisions particularly desired by
the United States. One of these was the
recommendation that human rights pro-
visions be written into future international
treaties, and particularly into the peace
treaties. We do not want to permit future
regimes in the ex-enemy states to violate the
basic human rights as was done by the Nazis
and Facists.”

6. Economics and Employment: The coun-
cil organized an Economics and Employment
Commission which will be the Council’s chief
advisor “on coordinating international action
for achievement and maintenance of full
employment with higher standards of living.”

7. Statistical: The Council approves pro-
posals of its statistical commission making

--- Page 38 ---
possible “for the first time, development of
reliable world statistics and drawing up of
a world economic balance sheet as a basis
for action.”

8. Communications and Transport: The
Council endorsed a world telecommunications
conference having bearing on development
of freedom of information.

FIRST ANNIVERSARY OF UN CHARTER

San Francisco led the peoples of the United
States and other United Nations in the cele-
bration of the first anniversary of the signing
of the United Nations Charter. In this
birthplace of the Charter, a mass assembly
gathered in the opera house and heard an
address by UN Secretary-General Trygve
Lie.

Mr. Lie said that the first year of life of
the United Nations should be viewed “as we
might view the life of a human being. The
important thing is that we shall be sound of
body and of mind — that we preserve and
develop means by which we shall be able
to accomplish the purposes of our life. The
fact which needs to be emphasized now is
that we have come through a year, crowded
with difficulties and filled with misunder-
standing between nations, and have emerged
from that period as a going organization.”

Criticizing those who took a gloomy view
of the UN’s future on the basis of its first
year’s record, Mr. Lie said: ‘Pessimism re-
garding the situation existing between the
nations is based largely on lack of historical
perspective.”

UNRRA’S RELIEF RECORD IN YEAR

President Truman in his seventh quarterly
report to Congress on the operations of
UNRRA, covering the first quarter of 1946,
stated that through 31 March, 1946, UNRRA
had shipped 8,251,736 gross long tons of
relief supplies valued at 1,140,419,000
dollars. He reported the United States share
in this achievement at 5,917,785 tons valued
at 750,563,000 dollars.

35

The US share, the President pointed out,
was 71.7 percent of the tonnage and 65.8
percent of the value of all UNRRA shipments.

The President, in his letter of transmittal,
said that “Difficult as UNRRA’s task has
been, the organization has, in the face of
severe world shortages, shipped over ten
million tons of vitally needed supplies which
have enabled countries receiving assistance to
survive the winter.

“In addition to food which has been pro-
vided, transportation facilities have been
vastly improved in the year since the war’s
end and seeds and agricultural equipment in
substantial quantities are now available
where they are needed.

“We are providing assistance as a matter
of humanity and as a mark of comradeship
for those who fought with us to victory over
our common enemy. And we are doing it in
the conviction that peace and security
throughout the world can only be built on
cooperation and mutual assistance. We can-
not look to a world of freedom and security
in the midst of famine and impoverishment.”

SPIRITUAL REGENERATION NEEDED

Senator Charles W. Tobey, Republican of
New Hampshire, speaking before the Ameri-
can Society for Russian War Relief, declared
the differences between the United States and
Russia “will never be as important as our
common interests and common aims.”

Recounting the “staggering sacrifices” of
the Russians during the war in which “Rus-
sia fought with her allies for all civilization,”
Tobey took issue with “some cynics in Amer-
ica, who keep harping upon the differences
in the ideologies between us and the Rus-
sians. We of America and our Soviet friends
have much in common — love of homes,
love of our lands, and a deep-seated urge for
freedom,” he said.

“T am firmly convinced that, in the future,
as in the past, the principal national interests
of these countries will not conflict . . . so [
depreciate any attempts in America to arouse
public opinion against Russia. Such efforts

--- Page 39 ---
are ill-considered and ill-advised. They con-
stitute attempts to create prejudice in a cru-
cial time, while we should be, and happily
are, striving for cooperation and harmony ...

“Nothing contributes more.to the unity
between nations than cultural interchange,
augmented trade relations and relief as-
sistance.

“We recognize that a mutual organization
of the peoples of this earth for the preser-
vation of peace just call for the surrender
of some national prerogatives by each nation.”

“To win the peace,” Tobey concluded,
“there must needs be spiritual regeneration
throughout the world. Mankind must cast
off the shackles of intolerance, of national
selfishness and greed, lust for. power, and
fears and suspicions which create wars.”

ATOM ENERGY — INTERNATIONAL
CONTROL BY UN ADVOCATED

The presentation to the UN Atomic
Energy Commission of the US plan for
international control of atomic energy has
provoked not only widespread comment from
US newspapers and radio commentators but
has also been the subject of a number of
radio forums.

Taking part in one of the leading radio
forums, the National Broadcasting Com-
pany’s weekly foreign policy broadcast, the
French Security Council delegate and mem-
ber of the UN Atomic Energy Commission,
Alexandre Parodi, said he regarded the US
report on atomic energy prepared by a
group of experts under the auspices of the
US State Department and presented by
Assistant Secretary of State Acheson, as a
“brilliant job, courageous and far sighted.”
He added that Baruch’s proposal before the
UN Atomic Energy Commission, based on
that report, “makes an excellent basis for
discussion.”

Mr. Parodi continued to say that: “Al-
though the people of France have had less
occasion than Americans to know about
atomic energy, there is a deep preoccupation
with it. Men of science like M. Joliet-Curie,

36

one of the great nuclear scientists of the
world, think that it is vital that atomic
energy be controlled by the United Nations.
I believe further that the United Nations
authorities in this field must have full rights
of inspection everywhere in world... we
must have real international control of
atomic energy if we are to survive.”

Another forum titled “Congress on the
Air” featured comments of US Senators
Brian McMahon, chairman of Senate Atomic
Committee; Edwin C. Johnson; James M.
Tunnell.

Mr. McMahon is of the opinion that the
question of international control of atomic
energy transcends all party politics. “We
are proposing to the world to turn atomic
energy to constructive instead of destructive
channels,” he explained, emphasizing that
the world must adopt an effective plan for
international control of atomic energy or go
into a state of “annihilation.”

Mr. Johnson, like Mr. McMahon, believes
that the US plan was a sound basis for
discussion and as such has fulfilled “our
obligation in offering some sort of plan to
work out the problem of the atomic bomb.
And that’s about as far as we can go at the
present time.”

Mr. Tunnell agreed that the US pre-
sentation was made for constructive
purposes, but expressed doubt as to whether
the “idea of inspection of the world” would
protect the United States. He added: “I’m
not one who believes that we have discovered
all of possible sources of fissionable atoms,
I think that the danger is greater than we
realize. I feel we are ready to give up too
much.”

DEMOCRATIZATION PROGRAM

Secretary of War Patterson Commenting
on the report made by a special investigating
board on the democratization of the US.
Army, declared that while certain practices
“need correction in the interest of fostering
dignity and decency of the individual,” no
change can be introduced “that would impair

(Continued on Page 40)
/

--- Page 40 ---
FOOD FOR THE US ZONE
(Continued from page 16)

Shortages of farm machinery and equip-
ment are another handicap to full pro-
duction. At the present time the emphasis
is on the production of spare parts and re-
pair of machinery already on the farms. In
this manner, the same amount of iron and
steel which would go into making one new
piece of equipment is used to repair a con-
siderable number of machines which are
idling on farms because some vital part has
worn out.

The responsibility for maximizing agri-
culture in the US Zone is being turned over
to competent and carefully-screened German
officials and organizations as rapidly as
possible. Except in cases involving major
decisions or requiring quadripartite action
or coordination, German food and agriculture
officials are now authorized to take all
necessary action under established policies
without obtaining prior approval of MG.

All actions taken as the result of decisions
by the Laenderrat or by the Land Govern-
ments are subject to review by MG and
possible revocation if such action is not ac-
possible revocation if such action is not in ac-
cordance with specified policies and standards.

FOOD MINISTRIES

There is a Food and Agriculture Adminis-
tration or Ministry in each of the three
Laender of the U.S. Zone. These ad-
ministrations are organized approximately
along the same lines in each Land. In each,
there are two main divisions, one for food
and one for agriculture, which function
through subordinate food and agriculture
agencies in counties (Kreise), townships (Ge-
meinden) and city districts (Stadtbezirke).
The Agricultural Division supervises farm
extension services, agricultural schools and
farmer’s organizations and exercises func-
tions of real property, administration, land
development and resettlement. The Food
Division is responsible for overall adminis-
tration of controls over the production,
delivery, marketing, processing, storage and

37

distribution of food to the ultimate consumer
and for allocation of agriculture and pro-
cessing supplies to producers and processors.

The activities and programs of the three
Land food and agriculture administrations
are coordinated through the Council of Min-
ister Presidents (Laenderrat). The Laender-
rat has several permanent committees in-
cluding a Food and Agriculture Committee.
This committee consists of the Ministers of
Food and Agriculture for Bavaria and
Greater Hesse and the Minister of Econ-
omics for Wuerttemberg-Baden. It has a
permanent working staff and 16 working
parties or sub-committees covering important
fields for which the main committee is
responsible.

COMMISSIONER FOR US ZONE

There is also a Commissioner for Food and
Agriculture in the US Zone, who is directly
responsible to the Laenderrat and who acts
as chairman of the main Committee for
Food and Agriculture. He will exercise
broad power delegated by the three Minister
Presidents and by the Laenderrat in order to
strengthen the production, collection and
distribution of food in the Zone during the
present critical emergency.

Yes, the Germans are hungry. They are
not getting enough to eat to meet nutritional
standards. But remember that the Poles,
Greeks, French and Dutch starved for years
under German occupation so_that the master
race might be well-fed. And remember what
the leaders of the Third Reich promised their
people as hunger stalked Europe during the
last years of the war — that Germany would
be the last country to suffer from lack of
food. Now the tables are turned. Germany
will be the last country to have enough to
eat. But if you hear anyone claim that we
are deliberately starving Germany, remind
him of more than 700,000 tons of food turned
over to the Germans in our Zone and ask
whether we would have received as good
treatment had the United States been the
occupied country.

--- Page 41 ---
OUR MISSION IN GERMANY

(Continued from Page 19)

flowed into the Volga at Stalingrad; and for
their brothers who pushed irrestistibly west-
ward. We sometimes forget, in appraising
both enemy and friend, that past history is
one of the best indications of the future. In
that light, let us remember that the only
major nation in the world with whom we
have never fought a war is Russia, that Rus-
sia was the first nation to officially recognize
our revolutionary government, just as we
were the first major nation to recognize
theirs. That, aside from the surmountable
language barrier, there is perhaps no people
more nearly like Americans in diversity of
peoples and outlook toward life and, the
things people desire than Russians of today.
Just remember our ancestors only 29 years
after our revolution if we are inclined to
criticize. And then the French! — It was
Louis XVI of France

splendid work of the French Forces of In-
terior and the Maquis. At Toulon, ships of
the French Navy were scuttled by their own
sailors when Hitler moved into Southern
France. That act of destruction was the
heroic rebirth of the French spirit which
will go on. And it should be remembered
that the French, after five years of German
occupation, five years of separation of hus-
bands and wife, five years of concentration
camps, had to bear an American Army of
occupation and a British Army of Occupation
after the war was over. We can never forget
the debt that we owe France, nor the very
recent date of a discharge of a part of that
debt by us. Even that girl on Bedloe’s Is-
land in New York Harbor that most of us
long so to see — Miss Liberty — was the
gift of the French who took the precepts of

our Declaration of In-

— thanks to the per-
suasion of Benjamin
Franklin — who sent
to the United States
the first two Chiefs
of Engineers. The
French Engineers for-
tified both New York

Lt. Col, R. P. Rosengren Is Deputy Chief of the Civil Service
Branch, Civil Administration Branch, OMGUS. A graduate
ot Cogate and the University of Bu'falo Law School, Lt. Col.
Rosengren eniered the army in July 1941. After serving with
the General Staff in Washington where he was one of the
co-authors of the army orientation program, he was assigned

fo SHAEF and participated In the D-Day invasion of Europe

dependence into their
revolution and made
them live.

Our Allies, the mem-
bers of the sixteen
Military Missions to
Occupied Germany and
the Germans judge us

and Boston Harbors
and no navy has dared enter either. It was
these French engineers whose plan was ad-
opted when the Military Academy at West
Point was founded. Its engineering school is
the mother of every engineering school in
the US and hence of engineering mass pro-
duction which was our unmatched contri-
bution in the late World War. The French
sent LaFayette and Rochambeau; they sent
a fleet; they sent money.

At the time of the first anniversary of
D-Day in southern France, veterans of the
3rd, 45th and 36th Divisions and paratroop-
ers who had been dropped behind the
enemy lines revisited the beaches, the moun-
tains and the terraced hills of the Alps
Maritime, and recalled the costly difficulty,
if not impossibility, of accomplishing their
assigned missions, had it not been for the

38

by our words, our
actions and reactions. They are of greater
effect than official policy statements; they
are interpreted as reflecting the character of
Americans in general. The success of a mili-
tary occupation is in direct proportion to our
training and discipline\in performing the job
here. In dealings with the Allies and the
Germans there are at least two choices; one
is the B-Bag approach and the other is ex-
pressed by the title of Dale Carnegie’s best
seller, “How to Win Friends and Influence
People.” By the application of the “B-Bag”
principle to our Allies and enemies alike, we
can find many grievous faults in all of them
perhaps almost as many as they can find in
us. If we choose that method we can guaran-
tee the failure of the American mission in
Germany, but if we are willing to learn the
history, a bit of the language, the culture

--- Page 42 ---
and contributions to civilization of the other
nationals we meet and apply that knowl-
edge in the “win friends” method, we can
make an incalculable contribution to lasting
international friendship. And, though we are
at the moment the most powerful nation on
earth, let us not forget that we got that way
by absorbing the best of all other nations.
Let us not forget that they still have many
things we can learn to make America still
greater.

NOW IT'S UP TO GERMANS

(Continued from page 13)

in serious or more than temporary dislo-
cations of service; and as one report on de-
nazification in the Reichsbahn put it, the
dismissal of a large number of employees
simply meant “taking up the slack”.

AIMS OF GERMAN LAW

It is noteworthy that the aims of the Ger-
man “Law for Liberation from National
Socialism and Militarism” go beyond those
of the now rescinded Military Government
denazification directives, insofar as the
latter were primarily concerned with re-
moving Nazis from positions of importance
in order to mitigate their influence on the
fledgling German democracy and thereby
assist in the assumption of power by the
democratic elements; while the German law
is directed at seeking out all culpable
Nazis and militarists, in whatever positions
they happen to be, and imposing punitive
sanctions beyond mere removal of exclusion
from employment. Four main instruments
were provided by the law to achieve its
judicial and punitive objectives. First was
the registration process whereby every adult
German in the US Zone filled out a Melde-

39

And this does not necessitate “pro” any-
thing while doing so. We can be friends
without being pro-French; we can be
brothers without becoming pro-British; we
can be sincere without being pro-Soviet and
we can be generous without becoming pro-
We need only be pro-American
and assume the responsibilities of out posi-
tion and our leadership. And, if we do it
as we fought the war, we will succeed.

German.

bogen form (revised version of the Frage-
bogen), an operation completed in the three
Laender by 5 May. Second was the machin-
ery for implementing the law, by current
estimates now 75 percent operative: the
Ministries for Political Liberation in each

Land, charged with enforcing the law; the

trial and appellate tribunals to decide the -
degree of political guilt or innocence of
persons coming before them and to impose or
withhold sanctions accordingly; and the pub-
lic prosecutors’ offices, which have the re-
sponsibility of investigating all registrants to
determine who should be charged, and of
prosecuting all cases. The third instrument
is the detailed classification, within the law,
of those Germans held to be politically liable,
according to the general groupings of “Major
Offenders”, “Serious Political Offenders”,
“Lesser (probationary) Offenders” and “Fol-
lowers”. The fourth instrument is the spe-
cification in the law of sanctions to be im-
posed according to degree of culpability, de-
fined for each political classification.

"IT’S UP TO THE GERMANS”
Thus the plan is now beginning to emerge
as the fact. From here on in, “it’s up to the
Germans.”

--- Page 43 ---
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS

(Continued from page 36)

the efficiency of the Army or would destroy
discipline.”

Patterson approved the recommendation
that enlisted men and WAC’s be given term-
inal leave pay like officers and he directed
that they be permitted to accumulate credit
for unused furlough time starting July 1.
Saluting will be abolished except on military
posts, occupied areas and on ceremonial
occasions. He also announced he has ordered
stricken from Army regulations an order that
“officers are required to wear distinctive
uniforms, to live apart from their men in
garrison and to confine their social contacts
to other officers.”

MORE FOOD FOR HUNGRY LANDS

The American export goal of 6 million
tons of grain for overseas relief for the
first months of 1946 will be reached in July,
Chester C. Davis, chairman of President
Truman’s Famine Emergency Committee,
announced.

Herbert E. Hoover, at a meeting of the
FEC previously, reported on his Latin
American food survey. He reiterated his
statement that he found additional food for
hungry. lands as a result of “excellent
cooperation” from Latin America. He said
the American republics would make available
in the four months of June to September
about 800 thousand tons of cereals and
beans above the previous estimates, or a net
total of about 2,120,000 tons for overseas
famine relief.

GERMAN REACTIONS (Continued from Page 33)

name ‘national socialism’ was a false pre-
tense, for if one takes the trouble to in-
vestigate which of its promises have been
fulfilled one can find only one thing: war. .”

* * * *

In response to a letter from a reader who
complained of “negro music,” the radio ad-
vised the listener to “beware of the use of
such contemptuous terms... for today we
see where our race mania has led us. . .”

* * * *

Speaking on the radio’s “Tribute of De-
mocracy” program, Otto Grotewohl of the

GENERAL
(Continued from page 32)

The appeal states that liberation from Na-
tional Socialsm and militarism are prerequi-
sites for rebuilding a democratic Bavaria and
that the government and the parties are be-
hind the law and will do everything in their
power to secure its speedy enforcement.

The statement then appeals to all circles
of the population to cooperate in the enforce-
ment of the law, particularly by naming
competent chairmen, associate members and
prosecutors for the denazification courts and

‘40

SED hailed the September elections for the
Soviet Zone. “A look through the election
regulations makes us recognize at once there
will be free, equal, and secret elections,”
declared Grotewohl. .

“Compared to election regulations in other
zones our regulations are so generous as to
admit former National Socialist members as
equal citizens,” stated Grotewohl.

Other item of the program was a broadcast
of a proclamation of the anti-facist parties

expressing satisfaction with the announcemet

theat elections will be held in the Soviet Zone.

by otherwise supporting the courts. It adds
that the government and the party chairmen
guarantee that no one cooperating in the en-
forcement of the law or supporting it will
have to fear anything, and reminds the people
that elimination of the Nazi doctrines is a
duty of the Bavarians, neglect of which might
lead to loss of their right to self-government.

The appeal is signed by Dr. ‘Wilhelm Hig-
ner, minister president; all members of the
cabinet; several undersecretaries, and heads
of the major political parties.

--- Page 44 ---
STATION LIST

MILITARY GOVERNMENT ELEMENTS

UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR

LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Joseph McNarney

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, US

Office ‘of Mil Gov for
Germany, US

Office of Mil Gov for
Wiirttemberg-Baden

Berlin

LAND WUERTTEMBERG-BADEN

Stuttgart

1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)

Lt Gen Lucius Datloys
Deputy Military Governor
Maj Me C L Adcock,
Asst Deputy Mil Governor

Col W W Dawson

(APO 154)
Hq 1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart Col W W Dawson
Hq & Sv Co Stuttgart Ist Lt J P Clifford

Stuttgart Area

*SK Stuttgart Stuttgart Lt Col C L Jackson
*LK Béblingen Béblingen Ist Lt O P Johnson
*LK Esslingen Esslin; Capt H D Peterson
*LK Ludwigsburg Ludwigsburg Ist Lt E R Gramm
*LK Waiblingen Waiblingen Capt J B Cress
*LK Backnang Backnang Ist Lt R R Mayer
*LK Leonberg Leonberg Capt W J Vallaza
*LK Niirtingen Niirtingen Maj S A Warren
*LK Vaihingen Vaihingen Ist Lt U S Aiello
Mannheim Area ‘
*SK Mannheim Mannheim Maj M L Hoover
*SK/LK Heidelberg Heidelberg > Lt Col W T Burt
*LK Buchen Buchen 1st Lt G H Wright
*LK Mosbach Mosbach 2nd Lt L Beck
*LK Tauberbischofsheim Tauberbischofsheim Ist Lt J Zecca
*LK Sinsheim Sinsheim Ist Lt D E Bedard
Karlsruhe Area
*SK/LK Karlsruhe Karlsruhe Maj W T Neel
*SK/LK Pforzheim Pforzheim Ist Lt N Semaschko
*LK Bruchsal Bruchsal Ist Lt L L Goldman
Heilbronn Area
*LK Heilbronn Heilbronn Maj M W Terry
*LK Crailsheim Crailsheim Ist Lt R E Alley
*LK Schw. Hall Schw. Hall Capt C S Keena_ .
*LK Kuenzelsau Kuenzelsau Capt C E McGaffey
*LK Mergentheim Mergentheim Capt R Forrest. .
*LK Oehringen | Oehringen 1st Lt M Korsun

* Liaison and Security

41

--- Page 45 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER
Ulm Area
*LK Ulm Ulm Capt R N Tharp
*LK Aalen Aalen Capt R H Nation
*LK Schw. Gmuend Schw. Gmuend Ist Lt J E Switzer
*LK Goeppingen Goeppingen Capt R Kennedy
*LK Heidenheim Heidenheim Capt B V Bloom

Office of Mil Gov
for Greater Hesse

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Hq Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Sv Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
US Ln Det (Ruhr)

US Ln Det (Saar)

*SK Frankfurt
*SK Wiesbaden
*LK Wetzlar
*LK Dill

*LK Gelnhausen
*LK Biedenkopf
*SK/LK Hanau
*LK Oberlahn
*LK Limburg
*LK Maintaunus
*LK Rheingau
*LK Obertaunus
*LK Usingen
*LK Untertaunus
*LK Schluechtern

*SK/LK Kassel
*LK Melsungen
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*LK Ziegenhain
*SK/LK Marburg
*SK/LK Fulda
*LK Hinfeld

*LK Waldeck
*LK Frankenber,
*LK Eschwege
*LK Witzenhausen
*LK Hersfeld
*LK Rotenburg
*LK Hofgeismar
*LK Wolfhagen
*SK/LK Darmstadt
*LK Gross-Gerap
*SK/LK Offenbach
*LK Bergstrasse
*LK Erbach

*LK Biidingen
*LK Dieburg

*LK Friedberg
*SK/LK Giessen
*LK Lauterbach
*LK Alsfeld

* Liaison and Security

LAND GREATER HESSE
Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

Wiesbaden
Oberursel
Wiesbaden

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

Frankfurt
Wiesbaden
Wetzlar
Dillenburg
Gelnhausen
Biedenkopf
Hanau
Weilburg
Limburg
Hofheim
Riidesheim
Bad Homburg
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
Schluechtern

Regierungsbezirk Kassel

Kassel
Melsungen
Fritzlar
Ziegenhain
Marburg
Fulda
Hinfeld
Korbach
Frankenberg
Eschwege
Witzenhausen
Hersfeld
Rotenburg
Hofgeismar
Wolfhagen
Darmstadt
Gross-Gerau
Offenbach
Heppenheim
ie
jidingen
Dieburg
Friedberg
Giessen
Lauterbach
Alsfeld

2

Col J R Newman

Lt Col S S Graham
Capt H E York
Capt B A Sturdevan
Capt G E Skaggs
Capt M Dowd

Col R K Phelps
Maj M E Chotas
Capt M S Clark
Capt E G Stolper
Capt J G Bennas
Capt T E Faircloth
Maj E J Emerick
Capt A G Volz
Capt P H Olsen
Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hintz
Capt L F Jones
Capt R F Gibney
Capt T W Harris
Capt S B Borda

Lt Col W R Swarm
Maj W C Gipple
Capt'G D Fexy
Capt R B Elwell
Lt Col L G Kelly
Lt Col H R Cress
Capt E T Tedick
Capt D W Shea
Maj L S Williams
Capt J F Philp
Maj L H Brown
Maj M Baymor
Capt C W Davis
Capt L R Allen
Capt S A Karas
Lt Col A Skarry
Capt H L Edberg
Capt I Bencowitz
Maj R A Gish
Capt R O Didlo
Capt N V Steenberg
Capt J S Chapin
Capt C S Parshall
Maj C F Russe
Capt H Nickelsberg
Capt H B Miller

--- Page 46 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Office of Mil Gov
for Bavaria

Hq 3rd Mil Govt Regt
Hq Company
Sv Company

Co A

*SK/LK Wurzburg
_*SK/LK Aschaffenburg
*SK/LK Schweinfurt
*LK Kissingen

*LK Kitzingen

*LK Alzenau

*LK Bruckenau

*LK Ebern

*LK Gemunden

*LK Gerolzhofen
*LK Hammelburg
*LK Hassfurt

*LK Hofheim

*LK Karlstadt

*LK Konigshofen
*LK Lohr

*LK Markt Heidelfeld
¥*LK Mellrichstadt
*LK Miltenberg

*LK Neustadt a.d. Salle
*LK Obernburg

*LK Ochsenfurt

LAND BAVARIA
Munich

3rd Mil Gov Regt
(APO 170)

Munich
Munich
Munich

Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken

Wurzburg
Wurzburg
Aschaffenburg
Schweinfurt
Bad Kissingen
Kitzingen
Alzenau
Bruckenau
Ebern
Gemunden
Gerolzhofen
Hammelburg
Hassfurt
Hofheim
Karlstadt
Konigshofen
Lohr

Markt Heidelfeld
Mellrichstadt
Miltenberg
Neustadt a.d. Salle
Obernburg
Ochsenfurt

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C_C Morgen
Capt J W Preston
Capt L R Clark

Maj I P Chestnut
Maj M B Voorhees
Capt J R Hurst
Maj G M Marsh
Capt M A Potter
Capt M Colbert
Capt A T Neumann
Capt Grodzinski
1st Lt G E Mair
Capt J J Gotter
Ist Lt G F Fechan
Capt K L Ellis
Capt R E Hellmig
Capt F L Beelby
Capt W E Brayden
Capt C Boden

Capt E E Kelly
Capt Griffin

1st Lt L K Owens
Capt O A Jenson
Capt E F Warnke
Capt J Bumic

Capt L A Lowell

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

Co B -
*SK/LK Nurnberg
*SK/LK Bamberg
*SK/LK Bayreuth
*SK/LK Erlangen
*SK/LK Coburg
*SK/LK Hof
*SK/LK Ansbach
*SK/LK Furth
*SK/LK Kulmbach
*LK Kronach

*LK Lichtenfels
*LK Ebermannstadt
*LK Hochstadt a.d. Aisch
*LK Pegnitz

*LK Munchberg
*LK Rehau

*LK Wunsiedel
*LK Forchheim
*LK Dinkelsbuhl
*LK Eichstatt

*LK Feuchtwangen
*LK Gunzenhausen
*LK Hersbruck
*LK Hilpolstein
*LK Weissenburg

* Liaison and Security

Ansbach
Nurnberg
Bamberg
Bayreuth
Erlangen
Coburg

Hof

Ansbach
Furth
Kulmbach
Kronach
Lichtenfels
Ebermannstadt
Hochstadt a.d. Aisch
Pegnitz
Munchberg
Rehau
‘Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbuhl
Eichstatt
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Hersbruck
Hilpolstein
Weissenburg

43

Col E M Haight

Lt Col C Klise

Lt Col J R Case

Capt D F Stroup, Actg
Lt Col F M Guild
Maj S Klein

Maj H L Woodall
Capt J R Palmer, Actg
Maj A C Abbott

Maj H T Lund

Capt J F Begley

Maj F W Crimp

Maj R T Boyer

Capt O E Palmer

Capt M G Stamatis

' Maj H C Kauffman

Capt W W Evans
Maj T Cleary

Maj H W Zurn

Capt J F Wyatt
Capt R J Towle

Ist Lt D J Smith
Maj R J Nielson

Ist Lt L D Franklin
Capt R E Peters

Ist Lt W C Williams

--- Page 47 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

*LK Rothenburg.

*LK Schwabach

*LK Scheinfeld

*LK Uffenheim

*LK Lauf

*LK Neustadt a.d. Aisch
*LK Naila

*LK Stadtsteinach

Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld
Windsheim

Lauf

Neustadt a.d. Aisch
Naila

Stadtsteinach

(Cont’d)

Maj F K Hinchey
Maj R E Stringer
Capt G B Jones
Capt L C Wheeler
Capt N A Carr
Maj C J Cody
Capt G N Hultren
Capt H C Moore

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern and Oberpfalz

Co D
*SK/LK Regensbur;

*SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt a.d. Wald

*SK/LK Passau
*SK/LK Amberg
*SK/LK Landshut
*SK/LK Straubing
*LK Cham

*LK Burglengenfeld
*LK Parsberg

*LK Tirschenreuth
“LK Neunberg vorm Wald
*LK Eschenbach
*LK Deggendorf
*LK Eggenfelden
*LK Grafenau

*LK Kelheim

*LK Landau a.d. Isar
*LK Pfarrkirchen
*LK Regen

*LK Vilshofen

*LK Vilsbiburg

*LK Wolfstein

*LK Kemnath

*LK Nabburg

*LK Oberviechtach
*LK Riedenberg

*LK Vohenstrauss
*LK Roding

*LK Waldmunchen
*LK Beilngries

*LK Neumarkt id. Opf.
*LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg
*LK Bogen

*LK Dingolfing

*LK Griesbach

*LK Kotzting

*LK Mainbur;

*LK Mallersdorf
*LK Rottenburg

*LK Viechtach

*LK Wegscheid

Co E

*SK/LK Munich

*SK/LK Rosenheim
*SK/LK Ingolstadt

*SK/LK Freising

*LK Miesbach

*LK Traunstein

*LK Altottin,

*LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen

* Liaison and Security

Regensbur,
Regensbure
Weiden
Pasau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunberg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau a.d. Isar
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsbiburg
Wolfstein
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg |
Vohenstrauss
Roding
‘Waldmunchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach
Kotzting
Mainburg
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
‘Wegscheid

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Munich
Munich
Rosenheim
Ingolstadt
Freising
Miesbach
Traunstein
Altotting .
Partenkirchen

44

Lt Col Hastings

Capt J W Boffert
Maj G J Geiner

Maj H L Snapp

Maj J C Robertson
Maj T R Coykendall
Capt G L Milner

Ist Lt E A McNamara
Ist Lt R W Corly

Ist Lt P J Piccola
Capt L R Mariels
Capt R G Miller

Capt R O Woodward
Ist Lt H Cohen

2nd Lt S Fuchs

Ist Lt R_M McWhorter
Capt D Stacy

Ist Lt H Fueglein

Ist Lt N Ugland

2nd Lt M V Fidals
Capt G W Cunningham
2nd Lt J D Brooks
Capt M J Jarvis

Ist Lt W W Green
Capt E J Garllant
Capt C H Smallwood
Ist Lt T B Wofford
Capt J F Leech

Capt D K Nickerson
Ist Lt F Henry

Maj E Fichter

Ist Lt M W Doane
Ist Lt T A Winkelfsecht
Capt A R Sphar

Capt J W Fleshman
Ist Lt G L Thomas
2nd Lt J C Mitchell
Ist Lt J J Mc Watters
2nd Lt P A Nesbit
Ist Lt C G Dansby
Capt R E Pike

Ist Lt A L-Stone

Lt Col R F Philpott
Capt Kurt Baer
Capt R H Necel
Capt W Lasserty
Maj E W Boney
Capt W A Lovatt
Maj C H Bischoff
Maj AH Wright
Maj M W Nitz

--- Page 48 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

*LK Erding

*LK Laufen

*LK Muhldorf

*LK Wasserburg
*LK Tolz

*LK Aibling

*LK Furstenfeldbruck
*LK Landsberg
*LK Pfaffenhofen
*LK Starnberg

*LK Weilheim

*LK Wolfratshausen
*LK Berchtesgaden
*LK Ebersberg

*LK Aichach

*LK Schrobenhausen
*LK Dachau

*LK Schongau

Co G

*SK/LK Augsburg
*SK/LK Kempten
*LK Dillingen

*LK Neu Ulm

*LK Sonthofen

*LK Donauwérth
*LK Gunzberg

*LK Markt Oberdorf
*LK Memmingen
*LK Mindelheim
*LK Neuberg

*LK Nordlingen
*LK Fussen

*LK Krumbach
*LK Illertissen

*LK Kaufbeuren
*LK Wertingen
*LK Friedberg

*LK Schwabmunchen

Office of Mil Gov for
US Sector Berlin District

Office of Mil Gov for
Bremen Enclave (US)
Wesermiinde Detachment

* Liaison and Security

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern (Cont'd)

Erding

Laufen
Muhldorf
Wasserburg
Bad Tolz

Bad Aibling
Furstenfeldbruck
Landsberg
Pfaffenhofen
Starnberg
Weilheim
Wolfratshausen
Berchtesgaden
Ebersberg
Aichach
Schrobenhausen
Dachau
Schongau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Augsbur;
‘Augsburg
Kempten
Dillingen
Weissenhorn
Sonthofen
Donauwérth
Gunzber,

Markt Oberdorf
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Nordlingen
Fussen
Krumbach
Tllertissen
Kaufbeuren
Wertingen
Friedberg
Schwabmunchen

US SECTOR BERLIN DISTRICT

(APO 155)

Berlin

BREMEN ENCLAVE
(APO 751)

Bremen
Wesermiinde

Maj C A Brown
Capt N W Borring
Capt W M Forys
Capt D Root

Capt W N Dickerson
Maj E J H Newmeyer
Ist Lt H Klein
Capt M L Mott
Capt J E Thayer
Capt B B Simmons
Capt M J Groves
Maj P L Steers Jr
Ma) M Lawrence
Maj F Onen

Ist Lt H J Thompson
Capt H J Hierman
Maj A G Snow

Maj C A Rein

Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Lt Col R S Wagner
Maj R J Paul

Capt J A Morris
Maj J E Rhea

Capt R Glass

Ist Lt E A Eaton
Capt B M Green

1st Lt W M Toepser
Capt L A Troter
Capt E D Schank
2nd Lt P W Thompson
Capt SP Lubin

1st Lt O H Sager
Capt J O Renalds
Capt D G Stevens
2nd Lt P F Moskowitz
Capt D J Moran

Capt T B Greaves

Col F L Howley

Lt Col B C Welker
Lt Col L S Diggs

--- Page 49 ---
