--- Page 2 ---
INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

ROTEN BURG
BIEDEN~
OPF MARBURG
LAUTERBACH
OBER &
LAHNKREIS
ot FRIEDBERG

ae QBERTAUNUS| =
fey

OFFENBACH

DIEBURG

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH
IAUBERBISCH —
OFSHEIM
MOSBACH

: af
ete BACKNANK

LEONBER ee

BOBLINGEN Frases

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

C2>——N

:

IN MATION

Germany (Teer tory under Allied occupation, 1A45

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U. S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
photograph on this week's cover shows the
jain figure head-piece of the Veit Stoss altar

rman occupation by Hans Frank, former Nazi
rnor General. This piece along with other
Jess art freasures is being packed and
d back to Poland under the supervision
the Office of Monuments, Fine Arts and Ar-
ves for Bavaria, (See The Story of Restitu-
...Operation “Lost and Found” on page
this issue.)

FORMAT
eekly Information

ras its ‘aiary wera each succeed-
issue we will use this space to illustrate
e phase of Military Government activity for
readers. In this feature of our magazine we
ild like participation from MG personnel in
field. We are certain that many of you have
2 photographs which would be suitable for
blication.

‘lf you have a particularly good photograph,
it together with an appropriate caption and
dit line to the Editor, Weekly Information.
letin, Control Office, OMGUS, APO 742.
Photographs which are selected will be
d either separately or in connection with an
"le-currently appearing in. the magazine,

was removed from Poland during the —

JAN 211949

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Operation ‘‘Lost and Found”
Works Councils in Germany
Breaking Down Inter-Zonal Barriers
The Spectre of Narcotics

Intelligence Report
GERMAN REACTIONS
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS
GENERAL

STATION LIST

PAGE

13
15
17

20

22

25

31

--- Page 7 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Assignment of Quarters to Married Personnel
Whose Dependents now Reside in the Occupied
Zones a

Nonappropriated Funds
Army Exchange Rations and Allowances
Activation of Community Exchanges in the

Occupied Zone .

Regulations for Wearing of US Army Uniform
by Allied Military Personnel Loe
Accident Reporting

Position Inventory Control Reports

Representation of Foreign Interests

Downgrading of Monthly Report of the Military
Governor Coe ee ee

CirNo 80, USFET
31 May 1946

Cir No 81, USFET
3 June 1946

Cir No ‘84, USFET
5 June 1946. |

Cir No 85, USFET:
8 June 1946

Cir Né*87;, USFET:
11 June 1946 -

AG 537.5 GAP- “AGO, USFET
13 June 1946

AG 320.2 (PO), OMGUS
18 June 1946

AG 091.112 (sc), OMGUS
18 June 1946 ~~ E

AG 380.1 (AG), OMGUS :
20 June 1946 :

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by writing directly To the originating headquarters. .

--- Page 8 ---
The Story of Restitution...
OPERATION “LOST AND FOUND”

Canvasses from the vast stores of German and looted art uncovered in a mine
at Kochendorf where they had been placed for safekeeping by the Nazis.

By Thomas A. Falco

Restitution represents the greatest Lost-
and-Found program ever known. For more
than five years — between the invasion of
Poland in September 1939 and the military
surrender at Rheims in May 1945 — Ger-
many and her satellites stripped Europe of
vast quantities of raw materials, machinery,
railway equipment, livestock, gold, books,
work of art, and goods of all kinds. Now,
through the efforts of the four occupying
powers, together with the other Allied na-
tions concerned, this wealth is being returned
or “restituted” to its rightful owners.

In a physical sense, restitution began on
22 August 1945, when a special plane took
off from Munich and landed in Brussels with
the altar piece of the Adoration of the Mystic
Lamb, painted by the brothers Van Eyck.
Since that time, deliveries of stolen property
have included paintings by the ton, archives

ao

by the truckload, and machinery by the
freight-car load.

But the thought, hard work, and organi-
zation which made possible that historic air
cargo to Brussels — and which is now pay-
ing off in terms of steadily mounting de-
liveries of restitutable property — goes back
to the early days of 1943, after El Alamein
and the landings in North Africa and during
the Battle of Stalingrad.

On 5 January 1943, 18 of the Allied
nations,* including representatives of govern-
ments in exile, met in London and announced
an “Inter-Allied Declaration against Acts of
Dispossession Committed in Territories under
Enemy Occupation or Control.” In sub-
stance, these nations went on record to the
effect that they reserved the right to declare

* Australia, Belgium, Canada, China, Czechoslo-
vakia, France, Greece, India, Luxembourg, the Nether-
lands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Union of South
Afriga, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Kingdom, United States, Yugoslavia.

--- Page 9 ---
invalid transfers of property in countries
occupied or controlled — directly. or in-

directly — by Germany. The London De-;

claration was, in the first instance, a formal
reiteration of the historical moral and legal
principle that neither the person who steals
property nor the one who may. later co e
into possession honestly receives: “title. :
also put’ the: Axis’ powers on notice thaf,
when the time for reckoning came, even’ ‘ap-

: ey ‘legal transactions — ‘such as Goe-

‘rings’s purchases. of. French art with, stolen

vit.

7 July 1945, by issuance of the first Military |

Government Regulations. This directed the

, Commander-in-Chief of the U. S. Forces of

r

By

francs —+ would be declared null a void."

POLICY INTO ACTION
In, September :1944, shortly; after U. 8.
troops rolled. across the Germarj border to-

ward Aachen, SHAEF promulgated Law Bois
It was. then that the policy implicit: in the’

~ London Declaration 5 aa to be. translated

into action. , BS v ‘

‘ Lay. 525 made’ ‘ll property in, Senin

subject: to” ‘ig pe and management by the

1. Jnilitary. governinent: ‘Scopeidfthe law was.

broad. Not only did it cover property owned
or controlled — directly or indirectly — by
the German government, its political sub-
divisions, and agencies, but it also extended
to the property of organizations and clubs
dissolved by the military government, to
the governments and citizens of any nation
at war with the Allies, and to absentee own-
ers, including United Nations governments
and their citizens.

Law 52 banned transactions in all cultural
materials and objects of value or importance,
regardless of ownership. The ban also cov-
ered property owned or controlled by re-
ligious, charitable, educational, cultural, and
scientific institutions. Everyone having cus
tody of property covered by the SHAEE
law was directed to hold it subject to the
direction of the military government. Such
custody carried specific responsibilities (such
as preservation, keeping of records, and
safekeeping).

With respect to restitution poli¢ysand
operations in the U. S. Zone, Law 52 was
underlined by Directive 1067 of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, which was implemented on

Occupation to carry out any program of
. ,Festitution embodied in Allied agreements.
Soon after, the altar piece of the Adoration:
of the Mystic Lamb was shipped aboard a

plane for its flight “home” to Brussels. .This -

was followed by the return to France. of.
stained glass windows taken from the Ca-
thedral -of Strasbourg, and to Belgium of
oie statue of the Madonna and
Child. ©

Although the job of returning stolen prop-
erty ‘is physically. mammoth . and,. where
measurable in money, runs into many mil-
lions of dollars, progress so far in the U. 8.
Zone has been significant. Missions from the
Netherlands, France, Belgium, Luxemboyrg,

Czéchosloyakia,. Norway, ; Yugoslavia, Den=.
matk, - and” Poland have reported to a

Restitution. ‘Branch at Frankfurt: Hoechst.

. Ammunition, auto tires, ane arts and ee Revs:

tiles have been returned to France; electric
motors, machine tools, and winches to the
Soviet Union; power equipment and electrical
machinery.to Norway; archives, paintings,

Superstructure of the
mine in Kochendort.

--- Page 10 ---
harbor equipment, livestock and scientific in-
struments to the Netherlands; paintings,
Army-museum pieces and industrial equip-
ment to Czechoslovakia.

THE LARGER JOB AHEAD

With respect to cultural objects, restitution
to their rightful owners among the Allied
Nations is only part of the broad task of
breaking up the mountain of Nazi loot.

Repositories also contain cultural materials
of every description owned by the Germans,
and these must eventually be returned to
their rightful owners. A denazified art ad-
ministration which will assume its normal
tasks must be reconstructed. And, most im-
portant, there is the matter of preserving
priceless works of art. Wherever these may
be and whoever the owners, the policy in
the US Zone is to protect them as a world
heritage.

The beginnings of this policy go back to
July 1943, when the President of the United
States created a commission for the protec-
tion of monuments and cultural objects in
war areas.

Early in 1944, in London, an organization
was perfected to carry out this policy in the
European theater on a staff level. Shortly
after the landings in Normandy, SHAEF di-
rectives began to put this policy and or-
ganization into execution. In July 1945,
when the US Military Government in Ger-
many became operational, the Monuments,
Fine Arts and Archives Section was set up.
Its mission was the preservation of churches,
palaces, convents, monasteries, public build-
ings, museums, parks, libraries, and im-
movable statues, as well as paintings, sculp-
ture, musical instruments, manuscripts, scien-
tific material, and records of all kinds.

(Continued on Page 16)

German workers at a siding in Nirnberg help unload one of the
twenty cars of looted art which the Office of Monuments and
Fine Arts Archives for Bavaria is returning to Crakow, Poland.

--- Page 11 ---
Democratic Methods of Handling Employer-Emplo a
Abolished During Nazi Regime Now Restored by Mil

The history of works councils in Germany
dates back to February 20, 1849 when
members of the revolutionary Parliament in
Frankfurt attempted to have workers rep-
resented in industry. Their plan was to
organize shop committees in each factory,
consisting of members elected by the workers
and the owners of the factory. The com-
mittees would mediate disputes between the
employer and the employee and also carry
on various other functions. This plan was
not adopted by the Parliament, since at that
time it was considered far too novel and
radical.

The idea of shop committees still persisted,
however, and in 1888 a first group of shop
committees was founded in Duesseldorf.
After this as many as 30 organizations were
formed, survived World War I, and finally
were changed into Workers Councils as a
result of the Works Council Law of 1920.

The years 1889 to 1891 in Germany were
characterized by big strikes and the birth of
some of the larger unions. To combat the
growth of unions employers permitted the
workers to organize shop committees in some
of the factories, but they were not very
successful. Finally a resolution was intro-
duced into the Reichstag calling for compul-
sory shop committees. On June 1, 1891 a
new industrial regulation order was passed
providing for voluntary organization of shop
committees in factories employing 20 or more
workers. As a result of this law, shop com-

- ments of 20 or more employees.

ie

tionships

vernment

mittees began to develop quite rapidly all
over Germany. In 1906 Government in-
dustrial inspectors reported that over 10% of
all factories with 20 or more employees had
organized shop committees.

On December 5, 1916 a National Service
Act was passed which made it compulsory
to establish shop committees with plants em-
ploying 50 or more workers.

A decree of Dec 23, 1918 extended the
organization of shop committees to establish-
Finally,
on Feb 4, 1920, after the Weimar Republic
had been established, the Works Council Law
was passed, which, while it did not complete-
ly satisfy workers’ demands, was considered
by them a decided improvement over the
older laws. The new law continued the
tradition of voluntary negotiations between
management and labor.

DIVISION INTO GROUP COUNCILS

Works councils (Betriebsraete) were di-
vided into group councils which separately
represented the wage earners or manual
workers (Arbeiterrat) and the salaried or
white collar employees (Angestelltenrat).
These group councils would also meet
jointly as workers’ councils whenever the
problems of the employees as a whole were
involved.

The workers’ representatives had the
responsibility of maintaining good industrial
relations by means of the grievance ma-
chinery, protecting employees against ar-

--- Page 12 ---
bitrary dismissal, ensuring that management
complied with collective agreements and
directives of government agencies, setting up
shop regulations (in cooperation with
management and the unions), safeguarding
the rights of workers to organize, and pre-
venting industrial accidents and industrial
diseases.

A detailed election procedure was estab-
lished so that wage earners and salaried
employees would have proportional rep-
resentation. In plants employing from 5 to
19 workers a single shop steward was
elected to represent all of the employees. In
plants employing from 20—100 employees
3 members were elected to the councils. 5 re-
presentatives were permitted for 100 to 500
workers, and a plant employing 15,000
workers or over would have 30 works coun-
cil members. A minority group (whether
wage earners or salaried employees) was
entitled to one representative if it constituted
5% or more of all the employees in the
establishment.

RULES OF ELIGIBILITY

Any employee of 18 years of age or over
could vote for a council member. Candidates
for works councils had to be 24 years old or
over, of German citizenship, members of
their specific trades for at least 3 years and
in their present employment for not less than
6 months. Members were elected by a simple
majority and held office for one year. These
jobs were honorary; members did not receive
payment, but were paid for the time lost in
handling grievances and fulfilling their other
duties as workers’ representatives.

A report of a factory inspector in Cologne
in 1921 illustrates the typical duties of the
works council in a large factory. This
factory had its works council members
divided into 5 committees, with 3 or 4 mem-
bers on each committee. The chairman of the
committees would interview the workers on
certain days outside of working hours on
their particular problems. One committee
handled welfare problems. The food com-
mittee, during the inflation, supervised the
distribution and sale of foodstuffs which had

been purchased by the employer. The tax
committee handled deductions, for wages,
and similar problems. A social committee
took care of accident prevention problems,
and a complaints committee heard grievances
and also attempted to settle the problems
of those workers who had been disabled in
World War I or who had suffered industrial
accidents. The salaried employees council in
this particular firm also had its own wage
committee.

The extent to which the works council
could be effective depended upon the
strength of the unions in a particular plant,
and the general economic situation at the
time.

During the period of postwar industrial
reorganization the works councils cooperated
with management in adjusting wage rates,
and selecting those workers who could be
dismissed first with the least hardship where
partial shutdowns were occurring. After
1924, when the currency had become stabil-
ized, and throughout the remaining years of
the Weimar Republic, the works councils
tried to protect the usual workers rights and
handle grievances. The councils lost some
strength because the white collar or salaried
employees never gave them the same support
as did the wage earners.

ORGANIZATION OF TRADE UNIONS

Side by side with the works councils, and
exerting much more influence before 1933,
were the trade unions (Gewerkschaften)
organized on an interplant basis. The trade
unions negotiated basic working standards
with employer organizations and seldom
with a single employer. The agreements
between labor and management established
wage rates, working conditions, and other
labor standards.

After the death of the Weimar Republic
January 20, 1934 the Nazis replaced the
council law by the new “Gesetz zur Ordnung
der Nationalen Arbeit” or law for the reg-
ulation of national Labor. This law virtually
abolished the power of the works councils,
especially with regard to management
matters.

--- Page 13 ---
Instead a “leader of the factory” (always
the employer or the manager) handled all
labor relations. This leader was advised in
all matters pertaining to workers’ productiv-
ity, working conditions, accident pre-
vention, hours of work and allied matters by
a “Vertrauens” or Confidential Council.

The Confidential Council was elected in
the usual Nazi “democratic” method. The
Nazi factory cell leader (part of the Nazi
organization for the political control of
factory workers) presented a list of eligible
candidates to the owner or manager of the
factory. He in turn, presented this list, for
approval or disapproval, to the employees,
who voted on the list by means of a secret
ballot. If this list was disapproved the
trustees of labor could appoint the Con-
fidential Council.

DUTIES OF TRUSTEES

These trustees of labor (Treuhinder der
Arbeit) who had been appointed by the Reich
Ministry of Labor, had many duties. They
supervised the activities of the Confidential
Council, decided on appeals and also super-
vised the execution of the factory and tariff
orders. Under the Nazi regime tariff orders
(Tarifordnung) established wage rates for
various industries, replacing old collective
bargaining agreements. The trustees of labor
received advice on factory problems from “ex:
perts” drawn from the ranks of the German
Labor Front and also from the employers.
Confidential Council members could appeal
to the trustees of labor if they were of the
opinion that certain measures taken by the
leaders of the factories were not correct.

Immediately after the Hitler regime had
collapsed, former shop stewards and old
trade unionists began to form shop com-
mittees in those factories which were still
partially operating. These committees were
not elected but rather sprang up spontane-
ously. At the same time former trade union
officials met together in some of the larger
German cities to discuss the problems con-
nected with rebuilding the trade unions.

Military Government permitted the estab-
lishment of local workers councils on a

10

plant or shop level, and required them to be
free of any political party domination.
During the early occupational period many
workers councils were quickly organized.

On 22 August 1945, the Military Govern-
ment issued a proclamation which outlined
the procedures for conducting shop stewards
elections. Shop stewards were to be elected
by secret ballot, for a 3-month period, and
would represent the employees in all griev-
ances negotiations. However, they would not
engage in collective bargaining with the
employers.

In all areas of the U.S. Zone manpower
officers were besieged with applications for
shop steward elections. Generally from 3 to
8 shop stewards were elected per establish-
ment. Gradually shop stewards began to be
elected on the higher administrative levels.
These stewards were selected from the
locally elected shop and plant stewards. The
first free election for shop stewards, by
means of secret ballot, was held in Frank-
furt on 5 September 1945 at the I. G. Farben
plant there.

NOT CONNECTED WITH UNIONS

While the shop steward system was
intended to be one of the first steps in
restoring free labor relations representation,
shop stewards were not officially connected
with the trade unions. Usually, however, the
stewards were members of unions and the
Unions not infrequently initiated shop
steward elections.

Shop steward elections were the first step
in the introduction of democratic procedures
in labor relations in Germany after the Nazi
regime. Indeed, this procedure presented
the first opportunity for Germans to par-
ticipate in free elections since the advent of
the Nazi regime.

The progress made in electing stewards
has been very satisfactory. Incomplete re-
ports at the end of December 1945 reveal
that 1991 shop steward elections were held
and approved in the U.S. Zone. By April
of 1946, 2881 elections for stewards had been
held and approved. By May of 1946, 9280
shop stewards had been elected throughout the

--- Page 14 ---
. Shop Steward Elections, US Zone (excluding Berlin District and Bremen Enclave) .

August 1945 — May 1946
(Sample Study)

Areas Surveyed Number of Number of Stewards Number of Employees
Elections Elected Represented
Total Per Total Per Steward]
Election Elected

Total US Zone 2862 9280 3.2 333160 35.9
Wuerttemberg-Baden. 705 2670 3.8 86965 32.6
Wuerttemberg 293 1085 3.7 31937 29.4
Baden 412 1585 3.8 55028 34.7
Greater Hesse 755 2949 3.9 70224 23.8
Wiesbaden. 231 736 3.2 17615 23.9
Kassel 133 505 3.8 12819 25.4
Hessen. 391 1708 4.4 39790 23.3
) Bavaria 1402 3661 2.6 175971 48.1
Mainfranken 32 78 2.4 2991 38.3
Ober- & Mittelfranken 766 1853 24 85878 46.3
Niederbayern & Oberpfalz 115 280 2.4 10475 B74
Oberbayern 325 957 2.9 48804 51.0
Schwaben 164 493 3.0 27823 56.4

Zone, representing a total of 333,160 em-
ployees. Of these, 2727 stewards had been
elected in 789 civilian governmental plants
representing 106,740 employees. To date 48

elections have been voided. 219 stewards, .

representing 10,394 employees, have been
disqualified because of Nazi affiliations.

A complete report on steward elections for
the months of February, March, and April
of 1946 reveals interesting results. During
these three months a total of 2230 initial
elections were held. In addition, 2072
reelections..were also held. Over 400,000
votes were cast. 23,573 candidates were
nominated, of .whom. 12,562 were elected.
This indicates that there is ample choice in
voting and. demonstrates that democratic
procedures are really beimg carried on. Dur-
ing. the.3 month period only..12 candidates
were disqualified. in the reelections because
of Nazi affiliation.

11

On 10 April, 1946, the Allied Control
Council signed Law No. 22, establishing
works councils throughout Germany. Im-
mediately following the signing of the law
the German Land labor offices were instruct-
ed to suspend the rules requiring shop
steward elections to be held every 3 months.
Shop stewards elected prior to 10 April
were to continue their functions until
elections under the new law could take place.
The elected works councils would then
replace the shop stewards and all other shop
organizations except the trade unions.

The new Works Council Law grants
employees the right to elect their own re-
presentatives by secret ballot. Councils will
handle. negotiations with employers on the
administration and implementation of col-
lective bargaining agreements, including
grievances, working conditions, and im-
provements in work methods. They will also

--- Page 15 ---
give assistance to workers on matters relating
to social insurance, labor courts, and allied
problems. One of the most important func-
tions of the council is to cooperate with the
Allied authorities in preventing war pro-
duction and in further denazifying German
industry.

No official of the former German Labor |

Front or former member of the Nazi party
is permitted to serve on a works council.
Recognized trade unions may propose can-
didates who will be elected by secret ballot,
and who may not hold office for more than
one year.

The new law will serve the trade,
economic and social interests of employees
in individual plants and is therefore another
step in the restoration of a free and de-
mocratic trade union procedure in the con-
duct of labor relations in Germany. Works
Councils will also serve as the sole repre-
sentatives of the workers in places where
no unions are as yet organized.

METHODS OF ELECTION CONTROL

The law changes the methods of con-
trolling the elections of representatives of
the employees. Heretofore Military Govern-
ment exercised close supervision over the
stewards elections. Now more responsibility
for ensuring democratic elections will be
placed upon the German people themselves.
Further, the association of the trade unions
with the council elections will be relied
upon to provide democratic safeguards.
Military Government officers will be relieved
of much detailed work. Their function now
will be to see that the actions of the councils
are not contrary to the objectives of the
allied occupation.

How does the new Works Council law
promulgated by the Allied authorities differ
from the Weimar Republic law?

“Under the 1920 law the works councils
had access to information on all of manage-
ments’ affairs which affected collective
bargaining agreements and employee activ-
ities. Works council members received
quarterly reports from management relating

12

to plant progress and labor demand. They
were also. informed in advance of the em-
ployer’s intentions with regard to hiring and
firing of workers. Members were given the
right to elect one or two persons to the board
of directors of a firm, with the right to
attend director’s meetings and cast a vote.
Further, all industrial and commercial
establishments employing 300 workers or
more or 50 salaried employees were required
to submit a yearly balance sheet and a profit
and loss statement: to the works council.
Needless to say, many employers used.
various methods to circumvent these pro-
visions.

Under the new law there is no longer a
distinction between salaried and manual
workers. All are to be represented in a
single body.

WORKS COUNCILS OPTIONAL

The establishment of works councils is
now optional, according to the discretion of
the employees. The only provision is that
elections should be carried out according to
democratic principles by secret ballot. In the
old law works councils had to be elected
whereever 20 or more employees are em-
ployed.

Many German workers, writers and others
have expressed disappointment in the new
law, stating that it gives the representatives
of the workers less rights than the Weimar
law. They are of the opinion, however, that
the works councils can only draw their
strength from the trades unions, and that the
unions will play a decisive role in educating
the German workers to the true meaning of
democracy.

The allied authorities consider it their
responsibility to provide for basic demo-
cratic procedures in the conduct of labor
relations. Where- workers desire additional
participation in management responsibilities
they can proceed to attain them through col-
lective bargaining. The prime interest of the
occupying powers is to restore democratic
procedures in the employer-employee rela-
tionship.

--- Page 16 ---
BREAKING DOWN 4
INTER-ZONAL BARRIERS

Economic Officials of US and Soviet Zon
Trade. RM 100,000,000 Program En

Accord on Increased
ed For Three-Month Period.

A note of optimism in an otherwise glee are parts for cars and other industrial
‘ equipment.

The importance of this agreement to the
revival of industrial production
iét zones. ican Zone was emphasized b

to the conference. One th

was sounded by the success of’
day conference between sf
officials of the Ameri

official estimated that it would prov
for at least 50,000 persons now id
U.S. Zone of Germany.

An example of the stimul () t
is the provision for the purchase of 500 tons
of buna and 250 tons of carbon black
monthly. Fifty tons of the buna will be
used to manufacture an approximate 400,000
NVITATION , pairs of shoe soles and heels. The remainder
ich was held in Berlin, of the raw materials will be processed at
a y invitation of the Central aubber factories in the American Zone into
Administration for Trade in the Russian 950 tons of tires and tubes. Of these, 450 tons

ies now idle for lack
much needed “shot in

Zone. American military government of- will be sold to firms in the Soviet Zone and
ficials, whose policy is to remove the bar- the remaining 500 used in the American Zone.
riers on inter-zonal trade as quickly and com- RECIPROCAL EXCHANGES

pletely as possible, and the economic min-
isters of the three laender, were elated at
the opportunity to pull down some of the
many obstacles to free trade between the

Diesel motors are being manufactured at
a plant in Munich while German factories in
the Soviet Zone have large stocks of tractors
without motors. The agreement provides for

“ones the monthly shipment of 200 tractors without

During the next three months, the pro- motors from the Soviet Zone and in return
gram envisioned the exchange of 100,000,000 the American Zone will supply 600 tractor
marks worth of commodities, not through in- motors over the same period of time.

dividual barter transactions but through sales
which, over a period of time, would roughly
balance so as not to drain one zone

The Soviet Zone needs spare parts to get
farm machines back in operation. The doll
industry in Bavaria lacks glass eyes which

dipngpportionsialy. are made in Thuringia. These were among
From the Soviet Zone would come buna the many problems discussed at the

(synthetic rubber), carbon black, saccharin, conference.

tractors (without motors), industrial alcohol Perhaps the most optimistic development,

and twelve other items over a three-month however, was the establishment of six per-

period. The US Zone would sell finished tires manent working committees which will con-

and tubes, dyes, ball bearings, tractor motors, tinue discussion of many problems which the

13

--- Page 17 ---
conference had no time to consider. Textiles,
chemicals and pharmaceuticals, machinery,
iron and steel, wood and wood products and
food are the topics wyich the working com-
mittees will take up, :

In September there will be another full
dress meeting at which the results of the
present agreement will be surveyed and
further efforts made toward the goal of
treating Germany as an economic unit.

TOWARDS FOUR-ZONE MEETING

The success of the conference encouraged
military government officials to hope that in
the near future a four-zone conference can
be held in which the bottlenecks holding up
full production can be broken.

Greatest obstacle to interzonal trade in
Germany today is the reluctance of business-
men and local German officials to give up
their finished goods for marks which some-

Buna (synthetic rubber) from the Soviet
manufacturing plant in Munich with rawon

BEltese

times cannot purchase the raw materials they
need for continued operation. This has re-
sulted in a tendency to arrange individual
barter transactions, a policy which has been
strongly opposed by Military Government,
as explained in a memorandum of the Eco-
nomics Division of OMGUS which reads in
part:

‘Military Government policy is opposed
to barter transaction. This policy has been
explained many times to the Main Economics
Committee and the Laenderrat itself has pas-
sed resolutions along the same line.

“The objective, in accordance with the
provisions of the Berlin Protocol and basic
U. S. policy that Germany is to be treated
as a single economic unit, is that there should
be an equitable distribution of the resources
of Germany as a whole throughout Germany.
It is fully realized, however, that under pre-

(Continued on Page 16)

Signal C

--- Page 18 ---
MG and German Authorities Move to Prevent Rise in Drug Addiction;
Control Exercised Through Opium Offices Established at Land Level.

Narcotic control, initiated in the US Zone
in December 1945, is rapidly reaching the
point of efficiency required to insure the
supply of narcotics and their free flow in
legitimate trade, while keeping at a minimum
the illegal traffic and addiction in Germany.

Control is exercised up to Land level by
Opium Offices established in the Laender.
The chief difficulty in the establishment of
these offices has been a matter of personnel,
since prior to the occupation the control of
narcotics was centralized in Berlin. Land
Offices, each a replica of the former central
office have had to be staffed by inexpe-
rienced personnel; moreover, the inspection
system had decreased in efficiency almost to
the point of nonexistence.

PERIOD AFTER LAST WAR

With an eye on past history, German
Public Health authorities were quick to re-
alize the need for control of narcotics. Fol-
lowing the War of 1914—1918, addiction
in Germany increased by leaps and bounds,
to a point described by an authoritative Ger-
man official as “similar to an epidemie.” To
prevent a recurrence of this, statistics on
addiction are being collected and information
on this subject will be kept in the files of
the three Opium Offices. This is an innov-
ation, changing the usual custom of keeping
records of addicts only with the police
authorities.

Various factors lead to the belief that the
increase in the’ number of addicts may be
greater in the next few years than it was

15

following World War I. The first of these
factors is the knowledge that the ravages
of World War II reached many more people
than were reached in the last war, and the
suffering of the population is enormously
greater. Coupled with this, there are in-
dications that large quantities of narcotics,
scattered by bombings and left behind by the
retreating German armies, are in the hands
of unauthorized individuals at the present
time, and will eventually reach the black
market.

Close cooperation between the regulating
officials and the local police is required be-
cause of this situation. In former times, with
central control, a special branch of the State
Police investigated narcotic violations. As
this branch no longer exists, it is necessary
that information relative to narcotic traffic
be interchanged between the regulatory and
enforcement bodies on the initiative of both.
Arrangements have been made to get all
police reports of narcotic -violations, and
each of them will be investigated carefully
to determine whether the narcotics dealt in
are being diverted from legitimate channels.

ADDICTION INCREASING

The re-established inspection system under
which German officials examine the records
of legal distributors of medicial narcotics
has revealed an increase in the number of
addicts who are securing their narcotics
either by forging prescriptions or by simu-
lating illnesses and securing prescriptions
from physicians. Many of these addicts are

--- Page 19 ---
people who were wounded in the course of
the war and became addicts because of the ad-
ministration of opiates during: their treat-
ment. In addition, a rise in the incidence of
addiction among professional people is no-
ticed. This is a repetition of the condition
which caused some concern in Germany in
1928, when, according to official records, the
incidents of addiction in this class was about
100 times that of the population as a whole.

In order to determine the available sup-
plies of opiates, the producers, in the US
Zone were inspected. It was found that pro-
duction facilities were not disrupted by the

war, and that existing stocks are adequate
for a considerable period. Moreover, cap-
tured narcotic stocks generally have been
promptly turned over to German authorities
by MG for legitimate distribution.

A minimum number of restrictions have
been placed on legitimate inter-zonal trade
in narcotics. In order to insure uninter-
rupted distribution of much-needed drugs for
medicinal purposes, transactions with the
other occupation zones are permitted after
consultation with the appropriate public
officers.

“LOST AND FOUND”

of the more valuable cultural materials in
their possession. As the Allies advanced,
this safekeeping activity increased. Toward
the end, the Germans took just about all cul-
tural objects that could be moved, and stored
or secreted them in every conceivable place,
from mines to monasteries and from castles
to churchsteeples.

These “fine arts repositories,” as they are
called, represent one of the biggest jobs fac-
ing the Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives
Section. As soon as repositories are dis-
covered (a few are still being uncovered),
guards are posted and a spot check of the
contents is made. If the holdings are un-

INTER-ZONAL BARRIERS

sent conditions, unless some basis is provided
for balancing trade between zones, there is a
possibility of one zone being unduly drained
with no corresponding trade being realized
from the other zones. Such _ balancing,
however, should be obtained on an over-all
basis rather than on the basis of individual
transactions. Global allocations between
zones for a specified period of time covering
all major items is one means by which such
balancing could be effected. The balancing,
however, should be on the basis of a con-
siderable period of time and if possible,

16

(Continued fram page 7)

important or do not contain loot, a custody
receipt with a spot inventory attached is ex-
ecuted by local denazified civilians. If the
holdings represent loot, or are of particular
cultural importance or of great value, they
are sent to one of three central Collecting
Points in the US Zone — Munich, Marburg
or Wiesbaden.

Works of prime importance are evacuated
as soon as possible, even if they belong to
Germany or to German nationals. In Jan-
uary, Holbein’s “Madonna of the Burger-
meister Meyer” was returned to the custody
of its owners, the Prince and Princess Lud-
wig of Hess .at Schloss Wolfgarten near
Darmstadt.

(Continued from page 14)

should be sought on the basis of trade with
all zones rather than with one other zone.”

Pointing out that the major problem fa-
cing Germany today was that of economic.
unity, Dr. Rudolph Mueller, Economic Mi-
nister of Greater Hesse, declared in a speech
to the delegates that “If our conference suc-
ceeds, it will still not prove that the zonal
boundaries are a readily surmountable prob-
lem. We will prove at best that we have
again made an effort to build an emergency
bridge. However, we will be glad to tear
down even the finest emergency bridge as
soon as the chasm has disappeared.”

--- Page 20 ---
Printed below is an intelligence report submitted by an officer assigned to a Military
Government field detachment. The OMGUS personnel concerned found this report helpful,
and while they may not agree with all of its details, they thought that it was a credit to
the thinking of the officer who wrote it and to his interest in his job. We at OMGUS
expect to profit as an = from his remarks; MG personnel in the field can profit
from them also.

INTELLIGENCE REPORT

Military Government’s Intelligence Branch obtains primary intelligence
only from reports of Military Government officers in the field. These officers’
reports should reflect conditions in their area of responsibility as based upon
personal observation and experience. Of prime importance to intelligence
agencies is the definite knowledge of what standards such evaluators use. They
‘are doing excellent work in carrying out the directives of the moment. Coopera-
tion and liaison is excellent, should become even better with the smaller per-
sonnel able to deal directly with each other informally. Still, the officer in the
field has little opportunity to study the bigger picture of the Occupation as a
whole. As a result, the small beginnings of trends at his level are often over-
looked.

A number of personnel have little training in intelligence even less in Ger-
man politics and history. The average Military Government officer in the field
is no barometer. Individuals vary in their personal attitudes from unrelenting

“Kraut-haters” to sympathetic samaritans who bemoan the fate of the Biers
German. :

CHANGING MG FUNCTION

The work of Military Government up to the present and the results of that
work have been covered in multitudinous previous reports from all agencies
and functions concerned and have been incorporated in general reports reflect-
ing the entire Zone of Occupation. Consequently, they need not be detailed
again. At the time of writing, one can safely state that the primary and secon-
dary stages of the Occupation are either completed or are included in a current
program. Due to the peculiar operation of Military Government, the constant
interchange of directives instituting policy and reports reflecting the influence
of such policy upon the population and area introduce a fluid situation. This
state of affairs can be expected to continue well into the final stage which we
are now entering. The shifting of authority and responsibility to the German
officials gains two objectives:

1, The reduction of Military Government personnel in the field is made
possible, thereby eliminating as far as practicable all contact between the Oc-
cupation Forces and the German administrative machinery, and

2. The control of the situation by a central coordinating agency is strength-
ened. |

seh Mire

--- Page 21 ---
However, this shift does not solve those problems of the Occupation which ~
are dependent upon or contingent to the settlement of peace treaties or inter-
national affairs. Until those problems have been satisfactorily resolved, the’

» .. -work of the civil administrations will deal with the same problems that faced
“Military Government. pa

The stimulus-response-reaction formula must still be followed with the
important difference that the reports reflecting the responses will be initiated
and consolidated by German officials.

Even at the time when Military Government maintained large staffs of
employees and elaborate records, these reports were subject to inaccuracies,
faking, and deliberate pointing. Obviously, the German mind, no matter how
obedient, will be tempted to resort to the same distortion and possible falsifi-
cation. Working on the trite but true maxim that “an ounce of prevention is
worth a pound of cure,” Military Government must rely on the observations
and investigations of its field representatives. |

The changeover from Military Government to Security and Liaison at the
SK/LK and RB levels was begun last November. Proper orientation of the |
people generally and, in many cases, the Military Government personnel and
the civilian government agencies has not been completed. Some Kreis detach-
ments interview long lines of people daily, others have a “closed door” policy.
Confusion and doubt as to the proper authority and responsibility of local SK
and LK offices still exists.

UNFAVORABLE REACTION TO MG POLICY

The most common situation created by this confusion is the case of an
individual who has received credentials or permission from a higher head-
quarters allowing him certain exemptions from local restrictions. In the pur-
suit of his duties, this individual will transgress to an extent which ends in his
detention by local Military Government for security reasons. The local Military
Government officer is backed by numerous security directives in taking any
action the situation may warrant. The action taken may be justified, or it
may be prompted by local Military Government’s desire to “save face,” or by
a misunderstanding because of language difficulties. Whatever the case may
be, an unfavorable reaction occurs. Personal pride is injured, which brings
a loss of cooperation and efficiency, particularly if the Military Government
officer is found to be wrong. The civilian population criticizes the undemo-
cratic behavior of Occupation Forces and, what is more important, becomes
more confused by the apparent lack of common aim in our Army as contrasted.
to the Wehrmacht.

Finally, such incidents usually cause the loss of those elements among the
population who were most favorable to the Occupation Forces. It is difficult
for these elements to maintain their cooperative attitudes when confronted
by such cases of seemingly flagrant injustice and ingratitude.

The second type of such incident occurs when the local SK and LK office
intercedes on behalf of its civilian personnel to countermand the regulations
of the central civilian authorities. Here again the action may not be justified.

The violations of directives on the relations between troops and civilian by
tactical units cause confusion, ill-feeling and loss of faith. The SK and LK
officer has the theoretical responsibility of enforcing these directives. Usually,
he either will not or cannot do this. The German population does not

--- Page 22 ---
ee

understand this paradox of a Military Government which governs neither the
civilians nor the military. The SK and LK officer is caught between two fires
— either the tactical units complain of non-cooperation or the civilians complain
rightly of undemocratic treatment. In either case, the SK and LK officer is
helpless, and usually withdraws from the situation completely, thus doing noth-
ing to undo the damage. Assuming that the situation is unalterable, that the
SK and LK officer just has the misfortune to be in such a position, his value
as a source of intelligence is diminished by his attitude that he has been im-
posed upon.

EXPLANATION OF FUNCTIONS NECESSARY

Two officers with two enlisted men in a Landkreis can exercise little authority
over the Germans, and practically none whatsoever over the tactical units.
However, they still feel that they have the responsibility for anything and
everything which may happen. It will require some time to orient this per-
sonnel to enable it to understand the true function which it performs, to make
it realize that Military Government exists only at Land level and, below that
level the primary task of Military Government personnel is to report, again
and again, all factors which not only are afiecting but might eventually aitect
the successful attainment of the Occupation objectives.

In justice to the SK and LK officer, it must be said that fact-finding in intel-
ligence is often a tedious job and is often dependent upon luck. He cannot
know, see, or hear everything. He must be kept informed as to trends for
which toMwatch. If he does not speak German, he faces the task of verifying
information thru several different interpreters. Finally, he must be freed as
much as possible from specific responsibility for reports, and from housekeeping
tasks such as administrative work, entertainment of visitors, and personal
participation in troop activities.

IMPORTANCE OF OBSERVING CONDITIONS

The present preoccupation of the local SK and LK officers with the flow of
directives over their desk very often interferes with their ability to get out and
observe conditions in their area or to even attempt to know what is going on.
A recent example is the case of “Koch and the refugees in Bavaria”. The letter
of instructions issued by Koch relayed to all Regierungspraesidenten, Land-
raete, and Oberburgermeister. As clearly contrary to Military Government
directives, it should have elicited an immediate response from the SK and LK

’ officers from all areas. Actually, it was reported only from scattered detach-

ments. This lack of interest and observation can have occurred only because:

a) the SK and LK officers were too busy with other duties,

b) the SK and LK officers did not understand the significance of such change,

c) the present confusion in this transition period has undermined the morale

of such personnel,
— or of course, a combination of the above.

The development of this situation was quite normal. If one realizes that the
work of the various functions, branches, and sections during the past year en-
compassed every phase and expression of life in the US Zone and that the
responsibility for this work was gradually narrowed down to a handful of

officers. The conscientions officer is working overtime. As‘a result, he has little

ee gee

(Continued on page 29)

ee ra

--- Page 23 ---
Freedom of the Press

Office of Information Control Encourages Editors’ Current Campaign
Against Attempts to Channel News through Official Press Bureaus

Reaction in the German press toward the
ideas of the freedom of the press itself have
been increasingly marked in the last few
months, according to the results of a press
survey released today by the OMGUS Of-
fice of Information Control.

The press reactions were partly a result
of definite encouragement given to publishers
and editors of licensed newspapers in the
U.S. Zone to assume leadership in their com-
munities, to examine and, when necessary, to
criticize the acts of their governmental
leaders. The position was taken that the
press in Germany must be organized along
democratic lines and should in no way be
hindered from getting direct access to official
sources of information.

In this connection MG has encouraged
newspaper editors to campaign vigorously
against any attempt by any German officials
to channel news exclusively through official
press bureaus or in any other way to deny
members of the press direct contact with
official news sources.

A number of articles have appeared in
German newspapers in the U.S. Zone
stressing this point. One example is taken
from the Mittelbayerische Zeitung of Regens-
burg, which said: “The Nazis first killed the
feeling of responsibility on the part of civil
servants by forbidding them to get directly
in touch with the press. These conditions
were changed when the new democracy took
over, but, no longer used to democratic
freedom and publicity, the body of civil
servants became nervous and was soon

agreed on the rule that things would go more
smoothly if some news were kept secret
instead of being brought out into the open...
it would be useful to recall conditions before
1933, when the number of public relations
men was much smaller and the amount of
interesting news in the papers much larger.”

Task of German People

Writing in the British licensed Telegraf,
Arno Shultz declares that demilitarization
of the mind is as important as that of the
hands, stating “it is a shame that the Allied
forces have to cope with a task which the
German people should take over themselves.”

Shultz writes, . . . “If everyone takes part
in demilitarization of the brain then the way
will soon be paved for a new Germany which
will gain recognition from the rest of the
world .. .”

Party Unity

The Soviet organ, Vorwarts finds fault
with the things Franz Neumann didn’t say
in a speech that he delivered at the SPD
rally on the anniversary of the party’s re-
founding.

Noting that Neumann received enthusiastic
applause when he cited parts of the Com-
munist Manifesto, the paper declares “this
shows how strongly the SPD members
oppose that group of the party leadership
which tends io reject Marxism as obsolete.

“Without referring to World War I and
its reasons and to the split which was
thereby caused among the laborers, Neumann

--- Page 24 ---
then depicted the heroic illegal fight of many
Social Democratic functionaries against
Nazism,” declares the paper, then asking,
“why did Neumann forget to point out to his
listeners that the unity of the German labor
movement was revived in this illegal fight
which was led jointly by the Social Demo-
crats and the Communists . . .?”

Declaring further that Neumann cited
some famous words by Comrade Leuschner
just before be was killed, the paper declares
Neumann should have mentioned the words:
“T am dying, but the unity lives.”

Emigration Surveyed

Referring to the current German desire
to emigrate to other countries, Der Morgen,
the Liberal Democratic Party organ, raises
objections to such thoughts.

“Above all,” the paper points out, “the
German is not liked everywhere. For many
years we'll have to pay for Hitler’s crime,
and everyone who leaves Germany when he
is allowed to do so will be accepted with
mistrust. He will first have id overcome the
wall of contempt, and until he succeeds in
doing so will be regarded as a person of
inferior class.”

The paper declares that the emigree will
always be regarded as a born German and
his ambition and ability might fall in the
face of aversion against German emigrants.

“

.... In spite of all morale difficulties
resulting from two lost wars,” concludes the
paper, “the prospects of creating for onesself
and for one’s family a modest and happy
home are best in Germany . . .”

Aims of Youth Organization

* On its “You Ask — We Answer” pro-
gram Radio Berlin recently stressed the good
work accomplished at the first parliament of
the Free German Youth, citing as high
principles and aims of the organization the
desire to secure the unity of Germany and
win the youth for the ideas of humanity, for
a brave democracy, and international peace.

21

The radio further pointed out that the FDJ
is a uniform, non-party, democratic youth
organization which is independent of all
political parties and confessions. Enrollment
and cancellation of membership is purely
voluntary, stated the radio. “This proves
that the FDJ is not a compulsory organi-
zation.”

German Political Parties

In their reporting of the first anniversary
meetings of the re-born German political
parties, the Berlin press placed particular
emphasis on Marshall Zukov’s Order No. 2
which permitted the formation of parties last
year. Socialdemocrat, British licensed SPD

organ, cited it as the “Magna Charta of
Democracy.”

Neues Deutschland took the anniversary
as a means of back-patting the Soviet occu-
pation authorities, observing that “at a time
when the whole bourgeoise world was dis-
cussing the measures by which the German
people could be re-educated, the Soviet occu-
pation forces boldly gave the task of re-
shaping German conditions to . . . the anti-
Fascist forces.”

The Soviet organ, Tagliche Rundschau
turned an inner page over to statements by
Pieck, Grotewohl, Kaiser and Kueltz, further
citing the anniversary meeting of the parties
as “a demonstration of the desire to continue
the political collaboration . .
tain the unity of Germany against all
separatist and federalist tendencies.”

. and to main-

The US licensed Tagesspiegel was the
only Berlin paper to cast a damper on the
bright luster of the first anniversary cele-
bration. Its editorial cautioned that “one
shouldn’t confuse the unity front with actual
unity.” Agreeing that unity is needed in
Germany, the paper claimed that the present
system of the unity front makes this unity
more difficult instead of easier to achieve.

--- Page 25 ---
“PRESS and RADIO COMMENTS

OZ:

Problems Facing Paris
Stressed by Stateside Editorials

The gravity of issues facing the Council
of Foreign Ministers has been emphasized in
recent US newspaper editorial comments.

The San Francisco Chronicle writes, “No
one could deny that the present condition
of indecision is demoralizing the German po-
pulation and to some extent the rest of
Central Europe . . .”

“Tf current international irritants are not
to become dangerously acute,” the Wash-
hington Star declares, the making of
peace cannot be delayed much longer. For
to the extent that Italy and other defeated
nations are denied opportunity to return to
normal order, Europe — and indeed the
whole world — will face a dreary and
uncertain future fraught with perilous
conflict . ...”

The editorial adds that the emergence of
a great new power, with tremendous physical
spiritual resources, raises problems of mutual
adjustment and understanding for all
concerned.

The Philadelphia Record believes that
allied collaboration can go on, toward new
and greater goals. It can go on by the
progress of give and take.”

The New York Times feels certain that if
the central problem (of what to do with Ger-
many) could be solved satisfactorily, “there
would be brighter hopes of solving all of
the subsidiary problems — in the Balkans,
in the Near East, in Italy and elsewhere in
the Mediterranean — io which clear de-
termination of allied policy toward Germany
necessarily holds the key.”
~“The problem of the reorganization of
Germany is crucial” states the Springfield

22

Republican. “It underlies all else in the
European peace setilements.”

US AND WORLD LEADERSHIP

Describing the world today as “demanding
new understanding and action,” General
Jacob L. Devers, Commander of the US
Army Ground Forces, in a recent speech
outlined a course the United States should
take to achieve national security and main-
tain world leadership.

“America cannot be secure unless the rest
of the world is secure; conversely, the rest
of the world cannot have security unless
America has her security,” General Devers
said.

“We must put our own house in order...
If we are to keep America secure, we must
see to it that she is prosperous and strong
within .... We must clarify and define
our course of action in international affairs

‘We must decide in the light of present
events and circumstances, what position we
shall take in the world ... America .. .
must not want anything for which she is not
ready to pay the price... We must have
knowledge and understanding of nations and
their ways of thinking and their motives...
otherwise we shall be unable to understand
and evaluate the motives of other nations.
We must also be sure our own motives are
understood by the others ... We must
work to establish a world organization . . .
That world cooperation is essential I think
we all agree . . . the choice may lie between
cooperation and extinction... We must
see that our armed forces have means to
accomplish their missions . . . Security of
the nation — its very survival — is the

--- Page 26 ---
. first mission of the armed services. In the
. last resort it is they who are charged with
making good policies of the government. No-
bddy wants another war. But everybody
knows that one good way to avoid war is
to be strong enough to prevent one from
starting.” ;

PROBLEM OF ATOMIC CONTROL

. Speaking in Chicago recently, Major Gen-
eral Leslie R. Groves, Chief of the “Man-
hattan Project,” responsible for the de-
velopment of the atomic bomb, declared that
“the key to the utilization of atomic energy
for world peace will be found in the will
of all people to restrict its use to the better-
ment of mankind.”

“Everyone of us should by now be
acquainted with the fact that what has been
created is not merely a new weapon...
We must look upon the atomic bomb as an
entirely new force — a force which can
be of untold benefit to mankind, or which
can lead to unimaginable destruction. It has
opened to the world a new field for scientific
development. Now more than ever before in
history, man is the keeper of his own de-
stiny,” General Groves continued.

-

“The problem of control gives rise to many
questions — all of them inextricably bound
up with the future development of atomic
power. It involves questions of national se-
curity, world peace, and promotion of human
welfare. It involves the question of em-
ploying the power in the interests of the
security of peace-loving nations and of the
well-being of the world, instead of utilizing
it in a weapon of terrible destruction,

“Even before the advent of the bomb, the
leaders and the people of most nations were
seeking. the solution to the eternal problem
of world peace: ee

‘This. weapon is an additional responsibil-
ity, or better, an-additional incentive to find
-a sound basis for. lasting:peace.' It provides
overwhelming inducement to. finding an
alternative to war. It emphasizes the crisis we
face in international relations and strength-

23

ens the conviction that adequate safeguards
for peace must be found.”

DECENTRALIZATION OF GERMANY

The plan for political decentralization of
Germany, expected to be discussed at the
Paris Conference of Foreign Ministers, has
figured prominently in editorial comment in
the US press.

The Washington Post declares: “There can
be no rational division of Germany into
states without a breakdown of zonal lines.
If we want the division to endure, we must
see to it that it is made along lines which
meet the economic needs and satisfy the tra-
ditional allegiances of the German people.
And this must mean dividing Germany as
a whole, not merely cutting up the existing
zones. —

“Political decentralization should not,
moreover, preclude economic unity. There
must be centralized fiscal administration and
customs union among the German states if they
are to survive and to fill the effective role in
European economy. . . It may well be that
the proposal for a general political decen-
tralization will be a means of breaking down
French and Russian objections to adoption of
common economic policies.”

According to the Springfield Republican
“Unification is an elementary urge of the
German people that cannot be extirepated. If
checked in one period, it breaks out in a later
period. The present plan for the decentrali-
zation of Germany is described as contem-
plating a division of Germany into a dozen
more or less ‘autonomous’ states, loosely tied
together — the expectation being that, once
well established, they will oppose and pre-
vent, in their own interest, the development
of a strong centralized German government
capable of powerful military action. The

theory of this, proposed plan for Germany’s

reorganization seems to be wrong, whether
considered historically, or in terms of Ger-
man culture, or in terms of ‘geo-politics’.” ;

The Christian Science Monitor writes: “It
is argued that European industry. will be

thrown out of balance unless Germany

--- Page 27 ---
functions as an economic whole. It is also
contended, with considerable reason, that if
Germany becomes a political unit, it may
again constitute a threat to peace.

“But political separation and economic
unity are not really incompatible. Small
political units provide the only safe way in
which the Germans can gain political ex-
perience which comes only with the exercise
of political responsibility. Unified economic
control is needed if the industrial capacity
and talent of central Europe is not to be
sacrificed. Such coordination can be achieved
through federalization . . .

“Clearly there are grave decisions to be
taken in Germany. The policy on a federal-
ized political structure will beone of the
questions before the Foreign Ministers’
session in Paris. American decision on the
length of occupation still needs to be made
in Washington. The ultimate purpose of
denazification still is to be clarified ...
nothing short of a fundamental democra-
tization of Germany can be accepted and all
policy must be weighed with that goal in
mind.”

TO PREVENT WORLD FAMINE

Warning that the world food emergency
would continue at least until next year’s
harvests are gathered, Agriculture Secretary
Anderson has appealed for continued sacri-
fices by the American people in meeting the
goals of the national emergency food collec-
tion campaign.

Anderson reported that the government
has sufficient grain to mect its June export
commitments and the question is to get it
moved fast enough to supply the hungry
nations. The US is attempting to export
more than 27 railway carloads daily this
month, or enough grain to supply 3,500,000
persons with a pound-loaf of bread each.

Mr. Anderson reported that the United
States has exported over 130,000 tons of fats
and oils on schedule between the ‘first of the
year and 17 May and that meat allocations
have been met.

Warning that heavy shipments of grain
will reduce domestic production of livestock,

24

Anderson said, “By Christmas-time we may
see a great shortage of meat throughout the
country. But what we now must do is to
make these grains ‘available for overseas
shipment. Our job today is to avert famine
abroad.”

EDUCATIONAL POLICY

William Carr, speaking on ABC’s “State
of the World” program, proposed an edu-
cational policy for the U. S. in Germany.
“We ought to continue to ... forbid any
kind of teaching which Gen. Eisenhower
covered in his orders (in December, 1944,
that teachers not be permitted to teach any-
thing which glorified war or militarism, not
be allowed to extol Nazi leaders or doctrines
or teach anything that would disturb re-
lations among the United Nations).”

Carr added, “We ought to be sure we put
no obstacle in the way of the Germans
themselves in experimenting with new edu-
cational developments. Finally we should
make available to the Germans, on their re-
quest, only the best advice and _ assistance
we can give for improvement of their
schools.”

ECONOMIC STABILITY

Economic Stabilizer Chester Bowles, in a
weekly national broadcast said, “Today more
than ever, we need stability to keep our ex-
cellent start on full production from going
into a tailspin.” He predicts a “flood” of
consumer goods by Christmas if the “kind
of paralysis that comes when prices are too
high” can be prevented. The Senate-House
conference committee on the OPA bill expects
a fight in restoring some of the eliminated
price control powers predicted.

UNIFICATION OF ARMED FORCES

President Truman recently submitted to
Congress legislation calling for the uni-
fication of the United States. Armed Férces
under a single Military Department of Ca-
binet status.

A twelve-point program was the outgrowth
of ideas of both Army and Navy, and of

(Continued on page 30)

--- Page 28 ---
GENERAL

Temporary Werk Permits

Responsibility for the issuance of tem-
porary work permits under the provisions
of the Law for Liberation from National
Socialism and Militarism has been transferred
by OMGUS to the Ministers of Liberation
of the three Laender.

This function, formerly an operation of
MG Detachments, is being turned over to
German civilian authority in line with the
OMGUS policy of placing full responsibility
for enforcement of the Denazification Law
on the civilian administration of the Zone.

Issuance of temporary employment licenses
by MG was terminated 11 June 1946, All
certificates previously issued by MG will
expire by 1 August 1946, at which time the
German civil administration will have taken
over complete charge of their issuance.

Entire responsibility for carrying out the
Law for Liberation from National Socialism
and Militarism has been placed in the hands
of the Ministers of Liberation of the three
Laender, who will issue temporary work
permits in the future.

Meanwhile, the three Ministers of Lib-
eration have issued a statement that Article
60 of the Denazification Law, which provides
for issuance of these temporary and revocable
licenses, will be stringently applied. Under
the terms of Article 60, it is provided that
work permits will be issued only where
further occupation or action of the person
concerned is indispensable for public health
or safety and no suitable person who is pol-
itically clear is available.

Recipients of the temporary work permits
must not be a “major offender” under the
law, nor have owed their positions only to
the Nazi party. They are not allowed to in-
fluence management, business policy, or have
the right to hire and fire other persons.

25

Bavarian Food Survey

A survey among city residents is being
made by the Bavarian Ministry of Food at
the request of the Food and Agriculture
Branch, OMG Bavaria, to determine ac-
curately the amount of food people are re-
ceiving, and to make a scientific analysis
of food consumed in excess of the official
ration scale.

Employees of the food ministry will visit
twelve families each week and have them
fill out a special form showing exactly what
foods have been brought into the home
during the week. These amounts will then
be~tonverted into calories to determine the
actual caloric allowance for each family
member.

Since assurances haye been given that the
survey will be confidential and no questions
will be asked regarding sources of any food,
MG officials believe it will give food experts
a more accurate picture of the diet of Munich
residents than has been possible heretofore.

Sentenced Under New Law

The first German tribunal in Wiirttem-
berg-Baden to try a German under the new
Law for Liberation from National Socialism
and Militarism has found George Sturm, 57
year-old milling machine operator, guilty as
a category 2 offender on charges of being
an active Nazi and sentenced him to three
years at hard labor.

Sturm was convicted of treating foreign
civilians in Germany contrary to international
law by confining, slapping and flogging
foreign workers and giving orders to deprive
them of food, and of active collaboration
for personal advantage with the Gestapo. A
mechanic denounced by Sturm for an anti-
Nazi utterance was sentenced to imprison-
ment and died in a concentration camp

--- Page 29 ---
The tribunal ordered confiscation of
Sturm’s home and real estate property and
50% of his other assets, and the loss of his
civil rights for life. For 5 years, in addition,
he is forbidden to be active in a profession
or, independently, in an enterprise or econ-
omic undertaking of any kind, to own a
share therein or to supervise or control it; to
be-employed in any independent position,
other than ordinary labor; or to be active
as teacher, preacher, editor, author or radio
commentator. Sturm also loses all licenses,
concessions and privileges granted him, the
right to keep a motor vehicle, and will be
subject to restrictions as regards living
space and place of residence.

Information Control

MG is planning to turn over the adminis-
tration of many phases of information con-
trol to German authorities, who will handle
the mechanies of licensing newspapers, per-
iodicals, books, and theatrical and music
entertainment as well as radio operations.
MG, however, will continue to supervise in-
formation control policy.

Meetings of expert committees of the
Laenderrat have been held during the past
months to prepare for the transfer of in-
formation control administration. They
agreed that the regulation of information
services must continue as long as economic
and political development does permit a free
expansion of cultural life in this field

Licensing laws for publishing and thea-
trical and musical performances have been
approved by the chief committees. Final
decision will be made by the Laendertat.

_ Child-Feeding Program

"A summer vacation plan to provide sup-
plementary child-feeding for .8,500 German
kindergarten, school age children, and, adol-
éscent workers. between the. ages: of 14:and
18, in the: citiés of Stuttgart and’ Mannheim,
has been announced by the Public Welfare
Branch. of Regional Military Government,
Wuerttemberg-Baden.

26

Swiss donations will enable the program
to open in Stuttgart about July 26, when
the summer vacation begins. Children will
report for day care at school buildings and
recreational homes where they will be under
the supervision of German personnel. They
will be provided with a ration-coupon free
meal each day, furnishing 400 to 500 calories
in addition to the regular German ration for
the five week vacation period.

In Mannheim, where the program will
also begin with the German summer vaca-
tion, the food will be supplied entirely by
donations from the American Council of
Relief Agencies Licensed for Operation in
Germany (CRALOG). Three thousand chil-
dren and 500 youthful apprentice workers
are expected to benefit from the plan in this
industrial city. It is contemplated that a
balanced diet including such items as milk
and cereal ration, nourishing soup containing
fats and some meats, dried vegetables and
potatoes, cocoa, sugar, and bread will com-
prise the variéd daily menu for a thirty-day
period.

Adult Education

The number of German adults applying
for night school courses in Greater Hesse is
increasing daily and has reached an un-
precedented volume. Greater Hessian adults
showed the first signs of interest in such
courses in January 1946, and in February,
MG approved the opening of the first
evening high school at Darmstadt.

Whereas most of the early applicants
sought political lectures and discussions on
current events, recent requests have been
more varied, The Wiesbaden Volkshoch-

-schule, latest night school to be opened in

Greater Hesse, satisfies all previous requests
by offering a diverse program of classes in
biology, geography, history, oe sciences,
and ten language. courses.

The: -pancity af qualified teachers,. and: the
lack of adequate school buildings have’ been
the principle obstacles encountered in open-
ing adult schools.. However, these are grad-

--- Page 30 ---
ually being overcome by the effectiveness of
the Education Ministry’s emergency teacher
training program, and the evacuation of
troops from school buildings.

Civilian Fuel Rationing

Stringent tightening of civilian rationing
of motor fuels in the US Zone is provided
in a program proposed by the petroleum,
oils and lubricants committtee ef the
Laenderrat. The new system transfers full
control of motor fuel and oil rationing to the
Land economics offices.

Special departments of the Land economics
offices would take over the distribution of
the petroleum products now handled through
civilian motor pools. Each civilian motor

-vehicle would receive a fuel certificate that
would have to be renewed each month by
the economics offices.

After the effective date of the new ration-
ing program all vehicles, including passenger
cars, would have to keep a log similar to
Army trip tickets. Fuel distribution depart-
ments of the economics offices would certify
in these books each fuel allocation that is
made.

New Press Law Drafted

A new press law which is designed to
regulate rights and duties of German
newspapers and journalists has been drafted
by a meeting of Bavarian and Wuerttem-
berg-Baden newspaper licensees.

New points covered in the law demand
that ownership of a newspaper must be
mentioned in the masthead, and that cir-
culation figures have to be stated period-
ically. Another new departure in the law
is a rule that offenses against the press are
to be punished as well as offenses by the
press. Particularly severe punishment is
threatened to public officials or people in
public life who obstruct or prevent publi-
cation of the truth by misuse of their position
or influence. On the other hand no ‘less
severe punishment will be meted out to news-
men who suppress true facts for private gain.

27

Attacks designed to injure the reputation
of state or religious institutions also are
prohibited by the proposed law, with
criticism reduced to strictly factual arg-
uments.

Penicillin Production

A survey on the feasibility of producing
penicillin in Germany indicates that with
the facilites available at present it will be
two years before the penicillin requirements
of the Zone can be filled. The quantities of
corn steep liquid, required in the production
“of mould, are inadequate to support even a
medium-sized plant. Installation of a
small plant at Hoechst has been recom-
mended in which to start use of the culture
received from the United States.

Summer Session Opens

Ceremonies were held recently at the Uni-
versity of Heidelberg to mark the opening
of the first summer session of Germany’s
oldest University during the American oc-
cupation. The session is being attended by
3,300 students and the courses offered include
law, theology, philosophy, medicine and
science.

Dr. Karl Bauer, rector of the university,
speaking at the ceremonies, said the whole
German nation had gained the contempt of
the world for the acts of the Nazis. He
stressed the necessity for fighting intoler-
ance where it might be found, called for
improvement of social morality and em-
phasized the value of religion in gaining the
restoration of world respect. He declared
that German youth could and must have
faith in the regaining of world respect.

Trade Union Convention

The first convention of Bavarian trade
unions was held recently in Munich. A
temporary Bavarian trade union committee
and 13 organizing committees for various
industrial unions were formed at the meeting.

During its final session, the convention
was addressed by Joseph Keenan, OMGUS

--- Page 31 ---
labor advisor, who told his audience that one
of their chief jobs was to carry the prin-
ciples of democracy into each city, into the
rural districts and into all factories and
shops. He also advised then they would
always find understanding for their work
from MG.

Denazification Proceedings

Jakob Schmidt, a former servant at
Munich University, who handed two students
over to the Gestapo early in 1943, was
sentenced to five years internment in a labor
camp by the Munich Denazification Court in
its first meeting.

The two students handed over to the
Gestapo by Schmidt and later executed were
Hans and Sophie Scholl, brother and sister,
who had been handing out anti-Nazi
pamphlets at the university at about the time
the Stalingrad army surrendered.

Arrests by German Police

Statistics made public by OMGUS indi-
cate that in the first 4 months of 1946 the
German police in the U. S. Zone made
over 100,000 arrests because of violations
of German law and MG ordinances. The
number of arrests rose from 20,000 in Jan-
uary to 31,000 in April. The increased
efficiency of the German police accounts for
the higher figure in April. Of those arrested
by the German police for violation of either

German or MG laws in April, approximately .

88/9 were Germans, 12°/) non-Germans.

Of the Germans arrested by the German police
for any offense (German or MG), approxi-
mately 12/) were juveniles under the age of
18 years. The number of persons arrested
because of black market operations fell
considerably during the 4 months but in
April it still stood at 2240. 129/) of the
arrests for prostitution were made among
juveniles. The most frequent criminal acts
were burglary, theft and violation of travel
regulations. Arrests for murder went up
from 69 in January to 88 in April and those
for bodily assault from 94 to 251. Pocket
picking and auto and bicycle thefts were
represented in great numbers but arrests
could be made in only a small percentage
of the cases. The misuse of identity cards

28.

and interference with operations of MG led
to the arrest of almost 2,000 people in April,
939/y of them being Germans. Illegal pos-
session accounted for over 12,000 arrests in
one month.

Inter-Zonal Travel

Semi-permanent passes for inter-zonal
travel are being issued at a rate of 300 to
400 a month to German residents of the US
Zone for business and other essential reasons.

The inter-zonal pass system was originated
by the Allied Control Council last December
and implemented in the US Zone by a
USFET directive in January. However,
operation of this travel authorization did
not get underway until May.

Between 300 and 400 passes were issued
during the first month of operation, but as
the operation continues, the passes are ex-
pected to be issued in greater volume. Ap-
proximately the same number of Germans
are being cleared for travel in the US
Zone.

Germans eligible for these travel permits
are restricted to certain categories, including
those employed in central administrative
agencies under the Control Council, ecclesias-
tical dignitaries, clergy, doctors, technicians
in reconstruction projects, and agents and
businessmen of enterprises engaged in inter-
zonal trade.

Each applicant for a travel permit must
go to the Public Safety Officer of the local
MG detachment to fill out the prescribed
form and prove his business is legitimate.
The application then is sent to the inter-
zonal authority section in Berlin where it is
processed. Approval of the proper author-
ities of the other zones concerned is required.
After being endorsed it is returned to the
local MG detachment for delivery to the ap-
plicant.

The passes are generally issued for a six-
month period, but some are valid for shorter
periods according to the business to be trans-
acted. No cases of abuse of this privilege
have been reported, but is has been found
that many applicants do not fall into cate-
gories specified by the Control Council and
USFET directives as being eligible for a
travel permit of this type.

--- Page 32 ---
INTELLIGENCE REPORT (Continued trom page 19)

time for true intelligence work. The other
kind is useless anyhow.

Theoretically, other intelligence sources,
such as CIC, CID and MI, are available.
They serve mainly as indicators. In many
cases, their personnel also has been riddled
by redeployment. They are kept more than
busy by matters which fall specifically under
their responsibility. The military mind is
trained to break down responsibility into
clearly defined units and to demand an
accounting from those responsible. This re-
sults in a tendency among personnel to
divide all duties into two categories, the
“reply-by-indorsement” kind, and the “do
it — if you feel like it” kind.

MG’AND CIVIL ADMINISTRATION

The civil administration is still Military
Government’s baby. The intricate and
rapidly evolved system of self-government
for the Germans was conceived by us. We
must keep it operating. Other occupation
agencies are disinterested. Tactical personnel
have little or no conception of the interlock-
ing structure of the German administration.
Too abrupt attempts to interest such units
often leads to unexpected and disastrous
results. This again can be explained by the
fact that in a line outfit, an order is still
an order, and in Military Government, a
directive becomes a guide, nine times out of
ten. Even the use of informers and the
denunciations of one official against another
as checks on the civilian administration are
of interest to, and can be followed thru
most effectively by Military Government
personnel.

In summation, it can be said that the SK.

and LK officer is not quite sure of his new
position. The tendency to settle problems
on the spot, to act in cases which are not
emergencies is still prevalent. As the autho-
rity and, thereby, the direct responsibility
of the SK and LK officer is reduced, he

29

must be fully acquainted with his new task
as observer, as liaison, as representative of
Military Government but not for Military
Government. -

If the present program of “Selbstverwal-
tung” is to be continued, the intelligence
work of the SK and LK officers in the Kreis
capitals is indispensable. The relaxation of
vigilance on his part or his inability to
diagnose the facts will result in local unrest
and corruption. One such case, left to fester

‘undisturbed, can upset the plans for the

whole area. Such a statement sounds pes-
simistic and exaggerated, yet much of the
work of Military Government has been con-
cerned with the rooting out of well-
camouflaged Nazis or criminal elements.
With the reduction of personnel, those SK
and LK officers remaining will be faced
with the prospect of having to choose
between the important and the trivial. They
will need any and all help possible to
accomplish this. Furthermore, as they have
less contact with other military personnel,
and as their families begin to fraternize,
these SK and LK representatives will begin
to incline more and more to the German
point of view. Such a reaction cannot be
condemned, but it must be recognized in the
evaluation of their reports.

NECESSITY OF DILIGENCE

The small detached command also has a
tendency to drift into sloppy habits, to fake
reports and to regard all higher headquar-
ters representatives as disturbers of their
peace. IG and command inspections can be
used to force adherence to military re-
gulations, but only on appeal to the per-
sonal initiative and pride of the officer will
make him strive to do good intelligence work
in human relations. It remains a peculiarity
of such intelligence that facts can be found
only by diligent observation and evaluation,
and as long as such observation and eva-
luation continue, new facts are discovered.

--- Page 33 ---
PRESS COMMENTS (Continued from page 24)

the President’s mediation on the points on
which the two services failed to agree. War
Secretary Patterson and Navy Secretary
Forrestal agreed to accept the President’s
decision on the points of difference.

The President made known his recom-
mendations in a letter to the Senate and
House Chairmen of the Naval and Military
Affairs Committees and said the plan had his
“unqualified approval,” as well as pledged
support of the Army and Navy.

In the proposed program, the three co-

ordinate services — Army, Navy and Air
Force — would be, under a single Military
Department. Each would be headed by a
civilian. secretary, and each would retain
autonomy for its own internal administration.

The program would also establish a
Council of National Defense “to integrate our .
foreign and military policies,” and a co-
ordinate National Security Resources Board,
Central Intelligence Agency and Supply
Organization as well.

30

--- Page 34 ---
STATION LIST

MITITARY GOVERNMENT ELEMENTS

DIRECTOR OR

UNIT OR OFFICE OF
COMMANDING OFFICER

MILITARY GOVERNMENT ~ LOCATION

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Joseph McNarney
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, US

Office of Mil Gov for
Germany, US

Office of Mil Gov for

Berlin

LAND WUERTTEM Dene ADEN

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay,
Deputy Military Governor
Maj Gen C L Adcock,
Asst Deputy Mil Governor

Wiirttemberg-Baden Stuttgart Col W W Dawson
ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 154) .
Hq 1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart Col W W Dawson
Hq & Sv Co Stuttgart Ist Lt J P Clifford

Stuttgart Area

¥*SK Stuttgart Stuttgart Lt Col C L Jackson
*LK Béblingen Béblingen Ist Lt O P Johnson
*LK Esslingen Esslingen Capt H D Peterson
*LK Ludwigsburg Ludwigsburg 1st Lt E R Gramm
*LK Waiblingen Waiblingen Capt J B Cress
*LK Backnang Backnang 1st Lt R R Mayer
*LK Leonberg Leonberg Capt W J Vallaza
*LK Niirtingen Niirtingen Maj S A Warren
*LK Vaihingen Vaihingen Ist Lt U S Aiello
Mannheim Area
*SK Mannheim Mannheim Maj M L Hoover
*SK/LK Heidelberg Heidelberg Lt Col W T Burt
*LK Buchen Buchen Ist Lt G H Wright
*LK Mosbach Mosbach 2nd Lt L Beck
*LK Tauberbischofsheim Tauberbischofsheim Ist Lt J Zecca
*LK Sinsheim Sinsheim Ist Lt D E Bedard
Karlsruhe Area
*SK/LK Karlsruhe Karlsruhe Maj W T Neel
*SK/LK Pforzheim Pforzheim 1st Lt N Semaschko
*LK Bruchsal Bruchsal Ist Lt L L Goldman
Heilbronn Area
*LK Heilbronn Heilbronn Maj M W Terry
*LK Crailsheim Crailsheim Ist Lt R E Alley
*LK Schw. Hall Schw. Hall Capt C S Keena
*LK Kuenzelsau Kuenzelsau Capt C E McGaffey
*LK Mergentheim Mergentheim Capt R Forrest
*LK Oehringen Oehringen 1st Lt M Korsun
Ulm Area
*LK Ulm Ulm Capt R N Tharp
*LK Aalen Aalen Capt R_H Nation
is awe Gmuend Sch, Gmuend eS Lt J E Switzer
oeppingen roeppingen apt R Kenned;
*LK Heidenheim Heidenheim Capt BV Boom

* Liaison and Security

31

--- Page 35 ---
- UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MELETARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

‘DIRECTOR OR -,
COMMANDING. OFFICER,

Office of Mil Gov
for Greater Hesse

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Hq Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Sv Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
US Ln Det (Ruhr)

US Ln Det (Saar)

*SK Frankfurt
*SK Wiesbaden
*LK Wetzlar
*LK Dill

*LK Gelnhausen
*LK Biedenkopf
*SK/LK Hanau
*LK Oberlahn
*LK Limburg
*LK Maintaunus
*LK Rheingau
*LK Obertaunus
*LK Usingen
*LK Untertaunus
*LK Schluechtern

*SK/LK Kassel
*LK Melsungen
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*LK Ziegenhain
*SK/LK Marburg
*SK/LK Fulda
*LK Hinfeld

*LK Waldeck
*LK Frankenberg
*LK Eschwege
*LK Witzenhausen
*LK Hersfeld
*LK Rotenburg
*LK Hofgeismar
*LK Wolfhagen
*SK/LK Darmstadt
*LK Gross-Gerau
*SK/LK Offenbach
*LK Bergstrasse
*LK Erbach

*LK Biidingen
*LK Dieburg

*LK Friedberg
*SK/LK Giessen
*LK Lauterbach
*LK Alsfeld

Office of Mil Gov
for Bavaria

Hq 3rd Mil Govt Regt
Hq Company
Sv Company

* Liaison and Security

LAND GREATER HESSE

Wiesbaden.

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)
Wiesbaden
Oberursel
Wiesbaden

Regierungsbezirk Wicsbaden

Frankfurt
Wiesbaden
Wetzlar
Dillenburg
Gelnhausen
Biedenkopf
Hanau
Weilburg
Limburg
Hofheim
Riidesheim
Bad Homburg
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
Schluechtern

Regierungsbezirk Kassel

Kassel
Melsungen
Fritzlar
Ziegenhain
Marburg
Fulda
Hiinfeld
Korbach
Frankenberg
Eschwege
Witzenhausen
Hersfeld
Rotenburg
Hofgeismar
Wolfhagen
Darmstadt
Gross-Gerau
Offenbach
Heppenheim
Erbach
Biidingen
Dieburg
Friedberg
Giessen
Lauterbach
Alsfeld

LAND BAVARIA
Munich

3rd Mil Gov Regt
(APO 170)

Munich

Munich

Munich

Col. J R Newman

Lt Col S S Graham
Capt H E York
Capt B A Sturdevan
Capt G E Skaggs
Capt M Dowd

Col R K Phelps

Maj M E Chotas
Capt M S Clark
Capt E G Stolper
Capt J G Bennas
Capt T E Faircloth
Maj E J Emerick
Capt A G Volz
Capt P H Olsen
Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hintz
Capt L F Jones
Capt R F Gibney
Capt T W_ Harris
Capt S B Borda

Lt Col W R Swarm
Maj W C Gipple
Capt G D Fexy
Capt R B Elwell
Lt Col L G Kelly
Lt Col H R Cress
Capt E T Tedick
Capt D W Shea
Maj L S Williams
Capt J F Philp
Maj L H Brown
Maj M Baymor
Capt C W Davis
Capt L R Allen
Capt S A Karas
Lt Col A Skarry
Capt H L Edberg
Capt I Bencowitz
Maj R A Gish
Capt R O Didlo
Capt N V Steenberg
Capt J S Chapin
Capt C S Parshall
Maj C F Russe
Capt H, Nickelsberg
Capt H B Miller

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C_C Morgen
Capt J W Preston
Capt L R Clark

--- Page 36 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER

Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken

Co A Wurzburg Maj I P Chestnut
*SK/LK Wurzburg Wurzburg Maj M B Voorhees
*SK/LK Aschaffenburg Aschaffenburg Capt J R Hurst
*SK/LK Schweinfurt Schweinfurt Maj G M Marsh
*LK Kissingen Bad Kissingen Capt M A Potter
*LK Kitzingen Kitzingen Capt M Colbert
*LK Alzenau Alzenau Capt A T Neumann
*LK Bruckenau Bruckenau Capt Grodzinski
*LK Ebern Ebern Ist Lt G E Mair
*LK Gemunden Gemunden Capt J J Gotter
*LK Gerolzhofen Gerolzhofen 1st Lt G F Fechan
*LK Hammelburg Hammelburg Capt K L Ellis
*LK Hassfurt Hassfurt Capt R E Hellmig
*LK Hofheim Hofheim Capt F L Beelby
¥*LK Karlstadt Karlstadt Capt W _E Brayden
*LK Konigshofen Konigshofen Capt C Boden

*LK Lohr Lohr Capt E E Kelly
*LK Markt Heidelfeld Markt Heidelfeld Capt Griffin

*LK Mellrichstadt Mellrichstadt 1st Lt L K Owens
*LK Miltenberg Miltenberg Capt O A Jenson
*LK Neustadt a.d. Salle Neustadt a.d. Salle Cap’ F Warnke
*LK Obernburg Obernburg Capt J Bumic

*LK Ochsenfurt Ochsenfurt Capt L A Lowell

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

CoB Ansbach Col E M Haight
*SK/LK Nurnberg Nurnberg Lt Col C Klise
*SK/LK Bamberg Bamber, Lt Col J R Case
*SK/LK Bayreuth Bayreut! Capt D F Stroup, Actg
*SK/LK Erlangen Erlangen Lt Col F M Guild
*SK/LK Coburg Coburg Maj S Klein
*SK/LK Hof Hof Maj H L Woodall
*SK/LK Ansbach Ansbach Capt J R Palmer, Actg
*SK/LK Furth Furth Maj A C Abbott
*SK/LK Kulmbach Kulmbach Maj H T Lund
*LK Kronach Kronach Capt J F Begley
*LK Lichtenfels Lichtenfels Maj F W Crimp
*LK Ebermannstadt Ebermannstadt Maj R T Boyer
*LK Hochstadt a.d. Aisch Hochstadt a.d. Aisch Capt O E Palmer
*LK Pegnitz Pegnitz Capt M G Stamatis
*LK Munchberg Munchberg Maj H C Kauffman
*LK Rehau Rehau Capt W W Evans
*LK Wunsiedel Wunsiedel Maj T Cleary

*LK Forchheim Forchheim Maj H W Zurn
*LK Dinkelsbuhl Dinkelsbuhl Capt J F Wyatt
*LK Eichstatt Eichstatt Capt R J Towle
*LK Feuchtwangen Feuchtwangen Ist Lt D J Smith
*LK Gunzenhausen Gunzenhausen Maj R J Nielson
*LK Hersbruck | Hersbruck Ist Lt L D Franklin
*LK Hilpolstein Hilpolstein Capt R E Peters
*LK Weissenburg Weissenburg Ist Lt W C Williams
\*LK Rothenburg Rothenburg Maj F K Hinchey
*LK Schwabach Schwabach Maj R E Stringer
*LK Scheinfeld Scheinfeld Capt G B Jones
*LK Uffenheim Windsheim Capt L C Wheeler
*LK Lauf Lauf Capt N A Carr
*LK Neustadt a.d. Aisch Neustadt a.d. Aisch Maj C J Cody

*LK Naila Naila Capt G N Hultren
*LK Stadtsteinach Stadtsteinach Capt H C Moore

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern and Oberpfalz

Co D Regensburg Lt Col Hastings
*SK/LK Regensbur; Regensburg Capt J W Boffert
*SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt ad. Wald Weiden Maj G J Geiner
*SK/LK Passau Pasau

* Liaison and Security

33

Maj H I Snapp

--- Page 37 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

- DIRECTOR OR:
COMMANDING OFFICER

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern and Oberpfalz (Cont’d)

*SK/LK Amberg
*SK/LK Landshut
*SK/LK Straubing
*LK Cham

*LK Burglengenfeld
*LK Parsberg

*LK Tirschenreuth
*LK Neunberg vorm Wald
*LK Eschenbach

*LK Deggendorf
*LK Eggenfelden
*LK Grafenau

*LK Kelheim

*LK Landau a.d. Isar
*LK Pfarrkirchen
*LK Regen

*LK Vilshofen

*LK Vilsbiburg

*LK Wolfstein

*LK Kemnath

*LK Nabburg

*LK Oberviechtach
*LK Riedenberg

*LK Vohenstrauss
*LK Roding

*LK Waldmunchen
*LK Beilngries

*LK Neumarkt id. Opf.
*LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg
*LK Bogen

*LK Dingolfing

*LK Griesbach

*LK Kotzting

*LK Mainburg

*LK Mallersdorf
*LK Rottenburg

*LK Viechtach

*LK Wegscheid

CoE

*SK/LK Munich
*SK/LK Rosenheim
*SK/LK Ingolstadt
*SK/LK Freising
*LK Miesbach

*LK Traunstein
*LK Altottin,

*LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen
*LK Erding

*LK Laufen

*LK Muhldorf

*LK Wasserburg
*LK Tolz

*LK Aibling

*LK Furstenfeldbruck
*LK Landsberg
*LK Pfaffenhofen
*LK Starnberg

*LK Weilheim

*LK Wolfratshausen
*LK Berchtesgaden
*LK Ebersberg

*LK Aichach

*LK Schrobenhausen
*LK Dachau

*LK Schongau

* Liaison and Security

Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
urglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunberg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau a.d. Isar
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsbiburg
Wolfstein
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldmunchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach
Kotzting
Mainburg
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
‘Wegscheid

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Munich

Munich
Rosenheim
Ingolstadt
Freising
Miesbach
Traunstein
Altotting
Partenkirchen
Erding

Laufen
Muhldorf
Wasserburg
Bad Tolz

Bad Aibling
Furstenfeldbruck
Landsberg
Pfaffenhofen
Starnberg
Weilheim
Wolfratshausen
Berchtesgaden
Ebersberg
Aichach
Schrobenhausen
Dachau
Schongau

84

Maj.J C Robertson
Maj T R Coykendall :~
Capt G L Milner

Ist Lt E A McNamara
Ist Lt R W Corly

Ist Lt P J Piccola
Capt L R Mariels

Capt RG Miller .
Capt R O Woodward
Ist Lt H Cohen

2nd Lt S Fuchs

1st Lt R M McWhorter
Capt D Stacy

Ist Lt H Fueglein

Ist Lt N Ugland

2nd Lt M V Fidals
Capt G W Cunningham
2nd Lt J D Brooks
Capt M J Jarvis

Ist Lt W W Green
Capt E J Garllant
Capt C H Smallwood
Ist Lt T B Wofford
Capt J F Leech .

_ Capt D K Nickerson
“ Ist Lt F Henry

Maj E Fichter

1st Lt M W Doane
Ist Lt T A Winkelfsecht
Capt A R Sphar

Capt J W Fleshman
Ist Lt G L Thomas
2nd Lt J C Mitchell
Ist Lt J J Mc Watters
2nd Lt P A Nesbit
1st Lt C G Dansby
Capt R E Pike

Ist Lt A L Stone

Lt Col R F Philpott
Capt Kurt Baer
Capt R H Necel
Capt W Lasserty
Maj E W Boney
Capt W A Lovaitt
Maj C H Bischoff
Maj A H Wright
Maj M W Nitz
Maj C A Brown
Capt N W Borring
Capt W M Forys
Capt D Root

Capt W N Dickerson
Maj E J H Newmeyer
Ist Lt H Klein
Capt M L Mott
Capt J E Thayer
Capt B B Simmons
Capt M J Groves
Maj P L Steers Jr
Maj M Lawrence
Maj F Onen

Ist Lt H J Thompson
Capt H J Hierman
Maj'A G Snow“
Maj C A Rein

--- Page 38 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

“Co G

*SK/LK Augsburg
*SK/LK Kempten
*LK Dillingen

*LK Neu Ulm

*LK Sonthofen

*LK Donauwérth
*LK Gunzberg

*LK Markt Oberdorf
*LK Memmingen
*LK Mindelheim
*LK Neuberg

*LK Nordlingen
*LK Fussen

*LK Krumbach
“™*LK Illertissen

*LK Kaufbeuren
*LK Wertingen
*LK Friedberg

*LK Sehwabmunchen

“Office of Mil Gov for
US Sector Berlin District

‘Office of Mil Gov for
Bremen Enclave (US)
“Wesermiinde Detachment

* Liaison and Security

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Augsbur;
‘Augsburg
Kempten
Dillingen
Weissenhorn
Sonthofen
Donauworth
Gunzber;

Markt Oberdorf
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Nordlingen
Fussen
Krumbach
Illertissen
Kaufbeuren
Wertingen
Friedberg
Schwabmunchen

US SECTOR BERLIN DISTRICT

(APO 155)

Berlin
BREMEN ENCLAVE
(APO 751)

Bremen
Wesermiinde

35

Lt Col C M Avery

Lt Col R A Norton

Lt Col R S Wagner
Maj R J Paul

Capt J A Morris

Maj J E Rhea

Capt R Glass

Ist Lt E A Eaton
Capt B M Green

Ist Lt W M Toepser
Capt L A Troter

Capt E D Schank

2nd Lt P W Thompson
Capt S D Lubin

1st Lt O H Sager
Capt J O Renalds
Capt D G Stevens

2nd Lt P F Moskowitz
Capt D J Moran

Capt T B Greaves

Col F L Howley

Lt Col B C Welker
Lt Col L S Diggs

--- Page 39 ---
