--- Page 2 ---
No. 47 — 24 JUNE 1946

Military Government

Weekly
information Bulletin

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT
FOR GERMANY, US
CONTROL OFFICE
APO 742 U.S. ARMY

--- Page 3 ---
LEGEND

— —— REGIERUNGSBEZIRYE AND
LANDESBEZIRK BADEN

SOURCE OMG-R@! BRANCH

———— LANOKREISE AND STADTKREISE

UNITED STATES ZONE, GERMANY
Greater Hesse, Wiirttemberg-Baden

WALOECK

WOLF
iy)

Aaa ‘si Su oe

PErenmcce

N
FRANKENBERG sv amaeed

MBER:
pid 4 ee Se
a) a
Ea ~

21EGEN- aS
HAIN (HERSFELO

fwirzen=
BRITISH ZONE

oe :

RUSSIAN

ZONE

FRENCH

~~
IKUNZELS:
nme can

eel Par = Sop ee
(ye

Nia?
Ket RG.
wah

AALEN

so Loar smuNo
aN
a cet en
77 VL, SOPPINGEN
wuaTincend
‘

ZONE

ep
]

5
wes

TATISTICS SECTION
SEC GEN STAFF USFET

--- Page 4 ---
No. 47 — 24 JUNE 1946

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT
FOR GERMANY, US
CONTROL OFFICE
APO 742 U.S. ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
THIS WEEK

Completed Staff Work
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS .
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Democratic Self Government in Progress .
New Rationing System . .

The Results of the Ration Cut .

German Women Shed Their Shackles .

Property Control Reverts to Land Governments .

GENERAL
No Barter in Interzonal Trade .
Additional German Voters .
OMGUS Conserves Food .
Civilian Travel Passes .
Bavarian Labor Congress .
Rhine ‘Patton Bridge’ Opened .
Interzonal Conferences .
Public Welfare Training .
Press Control . .
Home Folks Indifferent .
Mata Hari Out .

School for Financiers .

GERMAN REACTIONS.
“The People Shall Decide” .
Youth Parliament .

First Anniversary of German Parties .
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS
STATION LIST.

PAGE

10
12

17
17
17
18
18
18
19
19
19
19
20
20
20

21
21
21
22

23
28

--- Page 6 ---
COMPLETED
STAFF WORK

TUDY OF A PROBLEM AND PRESENTATION OF ITS SOLUTION
IN SUCH FORM THAT ONLY APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL
OF THE COMPLETED ACTION IS REQUIRED.

1. WORK OUT ALL DETAILS COM-
PLETELY:

2. CONSULT OTHER STAFF
OFFICERS.

3. STUDY, WRITE, RESTUDY,
REWRITE.

4, PRESENT A SINGLE, COORDIN-
ATED PROPOSED ACTION. DO
NOT EQUIVOCATE.

5. DO NOT PRESENT LONG MEMO-
RANDA OR EXPLANATIONS.
CORRECT SOLUTIONS ARE USU-
ALLY RECOGNIZABLE.

6- ADVISE THE CHIEF WHAT TO
DO. DO ASK NOT HIM.

F YOU WERE THE CHIEF, WOULD YOU SIGN THE PAPER YOU
HAVE PREPARED AND THUS STAKE YOUR PROFESSIONAL
REPUTATION ON ITS BEING RIGHT? IF NOT, TAKE IT BACK
AND WORK IT OVER; IT IS NOT YET COMPLETED STAFF WORK.

--- Page 7 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Training for Occupation Forces. Training Memo 6

Movement and Documentation of Supplies. in the
European Theater on the Continent. SOP No 24

Control Council Law No 29, “Delivery of Cer-
tified Copies of Documents (Repeal of Control
Council Law No 6)" — Change 10 to Title 23,
Military Government Legislation . Loe

Civil Administration Monthly Report
Questionnaire, MG/CIV/1/F

Organizations of (German) Ex-Prisoners of War

USFET
7 June 1946

USFET
8 June 1946

AG 014.12 (LD) OMGUS
10 June'1946

. AG 319.1 (CA) OMGUS

11 June 1946

AG 383.6 (SG) OMGUS
11 June 1946

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters

--- Page 8 ---
The Laenderrat Tackles Germany's “Most Important Single Problem”

Democratic self-government is on its
way back in the United States Zone of
Germany.

After twelve years of starvation and
abuse under the Nazi regime, and with
a hand of support and direction from MG,
democratic self-government in the US
Zone of Germany now has reached the
toddling stage on its way toward walk-
ing alone again. :

“Tt has always been our purpose to
permit the German people to develop a
free government, shaped to fit’ the needs
of Germany. Moreover, it is manifestly
simpler to control Germany through Ger-
man administrative machinery rather than
by the undertaking of direct operating
responsibilities.”

This policy, enunciated by General Ei-
senhower in October, 1945, has been a
guide in the American occupation pro-
gram for its zone of Germany.

A COORDINATING BODY NEEDED

After the creation of the three states,
or Laender, of the US Zone of Germany,
the establishment of their governments
and the programing of elections to give
the people a voice in their government,
it was apparent that a complete job could
not be done without the establishment. of
an agency to coordinate these state gov-

ernments. The agency that was set up
to do this job is the Laenderrat — Coun-
cil of States — an organization of the
Ministers-President of the three Laender
of the US Zone.

It was established by MG to meet the
“most important single problem” created
by the division of Germany into four
zones of occupation — the lack of effec-
tive coordination and control within the
zones for the special administrative ser-
vices which formerly came under the
direct control of the Reich central gov-
ernment.

Functioning with the advice and super-
vision of US authorities, the Laenderrat
coordinates all matters of German civil
administration affecting more than one
Land (state) of the US Zone. It is des-
igned to fill the need resulting from lack
of central administration and to restore
German responsibility and self-govern-
ment. The Laenderrat job, defined by the
German Ministers-President themselves
when the agency was organized in Oc-
tober 1945, and approved by US Military
Government, comprises the following:

“The Laenderrat has the task, within
the political directives of the occupying
power, to work ‘out the problems which
go beyond the boundaries of a Land, to
remove the difficulties of communication
between the Laender, and to. secure the

--- Page 9 ---
desired coordination in the development
of political, social, economic and cultural
life.”

The “Council of States” is essentially
a coordinating agency. It is NOT a zonal
government.

Besides the Ministers-President of the
three states of the US Zone — Bavaria,
Greater Hesse and Wuerttemberg-Baden
— the Laenderrat also includes the May-
or of Bremen, the US seaport enclave.
However, the latter takes part in Laen-
derrat decisions only when the interests
of his area are concerned. The seat of
the Laenderrat is in Stuttgart, where a
Directorate, composed of the permanent
representatives of the three Ministers-
President, a Secretary-General, a Secre-
tariat and a small staff, are maintained.

Regular meetings of the Laenderrat are
held there the first Tuesday of each
month. At that time, the council takes
action on matters referred to it by US
Military Government, proposals originat-
ing in the Laender and recommendations
on such matters, developed after study,
by its committees. All actions of the
Laenderrat must be unanimous.

_ Originally, all actions and proposals of
the Laenderrat were subject to approval
by. OMGUS. ;

ADDITIONAL POWERS

But, at the eight meeting of the Laen-
derrat-on 7 May 1946, the Deputy Mili-
tary Governor, Lt. General Lucius D.
Clay, in “an expression of confidence in
the strengthening of your own organiza-
tion,” gave the council authority to
make its own final decisions on matters
of German civil administration, “except
for major policy problems” and those
problems which come under quadripartite
authority.

To meet ‘this expansion of authority
and to expedite action on the increasingly
large volume of work coming before it,
the Laenderrat reorganized as of 4 June
1946, at which time the - Directorate

was established. This body is composed
of seven members: the three “plenipotent-
iaries” or permanent representatives of
the Ministers-President, a special dele-
gate on Laenderrat affairs from each of
the Land civil governments and the Sec-
retary-General of the Laenderrat.

WEEKLY DIRECTORATE MEETINGS

During the interval between Laender-
rat meetings, the Directorate, which
meets once a week, at Stuttgart, pos-
sesses authority to act on matters which
are not of basic importance but which
which cannot be postponed. If these de-
cisions of the directorate are unanimous,
they become effective at once. If they are
not approved unanimously, they become
effective if not vetoed by any of the
Ministers-President within three days.
When they become effective they are
considered Laenderrat decisions.

On matters of importance requiring ad
interim action by the Laenderrat, deci-
sions of the Ministers-President are pro-
cured in writing by the Secretary Gen-
eral through the Laenderrat plenipoten-
tiaries. Such actions are also considered
Laenderrat decisions and summaries of
them are submitted at the next meeting
of the council.

Since the Laenderrat is a coordinating
agency and NOT a zonal government,
action, necessary to carry out its deci-
sions, must be taken by the Ministers-
President in their respective Laender
through their civil governments. Such ac-
tion must be taken within one month,
or in cases requiring OMGUS approval,
within one month after such approval.

Supervision of Laenderrat activities is
maintained through the Regional Govern-
ment Coordinating Office (RGCO), an
agency. answerable directly to the US
Deputy Military Governor. This office,
which is also responsible for advising the
Laenderrat and acting as its liaison with
OMGUS, has offices in the same building
as. the Laenderrat at Stuttgart.

--- Page 10 ---
The staff of the RGCO has been held
to a minimum. This was planned for
efficiency in operation and in keeping with
a policy not to dictate to nor order Ger-
man officials, but to recommend and ad-
vise. There are only 17 Americans on
the entire staff; five officers, four enlist-
ed men and eight civilians.

Director of the RGCO is Dr. James K.
Pollock, professor of political science,
University of Michigan, who with General
Clay directed the organization of the
Laenderrat. Dr. Pollock has also held posi-
tions at Harvard University, Ohio State
and Stanford. He knows Germany well,
having been here several times before
‘the war and is the author of numerous
books, monographs and articles on the
country.

The staff of the RGCO includes six
technical advisers who meet with the
various committees of the Laenderrat to
supervise and advise their actions; a

translation and reports section of two
people who handle all this work; an
executive officer, an administrative of-
ficer, an administrative assistant and a
PRO. The enlisted men, assisted by a
small group of German civilians, handle
‘the general clerical and secretarial work.
Most of the staff have a broad knowledge
of 'the German language coupled with a
wide experience in 'the fields of Laender-
rat activities they advise.

LAENDERRAT SUBCOMMITTES

The Laenderrat met formally for the
first time on 6 November 1945, when its
organization plan was officially approv--
ed. On 20 December 1945, the council
was authorized to set up committees of
German technical advisers. From an ori-
ginal group of seven, covering such im-
portant matters as Evacuation and Re-
settlement; Food and Agriculture; Elec-
tricity; Transportation; Economics; In-

Lt. General Lucius Clay, Deputy Military Governor, addressing the Eight Meeting of the Laenderrat composed of

the Ministers-President of Bavaria, IV uerttemberg-Bade. and Greater Hesse.

US Army Signal Corps Photo.

--- Page 11 ---
dustry and Export-Import, the commit-
tees and sub-committees have grown to
a total of 68. 4

These committees and subcommittees,
and others that may be established, do
all the spadework for the Laenderrat.
They function under the direction of the
Laenderrat Secretariat. Representatives of
the RGCO attend their meetings and ad-
vise in the consideration of matters re-
ferred to them. Other US Military Gov-
ernment representatives may be invited
to attend, in advisory capacities, those
committees sessions involving their res-
pective functions in OMGUS.

The Committees, however, are essen-
tially German and not set up by MG.
They are appointed by the Laenderrat,
subject to RGCO, and normally meet
at Laenderrat headquarters.

THE SECRETARIAT

The Laenderrat Secretariat is compos-
ed of a Secretary General and a working
staff. The Secretary General, Erich Ross-
man, long time Social Democrat and con-
centration camp inmate, prepares and
submits to the Laenderrat proposals,
plans and directives for coordination on
matters within the jurisdiction of the
organization.

The Secretariat is the channel for all
matters to be présented to the Laender-
rat or its committees by either US Mili-
tary Government or German civilian
.sources. MG authiorities present such
matters through the RGCO, which passes
them on to the Secretariat. German sour-
ces bring theirs up through the normal
channels of the civil government to the
Secretariat.

The Secretary General places these
matters and committee actions on the
agenda for Laenderrat meetings. He also
is responsible for preparation of neces-
sary data in reports and for the general
supervision of the administrative func-
tions of the council.

Normal procedure by the -Laenderrat
on matters requiring coordination of ad-

ministration in the US Zone is along the
following lines:

A matter is presented to the Laender-
rat, either by Military Government or
German sources. It is placed on the
agenda and receives preliminary consi-
sideration at a regular meering of the
council. As a general rule, such mat-
ters of a nature requiring reference to a
committee or subcommittee for detailed
study. This action is taken and the com-
mittee later submits its recommendations.
If the matter is one of minor importance,
but requiring expeditious handling, the
Directorate may act upon it. If it is of
major importance and requiring immediate
action the ad interim Laenderrat ap-
proval of the Ministers-President may be
secured in writing. Or again, it may be
held over until the next meeting of the
Laenderrat, where the committee report
may be adopted, modified or rejected.

If such action is necessary, the Laen-
derrat approval may be forwarded to
OMGUS for acceptance there before it
is put into operation.

COMPLETE COOPERATION

Since its inception, the Laenderrat has
given its complete cooperation to
OMGUS. The Germans themselves also
are making good use of the organization
having brought before it a number of
proposals which have been put into effect.

Progress has been made by the Laen-
derrat and the RGCO despite many dif-
ficulties. These included not only such
inconveniences as the lack of facilities,
office space, and suitable personnel, but
also such fundamental things as the nec-
essity for reeducating responsible Ger-
mans in self-government, and getting them
accustomed to free discussion, willing
to accept management of their own af-

. fairs and able to compromise their dif-

ferences in a democratic manner.

In the few months of its existence the
Laenderrat has accomblished much. Prob-
ably ‘its most important single accom-

(Continued on page 27)

--- Page 12 ---
US Army Signal Corps Photo

New Rationing System

City-dwellers in US Zone to receive larger rations than rural population.

A slight increase in the food ration
for the US Zone of Germany has been
announced by the Laenderrat. Acting with
the approval of OMGUS the German
Council of States authorized rations for
the 90th ration period beginning 24
June 1946, slightly higher than those of
the present period. This applies especially
to persons living in the larger cities of
the US Zone.

Under a new method of food rationing
devised by the Laenderrat Food and Agri-
culture Commissioner Hermann Dietrich,
in cooperation with the Food Ministers
of the three States of the Zone, per-
sons living in cities of over 20,000 popu-
lation will receive a larger ration than
those living in smaller or rural areas.

Workers in all areas will share in the
food increases of the new ration inorder
to prevent impairment of the gradually
resuming industrial activity in the Zone.

Food Commissioner Dietrich has taken
the position that during the critical
months preceding the new harvest this
fall, every effort must be made to keep
the ration as high as available food
stocks will permit.

The increase in the ration for the
new period was made possible through
available supplies of dried milk and de-
hydrated vegetables from the United
States; through the import of fish from the
Scandinavian countries purchased by the
US Military Government; and through

(Continued on page 16)

--- Page 13 ---
The Results of the Ration Cut

Tripartite Survey Reveals Immediate Decline in Nutritional Condition.
Decreasing Production, Absenteeism Prevalent. Famine Edema Reappears.

Significant deterioriation in the nutri-
tional condition of the German civilian
as a direct result of the recent ration
reduction is the main finding conducted
by the tripartite Combined Nutrition
Committee. The survey covered urban
areas in the American, French and Bri-
tish Zones, and was undertaken during
the period 12 May through 23 May 1946.
Another review of the general situation
is planned within ninety days.

ORIGINAL 1550 @ALORY. MINIMUM

The committee made its first report in
August 1945, which lead to the establish-
ment of an average ration of 1550 calories
for the normal consumer as the very
minimum which could maintain a rea-
sonable state of health in the population.
However, this scale could not be sustain-
ed on the available food supply and the
ration had to be reduced in the French
Zone in February, in the British Zone in
March, and in the’ American Zone in
April.

‘Under the original scale the ration
proved sufficient to protect town popula-
tions against starvation and with few
exceptions to prevent serious malnutri-
tion, although the scale was insufficient
to support a full working population. It
provided no margin of safety.

The committee also’ found that
during this period some _ supple-
mentary rations were available either
in the form of umnrationed items,
family stocks, or through illegal
procurement which prevented the full ef-
fect of this reduced ration being felt.
Now withthe reduced calorie levels in

10

the approved ration a greater proportion
of any supplementary food available is
apt to find its way to those most able
to acquire it, leaving the greater part of
town populations in the danger zone.

While children up to the age of 3
years were still adequately nourished in
terms of caloric intake, there were in-
dications of specific needs for Vitamin
B and iron. Children from 3 to 6 years
of age are still in a satisfactory nutri-
tional condition. However, even in these
age groups rickets is becoming more pre-
valent and nutritional anemia is increas-
ing.

The caloric deficiency of rations has
now become definitely noticeable in the
children between 6 and 10 years, and be-
tween 10 and 18 years there is evidence
of retarded or arrested growth. Specific
signs of malnutrition associated with
deficiencies of Vitamin A, riboflavin and
ascorbic acid are by no means uncom-
mon, and anemia is of increasing pre-
valence. :

“NORMAL CONSUMER” SUFFERING

The condition of the normal consumer
has deteriorated and is particularly ser-
ious among the old and physically unfit
who have the least opportunity to obtain
any supplementary rations. Famine edema,
which had been evident immediately after
occupation but had almost disappeared
by the end of January, has reappeared
in the urban areas and is reaching serious
proportions.

The effect of the recent ration reduc-
tion is decreasing production and is in-
creasing absenteeism in the Ruhr, the

--- Page 14 ---
survey reported, even though the coal
miners are receiving a relatively high ra-
tion as compared to workers in other
industries. The present ration scale is
resulting in a decline of physical strength,
increased absenteeism and discontent
among workers generally. It is evident
that the lowering of the food ration will
substantially decrease productive output
and will seriously retard economic re-
covery.

CHILDBEARING WOMEN

The survey did not develop direct evi-
denge that pregnant women and nursing
mothers are as yet suffering extensively
from insufficient nourishment, although
the committee is of the view that it will
be impossible for women ih these cate-
gories to continue to supplement the pre-

sent ration scale so that malnutrition for -

mother and child is certain to result.

As a result of its survey, the committee
has recommended that every effort be
made to restore the caloric content of the
ration to the 1550 calory level for the
normal consumer as an absolute mini-
mum, which in itself would not suffice
over a long period of time to maintain

a healty population. The committee furth- .

er recommended that the range and num-
ber of weighings in the three Zones be
extended in close correlation with the
work of nutrition survey teams so that

a true relationship between body weights,
and hunger edema may be followed clo-
sely.

The survey included the cities of Stutt-
gart, Kassel, Bremen, Hamburg, Hanno-
ver, Duesseldorf, Essen, Coblentz, Saar-
bruecken, Freudenstadt and Schramberg.
The members of the committee included
Colonel W. L. Wilson (US), Sir Jack
Drummond (Gr. Britain), Inspector Gen-
eral G. Coulon (France). Associate mem-
bers of the committee are Colonel W. H.
Sebrell (US), Lt. Colonel W. F. Ashe
(US), Dr. H. Sinclar (Gr. Britain), Mr.
J. B. Lockwood (Gr. Britain), Lt. Colonel
M. Roche (France), and Dr. G. Pierron
(France).

THE DANGER LINE

In commenting on the report of servey,
Colonel Wilson, Chief of OMGUS Public
Health and Welfare Branch, pointed out
that it was particularly disturbing to
him in that it reflects deterioration in
the health of the population so quickly
following the cut in rations as to indicate
quite. definitely that the general nutri-
tional conditions existing at the time of
the cut were already at the danger line.
Hence, further ‘deterioration in the nutri-
tion of the German people may be ex-
pected to develop rapidly as their re-
serve strength i is depleted.

11

--- Page 15 ---
he Reich constitution, framed at as Figure 1 indicates, the voting par-

Weimar in 1919, proclaimed that ticipation of men was, on the whole,

men and women have fundamentally better than that of women. This
the same civic rights and duties. Women condition was in part due to women’s
were given the right to vote and it was lack of political education and experience.
further stipulated that all citizens with- To what extent were women elected
out distinction were eligible for public _ to legislative bodies under the Weimar
offices in accordance with the laws and Republic? The constitutional convention
their own abilities and services. This of 1919 had 41 women members out of

represented a great change from the days a total of 423. The Reichstag elected on
of Bismarck’s Second Reich — a Reich 6 November 1932 had 35 women out of

in which women had no legally recogni- 584 members: 13 of the 35 were Social
zed role in politics and administration, a Democrats, 13 were Communists, 4 were
Reich in which they were not even allow- Center Party, 3 were German. National
ed to study at German universities but People’s Party while the Bavarian Peo-

had to go abroad if they wished a higher ple’s Party and the German People’s
education. (It was as recently as 1905 eds>one woman.
that German girls i m There were no

wer first permitted in the Nazi
to attend gymnasia). Lie on either in
Before 1918, Ger- ti or in any other
many was indeed a j ;
man’s world and wo- 927 in 90 cit-

men were relegated populations
to the three 60,000 or more,
Kinder, Kiy omen numbered
Kiiche. T 8.5 percent of
of course, total number of

protest. Abd®® : ity councilmen. At
hundred years ago, Reich, Land and local
Auguste Schmidt, the levels, the parties of
founder of the Ger- the Leftwere more
man “Woman Citi- P = ready to nominate
zens’ Union, wrote, “I campaign for the and elect women than the other parties.

Reich of freedom.” However, with the The number of women who occupied
failure of the Revolution of 1848, the high governmental or administrative posts
feminist movement also suffered a set- in the Weimar days was very small. No
back. Pioneer women like Helene Lange woman was ever a member of the Reich

and Anita Augsburg continued to battle cabinet or of a Land cabinet. No woman

for woman suffrage. Their efforts were was ever Oberpraesident, Regierungsprae-

supported by the Social Democratic Par- sident, Oberbiirgermeister or Landrat.
ty but were without success until the There were a few women in the higher
breakdown of the old regime in 1918. civil service of the Reich or of Prussia — but

What was the “Deutsche Frau” able the total of such persons could be count-
to do with the new freedoms conferred ed on the fingers of both hands. In 1927,
upon her in 1919? Let us look first in cities with more than 50,000 popula-

at the exercise of the suffrage. Unfor- tion, there was only one woman who was
tunately, in most elections before 1933, a professional member of the Magistrat
the registration and voting statistics were — in other words, a professional depart-
not tabulated according to sex. However, ment head.

12

--- Page 16 ---
When one considers the short span
of years of the Weimar Republic and
recalls the status of women in Germany
before 1919, it must be conceded that
good progress was made. Women parti-
cipated more and more in the work of
political parties. Women legislators ren-
dered valuable service on legislative com-
mittees. Women found increasing oppor-
tunities in the permanent civil service.

THIRD REICH SET-BACK

Edgar Ansel Mowrer, in the early days
of Nazi rule, wrote a book entitled Ger-
many Puts the Clock Back. This is as
true of the feminist movement as it is of
everything else that was progressive and
democratic in Germany’s past.

It remained for the Third Reich to put
women in their “proper place.”

Since the Nazi elections were not free
democratic elections, there is no point
in comparing voting records. “Fihrer, wir
folgen Dir: Alle sagen Ja’.”” German wo-
men are as much to blame for voting
Hitler into office and supporting him as
are German men.

As for women legislators and public
officials, the Nazi tyranny swept them
out of their positions. A simple test will
suffice to illustrate the “masculinization”
of the public and party services. The

than 8,000 public and party officials.
Among these, there were exactly four-
teen women, only one of whom had a
civil service rank as high as Oberregie-
rungsrat. Only two of them had the
doctor’s degree. The most prominent wo-
man listed — or perhaps one should say
“the most notorious” — was the Reichs-
frauenfihrerin, Frau Gertrud Scholtz-
Klink. Curiously enough, the leader of
“Bund Deutscher Madel” was not menti-
oned at all. Doubtless it was felt that
Baldur von Schirach, the Reich Youth
Leader, adequately represented both
sexes!

t$

13

RESTORATION BEGINS

Anyone who saw the recent elections
in the US Zone could not fail to be im-
pressed by the large number of women
who voted. It is also encouraging to note
that women are becoming increasingly
active in political party affairs. There
are even a few women’s parties such as
the South German Women’s League in
Bavaria. When MG receives applications
for the authorization of political parties,
the list of sponsors ususally includes one
or more women.

As yet, not many women have been
elected to local legislative councils. Of
15,000 Gemeinde councillors in Wuert-
temberg-Baden, only twenty-five are wo-
men. In Greater Hesse, there are six
women members out of 1081 Landkreis
councillors. Bavaria has the only all-wo-
man Gemeinde council. This is not to be
taken as evidence that the Bavarians are
more ardent feminists than their cousins
in Greater Hesse or Wuerttemberg-Baden.
Rather, it was a case of there not being
enough “politically acceptable” men. Re-
ports as to the number of women elec-
ted to Stadtkreis councils have not yet
been received but it is known that there
were at least eight candidates in Greater

Hesse. 4

--- Page 17 ---
Area ; Percentage of Percentage of
Voting Election Da te eee a aeciee
Munich . . . | City council . 1919 70.7°/y 67.4°/,
Cologne .... . . 1924 66.5°/, 52.6°/,
Hagen ..... . ® 1924 83.0°/, 71.0°/,
Gera . " . 1925 90.6°/, 87.9°/,
Berlin 1 . . 1929 75.0/, 66.0°/,
Berlin . .| Reichstag . 1928 83.7°/, 75.2°/9
Leipzig... .. . 1928 86.5°/, 80.6°/,
Elberfeld .. . . » 1928 79.0%, 69.7°/,
Barmen .... . 1928 77.8°/, 66.7°/,
Land Thuringia . ” 1928 82.2°/, 74.0°/,
Land Hesse. . . ” 1928 73.3°/, 58.9°/,

Figure 1, More eligible women than men failed to vote.

Women are also being nominated for
the Land constitutional assemblies. In
Bavaria, the Social Democrats have nomi-
nated Elisabeth Kiser, Referentin in the
Bavarian Ministry of Education and Relig-
ion, and Rosa Aschenbrenner, former
member of the Bavarian Landtag. The Ba-
varian Communists have likewise nomi-
nated a woman.

There are still only a few women in
higher administrative positions. The Land
government of Greater Hesse includes
women and at least two are in the Land
government of Bavaria. One of the most
important appointments yet made was
made by the British when they named Frau
Thea Ruth, Social Democrat, to be Vice
President of the Province df Hanover.
There is one woman Biirgermeister -df
a small Gemeinde with some three hun-
dred inhabitants in Greater Hesse. It is

said that there are two or three women
Birgermeister in the Russian Zone. In
general, the Russians have been sympa-
thetic toward the appointment of women
to public office.

It is desirable that increased emphasis
be placed on political education for wo-
men. It is even more necessary that Ger-
man men come to understand that the
equality of the sexes is an essential princ-
iple of democracy. In the days before
the Hitler era, the Deutsche Frauenbe-
wegung (German Women’s Movement)
was in contact with women’s organiza-
tions and activities in other countries.
A start has been made in contacting the
outside world by the head of the German
Young Women’s Association who, to-
gether with her assistant, attented the
World Executive Committee of the YWCA

meeting in Switzerland.

14

--- Page 18 ---
Reverts tc

Seven billion marks worth of property
taken into custody by the US Military
Government authorities in Germany are
now being turned over to German admin-
istrative agencies for safeguarding and
administering in accordance with the
American MG policy of giving the Ger-
man authorities greater responsibilities
in handling their own affairs and activ-
ities.

The property Disposal Board created
by MG in February 1946, recommended a
plan the details of which were worked
out by a committee appointed by the
Laenderrat and the American MG of-
ficials. It is expected that the German
Property Control Authority will have been
established and assumed full resposibility
for this administration by 1 July 1946.

MG SEIZURES MANDATORY

Approximately 43,000 units of pro-
perty in the US Zone of Germany have
been taken into custody by American
MG property control officers since the
start of occupation. These properties in-
clude those of the former German gov-
ernment, the Nazi Party and affiliates,
allied and neutral nationals, and perse-
cuted persons, for safeguarding and ad-
ministering until their final despositions
are decided upon by the occupational au-
thorities.

The custodianship of the properties
was considered necessary for a variety
of reasons: In the case of the German

15

AY

enti Hi

Hn

overn

state, the terms of the surrender demand-

ed it; in the case of the NSDAP and af-
filiated organizations, it was required
by virtue of the Control Council Law
No. 2 dissolving these organizations; for
the LG. Farbenindustrie, Control Coun-
cil Law No. 9 demanded the seizure of
all their properties; and for certain other
properties, regulations of MG Law No.
52 were applicable.

FIRST TRANSFERS MADE.

The first transfer of property was ef-
fected in Wuerttemberg-Baden when ap-
proximately two billion marks worth of
property, comprising 8,811 units was
transferred 1 June to the Land govern-
ment. In Greater Hesse, a transfer of
about 5,000 units, worth more than two
billion marxs, nas been completed. Pre-
parations for the transfer of some 17,006
units, valued at more than three billion
marks, are being initiated in Bavaria.

The Ministers-President will be held
responsible to insure the safeguarding of
the property for custody and administra-
tion and “to insure that there is no trans-
action engaged in that will substantially
diminish or imperil the value of such
property.” They also have been called
upon to submit to MG plans for the
eventual disposition of State and Nazi
properties taken under control.

All property turned over must be sign-
ed for by the Ministers-President who
also must submit plans and regulations

--- Page 19 ---
for its, administration and safeguarding
to MG for approval. The.MG Land direc-
tors are to invoke specific supervisory
and auditing measures to insure complete
protection of the property of United Na-
tions:members and of neutrals.

A German Property Control Office is
to be organized in the Finance Ministry
of each Land with a Land civilian agency
head as director. Each Kreis is to have
a similar set-up by establishing a sub-
ordinate civilian agency. Continual liaison
is to be maintained by the German direc-
tors with the MG officers.

As of 30 April 1946, three were 31,645
units, comprising a total value of
RM _ 6,211,600,000 under US Military
Government Property Control. By Land
and districts this total was divided as
follows:

Units| Value in marks
Bavaria 16,092 2,757,000,000
Greater Hesse 8,220 1,938,700,000
Wirtemberg-Baden 5,616. 1,135,900,000
Bremen Enclave 135 233,000,000
U.S Berlin Sector : 1,582 147,000,000

Property Units Seized and Their Value in Marks.

The report stated that number of Ger-
man State and NSDAP properties under
control at the end of April amounted to
70 percent of the total properties under
control. Their estimated value was
RM_3,819,600,000 or 61 percent of the
total value. Of all the property in custody
real estate units were the most numerous,
although industrial units totaled the
greatest value.

NEW RATIONING SYSTEM

(Continued from page 9)

an increase in sugar stocks by imports
from the Soviet Zone in exchange for
cattle.

The new system of rationing, which
differentiates between inhabitants of large
and small cities, is based upon recogni-
tion of the fact that during the next few
months, persons in the latter category
will derive more benefit from the fruits
and vegetables now becoming available
and will have more opportunity to culti-
vate gardens.

The average ration for normal con-
sumers under the new ration plan will be
approximately 1225 calories daily.

During the new four week ration per-
iod, normal consumers will receive an
additional 200 grams of meat, an addi-
tional 124 grams of sugar and 300 grams
of dried vegetables, which heretofore have
not been available to this extent in all
areas of the US Zone.

An additional 3000 grams of skim milk
is also provided. Most of this milk will
be issued as dried milk at one part dried
to 10 parts liquid. This is the ratio at
which dried milk is reconstituted to li-
quid form.

Other changes in the ration provide a
slight decrease in the allotments of cheese
and pulses (dried peas and beans) and a
supplemental daily ration to all persons
over seventy years of age of one quarter
liter of skim milk. If this is not avail-
able, they will be given one can of eva-
porated milk weekly.

Through this new program of provid-
ing a larger ration to the less well sup-
plied large city areas, the Laenderrat
hopes to achieve a fairer distribution of
available food in the US Zone, Food
Commissioner Dietrich explained, partic-
ularly since supplies from gardens and
nearby farms are not available to the
same extent during the summer months.

16

--- Page 20 ---
General

OMGUS MAINTAINS

NO BARTER IN INTERZONAL TRADE

In turning down a recent Laenderrat

proposal for a series of interzonal barter
’ transactions, OMGUS reaffirmed its anti-
barter policy as follows:

“Military Government policy is oppos-
ed to barter transactions. This policy has
been explained many times to the Main
Economics Committee and the Laender-
rat itself has passed resolutions along the
same line. It is to be noted in this con-
nection that the authority given to the
Laenderrat over ‘interzonal trade does
not include the authority to approve bar-
ter transactions.

“The objective, in accordance with the
provisions of the Berlin Protocol and
basic US policy that Germany is to be
treated as a single economic unit, is that
there should be an equitable distribution
of the resources of Germany as a whole
throughout Germany. It is fully realized,
however, that under present conditions
unless some basis is provided for balanc-
ing trade between zones, there is a pos-
sibility of one zone being unduly drained
with no corresponding trade being realiz-
ed from the other zones. Such balancing,
however, should be obtained on an over-
all basis rather than on the basis of in-
dividual transactions. Global allocations
between zones for a specified period of
time covering all major items is one
means by which such balancing could be
effected. The balancing, however, should
be on the basis of a considerable period
of time and if possible, should be sought
on the basis of trade with all zones rath-
er than with one other zone. In instances
where arrangements are made by the Al-
lied Control Authority or between

17

OMGUS and Military Government for
another zone for pooling of receipts from
exports from the US Zone with receipts
from exports from another zone, items
shipped in export should be included also
as items balancing interzonal trade trans-
actions, and the Laenderrat will be noti-
fied of any such arrangements . . .”

“If the Laenderrat finds that a major
transaction of vital importance cannot
be consummated except on a barter basis,
the proposed transaction will be submit-
ted to this Headquarters along with a
detailed statement of the reasons why
the transaction is considered of vital
importance and of the efforts that have
been made to consummate the transac-
tion on a non-barter basis. This Head-
quarters will then attempt to effect ar-
rangements for carrying out the trans-
action on a non-barter basis and may, in
certain instances where this cannot be
done, give approval for the transaction
to be consummated on a barter basis. Ex-
ceptions, however, will not be made with
respect to any but major transactions of
vital importance to the zone.”

Additional German Voters

Persons exonerated under the Law for
Liberation from National Socialism and
Militarism too late to register for the
coming elections may participate in the
30 June voting nevertheless. OMGUS has
just issued a directive to the three Land
Governments in the US Zone establish-
ing a procedure for their inclusion.

To enable these persons to cast legal
ballots in the forthcoming elections, even
though registration is closed, electoral

--- Page 21 ---
certificates (Wahlscheine) will be issued.
The issuance of Wahlscheine is in ac-
cordance with a well established German
practice when qualified voters have been
omitted from registration rolls and it is
too late to amend the register.

Persons not yet registered as voters
who have been classified as “followers”
under the Law for Liberation will be
permitted to vote in the 30 June election,
if they have paid their fines and are
otherwise qualified to vote. This proce-
dure is in keeping with MG policy that
nominal Nazis who have made restitution
may regain their civil rights.

OMGUS Conserves Food

To conserve grains, fats and oils, the
most critical food items in world short
supply, OMGUS has issued the follow-
ing instructions to its Berlin personnel
which will be of interest and assistance
to Mess Officers in the field.

Boil or broil foods usually fried; render
used fats and reuse them; use boiled
dressings instead of oil dressings; sub-
stitute fruit and other desserts for pas-
tries and cakes; serve open-faced instead
of double crusted pies; use substitutes
for wheat cereals.

Civilian Travel Passes

Semi-permanent travel permits to other
zones for business and other essential
reasons, are being issued at a rate of 300
to 400 a month to German residents of
the US Zone, the American office of the
Interzonal Facilities Section, Allied Con-
trol Council revealed.

Although the interzonal pass. system
was originated by the ACA last Decem-
ber and implemented in the US Zone by
a USFET directive in January 1946, ope-
ration of this travel authorization did not
get under way until the first of May. Be-
tween 300 and 400 passes were issued
during the first month of operation, but
the-permits are expected. to. be issued in

greater volume as the. operation con- --

18

tinues. Approximately an equal number
of Germans of other zones are being
cleared for travel in the US Zone.

Germans eligible for the travel permits
are restricted to certain categories, in-
cluding those employed in central ad-
ministrative agencies under the Control
Council, ecclesiastical dignitaries, clergy,
doctors, technicians in reconstruction
projects, agents and businessmen of en-
terprises egaged in interzonal trade.

Each applicant in the US Zone must go
to the Public Safety Officer of the local
MG to fill out the prescribed form and
prove his business is legitimate. The ap-
plication is then sent to the Interzonal
Authority Section in Berlin where its
processing includes approval of the. pro-
per authorities of the other zones concern-
ed and properly endorsed. It is returned
to the local MG for delivery to. the ap-
plicant.

Passes are generally for six months,
but some are issued for shorter periods
according to the business to be transac-
ted. No cases of abuse of this privilege
have been reported, but it has been found
that many applicants do not come within
the categories as specified in the Control
Council and USFET directives.

Bavarian Labor Congress

Before 700 delegates to the first free
labor union congress in Bavaria in 13
years, Maj. Clarence M. Bolds, chief of
the Manpower Division, OMG for Ba-
varia, declared Thursday that Military
Government’s labor policy had “broaden-
ed to one of active aggressive encourage-
ment” of labor unions.

“This is no hollow statement,” the
Major said. “It is a directive to us from
higher headquarters and we have. taken
aggressive action to effectuate it. Your
being here today is in part the result of
that action.”

He added that MG had purposely re-
frained from too close supervision of the
reviving Bavarian_labor movement to per-

--- Page 22 ---
mit it freedom in selecting its own lead-
ers and forms of organization.

During the sessions they will organize
land-wide unions for each industry as
well as a labor federation of all Bavarian
trade unions.

Rhine ‘Patton Bridge’ Opened

The “Patton Bridge” across the Rhine
at Cologne, named in honor of US Gen.
George S. Patton, jr., was opened Tuesday
by Gen. Joseph T. McNarney, European
Theater commander. In his speech at the
inaugural ceremony, he paid tribute to the
late wartime US Third Army leaders as
one of the Allies most capable generals.

Turning to the role of the bridge in the
reconstruction phase, Gen. McNarney
said: “Let us hope that the new bridge
will create better conditions for normal
traffic over the Rhine near Cologne and
that it will show the German people the
way into a better future.”

Reporting on construction, the chief of
the British engineers stated that the bridge
had been built in eight months by 500
British troops and 900 German work-
men. ‘More than 2,400 tons of steel and
28,000 cubic feet of lumber were used.

Interzonal Conferences

Facilitation of inter-zonal trade was the
primary purpose of a two day conference
between German economic officials of the
American and Soviet Zones of Germany
held in mid-June at the offices of the
Central Administration for Trade in the
Russian Zone, located in the Russian
sector of Berlin.

The conference was called at the in-
vitation of German economic officials of
the Russian Zone. Heading the delegation
from the American Zone were the econ-
omic ministers of the three Laender, Dr.
Ludwig Erhard of Bavaria, Dr. Rudolph
Mueller of Greater Hesse and Dr. Hein-
rich Koehler of Wuerttemberg-Baden.

At the same time German food mini-
sters of the British and American Zones

19

met in Hamburg to discuss common food
problems.

Public Welfare Training

Recognizing the need for more trained
German public welfare workers the Of-
fice of Military Government of Land
Greater Hesse is working closely with
the Minister of Labor and Welfare of the
Land government to develop a new type
of training course for male administra-
tors in the welfare programs. Under MG
supervision plans are under way for the
development of a three month course
for thirty carefully selected young Ger-
man administrators. They will receive
two months of theoretical training and
one month of on-the-job training in the
Land Ministry and its principal subordi-
nate agencies throughout the Land.

In order that proper personnel can be
found, regardless of their economic sta-
tus, the Land government is prepared to
pay the cost of maintenance of the stu-
dents while in training. This is an innova-
tion in German social work training and
is a start towards filling the great gap
in social work personnel created by the
widespread nazification of German wel-
fare agencies. There is particular need
for trained welfare workers in the
work of the welfare agencies in the care
of refugees and expellees who are com-
ing into the Land in great numbers.

Press Control

German civilian officials must be
blocked in their tendencies to muzzle re-
porters from licensed German newspa-
per, delegates to a Zone-wide informa-
tion control conference at the Office of
Military Government for Greater Hesse
agreed recently. Instances were cited
where American-appointed civilian offic-
ials had attempted to restrict the issu-
ance of German government information
to official channels.

In another case, a German civil admin-
istration had sought passage of a law to
make the local licensed newspaper the

--- Page 23 ---
official newspaper with the obligation to
print all items sent to it by the administra-
tion. All such unauthorized press con-
trols have been nullified but-it was agreed
that eternal vigilance will be required
until the Germans themselves become ac-
customed of a near-free press.

Home Folks Indifferent

The American public seems indifferent
to the vital importance of what is being
attempted in Germany with respect to
its impact on the problem of war or peace
in the future, Colonel William W. Daw-
son, Director of Military Government
for Baden, told a meeting of MG field
representatives in this Land upon his
resumption of command after two months’
temporary duty in the United States.

“We must rely upon the intelligent
reporting of the situation here by the press
to awaken the public to our needs and
problems,” Colonel Dawson said. “We
must expect and invite the closest scru-
tiny of our work. As representatives of our
government, we must be above suspicion
in both our public and private lives.”

In contrast to what he called the le-
thargy of the public, Colonel Dawson said
there is a keener realization than ever be-
fore among government circles that MG
in Germany must achieve its objectives.
He praised highly the new orientation
program given military and civilian per-
sonnel before they leave the Unites States
to take MG jobs in Germany.

Mata Hari Out

Doctor Erna Schmidt Rohrer, 46, Chief
of the Textile Division in the German
Land Economics Office, was sentenced to
two years in prison last night for falsifi-
cation of her political questionnaire, the
Intermediate Court Officer, Office of MG
for Greater Hesse, announced.

The Fragebogen, filled out in February
of 1946, did not list her war-time activi-
ties with the Abwehr, a German Coun-
ter Intelligence Organization. At present
her former position in the Abwehr is not

20

regarded as politically criminal, but war-
ranted an automatic arrest at the time
the Fragebogen was submitted, the of-
ficial disclosed.

As the court announced the sentence,
Frau Schmidt Rohrer sneered insultingly.
She was sharply reprimanded, and was
warned that her sentence could: be in-
creased for contempt. of court.

School for Financiers

The second group of 50 prospective
German financiers has been graduated
from the Greater Hesse Finance School
at Langen, near Frankfurt, after complet-
ing an intensive six-week course.

“The only school of its kind in the
US Zone, it is part of a three-fold pro-
gram launched by the Greater Hesse
Ministry of Finance to fill the gap left
in the wake of thorough denazification of
the public finance agencies,” an MG. of-
ficial declared. “All but four of the first
group of 50 graduates received immediate
employment in the Greater Hesse Finance
Ministry and 49 of the second group were
employed upon graduation.” “Howeyer,”
he added, “this still leaves. the Ministry
with little more then half of the 4,753
finance specialists it employed in 1939.”

Students are offered a variety of sub-
jects, ranging from auditing to tax col-
lecting. They are familiarized with every
phase of the public finance system and,
upon successful completion of the course,
they are eligible for positions in any
department of the Finance Ministry.

In order to increase the versatility of
the average employee who has beentrain-
ed to do only one specific job, Public
Finance offices throughout Land Greater
Hesse are conducting a four-hour weekly
course to. acquaint their personnel with
correlated: finance functions. Thus, oné
specialist can hold two or more positions
in case of emergency. As a final measure
designed to fill its personnel require-
ments, the Ministry has called upon
Greater Hesse university faculties to
arouse more interest in finance courses.

--- Page 24 ---
German Reactions

“The People Shall Decide” =

Berlin Newspapers ConsiderProposedPlebitcite on
Expropriation for Soviet Zone Province of Saxony =)

The leadership of the CDU, at its last
session, entirely sided with the funda-
mental principles of the law relating to
the expropriation of works belonging to
war and Nazi criminals in Saxony and
shifting them to public property, reports
the Berlin CDU organ Neue Zeit.

“The Christian Democration Union is
convinced that those circles which have
brought Germany and the world into the
disaster of this war must have their
economic instruments taken away” stated
the paper, adding further that “the Union
urges that the holding of the plebiscite
be contemplated on the expropriation of
war criminals and Nazi criminals.”

“The Union opines that a change of the
German social and economic structure
must not be realized in one part of Ger-
many; but will have to be carried through
only according to a plan concerning all
of Germany” continued the paper.

Der Morgen, LDP sponsored paper,
quotes Dr. Kuelz, head of the Liberal
Democratic Party, as saying that “after
the Laender administration and the par-
ties in Saxony decided to clear up the
problem of the expropriation of the works
of war criminals and mongers by
means of a plebiscite, it goes without
saying that the LDP takes part without
reservation in this entirely democratic
measure.”

The Berliner Zeitung, Soviet licensed
morning paper, carried a banner head
over the full page spread reading: “The
People Shall Decide.” The paper goes
on to say that “in Saxony for the first

21

time we are getting at the roots ‘of the
danger of war.” Denying that the. plebis-
cite means socialization, the papér. states
that only one-sixth of all works in Sax-
ony have been placed on the expropria-
tion list, and only part will remain pub-
lic property.

Also denying that the plebiscite -con-
stitutes. socialization, the central organ
of the SED, Neues Deutschland, declares
that‘ the plebiscite concerns only works
of war and Nazi criminals, while at the
same time numerous commissions check
on every single case to decide whether
the proposed expropriation is legal or not.

Youth Parliament

.. Considerable space, has been devoted
in Berlin newspapers to the Free German
Youth movement meeting recently held
in Brandenburg, where a central leader-
ship council of 62 members was elected
with Eric Honecker as head.

. Neues Deutschland, Socialist Unity
Party organ, declares that“... The first
youth parliament at Brandenburg show-
ed all people who are still doubtful that
our youth is young again and has the
firm will to create something new and
powerful.” The paper continues that “in
order to forge the unity of the youth
movement in the west too, it is neces-
sary to have confidence, sincerity, and
determination. The delegates went home
from the first parliament of youth taking
with them the firm determination to
create everywhere a uniform and strong

--- Page 25 ---
youth movement which will overcome all
difficulties ...”

Der Tagesspiegel, US overt paper sta-
tes: “We are sorry not to be able to

give detailed information on this parlia-
* ment which, as we want once again to
stress, is only a meeting of delegates
of the ‘Free German Youth,’ the youth
organization of the Russian zone, and
which is not a parliament of the youth,
because the organizational committee of
the FDJ did not give us permission to
send a representative to Brandenburg, in
spite of our request.”

“... The ‘spirit’ of the parliament of
this Free German Youth by no means
resembled the adventurous humbug of
the Hitler Youth,” declares the Berliner
Zeitung, Soviet licensed morning paper.
“,... The youth wants to create today
a democratic unity which leaves room
for the attitudes of the various ideolo-
gies, parties and faiths. The most impor-
tant result of the Brandenburg youth
parliament js the fact that it has refuted
the claims of sceptical people and has
proved that the German youth finds a
way to democracy, and this means Ger-
many has a future.”

First Anniversary of German Parties
All Berlin. papers made note of the
first anniversary of the formation of par-
ties in Berlin. The Tagliche Rundschau
devoted an inner page to statements by
Pieck, Grotewohl, Kaiser, and Kuelz.
The Soviet controlled organs placed
much emphasis on Order No. 2 issued

by Marshall Zhukov, calling it the basis
for democratic development in. Germany.

Sozialdemokrat, organ of the SPD,
called the order the “Magna Charter of
Democracy.”

The British sponsored paper Telegraf
pointed out that too many people are
leaving the work to the Allies and to
only a few politically active people. “The
whole world” declared the paper, “wants
to see an active collaboration in ‘the re-
construction of a real democratic state.
It is a disillusioning fact that only cir-
cles which were politically active before
1933 have returned to party ‘life, and
these circles in many cases try to pick
up their work where it was ended — dis-
regarding the last thirteen years — and
this is a mistake.”

In conclusion, the paper advised against
taking a step backward, warning the
LDP and the CDU that they should side
with the SPD in order to defend them-
selves against any coercion.

In its roundup of the past year, Neues
Deutschland, mouthpiece of the Socialist
Unity Party, concluded by remarking that
“at a time when the whole bourgeoisie
world was discussing the measures by
which the German people could be re-
educated, the Soviet occupation force
boldly gave the task of reshaping Ger-
man conditions into the hands of the
anti-fascist forces of our people, thus
providing for a free development of our
political life. We continue our recon-
struction work of a German democracy
knowing that the Soviet force will be a
good friend of our young democracy.”

22

--- Page 26 ---
Press and RadioCtomments

German Women Desire Confact With Other Countries

Says Woman Foreign Correspondent

What are German women talking and
thinking about these days, asks Elsie N.
Adam of The Scotsmann ?

“Food mainly, that goes without say-
ing. ‘Es ist sehr schwer — Life is very
hard,’ they say to you shaking their
heads a shade reproachfully.

“During a two months’ tour of Ger-
many, in the American, French and Bri-
tish Zones, I made it my business to
talk to as many women in as many walks
of life as I could. I found most of them
friendly, almost too friendly in a sense.
Needless to say, they all assured me that
they were ‘nicht Nazi.’ How far to trust
what they said was a matter for one’s
own judgment. Obviously the working
man’s wife who told me that she and her
familiy were living on a starvation diet,
and in whose larder I presently saw
stacks of margarine and other provisions
was a bad witness.

“The people who have a little land
where they can grow vegetables and keep
poultry are not too badly off, but it is
not true to say, as has been done, that
the country people are hoarding enough
to keep the towns from hunger would
they but share it.

“I did not find many women inclined
to talk politics. What someone who
knows Germany well, both pre-war and
post-war said about the men holds true
for the women: ‘People seem to imagine
that Germany is divided into three par-
ties: Social Democrats, Christian Demo-

23

crats and Communists. The truth is that
the majority could not care less. They
are sick and tired of politics.’

‘“Among the intellectual women, I was
conscious of an intense feeling of loneli-
less and isolation. One said, ‘we have
been cut off for so long. Tell us what
the women in America and Britain are
saying and thinking. We look to you
for help. Could you send me some old
newspapers?’

“Perhaps the most tragic aspect of
life in the war-ridden countries of Eu-
rope just now is its hopelessness. The
nicest German women I met — and there
are nice ones even now! — want only
one thing: To get away from Germany
and acquire some other nationality. That
hunger for contact with the women of
other lands is a very real thing, and if
something could be done to satisfy it by
way of books, magazines, papers, films,
lectures or personal contacts, it might
do as much toward building a healthier-
minded Germany as anything else. Even
in a country where women have been
allowed to count so little politically, they
wield a tremendous influence.”

WEREWOLF PROPAGANDA

The “Werwolf Mind” grips the Reich
claims Erika Mann, daughter of the
famous German author, Thomas Mann.
In an article in the Chicago News she
writes: “Army intelligence personnel call
the Werwolf and related beasts — a
nuisance rather than a meancce. They say

--- Page 27 ---
that, as a national or zone-wide organiza-
tion, the Werewolf may not even exist.

“What does exist, however, and what
is far more significant and disturbing, is
the Werewolf as a national state of mind.

“Each for himself, ‘and without having
to conspire with each other, today’s Ger-
man seeks to achieve:

— A minimum of effort and hardsip
to, himself. ;

— A maximum of-annoyance and harm
to, his conquerors.

“Among the propaganda devices which
the average German rightly considers
useful ‘to’ himself and costly to the in-
vader is the notion of a starving Ger-
many, of people collapsing in the streets

from malnutrition.

- “But whereas the rest of Europe, in-
cluding England, has -gone hungry for
six years, the Germans only now feel the
pinch. Their health as yet is compara-
tively good.”

NEW RHINELAND PARTY — A THREAT?

John Elliot in an article in the New
York Herald Tribune states that all of
the Rhineland’s big political parties are
definitely committed to the idea of a
united Germany. Yet they are all afraid
of a hitherto obscure Rhinelander who
has started a mass movement to detach
the Rhineland from the Reich.

“Dr. Fritz Opitz, thirty-six year old
leader of the Rhenish Peoples Party, is
feared by the Communists, Socialists,
Democrats, and Christian Democratic
Union because his party has the avowed
objective of setting up a Rhine republic.

“An independent Rhineland is the only
guaranty of peace, Dr. Opitz believes.
History has showed over and over again
that a strong Germany dominated by
Prussia means a war of expansion.

“Dr. Konrad Adenauer, who is easily the
outstanding political leader inthe Rhine-
land and now is head of the Christian
Democratic Union in the British Zone, ad-
mitted his uneasiness over the political
potentialities of the upstart movement.”

FUTURE GERMAN CITIES

Building reconstruction is a vitally im-
teresting topic to the Germans opines
J. Emlyn Williams of the Christian
Science Monitor. He writes that one of
the liveliest and most interesting circles
today centers around the problem as to
how and when bombed-out cities are to
be rebuilt.

“When the topic of physical rebuilding

arises the German appears to feel that

24

there iis a subject on which he has
something definite to say and this fact
helps to remove his sense of frustration.

“Whether it be in Berlin or Munich,
Frankfurt or Nuremberg, Hamburg or the
Ruhr cities, this problem of reconstruc-
tion seems to be most fascinating for the
Germans.

“And it is a’ significant insight into
his character that one notes that he
thinks less about how these cities are
to be rebuilt from the viewpoint of find-
ing the necessary finance than how they
can in the future be an improvement upon
the past so as to satisfy the probable
requirements two or three generations
hence. .

“Having cleared away or stacked up
most of the rubble from the main thor-
oughfares city architects and surveyors
are spending whatever spare time they
have after trying to improve accommoda-
tion of bombed-out dwellings, poring over
plans and diagrams of future municipal
projects.

“The Germans, in rebuilding plans, are
not concentrating simply on dim distant
projects. Obvious needs around them
must first be attended to. In the building
trade today priority is given to the re-
pair of damaged houses.

“Of 300,000 damaged in the war about
47,000 have been made habitable, and it
is expected that this number will in-
crease to 100,000 by the end of this year.
It is also hoped to complete the building
of some large tenement blocks which were
begun before the war but left unfinished
when Hitler marched into Poland.”

--- Page 28 ---
ANTI-SEMITISM OVER EUROPE

The anti-Semitism Hitler stirred up
still pervades Europe today in degrees
varying largely with economic opportu-
nity, says Mary Hornaday of the Christ-
ian Science Monitor. ‘

“Recent piecemeal press reports of the
murder of Jews by roaming bands of
Polish terrorists and other extreme ex-
amples of anti-Semitism have now been
supplemented by a comprehensive .sur-
vey by the Anglo-American Palestine In-
quiry Committee on the prevalence of
anti-Jewish feeling in Europe, country
by country.

“Failure of a large part of Europe
to recuperate economically has also ad-
ded to the friction. Gentiles are afraid of
having to restore to Jews property on
which, during the occupation, they came
to depend.

“In some places the granting of busi-
ness licenses has been made subject to
conditions of languages and possession
of capital which Jews cannot meet.

Here is the Jewish plight in brief as
the Anglo-American investigators found
it:

“Germany: In some German circles
there is much shame and a desire to re-
compense the 20,000 native Jews still
surviving in Germany, but in others there
is the feeling no attempt should be made
to recreate Jewish life for fear of repeti-
tion of ‘past troubles.’ Unless greater
opportunities for employment can be
found soon, few German Jews will wish
to remain in the country.

“Austria: Government policy is to re-
habilitate Jews on a basis of full equal-
ity and without discrimination, but anti-
Semitism still exists among the general
population.

“Poland: The committee reported “a
very considerable measure of hostility
among the population towards the Jews.”
Stories are related of Jews being reter-
red from claiming what was lawfully
theirs by threats to their personal safety

Enforcement of laws protecting Jews is
spasmodic and ineffective.

“France: About 20,000 recent Jewish
refugees are handicapped by difficulty
in securing permits to work or travel.

“Czechoslovakia: In the Czech pro-
vinces the process of property restitur
tion is still in its initial stages, but the
Council of Jewish Communities has ex-
pressed confidence Jews will take their
place in the life of the Republic. In Slo-
vakia the government and intellectual
leaders are working furiously to repu-
diate anti-Semitism, though the policy
of the state in sponsoring co-operatives
is making it difficult for Jews and others
to gain a footing in retail business.

“Italy: The Italian government and
people are friendly to non-Italian Jews
but under present economic conditions
is unable to assimilate them, even if they
wished to stay. Most Jews generally
regard Italy only as a point of departure
for Palestine.

“Greece, Belgium, and the Netherlands
were found to be free from anti-Semitism
though about half the Jews in Greece
want to leave because of economic condi-
tions. Switzerland has agreed to keep
about 4,000 Jewish refugees if provision
is made for the their support.”

NAZI SCORE WAS 4 TO 1

In the opinion of Edward T. Leech,
editor of the Pittsburgh Press Germany
won the war — from the standpoint of
killing.

“The Nazis killed approximately four
other Europeans for every one they lost.
There are probably more Germans today
than before the war. There are far less
of other European people.

“A recent study by a committee on
European questions placed Germany’s
war dead at about 314 millions. It plac-
ed the losses of her European opponents
at about 15% millions — of which Rus-
sia lost about 7 millions and Poland
around 41 millions.

“Untold millions of men and women

--- Page 29 ---
were separated for years — by army
service deportation and slave labor and
by the scattering of refugee families. In
Germany industrial conscription of wo-
men was avoided by the use of slave
labor. And Hitler largely maintained the
birth rate among these women, legitima-
tely or illegitimately.

“And so today you see plenty of babies
and little children in every German town
and village, and the German population
probably exceeds 70,000,000 as against
about 67,000,000 prewar.

“These people are defeated. Their
towns are wiped out, their industries
destroyed, their bridges blasted and their
loot taken away. They are poor and
hungry and unarmed. They are docile and
smiling and respectful to our ‘occupying
forces.

But they feel no sense of guilt, no in-
dividual blame. They blame us, instead,
for not rebuilding their cities.

“The Military Government has done a
good job of destroying Germany’s mili-
tary might and its economic and _ in-
dustrial strength. And it still has to do
the job of trying to build a democratic
spirit among them.

“It’s the biggest experiment America
ever tackled. It’s expensive. It’s incon-
venient. But having had a close look, I
am convinced that if we quit now or, for
that matter, any time within the next 10
or 15 years — there will be chaos and
disaster. And perhaps in the next gen-
eration another German war machine.”

WORLD POLICE CONSIDERED IDEAL

Warning that the atomic bomb con-
fronted civilization with only two altern-
atives — peace or destruction — General
George C. Kenney, senior US member of
the UN military staff committee, told
a radio audience that the only real guar-
antee against future wars was a “world
of united states” toward which the Uni-
ted Nations was a step in the right direc-
tion. Kenney participated in the Univer-
sity of Chicago Round Table discussion
ion the UN military staff committee.

General Kenney said the members of
the committee have, on occasion, had dif-
ferences of view, but “the main thing is
that in spite of difficulties in language,
differences of concepts and viewpoints,
we always seem to find some basis for
agreement. It may be slow but it is
progress nevertheless.”

The military staff committee is work-
ing under a directive from the UN Se-
curity Council to examine the military
implications of article 43 of the UN
Charter. This article provides that var-
ious members of the UN will make avail-
able to the Council on its call armed
forces and facilities — including rights
of passage — for use in the preservation
of international peace and security.

General Kenney said the ideal to work
for — as opposed to the present UN
structure — is “a real world police force
which is recruited, maintained, and sup-
plied as independent entity and which is
larger than the force of any single mem-
ber which might break peace.”

26

--- Page 30 ---
DEMOCRATIC SELF GOVERNMENT

(Continued from page 8)

plishment was the drafting of the de-
nazification law, under which the Ger-
mans themselves assume the responsibilty
for enforcing the de-nazification and de-
militarization of their country. This mea-
ure has been strengthsened by the adop-
tion of two later laws providing punish-
ment for crimes condoned by the Nazis
and clearing the records of people pers-
ecuted by them.

OTHER RESPONSIBILITIES

The Laenderrat also has undertaken
such programs as those for assuming
responsibility for operations of railroads,
postal sevice, telephones and telegraph.
A transport directorate, a senior post
directorate and a weather service for the
American Zone have been established.
The Laenderrat has taken over the re-
sponsibility of receiving and distributing
food in the Zone and the American Sec-
tor of Berlin and established an office of
Food and Agriculture Commissioner, with
broad powers, who will work toward
more efficient production and distribution
of domestic foodstuffs and import stocks.

Another program of great importance
for which the Laenderrat has assumed
responsibility, and for which it has now
a working program, is the reception, re-
habilitation and resettlement of the hun-
dreds of thousands of “expellee” German
nationals now flooding into the American
occupation Zone from the countries to
the east.

At the 7 May 1946 meeting, when he
expanded the authority of the Laender-
rat over civil administration matters in
the US Zone, General Clay also gave the
council the right to make decisions

with regard to relationships with Ger-
man civil administrations of other zones.

The Laenderrat has shown a marked
ability to negotiate with German civil
authorities of the other zones on prob-
lems of mutual interest. It worked out
a program with the French Zone for the
exchange of native Germans of the two
zones, not now in the zone in which
they belong.

Several conferences on economics, in-
terzonal trade, and food and agricultural
problems have been held with German
agencies of the British Zone. The two
zones now have permanent liaison of-
fices on economics and agriculture.

One of the top German officials of the
Soviet Zone, “Landes Praesident” Rudolf
Paul of Thuringia, attended the 4 June
1946 meeting of the Laenderrat, opening
the way for further exchange of ideas
between the civilian agencies of his area

and the US Zone.
LASTING CONTRIBUTION

The council has instilled in its mem-
bership and staff the realization of the
need for the cooperative effort that will
be necessary all over Germany to bring
about the economic unity prescribed by
the Potsdam agreement and toward
which United States occupation policy
has always worked. It has furnished a
more lasting contribution in providing
the training ground for the assumption
of governmental responsibility within a
democratic framework. It has strength-
ened the states of the American Zone
and thus better prepared them for their
future integration into a German federal
system.

27.

--- Page 31 ---
Station List

Military Government Elements

UNIT OR OFFICE OF LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Joseph McNarney

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, US

Office of Mil Gov
for Germany, US

Berlin

LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

LtGen Lucius D Clay, Deputy

Military Governor ye pny
‘Maj Gen C L Adcock, Assistant

Deputy Military Governor

Office of Mil Gov Stuttgart :
for Wirttemberg-Baden Lt Col M O Edwards
1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 154)
Hq 1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart Lt Col M O Edwards
Hg & Sv Co . Stuttgart 1st Lt J P Clifford
‘Stuttgart Area
*SK Stuttgart Stuttgart Lt Cot C L Jackson
*LK Béblingen Boblingen 1st Lt O P Johnson
*LK Esslingen Esslingen Capt H D Peterson
*LK Ludwigsburg Ludwigsburg 1st Lt R C McAuley
*LK Waiblingen Waiblingen Capt J B Cress
*LK Backnang Backnang 1st Lt R R Mayer
*LK Leonberg Leonberg Capt W J Vallaza
*LK Nirtingen Nartingen Maj.S A Warren
*LK Vaihingen Vaihingen 1st Lt US Aiello
Mannheim Area
*SK Mannheim Mannheim , -MajMLHoover  _
*SK/LK Heidelberg Heidelberg Lt Col-W T Burt .
*LK Buchen Buchen det Lt'G H Wright
*LK Mosbach Mosbach oc “LtLBéeck-
*LK Tauberbischofsheim Tauberbischofsheim 1st Lt J Zecca
*LK Sinsheim Sinsheim . 1st Lt D E Bedard
Karlsruhe Area
*SK/LK Karlsruhe Karlsruhe Maj W T Neel
*SK/LK Pforzheim Pforzheim 1st Lt N Semaschko
*LK Bruchsa Bruchsal 1st Lt L L Goldman
Heilbronn Area
*LK Heilbronn Heilbronn Maj M W Terry
*LK Crailsheim Crailsheim 1st Lt R E Alley
*LK Schwabisch Halt Schwabisch Hall Capt CS Keena
*LK Kinzelsau Kiinzelsau Capt C E McGaffey
*LK Mergentheim Bad Mergentheim Capt R Forrest
*LK Ochringen Ohringen 1st Lt M Korsun
Ulm Area
*LK ULM Ulm Capt R N Tharp
*LK Aalen- Aalen Capt R H Nation
*LK Schwabisch Gemiind Schwabisch Gemiind 1st Lt J E Switzer
*LK Géppingen Géppingen Capt R Kennedy
*LK Heidenheim Heidenheim Maj B V Bloom

*Liason and Security

28

--- Page 32 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Office of Mil Gov
for Greater Hesse

Hq 2nd MG Bn (Sep)
Hg Co 2nd MG Bn (Sep)
Sy Co 2nd MG Bn (Sep)
US Ln Det (Ruhr)
US Ln Det (Saar)

*SK Frankfurt
*SK Wiesbaden
*LK Wetzlar
*LK Dill

*LK Geinhausen.
*LK Biedenkopf
*SK/LK Hanau
*LK Oberlahn
*LK Limburg
*LK Maintaunus
*LK Rheingau
*LK Obertaunus
*LK Usingen
*LK Untertaunus
*LK Schliichtern

*SK/LK Kassel
*LK Melsungen
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*LK Ziegenhain
*SK/LK Marburg
*SK/LK Fulda
*LK Hinfeld

*LK Waldeck

*LK Frankenberg
*LK Eschwege
*LK Witzenhausen
*LK Hersfeld

*LK Rotenburg = -
*LK Hofgeismar
*LK Wofthagen
*SK/LK Darmstadt
*LK Gross-Gerau
*SK/LK Offenbach
*LK Bergstrasse
*LK Erbach

*LK Bidingen
*LK Dieburg

*LK Friedberg
*SK/LK Giessen
*LK Lauterbach
*LK Alsfeld

*Liaison and security

LAND GREATER HESSE
Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep)

Wiesbaden
Oberurset
Wiesbaden

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

Frankfurt
Wiesbaden
Wetzlar
Dillenburg
Gelnhausen
Biedenkopf
Hanau
Weilburg
Limburg
Hofheim
Ridesheim
Bad Homburg
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
‘Schliichtern

Regterungsbezirk Kassel

Kassel
Melsungen
Fritzlar
Ziegenhain
Marburg
Fulda
Hinfeld
Korbach
Frankenberg
Eschwege
Wit usen
Hersfeld
Rotenburg
Hofgeismar
Wolfhagen
Darmstadt
Gross-Gerau
Offenbach
Heppenheim
Erbach
Bidingen
Dieburg
Friedberg
Giessen
Lauterbach
Alsfeld

29

Col JR Newman

Lt Col SS Graham
Capt H E York
Capt B A Sturdevan
Capt G E Skaggs
Capt M Dowd

Col R K Phelps
Maj M E Chotas
Capt M § Clark
Capt E G Stolper
Capt J G Bennas
Capt T E Faircloth
Maj E J Emerick
Capt A G Volz
Capt P H Olsen
Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hintz
Capt L F Jones
Capt R F Gibney
Capt T W Harris
Capt S B Borda

Lt Col W R Swarm
Maj W CGipple
Capt G D Fexy
Capt R B Elwell
Lt Col L G Kelly
Lt Col H R Cress
Capt E T Tedick
Capt D W Shea
Maj LS Williams
Capt J F Philp
Maj LH Brown
Maj M Baymor
Capt C W Davis
CaptL R Allen
Capt S A Karas

Lt Col A Skarry
Capt H L Edberg
Capt 1 Bencowitz
Maj R A Gish
Capt R O Didlo
Capt N V Steenberg
Capt J S Chapin
Capt CS Parshall
Maj C F Russe
Capt H Nickelsberg
Capt H B Miller

--- Page 33 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Office of Mil Gov
for Bavaria

Hq 3rd Mil Govt Regt
Hq Company
Sv Company

Co A, RB Mainfranken
*SK/LK Wiarzburg
*SK/LK Aschaffenburg
*SK/LK Schweinfurt
*LK Kissingen

*LK Kitzingen

*LK Alzenau

*LK Briickenau

*LK Ebern

*LK Gemiinden

*LK Geroizhofen .
*LK Hammelburg
*LK Hassfurt

*LK Hofheim

*LK Karlstadt

*LK Kénigshofen

*LK Lohr

*LK Marktheidenfeld
*LK Mellrichstadt
*LK Miltenberg

*LK Neustadt a, d. Saale
*LK Obernburg

*LK Ochsenfurt

CoB Rb Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

*SK/LK Nirnberg
*SK/LK Bamber,
*SK/LK Bayreu
*SK/LK Erlangen
*SK/LK Coburg
*SK/LK Hof
*SK/LK Ansbach
*SK/LK Firth
*SK/LK Kulmbach
*LK Kronach

*LK Lichtenfeis
*LK Ebermannstadt
*LK Hochstadt a, d. Aisch
*LK Pegnitz

*LK Munchberg
*LK Rehau

*LK Wunsiedel
*LK Forchheim
*LK Dinkelsbihl
*LK Eichstadt

*Liaison and security

LAND BAVARIA

Munieh

3rd Mil Gov Regt
(APO 170)
Munich
Munich
Munich

Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken

Wiarzburg
Wiarzburg
Aschaffenburg
Schweinfurt
Bad Kissingen
Kitzingen
Alzenau
sBriickenau
Ebern
Gemiinden
Gerolzhofen
Hammelburg
Hassfurt
Hofheim
Karlstadt
Kénigshofen
Lohr
Marktheidenfeld
Mellrichstadt
Miltenber,
Neustadt Saale
Obernburg
Ochsenfurt

Regierungsbezirk Ober & Mittelfranken

Ansbach
Nirnberg
Bamber;
Bayreu
Erlangen
Coburg
Hof
Ansbach
Farth
Kulmbach
Kronach
Lichtenfels
Ebermannstadt
Hochstadt
Pegnitz
Munchberg
Rehau
Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbahl
Eichstadt

30

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C C Morgan
Capt J W Preston
Capt L R Clark

Maj I P Chestnut
Maj M B Voorhees
Capt J R Hurst
Maj G M Marsh
Capt M A Potter
Capt M Colbert
Capt A T Neumann
Capt Grodzinski
1st Lt G Mair
Capt J J Cotter
1st Lt G F Feehan
Capt K L Ellis
Capt R E Hellmig
Capt F L Beelby
Capt W E Brayden

-Capt C Boden

Capt EE Kelly
Capt Griffin

1st Lt L K Owens
Capt O A Jenson
Capt E F Warnke
Capt J Bumic
Capt L A Lowell

Col E M Haight

Lt Col C Klise

Lt Col J R Case
Capt B F Stroup, Actg
Lt Col F M Guild
MajS Klein

Maj H L Woodall
Capt J R Palmer, Actg
Maj A C Abbott
Maj H T Lund
Capt J F Begley
Maj F W Crimp
Maj R T Boyer
Capt O E Palmer
Capt M G Stamatis
Maj H C Kauffman
Capt W W Evans
Maj T Cleary

Maj H W Zurn
Capt J F Wyatt
Capt R J Towle

--- Page 34 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

LOCATION DIRECTOR OR
MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER
*LK Feuchtwangen . Feuchtwangen 1st Lt D J Smith
*LK Gunzenhausen Gunzenhausen Maj R J Nielson
*LK Hersbruck Hersbruck 1st Lt L D Franklin
*LK Hipoltstein Hilpoltstein Capt R E Peters
*LK Weissenburg Weissenburg 1st Lt W C Williams
*LK Rothenburg Rothenburg Maj F K Hinchey
*LK Schwabach Schwabach Maj RE Stringer
*LK Scheinfeld Scheinfeld Capt G B Jones
*LK Uffenheim Windsheim Capt L C Wheeler
*LK Lauf Lauf Capt N A Carr
*LK Neustedt a, d. Aisch Neustadt a. d. Aisch Maj C J Cody
*LK Naila Naila Capt G N Hultren
*LK Stadtsteinach Stadtsteinach Capt H C Moore

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern & Oberpfalz

Co D, RB Niederbayern & Oberptalz
*SK/LK Regensburg
*SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt a. d. Wald
*SK/LK Passau

*SK/LK Amberg
*SK/LK Landshut
*SK/LK Straubing

*LK Cham

*LK Burglengenfeld
*LK Parsberg

*LK Tirschenreuth

*LK Neunburg vorm Walde
*LK Eschenbach

*LK Deggendorf

*LK Eggenfelden

*LK Grafenau

*LK Kelheim

*LK Landau a, d. Isar
*LK Pfarrkirchen

*LK Regen

*LK Vilshofen

*LK Vilsiburg

*LK Wolfstein

*LK Kemnath

*LK Nabburg

*LK Oberviechtach

*LK Riedenberg

*LK Vohenstrauss

*LK Roding :
*LK Waldmiinchen

*LK Beilngries

*LK Neumarkt i, d. Opf.
*LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg
*LK Bogen

*LK Dingolfing

*LK Griesbach

*LK Kotzing

*LK Mainburg

*LK Mallersdorf

*LK Rottenburg

*LK Viechtach

*LK Wegscheid

Co E, RB Oberbayern
*SK/LK Munich
*SK/LK Rosenheim

*Liaison and security

Regensburg
Regensburg
Weiden
Passau
Amberg
pea
Straubi
Cham a
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
_Tirschenreuth
Neunburg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsiburg
Wolfstein
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldminchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach
Katzting
Mainburg
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
Wegscheid

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Munich
Munich
Rosenheim

31

Lt Col G D Hastings
Capt J W Boffert
Maj G J Gainer

Maj HL Snapp

Maj J C Robertson
Maj T R B Coykendall
Capt G L Milner

1st Lt E A McNamara
1st Lt R W Corly

1st Lt P J Piccola
Capt L R Mariels
Capt R G Miller
Capt R O Woodward
1st Lt H Cohen

Lt S Fuchs

1st Lt R McWhorter
Capt D Stacy

1st Lt H Fueglein
1st Lt N F Ugland
Lt M V Fidals

Capt G W Cunningham
Lt J D Brooks

Capt M J Jarvis

1st Lt W W Greene
Capt E J Garllant
Capt C H Smallwood
1st Lt T B Wofford
Capt J F Leech

Capt D K Nickerson
1st Lt F Henry

Maj E Fitchter

1st Lt M W Doane
1st Lt T A Winkelfsecht
Capt A R Sphar
Capt J W Fleshman
1st Lt G L Thomas
Lt J C Mitchel

1st Lt J J Mc Watters

Lt P A Nesbitt

1st Lt C G Dansby
Capt RE Pike

Lt A L Stone

Lt Col R F Philpott
Capt K Baer
Capt R H Necel

--- Page 35 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

*SK/LK Ingolstadt
*SK/LK Freising
*LK Miesbach

*LK Traunstein
*LK Altotting

*LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen
*LK Erding

*LK Laufen

*LK Mihldorf

*LK Wasserburg
*LK Télz

*LK Aibling

*LK Farstenfeldbruck
*LK Landsberg

*LK Pfaffenhofen
*LK Starnberg

*LK Weilheim

*LK Wolfratshausen
*LK Berchtesgaden
*LK Ebersberg

*LK Aichach

*LK Schrobenhausen
*LK Dachau

*LK Schéngau

Co G, RB Schwaben
*SK/LK Augsburg
*SK/LK Kempten
*LK Dillingen
*LK Neu Ulm
*LK Sonthéfen
*LK Donauworth
*LK Ginzberg
*LK Markt Oberdort
*LK Memmingen
*LK Mindelheim
*LK Neuberg
*LK Nordlingen
*LK Fiissen
*LK Krumbach
*LK Illertissen
*LK Kaufbeuren
*LK Wertingen
*LK Friedberg
*LK Schwabmiinchen

Office of Mil Gov
(US) Sector Berlin)

Office of Mil Gov
for Bremen Enclave (US)

Wesermiinde Det

*Liaison and security

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern Cont'd

Ingolstadt
Freising
Mieshach
Traunstein
Altétting
Partenkirchen
Erding

Laufen
Miahldorf
Wasserburg
Bad Taélz
Aibling
Farstenfeldbruck
Landsberg
Pfaffenhofen
Starnberg
Weilheim
Wolfratshausen
Berchtesgaden
Ebersberg
Aichach
Schrobenhausen
Dachau
Schéngau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Augsbur;
‘Augsburg
Kempten
Dillingen
Weissenborn
Sonthofen
Donauwérth
Ginzberg
Markt Oberdorf
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Nérdlingen
Fiissen
Krumbach
Illertissen
Kaufbeuren
Wertingen
Friedberg
Schwabmiinchen

US SECTOR, BERLIN DISTRICT
(APO 755)
Berlin

BREMEN ENCLAVE
(APO 751)

Bremen

Wesermiinde

32

Capt W Laffe:

Maj EW Boney.
Capt W A Lovett
Maj CH Bischoff
Maj A H Wright
Maj M N Nitz

Maj C A Brown
Capt N W Borring
Capt W M Forys
Capt D Root

Capt W N Dickerson
Maj EJ Newmeyer
1st Lt H Klein
Capt M L Mott
Capt J E Thayer
Capt B B Simmons
Capt M J Groves
Maj P L Steers
Maj M Lawrence
Maj F Owen

1st Lt H J Thompson
Capt H J Bierman
Maj A G Snow

Maj G A Rein

Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Lt Col R S Wagner
Maj R J Paul

Capt J A Morris
Maj J E Rhea
Capt R Glass

1st Lt E A Eaton
Capt B M Green
1st Lt M W Toepser
Capt L A Troter
Capt E D Schank
Lt P W Thomson
Capt S D Lubin
1st Lt O H Sager
Capt J O Renalds
Capt D G Stevens
Lt P F Moskowitz
Capt D J Meran
Capt T B Creaves

Col F L Howley

Lt Col B C Welker
Lt Col LS Diggs

--- Page 36 ---
vega Ih

MMe HoF Hel
: nae pana
(sot S XM EGERN
I SCHAFFE! ee Saar
—~

t

LEGEND

RED REGIERUNGSBEZIRKE
BLACK —_LANDKRE!SE AND STADTKREISE

FUR!

ad

%

riissen

PARTEN-

UNITED STATES ZONE

Bavaria

rata cen” ao

a
robe) LE Cam deg
BAMBERG oes oy

ie
ao

OC, LHILPOL

GWEISSENY

AUSEN, BURG ~

pe

a 4
os Pea é Gere a ae 4

GaRMiscH-2°

KIRCHEN

ns
SS J UNSIEDEL,

ESCHENBAGH{ NEUSTAOT /—

ie oo 0 wsidey

-

STEN

~

WASSER-
\esers- BERG
et RG

STARN-|
ee
ae nN

re

re § TOL

10
mes a eee

5 AUSTRIA

Source OMe (Ba) pRancH

, GERMANY

VOHEN:

TRAUN-
STEW

CZECHOSLOVAKIA

masa

snore —

STATISTICS SECTION
‘SEC GEN STAFF USFET

--- Page 37 ---
