--- Page 2 ---
No. 44 — 3 JUNE 1946

Military Government

Weekly
information Bulletin

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT
FOR GERMANY, US
CONTROL .O FET CE
APO 742 U.S. ARMY

--- Page 3 ---
UNITED STATES ZONE, GERMANY
Greater Hesse, Wiirttemberg-Baden

HOFGEIS-
mar

ane

wacoeck (ana?

Kass
SEL PentZEN=

ie 4 SaauseN
PRA S SE nce
FRONKENBERG 5 RAPA yore

BRITISH ZONE

=y
) 2esen-
HAIN ( HERSFELO

Fe
RUSSIAN

ZONE

FRENCH

ad
IKUNZEL Si

ae
oumingeR IN CRAIL-

os Unsnei
“aor ?

a
tes ee 1.
SNORT TEMS RG

Sr wv ARLEN

LEGEND fe

———— REGIERUNGSBEZIRYE AND f
LANDESGEZIRK BADEN ‘6
———— LANOKREISE AND STADTKREISE ce

10
wes

TATISTICS SECTION

SOURCE OMG-R&! BRANCH C GEN STAFF USFET

Pett

--- Page 4 ---
No. 44 — 3 JUNE 1946

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT
FOR GERMANY, US
CONTROL OFFICE
APO 742 U.S. ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
Want A Vacation? See Page 16

“=

THIS WEEK

PAGE

A Send-Off for the Suggestion ray aH from The yew
Military Governor . . ay: Cees

Official Instructions . 4
HIGHEIGHTS “OF POLICY. 5
Laenderrat Tackles Food Distribution 5
Special Consideration for “Special” Germans . 7
Long Distance Telephone Service . 8
German Organizations Under the Third Reich . ene i,
MG Inaugurates Zone-Wide Suggestion Campaign. . 16
PGOENE RAD Ooo a 4 SOE Sree ei cee ee
Smokers, Drinkers Hit Ks Neb ee RAS Bo Cea.
Unblocking of UN Nationals’ Property . . . . . . 12
Refugee Emergency Housing. . . . . . . . . . 12
“Short ‘One Head San muman co sais en oO ae gs,
Deadly Weapons: Controlis "2. a8) ho as
Home: Gardens jis 2G 0 Berea i OU en
Free [Democratic Party 6 sae ls Le 0)
Bremen, Wiesbaden Clear Ruins. . . . . ... . 14
Army De-Requisitions Schools . . . . . . . . . 15
Meeting’ the Shortage): f/) Fi) Gyo acne a at
Over Fifteen Million Germans. . . . . . . . . 15
Personnel: Bulletins: 0 te a ore 4S
SwisstleavevG@enter iF ali wade EG Wiis Os 4S
Soldier Opinion Surveys <>. es. ia fe kgcsine ess da oe ih 20
New DP Identification Cards. . . . . .... . 20

US Stamps and Currency Control. . . . . . . . 20
Labor Advisory Committees. . . . ...... 20
GERMAN REACTIONS . 5 ere as os We.
Community Leaders Queried on Democracy na Politics 21
PRESSJAND RADIO; COMMENT Siu ue OA
Station /List) i127) pot eRe CA MARC TT ts ae

--- Page 6 ---
A Send-Off foc the Suggestion Campaign
beom The Deputy Mititacy Govecnocr’

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY (U.S.)
Office of the Commanding General

APO 742 29 May 1946
AG 322 (CG)
SUBJECT: Installation of an Employee Suggestion and Awards Program
TO : All Military and Civilian Personnel of OMGUS

1. At a recent discussion with the Military Governor, he approved whole heartedly
of the adoption of an Employee Suggestion Plan for all members of Military Government
in Germany as a part of a comprehensive plan which includes all Theater activities.
My staff in Berlin has prepared a plan which will give Military Government the benefit
of constructive ideas of every employee. Such a plan instituted in the War Department
in 1943 resulted in saving thousands of man hours and millions of dollars. More
important than these benefits, however, is the fact that the War Department is doing
a better job because of wider participation by its staff in executing the Department's
many and difficult missions.

2. The problems of Military Government in Germany are numerous and complex
and they aré important enough to command the best thinking of each of us.

3. Upon the recommendation of my staff, therefore, | have authorized the
immediate establishment of Employee Suggestions and Awards Committees in each of
the organizational areas of OMGUS; OMG (Rear); OMG (Bavaria); OMG (Greater
Hesse); OMG (Wuerttemberg-Baden); OMG (Bremen); and OMG (Berlin District).

4. It will be the responsibility of these committees to receive all constructive
suggestions from OMGUS employees that might facilitate the mission of Military
Government in Germany and award prizes to the originators of those it considers of
sufficient value.

5. Such suggestions may range from an idea for better interpreting democracy to
the Germans to a plan for more efficient handling of the mail. One of the most valuable
suggestions under the War Department program, for example, was contributed by a
messenger boy in Headquarters, ASF, for the handling of mail and message service.
It appeared at first to be a minor point, but it has saved thousands of man hours.

6. Each of you is invited to participate in this program. You may have the idea
that will improve the work of your office or headpuarters. Whatever it is, if it has
constructive value for any phase of our mission, we are interested in it. ‘

7. Specific directions for your participation in the Suggestion Program will be
issued in the 3 June Weekly Information Bulletin.

LPR, D. Clay

LUCIUS D. CLAY
Lieutenant General, U.S. Army
Commanding

--- Page 7 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Stabilization of Displaced Persons Population .
Indentification Symbols .

Reconsignment of Railway Cars .

Survey of Soldier Opinion .

Swiss Leave Processing Center .

Theater Safety Program

Excessive Purchase of Stamp Stock .

Disposal of WD AGO Form 822, ol Education Programm
Individual Record Cards . P

Turn-in Points for Ordnance Equipment .

Safeguarding Narcotics .

Promotion of Officers .

Community Dispensary Coverage and Hospitalization Plan

Disposition of Property upon Change of Station within
European Theater . c popooaoooo

Requests for Aerial Reconnaissance and Print Reproduction

Conduct of Searches by German Authorities in Connection
with Living United Nations Orphaned Children .

Check and Search Operations in United Nations
Displaced Persons Assembly Centers . Do

Unblocking of Property of United Nations
Nationals Residing in Germany .

Instructions to Public Safety Special Branches for Denazi-
fication under the “Law for Liberation from National
Socialism and Militarism."

AG 383.7 GEC-AGO
4 May 1946, USFET

. AG 200.2 AGX-AGO

6 May 1946, USFET

AG 531 GDS-AGO
6 May 1946, USFET

AG 330.11 GAP-AG
7 May 1946, USFET

. AG 210.711 SSP-AGO

9 May 1946, USFET

AG 729 PMG-AGO
9 May 1946, USFET

AG 311.14 AGM-AGO
10 May 1946, USFET

AG 313.6 INE-AGO
11 May 1946, USFET

AG 475 ORD-AGO
11 May 1946, USFET

AG 441 GDS-AGO
13 May 1946, USFET

AG 210.2 AGC
13 May 1946, USFET

AG 323.3 GDS-AGO
13 May 1946, USFET

AG 400.7 GDS-AGO
13 May 1946, USFET

AG 060 GBI-AGO
14 May 1946, USFET

AG 091.4 (CO)
14 May 1946, OMGUS

SOP No. 81
16 May 1946, USFEI

AG 386 (FD)
17 May 1946, OMGUS

AG 014.12 (IA)
17 May 1946, OMGUS

--- Page 8 ---
setting cusf@nt

rations Council

The cut in the rations @omes emttely

from the bread allowance Wihiehe@vill Bey

reduced from 6 to 4 kilogram@ifer a dour

weeks ration period. It is estitmmtadmenat, «

changes will reduce. the Ameridam Zotte
ration from 1275 calories per dagjoter
a normal consumer, to 1180 <dirine thé
next rationing period.

The move gives effect to thembaender-
rat proposal, made on 3 Maypet946 to
OMGUS, that such action be taken. At
that time OMGUS took no action on the
Council’s recommendations since it was
hoped that the present German ration
could be maintained. At the 7 May 1946
meeting of the Laenderrat, Deputy Mili-
tary Governor Lt. Gen. Lucius D. Clay
expressed the belief that the American

5 Zone might
maintain
its pre-
sent 1275
ration a
while lon-
ger by

the use of
bread sub-
stitutes.

But the

\

ie NE BNR No

Ne OO,
mittee reported that 2 review of
balances NN Oe

ab the same meruagwiie Deputy Mili-

tary Goyernor Gixe @hgPLaenderrat au-

iitetig to mak evits own decisions on prob-
lems ot German administration except
thos@\imvolwin= major policy or coming
under @uadripartite control. In establish-
hae tre 89th period rations, this new
authority is being exercised by the Laen-
derrat for the first time.

NO ALTERNATIVE TO CUT

The Ministers-President of the three
Laender, or States, in the American Zone
who compose Laenderrat, accepted the
findings of their Food and Agriculture
Committee that there was no alternative
to lowering the ration. Holding to the
1275 calory ration would mean facing
the danger of a more serious ration cut
later on, the committee reported.

The committee further felt that until
the world food situation improved to
such an extent that definite further com-
mitments for the last half of 1946 could
be made to Germany, the bread ration
would have to be based upon these
known available grain stocks. Any in-
crease above the 4 kilogram figure now
might mean far less or no bread during
the latter part of the critical period from
now until 30 September.

--- Page 9 ---
The extremely critical food situation
and the necessity for a further ration
cut was one of the main factors in the
Laenderrat’s decision to appoint a Com-
missioner for Food and Agriculture for
the American Zone. The new commision-
er, Hermann Robert Dietrich, who
held a similar post and was also later
Finance Minister under the Weimar Re-
public, assumed office 13 May 1946.

Although Dr. Dietrich was not appoint-
ied for some time after the original pro-
posal to cut the ration had been made by
the Laenderrat, he, too, felt that the
action was necessary to prevent the pos-
sibility of a more serious reduction later
on. In discussing the ration cut, the new
commissioner stressed that any improve-
ment in available food supplies which
may develop later will be passed on to
German cosumers through a supplemental
ration. !

LET'S FACE FACTS

“It is necessary to build the food-ra-
tion in the American Zone on the real
situation and to accept it with a definite
realization of the facts,” the Food and
Agriculture Commissioner stated.

“We hope that with the reduced ra-
tions we can bridge the gap to the new
harvest. Together with competent au-
thorities in the Laender we will take the
necessary measures to achieve that goal.
.... For the immediate present, however,
it is a matter of insuring against the pos-
sibility of a day when no bread would
be available.”

“We will combine the harsh measures
we are compelled to take and carry

through with another earnest appeal to
the farmers to come to the aid of the
hungry city people. The farmers should
make punctual and -.complete deliveries,
expecially .of butter and milk; should
take the greatest care to see that other
foods to be collected are delivered; that
home consumption and animal feeding
are reduced; that spoilage is fought and
the black market eliminated.

GREATEST CRISIS

“This is mecessary for us to overcome
the crisis in rationing that now faces us.
It is the greatest rationing crisis that we
have had to live through in the past
years.”

The ration cut became effective with
beginning of the 89th rationing period on
27 May 1946. The present bread ration
of kilograms per ration period of four
weeks will be cut to 4 kilograms.

This will be compensated for in part
by increasing the fat ration during the
89th period from 400 to 500 grams; hard
cheese from 250 to 312 grams and skim
milk from 4,000 to 5,000 grams, with
the increase in the latter food to be made
up in dried milk powder. In addition, the
new ration will provide 50 grams of dried
eggs weekly for the 10 to 18 year and
normal consumer groups. The ration for
quark (soft cheese), naehrmittel (cereals)
potatoes, meat, sugar, and pulses (dried
beans and peas) will remain the same.
The German ration in the American Zone
for ersatz coffee already has been cut
from 200 to 100 grams for the 89th
ration period.

--- Page 10 ---
Special Con

for
"Special"
Germans

The Military Governor orders preferential treatment in requisitioning to avoid
inconveniencing active anti-Nazis and Germans now aiding occupation.

Special consideration for Germans “who
during hostilities .... contributed to Al-
lied military operations by their active
resistance to the German war effort,”
and who during the occupation “have
aided materially in the accomplishment
of the occupational mission,’ has been
directed by Gen. McNarney.

The “consideration” is directed prim-
arily to instances wherein Germans may
be forced to move from their homes to
make room for military communities, dis-
placed persons centers, and other mili-
tary projects in the US Zone.

The directive, in the form of a letter
by General McNarney to his commanding
generals, follows:

“During the Nazi regime many persons
with anti-Nazi convictions took part in
activities designed to obstruct the carry-
ing out of the purposes of that regime.
During hostilities many of these same
people contributed to Allied military oper-
ations by their active resistance to the
German war effort. Such activities were
at a risk of their lives and property, and
in a number of cases, resulted in grave
suffering to the individuals concerned
and the members of their families.

“Since the beginning of the occupation
of Germany, many Germans have by their
cooperation with the United States For-
ces aided materially in the accomplish-

ment of the occupational mission. Such
persons are being depended upon to es-
tablish in Germany a goverment based
on democratic principles and ideals.

“Tt is my desire that these persons be
given preferential treatment over other
Germans in all situations where the needs
of the occupational forces require the
requisitioning of property for the estab-
lishment of military installations.

“Tn the establishment of military com-
munities, displaced persons centers, and
other military projects in the US Zone
of Germany, many Germans will be forced
to move from their homes and give
up their furniture and other household
effects. In selecting the sites for such
projects; every possible effort will be
made to avoid inconvenience to these
people who have been and are giving
full cooperation to the occupying forces.

“Where whole areas are taken, the
boundaries will be located to exclude,
so far as possible, the homes of such
persons. Where individual buildings are
requisitioned they will not be taken from
such persons where there are other suit-
able and available accommodations. Fur-
niture and household goods will in no
case be requisitioned from these sources.
In those cases where it is unavoidable to
dispossess such Germans they will be

(Continued on page 23)

--- Page 11 ---
ind the US Army
customers of the
recent return of
long distance telephone facilities to the
Senior Directorate of Communications
and Posts (See Weekly Information Bul-
letin No. 42, 20 May 46), practically
all telecommunications services have been
returned to civilian operation.

Prior to the occupation, overall super-
vision and control of long distance tele-
communications cables in Germany were
exercised by a division of the Reichspost
Ministry (Reichspostministerium) located
in Berlin. Under this division there were
several operating agencies charged with
the engineering, installation, operation and
maintenance of such long lines facilities
as were operated by the German Reichs-
post. Since the occupation, responsibility
for all these functions in the US Zone
has been vested in the Office of the Chief
Signal Officer, USFET; and the facilities
have been operated by the Theater Com-
munication Service from the control point
located in Wiesbaden.

In accord with MG policy of returning
communications services to civil opera-
tion, the long lines have now been turned

fEong Distance
lephone Service
‘ ed to Reichspost

New Senior Directorate Takes Over
Long Lines From Chief Signal Officer

over to the recently-established Senior
Directorate, which is responsible to the
Laenderrat (Council of Ministers Presi-
dent) for administration and operation of
all telecommunications and postal servic-
es in the Zone. Heading the Directorate
is Prof. Dr. Karl Hans Steidle of Mun-
ich, former Reichspost official premature-
ly retired by the Nazis in 1933 for polit-
ical reasons.

The actual operation, engineering and
maintenance of long lines will be the
function of Division II (Telecommunica-
tions) of the Senior Directorate headed
by Dr. Guenther Krawinkel, a former of-
ficial in the Research Division of the
Reichspost Ministry. These facilities in-
clude 31 repeater stations and associa-
ted equipment and 46 standard Reichspost
underground cables (Feldkabel) totaling
some 5,000 kilometers.

Certain switchboards and circuits in
various parts of the Zone are required
exclusively for military and MG pur-
poses. These, together with facilities
used in connection with US Army open
wire, radio and other US military instal-
lations, are exemted from Reichspost au-
thority and will remain under control
of the Chief Signal Officer.

--- Page 12 ---
The lethal efficiency of the Nazi Party
in eliminating areas of influence con-
trary to Party interests has been thor-
oughly demonstrated in the case of the
organization of the NSDAP, both as Party
proper and in its formations and affil-
iates. Less familiar to the average ob-
server of the Third Reich are the steps
taken by the Party to insure the permea-
tion of Nazi ideology through groups
ordinarily non-political in nature, lest
there should miraculously remain any as-
pect of German life which was free of
NSDAP control.

There was a multitude of such organi-
zations, supervised in varying degrees by
the Party but all dependent upon the
Party for their existence. They fall into
two general classifications — those ex-
pessly created by the Party as part of
its over-all pattern of domination, and
those in existence before 1933 and sub-
sequently altered to fit the Nazi mold.
This study deals principally with the
latter, lesser known group.

WOMEN’S ORGANIZATIONS

Until 1933 there existed in Germany a
number of different women’s secular or-
ganizations, such as the “Bund Deutscher
Frauenvereine,” as well as religious or-
ganizations — Protestant, Catholic and
Jewish Frauenbuender — which worked
for the aims of the women’s movement in
social welfare and related fields. Early
in 1933, however, the women’s organiza-

tions were liquidated and replaced by
the NSDAP-created “Deutsche Frauen-
werk” (DF), composed of all German
women willing to cooperate in the build-
ing of the new state. Only those women
could be members who, according to the
racial laws, were considered members
of the Greater German Reich. The aim of
the DF was to indoctrinate German wo-
men in Nazi racial doctrine and the need
of sacrificies by women for the Reich.
Out of the DF, which was supervised by
the NS Frauenschaft, came the Frauen-
schaft leaders, a group known as the
“Fuehrerinnen.”

FAMILY ASSOCIATION

The Weimar Constitution had decreed
that families with many children had a
right to receive help from the State,
particularly in taxation and housing, but
also in providing for pregnant women.
Families with four or more children were
represented both materially and ideologi-
cally by the “Reichsbund der Kinder-
reichen Deutschlands zum Schutze der
Familien.” This association was also dis-
banded and in its place, under the direct
supervision of the Racial Office of the
NSDAP, the Party created the “Reichs-
bund Deutsche Familie,” an organization
which had as its aim to insure “the
richness of children.” Membership was
limited to Aryan parents of at least four
healthy legitimate children. An unexpec-
tedly gallant concession was the admis-

--- Page 13 ---
sion of widows who met all other re-
quirements but had only three children.
This organization gave its members no
material aid; it was purely an ideological,
inspirational society.

LOCAL SPORT CLUBS

Prior to 1933 local sport groups and
associations were on a voluntary basis
and independent from the State. They
were changed to Nazi institutions shortly
after the Party’s accession to power, and
the new regime created the title of
“Reichssportfuehrer.” All individual sport
groups were united into the “Reichsbund
fuer Sport,” and it was made mandatory
for the individual member groups to add
training in National Socialistic ideas to
their sports activities. In 1938 the Reichs-
bund fuer Sport was set up in the same
manner as the Party, being subdivided
into seventeen Gaue corresponding tothe
Gaue of the NSDAP. In addition to sports
activities, the organizations were specifi-
cally instructed to train their members
in “racial history” and the “dramatic tra-
dition in history.” The Party made it
clear that an athlete was expected not
only to attain certain goals in the sport
of his choice and improve upon existing
records in that sport but also to syn-
chronize his character and “Weltenschau-
ung,” or world outlook, with the political
aims of the NSDAP.

HUNTING AND SHOOTING

Insofar as it did not concern profess-
ional foresters, hunting was merely a
private hobby in pre-Nazi days. Like
everything else in Germany, however, the
sport was “politically coordinated” and
became, in 1934, the “Deutsche Jae-
gerschaft,” a corporation under pub-
lic law comprised of all holders of
annual shooting licenses under the lead-
ership of Goering in his capacity as
Reichsjaegermeister. The task of this
organization was ‘to promote hunting skill,
protect game reserves and uphold
“sportsman’s honor.”

10

AIR RAID PROTECTION ORGANIZATIONS

Air protection leagues were created
about 1930 in various localities of Ger-
many to teach the populace the necessity
and techniques of air raid protection.
These leagues worked with the police,
who were officially charged with air raid
protection. Shortly after the Nazi acces-
sion to power in 1933, Goering dissolved
the local groups and created the Reich-
Air Raid Protection League, which con-
tinued the regular training and duties but
adopted a military character. The new
service came under the supervision of
the Air Ministry and was headed by
a full general.

COMMUNITY COOPERATIVES

National Socialism also took over the
communal societies of Germany for its
own purposes. Prior to 1933 the cities,
Kreise, and rural areas had over a long
period of time developed cooperative or-
ganizations which supported the prin-
ciple of municipal self-administration
guaranteed in the Weimar Constitution.
This principle was paid verbal tribute in
the municipal code of 30 January 1935,
but the practical effect of the code was
to make all German communities de-
pendent on Party and State. The city,
Kreis, and rural groups had already been
dissolved (December 1933) and replaced
by a central organization, the “Deutsche
Gemeindetag,” uniting 50,000 German
municipalities of varying sizes. The Ge-
meindetag was completely subject to Par-
ty and State, its activities governed, its
chief official appointed, and its board
and committee meetings assembled, en-
tirely at the discretion of the Minister of
the Interior for the Reich, thus effec-
tively smothering any thoughts of muni-
cipal independence. :

“COLONIAL THOUGHT”

After 1918 several large organizations
were formed to sell the German people
on the necessity of possessing colonies
abroad. In 1922 they were incorporated

--- Page 14 ---
into the “Kolonial Reichsarbeitsgemein-
schaft,” an organization whose philoso-
phy so well suited that of the NSDAP
that it was dissolved by the Party in
1936 and its component associations re-
grouped, by the now familiar process, as
the “Reichskolonialbund.” The centrali-
zation did not alter the purposes of the
“colonial thought” groups, already so sat-
isfactory to the Nazi political line, but
it did serve to strengthen the pursuit of
these aims.

CULTURAL ASSOCIATIONS

As would be expected, Germany al-
ways had scores of cultural unions and
societies with membershps made up of
professional and amateur writers, pub-
lishers, painters, musicans, etc., and pa-
trons of the arts. The independent di-
versity of these organizations was too
much for the NSDAP, and accordingly
they were unified in the fall of 1933 as
the Reich Chamber of Culture under the
Minister of Information and Propaganda.
The Chamber assumed responsibility for
national culture, regulated the economy
of the various artistic professons, and
imposed a common political pattern on
all cultural activities.

INTER-CULTURAL SOCIETIES

Under Nazi rule a number of long-
established German institutions for inter-
cultural relations, which had enjoyed
prestige both in Europe and abroad, be-
came little more than instruments for
National Socialist propaganda. An ex-
ample was the “Ibero-Amerikanische In-
stitut” founded in Hamburg in 1917 to
promote cultural relations between Ger-
many and the Latin-American countries.
Under the NSDAP this society deterior-
ated into an instrument for disseminating
Nazi propaganda in those countries. Simi-
lar examples were the “Osteuropa In-
stitut” and the “Amerika Institut,” both
connected with the University of Berlin
for a long time with purely cultural and
scientific aims, both under Nazi control

11

unable to escape the inevitable metamor-
phosis into one-sided National Socialist
propaganda societies.

EDUCATIONAL GROUPS

Some groups in Germany took their
philosophical cue from World War I
and thus considerably simplified the am-
algamation problem: of the NSDAP. An
example was the “Deutsche Fichtebund”
originally founded to fight “hostile propa-
ganda abroad.” Its principles being thor-
oughly acceptable to the Party, the Bund
was allowed to flourish unchallenged and
unchanged, providing a source of aca-
demic sanction for National Socialism.
Less fortunate was the State Academy
for Race and Health, which under an-
other name had been devoted to promot-
ing social hygiene. Under Nazi pressure
the Academy became a “medical” school
specializing in the racial doctrines of the
State.

STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS

In 1919 the student bodies of the var-
ious German universities had united as
a single, committee-governed German Stu-
dent Body which, as it developed, leaned
more and more decidedly to the right. It
was thus ripe for the post-1933 develop-
ment limiting its membership, according
to the Nazi pattern, to students of Ger-
man descent, and making a fetish of
speaking the mother tongue. From 1931
on, the leadership of this organization
was supplied entirely from the ranks of
the Nazi-sponsored Studentenbund (foun-
ded in 1926) which throughout the his-
tory of the Party remained its most pow-
erful academic adjunct.

FACULTY AND ALUMNI GROUPS

The faculties of German universities
were likewise thoroughly organized. Bas-
ic to this organization was the member-
ship of every teacher in a “Dozenten-
schaft” or academic lectureship, which in
turn was part of the Reichsdozenten-
schaft. The official Party organization of

(Continued on page 23)

--- Page 15 ---
Generat

Smokers, Drinkers Hit by New Taxes

Control Council laws unify revenue taxes on alcohol, matches, beer and tobacco

Three new tax laws of the Allied Con-
trol Council went into effect during May

placing uniform revenue levies on tobac: ~

co, alcohol, beer and matches throughout
the four occupation zones. With the pro-
perty and income tax laws enacted in
February, these will provide the bulk of

revenue income from German sources.

Law No. 27, tax on alcohol, provides a
2,000 per cent increase in the tax on
spirits for beverage, cosmetics and per-
fume purposes. The increase in levies on
alcohol used for medicinal purposes is
between 200 and 300 per cent. The law
does not place any new tax on industrial
alcohol.

The alcohol tax law is the same as has
been in effect in the Soviet Zone since
last fall. Although this has been a major
source of revenue in the Soviet Zone, it
is not expected to produce any important
return in the US Zone for the present
because no alcohol is being released for
beverage and luxury puposes.

In preparation for putting the levy into
effect on alcohol stocks in the US Zone,
all deliveries of alcohol in storage were
stopped and the stocks “frozen” until
complete reports are made on the supply
on hand.

The greatest revenue under these new
statutes is expected from the tax on beer
as provided in Law No. 28. The increase
from this source varies from 75 per cent
on the cheaper grades of beer to 125 per
cent on the more expensive. While no
beer is being produced now for domestic
consumption, there are still small taxable
stocks on hand in storage.

12

Law No. 28 also provides an increase
of one pfennig to ten pfennigs per 100
matches but this is not expected to have
any affect on the legal price of one
mark for 60 matches.

Law No. 26 provides for a graduated
scale of taxes on tobacco with the least
effect on the cheaper grades. The aver-
age increase was estimated by US taxa-
tion officials to amount to about 200 per
cent as compared with the previously
existing rate. Small tobacco growers with
less than 50 square meters under cultiva-
tion and not more than 15 bushels will

‘not be taxed. Unsold tobacco in com-

mercial storage will be subject to the
difference between the old and new levy.

Unblocking of UN Nationals’
Property

MG officers are directed to bring to
public notice a general license unblocking
property in Germany of United Nations
nationals now living in Germany which
has recently been approved by the Mili-
tary Governor. The property must origi-
nally have been blocked solely because
the owner belonged to a country overrun
by German or another enemy country,
as provided in MG Law 52. However, no
transaction prohibited by MG Law 53 on
the control of foreign exchange is affect-
ed by the general license.

Refugee Emergency Housing

Anticipating the needs caused by the
influx of increased numbers of refugees
in the American Zone of Occupation dur-
ing the spring and

coming summer

--- Page 16 ---
months, OMGUS has secured the re-
lease of approximately 700,000 canvas cots
and 27,000 tents from excess US Army
stocks. ,

These cots and tents will be used by
the German Ministers of Refugees to
establish emergency housing centers and
temporary receiving centers. The cost in-
volved has been established as a charge
against the proceeds of exports from
Germany, and as such the United States
should eventually receive dollars in pay-
ment.

OMGUS has also arranged on the same
basis for the release of 12,500 used Army
vehicles and 6,566 trailers, to relieve the
critical transportation problem in the US
Zone and the American Sector of Berlin.
Many of these vehicles have already been
released on a rental basis and are in use.
German transportation authorities are es-
tablishing large shops in order to repair
the vehicles. The trucks and trailers have
been classified as unserviceable but can
be made useable by cannibalizing and re-

pairing.

"Short One Head”

Ernst Luge, 51, thin, graying business
manager of the Greater Hessian Liberal
Democratic Party, has been found guilty
of making hostile, disrespectful state-
ments against the Allied Forces and sen-
tenced to five years in jail by a MG Gen-
eral Court in Frankfurt.

It was testified that Luge, who joined
the Liberal Democratic Party in Decem-
ber and quickly became a member of the
inner control circle, frequently warned
fellow party members that “people should
take motice of those who speak against
members of the NSDAP, for the time
may soon come when these people will
be short one head.”

Sonja Woelke, secretary in Frankfurt
Liberal Democratic Party Headquarters,
declared that Luge told party members,

13

“a mew war, a war between America
and Russia is coming and Germany will
fight on the Western Base Powers’ side.”

Luge was acquitted of two charges of
endangering Allied troops security and
of making statements urging Germans
to rebel. He pleaded “not guilty” to all
three counts. In making its finding, the
court told Luge that MG would not tole-
rate men making such statements and that
the only thing which had saved him from
a much stiffer sentence was the fact that
the remarks were made only before small
audiences.

Deadly Weapons Control

In a further effort to stamp out law-
lessness among the civilian population
in the US Zone of Occupation, General
Joseph T. McNarney, in a directive to
MG, ordered that the illegal possession
of firearms and other deadly weapons
by displaced persons, stateless persons
and individuals persecuted by the Nazi
regime will subject these individuals to
trial by intermediate or general MG
courts. The guilty will receive heavy sen-
tences. Convicted displaced persons, in
addition to severe penalties, are liable
to forced repatriation. The directive ap-
plies with equal force to persons of the
above categories who live outside of as-
sembly centers.

This new directive is in line with the
Theater-wide drive to bring under control
all illegally-owned firearms and other
deadly weapons. The German civilian po-
pulation has been subject to extremely
severe penalties for the illegal possession
of firearms and other deadly weapons
ever since the beginning of the Occupa-
tion. The program for the control of
firearms was virtually completed when
all US military and civilian personnel
were ordered to place non-organizational
firearms and such souvernirs as knives,
brass knuckles and similar items in their
possession in locked company storerooms.

--- Page 17 ---
Home Gardens

A recent survey by the OMGUS Food
and Agriculture Branch, disclosed that
1,700,000 families, approximating sixty
percent of all families in the US Zone,
have planted vegetable gardens this
spring.

This represents an increase of fifteen
percent over 1945. In Bavaria, Reichs-
bahn employees have planted 35,000 gar-
dens along railroad rights of way, and in
many cities, parks and playgrounds have
been planted with vegetables: Wheat
grows in sight of OMGUS Headquarters
in Berlin.

Dry weather in April and early May
caused some crop damage. At least nine
percent of the winter oil seed crop will
have to be replanted. To improve seed
production in the Zone, plant breeding
specialists are testing varieties of Amer-
ican seed on German soil.

Free Democratic Party

The “Free Democratic Party,” newly
licensed by OMG Bavaria, is described by
Intelligence officials as a “little left of
the Christian Social Union” and consist-
ing primarily of businessmen. Authoriza-
tion for the party, which is the fifth to be
licensed on a land-wide basis, was given
its Chairman, Dr. Eberhard Bungardz, a
Munich factory owner.

In their platform, the Free Democrats
announced support of “an independent
German Republic” based on secret ballot;
equal rights for all people; free enter-
prise, except in economic emergencies
when State management is advocated;
social insurance and old age pensions;
religious freedom; and an independent
court system. The party reports itself
against “separatism and separatist ten-
dencies in every form;” interference in
politics by the church; “reaction and
anarchy, militarism and every kind of
dictatorship.”

The party was constituted from five
political groups licensed on Kreis level,

14

known as the “Liberal Democratic Party.”
Other parties licensed to operate through-
out Bavaria are: Christian Social Union,
Social Democrats, Communists, and Ec-
onomic Reconstruction Party.

Bremen, Wiesbaden Clear Ruins

A drive to clear up the ruins of the
city is in progress in Bremen, with mem-
bers of the city council setting a lead
in the first organized effort to recon-
struct the town.

Burgermeister Kaiser and other civic
leaders enrolled for a week’s work in a
scheme which provides for every able-
bodied German man and women in the
city to do his bit by the target date of
next 31 October.

More than 50 per cent of the residen-
tial area is totally destroyed. The recon-
struction plan will not aim at rebuilding
these shattered dwellings but will be
limited to clearing away the wreckage on
main traffic routes through the city.

The labor office is directing the work
and mobilizing the labor, and a cerificate
signed by the President of the Senate is
presented to every citizen at the end of
his week’s work. The workers are cover-
ed for insurance against accident while
working in the ruins.

Center-of-the-city reconstruction has
begun in Wiesbaden with extensive de-
bris removal operations. A light railway,
trucks and four steam shovels are being
used to clear out 35,000 cubic feet of
rubbish daily which is taken to excava-
tions on Biebrich Hill.

A squad of 127 workers supervises fill-
ing of the rail cars and trucks and the
separation on the spot of useable iron,
wood and tile. These materials are allot-
ted for immediate repair of homes.

Debris removal equipment was brought
into the city by contractors from loca-
tions where it had been assembled by
former German army units. This equip-
ment includes engines, rails and rail cars.

--- Page 18 ---
Army De-Requisitions Schools

All primary and secondary schools
throughout the US Zone will be released
to MG for civilian use as soon as they
can be vacated by military personnel,
Third US Army headquarters announced.

An estimated 75 schools will be turned
back to the civilian population. Army
schools utilizing these buildings will be
moved to former German army and air
force technical schools.

The announcement also stated that Ger-
man army hospitals now under American
control will also be released by MG for
civilian use as quickly as possible.

Meeting the Shortage

German industries, faced with critical
shortages of raw materials, are turning
swords into plowshares through the util-
ization of certain types of German war
materials which the Army has permitted
them to use under careful scrutiny, ac-

cording to OMGUS.

The Wuerttembergische Metallwaren
Fabrik in Geislingen, near Stuttgart, made
88 mm shells during the war. Now they
are meeting the critical shortage of milk
cans by making them from the shell cases
they had on stock.

Salt shakers are being made from frag-
mentation hand grenades by a small firm
near Nurnberg, while, in the same vi-
cinity, another plant is making general
purpose containers from German gas
mask cannisters. Several plants through-
out the US Zone are making kitchen
utensils and cutlery from alloy aluminium
aircraft parts.

Contingent upon the release of suffi-
cient stocks of captured enemy war mater-
ial, an independent firm has stated it
will be able to make a minimum of eight
million nails monthly from rifle cartridges.
Army authorization for the use of

15

armor plate from captured and destroyed
German tanks, the steel to be used in
making plows, is expected shortly.

Over Fiffeen Million Germans

Latest available census figures show
a total of 15,431,000 German civilians
have permanent residence in the US Zone
of occupied Germany and the US Sector
of Berlin, OMGUS has announced. In
the US Zone, the population totals
14,497,000 Germans and in the Berlin
sector 934,000.

In addition, there were 490,000 dis-
placed persons, of whom 379,000 were
living in camps, 500,000 temporary resi-
dents or transients, and 75,000 enemy
detainees. The number of enemy detain-
ees was based on figures as of 15 March.

Plans are now being prepared for the
first post-war census to be taken in
October.

Personnel Bulletins

Three Personnel Bulletins which will
be of especial interest and assistance

- to MG field Personnel Officers have been

issued during May. They are:

“Technical Relationship of Field Civil-
ian Personnel Offices with the Personnel
Officer, OMGUS,” FC-1, 10 May 1946.

“Civilian Personnel Office Organization
in OMG Field Offices,’ FC-2, 13 May
1946.

“Organization and Functions of the
Civilian Personnel Branch of the Per-
sonnel Officer, OMGUS,” FC-3, 14 May
1946. :

Swiss Leave Center

The Swiss Leave Processing Center
at Mulhouse, France, will definitely con-
tinue in operation until further notice,
says USFET (AG 210.711 SSP-AGO, 9
May 1946).

--- Page 19 ---


--- Page 20 ---
-Wide

sir phe worked out any special bali
y~wlitch your own job has been im-
preved that would help people doing
similar work? Now is your chance to

~ for yourself.

MG is inaugurating a suggestion cam-
paign as part of a Theater-wide program
approved last week by Gen. McNarney.
The campaign is open to all US person-
nel, enlisted, civilian and officer, and to
all Allied and neutral personnel serving
with MG in the US Zone. A Central Sug-
gestion Committee is already open for
business at OMGUS, Berlin, and six local
committees have been set up, one each
in the three Laender, Berlin District, Bre-
men, and OMGUS (Rear). These com-

“ mittees want to see your suggestions for
" improving MG operations, functions and
ag channels.

Suggestions that show merit will be
passed on to the divisions or offices that
can do something about them. Either your
suggestions will be used, or the Com-
mittee will tell you why it can’t be used.
All ideas that are used will be recorded
in the personal files of the contributors.

The six local committees will award
prizes for suggestions which are applic-
able to MG operations in their areas. The
Central Committee in Berlin will award
prizes for ideas with Zone-wide applica-
7 bility and will review all suggestions
submitted in, the Zone. Even if your local
committee does not find sufficient merit

17

iggestion Campaign

ReFantent-Paid Leaves-and Furloughs, Cash Prizes, Valuable Merchandise
u erate Offered for Ideas Improving Military Government Operation

in your suggestion to warrant an award,
there is still a chance that the Berlin
group will find the idea worth putting
into operation and you will receive one
of the many prizes.

Contributors of prize-winning ideas
will be given valuable and worthwhile
awards including fifteen day furloughs
and leaves, cash prizes up to 250 dollars,
and radios and cameras. (Since military
and civilian personnel are governed by
separate regulations, their awards will
be different in form, but will have sub-
stantially the same value.)

HERE'S HOW IT'S DONE

If you have an idea, write it up in the
simplest and shortest way you can, but
with enough information to show clearly
what the problem is, and just what you
would do about it. Include any facts
which will help the committees to under-
stand the situation, as well as the rea-
sons for your suggestion if they are not
self-explanatory. Make your presentation
just as short as you can and still get
your point across. Here is an example
of a good suggestion and the way to
present it:

“Problem: Expellees shipped into the
US Zone from are bringing in
RM 1000 notes which are not recognized
as legal tender by US Military Gov-
ernment. They are unable to spend this
money, and therefore have to go on
public relief until they find jobs.
“Pertinent Facts: The Government of
provides each expellee coming
into Germany with RM 1000. While

--- Page 21 ---
enerally no question about the
foney.in smaller denomina-
are some kinds of RM 1000
h are not recognized by US
overnment, although they

in some areas not under

Limit the amount of money
pellee can bring into the
RM 990.”

HOW TO SEND IT IN

When you’ve got your idea worked
out, make four copies of it, like this:

From: Pfe Joseph Greenguard, 7189944,
Company C, 1674th QM Battalion, APO
659, US Army.

To: Suggestion Committee,
c/o MG for

Subject: Suggestion.

Send the original copy to your Local
Suggestion Committee; send two copies
directly to the OMGUS Central Sugges-
tion Committee, c/o Control Office,
OMGUS, APO 742. Keep the remaining
copy for yourself. If you are on duty
with MG in Bavaria you will send the
original copy to Suggestion Committee,
OMG, Bavaria, APO 170; in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden to Suggestion Committee,
OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden, APO 154; in
Greater Hesse to Suggestion Committee,
OMG Greater Hesse, APO 633; in Bremen
to Suggestion Committee, OMG, for Bre-
men Enclave (US), APO 751, in Berlin Dis-
trict to Suggestion Committee, OMG Ber-
lin District, APO 755. If you are assigned
to OMGUS (Rear) you will send the
original copy of your suggestion to Sug-
gestion Committee, OMGUS (Rear), APO
757.

S TO YOUR IDEA

mittee will go ,over
f it seems at all workable,
9 to the Division or Office
t it into operation. That

18

Division or Office will be required to
report back promptly to the Committee
the extent to which your idea is useable,
and what will or has been done about it.
In all cases, you will be notified of the
result. A list of all personnel whose ideas
have been used will be published in the
Weekly Information Bulletin.

While it is most likely that your sug-
gestions will be about the jobs done in
your own detachment, section or office,
you may submit an idea about any phase
of MG operations. If it has to do with
someone else’s work, however, take time
to make sure you have sufficient facts
about the activity involved. If you need

written up, ask a member
Suggestion Committee to
member though, the idea is Wis
not the manner in which i

CLASSIFICATION

Awards will be sq
the general value and
suggestion. For this p et
ing categories for suggeg
established:

Class I — Suggestions with high! po-
tential value, applicable to a large number
of persons and exhibiting exceptional
creative ability in conception and prepa-
ration, or suggestions which represent
an estimated annual saving of very large
amounts of money. Awards: For military
personnel a fifteen-day trip to any select-
ed point or area within the Theater with
all expenses paid and an item of mer-
chandise. For civilians 250 dollars
plus whatever additional awards may be
chosen from selected list of merchandise.

Class II — Suggestions affecting large
numbers of persons, and showing origi-
nality in conception and preparation, or
which represent an estimated annual sav-
ing of large amounts of money. Awards:
For military personnel a fifteen day trip
to any selected point or area within the

--- Page 22 ---
Theatre with all expehbes
item of merchandise. Fe
sonnel 250 dollars. '

Class II] — Suggesti¢ns/z t
a major organization elém 0
represent an estimated annual Savi
a substantial amount of money. Awards:
For military personnel a seven day trip
to any selected point or area within the
Theatre with all expenses paid, or an item
of merchandise. For civilian personnel
100 dollars.

Class IV — Suggestions which have a
broad applicability or great value, or
which represent an estimated annual sav-
ing of a limited amount of money.
Awards: For military personnel an item of
merchandise. For civilian personnel 25
dollars.

Class V — Suggestions with a limited
scope of applicability or which represent
an estimated annual saving of a small
amount of money. Awards: For both mili-
tary and civilian personnel a letter of
appreciation signed by the Deputy Mili-
tary Governor.

BY WAY OF EXPLANATION

Items of merchandise referred to as
awards will include practical gifts such
as cameras, watches, and radios with

‘

19

by the government.

When a civilian is informed of the cash
awarded for his suggestion, he will be
advised of his opportunity to purchase
an item of merchandise not to exceed the
cash award, or to avail himself of such
travel or tours as may be currently au-
thorized. These trips will be on duty
orders, the expense being borne by the
civilian. The basic cost of the trip will
not exceed the cash award.

A FEW DO'S AND DON'TS

The Suggestion Program is not another
“B-Bag.” Don't use the Suggestion Pro-
gram as a place for airing “gripes” or
personal grievances; they should be
taken up with your Personnel Office.
Don't submit ideas which are vague or
not related to the work of MG. Do sub-
mit any idea you have which looks like
a practical way of saving time, materials
or manpower for MG, or of getting re-
sults in our work.

--- Page 23 ---
General

Soldier Opinion Surveys

Just asking questions and adding up
the answers is not scientific polling of
public’ opinion. Unless precautions are
taken to secure a representative sample,
and the analysis of responses is made by
a trained and competent person, quite
false impressions may be created.

USFET instructs (AG 33.11 GAP-AGO,
7 May 1946) that polls of soldier opinion
are to be conducted only by agencies
authorized by the Theater Chief I and E
Officer, or by the War Department. None
may be undertaken at the initiative of
individual officers.

New DP Identification Cards

To stabilize the Displaced Persons po-
pulation in the US Zone new identity
cards have been issued to persons screen-
ed and approved as eligible for UN DP
care. The new card system will permit
control of movement of persons between
camps, govern acceptance of any new
registrants and secure an accurate reg-
istration of DPs now in the Zone.

As of 15 May 1946 all AEF DP Index
Cards are cancelled, and further issue
prohibited. DPs not screened as of this
date but whose applications are on file
with UNRRA will also be issued the cards.
These cards, however, do not authenticate
any claim of nationality or citizenship
status. Cards are being issued through
the UNRRA teams in the DP camps.

US Stamps and Currency Control

Don’t load up on US postage stamps
and expect to change them back into cash
when you hit the States. The Post Office
has reported such an increase in stamp
redemption among returning GIs that the
War Department now requests discour-
agement of stamp purchase as a means

of transmitting personal funds.
Accordingly, USFET instructs (AG 311.

20

14 AGM-AGO, 10 May 1946) postal of-
ficers to “report to commanding officers
for their information and necessary ac-
tion, all large purchases of stamps, call-
ing attention to the obvious intent to
circumvent currency regulations.”

Labor Advisory Committees

Establishment of Advisory Committees,
composed of representatives of workers,
employers and public bodies concerned,
to consult with and make recommenda-
tions to local and Land Labor Offices
was ordered recently by the Control
Council Coordinating Committee.

Issued to strenghten the principle of
democratic self-government through demo-
cratic advisory bodies, the order stressed
that the new committees shall function
in an advisory capacity only.

Advisory Committees shall be organ-
ized at the local level of the Labor Of-
fices and will advise these offices only
within their territorial competence. Ad-
visory Committees to advise the president
of each Land Labor Office, also ordered,
are to have no control over local advisory
committees.

Members of the local level committees
will be selected in equal numbers by the
president of the Land Labor Offices, in
consultation with the manager of the
local Labor Office, from lists submitted
by trade unions, representative employ-
ers and public bodies such as social in-
surance, relief and similar agencies. Land
level Advisory Committees shall be selec-
ted in the same manner by the Land
Labor Minister, in consultation with the
president of the Land Labor Office and
with MG approval.

Members will serve for one year and
may be reappointed. They will not be
paid except for reasonable out-of-pocket
expenses, including pay for loss of time.

--- Page 24 ---
German Reactions

Community Leaders Queried
on Democracy and Politics

While most German community leaders
have a grasp of political democracy which
is surprising in view of their intensive
indoctrination with authoritarian lines of
thinking, many of them have not yet be-
gun to think that democracy is more than
a political theory but a fundamental way
of life. This was the conclusion of a
recently completed OMGUS Information
Control public opinion survey.

The study was limited to 162 Germans
from all walks of life who were regarded
as leaders in their respective communi-
ties. They were selected, rather than a
sample of the whole population, because
it was believed they would be more
articulate than the “average” man, and
because, in their position of leadership,
they shape political and social attitudes
around them. However, the results were
considered broadly representative, since
those questioned were drawn from varied
professions in villages and cities of all
sizes in the US Zone.

OPPORTUNISTIC MOTIVES

“Although it was gratifying that com-
munity leaders wanted to take part in
political affairs,” the survey report said,
“an intensive probing of this attitude re-
vealed that it was often linked with op-
portunistic motives.” It added that a sur-
prising number of respondents implied
that political interest was obligatory if
national “honor” was to be regained. An
equal number spoke of democracy as a
bridge toward equality with other na-
tions. Nearly all commercially engaged
' persons who were interviewed implied

21

that by taking part in politics they would
further Germany’s economic recovery
and foster international trade relations.

REEDUCATION NOT HOPELESS

Information Control officers pointed
out, however, that no matter if the mo-
tives were opportunistic or were in them-
selves questionable in any other way, it
seemed encouraging that within less than
a year after the capitulation of Germany
leaders in community life, who were per-
haps exposed to National Socialism more
intensively than lower social groups,
could have any sort of understanding of
democratic principles. They also pointed
out that this survey, as do others of
similar character, does not show that
reeducation of Germans is a_ hopeless
task but rather that it is a difficult one
which can be solved by policies and
methods now established, and that there
exists in Germany a real nucleus of dem-
ocratic thinking which can be utilized
in the reeducation program.

The study also indicated that there is
a conflict in the minds of many Germans
between the desire to take part in poli-
ties and a reluctance to have any deal-
ings at all with political parties. For

example, a 64-year-old Regensburg busi-

ness man stated “I don’t want to have
anything to do with politics... a politi-
cian can fall from any height to any depth
... the man with an economic profession
stands on a solid basis ... a man who
busies himself with politics aside from
his profession is finished.” According to
information from sources other than this

--- Page 25 ---
survey, this conflict is sometimes resolv-
ed by choosing a “safe” party or by
supporting parties with vaguely worded
or non-partisan platforms, the report said.

DEMOCRACY DEFINED

“Tt is perhaps unreasonable to expect
meaningful and practical definitions of
democracy from a people that has had
relatively little experience in living de-
mocratically. Asked what they considered
to be fundamental in a democratic state,
most respondents answered briefly in
stereotyped phrases or with statements
suggestive of desired abstract principles,
the technical workings or real contents
of which did not appear to be very well
understood.”

Among the exceptions was a middle-
aged Ingolstadt writer who stated, “the
fundamental thing in the democratic state
is not the formal function of parties,
elections and representations but the
spirit enamating all of them. The Weimar
Republic provided all of these formal
democratic rights. It was ruined because
it lacked the right spirit.” The conception
of democracy as a formal rather than as
an organic matter was revealed also by
the widespread disposition to regard de-
mocracy as something that can be achiev-
ed by a certain date. References such as
“after two years, when democracy will
be established in Germany” or “by the
time the occupation ends, democracy will
be established in Germany” illustrate this
tendency.

Respondents were asked whether it
would be possible to establish in Ger-
many a democracy along the lines of the
western liberal democracies. Replies im-
plied considerable doubt that democracy
in Germany could follow their example.
Only about half of the respondents with
an opinion replied with a definite or
qualified “yes.” About one in five was so
uncertain that he could not give a defi-
nite answer at all; the rest of the group
replied with a definite or qualified “no.”
This feeling of doubt appeared to be

22

based predominantly on the fear there
would be too many parties “as before
1933.” The experiences of the Weimar
Republic, both because of political as-
sociations and memories of national post-
World War I sufferings have tended to
discredit the entire idea of democracy in
German minds.

However, the study also revealed a
widespread feeling that the Weimar con-
stitution was essentially workable and
that its failure was due to the inade-
quacy of the political leaders, the un-
scrupulous nature of the reactionary op-
position and the system of proportional
representation, which encouraged “splin-
ter-parties.” Among respondents who
thought that a democratic state along the
lines of western democracies could be
established in Germany, many felt that
the British model should be followed,
though with a president instead of a
king. A smaller number of people urged
the American or Swiss constitutions as
models for the future German state.

Almost unanimously the 162 respond-
ents approved of the MG policy of turn-
ing over more and more responsibility for
government to the Germans; but at the
same time there was an almost unani-
mous demand that Military Government
should retain, at least, the power of final
control and final decision. A consider-
able number expressed freely their skepti-
cism regarding German political matur-
ity and did not conceal their convictions
that military occupation is useful and
even necessary.

SELF-JUSTIFICATION

Respondents were also asked whether
the German people as a whole are res-
ponsible for the Nazi rise to power and
the establishment of a dictatorship, and
whether the German people could have
done anything to prevent these develop-
ments. The replies appeared to be pri-
marily attempts at self-justification rather
than honest analysis of missed oppor-
tunities. Ninety per cent concentrated on

--- Page 26 ---
the factors which, in their opinion, com-
pelled dictatorship and only one in 10
enumerated positive steps which could
have been taken to prevent it.
Respondents were also asked certain
hypothetical questions: “In your opin-
ion, is there any possibility that the Na-
zis or some similar group could emerge
and attempt to seize power? In case this
happened, how would it be possible to
prevent them from succeeding?” Nearly
all respondents felt that such an attempt
was out of the question while the oc-
cupation lasted. At the same time, how-

ever, most of these respondents felt that
scattered resistance movements were to
be expected. In order of frequency, the
following factors were ramed as favoring
a possible Nazi resurgence: (1) economic
difficulties and misery, (2) unjust and
harsh occupational policy, (3) nationalist
reaction, (4) admission of reactionary
parties and (5) problems created by
homeless refugees, and unemployed ex-
prisoners of war. Several respondents
urged that a strong central government
exist at the end of the occupation “to
prevent a reactionary coup.”

“SPECIAL” GERMANS
(Continued from page 7)
permitted and assisted to remove any
property they wish except fixtures and
household equipment which constitute an
essential part of the requisitioned build-
ing; for example, ranges and refrigerators.
“When it is essential that anti-Nazis
and other Germans referred to herein
be dispossessed, they will not be requir-
ed to move until other suitable accom-
modations are found for them and are
available for occupancy. Moreover, they
will be given as much notice as possible

prior to being required to vacate and in
no case less than four days after their
new accommodations are available to
them.

“In determining who are anti-Nazis and
cooperative, the agency locating a project
will consult with the Military Govern-
ment office of that region whose duty it
will be to report from records or imme-
diate investigation the status of the indiv-
iduals in question, Such findings will be
determinative of the ones entitled to pref-
erential treatment outlined in this direc-
tive.”

GERMAN ORGANIZATIONS
(Qontinued from page 11)
faculty members was the NS Dozenten-
bund, which as might have been expected,
was the moving force of political activ-
ity among the university teachers. Resist-
ance to Party domination of educational
groups seems to have been longest main-
tained by the alumni, or “Alte Herren.”
However, by 1938 pressure for centraliza-
tion became so strong that the Alte Her-
ren “voluntarily” liquidated their indi-
vidual associations and allowed their
membership to be taken over by the “NS
+ Studenten Kampfhilfe” or student combat
auxiliary, under the title of “NS Alt-

23

herrenbund der Deutschen Studenten.”
The purpose of the Bund was to educate
university alumni in National Socialist
doctrine to the end that those so indoc-
trinated would give financial and ideolog-
ical support to the all-important NS
Deutsche Studentenbund.

Thus the insidious pattern was repeat-
ed over and over: Independent and large-
ly innocuous organizations were adopted
by the Party, their activities rigidly con-
trolled, their policies perverted to fit the
dominant Nazi policy of getting an un-
breakable hold on the masses of the Ger-
man people.

--- Page 27 ---
(Dress and adioComments

WINANT SEES UNENDING TASK
FOR THE UN ECONOMIC COUNCIL

At his first public speech since his
return to the United States from London,
John G. Winant, US representative on
the United Nations Economic and Social
Council, said that the “Council’s task is
a continuous one” which “will never be
finished,” and that the “very substance
of peace itself” is the fact that “eco-
nomic and social advancement of all peo-
ples is limited by no horizon.”

He further said, “peace, if it is to be
real and lasting, means more than re-
solving conflicts between nations. It
means positive action to lift the levels
of human welfare, for a world divided
against itself cannot stand. Resentment
and fear are aroused in the hearts of
men by gross economic inequalities with-
in countries and between nations. Resent-
ment and fear easily grow into hatred,
and we have seen how quickly these
emotions can be played upon by the un-
scrupulous to make a people go to war
against their fellow men.

“The Economic and Social Council,”
he said, “has two main functions — to
coordinate activities of existing agencies
in its fields and to work for economic
and social advancement of peoples
through its own organs.”

Mr. Winant particularly stressed the
importance of the Commission of Human
Rights, of which Mrs. Eleanor Rosevelt
is chairman. Mrs. Roosevelt said that
international action in the basic field of
human rights is a new departure in his-
tory and that the question of human

24

rights was considered of such import-
ance by the framers of the Charter that
it was the only commission which the
Economic and Social Council was spe-
cifically directed to create.

Mr. Winant also said that to attain
its objectives, the “Economie and Social
Council has the power of making rec-
ommendations to the governments of
the world. This power to recommend, to
draw up draft treaties and conventions
for putting their recommendations into
effect, to focus the spotlight of world
opinion on violations of human rights ...
can be a very great power if rightly
used.”

Burial of War Dead

Plans for the return to the United
States of American war dead were an-
nounced by the War Department after
passage by Congress and signing by Presi-
dent Truman of a bill authorizing the
return and final burial of all personnel
of the armed forces who died overseas
since September 3, 1939. Approximately
328,000 dead were left overseas by the
US Forces.

Next of kin will be asked their desires
about final burial and will have four
options: 1) Remains may be interred in
a permanent American military cemetary
overseas; 2) Remains may be returned to
the United States for final interment in
a national cemetary; 3) Remains may be
returned for burial in a private cemetary |
in which case the United States Govern-

--- Page 28 ---
ment will pay the expenses of return and up
to 50 dollars for local interment; and 4)
Remains may be returned to a foreign
country homeland of the deceased for
interment in a private cemetary, depend-
ent upon ability of the United States
Government to obtain entry into the des-
ignated country.

The total cost of return and final
burial is estimated at between 195 and 215
million dollars, and Congress requires
that the task be completed within five
years. The Quartermaster General antici-
pated it can be done in a much shorter
time, despite delay in initiating returns
as a result of the inability of casket
manufacturers to supply caskets in July
1946, as originally planned, due to steel
shortage.

The plan includes civilians who died
overseas and who were serving with the
Army’s Red Cross and War Shipping
Administrations as well as newspaper cor-
respondents.

Positive Foreign Policy

United States Senator Arthur H. Van-
denberg, in a report to the Senate on the
recent meeting of the Council of Foreign
Ministers in Paris, said that the con-
ference had been a complete success in
disclosing a positive, bipartisan foreign
policy for the United States.

Senator Vandenberg said in part: “I
am happy to say that the American dele-
gation was a constant unit in thought
and action. It had no differences. Thus I
gladly associate myself with the dis-
tinguished Secretary’s report; and I com-
pliment him upon his able leadership
in this critically important enterprise...

“But, in my view, Mr. President, the
more important news is that the Council
was a complete success in developing, at
last, and in disclosing a positive, construc-
tive, peace-seeking, bipartisan foreign po-
licy for the United States. It is based,
at last, upon the moralities of the Atlan-
tic and the San Francisco charters. Yet
it is based equally upon the practical

25

necessities required for Europe’s reha-
bilitation ...”

Scrap Potsdam?

Commenting on Secretary of State Byr-
nes’ proposal for a Big Four 25-year
peace-enforcement program for Germany,
Sec. Henry Morgenthau in a broadcast
over a WMCA network expressed sus-
picion that it might be intended to scrap
Big Three agreements reached at Quebec,
Yalta and Potsdam on Germany’s future.

Boquet for Denazifiers

Louis P. Lochner comments in the
Newark News that:

“One Year after V-E Day, the Ameri-
can Occupation Zone in Germany easily
stands first in the thoroughness with
which denazification is being handled.

“The American attitude is best epito-
mized by statements by a young captain
in one of the interrogation teams:
“I would rather disqualify 10 Germans
who were not Nazis than let one Nazi
slip through.” While this may seem an
extreme statement, the first year bears
out the correctness of the assertion.”

ACA Plan Analyzed

Commenting on the voluminous plan
drawn up by the Allied Control Council
for the Paris peace meetings and re-
cently made public, Raymond Moley
writes in the New Haven Register:

“Five staff members of the influential
London Economist have analyzed the
plan in that publication. The sum of
their comment is that we shall have to
face some readjustment in our early
ideas of how to keep Germany helpless
in order to prevent her from becoming
an intolerable burden.

“British critics are convinced that the
plan cannot work efficiently. The Econo-
mist says that it ‘robs the future of
hope’ and that the despair it will in-
duce will bring a ‘crisis’ upon the occu-
pying British forces.

“The plan, it is said, grossly over-
estimates the capacity of a Germany

--- Page 29 ---
which has lost a quarter of its food-
producing land to make up the difference
in a brief three years. The effect of a
short food supply upon industrial pro-
ducers is not properly appraised. For
example, the production of coal in the
Ruhr was in January, one-eight of nor-
mal. It did not increase, but fell off, in
February and March, because the miners
were short of food.

“The Economist points out, further,
that the demands of France for a slice
of the Ruhr or the Saar would, if gran-
ted, throw even the mild prophecies of
the plan out of line.

“There seems to be a genuine concern
that economic distress in Germany may
ultimately result in riots and civil war.
For such a result, Britain, as well as the
United States, would pay a heavy price.”

Large Occupation

Alan Barth of the Washington Post
wonders whether:

“At the present stage of affairs, after
military government has been at work for
nearly a year, it is possible to ask
realistically if large scale occupation —
with all its monetary and moral cost —
is actually a necessity, as most people
assert, for many years to come. Could
Germany not soon be governed, as Italy
is governed, through an allied control com-
mission of civilians with a small, efficient
constabulary to enforce its orders?”

Europe’s Problem No. 1

In the opinion of Harold Callender of
The New York Times “It is one of
the diverting ironies of these not very
amusing times that Germany is on the
program of the Paris conference of
Foreign Ministers only after considerable
tussle and much backing and filling, and
that Germany is now the last item on
the agenda, coming after Italy, Rumania,
Bulgaria, Hungary and Finland. Yet Ger-
many is not problem No. 6 of Europe
but problem No. 1. Thus do diplomatic
documents falsify reality.

26

“This very reluctance to drag German
issues into even the officially filtered
light of day that penetrates into the
Luxembourg Palace testifies to the over-
whelming importance of Germany today —
an importance that has hardly diminished,
but has taken another form, since Ger-
many’s defeat...

“The great powers court her and study
her moods and political trends and bring
food from overseas, feed her and allot
coal for her industries and railways. Ger-
many is assuredly not a great power
any more, but she is a power of which
every Foreign Office takes account.”

Price Control vs Inflation

The Chicago Sun’s Edd Johnson opines
that: “All the traditional ingredients for
disastrous inflation are present and work-
ing at full strength in Germany today.
Price control is the reason that there
has been no disaster.

“Paradoxically, the inflation situation
is so acute that it tends to solve itself.
Except for rationed necessities, Germans
have virtually nothing to sell, so other
Germans have virtually nothing to buy.

“In the weird folklore of inflation, no
goods at all works about the same as
plenty of everything — so long as rigid
price controls are maintained.

This situation will change when goods
begin to become available. Then the se-
cond great deterrent to inflation will be
fully tested.”

See the Job Through

Paul Bellamy, editor-of the Cleveland
Plain Dealer and one of 14 American
editors and publishers who have comple-
ted a two weeks tour of the American
Occupation Zone in Germany, said today
he was “impressed by the job the army’s
doing — from the generals down to the
kids in the ranks.

“Pm going home and preach the gospel
that America, must see thru this job of
occupying Germany and complete our
commitments in Europe,” said Bellamy.

--- Page 30 ---
Station List

Military Government Elements

UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Joseph McNarney

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, US

Office of
Mil Gov for
Germany, US Berlin

Office of Mil Gov
for Warttemberg-
Baden Stuttgart

Hq 1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart

Ha & Sv Co let Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart

tet Mobile Maint Plat Zuffenhausen

Hq 1st MG Med Gp Stuttgart
Wirttemberg
E-1 Stuttgart
F-10 Stutteart
F-11 Ulm
G-20 Aalen
G-21 Béblingen
G-22 pees
G-23 Esslin;
iad Gat
G- Sppiny
G-26 Sclvwabsech Hall
G-27 Heidenheim
G29 Ladwigat
a LW] Vy
G-30 Waibepen®
H-50 Backnang
H-52 Kainzelsau
H-53 °  —Leonberg
H-54 Bad Mergentheim
H-55 Nartingen
H-56 Ohringen
H-58 Vaihingen

Landesbezirk North Baden

F-16 Mannheim

G-43 Heidelberg

G-46 Pforzheim

G-47 Karlsruhe

H-87 Bruchsal

H-89 Buchen

H-90 Mosbach

H-91 Tauberbischofsheim
H-92 Sinsheim

LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep)

(APO 154)

Wiarttemberg
SK Stutt, are
SK-LK
LK Aalen
LK Béblingen
LK oe
LK Eselin;
as fren
5 n

IK hen ppinge:
LK Heidenheim
Heilbronn

Ludwigeburg
LK Waiblinge:
LK Backnang
LK Kanzelsau
LK Leonber;
LK Mergen‘
LK Nartingen
LK Ohringen
LK Vaihingen

SK-LK Mannheim
SK-LK Heidelberg
SK-LK Pforzheim
SK-LK Karlsruhe

LK Bruchsal

LK Buchen

LK Mosbach

LK Tauberbischofsheim
LK Sinsheim

27

LtGen Lucius D Clay, Deputy
Military Governor

Maj Gen C L Adcock, Assistant
Deputy Military Governor

Col M O Edwards

He M O Edwards
Coot J P Clifford
t E G Thompson
a Gal Be eckjord

Col M O Edwards
Lt Col L Jackson
Capt R N Tharp
Capt R H Nation
1st Lt O P Johnson
Capt W R Danheiser
Cap t F A McDonald
tet. Lt J E Switzer
Capt R Kennedy

1st Lt H Putman
Maj B V Bloom
1st Lt P F Sullivan
1st Lt J Strauss

Cap 1 B Cress

Capt B Panettiere
Capt CE McGaffey
Capt W J Vallaza
Capt R Forrest
Maj S A Warren
1st Lt M Korson
1st Lt R E Alley

Maj M L Hoover

Lt ‘Col W T Burt

1st Lt N Semaschko

Maj W T Neel
fre tL L Goldman

Maj I A McGinness

1st Lt I C Maghran

1st Lt J Zecca

Capt H D Paterson

--- Page 31 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Office of Mil Gov:
for Land Greater Hesse
Wiesbaden

Hq 2d Mil Gov Bn ee eke
Hg Co 2d Mil Gov

Sv

2d MG Med G

H-87 US Ln Det Essen (Ruhr)
H-8
307 Hq (Westphalia Reg) Munster

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

E-5 Wiesbaden

E-6 Frankfurt

F-15 Wiesbaden

G-41 Wetzlar

H-77 Dillenburg

H-78 Gelnhausen

H-79 Hanau

H-80 Weilburg

H-81 Hofheim

H-83 Radesheim

H-86 _ Bad Homburg
Regierungsbezirk Kassel

E-4 Kassel

F-14 Kassel

G-38 Fritzlar
G-39 Marburg
G-40 Fulda
G-48 Korbach
H-65 Eschwege
H-67 Hersfeld

H-68 Hofgeismar

Regierungsbezirk Hessen
E-3 Darmstadt
F-12 Darmstadt
F-13 Ce
G-31 penheim
G-32 Badoeen
G-33 Dishats
G-34 Friedberg
G-35 Giessen
H-62 Lauterbach

“Liaison and security

p) Wiesbaden
"Co 2d Mil Gov Bn Sep) Oberursel

7
8  USLnDetSulzbach (Saar)

LAND GREATER HESSE

2d Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

RB Wiesbaden
SK Frankfurt
SK Wiesbaden
LK Wetzlar

LK Dillendurg & *LK Bicdenkopf

LK Gelnhausen &
*LK Schlachtern
SK-LK Hanau
*LK Limburg &
LK Oberlahn

LK Maintaunus

LK Rheingau & *LK Untertaunus

*LK Usingen &
LK Obertaunus

RB Kassel

SK-LK Kassel &
*LK Melsungen

LK Fritzlar-Homburg &
*LK Ziegenhain

SK-LK Marburg

SK-LK Fulda & *LK Hinfeld

LK Waldeck & *LK Frankenberg

LK Eschwege &
*LK Witzenhausen
LK Hersfeld &
*LK Rotenpurg
LK Hofgeismar &
*LK Wolfhagen

RB Hessen
SK-LK Darmstadt &
*LK Gross-Gerau
SK-LK Offenbach
LK Bergstrasse & *LK Erbach
LK Badingen
LK Dieburg
LK Friedberg &
*ICB Bad Nauheim
SK-LK Giessen
LK xauterbach & *LK Alsfeld

28

Col J R Newman

Col J R Newman
Capt HE York
Capt B A Sturdevan
May BH Kean

t G E Ska;
Ma W Condy ii
Lt Gol LJ Dockal

Col J R Newman
Col R K Phelps
Maj M E Chotas
Maj M Baymor
Capt G A Abood

Capt W F Johnson
Lt Col T Turner

Capt H L Edberg
Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hintz

Capt L F Jones

Lt Col A Skarry
Maj G C Sola

1st Lt W W Lechner

Maj R A Gish

Lt Col C F Russe

Capt H R Dichtenmueller

Maj R F Musgrove
Capt G S Iredell
Capt S B Borda

Lt Col W R Swarm

Capt N R Laird
Capt C H Carter
Maj L H Brown
Capt T A Norris
Capt J S Chapin

Maj R J Willard
Capt C H Lenneville
Capt H Nickelsberg

--- Page 32 ---
OFFICE OF 5 DIRECTOR OR
UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT COMMANDING OFFICER
LAND BAVARIA
Office of
Mil Gov for
Bavaria Munich Brig Gen W J Muller
3d Mil Gov Regt
(APO 170)
Hq 3d Mil Gov Regt Munich Col C C Morgan
Hq Co Munich Capt J W Preston
Sv Co Munich Capt L R Clark
3d MG Med Det Munich Col J B Pappas
Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken
Co A Wirzburg Maj I P Chestnut
E-202 Wiarzburg RB Mainfranken Maj I P Chestnut
F-210 Warzburg SK-LK Warzburg Maj M B Voorhees
G-221 Schweinfurt SK-LK Aschaffenburg Capt J R Hurst
G-202 = Aschaffenburg SK-LK Schweinfurt Maj G M Marsh
*A-250 Bad Kissingen LK Kissingen Capt M A Potter
*A-251 — Kitzingen LK Kitzingen Capt L A Mercadante
*A-330 Alzenau LK Alzenau Capt A T Neumann
*A-331 Briickenau LK Brackenau Capt Grodzinski
*A-332 Ebern LK Ebern 1st Lt G E Mair
*A-333  Gemiinden LK Geminden Capt J J Cotter
*A-334 Gerolzhofen LK Gerolzhofen 1st Lt G F Feehan
7*A-335 Hammelburg LK Hammelburg Capt K L Ellis
*A-336  _Hassfurt LK Hasefurt Capt R E Hellmig
*A-337 Hofheim LK Hofheim Capt F L Beelby
*A-338 — Karlstadt LK Karlstadt Capt W E Brayden
*A-339  Kénigshofen LK Kénigshofen Capt C Boden
*A-340 Lohr LK Lohr Capt EE Kelly
*A-341 Marktheidenfeld LK Markt Heidenfeld Capt Griffin
7*A-342 — Mellrichstadt LK Mellrichstadt 1st Lt L K Owens
*A-343 Miltenber; LK Miltenberg Capt O A Jenson
*A-344 Neustadt Saale LK Neustadt a. d. Saale Capt E F Warnke
*A-345 Obernburg LK Obernburg Capt J Bumic
*A-346  Ochsenfurt LK Ochsenfurt Capt L A Lowell
Regierungsbezirk Ober & Mittelfranken
Co B Ansbach Col E M Haight
E-203 Ansbach RB Ober and Mittelfranken Col E M Haight
F-211  — Narnberg SK-LK Narnberg Lt Col C Klise
G-222 Bamberg SK-LK Bamber, Lt Col J R Case
G-223 Bayreuth SK-LK Bayreuth Capt B F Stroup, Actg
G-224 Erlangen LK Erlangen Lt Col F M Guild
G-225, Coburg SK-LK Coburg Maj S Klein
G-227 Hof SK-LK Hof Maj H L Woodall
G-228 Ansbach SK-LK Ansbach Lt Col W R Whitaker
G-229 Firth SK-LK Farth Maj A C Abbott
*H-254 Kulmbach SK-LK Kulmbach Lt Col P B Lamson
*B-226 Kronach LK Kronach Capt J F Begley
*B-247 Lichtenfels LK Lichtenfels Maj F W Crimp
*B-252 § Ebermannstadt LK Ebermannstadt Maj R T Boyer
*B-253 Hochstadt LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch Maj F K Hinchey
*B-255 _—Pegnitz LK Pegnits Capt F J Stamatis
*B-256 = Munchberg LK Munchberg Maj H C Kauffman
*B-258 Rehau LK Rehau Capt W W Evans
*B-259 = Wunsiedel LK Wunsiedel Maj T Cleary
*B-260 Forcheim LK Forcheim Maj HW Zurn
*B-261 —_Dinkelsbahl LK Dinkelsbahl Capt J F Wyatt
B-262 —_ Eichstadt LK Eichstadt Capt R J Towle

“Liaison and security

--- Page 33 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

*B-263 Feuchtwangen
*B-264 Gunzenhausen
*B-265 Hersbruck
*B-266 Hilpoltstein
*B-267 Weissenburg
*B-268 Rothenburg
*B-269 Schwabach
*B-270 — Scheinfeld
*B-271 Windsheim
*B-272 Lauf .
*B-273 Neustadt a. d. Aisch
*B-347 Naila_
*B-348 Stadtsteinach’

LK Feuchtwangen
LK Gunzenhausen
LK Hersbruck
LK Hilpoltstein
LK Weissenburg
LK Rothenburg
LK Schwabach
LK Scheinfeld> '
LK Uffenheim
LK Lauk

LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch
LK Naila

LK Stadtsteinach

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern & Oberpfalz

Co D Regensburg
E-204 = Regensburg
F-212 Regensburg
G-230 Weiden

G-243 Passau

G-244 Amberg

G-245 Landshut

G-246 Straubing
*D-274 Cham
*D-275 Burglengenfeld
*D-276 Parsberg
*D-277 Tirschenreuth
*D-278 Neunburg
*D-279 Eschenbach
*D-301 Deggendorf
*D-302  Eggenfelden
*D-303 Grafenau
*D-304  Kelheim
*D-305 Landau
*D-306 Pfarrkirchen
*D-307 = Zweisel
*D-308 _—- Vilshofen
*D-309 Vilsiburg
*D-310  Wolfstein
*D-349 Kemnath
*D-350  Nabburg
*D-351 Oberviechtach
*D-352 Riedenberg
*D-353 Vohenstrauss
*D-354 Roding
*D-355 Waldminchen
*D-356 Beilngries
*D-357 Neumarkt

*D-358 Sulzbach-Rosenburg !

*D-375 Bogen
*D-377 Dingolfing
*D-278 Griesbach
*D-379 — Kotzting
*D-380 Mainburg
*D-381 Mallersdorf
*D-382 — Rottenburg
*D-383 Viechtach
*D-385 Wegscheid

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

CoE Munich
E-205 Munich
F-213 Munich
G-231 _Freising

*Liaison and security

RB Niederbayern & Oberpfalz
SK-LK. Regensburg

SK Weiden &

LK Neustadt a. d. Wald
SK-LK Passau

SK-LK Amberg

SK-LK Landshut

SK-LK Straubing

LK Cham

LK Burglengenfeld

LK Parsberg

LK Tirschenreuth

LK Neunburg vorm Wald
LK Eschenbach i. d. Opf.
LK Deggendorf

LK Eggenfelden

LK Grafenau

LK Kelheim

LK Landau a. d. Isar
LK Pfarrkirchen

LK Re;

LK Vilshofen

LK Vilsiburg

LK Wolfstein

LK Kemnath

LK Nabburg

LK Oberviechtach
LK Riedenberg
LK Vohenstrauss
LK Roding

LK Waldmfinchen
LK Beilngries
LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
LK Sulzbach-Rodenburg
LK Bogen

LK Dingolfing
LK Griesbach

LK Kétzting

LK Mainburg

LK Mallersdorf
LK Rottenburg
LK Viechtach

LK Wegscheid

RB Oberbayern
SK-LK Munich
SK-LK Freising

30

1st Lt D J Smith
Maj R J Nielsen

1st Lt L D Franklin
Capt R E Peters

1st Lt W C Williams
Maj J D Cofer ~
Maj R E Stringer
Capt G B Jones, Actg
Capt L C Wheeler
Maj E N Humphrey
Capt G B Jones

1st Lt D Wick

Capt H C Moore

“LtTol GD Hastings

Lt Col G D Hastings
Maj C G Doyle

Maj G J Ganer

Maj HL Snapp

Maj J C Robertson
Capt F M Schanbacker
Maj F T Brewster

1st Lt EA McNamara
ist Lt R W Crowley
1st Lt P J Piccola
Capt L R Mariels
Capt R G Miller

Capt R O Woodward
1st Lt H Cohen

Maj T R B Coykendall
1st Lt R Macwhorter
Capt G L Milner

1st Lt H Fueglein
1st Lt N Augland
Capt G W Cunningham
Capt M O Smith

Capt M J Jarvis

1st Lt W W Greene
Capt A Albert

Capt E J Gallant

Capt C H Smallwood
1st Lt T B Wofford
Capt J F Leech

Capt D K Nickerson
1st Lt F Henry

Maj E Fitchter

1st Lt M W Doane
Capt A J Dann

Capt A R Sphar

Capt J W Fleshman
1st Lt G L Thomas

Lt J C Mitchell

1st Lt J J McWatters
Lt P A Nesbitt

1st Lt CG Dansby
Capt RE Pike

Lt AL Stone

Lt Col J W Hensel
Lt Col J W Hensel
Lt Col E Keller
Maj EW Boney

--- Page 34 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

G-235 Rosenheim
G-237 Ingolstadt
*E-232 Miesbach
*E-233 Traunstein
*E-234 Altéttin;
*E-236 Partenkirchen
*E-280 Erding
*E-281 Laufen
*E-282 Mahldorf
*E-283 Wasserburg
*E-284 Bad Talz
*E-285 Aibling
*E-286 Farstenfeldbruck
*E-287 Landsberg
*E-288 Pfaffenhofen
*E-289 Starnberg
*E-290 Weilheim
*E-291 Wolfratshausen
*E-311 Berchtesgaden
*E-361 Ebersber;
*E-364 Schrobenhausen
*E-362 Aichach
*E-367 Dachau
*E-368 Schéngau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Co G Augsburg
E-206 Augsburg
F-214 Augsburg

*G-242 Kempten
*G-239 Dillingen
*G-240 Weissenborn
*G-241 Sonthofen
*G-292 Donauwérth
*G-293 Ganzber;

*G-294 Markt Oberdorf

*G-295 Memmingen
*G-296 Mindelheim
*G-297 Neuberg
*G-298 Nordlingen
*G-299 Fassen

*G-300 Krumbach
*G-369 Illertissen
*G-370 Kaufbeuren
*G-372 Wertingen

*G-373 Friedberg
*G-374 Schwabmiinchen

Office of

Mil Gov

(US Sector

Berlin) Berlin

Office of Mil Gov
for Bremen Enclave (US) Bremen

Wesermiinde Det ‘Weserminde

*Liaison and security

SK-LK Rosenheim
SK-LK Ingolstadt
LK Miesbach

LK Traunstein

LK Altéttin

LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen
LK Erding

LK Laufen

LK Mahldorf

LK Wasserburg
LK Télz

LK Aibling

LK Farstenfeldbrick
LK Landsberg

LK Pfaffenhofen
LK Starnberg

LK Weilheim

LK Wolfratshausen
LK Berchtesgaden
LK Ebersberg

LK Aichach

LK Schrobenhausen
LK Dachau

LK Schéngau

RB Schwaben
SK-LK Augsburg
SK-LK Kempten
LK Dillingen

LK Neu

LK Sonthofen

LK Donauwérth
LK Ginzber

LK Markt Oberdorf
LK Memmingen
LK Mindelheim

LK Neuberg a. d. Donau
LK Nordlingen

LK Fassen

LK Krumbach

LK Illertiseen

LK Kaufbeuren

LK Wertingen

LK Friedberg

LK Schwabminchen

US SECTOR, BERLIN DISTRICT

US Sector, Berlin District
(APO 755)

BREMEN ENCLAVE
(APO 751)

SK Bremen
SK Weserminde

31

Capt R H Necel
Maj MN Nitz

Capt W A Lovett
Maj C H Bischoff
Maj AH Wright
Maj F L Tracy

Maj C A Brown
Capt N W Borring
Capt W M Forys
Capt D Root

Capt W N Dickerson
Maj E J Newmeyer
Capt J J McBri
Capt M L Mott
Capt J E Thayer
Capt B B Simmons
Capt M J Groves
Maj P L Steers
Maj M Mawrence
1st Lt C C Smith
Maj H T Hesson
Capt H J Bierman
Maj A G Snow
Capt EL Bark

Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Lt Col RS Wagner
Maj R J Paul

Capt J A Morris
Maj J E Rhea
Capt R Glass

Capt J S Woodward
Capt B M Green
1st Lt M W Toesser
Capt L A Troter
Capt E D Schanck
Lt P W Thomson
Capt 8 D Lubin
Cist Lt O H Sager
Capt J O Renalds
Capt D G Stevens
Lt P F Moskowitz
Capt D J Moran
Capt T B Creaves

Col F L Howley

Lt Col B C Welker
Lt Col L S Diggs

--- Page 35 ---
