--- Page 2 ---
No. 41 — 13 MAY 1946

Militazsy Govermmens

Weekly
information Basilfletizs

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT
FOR GERMANY, US
CONTROL OFFICE
APO 742 U.S. ARMY

--- Page 3 ---
UNITED STATES ZONE, GERMANY

Greater Hesse, Wiirttemberg-Baden

HOFGEIS-

< BRITISH ZONE

FRANKENGERG “Ueartzvae
cone :
Tans ROTENBURG

Pee
maddéone TIESEN: x,
: 2 Hain ( HERSFELD

RUSSIAN

ZONE

q

FRENCH

ARLEN

LEGEND
poe
—— REGIERUNGSBEZIRYE AND ¥
LANDESBEZIRK BADEN covrnsde }
HEIDEN
At, SHE
——— _LANDKREISE AND STADTKREISE ‘ ww a

s ZONE

f
{ 10 S50 10
A wILes aE Se J

TATISTICS SECTION
C GEN STAFF USFET

SOURCE OMG-RG! BRANCH

--- Page 4 ---
No. 41 — 13 MAY 1946

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT
FOR GERMANY, US
CONTROL OFFICE
APO 742 U.S. ARMY

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
THIS WEEK

Official Instructions .

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY
Germany Learns of Her War Dead .
“Swords into Plowshares”

Germans Will Restitute Nazi Victims .

GENERAL
Germany's Foreign Trade Extended .
Pforzheim Looks Ahead .
Another “Verboten” Repealed .
Movement of German’ Employees .
Internment Camps for Nazis .
Denazification Boards

"Registration Deadline Extended .

GERMAN REACTIONS .

“Work To Eat’ Order Meets German Approval .° -

The Specter of Inflation

PRESS COMMENTS
Editorials
Columns .

Radio

Station List .

PAGE

12

13
13
14
14
14
14
14
14

16
16
18
20
20

21
22

23

--- Page 7 ---
OFFICIAL LETTERS AND INSTRUCTIONS

Travel Into and Out of Germany .

Examination and Vaccination of Pets and Mascots
Prior to Shipment to the US .

Procurement in Czechoslavakia .

Approval of Forms 6GA .

Payment of Civil Service Pensions .

Public Opinion . Surveys ..

Removal to Central Archival Depot of Archives,
Books and Other Library Material .

AG 210.482 GBI-AGO
5 April 1946

AG 720 GDS-AGO
22 April 1946

AG 400.12 GDS-AGO
23 April 1946

AG 400.12 GDS-AGO
23 April 1946

. AG 014.1 (1A)

25 April 1946

AG 350.09 (D1)
29 April 1946

. AG 007 (ED)

1 May 1946

--- Page 8 ---
MG Agency Notifies 9,000 Next-Of-Kin Daily from Former Wehrmacht
Personnel Files. Captured Records Enable Analysis of the Rise and Fall. of
Luftwaffe and Wehrmacht. Collection Widely Used by Inter-Allied Agencies.

A year ago doughboys of the 87th
Infantry Division of the First US Army
were closing in on Saalfeld, Thuringia.
When the city was finally captured on
12 April 1945, “Operation Goldcup” was
initiated. Saalfeld had been not only a
military objective but the known location
of an extremely valuable prize — the files
of the German Armed Forces Information
Bureau for Prisoners of War and War
Casualties — and this was one of the
targets of “Operation Goldcup.” At first
the significance of the capture was not
fully appreciated. But today, more than
a year later, the records have been thor-
oughly examined and their crucial im-
portance established beyond all doubt.

The captured agency contained about
17,000,000 individual card files on men
who had passed through the Wehrmacht,
including the Luftwaffe, from 1939 to
1945. Valuable as was this information, it
‘was surpassed by an even greater find:
Complete rosters of troop units of the
Army and Air Force in the form of
identification lists, including vital statis-
tics. It does mot require too vivid an
imagination to guess what the possession
of such documents could mean in the
hands of a vengeful reconstituted Ger-
man General Staff, bent upon the rebirth
of a military machine which could once

again threaten the peace of Europe and
of the world.

Since one of the aims of the Potsdam
Agreement is the complete demilitari-
zation of Germany — guaranteeing that
she will never again be in a position
to constitute a threat to her neighbors
— it is very fortunate that these records
of the former German Armed Forces
are now in Allied possession, and it is
imperative that they remain there. The
US Department of Justice and Allied
Counter Intelligence agencies have evi-
idenced interest in this wealth of data,
for it contains the names of members
of Wehrmacht intelligence units. Of partic-
ular interest are men who had managed
to worm their way into the US Army in
pursuit of espionage activities for the
fatherland.

It is characteristic of democracy that
the work of casualty notification inter-
rupted at the time of surrender, is today
resumed. This work is now being ac-
complished under a new name, under
entirely new management and for only
one purpose: To notify near relatives
of the death of fallen members of the

“former Wehrmacht. Now known as “The

German Agency for the Notification of
War Deaths in the Former German Ar-
med Forces to Next of Kin,” it is func-

--- Page 9 ---
tioning directly under US military super-
vision — specifically, under the Armed
Forces Division, OMGUS — by virtue of
authorization from the Allied Control
Authority (ACA). Three American offi-
cers are in charge of over 650 German
civilian clerical personnel (mostly wo-
men) who are engaged in the gigantic
task of mailing out over 1,000,000 death
notices to next of kin of deceased for-
mer Wehrmacht personnel and of register-
ing the deaths with the local German
registry offices. Both British and French
liaison, officers are assigned to assist in
extracting information for their respec-
tive governments. Although dispatching
of death notices is at present the only
task which the ACA.has permitted the
agency to perform, it is a staggering one.

NOTICE PROCESSING STEPPED UP

The present organization works very
differently from ‘its German predecessor.
The Germans sent out about 8,000 death
notices monthly, while today an average
of over 9,000 daily are dispatched. A
target date of 1 June 1946 has been set
for the completion of the mission, and,
the future’ of the agency beyond that date
has not yet been determined .

Two reasons are suggested for the dis-
parity in speed of operation. First, the
Germans employed a very cumbersome
system of casualty recording and notifi-
cation which involved an_ inordinate
amount of “red tape.” Secondly, there
was probably a deliberate attempt to
conceal casualty figures from the public,
and the number of death notifications ac-
tually sent was intentionally kept small.
This assumption is fortified by the fact
that from 1941 through 1943: thousands
of death notices were not dispatched,
though casualty records were kept.

At the time of capture, over 20,000
death notifications, completely stamped
and ready to be mailed, were awaiting
dispatch. They represented about two
and one-half month’s preparatory work,
and the break-down of mail service re-

sulting from the deterioration of the Ger-
man military position had made it im-
possible to mail them. But even so, the
casualty records of the agency
throughout the time it was operated by
the Germans were never kept up to date.

The officers in charge showed a complete

lack of interest and never made personal
inspections to see how, or even whether,
it was functioning.

Originally established in Berlin in 1939
as part of the German Central Admini-
station Office of the Wehrmacht, it was
the counterpart of ‘our own Adjutant
General Casualty Records Section. Four
years later in 1943, doubtless as a result
of the stepped-up bombing campaign
against Berlin, it was moved to Saalfeld,
in Thuringia, where it was captured. In
addition to the main headquarters in
Saalfeld, a small sub-section was
established at Meiningen, also in Thurin-
gia. The Meiningen section handled only
graves registrations and records of Allied
prisoners of war in German hands.

“ The main work of the organization
consisted of compiling statistics on all
German Armed Forces casualties (except
Naval) and dispatching death certificates
to the registry offices of the last resi-
dence of the deceased; keeping records
on hospitalization of German Armed For-
ces personnel (except Naval); recording
data on all German Armed Forces per-
sonnel captured by Allied armies except
the Soviet; keeping records on graves
registrations of all Allied and German
personnel buried by German agencies;
receiving and forwarding personal effects
of all. Allied and German dead and
administering last wills and testaments;
keeping extensive card indexes of all
personnel in the German Armed Forces
who had been killed, wounded, captured,
missing or hospitalized; maintaining data
on identification numbers, full name, date
and place of birth, home address and
next of kin; and finally, recording infor-
mation on all Allied prisoners of war in
German hands. Information concerning

--- Page 10 ---
Allied prisoners in German hands was
extracted and transmitted to the Allied
governments through the International
Red Cross at Geneva, Switzerland.

When the agency was captured an
Allied Commission was dispatched to
Meiningen, charged with completing the
records and~ extracting and removing
those concerning United States, British
Commonwealth, French, Dutch, Belgian,
Luxembourg and Norwegian prisoners of
war. Another Allied Control Commission
took over the headquarters at Saalfeld
and both Commissions immediately set
ta work screening personnel and apprais-
ing the documents now in their hands.

Of the almost 1,100 German civilian
clerical help (mostly women) at Saal-
feld, surprisingly few were found to have
belonged to the Nazi Party, but those
who had joined prior to May 1, 1937,
and those whose husbands or near rela-
tives held offices in any German organi-
zation, or those who could in any manner
be considered security threats, were dis-
charged. Approximately 400 were thus
let go.

COMPLETE MOBILIZATION RECORDS

The screening of the documents at Saal-
feld revealed about 17,000,000 individual
card files on men who had passed
through the Wehrmacht between 1939
and 1945. From a study of graphs found
in the files it was possible to reconstruct
the strength of the German Armed Forces
at any given period. It is interesting
to note in this connection that the peak
strength of the Wehrmacht was reached
in December, 19438, when it numbered
10,983,000. men. Also uncovered was the
Identification File mentioned previously,
containing lists of names of personnel of
all German Army and Air Force units
mobilized during the war, from which an
“Order of Battle” was extracted by the
Allied Commission. It is this set of rec-
ords which is being considered for de-
struction when they have served the pur-
pose of the Allies, for it is from this

data that a future Wehrmacht could, be
recruited.

ON TO BERLIN

Another prize of great value was discov-
ered: Lists of names of personnel of
German intelligance units, sabotage units,
secret field police and training units.
This set of records has already been used
by Allied Counter - Intelligence, the U-
nited States. Department of Justice and
many other agencies, including the Inter-
national War Crimes Commission.

In the latter part of June 1945, three
months after the capture, the work of
screening personnel, examining docu-
ments and extracting intelligence data
from the files was suspended to permit
the organization to make its. second
move, this time to Fuerstenhagen near
Kassel. Some 500 tons of documents were
packed and moved and 365 personnel
were retained for continuing the work of
the agency in its new location. At Fuer-
stenhagen new documents consisting of
1,000,000 records of dead and prisoners
of war were received from the Interna-
tional Red Cross at Geneva and records
from the Abwicklungsstab of the German
Army, the staff whose duties were to
determine the fate of the individuals
whose units were destroyed in combat.
These files, obtained from the Third US
Army area: in- Bavaria, consisted of a
million interrogation reports concerning
individuals and two million’ file cards
relating to members of destroyed units.
Because of the pressure of work in examin-
ing, sorting, and bringing the extensive
files up to date it was impossible to
dispatch any death notices from Fuer-
stenhagen. | ,

The redeployment of US Forces from
the Fuerstenhagen area during the fall of
1945 was the signal for the agency to
make its third and final move. This time
it returned to Berlin. It took two months
—from 15 December 1945 to 16 February
1946 — for the movement to. be
completed and the agency.to be:returned

--- Page 11 ---
to operation. Only 56 of the employees
who had been at work in Fuerstenhagen
were brought to Berlin, and about 600
more were hired locally. All the em-
ployees have been vetted by the Public

Safety Branches of the US, British or

French, respectively. The files are now
located in barracks formerly occupied by
Berlin Police Guards, next to Tempelhof
Airport. Administratively the agency is
part of the Ministerial Collecting Center.

The first actual notification of death
by the new agency was made on
15 February 1946. On the first day 20
notices were mailed. With the hiring and
training of additional help the number of
completed notices increased’ by leaps and
bounds. By the end’ of February, 611
notices had been sent out. By the end of
March a total of 9,000 notices represen-
ted an average day’s work. To the end of
April about 386,000 notifications have
been made; but the task of mailing out
the more than 600,000 remaining is an
appaling one — and the work is schedu-
led to be completed by June 1.

NO FLOWERY STATEMENTS

The official notification which is sent
out today differs vastly from the flowery
mass of verbiage which the Germans em-
ployed to tell the next of kin about the
son, father, brother, etc. who:had fallen
“gallantly defending the fatherland.” Now
a simply worded declaration tells the
essential facts: The name of the indi-
vidual, the date and place of birth, date
and place of death, whether the indivi-
dual died, was killed, committed suicide
or was executed, the location of the grave
and, finally, the registry office to which
the official death notification has been
mailed. Unfortunately, in many instances
all of this information is not available.
Many of these notices are being returned
to the dispatching agency because of
misinformation in the German records:
Incorrect addresses, incorrect spelling of
names, and the lack of a forwarding

address. Often, too, the home to which
the card was mailed had been destroyed.
Whatever the reason, about 200 notices
are returned daily because of non-deliv-
ery.

Word soon spread among the civilian
population that information concerning
the fate of missing kinsmen in the for-
mer Wehrmacht was being made avail-
able by the Americans. Immediately in-
dividual requests began to pour in from
Germans in Germany 4nd in the rest of
Europe. Many pathetic letters were re-
ceived from Austria, Poland, Czechoslo-
vakia, France, England and Denmark. At
present close to 5,000 individual requests
are received daily. Unfortunately the bulk
of them cannot be. honored because it
would seriously hamper the work of
mailing out the great mass of cards
in the process of preparation. And yet
the anxiety expressed in them is under-
standable. In many cases widows of
fallen German soldiers write in and wish
to be notified officially of the demise
so that they can re-marry. These cases
are completed, if possible. But the overall
task of dispatching notifications is re-
garded as being more important in the
long run than furnishing information to
individuals who have already learned
officially the fate of their kin.

FACTUAL RECORDS AVAILABLE

From records maintained in Berlin to-
day one may learn any or all of the
following facts relating to the Wehr-
macht:

Name of members of the German Army
and Air Force units at a given period
during the time the unit was organized.

The names of Allied nationals serving
with the German Armed Forces (except
Naval).

Home address and next of kin of per-
sons wanted for war crimes.

Information of legal value to German
courts for property settlements, marri-
ages, insurance, etc.

(Continued on page 11)

--- Page 12 ---
German industrial level set by Control Council to eliminate war potential. Agri-
culture and peaceful pursuits to be encouraged. No living standard guarantees.

We were twenty five years late in
learning the lesson of modern warfare.
It was a costly lesson. Basically it is a
simple one: The ability of a country to
wage war depends not only upon the
number of its citizens in uniform but also
upon the industrial capacity of the na-
tion.

When the leaders of the three great
powers met at Potsdam, they were de-
termined that Germany should not retain
the means to wage modern war. Rather
than have German factories build loco-
motives for France or Holland, and keep
within its borders the industrial capacity
for producing the weapons of war, they
would give the iron and steel plants to
the Allied nations as reparations. Less
efficient? Perhaps, but very much safer.

The Potsdam Conference left the devel-
opment of the Reparations Plan to be
worked out by the Allied Control Council
on the basis of these guiding principles:

Elimination of the German war poten-
tial and disarmament of Germany indus-
trially. \

Payment of reparations to the countries
which had suffered from German aggres-
sion.

Development of agriculture and the
peaceful industries, leaving Germany with
sufficient resources to maintain a stand-
ard of living no higher than the continen-

tal European average, excluding the
USSR and the UK.

It was not easy to translate the broad
principles of Potsdam into concrete terms.
Each of the three nations represented at
Potsdam had its own interpretation of
the: agreement. And France, which was
not represented at Potsdam and therefore
not bound by its principles, was admitted
as an equal partner in the months of con-
ferences and decisions. Point by point,
industry by industry, the level of post-
war German economy was established.
All four of the occupying powers were
united in desiring the industrial disarma-
ment of Germany. Through cooperation
and compromise, agreement was achieved.
Full accord had not been reached by 2
February, the deadline set at Potsdam.
It was not until 26 March, after months
of discussion, sometimes lasting all
through the night, that the final plan
was released to the world.

The over-all level of German industry
will be cut to almost half of what it was

in 1938. The additional capacity is to be

removed as reparations.

That does not mean that every industry
is to be cut an even 50 percent. Fourteen
industries with a high war potential, in-
cluding synthetic gasoline, ball bearings,
primary aluminium and synthetic rubber
are ultimately to be eliminated comple-
tely.

--- Page 13 ---
Other industries, essential to war, but
also essential to a peacetime economy,
have been drastically reduced. Steel is
cut to a third of 1936 production; the
capacity of the basic chemical industries
will be 40 percent of 1936. Machine tool
production jand heavy engineering capa-
city will be even more severely cut. The
automobile industry will be allowed to
produce no more than 40,000 light trucks
and the same number of passenger cars.
Compare this with 245,000 passenger cars
produced in 1936.

PEACE TIME. INDUSTRIES REMAIN

To balance the loss of the heavy in-
dustries and to provide exports to pay
for the necessary imports of food and
raw materials, certain industries will be
allowed to retain their present capacity
and to expand within the limits of Ger-
many’s resources. These industries are
those which have no war potential such
as funiture and woodwork, glassware,
ceramics and the building construction
industries (excluding cement). The coal
mines will be allowed to operate to
capacity, for it is from the sale of coal
to the countries of Europe that Germany
will receive most of the foreign credits
needed to pay for imports.

Agriculture is to be maximized, but
with nearly a quarter of Germany’s ar-
able land ceded to Poland, it is impos-
sible today and it never was possible in
the past to make Germany completely
self-sufficient.

In reaching an agreement, the Allied
Control Council proceeded on three as-
sumptions: (1) By 1949, the target year
‘of the plan, the population of Germany
will be 66 and a half million; (2) Ger-
many will be treated as a single econ-
omic unit; and finally (3) Exports from
Germany will be acceptable in the in-
ternational markets. If these assumptions
are not realized, the plan will have to be
revised.

The level of industry blueprint has
been criticized as being too drastic. It

10

has been claimed that large scale unem-
ployment will be unavoidable. However,
MG emphasizes that the plan does not
guarantee Germany any specific standard
‘of living. It merely leaves within the
German borders sufficient industrial
capacity so that with ingenuity and hard
work, the Germans may develop a toler-
able economy.

It must be remembered that achieve-
ment of the permitted industrial produc-
tion level will not be an easy task. In-
dustries in Germany today are operating
at only a fraction of capacity. While
steel capacity has been severely cut, the
current rate of production does not come
near the permitted tonnage. If the Ger-
mans succeed in overcoming their many
obstacles they should be able to achieve
‘a standard of living about a third lower
than they enjoyed in pre-war years, when
their standard was 30 percent above that
of the rest of Europe. In some fields,
such as housing, it will take twenty
years to rebuild their country. For many
years there will be shortages of consumer
goods. However, although a diet of 2700
calories, 10 percent below pre-war levels,
based mainly on bread and potatoes, is
poor compared with Germany’s pre-war
standard, it would look mighty good to
the German civilian today.

WAR PLANTS TO BE DESTROYED

What of the plants declared in excess
of the German level of industry? First,
the bombproof and underground war
plants will be blown up. Moveable gen-
eral purpose equipment will be used for
reparations but nothing will be left which
could be used for another war. Recently,
demolition was begun on the huge ex-
plosives plant at Allendorf, a subsidiary
of the I.G. Farben cartel.

Other plants are being crated and ship-
ped to the Allied nations. During April,
the Deschimag shipyards, near Bremen,
began to be loaded on a Soviet freighter.
They will be rebuilt at Odessa in the
USSR.

--- Page 14 ---
As of 1 May, 661 industrial plants had
been declared available for reparations
from the three Western zones of Ger-
many. Approximately two-thirds of the
plants were from the heavily industrial-
ized British Zone.

That is the blueprint for Germany as
it stands today. Its principles are those
of Potsdam. Security first, reparations

second is the theme. The Peace Con-
ference this spring at Paris will have the
final say on the future economy of Ger-
many. It will be up to this peace con-
ference to devise long range controls for
Germany. With the lessons of the past
thirty years to guide them, they will
once more attempt to eliminate Germany
as a breeder of wars.

(Continued from page 8)

Information desired by the Internation-
al Red Cross on missing persons
throughout Europe.

Statistical data on war casualties in
the former German Armed Forces.

Information concerning types and
causes of wounds suffered by casualties.

Many organizations are today availing
themselves of the wealth of data avail-
able in Berlin, to satisfy all sorts of pur-
poses. To mention only a few: Allied In-
telligence Agencies; Internal Affairs and
Communications Divisions (British, US,
and French); Central Tracing Policy
Board; US War Department; British War
Office; International War Crimes Com-
mission; Legal Division (British and US)
and the International Red Cross, Geneva.

Since knowledge of this agency is now
fairly widespread, additional information
can be expected to find its way to the
files in Berlin. For example, casualty
records collected by the British Forces
in Hamburg, Flensburg and Denmark,

totaling between 250,000 and 300,000
death records, arrived in Berlin on 29
April 1946. In addition, death notices re-
ceived from Allied military sources, re-
cords from German sources such as ceme-

tary authorities and local administrative

officials, sworn statements by former
German Armed Forces personnel and ad-
ditional data from the International Red
Cross in Geneva will all be used to sup-
plement records now only partially com-
plete.

A great percentage of this new mater-
ial are in the form of indentification tags
with no names given. In order to identify
unknown dead, the tags must be passed
through the department, containing the
Identification Files, a most cumbersome
process where even a trained worker can
complete only 20 items per day. When all
this work is completed, it will give a
truer picture than was. available, of how
the Wehrmacht was literally bled white
during its six years of conquest and
defeat.

11

--- Page 15 ---
Germans Will Restitute Nazi Victims

Property stolen by the Nazis will be returned to
their owners by the German Land Governments.

Control of MG-held property will soon
pass to the German Land Governments
and they will become responsible for
restitution to
Nazi victims un-
der an interim
custodial pro-
gram set forthin
recent OMGUS
instructions to
the Laenderrat. By 15 May details for
carrying out these responsibilities are to
be presented by the “Council of States”
for OMGUS approval; by July the pro-
gram may be in effect.

Specific classes of property which MG
desires to transfer to the custody of the
Germans include properties owned or
controlled, directly or indirectly, by the
following; The German Reich; govern-
ments, nationals or residents of other
nations which were at war with any
of the United Nations after 1 Sep-
tember 1939: the Nazi Party and its
affiliates; organizations prohibited or dis-
solved by MG; and property which was
the subject of transfer under duress or
wrongful acts of confiscation, disposi-
tion or spoliation. The plan will not
cover the Reichsbahn, PT and T the
Reichsbank, German external assets cov-
ered by Control Council Law No. 5,
installations now in use by occupation
forces, and foreign exchange assets tur-
ned in under MG Law No. 53.

WORKS OF ART INCLUDED

Provision for interim custody of works
of art and cultural objects which MG

12

declares not subject to external restitu-
tion will be included in the Laenderrat
plan. MG desires to turn over such items
to Land custody not later than 30 June,
with the understanding that they be re-
turned if found subject to external resti-
tution, inter-zonal transfer or restitution
within Germany.

DISPOSED, NAZI PROPERTY

The Laenderrat is also instructed to
develop by 1 June a plan for final dis-
position of Reich-owned property, Nazi
Party and affiliates’ property, and that
of Nazis, militarists and war profiteers
confiscated under the Law for Liberation
from National Socialism and Militarism.
All categories of property except for-
eign exchange assets are to be included.

Concerning awards to Nazi victims,
the Laenderrat is instructed “... to in-
stitute immediate measures for the
prompt restitution of property which has
been the subject of transfer under duress
or wrongful acts of confiscation, disposi-
tion or spoliation, whether purusant to
legislation or by procedure purporting to
follow forms of law or otherwise. The
plan should consider the use of existing
judicial machinery and the possibility
of using specially constituted tribunals,
and should also provide for the rights
of such innocent third parties as may be
involved. Initially, MG is concerned with
restitution to individuals.

Consideration will also be given to
restitution to organizations. However, the
former will not await a decision on the

(Continued on page 15)

--- Page 16 ---
General

Germany's Foreign Trade Extended

Another step in the resumption of Ger-
many’s foreign trade has been taken with
the conclusion of export and import
agreements between OMGUS and foreign
countries and UNRRA. (See Weekly In-
formation Bulletin No. 36,
8 April 1946).

The agreements call for
the exportation from Ger-
many of commodities having
a total value of 383,116 dol-
lars and the importation of
commodities valued at
1,280,820 dollars. The imports were ar-
ranged to help bolster the agricultural
potentiality of the US Zone in the face
of the world-wide food pinch. The ex-
ports, representing surplus commodities
in the American Zone, will help defray
the mounting cost of importing food into
the Zone.

While the exports, which are being
shipped from both wartime and post-war
stock, are a trickle of the Zone’s former
output for foreign consumption, they in-
dicate that the Zone is assuming greater
responsibility in self-sustenance, thus re-
ducing MG’s burden.

The export items include 25,000 bi-
cycle wheel sprockets, valued at 68,000 RM
consigned to Denmark. Material for
sprockets has already been allocated and
production to fill the order will begin
this month, with shipment scheduled tent-
atively for sometime in June. Other ex-
port items, including hops, fertilizer salt,
electric carbons for trucks and motors,
portable type grinders for moving ma-
chines, freon gas and methyl chloride are
already available and will be shipped
as soon as they can be packed and trans-
portation is available.

13

The commodities to be imported are
all of an agricultural nature. The largest
single item, in terms of money, is an
order for 3,000 tons of Italian hemp
fiber, valued at 731,700 dollars. The ship-
ment has already begun and
is expected to be completed
by May 15. It has been con-
signed to Fuessen, Bavaria,
where it will be made into
binder twine for agricultur-
al crops.

Seven hundred and fifty
tons of seed potatoes will be imported
from Czechoslovakia. This shipment was
consigned to the Baywa Farmers Co-
operative in Regensburg, Bavaria, which
will distribute them to some fifteen seed
growers. The seed they produce will in
turn be sold to farmers throughout the
US Zone for the growing of eating pot-
atoes.

From Sweden 5,500 tons of .sulphate
pulp, valued at 434,500 dollars, has been,
purchased for manufacturing paper. First
priority use for the paper is paper binder
‘twine; second, paper bags for food pro-
duction, and third paper bags for cement.
The paper will be widely distributed
among the three Laender.

An order also has been placed with
Sweden for the importation of 500 tons
of arsenic. It will be used in the manu~
facture of insecticide for spraying potato
crops, and will be processed at factories
in Hoechst and Darmstadt, in Greater
Hesse.

Austria has agreed to ship 414 tons
of graphite, to the American Zone not
later than 15 June for the manufacture
of nitrogen fertilizer and for various
metallurgical uses.

--- Page 17 ---
Pforzheim Looks Ahead

German, city planners in Pforzheim
have placed on exhibit paintings, detail-
ed charts anid plans showing how they
hope to reconstruct their shattered city,
which was eighty-five per cent destroyed
during the war. The city, located be-
‘tween Karlsruhe and Stuttgart, niow has
a population, of 49,000 as contrasted with
80,000 before the war.

Another “Verboten” Repealed

After a ten-year prohibition, Germans
may again consult such communityrec-
ords as the matrimonial, commercial and
land transaction registries in the opera-
tion of their businesses or personal affairs.
The new Control Council Law No.
24 repeals a Nazi edict iof 30 September
1936 which forbade inspection of all jud-
icial public books and records.

Movement of German
Employees

When, units, detachments ior individ-
uals change station in Germany, they
may not move with them any German
ior foreign national employees other than
necessary male mess attendants, accord-
ing to an OMGUS letter (AG 014.12 CS).
MG seeks to avoid making the existing
hlousing shortage ‘in Germany more acute
by the unnecessary shifting of the civi-
lian population even in small numbers.

Internment Camps for Nazis

A former DP prison at Meisach witha
capacity of 800 persons has been turned
lover to German authorities by OMG
Bavaria for internment of Nazis sentenc-
ed by decision boards under the new
German Denazification La-w.

In addition the Bavarian Ministry has
requested MG to make available to them
camps scattered all over Bavaria for the
imprisonment of an expected 100,000
Class I (Major Offenders) and Class II

14

(Offenders) Nazis. (See Weekly Infor-
mation Bulletin No 32, 9 March 1946).
Largest internment camps are projected
for locations near cities, to provide a
large labior supply for clearance of rubble
and reconstruction work. Camps to house
1000 persons each, are planned for Mun-
ich, and Nuremberg, and camps with a
capacity for 5,000 each, at Augsburg and
Wuerzburg. Other camps will be set up
in the Land as Nazis become available
and labor demands require them.

Denazification Boards

Enactment ‘of the Law for Liberation
from National Socialism and Militarism
will materially reduce the functions of
the Denazification Review Board and reg-
ional denazification review boards. These
boards will be liquidated about 1 June
1946, or as soon as may be practicable,
OMGUS has announced. No new cases
will be sent to them after 15 May.

Cases previously handled by the de-
nazificatijon boards will be processed un-
der German, law and shiould be forward-
ed for action to thie Minister for Political
Liberation. Cases involving persons hold-
ing essential policy-making, executive or
iother leading positions for which no re-
placements are available in the German
Reichsbahn will not be affected by this
turnover of authority.

Registration Deadline Extended

The deadline for registration by civil-
ians over eighteen years old under the
Law for the Liberation from National
Socialism and Militarism has been ex-
tended in Bavaria to 25 May, due to the
unavailability of paper for the printing
iof the questionnaires. The forms have
since been printed and distribution be-
gun. Greater Hesse and Wuerttemberg-
Baden, complcted registration on 28 April.

Both deadlines conform to termination
dates of civilian rationing periods, tic

--- Page 18 ---
88th ration, period ending 28 April and
the 89th on 25 May. To ensure a more
complete response, civilans may obtain
new ration cards only by showing stam-
ped receipts as evidence of compliance
with the registration requirements of the
new denazification law. Furthermore,
new or continued employment is not
permitted after 15 May unless the reg-
istration receipt is produced to the em-
ployer.

Preliminary estimates indicate that ap-
proximately 12,000,000 persons in the
three Laender will be registered. Figures
are not available to show the number or
percentage of persons who have regis-
tered so far, and itis likely that some time
may pass after the deadline before totals
from each of the registration offices scat-

tered throughout the American Zone can
be consolidated into a Zonewide total.
The new denazification law requires
registration by all civilians who were
iover 18 when the law became effective
ion 5 March 1946, who live, work or own
property in the American Zone. Exempt
from registering are members of Allied
forces, nationals of United Nations serv-
ing with the US Forces, and foreigners
and stateless persons under the care of
UNRRA for the duration of such care.
While MG realizes that some persons
whio would be subject to prosecution
under thle mew law will seek to avoid
registering by fleeing from thle American
Zone, thie law provides for the absentee
prosecution of defendants, and the taking
iof their property into protective custody.

(Continued from page 12)
latter, which presents more complex pro-
blems.

“In ‘addition to the foregoing, there
will be many instances where specific
restitution will not adequately indemnify
a person for losses suffered as a result
of Nazi activity. In order to meet this
situation it is requested that considera-
tion be given to a program for the partial
satisfication of claims by an interim a-
ward for the economic rehabilitation of
those destitute as a result of Nazi per-
secution. The award should be an em-

ergency measure only, and without pre-
judice to possible further recovery. A
limit should be placed upon the amount
which one is permitted to recover. It
may be assumed that sufficient of the
property confiscated under the laws men-
tioned above will be- made available to
the Laender to enable them to make the
necessary awards. Any plan recommend-
ed should consider the use of existing
judicial machinery in the several Laender
and thie desirability of using specially
constituted tribunals for the purpose.”

15

--- Page 19 ---
German Reactions

“WORK TO EAT” ORDER
MEETS GERMAN APPROVAL

“Register for work if you want to
eat,” is a policy which has evoked wide
approval from American Zone Germans.
They feel, generally, that compulsory
registration will further the much-desired
reconstruction of Germany. Restrictions
‘on the movement of workers from jobs
met with slightly less approbation during
a recent OMGUS Information Control
test of public reactions to Control Coun-
cil Order No. 3.

This Order, issued by the Allied Con-
trol Council toward the end of January,
requires all persons of employable age
to register at their local Labor Offices
either for work or for release from work
before a food ration card will be issued.
The order also provides that labor can
be supplied to employers only through
the Labor Office; individuals..are no
longer permitted to find employment on
‘their own initiative. In addition, workers
may not transfer from one place of work
to another without the permission of the
Labor Office.

Favorable reaction to Order No. 8 is
also partly due to the feeling that there
alre many persons capable of work who
alre avoiding it because they do not like
types of employment which are available.
A number of related questions were also
asked to probe workers’ satisfaction with
their present jobs and to discover the
reasons why employable persons are not
working.

Most persons who are employed are
satisfied with their jobs. While most
of the non-employed explain their status
ion the grounds that they are housewives

16

or physically incapable of working, a
considerable minority of the unemployed
state either that they are denazified per-
sons removed for political undesirability,
or that they are unable to find any desir-
able work.

Three-quarters of those interviewed
say they had heard that it was necessary
to register at the local Labor Service.
At the same time, nearly half of those
who heard of the order can not remem-
ber what the penalty (withdrawel of food
card) was for non-compliance.

A large majority of the whole popula-
tion (87 percent) think the law praise-
worthy. In addition to its basic willing-
ness to accept authority, the German
public has grown accustomed during the
last thirteen years to rigid control of
labor and employment conditions. Ad-
ditional reasons for this favorable ac-
ceptance of the registration requirement
are brought out by the survey. Most
people (70 percent) think that there are
many people in Germany today who
though capable of working are idle be-
cause they do not like the jobs which are
available. The public, it is clear, favors
measures designed to put these people to
work. Besides, there is the general feel-
ing that such compulsory measures will
aid the reconstruction of Germany.

Although a solid majority (62 percent)
‘of the public also approve the restric-
tions on labor mobility contained in the
order, this figure is considerably lower
than the 87 percent who approve of
compulsory registration. Opponents of
the measure constitute about a fourth of

--- Page 20 ---
the population. Some of them (12 per-
cent) point out that the practice is un-
democratic insofar as it restricts individ-
ual freedom. Others (7 percent) maintain
that freedom of choice of job is neces-
sary to the worker if he is to find the
work most suitable to his talents. A few
spoke of the plow which this provision
‘offers to the incentive of workers who
“will not be able to better themselves.”
When put in terms of aiding the recon-
struction of Germany, however, disap-
proval of this part of Order No. 3 was
considerably reduced. The principal rea-
sons given by those who favor this meas-
ure are that the Labor Offices need this
authority in order to ensure proper al-

location of workers (30 percent), and.

that this measure allows the over-all job
to be carried out in an orderly manner
(18 percent).

ATTITUDES DIFFER WITH AREAS

A number of differences in attitudes
are apparent among residents of differ-
ent areas and different-sized localities.
Somewhat greater disapproval is regis-
tered by inhabitants of Greater Hesse
and Wuerttember-Baden where economic
conditions are somewhat more difficult
than in relatively prosperous Bavaria.
Similarly, residents of the three largesst
cities in the Zone — Munich, Frankfurt
and Stuttgart — are less in favor of the
measures than residents of smaller-sized
communities. A special survey made in
Berlin indicates that the extent of ap-
proval of the order approximates that
found in the largest cities in the Amer-
ican Zone.

There is considerable objection to the
new law in the rural areas. It seems
likely that an appreciable portion of the
present rural population is living in these
small villages not by choice but out of

necessity, and does not look with favor.

on any labor control measures. which
might permanently keep them from mov-
ing elsewhere to more desired types of

17

occupation. This, of ‘course, is part of
the difficult problem of including non-
farmers to take up jobs as agricultural
laborers. The law is least popular ‘in
towns with populations between’ 10,000
and 100,000.

ANALYSIS OF EMPLOYED

A separate analysis was made of
people who state that they were em-
ployed at present. About 57 percent of
the entire sampled adult population in
the American Zone state that they are
employed full-time or part-time. This
contrasts unfavorably with Berlin where,
according to the poll, 74 percent claim
to be employed.

Although the results of the surveys
have comparative value, they are to be
regarded only as rough estimates of em-
ployment, since what constitutes “em-
ployment” was not defined in precise
terms.

A solid majority (63 percent) of the
employed group are satisfied with their
jobs. Another fifth of the workers are
fairly well satisfied. About one in ten
workers are dissatisfied with their jobs,
half of them being very dissatisfied. The
rather surprising degree of satisfaction
with present employment must be at-
tributed primarily to a sober realization’
that job selection opportunities are now
strictly limited. Whatever the reason,
this relative satisfaction with present
employment simplifies for the time being
the control of labor mobility by the La-
bor Office authorities. When more jobs
become available, an increase in public
discontent with present limitations on
changing jobs may be expected.

Middle-aged people were more satis-
fied with their present employment than
those under 30 years. Among dissatisfied:
workers, complaints are heard that their
current job is different from that for
which they had been trained. Some white
collar workers point out that circum-

--- Page 21 ---
stances have forced them to accept or-
dinary labor tasks. Similarly, others com-
plain that their work is too hard. Former
Nazi Party members who have been de-
nazified complain frequently that their
present work is humiliating. Another
complaint is that the income today is too
low in view of the high taxes.

Another question probed the general
public’s feeling about jobs most difficult
to find. Half of those answering think
that white collar and office positions
come under this category. A smaller
group consider’ any light work and jobs
which provide food as most desired.

HOUSEKEEPING POPULAR

A special analysis was also made of
non-workers in the population. Nearly
half of the non-workers claim to be
housewives and do not consider obtain-

ing any other type of work. About a
quarter of the non-employed report that
they are unable to work — were too old,
sick, incapacitated, pensioned, ete. A
more interesting category of non-workers
is the former Nazis who had been denazi-
fied. They make up about one in ten of
the non-working population in the Amer-
ican Zone. In Berlin, denazified Nazis
made up a considerably smaller propor-
tion (2 percent) of the nonemployed
group.

About the same proportion of non-wor-
kers (2 percent) complain that there is
no work to be found in their area or that
they can not find desirable types of em-
ployment. On the basis of this survey,
then, it appears that about one in five
non-workers can be considered as un-
employed in the strict sense, that is, they
are neither housewives nor those physi-
cally incapable of work.

THE SPECTER OF INFLATION

The German public is becoming more
and more concerned over the possibility
of inflation. This trend is apparent from
two OMGUS Information Control Sur-
vey Unit samplings of popular confidence
in price stability, conducted in mid-Jan-
uary and mid-February in the US Zone.

The price situation is regarded in
terms of two separate problems. Most
people queried, recognized or conceded
the ability of the authorities to keep
prices down. In fact, on successive polls,
the number of people agreeing that MG
and the German authorities can hold
prices down has actually increased, prob-
ably because the authorities in the in-
terim successfully demonstrated their ab-
ility to keep prices from rising. But, ap-
parently, the public has become less con-
fident that the authorities will continue
to exercise the rigid controls that have
kept prices down.

18

The public seems to ha've become more
confused and uncertain as to what con-
trol policy MG will choose to exercise
‘ver currency and prices in the future.
One reason for this may be that by dis-
continuation of subsidies to farmers the
cost of living has been permitted to rise
slightly. This change in policy was an-
nounced by MG in early February — in
the period between the two public opin-
ion surveys, the results of which indicate
increased fear of price rises.

Fear of a possible devaluation of the
currency is another factor contributing to
public uncertainly about price stability.
During the wartime prosperity, a large
number of people accumulated consider-
able holdings of money. Unable for the
most part to safeguard their savings by
converting them into durable goods, these
people worry about the future value of

--- Page 22 ---
Question 1. ,Do you believe that MG and the German civil administration will be
able to hold most prices to their present level?"

The answers: mid-November mid-January mid-February
Yes (firmly convinced) . . . . 23 %Jo 5 40 5 0 32 %/, A
Yes... eee ; apf, {role ar fy g5 0), 4 77 Mo
No... eee eee . 5% 49, 7%,

No (firmly convinced) 4%, $21 %/, 3% $21 J, 7%, $14 %,
Worried, can't say. . . 12 J, 14 %/, .

No opinion... . 2... 9°, 8 %, 9°,

The answers:

as it is today 2”

The answers:

Question 2. ,Do you believe that most prices will remain at the same levels as they
are today, or do you believe that there will be a rise or fall in price?”

mid-January

Rise... 0. a _ 29 , 56 °/,
Fal... eee ee ee . 15%, 7%,
Remain thesame ....... 37 Fy 25 °F,
No opinion ......2.206- 20 %y 13 °/,

Question 3. ,Do you think that the Reichsmark will be worth as much in half a year

mid-February

Yes certainly. . . 2. F%
Yes fairly sure... . 2. . 21%
Now. eee ee eee 6 49%
No opinion .. 1... 2. + 223%

*) Attitude not separated on this survey.

Fig 1 The Germans fear relaxation of price controls.

their money. On the mid-February sur-
vey, half the sampled public stated that
they did not believe the Reichsmark
would be worth as much in six months
as it is today. Since this question was
not asked previously, it is not possible
to judge whether there is a trend toward
decreasing confidence in the Reichsmark,
but there is good supplementary evidence
to indicate that this is probably the case.
In the first few months of this year, the
German population has been agitated
periodically by increasingly strong ru-
mors about the stability of the currency.

Concern over the value of the currency
and over inflationary possibilities was
greater among some groups in the po-
pulation than others. The higher the
socio-economic status of the respondent,
the more likely was he to fear these
developments. Thus 40 percent of the
members of the upper economic groups,
but only 29 percent of the poorest feared
inflationary developments. These fears
were also somewhat more prevalent
among the better-educated (8 years or
more of education) and among those
under 30 years of age.

19

--- Page 23 ---
(Press Comments

Stateside Ediforials

Point Up The Lesson Of “Operation Nursery”

“Operation Nursery,” the round-up of
German Nazis by American and British
intelligence agents proves that “the Ger-
mans are down but not out as far as
ambitions to some time rule the world
go,” according to an editorial in the
New Orleans States.

“Jt should also prove a lesson the
American army psychologists have been
trying to teach our soldiers overseas:
That the frauleins are using them to
build up a belief that
the Germans aren’t
so bad, and to split
the Allies It
should be a lesson
to the wives and
families of men still overseas, too, and
should give them pause when they hear
the argument that all servicemen should
be returned home because they are no
longer needed in the vanquished coun-
tries. ‘

“Anyone who thinks that the German
can turn inside out in a few months
‘was probably surprised at the announce-
ment of the raids netting so many Nazis,
working underground against the Allies
and their occupation troops ....... the
Prussian militarists as well as the nuc-
leus of the Hitler Youth movement, un-
derground but still advocating Nazi
tenets, wiill do their best to ‘unhorse’ the
Alllies, get them out of the country, then
start their plans for world conquest
anew.

The surest way in the world for
us to have another war in the next gen-
eration is to pull out our troops before
it is time to leave Germany ... Occupa-

20

tion promises to be a long, tough job,
but one that must be done for the peace
of the world.”

The Norfolk Ledger Dispatch reminds
its readers that even though Allied auth-
orities felt that a plot to revive Hit-
llerism would be one of the serious oc-
‘cupations problems, the appearance of
such a plot is none the less disturbing.

“The outlawing of Nazi organizations
‘would hardly be accepted without a
struggle. The men and women revealed
as the leaders in the movement, which
has been attacked, were for the most
part reared under the influence of the
Nazi ideal. The fanaticism of the adhe-
rents of this ideal has been abundantly
demonstrated. No one need expect that
they will submit to defeat without resi-
stance whenever possible.

“But the fact that such movements
may be accepted as the normal reaction
of a spirited people makes them none
the less subversive of the plan to root
out from German life the last vestiges
of the power and influence which
plunged Germany and the world into a
cataclysm. The Allied round-up... is
evidence of vigorous control and may
serve as a restraining influence, for the
time being, upon Germans who are not
inclined to submit without protest.” But,
the Ledger Dispatch observes, “it is
evidence, too, of the need for this con-
trol and of the danger that will lie ahead
both for Germany and for the rest of
the world if there is any relaxation of
the efforts to uncover and destroy ...
this evil.”

--- Page 24 ---
The St. Louis Star Times, however,
took a different view of Operation Nur-
sery. “We do not have to fear Nazi
diehards. The recent raids against them
where suitably called ‘Occupation Nur-
sery. Their scheme was childish and
premature. They never could be more
than a nuisance to the occupying forces.”

But, the editorial warns, there is al-
most certain to be trouble in Germany
if the Allies do not handle the occupa-
tion with wisdom. “.... we must be
on our guard lest the revival of Ger-
many is so botched that the accumulated
greivances will be the occasion for the
rise of a new anti-democratie force in
the Reich. Such an element would not
bear the stigma of Hitler’s defeat any
more than Hitler assumed responsibility
for the Kaiser and Junkers. It would
rise out of the greivances of its own
time and place. It would not be a dis-
credited movement seeking vindication. It
would be led by a new prophet raising
a new flag. If it comes into being, it wall
be through our own fault.”

GERMANY AT THE CROSSROADS

How the occupying nations work to
encourage democratic ideals to a strong
degree will determine the “real mortality
of Nazism and the birth of liberal demo-
cracy in Germany,” an editorial in the
Birmingham News declares.

“Pan-Germanism was not defeated by
military blows; ideas are rendered ob-
solescent only by the ascendancy of more
popular ideals. A major necessity of our
occupational offort should be must be
to afford ample oportunity for better
ideals, as we see them, to gain such as-
cendancy.

“How much emphasis has been placed
in supplanting the Nazi idea has not been
made clear. As time passes and immed-
iate German needs are met, avenues
will be open in two directions: The Ger-
mans may feel encouraged to bring forth
a reinvigorated, and perhaps camou-

2t

flaged, new Nazi program; or they may
feel encouraged to emulate the structures
of the democracies.”

OF WHEAT AND OIL

Warning that “hunger threatens to

nullify all our war sacrifices,” Secretary
of Agriculture Clinton Anderson told the
International

Rotary Meeting in
Washington that the
needs of humanity
eall for the fulfill-
ment of US food ex-
port goals, food pro-
duction goals, and
conservation of available supplies.

Anderson pointed out that during 1946,
the US would export about eleven mil-
lion tons of wheat — seven times as
much as the average shipped in prewar
years. He noted that this performance
is sometimes obscured by the very great
needs abroad. ‘

Describing the fats and oils situation
as next in importance to wheat, Ander-
son said the US was exporting 375,000
tons of fats and oils in 1946 and holding
down imports to 300,000 tons as com-
pared with average pre-war imports of
over a million tons annually. He added
that the American people would have 20
percent less fats and oils in the months
immediately ahead as compared with
the same period last year.

DOG EAT DOG

Defense council for Hermann Goering
has virtually admitted that the former
Reich Marshal is cracking the wip over
his Nazi codefendants in a conspiracy to
conceal his -and_ their - war-crime guilt
according to the New York Herald Tri-
bune. Dr. Otto Stahmer, Gocring’s attorney,
told the international tribunal during a
wrangle between defense attorneys that
Goering informed him Tuesday night
that if Schacht, another defendant,
should not testify. to his liking, then
Goering “on his part had to drop any

--- Page 25 ---
consideration for Schacht.” This admis-
sion followed disclosure that Schacht
and Wilhelm Frick, another defendant,
were going to try to save their own
skins by attacking their fellow defen-
dants, notably Goering. Hans Bernd Gise-
vius, former assistant to Frick and
Frick’s sole witness, told the court that
Goering had been far bloodhirstier than
even Hitler, while Frick and Schacht
worked ceaselessly to overthrov the Nazi
regime.

RESPONSIBILITIES OF LEADERSHIP

President Truman told members of
Washington’s Ministerial Union that
“the world is at the crossroads” and the
US must not shirk its responsibilities
to the world.

Asserting that the “United States as
‘a mation came out of this war as a
leader,’ Mr. Truman expressed some
fear that the US is losing sight of some
iof its responsibilities. He said, “It came
‘out of the war with the greatest produc-
tion machine in the history of the world.
It came out with all the best things
that are in us brought to the surface.
But since V-J Day I fear very much
we are losing sight of our responsibili-
ties. God intended us to assume them
some 25 or 30 years ago and we shirked
them. We can’t shirk them now.”

The President pointed out that “one
of the immediate things with which we
are faced is feeding the starving.” He
told the group of ministers that they
could help in this work.

INEVITABLE DEVELOPMENT

Lyle Van of MBS finds General
McNarney’s order to tighten discipline
throughout the Theater an in-
evitable development. “The
way things are going,” he says,
“we face a great danger; we're
losing the respect of the Ger-
mans; we are losing the res-
pect of our allies ... our soldiers must
tighten up on discipline. It must be if we

22

are to do our job, if the soldiers them-
selves are not to suffer the consequen-
ces.” :

FEED GERMANY LAST

Analyzing the results of the Mutual
Network’s poll of sentiment on the re-
turn to food rationing in the US, com-
mentator Cecil Brown points out that
general sentiment as expressed in the
poll was against sharing food with the
German people. “The usual comment
was: Let the victims of the Germans
have food first and, if any remains,
then let it go to the Germans.”

MORE ON NURSERY

Henry Gladstone of MBS expresses the
opinion that it’s doubly important that
all connected with such German subver-
sive movements as the one revealed by
“Operation Nursery” be apprehended as
soon as possible. “For,” Gladstone points
out, “in addition to the fanatical efforts
such persons exert on behalf of their
distorted beliefs, they are capable of
arousing others to demonstrations
against Occupation Forces. This is done
by playing up the plight of the Germans
at present, by dwelling on the fact that
the Germans are on mear-starvation ra-
tions. It will take some time and will
require great care on the part of Allied
authorities to weather the period of
Occupation in Germany.”

FOOD FOR PEACE

Speaking on the international food
crisis, Ned Calmer of CBS sees the need
for food becoming the dominant world
issue. “.... and it’s up to the countries
that have more than they need to send
their surplus to countries that are near
starvation. The implication of these facts
was stated by General Eisenhower. ‘Food
is the most important means of pre-
serving the peace,’ he said; ‘without it
the world is heading for another war in
which Americans will die.” The world
is depending on the farm regions of the
US.”

--- Page 26 ---
Station List

Military Government Elements

UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, US

Office of
Mil Gov for
Germany US Berlin

Office of Mil Gov
for Warttemberg-
Baden Stuttgart

Hq 1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart

Hq & Sv Co 1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart

1st Mobile Maint Plat Zuffenhausen
Hq 1st MG Med Gp Stuttgart

Wiirttemberg

Stuttgart
Stuttgart
Ulm

Aalen
Boblingen
Crailsheim
Esslingen
eons
Sppingen
Sclwabtsch Hall
Heidenheim
Heilbronn
Ludwigsburg
Waiblingen
Backnang
Kanzelsau
Leonberg
Bad Mergentheim
Nartingen
Ohringen
Vaihingen

Le OObeoeobesae
RONROMRS

ne

ron tr ncn dn don

THAT TI TORPQOOANONOOAs AS
ARRONSSSBIAR

&

Landesbezirk North Baden

F-16 Mannheim

G-43 Heidelberg

G-46 Pforzheim

G-47 Karlsruhe

H-87 Bruchsal

H-89 Buchen

H-90 Mosbach

H-91 Tauberbischofsheim
H-92 Sinsheim

LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep)

(APO 154)

Wiarttemberg
SK Stuttgart
SK-LK Ulm
LK Aalen

LK Béblingen
LK Crailsheim
LK Eselingen
LK Gmin

LK Géppingen
LK Hall

LK Heidenheim
LK Heilbronn
LK Ludwigsburg
LK Waiblingen
LK Backnang
LK Kanzelsau
LK Leonberg
LK Mergentheim
LK Niartingen
LK Obringen
LK Vaihingen

SK-LK Mannheim
SK-LK Heidelberg
SK-LK Pforzheim
SK-LK Karlsruhe

LK Bruchsal

LK Buchen

LK Mosbach

LK Tauberbischofsheim
LK Sinsheim

23

LtGen Lucius D Clay, Deputy
Military Governor

Maj Gen C L Adcock, Assistant
Deputy Military Governor

Col M O Edwards

Col M O Edwards
1st a at Clifford
Capt Thom;

Lt Col Beckjord

Col M O Edwards
Lt Col L Jackson

-Capt R N Tharp

Capt R H Nation
Capt R H Agato

Capt W R Danheiser
Capt F_A McDonald
1st Lt J E Switzer
Maj J A Holbrook
1st Lt H Putman

Maj B V Bloom

1st Lt P F Sullivan
1st Lt J Strauss

Capt J B Cross

Capt B Panettiere
Capt W L Strauss
Capt W J Vallaza
Capt R Forrest

Maj S A Warren
1st Lt M Korson
1st Lt R E Alley

Maj M L Hoover

Lt Col W T Burt
1st Lt N Semaschko
Maj W T Neel

1st Lt L L Goldman
Maj J A McGinness
1st Lt I Maghran

1st Lt J Zecca

Capt H D Peterson

--- Page 27 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Office of Mil Gov.
for Land Greater Hesse -
_.-Wiesbaden .

Hq 2d Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Wiesbaden
Hq Co 2d Mil Gov Bn If ep) Wiesbaden
Sv Co 2d Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Oberursel
2d MG Med G;

H-87 US Ln Det Essen (Ruhr)
H-88 US Ln Det Sulzbach (Saar)
307 Hq (Westphalia Reg) Munster

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

E-5 Wiesbaden
E-6 Frankfurt

F-15 Wiesbaden
G-41 Wetzlar

H-77 Dillenburg
H-78 Gelnhausen
H-79 Hanau

H-80 Weilburg
H-81 Hofheim

H-83 Radesheim
H-86 Bad Homburg

Regierungsbezirk Kassel

E-4 Kassel

F-14 Kassel
G38 Fritzlar
G-39 Marburg
G-40 Fulda

G-48 Korbach
H-65 Eschwege
H-67 Hersfeld -
H-68 Hofgeismar

Regierungsbezirk Hessen

E-3 Darmstadt
F-12 Darmstadt

F-13 Offenbach
G-31 Heppenheim

G-32 Badingen
G-33 Dieburg
G-34 Friedberg
G-35 Giessen
H-62 Lauterbach

*Liaison and security

LAND GREATER HESSE

2d Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

Liaison
Liaison

RB Wiesbaden
SK Frankfurt
SK Wiesbaden
LK Wetzlar
LK Dillenburg
LK Gelnhausen &
*LK Schlachtern
SK-LK Hanau
*LK Limburg &
LK Oberlabn
LK Maintaunus
LK Rheingau
*LK Usingen &
LK Obertaunus

RB Kassel & *LK Melsungen
SK-LK Kassel &
*LK Melsungen
LK Fritzlar-Homburg &
*LK Ziegenhain
SK-LK Marburg
SK-LK Fulda & *LK Hinfeld
LK Waldeck & *LK Frankenberg
LK Eschwege &
*LK Witzenhausen
LK Hersfeld &
*LK Rotenpurg
LK Hofgeismar &
*LK Wolfhagen

RB Hessen

SK-LK Darmstadt &
*LK Gross-Gerau

SK-LK Offenbach

LK Bergstrasse & *LK Erbach
LK Badingen

LK Dieburg

LK Friedberg &
*ICB Bad Nauheim

SK-LK Giessen

LK cauterbach & *LK Alsfeld

24

Col J R Newman

Col J R Newman
Capt H E York
Capt B A Sturdevan
Maj BH Kean

Capt G E Skaggs
Maj W Condy

Lt Col L J Dockal

Col J R Newman
Col R K Phelps
Maj M E Chotas
Maj M Baymor
Capt G A Abood

Capt W F Johnson
Lt Col T Turner

Capt H L Edberg
Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hintz

Capt LR Jones

Lt Col A Skarry
Maj G CSola

Lt W W Lechner ©

Maj R A Gish

Lt Col C F Russe

Capt H R Dichtenmueller

Maj R F Musgrove
Capt G S Iredell
Capt S B Borda

Lt Col W R Swarm

Capt NR Laird
Capt C H Carter
Maj L H Brown
Capt T A Norris
Capt J S Chapin

Maj R J Willard
Capt C H Lenneville
Capt H Nickelsberg

--- Page 28 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Office of
Mil Gov for
Bavaria Munich

Hq 3d Mil Gov Regt Munich
Hq Co Munich

Sv Co Munich

3d MG Med Det Munich

Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken

Co A Warzburg
E-202 = Wiirzburg
F-210 Wirzburg
G-221 Schweinfurt
G-202 Aschaffenburg
*A-250 Bad Kissingen
*A-251 Kitzingen
*A-330 Alzenau
*A-331 Briickenau
*A-332 Ebern
*A-333  Gemiinden
*A-334  Gerolzhofen
*A-335 Hammelburg
*A-336 Hassfurt
*A-337  _Hofheim
*A-338 = Karlstadt
*A-339  Kénigshofen
*A-340 Lohr
*A-341 Marktheidenfeld
*A-342 — Mellrichstadt
*A-343 — Miltenberg
*A-344 Neustadt Saale
*A-345 Obernburg
*A-346 Ochsenfurt

LAND BAVARIA

3d Mil Gov Regt
(APO 170)

RB Mainfranken
SK-LK Warzburg
SK-LK Aschaffenburg
SK-LK Schweinfurt
LK Kissingen
LK Kitzingen
LK Alzenau
LK Brackenau
LK Ebern
LK Gemiinden
LK Gerolzhofen
LK Hammelburg
LK Hassfurt
LK Hofheim
LK Kénigahot
ni; fen.
LK Lohr
LK Markt Heidenfeld
LK Mellrichstadt
LK Miltenberg
LK Neustadt a. d. Saale
LK Obernburg
LK Ochsenfurt

Regierungsbezirk Ober & Mittelfranken

Co B Ansbach
E-203 Ansbach
F-211 Nirnberg
G-222 Bamberg
G-223 Bayreuth
G-224 = Erlangen
G-225 Coburg
*B-226 Kronach

G-227 Hof
G-228 Ansbach
G-229 Firth

*B-247 Lichtenfels
*B-252 Ebermannstadt
*B-253 Hochstadt
*B-254 Kulmbach
*B-255 Pegnitz
*B-256  Munchberg
*B-258 Rehau
*B-259 Wunsiedel
*B-260 Forcheim
*B-261 Dinkelsbihl
*B-262 Eichstadt

*Liaison and security

RB Ober and Mittelfranken
SK-LK Narnberg

SK-LK Bamber,

SK-LK Bayreuth

LK Erlangen

SK-LK Coburg

LK Kronach

SK-LK Hof

SK-LK Ansbach

SK-LK Farth

LK Lichtenfels

LK Ebermannstadt

LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
LK Kulmbach

LK Pegnitz

LK Munchberg

LK Rehau

LK Wunsiedel

LK Forcheim

LK Eichstadt

25

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C C Morgan
Capt J W Preston
Capt L R Clark
Capt B H Waksman

Maj J M Phillips
Maj J M Philipps
Maj M B Voorhees
Capt J R Hurst

Maj G M Marsh
Capt M A Potter
Capt L A Mercadante
Capt A T Neumann
Capt Grodzinski
Capt R W Jones
Capt J J Cotter

1st Lt G F Feehan
Capt K L Ellis

Capt R E Hellmig
Capt F L Beelby
Capt W E Brayden
Capt C Boden

Capt Griffin

Maj M B Voorhees
1st Lt L K Owens
Capt D J Huffman
Capt E F Warnke
Capt J Bumic

Capt H A Storm

Col EM Haight

Col E M Haight

Lt Col C Klise

Lt Col J R Case

Capt B F Stroup

Lt Col F Robie

Maj S Klein

Capt J F Begley
Maj HL Woodall

Lt Col W R Whitaker
Maj A C Abbott

Maj F W Crimp

Maj R T Boyer

Maj F K Hinchey
Lt Col P B Lamson :
Capt F J Stamatis
Maj HC Kauffman
Capt W W Evans

Maj H W Zurn
Capt J F Wyatt
Capt R J Towle

--- Page 29 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR.
COMMANDING OFFICER

*B-263 Feuchtwangen
*B-264 Gunzenhausen
*B-265 Hersbruck
*B-266 —_Hilpoltstein
*B-267 Weissenburg
*B-268 Rothenburg
*B-269 Schwabach
*B-270 — Scheinfeld
*B-271 Windsheim
*B-272 = Lauf

*B-273 Neustadt a. d. Aisch
*B-347 = Naila

*B-348 — Stadtsteinach

LK Feuchtwangen
LK Gunenbausen
LK Hersbruck
LK Hilpoltstein
LK Weissenburg
LK Rothenburg
LK Schwabach
LK Scheinfeld
LK Uffenheim
LK Lauf

LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch
LK Naila

LK Stadtsteinach

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern & Oberpfalz

Co D Regensburg
E-204 Regensburg
F-212 Regensburg
G-230 Weiden

G-243 Passau

G-244 Amberg

G-245  — Landshut

G-246 Straubing
*D-274 €ham
*D-275 Burglengenfeld
*D-276 Parsberg
*D-277 Tirschenreuth
*D-278 Neunburg
*D-279 Eschenbach
*D-301 Deggendorf
*D-302 Eggenfelden
*D-303 Grafenau
*D-304  Kelheim
*D-305 Landau
*D-306 Pfarrkirchen
*D-307 = Zweisel
*D-308 —- Vilshofen
*D-309 _—-Vilsiburg
*D-310 Wolfstein
*D-349 Kemnath
*D-350 Nabburg
*D-351 Oberviechtach
*D-352 Riedenberg
*D-353 Vohenstrauss
*D-354 Roding
*D-355 Waldminchen
*D-356 Beilngries
*D-357 Neumarkt
*D-358  Sulzbach-Rosenburg
*D-375 Bogen
*D-377 Dingolfing
*D-278 Griesbach
*D-379 — Kétzting
*D-380 Mainburg
*D-381 Mallersdorf
*D-382 Rottenburg
*D-383 Viechtach
*D-385 Wegscheid

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Co E Munich
E-205 Munich
F-213 Munich
G-231 _—‘ Freising

*Liaison and security

RB Niederbayern & Oberpfalz
SK-LK Regensburg
SK Weiden &
LK Neustadt a. d. Wald
SK-LK Passau
SK-LK Amberg
SK-LK Landshut
SK-LK Straubing
LK Cham
LK Burglengenfeld
LK Parsberg
LK Tirschenreuth
LK Neunburg vorm Wald
LK Eschenbach i. d. Opf.
LK Deggendorf
LK Eggenfelden
LK Grafenau
LK Kelheim
LK Landau a. d. Isar
LK Pfarrkirchen
LK Regen
LK Vilshofen
LK Vilsibur;
LK Wolfstein
LK Kemnath
LK Nabburg
LK Oberviechtach
LK Riedenberg
LK Vohenstrauss
LK Roding
LK Waldminchen
LK Beilngries
LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
LK Sulzbach-Rodenburg
LK Bogen
LK Dingolfing
ie acted
‘Stati
LK Mainburg
LK Mallersdorf
LK Rottenburg
LK Viechtach
LK Wegscheid

RB Oberbayern
SK-LK Munich
LK Freising

26

1st Lt D J Smith
Maj R J Nielsen

1st Lt L D Franklin
Capt R E Peters

1st Lt W C Williams
Maj J D Cofer

Maj R E Stringer
Capt G B Jones

Capt L C Wheeler
Maj E N Humphrey
Capt G B Jones, Actg
1st Lt D Wick

Capt H C Moore

Lt Col G D Hastings
Lt Col G D Hastings
Maj C G Doyle

Maj J C Robertson
May M Wickersham
Maj J H Mattox

1st Lt P T Little

Maj H T Olsen

Capt D E Waugh

Maj E Fichter

1st Lt P N Giccola
Capt L R Mariels
Capt R G Miller

Capt R O Woodward
1st Lt H Cohen

Maj T R B Coykendall
1st Lt R Macwhorker
Capt G L Milner

1st Lt H Fueglein
Maj F T Brewster
Capt A R Sphar
Capt G W Cunningham
Capt J W Fleshman
Capt M J Jarvis
Capt R Dayton

Capt F_N Shanbacker
Capt C H Smallwood
1st Lt T B Wofford
Capt F Trayham

Capt D K Nickerson
1st Lt F Henry

1st Lt R W Crowley
1st Lt M W Doane
Capt A J Dann

Capt A G Albert
Capt M O Smith

Capt A J Gallant

Lt J C Mitchell

1st Lt J J McWatters
Lt P A Nesbit

1st Lt C G Dansby
Capt R E Pike

1st Lt A L Stone

Lt Col J W Hensel
Lt Col J W Hensel
Lt Col E Keller
Maj E Boney

--- Page 30 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

*E-232 Miesbach
*E-233 — Traunstein
*E-234 — Altdtting
G-235 Rosenheim
*E-236 Partenkirchen
G-237 Ingolstadt
*E-280 ~—_ Erding
*E-281 Laufen
*E-282 = Mihldorf
*E-283 Wasserburg
*E-284 = Bad_ Télz
*E-285 — Aibling
*E-286 Firstenfeldbruck
*E-287 Landsberg
*E-288 Pfaiienhofen
*E-289 Starnberg
*E-290  Weilheim
*E-291 Wolfratshausen
*E-311 Berchtesgaden
*E-361 Ebersberg
*E-364 Schrobenhausen
*E-362 Aichach
*E-367 Dachau
*E-368  Schéngau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Co G Augsburg

E-206 Augsburg

F-214 Augsburg
*G-239 Dillingen
*G-240 Weissenborn
*G-241 Sonthofen
*G-242 Kempten
*G-292 Donauwérth
*G-293 Ginzberg
*G-294 Markt Oberdorf
*G-295 Memmingen
*G-296  Mindelheim
*G-297 Neuberg
*G-298 Noérdlingen
*G-299 Fiissen
*G-300 Krumbach
*G-369 Illertissen
*G-370 Kaufbeuren
*G-372 Wertingen
*G-373 Friedberg
*G-374 Schwabmiinchen.

Office of

Mil Gov

(US Sector

Berlin) Berlin

Office of Mil Gov
(Bremen Port Command) Bremen

Office of Mil Gov

for Bremen Bremen
Office of Mil Gov
for Weserminde Wesermiinde

*Liaison and security

LK Miesbach

LK Traunstein

LK Altétting
SK-LK Rosenheim
LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen
SK-LK Ingolstadt
LK Erding

LK Laufen

LK Mihldorf

LK Wasserburg
LK Télz

LK Aibling

LK Farstenfeldbrick
LK Landsberg

LK Pfaffenhofen
LK Starnberg

LK Weilheim

LK Wolfratshausen
LK Berchtesgaden
LK Ebersberg

LK Aichach

LK Schrobenhausen
LK Dachau

LK Schéngau

RB Schwaben
SK-LK Augsburg
LK Dillingen

LK Neu Ulm

LK Sonthofen
SK-LK Kempten
LK Donauwérth
LK Ginzberg

LK Markt Oberdorf
LK Memmingen
LK Mindelheim

LK Neuberg a. d. Donau
LK Nordlingen

LK Fassen

LK Krumbach

LK Iilertissen

LK Kaufbeuren

LK Wertingen

LK Friedberg

LK Schwabmiinchen

U.S. SECTOR, BERLIN DISTRICT

U.S. Sector, Berlin District
(APO 755)

BREMEN PORT COMAND
(APO 751)

Bremen Port Command
SK Bremen

SK Weserminde

27

Maj M Dizdar

Maj C H Bischoff
Capt W Cedleut
Capt R H Necel
Maj F L Tracy

Maj M H Nitz

Maj C A Brown
Capt N W Borring
Capt W M Forys
Capt D Root

Capt W N Dickerson
Maj E J Newmeyer
Capt J J McBride
Capt M L Mott
Capt J E Thayer
Capt B B Simmons
Capt M J Groves
Maj P L Steers
Maj M Mawrence
1st Lt C C Smith
Maj H T Hesson
Capt H J Bierman
Maj A G Snow
Capt E L Bark

Lt Col CM Avery
Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
1st Lt H D Herzfeld
Capt J A Morris
Maj J E Rhea

Lt Col RS Wagner
Capt R Glass

CCapt J S Woodward
Capt B M Green
1st Lt R I Lawrence
Maj E C Bunker
Capt E D Schanck
Lt P W Thomson
Capt S D Lubin
Capt C E Whitney
Capt J O Renalds
Capt D G Stevens
Lt W AGranam
Capt D J Moran
Capt T B Creaves

Col F L Howley

Lt Col C H Scott
Lt Col J M Shamel

Lt Col L S Diggs

--- Page 31 ---
