--- Page 2 ---
No. 46 — 17 JUNE 1946

Military Government

Weekly
Information Bulletin

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT
FOR GERMANY, US
CONTROL OFFICE
APO 742 U.S. ARMY

--- Page 3 ---
UNITED STATES ZONE, GERMANY

Greater Hesse, Wiirttemberg-Baden

MOFGEIS-
mar

ne MOSSEL [wiTZEN=

Siausene

BRITISH ZONE

RUSSIAN

ZONE

FRENCH

Ses

a

WO RET EM B EB G
A. Cees nw AALEN

J

tle waiBLINGEN
ne GMUND

LEGEND Va

——— _REGIERUNGSBEZIRYE AND 2
LANDESBEZIRK BADEN a
——— LANDKREISE AND STADTKREISE ‘

:; ZONE

é
{ 10 5
: wes

TATISTICS SECTION

SOURCE OMG-R&! BRANCH ‘C GEN STAFF USFET

--- Page 4 ---
No. 46 — 17 JUNE 1946

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

WEEKLY
INFORMATION BULLETIN

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT
FOR GERMANY, US
CONTROL OFFICE
APO 742 U.S. ARMY

--- Page 5 ---


--- Page 6 ---
THIS WEEK

PAGE

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS. ........ 4
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY es)
Symbol of Quadripartite Cooperation. . . . . . . 5
New German Citizens. . 2... 2... 8
Social Insurance in Germany. . . . . . . . . . 114

Two New Decrees Point Towards Further Denazification 13

GENERAL .... .. 14
Laenderrat and OMGUS Draft New Export Import
Program an an oe ee 14
US Aid to German F Food ‘Supply rf)
Gift Parcels for Germans. . . . . . . . . . 15
Review of MG Court Decisions. . . . . . 1. 1. 15
CARE Package Progam ....... 2... =. 16
US Books for Bavarian Schools. . . . . . . . . 16
US Aids Ruhr Coal Production. . . . 1°... . 16
Berlin Elections. . . 2...) 2. ee ee
Transport Facilities . . . . . . . ... . . . 17
Trade Union Federations. . . . . . . . . 17
Inter-Zonal Trade. 2. 2. ww wee

GRMAN REACTIONS ...... . + + + 18
Anti-Fascists Address Appeal To Returning V War veterans 18
Election Results . . . ....... 2... . 18

« Comments of SPD Leader. . . . . . .. . . . 18
The Church and Politics . 2. 2. 2. 2... 2 we 19
Big and Little Nazis. . . . 2... . 1... 19

PRESS AND RADIO COMMENTS. .... . 20

STATION LIST. . 2... 2... ee 28

--- Page 7 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Voting by Personnel of Armed Forces in 1946
Elections rn

Resources Boards for US Occupied Zone
of Germany

Initial Theater Priorities for Allocation of Indi-
genous Civilian Manpower in the US Occupied
Zone . .

Allowances of Expendable Quartermaster
Supplies

Issuance of Petroleum Products for Vehicular
Operations

Casualty Reporting .
School for Government of Occupied Areas,
Carlisle Barracks, Carlisle, Pennsylvania .

Crop Damage by Wild Animals .
Information Control Activities .

Jurisdiction of Interdivisional Committee on
German Governmental Structure .

Provision of Facilities, Services and Assistance
in Tracing Activities

Cir No 70, USFET
23 May, 1946

Cir No 71 USFET
23 May, 1946

AG 230 GDS-AGO, USFET
23 May, 1946

Cir No 75, USFET
27 May, 1946

Cir No 77, USFET
28 May, 1946

Cir No 78, USFET
29 May, 1946

AG 352 (CO), OMGUS
29 May, 1946

AG 403 (ED), OMGUS
29 May, 1946

AG 041.1 (CS), OMGUS
31 May, 1946

AG 334 (CA), OMGUS
4 June, 1946

AG 322 (DP), OMGUS
5 June, 1946

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters

--- Page 8 ---
Berlin's ACA Building Headqu

ni

for Four- r Rule of y.

Home of Contro! Council and Other ‘Groups Planning Reich’s Future

Example of Allied Efforts to Extend War Unity into Occupation Period.

By Thomas A. Falco.

At first glance, it looks like any one
of ‘a number of office buildings taken
over by American troops in the occu-
pation of Berlin. But instead of just the
Stars and Stripes, the flags of three
other allied nations fly from the white
flagpoles that stand before. the main en-
trance and tower above the lawn and
beech trees of adjacent Kleist Park.
Built in 1914, this four-story building
formerly housed the Kammergericht, high-
est court of Prussia. In one its 550
peck in ye 1944, Hitler set
e plein Court,

very same room, ranking ‘pepresentatives
of the four occupying powers — France,
Great Britain, Soviet Russia, the United

s that are shaping the Germany
and the Germany of tomorrow.

the Allied Control Authority
, a striking symbol of the ability
of the Four Powers to work together
in peace as well as in war.

Here, the commanding generals of the
four zones of occupation (Allied Con-
trol Council) meet three times a month
to make final decisions concerning the
‘occupation of Germany. Here, their four
deputies (Coordinating Committee) meet
at least seven times a month. Here, also,
hundreds of civilian and military person-
nel from Great Britain, Frage, Soviet Rus-

sia, and the United States meet daily.
They comprise the members and workers
of the twelve Control Staff Directorates:
military; naval; air; transport; political;
economics; finance; reparations; deliv-
ries and restitutions; legal; prisoner of
war and displaced persons; manpower;
and internal affairs and communications.
Each of the directorates operates com-
pletely on a quadripartite basis, taking
the various problems connected with the
occupation of Germany and trying to
settle them in terms of the basic policies
agreed to by the governments of the
Four Powers. Every directorate sched-
ules three to four meetings a month, but
the actual number varies with the job
at hand. In February, when the postwar
level of German industry was being thrash-
‘ed out, the Economics Directorate met
eight times and one of the meetings ran
from 11 ‘a. m. one day through to 4 a. m.
the next. ;

- Considering all ‘quadripartite groups
_ directorates, committees, subcommit-
tees, working parties — an average of 15
meetings are held in the ACA Building
every day. In spite of the diverse politi-
al, economic, and social background rep-
‘esented, these meetings pay off in the
form of several quadripartite agreements

uilding looks like
om what it looked
en the Second Arm-
els”) Division roll-

--- Page 9 ---
ed in to take it over as part of the
American Sector. Rifle fire, incendiary
bombs, and artillery shells had ripped
the roof, blasted the windows, smashed
the main staircase, and wrecked the
lighting, heating and plumbing systems.
The two upper floors, the third and
fourth, were a shambles; in nearby Kleist
Park, direct bomb hits had ploughed up
the lawn.

Late in July 1945, it was chosen as
the seat of the Allied Control Authority,
the name applied to the overall Four
Power organization now running Ger-
many. Repairs began immediately and
were made by combat battalions of the
US Corps of Engineers — chiefly the
294th, 252nd, and 2828th — part of the
Berlin District forces.

The problem of furnishing the build-
ing was solved by the tenants them-
selves, and in quadripartite style; each
of the four contributed what it could-
linoleum, carpets, and cutlery from one;
porcelain, glass, and statuary from an-
other; tables, chairs, and kitchen equip-
ment from a third.

DIRECTORATES BEGIN TO OPERATE

As the debris was swept out and the
building pieced together, first furnishings
were moved in and the directorates began
to operate. Thereafter, the combat engi-
neers were never more than a strike of

the nail or stroke of the brush ahead of.

the tenants; the directorates and their
staffs moved in as rapidly as repairs on
their allotted spaces would permit. A
few months ago, on 1 April 1946, the
reconstruction of what was once the
Kammergericht was complete, and the
ACA had a home.

In all the world, there is no other home
quite like it. Administration of the build-
ing — the housekeeping and the mess —
is in the hands of five US Army officers,
who direct the work of 280 German civilian
cooks, bakers, waitresses, carpenters,
electricians, barbers, manicurists, tele-

phone operators,
tenance men.

The 26 waitresses can take your order
in French, English, or Russian, right from
the quadripartite menu. Whether you
speak English, French, Russian or “Ame-
rican,” each of the eight telephone oper-
ators can handle your call. The building
also has a quadripartite barber shop; and
plans are under way for a quadripartite
movie theatre and concert hall.

and general main-

AMERICAN GUARDS

‘Like the housekeeping and the mess,
guarding of the building is also in US
hands. Some 200 men of Company H,
310th Infantry, 78th (“Lightning”) Divi-
sion, mount 17 different posts — several
of them 24 hours a day — to make the
ACA building the heaviest guarded struc-
ture in Berlin. Everything else about the
building has a Four Power cast.

“Pull — Tirez — K CEGE.” Whether
you’re an American or a Briton, a French-
man or a Russian, the instructions on
the first door you go through — after
walking past the helmeted guards with
fixed bayonets — sets the stage for an
adventure in quadripartite cooperation.

“Your identification, please.”

At a desk inside the door, one of the
smartly-dressed guards from Company H
has spotted for an American and wants
to see your AGO card and Four Power
pass. At three other desks there are
three other guards — British, French,
Soviet — who make a similar “security
check” of their own countrymen.

THREE-LANGUAGE BULLETIN BOARD

There is a stairway before you, at the
head of which a bulletin board lists, in
three languages, the time and location of
each of the day’s meetings. Now you
are in a rotunda, with three tiers of col-
onnaded balconies that sweep the eye
upward to a gilt chandelier studded with
a hundred lights. Across the rotunda is
another stairway and over it hang the
flags of the Four Powers.

--- Page 10 ---
Standing under these flags and fac-
ing the main entrance, the Tricolor hangs
at the right. Next to’ it is the Hammer
and Sickle of the Soviet Union, then the
Stars and Stripes, and finally the Union
Jack. This arrangement will hold through-
out the month of June, known as “French
month,” and is based on a unique fea-
ture of the ACA’s operation — rotation
of chairmanships.

During June, the French representa-
tives of all directorates and committees act
as chairmen. This extends to ACA’s two
top bodies: Lt.-Gen. Pierre Koenig is
chairman for all June meetings of the
Allied Controll Council; Lt.-Gen. Louis
Koeltz presides at meetings of the Co-
ordniating Committee. In July, “Soviet
month,” Marshal Vassily D. Soko-
lovsky will take over at Control
Council meetings, and his colleague, Lt.-
Gen. M. I. Dratvin, will act as chairman
at meetings of the Coordinating Com-
mittee.*

FLAGS FLY DURING SESSIONS

The arrangement of the flags inside
the building is repeated by the four that
fly before the main entrance; but there
is one variation with respect to the em-
blems themselves. On days when either
the Allied Control Council Coordinat-

ing Committee is to meet, double-size

flags (10’x19’) are hoisted up the 60-
foot flagpoles.

The quadripartite character of the se-
curity check and the flags extends to the
reception room, the message center, the
sign on the doors of the various offices,
and to the bar and restaurant.

As might be expected, the bar is a
popular place, especially since the leading
liquors of the four nations are available.
Cognac and champagne are contributed

* Gen. Joseph T. McNaney (US), and Marshal
of the Royal Air Force Sir Sholto Douglas (Great
Britain) are the other two members of the Allied
Control Council; on the Coordinating Committee,
the remaining two members are Lt.-Gen. Lucius D.
Clay, and Lt.-Gen. Sir Brian “Robertson.

by the French, gin and scotch by the Bri-
tish, whiskey by the Americans, and vod-
ka — direct from Moscow via plane —
by the Soviet Union. Prices range from
2’marks for scotch to 7 marks for
champagne, and you can order from a
drink list printed in three, languages.

Done in creamy white and salmon, the
bar has a gay look that might be con-
sidered out of keeping with the sober
work that sometimes goes on there. Time
and again, the chairman of a deadlocked
directorate has called time out for a
drink before lunch and the heated dis-
cussion resumes over a table for four
or six or. more. In this congenial atmos-
phere a meeting of the minds has often
been achieved on some question that may
have tangled the whole morning session.

The main restaurant, which seats 125
at a time and averages 600 meals daily,
is a prime spot for combining business
with pleasure. Fresh-cut flowers bright-
en the tables; a six-piece string ensemble,
directed by the former first concert mas-
ter of the Staedtische Oper (Berlin City
Opera), will play almost anything you
request, from swing to symphony; the
head waiter is multi-lingual and brings
to his job 35 years’ experience in hostel-
ries throughout two continents, from New
York’s Hotel Astor to Berlin’s Kaiserhof.

Most of the tables seat four. But
there’s a table for twelve to accomodate
an entire directorate — the chairman
and his three colleagues, plus four sec-
retaries and four interpreters.

ALLIED SECRETARIAT

The real fixture of the ACA Building
is the Allied Secretariat. Members of
the several directorates, together with
their staffs, come and go as their work —
load dictates, in much the same way as
a congressman attends his committee
meetings on Capitol Hill. Their regular
offices are elsewhere. But the Allied Sec-
retariat does its daily work in the ACA
Building itself.

(Continued on page 27)

--- Page 11 ---
2,250,000 Expellees f
Into US Zone Under Pour-

In a Europe which has always had its
share of minorities with their special in-
terests and allegiances, Hitler did not
have too much difficulty in reminding the
German minorities living in Central Eu-
ropean and Balkan countries that their
pimary allegiance was to Germany. These
groups of ethnic Germans (Volksneut-
sche) have lived for generations in Hung-
ary, Poland, Rumania, etc. The Volks-
deutsche retained their Germanic charac-
teristics and traditions including the use
of the German language which, depending
on the country they lived in, was reduc-
ed to a dialect in most cases not under-
standable to the average German.

The presence of German minorities in
European countries served the Nazis well
in establishing a cause for interferingin
the internal policies of these countries on
behalf of the Volksdeutsche, under the
guise of protecting those of the German
blood from the “inhumane” treatment
imposed on them. That was during the
years when being a German or of the

German blood meant being one
of the privileged. The German
minorities conveniently forgot that

they were citizens of Yugoslavia and

wer Program
Minorities from Neighbor Countries. Group Poses Unexpected Problet

hoslavakia Being Absorbed —
or Resettlement of German

HU

Hungary and Poland as were their fath :
and their fathers’ fathers before them, |
and over-whelmingly accepted Reich citi-
zenship with all that it implied. Their
young men served enthusiastically in all
formations of the Wehrmacht including
the Waffen SS. Those who remained
at home assumed important positions and
materially benefited from the assets of
less fortunate minority groups which
were liquidated. The Volksdeutsche got
rich and fat and powerful. Their enthus-
iasm for National Socialism is born out
by the fact that the percentage of mem-
bership in the Nazi party among the
Volksdeutsche in the countries where
they lived was higher than among the
Germans or the Austrians. Yes, the
Volksdeutsche really climbed on the
bandwagon.

Times change, however, and so do the
fortunes of war; the fate of wrong guess-
ers is hard.

German minorities have constituted will-
ing and effective ‘fifth columns” in al-
most every country in Europe in which
they have resided. What is to prevent
them, should there be another upsurg-
ence of German aggressive nationalism

--- Page 12 ---
and militarism, to serve the pan-German
cause again? It was principally to pre-
vent such an eventuality that the “Big
Three” at Potsdam provided for the or-
derly movement und resettlement of Ger-
man minorities from Poland, Czechoslo-
vakia, Austria and Hungary on an “or-
ganized and humane” basis. The other
inescapable factor leading to the policy
of eliminating German minorities from
these four countries, where their disloy-
alty to the state was flagrant, is the
almost absolute hatred the native popu-
lations developed for the Volksdeutsche.

RESETTLEMENT DIFFICULT

The uprooting of six and a half million
people from their native lands, their ex-
propriation and their resettlement in the
midst of a foreign and often hostile popu-
lace is a harsh measure, even though this
resettlement is by Allied policy organized
and humane. At best, the results are that
expellee families are accepted only when
intact, ill persons are not moved until
recuperated, the expellees are allowed
to bring with them up to 1,000 Reichs-
marks per individual and during the win-
ter months they are transported in heat-
ed rolling stock. From an objective point
of view, however, in order to eliminate
all possible causes of friction in the
future among the nations of Europe, the
resettlement of German minorities be-
comes merely a preventative measure
both justifiable and desirable on the pre-
mise that it will contribute to keeping
the peace. Moreover, as the Volksdeut-
sche shared with their kin in the Reich
all the fruits of German victories during
the years the rest of Europe was slaving
under the Nazi yoke, so they should now
share in the burden of defeat.

At Potsdam only the right of the four
nations to expel the German minorities
was laid down. It was the Allied Control
Council in Berlin which decided on the
maximum number of expellees to be ac-
cepted into Germany and how they were
to be prorated among the four zones

of occupation. According to the decision
of the Control Council, 20 November 1945,
the US Zone of Germany is to accept
1,750,000 Sudeten Volksdeutsche from Cze-
choslovakia and 500,000 Swabian Volks-
deutsche from Hungary. The British Zone
is to accept 1,500,000 Volksdeutsche from
Poland. The Soviet Zone is to receive
2,000,000 Volksdeutsche from Poland and
500,000 from Czechoslovakia. The French
French Zone will accept 150,000 Volks-
deutsche from Austria.

Prior to the completion of plans for
an orderly, organized and humane move-
ment, however, many Volksdeutsche fled
from the Eastern areas in which they
were living when the Soviet Army was
advancing through these areas. In almost
all cases these people were unable to
bring even their most essential belong-
ings and marched on foot or in ox-carts
towards the haven Bavaria and parts of
Western Germany afforded. The net re-
sult of this is the presence of many
Volksdeutsche in the US Zone who do
not belong here.

MOVEMENT BEGUN IN JANUARY

The movement of expellees into the
US Zone as directed and planned by the
Control Council was officially begun dur-
ing the latter part of January. Although
due to severe weather the rate of flow
was slight in the first three months of
the movement, at present 10,000 expel-
lees arrive in the US Zone every twenty-
four hours, and caring for these people
has become the most critical problem
facing the authorities in the US Zone.

The primary responsibility for the inte-
gration of expellees into the German
community rests with the German ad-
ministration, and the German officials
are responsible for establishing such or-
ganization as is required to carry out
this program successfully. In accordance
with the above policy it was the Council
of Minister Presidents (Laenderrat) who
made the allocation of expellees among
the three Laender in the US Zone. The

--- Page 13 ---
two and one-fourth million expellees were
divided on the following basis: Bavaria
is to accept 50 percent (1,125,000) of
the two and one-fourth million expellees,
Greater Hesse is to accept 27 percent
(607,500) and Wuerttemberg-Baden is to
accept 23 percent (513,500).

It is estimated that not more than
15 percent of the refugees arriving are
men capable of work, 25 percent chil-
dren under 15 years, 15 percent are people
over 60 years and 45 percent are women
between the ages of 15 and 60 years.
The necessity of incorporating these in-
dividuals into the existing communities
poses major problems of planning and
organization which are intensified by the
reluctance of the expellees on one hand
and the native population on the other
hand to accept the presence of each other,
sametimes under the same roof sharing
the same stove. Efforts to promote bet-
ter understanding by local residents have
been undertaken and German officials are
doing a conscientious job meeting the
needs of the new-comers within the limi-
tations of resources available.

LAND PROCESSING

Upon arrival at a distribution point
in a Land, the expellees are screened
by means of a modified Fragebogen and
in some cases are classified according to
skills and trades. From here, usually
after ten days in temporary quarters,
the expellees are moved into the local
communities to which they are allocated.
Each of the three Laender in the US
Zone has worked out plans for alloca-
ting expellees to local communities on the
basis of a preliminary housing survey
and on estimates of capacity submitted
by local officials. Generally speaking,
these people are allocated to the rural
countries (Landkreise) in the US Zone.
Stuttgart, Frankfurt, Kassel, Ulm, Wies-
baden and other principal urban centers
were declared closed to the expellees.
Thus the physical burden of caring for
these people falls on the small rural

10

areas and in particular on the local com-
munities (Gemeinden). Although the over-
all planning for the reception, care and
assimilation of the expellees is under-
taken on a zonal level, each Kreis is on its
own in planning for its share of expel-
lees. The Kreis public welfare office
is responsible for the coordination of
activities on behalf of the expellees to
provide emergency housing, medical in-
spection, distribution to the various Ge-
meinden, employment, etc.

MAJOR PROBLEMS

The following seem to be the major
problems confronting the German ad-
ministration in their efforts to integrate
the expellees into the German com-
munity:

a. Insufficient housing, due mainly to
shortages of building materials and also
to a haphazard housing survey. (This is
being met in part by the sale of surplus
tentage from US stocks to the German.)

b. Insufficient food.

ce. Discord between.the native popula-
tion and the expellee.

d. The presence in the US Zone of a
high percentage of Volksdeutsche other
than Sudetens and Swabians, who have
entered illegally and are now utilizing
the food and housing intended for bona
fide expellees.

UNAUTHORIZED MOVEMENTS

The problem of persons entering the
US Zone of Germany outside of author-
ized organized movements is reaching
serious proportions. These persons fall
into several categories:

a. Individuals fleeing from political
ideologies or towards apparently better
economic opportunities in the US Zone.

b. Volksdeutsche from Hungary and
Czechoslovakia, who eventually would
be expelled to either the US Zone or
the Soviet Zone, voluntarily moving in
the hope of finding better opportunities
if they reach their destination at once.

(Continued on page 24) '

--- Page 14 ---
Comprehensive System of Social Benefits First Instituted in 1880's
Has Absorbed Many Private Insurance Agencies in Course of Growth

The German social insurance system
was instituted upon Bismarck’s recom-
mendation during the 1880’s. Bismarck’s
objective was to create a stopgap against
the growing tide of liberalism and social-
ism which was then inundating Germany.
He may have failed to accomblish his
immediate objective, but he did help to
lay a foundation for a comprehensive soc-
ial insurance system which has long been
considered a model the world over. In
the course of its growth and development
it absorbed many existing, privately or-
ganized sickness and accident insurance
systems. Despite a number of inadequa-
cies and despite its somewhat complicated
structure, it is looked upon with favor
by the German people. Although far
reaching reorganization is at present de-
manded from many quarters, no one con-
siders abolishing the system as such.

SICKNESS INSURANCE

Structurally the sickness insurance
scheme is made up of 4500 self-admister-
ed, mutual sickness insurance funds.
Some are organized by law for localities
and are called either an Ortskrankenkas-
se (Local Sickness Fund) or a Land-
krankenkasse (Rural Sickness Fund).
Some were operating as mutual sick

funds before the Reich system was a-

dopted and are called Ersatzkrankenkas-
sen (substitute sickness funds); most of
them are organized by enterprises em-
ploying over 200 workers and are called
Betriebskrankenkasse (establishment sick-

11

ness funds); a few are guild sickness
funds organized by crafts. The Reich law
permitted such independent establishment
and craft agencies because some were
already operating at the time the law was
adopted. In many respects these served
as a model for the legal sickness funds.

In case of sickness, benefits are paid
for a period ranging from 26 to 39 weeks
per year, equal to one half of wages lost
for the insured and reduced benefits for
his family. Medical services, including
doctors’ care hospital costs and medicines,
are provided for the duration of the ill-
ness.

Old age, invalidity, and survivors in-
surance (Invalidenversicherung) was or-
ganized for wage earners of all income
groups during the 1880’s whereas such
insurance was first provided for salaried
employees (Angestelltenversicherung) in
1911. In 1923 a special insurance system
(Knappschaft) with better benefits was
provided for miners. The Reich railways
have a separate insurance agency
(Reichsbahnversicherungsanstalt) for
workers covered by this type of insur-
ance, but cover their salaried employees
in the general salaried employees insur-
ance. The Reich Post Office, on the other
hand, covers both wage earners and sal-
aried employees in the regular insurance
agencies. Seafaring enterprises are cover-
ed by a special agency called the Seekas-
se. Civil servants (Beamte) are not cov-
ered in social insurance, but the larger
part of public administration employees
are not civil servants.

--- Page 15 ---
Accident insurance was instigated by
a law of 1884 and was administered by
semi-public ‘corporations (Berufsgenos-
senschaften) of which there were 64 for
various industrial branches and 28 for
rural enterprises in as many geographical
areas. Accident insurance for employees
of smaller communal entities was ad-
ministered by Communal Accident Insur-
ance Unions, of which there were 23.
Land and Reich Agencies usually had
Executive Authorities for Accident. In-
surance who paid benefits directly from
budgetary funds.

Unemployment Insurance was introduc-
ed in 1927 and was administered by the
Labor Offices; thus it was contingent
upon the inability of the Labor Office to
place the beneficiary in a job.

INSURANCE RATES

Employees’ contributions for the vari-
ous types of social insurance total ap-
proximately 10 percent of their income,
with the employer contributing an addi-
tional 10 percent to this sum. For sick-
ness insurance, contributions range from
4 percent to 6 percent, depending upon
the requirements iof each individual mu-
tual agency, which makes assessments
sufficient to meet required benefits. Two-
thirds of the contributions are paid by
employee and one-third by the employer.
Old age, invalidity and survivors’ insur-
ance contributions total 5.6 percent, paid
‘equally by employer and employee.

Accident Insurance Associations assess
their member employers on a scale suf-
ficient to meet the required benefits,
which vary from about 4 percent to 8.76
percent of total wages, graduated for each
employer according to a risk scale devel-
‘oped from accident experience. The aver-
age contribution for accident insurance,
which is paid entirely by the employer,
runs between 2 and 3 percent of total
wages. Unemployment insurance amounts
to 6.5 percent of covered wages and is
paid half by the employee and half by the

12

employer. Special rates are prescribed
for voluntarily insured employees in sick-
ness, old age, invalidity and survivors in-
surance and for employers in accident
insurance.

Collections for sickness insurance, in-
validity insurance and unemployment in-
surance are made by the sickness fund
in the employer’s area, whereas accident
insurance contributions are made ‘directly
to the association, which may operate for
one branch of industry throughout the
country.

Enrollment in the sickness insurance
scheme is compulsory for all employed
persons except those earning over 3,600
RM annually. Workers in the prescribed
employment status, with minor excep-
tions, are compulsorily insured for old
age, invalidity and survivors benefits, re-
gardless of their annual earnings. Sala-
ried employees are covered only if they
earn less than 7,200 RM per year. Both
of these two categories may continue
voluntarily if once insured. The same
basis applies to unemployment insur-
ance and a similar one for accident in-
surance, except that certain additional
circumstances, such as an injury incur-
red while saving a life or helping a legal
officer, qualify the individual. The ac-
cident must be work-connected, but em-
ployees of all wage and salary ranges are
covered.

INSURANCE BENEFITS

Sickness insurance benefits afford the
insured medical service, hospital care,
medical supplies in part and 50 percent
of wage loss during periods of sickness
not exceeding between 26 and 39 weeks
per year, depending upon the provisions
of each individual mutual sickness insur-

‘ance agency. Reduced benefits of the

same types are provided for the other
members of the insured person’s family.
Insurance is not based upon length of
coverage, although usually a short wait-

ing period is required.

(Continued on page 25)

--- Page 16 ---
Two New Decrees

Further steps towards elim-
inating the evils of Nazism
were taken recently when
OMGUS approved two laws
for the US Zone aimed at
punishment of those who
went unpunished under the
Nazi regime. These laws,
proposed by the Laenderra;
will bring to justice indi:
viduals who committed atrgty
ities in the persecution f
those in disfavor for racial
religious or political re

Nazis who committed indiv-
idual and group atrocities
and war crimes because of
political, racial or religious
prejudices. This law re-
moves any defense based on
anki azi laws, decrees or regula-

ions and the benefits of the
atute of limitations in the
secution of major or min-
r crimes, particularly
e connected with atroc-

| ities and persecutions on
x Pelitidal, racial or religious grounds, that
ii Hose

afford redress and rehabi punished under the Nazi regime.
unjustly persecuted and convéctéd provides that such crimes “shall be
Nazi Courts and the Gestapo. prosecuted where principles of justice,

General Clay, in commenting on the in particular the principle of equality of
two laws, expressed satisfication that the aff before the law, demand atonement.”
German people now had the necessary OMGUS officials, who have studied
legal authority to redress many of the the laws as they were presented by the
wrongs perpetrated by individual Nazis, German Ministers, point out that many
not only as to matters of unjust and crimes of the most vicious nature, such
untrue record but by actual prosecutions as deliberate murder of defenseless per-
of those who had escaped the conse- sons, burning of synagogues with intent
quences of criminal acts under the Nazi to kill those who had fled there for pro-
cloak. tection, and plundering and looting of

Those laws, General Clay explained, shops and stores, were not punished on
with the sanctions and economic punish- the grounds that such excesses were “ex-
ments provided by the law for the De- cusable because of the deeply-rooted ha-
nazification of Germany, should make it tred of devoted Nazis of those of the Jew-
possible for the German people to ferret ish faith.” Illustrations were cited con-

out and appropriately deal with every cerning happenings in Germany after the
type of Nazi who contributed in any killing of a consular official in Paris by

way to the Hitler regime. an insane youth. For revenge, the offic-

Under the “Law Concerning the Punish- ials said, the SA was ordered to burn
ment of a National Socialistic Criminal,” synagogues, destroy property and told
German courts may bring to trial violent (Continued on page 26)

13

--- Page 17 ---
General

LAENDERRAT AND OMGUS DRAFT
NEW EXPORT-IMPORT PROGRAM

Vigorous efforts to revive permissable
foreign trade will be made by the US
Zone in Germany through an export-im-
port program now being drafted by the
Laenderrat with the assistance of OMGUS
officials.

The overall long range foreign trade
program now being developed by the
Economics Committee of the German
Council of States is of particular interest
to the US Zone, since War Department
funds have been withdrawn for all im-
ports into the American area except for
food and petroleum, oil and lubricants.
It is now necessary for the industry of
the Zone to push exports in order to
develop dollar credits for the importation
iof raw materials essential to the produc-
tion of the products Germany will be
allowed to manufacture.

To date, the German foreign trade pic-
ture has been pessimistic. Since the end
of the war, total imports, including food-
stuffs, into the Zone have amounted to
over 100,000,000, compared with exports
amounting to less than 5,000,000 dollars.
Imports for the most part have consisted
of food, other agricultural products, seeds
and fertilizers. Exports from the zone
have consisted primarily of raw materials
such as lumber and hops.

Finished products have supplied only
a small percentage of export so far. Ger-
man economists are very anxious to
change this situation and to get into the
exportation, of products requiring a large
amount of labor .

14

To date the total volume of commer-
cial transactions has been insignificant in
relation, to the requirements of the econ-
omy in the US Zone due to the numerous
obstacles that still impede the normal
flow of interzonal and foreign trade.
Among these problems are the inability
of US Zone Germans to negotiate di-
rectly with foreign buyers ; the prohibition
against trading with neutral countries;
the condition of German currency and
the fact that the processing industry of
the Zone is unable to operate to any great
extent because of la¢k of raw materials,
and coal.

EFFORT TO REVIVE EXPORTS

Meanwhile, efforts are being made to
revive exports from the US Zone. Ar-
rangements have been made for a per-
manent exhibit in Berlin of commodities
produced in the Zone. This centralized
display, due to open, sometime this month,
is expected to assist’ foreign, buyers in-
terested in German products by eliminat-
ing the necessity of a trip through the
Zone to find what they are seeking.

At the same time, the Export-Import
Subcommittee of the Laenderrat Econ-
omics Committee is pushing for the adop-
tion of a scheme whereby toy production
in the zone would be exported to the
US. Toys, particularly the expensive
type, were among the important articles
manufactured in the American Zone,

--- Page 18 ---
but at present the lack of necessary metal
represents a problem for this industry.

OMGUS already has given export pri-
ority to two items produced in the Zone,
ceramics and textiles, particularly the ex-
pensive types of the latter which require
considerable labor in their production.
Other products are expected to be added
to the export priority list.

A program providing for the importa-
tion of from 10,000 to 50,000 tons of
cotton from US commodity credit cor-
poration stocks is being concluded for
the zone by OMGUS. This is in addition
to the 10,000 tons initially imported from
US surplus stocks several months ago.
A new 10,000 ton shipment is expected
to arrive in Germany in July. Under the
terms of this program, cotton mills in
the Zone will process about 60 percent
of the total imports into high-priced
textiles for reexport. The remainder will
be processed for internal consumption
in Germany. The cotton will be paid for
by proceeds from the sales of finished
goods.

US Aid to German Food Supply

Nearly two slices of the four and a
half slices of bread each German has
been getting in his daily rations has come
directly from US imports and releases
from US stocks, according to an OMGUS
report covering food supplies delivered
to Germany during the nine-month per-
iod 1 August 1945 to 1 May 1946.

The United States provided a total of
507,674 net long tons of food for Ger-
man civilian consumption during that
period. The 122,312 tons of wheat and
rye and 243,264 tons of flour furnished
by the US were sufficient, OMGUS of-
ficials computed, to maintain the bread
and nahrmittel rations in the US Zone
for a little more than four months.

Three sources furnished the food which
the American authorities provided to
bolster the German rations when the in-

15

digenous supplies were inadequate. A
large part of the bread grains and flour
was released from the US share of
SHAEF stocks. Imports direct from the
United States began flowing through the
port of Bremen in February. The balance
came from excess army stocks.

Gift Parcels for Germans

OMGUS has announced a one-way par-
cel post service for gift parcels from the
United States to the US Zone, Germany
effective 1 June 1946. Service to the
US Sector of Berlin is not included.

These gifts parcels will be limited to
one parcel per week from one sender to
one adressee with contents limited to
non-perisable foodstuffs, clothing, soap,
lawful medical supplies and similar items
for the relief of human suffering. The
parcels will also be limited to 5 kilo-
grams in weight and have a size limit
of 180 centimeters, length and girth com-
bined. Parcels will be subject to regular
German customs inspection; however, or-
dinary articles intended to relieve human
suffering will normally be duty free. Par-
cels undeliverable because of insufficient
or incorrect addresses will be turned
over to German welfare agencies for dis-
tribution.

Review of MG Court Decisions

A clemency board of three or more
Amercians will be formed in the near
future in order to review all prison sen-
‘tences which have been meted out by
MG and German courts in the US Zone
since the beginning of the occupation.
In Berlin, the board will review only
the sentences imposed by US MG courts.
In Bremen, the board will likewise re-
view sentences of MG courts unless the
appropriate British authorities request
the board to review cases thet were dec-
ided by German courts.

The commission has the power to grant
pardon, parole: or amnesty. The Deputy

--- Page 19 ---
Military Governor reserves the right to
retain certain cases or types of cases for
his personal consideration.

The board is to be composed of a law-
yer, psychiatrist and a prison official.
As soon as they have been named to the
board, the three members are to work out
their plan of operations and to submit it
to the Legal Division of US Military Gov-
ernment for approval. In its operations,
the board is to pay special attention to
those cases in which sentences of more
than one year have been imposed.

Procedure in cases of appeal where
petition for review is entered shall con-
tinue to) be in the hands of the appropri-
ate military authorities. The commuta-
tion of death sentences will still be re-
served to the Commanding General of
the US Forces. ©

CARE Package Program

An agreement was signed recently by
the Deputy Military Governor and Col-
onel Richard W. Bonnevalle, representa-
tive of CARE (Cooperative for American
Remittances to Europe) which authorizes
the importation into the US Zone of Ger-
many of individual food packages for
specifically named indivisuals as well as
for general relief purposes.

In the operation ‘of the CARE program
an individual in the US may pay the
sum of 15 dollars to the CARE organiza-
tion and be assured that a food package
will either reach his relative or friend
in Germany or that his 15 dollars will
be returned. The packages which will be
initially distributed are US Army surplus
10-in-1 rations containing 30 pounds of
food.

The program will be administered in
the US Zone under Military Government
supervision by the Central German Com-
mittee for Voluntary Relief Supplies.
This is a zone-wide committee, organized
under the Laenderrat and composed of
representatives of the Evangelical Hilfs-

16

werk, the Caritas Verband, the Arbeiter-
wohlfahrts and the Red Cross. It isalso
responsible for the allocation and proper
distribution of voluntary relief supplies
to persons and areas of greatest need.

This package program is not related to
one-way parcel post service from the US to
the US Zone of Germany which has re-
cently been authorized. It is anticipated
that the two programs will supplement
each other and that the result will be
a great increase in the amount of food
received in the US Zone of Germany
from the US.

US Books for Bavarian Schools

Over 20 tons of textbooks printed for
the United States Army’s information and
education program were turned over on
8 June to the Bavarian Ministry for use
as supplementary material in schools and
teacher training institutions of Germany.
Thie books, which are written in English,
will cover more than 200 subjects includ-
ing agriculture, trade, business, and’ gen:
eral education. .

For those students sufficiently versed
in English, the books will be put to im-
mediate use. The books will also be
used as sources in the preparation of new
German texts. Composed as the text-
books are of some of the most modern
educational books in America, Military
Government officers said they ‘should
contribute toward democratization, an
element long lacking in German schools.
The books will be drawn from I and E
surplus stocks. :

US Aids Ruhr Coal Production

OMGUS announced recently that it.has
agreed to assist British authorities: in
recruiting coal miners from the US Zone
for the Ruhr coal mines.

This recruiting is to. begin immediately.
The actual recruiting of men for the

--- Page 20 ---
Ruhr coal mines will be the responsibility
of German authorities. During normal
times in Germany, coal miners for the
Ruhr were recruited from the area which
is now included in the British and the
US Zones. In preparation for initiating
this recruiting program, a representative
of each of the three Laender Labor Min:
istries and a trade union representative
from each of the Laender visited the Ruhr
to see for themselves the conditions and
problems of mining labor.

US Military Government authorities as
well as German officials and trade un-
ionists recognize that production of coal
is vital to all Zones of Germany and wish
to assist the British in increasing coal
production by assisting in the recruit-
ment of required manpower to staff the
mines.

Berlin Elections

General elections in Berlin are to be
held in October, according to instructions
given the Allied Kommandantura by the
Coordinating Committee of the Allied
Control Counciel,

The Kommandantura was asked to
proceed immediately with the work of
drafting a provisional constitution for
Berlin which will be followed in election
procedure. For this work, it was told to
make use of appropriate. German agen-
cies in. the city.

Transport Facilities

Approximately 9,000 freight cars are
available daily for the rail lines in the
US Zone, the German Railway Admin-
istration in Frankfurt has disclosed. Each
has a capacity of 10 tons.

Part of the transportation load is being
taken by the waterways system, the rail
office also stated. Approximate tonnage
carried by boats is still unavailable in-
asmuch as the waterways program is

17,

being extended. Shortage of vehicles,
spare parts and fuel prevents any great
amount of transportation of goods by
trucks.

The entire commercial transportation
program for carriers. by rail, water and
highway is being coordinated by the: traf-
fic board and the directorate for Zonal
traffic, which have headquarters in
Frankfurt.

Trade Union Federations

Amalgamation of similar ‘industrial
trade unions within each Zone and feder-
ation of the various trade. unions on a
Zonal basis have been authorized by a
directive adopted recently by the Control
Council of the Allied Control Authority.

Directive No. 31, titled “Principles Con-
cerning the Establishment of Federations
of Trade Unions,” approved on a Zonal
level the formation of industrial trade
union amalgamations and federations as
they are being built up from the com-
munity and Kreis levels through the Land
levels in the US Zone.

Inter-Zonal Trade

Facilitation of inter-zonal trade was
the primary purpose of a two day con-
ference between German economic of-
ficials of the American and Soviet Zones
of Germany which was held at the of-
fices of the Central Administration for
Trade in the Russian Zone, located in
the Russian Sector of Berlin, on 13-14
June.

The conference was called at the in-
vitation of German economic officials of
the Russian Zone. The economic min-
isters of the three laender, Dr. Ludwig
Erhard of Bavaria, Dr. Rudolph Mueller
of Greater Hesse and Dr. Heinrich Koeh-
ler of Wuerttemberg-Baden headed the
delegation from the US Zone.

--- Page 21 ---
German Reactions

Anti-Fascists Address Appeal =
To Refurning War Veterans

Most Berlin papers have carried an the lack of sufficient organization of the
appeal of the anti-fascist: parties asking parties.”
that all possible aid be given to returning According to Der Morgen, the only
war veterans. party which didn’t have to carry out a

“,... A special bureau should be set real campaign was the Christian Democ-
up in every labor office,” advises the ratic Union because it was sure of the
appeal. This office would take care of old supporters of the Zentrum or Bavar-
returning servicemen, provide them with ian People Party. In reality, claims the
jobs or retraining courses, though before paper, the CDU lost ground in their
taking jobs they should be granted a two “Bavarian stronghold” by the fact that
week’s leave to settle their own affairs. the other three parties increased their

“.,.. The returning servicemen should proportion of votes in relation to pre-
be made to feel that his troubles are vious elections.
understood not only by his family, but The LDP organ also observes that the
also by every office and authority,” de- party gained ground in various places and
clares the call. it therefore can’t be overlooked in polit-

In printing this appeal the Telegraf, ical life.
licensed British organ, adds a note to

the effect that the president of the SPD
did not sign the appeal. “If the commit- Comments of SPD Leader

tee continues to disregard the SPD, we A DPD dispatch in Der Tagesspiegel
will be unable in the future to publish cites a recent speech delivered by SPD
its statements,” declares the paper. leader Kurt Schumacher declaring that
land reform is necessary, but that it

Election Results should be carried through reasonably and

should not be dealt with in the manner
that it was done in the eastern zone. He
further stated that some big estates should
be maintained in order to provide seeds and
grains, though the present form of large
poperty does not suit present Germany.

In an editorial on the results of the
Stadtkreis elections in the American
Zone Der Morgen, the Liberal Democratic
Party organ, observes that they gave no
clear picture.

“Pleasant result of the voting,” states

the paper, “was the fact that many peo- Referring to the church Schumacher
ple participated, thus abandonning their stated that the clergy should see to it
aversion against expressing their polit- that its followers are not mislead. “We
ical opinions.” cannot admit that the most unimportant

“Negative result of the voting,” con- clergyman is at the same time a party

tinues the paper, “was that it proved secretary,” the dispatch quotes Schu-

18

--- Page 22 ---
macher. “We respect every religion ...
but we cannot allow the interests of big
capitalism to. spread under this cloak.”
Speaking to. the Allied Forces, Schu-
macher asked that they leave the Rhine
and Ruhr with Germany, stating that the
Social Democrats are ready to share in
an international economic control of these
areas, but the Germans must be allowed
to take part in this control. “German
economy should have a share in the
production of these areas,” he said.

The Church and Politics

In its lead editorial, Der Tagesspiegel,
US licensed Berlin newspaper, recently
attacked the church for its stand on
politics.

The paper first noted the letter of a
Protestant group to American Military
Government protesting against denazifi-
cation.

“,.It is not unpleasant that there
are various tendencies,” the editorial
says, “but we think it right to raise a
warning voice inasmuch as tendencies are
coming to the fore which once before
were disastrous for the church... and
which lead to dangerous political situa-
tions...”

“When a Protestant bishop,” continu-
es the paper, “addresses Christians in
England instead of German Christians
and his words are seized upon by Ger-
man nationalists he should think twice
about what he says.”

Admitting that the church doesn’t nec-
essarily need to confine itself to purely
religious matters, the paper claims that
it should stay out of party politics. “...
When a bishop claims that one leaves the
German people starving he almost takes
to lying,” declares the editorial, adding
that “he should know that the Allies

do not leave the German people to starve
but provide for their food.”

Quoting from aj pastoral letter of a
southern German archbishop who stated
that “one cannot treat successfully Ger-
man steel nor German mentality by
force,” the paper declares that “when
one regards the historical facts of the
past years one cannot arrive at the deci-
sion that at present the German people
are treated forcefully by the Allies”

“A German clergyman,” adds the pa-
per, “should not speak of German mental-
ity until he succeeds in making the con-
sciousness of right, justice, and truth part
of it. And he shouldn’t speak of German
steel until one is no longer tempted of
thinking in a militarist way on the claim
that Hitler’s army fought for people and
country. That the church group has suc-
ceeded in glorifying the German mili-
tarist tradition at the time of the Nurem-
burg trials proves its lack of understand-
ing, in the face of which one should
consider whether it should not confine
clergy to their mere religious tasks.”

Big and Little Nazis

According to Radio Berlin “too often
the big Nazis get away while the little
ones are caught.” To play this up the
radio cited a Siiddeutsche Zeitung edi-
torial which claimed that numerous
“guests” from other parts of Germany
have settled in the Bavarian mountains.
“They are, of course, all non-party mem-.
bers who are taking a rest now in the
mountain cabins and other quiet places
after the political exhaustion of the past
years, or who on account of their imma-
culate Fragebogens, partly owing to their
top knowledge of the English language,
are holding profitable positions
quoted the radio.

19

--- Page 23 ---
(Dress and RadioComments

Eisenhower Emphasizes Urgent Need
for Selective Service Extension

US Army Chief of Staff, General
Dwight D. Eisenhower, in a special radio
program marking the second anniversary
of D-Day, called for the same “effort and
sacrifice to establish peace” as won the
war. :

“I shall never tire of paying tribute
to the American fighting man,” Eisen-
hower declared, “but the job he began
and carried through to its combat con-
clusion is not yet complete. Only a firm
and just peace throughout the world can
bring an end to our endeavor. Victory
won in blood and sacrifice demands of us
effort and sacrifice to establish the
peace.”

He said that selective service in the
United States is mecessary to give the
Army adequate manpower to cope with
a “task, vast in its geographical extent,
complex in the human relations involved.”

Three days earlier in a talk before the
National Convention of the Reserve Of-
ficers Association, Eisenhower emphasiz-
ed the urgent need for extension of selec-
tive service and declared that the United
States must be in a position to “guard
well its own security” until the United
Nations is able to guarantee interna-
tional security.

General Eisenhower said, “We need
a deeper realization by all our people
that the continuing peace, of the world
depends in large measure on the strength
of the United States and its ability to

carry out its international commitments.

20

While our occupation duties in enemy
countries are the most tangible and vis-
ible of these tasks and require the larg-
est part of our manpower, a balanced
military force with both police and of-
fensive capacity must be maintained in
a troubled world ... the United States
cannot be the champion of freedom and the
bulwark of democracy if it stands help-
less and naked before the world.”

Pointing out that “a final peace, satis-
factory to every nation, has not yet been
written,” he added, “Our strenghhasno
other purpose than to assure that these
treaties will be written in accord with
those principles which more than 300,000
Americans gave their lives.”

General Eisenhower asserted that “As
progress is realized along the path of
organized international cooperation, ’the
United States will be able “gradually to
reduce the armed forces of our country
and so avoid the staggering costs of their
maintaince.” He added; “Growing ef-
fectiveness of the United Nations will
logically be accompanied by step-by-step
reduction in resources we are now com-
pelled to devote to our security.”

FOOD RATIONING

Compulsory food rationing is neither
necessary nor practical to bring about
maximum aid to, the starving peoples of
Europe and Asia, Walter F. Straub, di-
rector of the Agriculture Department’s

--- Page 24 ---
emergency food program, said in a radio
forum discussion of rationing:

“All of us certainly want to do every-
thing possible to prevent starvation,”
Straub said. “However, I don’t believe
compulsory food rationing is either nec-
essary or practical to gain our objective.
In fact the cry for rationing as being the
indispensable answer to world famine
has already been proven wrong. The De-
partment of Agriculture is now complet-
ing the greatest movement of food grains
for overseas shipment ever achieved by
any nation, and without rationing.”

NEW AMERICAN PROGRAM

American policy in Germany is about
to, get a thorough overhauling according
to Wallace R. Deuel of the New York
Daily News. “The United States,” Deuel
says, “almost certainly will make a new
attempt to, break down the barriers which
now separate the four occupation zones.
America also, will press for the setting
up of effective central administrative
agencies for dealing with social and econ-
omic problems.

“Probable further items in the’ new
American program... general drastic
revision of economic policy ‘to make it
possible for the Reich to become self-
supporting at the level of an endurable
standard of living . .. final decision and
announcement of German reparations ob-
ligations to eliminate this element of
economic and psychological uncertainly
in the situation... speediest possible
winding up of war crimes trials ... re-
consideration of “war guilt” propaganda
now being addressed to the German peo-
(ple as a whole... improvement in the
caliber and conduct of American forces
of occupation and civilian officials ... .
restudy of the American program of de-
nazification ... probable tightening up
of the program in certain spheres where
the citizens’ political views are of great
importance, as in press, radio and other
media of public information.”

21

DP‘S AND REPATRIATION

A new refugee tide crowds US camps,
writes Dana Adams Schmidt of The
New York Times. The estimate that the
emigration of 100,000 would clear the
western occupation zones of Germany
of displaced Jewish persons, is rapidly
being put out of date by a new infiltra-
tion from Poland into the United States
Zone, authoritative United States Army
sources have disclosed.

The hopes of the Army and the United
Nations Relief and Rehabilitation that
warm weather would induce the displaced
persons to go home in large numbers
appear ‘to have been smashed, although it
does seem to have stimulated other per-
sons, most of them Jews, to leave Po-
land.

In face of the situation, the article
says, G-5 is now working on a proposed
directive that would declare repatria-
tion to be at an end. This would clear
the way for the Army to press for
emigration of displaced persons of all
kinds to potential new homes, such as
Latin America and France, and to. or-
gamize displaced persons employment
more widely. The latter hitherto has been
held ba'ck by the belief that the unem-
ployed displaced persons would be more
interested in repatriation than with jobs.

FREEDOM OF INFORMATION

Freedom of information is “a basic free-
dom” which cannot be over emphasized,
editorials in The New York Times; and
the San Francisco Chronicle said, com-
menting on the recent discussion of the
United Nation’s Economic and Social
Council during which the Russian dele-
gate expressed apprehension lest empha-
sis on freedom of information might less-
en the attention given to other prob-
lems before the Council.

“The relative merits of freedom of
information and some other freedoms
came up... in a debate . . . between the
Soviet delegate, Nikolai J. Feonov. and

--- Page 25 ---
the American delegate, John G. Winant,”
the Times editorial read. “Mr Feonov
seemed to fear that if freedom of speech,
press and radio were emphasized less at-
tention would be paid to ‘questions of
the defense of the right of minorities and
elimination of discrimination, especially
on the basis of race and sex.’ He charged
that the end of war had brought no im-
provement in these respects, ‘even in
some of the highly developed countries,
members of the United Nations.’ Mr.
Winant did not contend that the United
States was now entirely free of such dis-
criminations, though he could justifiably
have urgued that we had made progress
during and since the war.

“Tn a country which has a free press
and general freedom of information the
individual, race or group can always ap-
peal to public opinion. In such a country
even government is relatively powerless
without the support of public opinion,
and certainly cannot long stand against
it. If we look back over our own history
we can see that abuses have first been
‘exposed in the press, then discussed in
the legislatures, finally dealt with by the
law. Indeed, so familiar is this process
that we can hardly think of any other.

“In the wider field of United Nations,
public opinion becomes of even greater
importance. The Economic and Social
Council can recommend enactment of na-
tional laws in defense of the various free-
doms, but it can do no more. An Inter-
national bill of rights will come, when
it does come, out of peoples of many
nations demanding it of their own gov-
ernments. And the basic essential, to
make such demand wise and. effective,
will be an unrestricted flow of informa-
tion.”

The Chronicle said, “Let us assume
(Feonov) means the United States, since
the shoe fits. However, an important
question arises: How did Mr. Feonov
learn of discrimination in the United
States? Had he come here on a govern-
ment-conducted tour ,.. he would have

seen nothing of discrimination and he
would have learned nothing of it through
the press ... he learned of it because
everyone here is free to talk of discrim-
ination as well as of everything else.

“Were he to investigate further, he
would learn that some of this country’s
worst manifestations of racial and relig-
ious discrimination were killed through
courageous and contineous exposure and
attack by the American press.

“... This is not to be taken as a

defense of discrimination, which we hope
will be attacked by the Commission on
Human Rights as vigorously as it is now
attacking censorship. This is just by way
of saying that when Mr. Feonov com-
plains that Commission is ‘overemphasiz-
ing’ press freedom, he is disparaging
something which,in the long run, holds more
guarantees for justice than any other
one policy could hold. Freedom of speech
cannot be overemphasized.”

NEW GERMAN TEACHERS

American Military Government edu-
cators are training a new class of Ger-
man teachers untainted by Nazism, in an
effort to get German schools function-
ing again on a democratic basis, writes
the New York Herald Tribune.

“The average age of the present teach-
ers,” it said, “is fifty-nine — instructors
who learned their profession in the days
before Nazism swept like a black plague
through German schools and teachers
were forced to conform to Nazi ideology.
But even though the teachers are those
who have survived strict screening in the
denazification and demilitarization pro-
gram, they still are subject to frequent
reorientation in democracy.

“The general American policy is to
discourage Germans from gathering in
‘spontaneous’ mass meetings as a guard
against restoration of all the old ‘follow-
the-leader’ types of organizations that
flourished under Nazism.”

--- Page 26 ---
“NEW DISPLACED PERSONS”

The United States Army has ordered
a hunt throughout the American Occupa-
tion Zone for impostors and criminals
believed to be sponging on the US and
the United Nations, according to a recent
article in the New York Herald Tribune.

The Army, noting that new “displaced
persons” were appearing mysteriously in
free-care camps, ordered that the more
than 400,000 DP’s both in and out of
camps be screened. Elaborate machinery
will be in operation for the project and
the result may be forcible ouster from the
camps of many so-called displaced per-
sons.

Army authorities also hoped the vast
screening plan would reveal the perpe-
trators of crimes which have been, at-
tributed loosely to DP’s. One unofficial
Army report has said that crime among
DP’s “poses a serious security threat.”

Army authorities said 27,000 DP’s were
repatriated in March, but by the end of
the month there were 8,000 more on
hand than there were before the month’s
repatriation had begun. At the end of
April, these authorities said, there were
11,244 more DP’s in and out of camps
than there were at the beginning of the
month, despite the fact that 17,809 were
returned to\ their homes or resettled.

FRENCH ELECTIONS

Commenting on the recent French elec-
tions, the New York Herald Tribune
found the result “the culmination of the
trend away from Communism that first
became apparent in the referendum on
the draft constitution,” but that it did not
mean “defeat for those general ideas
which formed the basis of the left coali-
tion.”

“... The voters of France have be-
come sufficiently alarmed over the pros-
pect of Communist influence in their
country to mobilize against it,” the Her-
ald Tribune said, “However, the gains
of the MRP were not at the expense of
the Communists themselves, who showed

23

an actual gain in popular vote over last
October’s elections . . .

“The MRP is not a rightest party in the
sense that it opposes socialization. It
might be termed a Christian Socialist
movement, embodying some of General
De Gaulle’s ideas on the subject of a
strong executive; thus the victory of the
MRP does not mean defeat for those
general ideas which formed the basis of
of the left coalition in the early stages.
of the last Constituent Assembly. If the
Socialists, having parted company with
the Communists, collaborate with the
MRP in the formation of a new govern-
ment, it will be a Socialist government,
and it will be one which expresses the
wishes of the overwhelming mass of
French people.”

THE TASK OF LIBERALS

President Truman, in a message to
the Liberal Party dinner in New York,
warned that “there are still many ves-
tiges and expressions of tolitarianism to be
overcome,” and that this is “the first
and greatest task of all genuine liberals.”
He said, “Now that we are assured of
the ability of democracy to survive ....
we must make democracy thrive . . . Only
then can the labor and truly liberal forces
be free to organize themselves into
bona fide unions and into differing polit-
ical parties.”

BASEBALL AND HIGH POLICY

Edwin Hartrich of the New York Her-
ald Tribune believes that the American
occupation policy has taken a possible
turn in recent months — we are starting
to teach the youth of Germany to play
baseball.

“Of all the high policy and low policy
directives that have been handled out
lately, the suggestion that American sol-
diers — in their own free time — begin
to teach German boys the fundamentals
of the American national game has ‘met
with the greatest response.”

--- Page 27 ---
NEW GERMAN CITIZENS
(Continued from page 10)

ec. Individuals desiring to keep families
together. This is 1a result of alleged
practices of the expelling countries in
retaining the male members of families
with special skills or strong backs.

d. Persons who would be expelled by
countries with Volksdeutsche minorities
into other than the US Zone of Germany
but who prefer the US Zone to the other
zones.

‘. Volksdeutsche who flee from Ru-
mania, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and other
countries that were not included in the
Potsdam Agreement as being among the
nations from which Volksdeutsche mi-
norities will be accepted in Germany.
Anticipating future expulsion these people
take their fate into their own hands.

NECESSITY OF TOLERANCE

In the final analysis, the objective —
assimilation — will not be accomblished
until both the expellee and the native
resident realize that their future is con-
tingent on tolerance for one another and
on cooperation under adverse conditions.
If the expellee is not made to feel that
he “belongs” he, with other discontended.
elements, will pursue special aims. He
will be undoubtedly encouraged to do
so by subversive elements to the detri-
ment of the objectives of both Military
Government and the German community.
Moreover, he will be pursuaded to be-
lieve that his salvation lies in returning
to his native country. At the same time,
if the majority of expellees are kept
on a public dole without contributing
to the economy of the community, the
native resident will endeavor to rid him-
self of the additional burden. Their ef-
forts again may be funneled into channels
which would tend to defeat the aims of
Military Government in Germany.

Signs thatin certain cases the resentment
of the expellees is actually taking shape
are found in reports which disclose that

24

expellees have in several cases petitioned
for special representation in Kreis and in
Land governments. To discourage the
formation of minority cells which may
in the future develop into minority poli-
tical groups, it is the policy of Military
Government not to allow the resettlement
of whole communities in toto. It is equal-
ly the policy of Military Government on
humane grounds to keep families together.

POSSIBLE RESULTS RECOGNIZED

The repercussions that may result from
the absorption of 2,250,000 people into
an economically unsound area, over-pop-
ulated and with very little industry,
and with whom the German native pop-
ulation has nothing more in common
than some obsource and much-regretted
claim of ethnic ties are recognized at the
highest levels. The policy of Military
Government is that expellees will be ab-
sorbed without delay into German com-
munities subject to all laws, regulations
and privileges of the US Zone. Those
expellees who are not already German
citizens will become German citizens.

Unfortunately during the first phase
of the expellee program the problem was
regarded by the German officials as onc
exclusively in the realm of public wel-
fare. Moreover, there was a lack of ap-
preciation of the magnitude of the prob-
lem until large numbers of expellees be-
gan arriving, posing innumerable prob-
lems for immediate solution. Now it is
realized that the sociological, economic
and political aspects of the expellee
program affect all phases of government.
The importance attached to this program
becomes obvious when it is realized that
in Greater Hesse over 50 percent of the
budget is set aside for the expellee pro-
gram.

The Prisoners of War and Displaced
Persons Division of OMGUS first initiat-
ed coordinated action in the form of a
Working Group representing interested

‘divisions of OMGUS last November in

--- Page 28 ---
order to exchange information concerning
the situation and problems related to the
program of resettling expellees in. the
US Zone. At that time the heads of vari-
ous Divisions met under the auspices
of the Prisoners of War and Displaced
Persons Division to discuss the accept-
ance of expellees. The idea of a Working
Group was abandoned because of the
conviction of all present that it was im-
possible to resettle two and one-fourth
million people in a devastated and econ-
comically unsound area. Notwithstanding
this, the movement of expellees did be-
gin in January 1946. Pertinent problems
which were raised in connection with
the expellee resettlement program have
necessitated a revival of the Working
Group and on 6 May 1946 the second
meeting of this Group was held. Various

phases of the program were discussed,
among them the questions of citizenship,
housing, public welfare, and employment,
for expellees. The accomplishment of the
second meeting convinced all present that
the idea of a Working Group was sound
and desirable in view of the complexity
and magnitude of the problem. Since
then a third meeting has been held (24
May 1946) at which time not only the
heads of the various Divisions were pre-
sent, but also representatives of the three
Laender Military Government offices and
also a representative of the Regional
Government Coordinating Office. Similar
Working Groups to coordinate policies
and actions on. the expellee resettlement
program have also been formed in each
of the three Laender.

SOCIAL INSURANCE IN GERMANY
(Continued from page 12)

Old age, invalidity, and survivors in-
surance benefits are, in most cases, in-
adequate. For workers they average
around RM 38 per month which is prob-
ably somewhat below the average relief
rate, including rent. For salaried
employees the average is around RM 75
per month, or something like the relief
rate, with rent, for a married couple. No
additional benefits are paid for any de-
pendents, except a small supplement for
ach dependent child. To qualify, the
insured must in general have been cover-
ed for at least 5 years and have been
insured at least half of the time since
first covered. In spite of these low bene-
fits. — which, however, do include in-
validity as well as old age, — the finan-
cial losses suffered during the inflation of
1920-24 and the depression of 1930-
34 made it necessary for the Reich to
subsidize workers’ insurance up to about
40 percent of all expenditures.

Accident insurance provides rather li-
beral benefits in proportion to the injury
suffered and the amount of the injured
persons earnings. Benefits are paid as
long as the injury lasts, or, in case of
death, to the survivors. (To children un-
til 21 years of age, if in school, and to
widows until death or remarriage). A
100 percent disabled person receives a
cash benefit of 2/3 of his average earn-
ings at time of injury, not including any-
thing above RM 7,200 per year unless the
particular association raised the maxi-
mum, as some did. All costs of medical
treatment as well as rehabilitation ser-
vices are provided.

Under Unemployment. Insurance, bene-
fit payments have gone.through several
changes. Prior to 1933 unemployment
benefits were paid in case of involuntary.
unemployment. to insured . persons. who
had completed. the qualifying period and
were able and willing to work. The
amount of benefit was based on earn-

--- Page 29 ---
ings during the last year of employment,
and on the local cost of living. For this
purpose earnings were divided into elev-
en wage classes, with further adjust-
ments to each cost of living area. The
total amount paid was composed of the
principal benefit, plus a family bonus
equal to 5 percent of the basic wage for
each member of the insured worker’s
family. Benefits were originally granted
for 52 weeks, but this period was sub-
sequently reduced to twenty weeks.

In addition to unemployment insurance,
unemployment emergency relief was pro-
vided for unemployed persons who had
exhausted the rights to insurance bene-

fits. This relief, unlike the insurance pay-
ments, was subject to a means test.

With the advent of the Nazi regime,
greatly extended use was made of short
time relief instead of regular insurance
payments. These payments were contin-
ued until the war when they were merg-
ed with the war-time provisions for loss
of wages due to interruption of work
through various causes. With the out-
break of the war, the insurance system
was abandoned altogether and payments
were made only on the basis of need. The
system of unemployment insurance has
not yet been reestablished although its
early reestablishment is now under dis-
cussion.

TWO NEW DECREES
(Continued from page 13)

that the killing of anyone who resisted
would be justified. Such unpunished bru-
tality and crime were said to underlie
the necessity for this legislation.

The measure also states that prosecu-
tion shall not be barred in cases where
such a crime was declared lawful after
its commission, or where by order of the
Nazi authorities criminal proceedings
were not instituted, were quashed or not
completed. “The fact that any person
acted pursuant to the order of his gov-
ernment or of a superior shall not free
him under this law from responsibility
for a criminal act as aforesaid, but may
be considered in mitigation,” the law
reads.

The “Law on Redress of National Soc-
ialist Wrongs Committed in the Admin-
istration of Criminal Justice” provides
specific exemptions from punishment,
now or later, and revocation of sentences
passed during the Nazi regime for certain
acts of resistance to the tyranny of Na-
zism and militarism. Through judicial
decree, it would clear the names of per-

26

sons, living or dead, who were convicted
of crimes against the Nazi state for pol-
itical, racial or religious reasons by strik-
ing the names of those to whom it applies
from the criminal register.

In the early part of the occupation
MG released those who had been impris-
oned for violation of these Nazi decrees
as rapidly as they could be discovered.
Their so-called “criminal record” with
consequent loss of rights and respecta-
bility, however, remained against them.

This law begins with the provision
that “political acts whereby resistance
was offered to National Socialism or mili-
tarism are not subject to punishment. It
lists “in particular” anyone who under-
took to overthrow or weaken Nazism;
who from conviction evaded measures
which “predominantly served to maintain
National Socialistic tyranny or the con-
duct of total warfare;” who was punish-
able solely according to Nazi standards
or who attempted to shield another from
political punishment.

It lists nine Nazi laws and states that
convictions for any of their provisions

--- Page 30 ---
shall be deemed revoked without need
of judicial decision. Provisions are made
whereby a state attorney, a person
sentenced or any one of his survivors

may petition for revocation of sentences
passed by the Nazis in cases covered by
the measure, and which are not automat-
ically revoked under its terms.

SYMBOL OF 4-POWER UNITY
(Continued from page 7)

It is the Allied Secretariat that pre-
pares the agenda and briefs for meetings
of the Allied Control Council and the
Coordinating Committee. It is the Allied

Secretariat that prepares the minutes.
It is the Allied Sec-

“My government wants to send repre-
sentatives to the Leipzig Fair. At what,
rate can they exchange their currency
into marks?”

“My government wants to repatriate
some of its nationals in one of the Zones.
What is the first

retariat, through its

step?”

Liaison and Protokol
Section, that makes
the formal presen-
tation of the foreign
missions — China,
Australia, Brazil,Nor-
way, etc. — to the
Allied Control Coun-

Thomas A. Falco has been a magazine writer for the
past ten years. Two months ago, he left the Washington
Bureau of Business Week to serve as Chief Roports
Officer, Reports and Statistics Branch, ECONOMICS
DIVISION (OMGUS). Between 1942 and 1945, he was
associate editor of War Progress, a confidential
weekly of the War Production Board in Washington.
Previous to that, he was a feature editor of The
Financial World in New York. His articles have
appeared in a variety of other publications including
Magazine Digest, London Economist, Business Digest

“My government
wants to. send a mis-
sion to the chief
coal-producing area
of Germany. Please
make the necessary
arrangements.”

and Atlantica.

cil, the supreme gov-

’ It is questions such
as these that the

erning body of Ger-
many. And this is only part of Liaison
and Protocol’s ubiquitious job. It is a
contact point between the various
missions and the ACA and a clearing
house for information on an almost end-
less variety of topics.

“My governmment wants restitution of
electrical equipment delivered to the Ger-
mans in 1940 but never paid for. What
can be done?”

Allied Liaison and
Protocol Section must tussle with
every day, answering them on the spot
if possible or putting the missions in
touch with those who know the answers.
But the biggest question around the ACA
Building these days is whether Germany
is to; be treated as an economic unit —
whether it is to have central administrat-
ive agencies, a uniform currency, a free
movement of trade within the four zones.

27

--- Page 31 ---
Station List

Military Government Elements

OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

UNIT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: Generat Joseph McNarney

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, US

Office of
Mil Gov for

Germany, US Berlin LtGen Lucius D Clay, Deputy

Military Governor
Maj Gen C L Adcock, Assistant
Deputy Military Governor

LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

Office of Mil Gov
for Wiarttemberg-

Baden Stuttgart Lt Co: M O Edwards

1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)

(APO 154)

Hq 1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart Lt Col M O Edwards
Hq & Sv Co 1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart let Lt J P Clifford
1st Mobile Maint Plat Zuffenhausen Capt E G Thompson
Hq 1st MG Med Gp Stuttgart Lt Col Beckjord

Wirttemberg
E-1 Stuttgart Warttemberg Col M O Edwards
F-10 Stuttgart SK Stuttgart Lt Col L Jackson
F-11 Ulm SK-LK Capt R N Tharp
G-20 Aalen LK Aalen Capt R H Nation
G-21 Béblingen LK Béblingen 1st Lt O P Johnson
G-22 Crailsheim LK Crailsheim 1st Lt R E Alle
G-23 Esslin, LK Eeslin, Capt F A Me ld
G-24 Gmin Eps he + rf E Switzer
G-25 Géppingen ppingen t R Kenned:
G-26 Sclrribtech Hall LK Hall Capt cs Keene.
G-27 Heidenheim . LK Heidenheim Maj B V Bloom
G-28 Heilbronn LK Heilbronn 1st Lt P F Sullivan
G-29 Ludwigsburg LK Ludwigsburg 1st Lt J Strauss
G-30 Waiblingen LK Waiblingen Cap I B Creas
H-50 Backnang LK Backnang Capt B Panettiere
H-52 Kanzelsau LK Kanzelsau Capt C E McGaffey
H-53 Leonberg LK Leonber, Capt W J Vallaza
H-54 Bad Mergentheim LK Mergen Capt R Forrest
H-55 Nartingen LK Nartingen Maj S A Warren
H-56 Ohringen LK Ohringen 1st Lt M Korsun
H-58 Vaihingen LK Vaihingen 1st Lt US Aiello

Landesbezirk North Baden
F-16 Mannheim SK-LK Mannheim Maj M L Hoover

G-43 Heidelberg
G-46 Pforzheim
G-47 Karlsruhe

SK-LK Heidelberg
SK-LK Pforzheim
SK-LK Karlsruhe

Lt Col W T Burt
1st Lt N Semaschko
Maj W T Neel

H-87 Bruchsal LK Bruchsal 1st Lt L L Goldman
H-89 Buchen LK Buchen Maj I A McGinness
H-90 Mosbach LK Mosbach 1et Lt I C Maghran
H-91 Tauberbischofsheim LK Tauberbischofsheim 1st Lt J Zecca

H-92 Sinsheim LK Sinsheim Capt H D Paterson

28

--- Page 32 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Office of Mil Gov;
for Land Greater Hesse
Wiesbaden

Hg 2d Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Wiesbaden
Hg Co 2d Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Wiesbaden
Sv Co 2d Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Oberursel
2d MG Med SP

H-87 US Ln Det Essen (Ruhr)
H-88 US Ln Det Sulzbach (Saar)
307 Hq (Westphalia Reg) Munster

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

Wiesbaden
Frankfurt
Wiesbaden
Wetzlar
Dillenburg
Gelnhausen

Hanau
Weilburg

Hofheim
Ridesheim
Bad Homburg

ZOsnS
& &€yU NYkPOAn

So Oye

9

Imm mm =
&8

Regierungsbezirk Kassel

E-4 Kassel

F-14 Kassel
G-38 Fritzlar
G-39 Marburg
G-40 Fulda

G-48 Korbach
H-65 Eschwege
H-67 Hersfeld
H-68 Hofgeismar

Regierungsbezirk Hessen

E-3 Darmstadt
F-12 Darmstadt

F-13 Offenbach
G-31 Heppenheim
G-32 Badingen
G-33 Dieburg
G-34 Friedberg
G-35 Giessen
H-62 Lauterbach

*Liaison and security

LAND GREATER HESSE

2d Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

Liaison

RB Wiesbaden
SK Frankfurt
SK Wiesbaden
LK Wetzlar
LK Biedenkopf
*LK Gelnhausen &
*LK Schlachtern
SK-LK Hanau
*LK Limburg &
LK Oberlahn
LK Maintaunus
LK Untertaunus
*LK Usingen &
LK Obertaunus

RB Kassel
SK-LK Kassel &
*LK Melsungen
LK Fritzlar-Homburg &
*LK Ziegenhain
SK-LK Marburg
SK-LK Fulda & *LK Hinfeld
LK Waldeck & *LK Frankenberg
LK Eschwege &
*LK Witzenhausen
LK Hersfeld &
*LK Rotenpurg
LK Hofgeismar &
*LK Wolthagen

RB Hessen

SK-LK Darmstadt &
*LK Gross-Gerau

SK-LK Offenbach

LK Bergstrasse & *LK Erbach
LK Biadingen

LK Dieburg

LK Friedberg &
*ICB Bad Nauheim

SK-LK Giessen

LK xauterbach & *LK Alsfeld

29

=

Col J R Newman

Col J R Newman
Capt H E York
Capt B A Sturdevan
Maj B H Kean

Capt G E Skaggs
Maj W Condy

Lt Col L J Dockal

Col J R Newman

Col R K Phelps

Maj M E Chotas

Maj M Baymor

Capt G A Abood '

Capt W F Johnson
Lt Col T Turner

Capt H L Edberg
Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hintz

Capt L F Jones

Lt Col A Skarry
Maj G C Sola

1st Lt W W Lechner

Maj R A Gish

Lt Col C F Russe

Capt H R Dichtenmueller

Maj R F Musgrove
Capt G S Iredell
Capt S B Borda

Lt Col W R Swarm

Capt N R Laird
Capt C H Carter
Maj L H Brown
Capt T A Norris
Capt J S Chapin.

Maj R J Willard
Capt C H Lenneville
Capt H Nickelsberg

--- Page 33 ---
OFFICE OF
UNIT LOCATION MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

LAND BAVARIA

Office of
Mil Gov for
Bavaria Munich

3d Mil Gov Regt

(APO 170)
Hq 3d Mil Gov Regt Munich
Hq Co Munich
Sv Co Munich

Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken
Co A Wiarzburg RB Mainfranken
*A-210 Wirzburg SK-LK Warzburg
*A-220 Aschaffenburg SK-LK Aschaffenburg
*A-221 Schweinfurt SK-LK Schweinfurt
*A-250 Bad Kissingen LK Kissingen
*A-251 — Kitzingen LK Kitzingen
7A-330 Alzenau LK Alzenau
*A-331 Briickenau LK Brickenau
*A-332 Ebern LK Ebern
*A-333 Gemiinden LK Gemiinden
7A-334 Gerolzhofen LK Gerolzhofen
TA-335 Hammelburg LK Hammelburg
*A-336 Hassfurt LK Hassfurt
*A-337 Hofheim LK Hofheim
7*A-338 PoE os Konak
*A-339 ‘énigshofen ‘Snij; fen
7*A-340 ieee LK Lohr
*A-341 Marktheidenfeld LK Markt Heidenfeld
TA-342 Mellrichstadt LK Melirichstadt
°A-343 — Miltenberg LK Miltenberg
7A-344 Neustadt Saale LK Neustadt a. d. Saale
*A-345 Obernburg LK Obernburg
*A-346 Ochsenfurt LK Ochsenfurt
Regierungsbezirk Ober & Mittelfranken

Co B Ansbach RB Ober and Mittelfranken
*B-211 Narnberg SK-LK Niarnberg
*B-222 Bamberg SK-LK Bamberg
*B-223 Bayreuth SK-LK Bayreuth
*B-224 Erlangen LK Erlangen
*B-225 Coburg SK-LK Coburg
*B-227 Hof SK-LK Hof
*B-228 Ansbach SK-LK Ansbach
*B-229 Firth SK-LK Firth
*H-254 Kulmbach SK-LK Kulmbach
*B-226 ‘Kronach LK Kronach
*B-247 Lichtenfels LK Lichtenfels
*B-252 Ebermannstadt LK Ebermannstadt
*B-253 Hochstadt LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
*B-255 Pegnitz LK Pegnitz
*B-256 § Munchberg LK Munchberg
*B-258 Rehau LK Rehau
*B-259 ‘Wunsiedel LK Wunsiedel
*B-260 Forcheim LK Forcheim
*B-261 —Dinkelsbihl LK Dinkelsbaihl
*B-262 Eichstadt LK Eichstadt

*Liaison and security

30

Brig Gen W J Muller

Col C C Morgan
Capt J W Preston
Capt L R Clark

Maj I P Chestnut
Maj MB Voorhees
Capt J R Hurst
Maj G M Marsh
Capt M A Potter
Capt M Colbert
Capt A T Neumann
Capt Grodzinski
1st Lt G E Mair
Capt J J Cotter

ist Lt G F Feehan
Capt K L Ellis
Capt R E Hellmig
Capt FL Beelby
Capt W E Brayden
Capt C Boden

Capt E E Kelly
Capt Griffin

1st Lt L K Owens
Capt O A Jenson
Capt E F Warnke
Capt J Bumic

Capt L A Lowell

Col E M Haight
Lt Col C Klise

Lt Col J R Case
Capt B F Stroup, Acig
Lt Col F M Guild
Maj S Kiein

Maj HL Woodall
Capt J R Palmer, Actg
Maj A C Abbott
Maj HT Lund
Capt J F Begley
Maj F W Crimp
Maj RT Boyer
Capt O E Palmer
Capt F J Stamatis
Maj H C Kauffman
Capt W W Evans
Maj T Ch

Maj H W Zurn
Capt J F Wyatt
Capt R J Towle

--- Page 34 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

*B-263 Feuchtwangen
*B-264 Gunzenhausen
*B-265 Hersbruck
*B-266 —Hilpoltstein
*B-267 Weissenburg
*B-268 Rothenburg
*B-269 Schwabach
*B-270 Scheinfeld
*B-271 Windsheim
*B-272 Lauf

*B-273 Neustadt a. d. Aisch
*B-347 = Naila

*B-348 Stadtsteinach

LK Feuchtwangen
LK Gunzenhausen
LK Hersbruck
LK Hilpoltstein
LK Weissenburg
LK Rothenburg
LK Schwahach

' LK Scheinfeld

LK Uffenheim

LK Lauf

LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch
LK Naila

LK Stadtsteinach

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern & Oberpfalz

Co D Regensburg
*D-212 Regensburg
*D-230 — Weiden

*D-243 Passau
*D-244 Amberg
*D-245 Landshut
*D-246 Straubing
*D-274 Cham

*D-275 Burglengenfeld
*D-276 Parsberg
*D-277 __‘ Tirschenreuth
*D-278 Neunburg
*D-279 Eschenbach
*D-301 Deggendorf
*D-302 Eggenfelden
*D-303 Grafenau
*D-304 Kelheim
*D-305 Landau
*D-306 Pfarrkirchen
*D-307 = Zweisel
*D-308 Vilshofen
*D-309 Vilsiburg
*D-310  Wolfstein
*D-349  Kemnath
*D-350 Nabburg
*D-351 Oberviechtach
*D-352 —_ Riedenberg
*D-353 Vohenstrauss
*D-354 Roding
*D-355 Waldminchen
*D-356 Beilngries ~
*D-357 Neumarkt
*D-358 Sulzbach-Rosenburg
*D-375 Bogen

*D-377 Dingolfing
*D-278 Griesbach
*D-379 = Katzting
*D-380 Mainburg
*D-381  — Mallersdorf
*D-382 Rottenburg
*D-383 Viechtach
*D-385 Wegscheid

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

CoE Munich
*E-213 Munich
*B.231 _Freising

*Liaison and security

RB Niederbayern & Oberpfalz
SK-LK Regensburg

SK Weiden &

LK Neustadt a. d. Wald
SK-LK Passau

SK-LK Amberg

SK-LK Landshut

SK-LK Straubing

LK Cham

LK Burglengenfeld

LK Parsberg

LK Tirschenreuth

LK Neunburg vorm Wald
LK Eschenbach i. d. Opf.
LK Deggendorf

LK Eggenfelden

LK Grafenau

LK Kelheim

LK Landau a. d. Isar
LK. Pfarrkirchen

LK Regen

LK Vilshofen

LK Vilsiburg

LK Wolfstein

LK Kemnath

LK Nabburg

LK Oberviechtach

LK Riedenberg

LK Vohenstrauss

LK Roding

LK Waldmainchen

LK Beilngries

LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
LK Sulzbach-Rodenburg
LK Bogen

LK Dingolfing

LK Griesbach

LK Katzting

LK Mainburg

LK Mallersdorf

LK Rottenburg

LK Viechtach

LK Wegscheid

RB Oberbayern
SK-LK Munich
SK-LK Freising

31

1st Lt D J Smith
Maj R J Nielson

1st Lt L D Franklin
Capt R E Peters

1st Lt W C Williams
Maj F K Hinchey
Maj R E Stringer
Capt G B Jones
Capt L C Wheeler
Capt N A Carr

Maj O J Cody

Capt G N Hultren
Capt H C Moore

Lt Col G D Hastings
Maj C G Doyle

Maj G J Gainer

Maj HL Snapp

Maj J C Robertson
Maj T R B Coykendall
Capt G L Milner

1st Lt E A McNamara
1st Lt R W Corly

1st Lt P J Piccola
Capt LR Mariels

Capt R G Miller

Capt R O Woodward
1st Lt H Cohen

Lt S Fuchs

1st Lt R Maewhorter
Capt D Stacy

1st Lt H_ Fueglein
1st Lt N F Ugland

Lt M V Fidals

Capt G W Cunningham
Lt JD Brooks

Capt M J Jarvis

1st Lt W W Greene
Capt E J Gallant

Capt C H Smallwood
1st Lt T B Wofford
Capt J F Leech

Capt D K Nickerson
ist Lt F Henry

Maj E Fitchter

Ist Lt M W Doane
1st Lt T A Winkelsecht
Capt A R Sphar

Capt J W Fleshman
1st Lt G L Thomas

Lt J C Mitchell

1st Lt J J McWatters
Lt P A Nesbitt

1st Lt CG Dansby
Capt R E Pike

Lt AL Stone

Lt Col R F Philpott
Capt Kurt Baer
Maj E W Boney

--- Page 35 ---
UNIT LOCATION

OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

*E-235 Rosenheim
*E-237 Ingolstadt
*E-232 Miesbach
*E-233 Traunstein
*E-234 — Alltéttin,

*E-236 Partenkirchen
*E-280 = Erding

*E-281 Laufen

*E-282 Mihldorf
*E-283 Wasserburg
*E-284 Bad Taélz
*E-285 = Aibling

*E-286 Farstenfeldbruck
*E-287 Landsberg
*E-288 § Pfaffenhofen
*E-289 = Starnberg
*E-290 Weilheim
*E-291 Wolfratshausen
*E-311 Berchtesgaden
*E-361 Ebersber,
*E-364  Schrobenhausen
*E-362 = Aichach
Dachau

*E-368 Schéngau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Co G Augsbur,
*G-214 Augsburg
*G-242 Kempten
*G-239 Dillingen
*G-240 Weissenborn
*G-241 Sonthofen
*G-292 Donauwérth
*G-293 Ginzberg
*G-294. Markt Oberdorf
*G-295 Memmingen
*G-296  Mindelheim
*G-297  Neuberg
*G-298 = Nérdlingen
*G-299 Fassen
*G-300 Krumbach
*G-369 _IIlertissen
*G-370 Kaufbeuren
*G-372  Wertingen
*G-373 Friedberg
*G-374  Schwabminchen
Office of

Mil Gov

(US Sector

Berlin) Berlin

Office of Mil Gov
for Bremen Enclave (US) Bremen
Wesermiinde Det | Weserminde

*Liaison and security

SK-LK Rosenheim
SK-LK Ingolstadt
LK Miesbach

LK Traunstein

LK Altéttin,

LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen
LK Erding

LK Laufen

LK Mahldorf

LK Wasserburg
LK Télz

LK Aibling

LK Farstenfeldbrack
LK Landsberg

LK Pfaffenhofen
LK Starnberg

LK Weilheim

LK Wolfratshausen
LK Berchtesgaden
LK Ebersberg

LK Aichach

LK Schrobenhausen
LK Dachau

LK Schéngau

RB Schwaben
SK-LK Augsburg
SK-LK Kempten
LK Dillingen

LK Neu Ulm

LK Sonthofen

LK Donauwérth
LK Ginzberg

LK Markt Oberdorf
LK Memmingen
LK Mindelheim

LK Neuberg a. d. Donau
LK Nordlingen

LK Fassen

LK Krumbach

LK Illertissen

LK Kaufbeuren

LK Wertingen

LK Friedberg

LK Schwabmiinchen

US SECTOR, BERLIN DISTRICT

US Sector, Berlin District
(APO 755)

BREMEN ENCLAVE
(APO 751)

SK Bremen
SK Weserminde

32

Capt R H Necel
Capt W Lasserty
Capt W A Lovett
Maj C H Bischoff
Maj A H Wright
Maj M N Nitz

Maj C A Brown
Capt N W Borring
Capt W M Forys
Capt D Root

Capt W N Dickerson
Maj E J Newmeyer
1st Lt H Klein

Capt M L Mott

Capt J E Thayer
Capt B B Simmons
Capt M J Groves
Maj P L Steers
Maj M Mawrence
Maj F Owen

1st Lt HJ Thompson
Capt H J Bierman
Maj A G Snow

Maj G A Rein

Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Lt Col R S Wagner
Maj R J Paul

Capt J A Morris
Maj J E Rhea
Capt R Glass

1st Lt E A Eaton
Capt B M Green
1st Lt M W Toepser
Capt L A Troter
Capt E D Schanck
Lt P W Thomson
Capt S$ D Lubin
Cist Lt O H Sager
Capt J O Renalds
Capt D G Stevens
Lt P F Moskowitz
Capt D J Moran
Capt T B Creaves

Col F L Howley

Lt Col B C Welker
Lt Col L S Diggs