--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 54 / 12 AUGUST 1946

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN-
oe MARBURG
LAUTERBACH,
OBER =
LAHNKREIS
FRIEDBERG
QBERTAUNU:

WIESBADEN iReawcrog

OFFENBACH

GROSS~
GERAU|
DIEBURG
DARMSTAD

ROTEN BURG

BRUCHSAL
HEILBRONN

e BACKNANK
PEORZHEIM
LEONBER'
BOBLINGEN Frares|

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

| INE N

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S. ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL LETTERS AND INSTRUCTIONS

Liquidation of German Military and Nazi Memorials and Museums .

Submission of Standard Statistics of Persons Registered at the
Labor Office.

Certificate of Compliance with Future Theater Directives on Private
Vehicles

Gasoline Ration for Privately Owned Motor Vehicles .
Downgrading of Document..

Downgrading of Classified Records

Forage of Horses .

Mail Service for Civilian Internees

Semi-Monthly Statistical Reporting to MG by Ministers for Political

Liberation on Trial Tribunals .

Change in Passenger Fares, Weekly Workers’ Tickets (Tariff D-23) .

Discontinuance of the Use of Signature Stamps by Military

Government Officers.

Troop Assignment (No. 31)

Monthly Statistical Reporting to Military Government by Land

Ministers for Political Liberation .

Miscellaneous German Social and Fraternal Groups

AG 007 (1A)
22 July 1946, OMGUS

AG 004.06 (MD)
23 July 1946, OMGUS

AG 451 GAP-AGO
22 July 1946, USFET

AG 463.7 GAP-AGO
24 July 1946, USFET

AG 380.01 GBI-AGO
25 July 1946, USFET

AG 312.1 GCT-AGO
25 July 1946, USFET

AG 464 RMJ-AGO
25 July 1946, USFET

AG 311.1 GAP-AGO
25 July 1946, USFET

AG 050 (IA)
26 July 1946 OMGUS

AG 123 (TD)
30 July 1946, OMGUS

AG 312.4 (CA)
30 July 1946, OMGUS

AG 370.5 GCT-AGO
31 July 1946, USFET

AG 050 (CO)
31 July 1946, OMGUS

AG 080 (CA)
2 Aug 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing directly to. the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
* Signal Corps Photo

TRIED BY HIS PEERS — The picture on
this week’s cover shows George Sturm standing
before a denazification court in Heidenheim,
Germany. The court, conducted by the German
people, found Sturm guilty as an activist in
the Nazi Party. For other picture's of the trial
see “A German Yerdict" on page 14 of this
issue.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

American Policy for Occupation is taken
from the recent orientation lecture, “Our Job
in Germany,” delivered by Col. William Whipple,
Secretary General of OMGUS. Colonel
Whipple’s article shows we have a definite
policy and clearly states its four major objectives
— demilitarization, denazification, economic
limitation and re-education.

Thomas Falco reviews the problems facing
German industry in Industry in the US Zone.
Falco, who is Chief Reports Officer, Reports
and Statistics Branch, Economics Division,
OMGUS, has contributed several other articles
to the “Weekly Information Bulletin” in the past
three months, the most recent being “Operation
Lost and Found“ which appeared in Issue No 48.

Central German Agencies is the first of a
series of eight articles taken from an OMGUS
report of the same ftifle. The report is being
presented nearly in its entirety so that American
personnel will be familiar with the American
proposal, which is the first concrete detailed
blueprint for central German agencies as
outlined in the Potsdam Agreement.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

American Policy for Occupation
Industry in the US Zone

Here’s Your Holiday with Pay
Central German Agencies

A German Verdict
GENERAL
GERMAN REACTIONS
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENT
STATION LIST

PAGE

10
12
14

16
19
20
24

--- Page 7 ---
I has often been said we have no policy
and no plan in Germany. That statement
is simply not true. We definitely do have an
occupation policy and it is basically the same
as when we captured our first German ter-
ritory a year and a half ago. This policy is
based on the international situation and the
needs of the United States, and its success is
of crucial importance to future world events.
This article explains briefly what that policy
is; that is, what we are trying to accomplish
here, and what the individual can do to help.

FOUNDATION OF POLICY

The United States is a very great nation,
but also a complacent nation. We tend to
overlook the problems with which we have
been faced and consider them minor incidents,
and to brush aside any thoughts that we may
be in danger in the future. But the United
States is determined that we are not going to
let it happen again. That is the foundation
of our German policy — to prevent Germany
from starting World War III. We are de-
termined that whatever measures are neces-
sary will be taken to insure a peaceful Ger-
many. Despite differences on other subjects,
the Soviets, British and French are equally
determined that this will be done. The Pots-
dam Agreement, signed in Berlin a little
more than a year ago by the United States,
Union of the Soviet Socialist Republics, and
United Kingdom, sets the basic policy for our
occupation, and in general it is a good policy.

First of all, it is necessary to consider the
Germans themselves. The Nazis had the

AMERICAN POLICY FOR

theory that the Germans were a superior
race, This theory was wrong and danger-
ous, but likewise it is not true that all or
even most Germans are racially inferior or
criminal types. The German nation for a
long time before 1860 had been a relatively
peaceful people. The Germans on the whole
are clean, intelligent and lead generally good
family lives, but the nation as a whole no
longer seems to be able to settle down per-
manently to a normal peaceful existence.
Either the people get a desire to start a war
or they turn the government over tg yR-
scrupulous gangsters who have no regard for
peace or justice. In other words, Germany
is politically unstable. Similarly, not all
Germans are cruel or vicious people, but
there are sadistic elements among them who
must be watched. The Nazis were about the
worst lot of gangsters who ever got control
of a country; however, the German nation
was a threat to the peace of the world in the
First World War, before the Nazis were
heard of — what is wrong then as now is
something basic. It is against these back-
grounds that we must consider the basic
American policy.

FOUR MAJOR OBJECTIVES

Our basic policy for the occupation has
four major objectives. The one on which we
have made the most progress is demilitari-
zation. In the first few weeks after the sur-
render, the entire German armed forces were
rounded up and their initial disarmament
completed. Since that time their headquarters

--- Page 8 ---
have been completely disbanded, their records
seized, and the greater part of their personnel
screened and discharged as individuals to
return to civil life. The only ones retained
are security suspects, possible war criminals
and certain specialist and labor groups held
over for purposes of the occupation.

The Wehrmacht itself has therefore ceas-
ed to exist. German war material has now
been very largely disposed of or scrapped
and we are well advanced on the destruction
of the fortifications, submarine pens, anti-
aircraft batteries and other defenses. German
munitions factories are being destroyed or
converted to useful purposes, and we have
now gotten down to the point where we have
instructed German agencies to destroy their
own militaristic war memorials. This first
main objective is well on its way toward
completion, except for one thing — the ‘Wehr-
macht still exists in the minds and memories
of the German people. However, their orient-
ation away from militarism is part of our
longer-range objective.

DENAZIFICATION PROGRAM

The second big objective of the occupation
is denazification. The first phase of denazi-
fication consisted of investigating all individ-
uals who held any position of importance,
discharging those who were Nazis and re-
legating them to the status of common labor.
Denazification of government and of finance
was attacked early and successfully. This
was then extended to private business, to the
professions and to communications, Denazi-

fication of transportation was held up for
some time because of the critical importance
of the transportation system to our more im-
mediate needs. Finally it too was completed.
Now the discharge of Nazis from positions
importance in Germany is virtually finished.

CONTINUED BY GERMANS

To follow up on this first phase of denazi-
fication the Germans in the US Zone have
now passed a law much more drastic than
proposed by Military Government. This law
provides for the setting up of German tri-
bunals under the direction of the Minister of
Political Liberation in each Land to search
out and try all persons who have participa-
ted in the Nazi movement. Depending on their
involvement in Nazi activities, Germans are
subjected to appropriate penalties including
fines, imprisonment and loss of political
privileges. The execution of this German
program under the supervision of MG will
take a long time, on account of the tremend-
ous number of cases that must be investigated
and the great pressure to which the tribunals
will be subjected, but the successful comple-
tion of the program will accomplish the sec-
ond major objective of military government
in the occupation of Germany.

Our third major objective, the control of
the German economy, is more complicated
and not so far advanced as the first two.
From the long-range point of view it is of
the highest importance to prevent the build-

--- Page 9 ---
ing up of a German war potential which
could support future German aggression.
Therefore, with the full cooperation of the
other occupying powers, a plan called “The
Level of Industry Plan” was developed. It
entirely prohibits certain types of industrial
activity which are closely related to German
war potentialities, and established strict
ceilings on other major industries. Part of
our economic objective in Germany. is to
restrain her permanently from rising above
the industrial levels provided in this plan.

PRACTICAL PROGRAM

The other side of our economic objective,
however, is practical and humanitarian in
nature, and of much more immediate appli-
cation. The prosecution of the war, the Al-
lied bombings, and the handicaps placed
upon the German economy by the occupation
itself and the division into four zones have
placed the German people in a position where
they cannot support themselves. In order
to prevent starvation and disease among the
German population, which would imperil
our own troops and make it impossible for
us to institute stable and democratic forms
of local government, it has been necessary to
import millions of dollars of food into Ger-
many. This has been done at the expense of
the American taxpayers, since for the time
being all of Germany’s foreign assets are
frozen, and the value of the exports which
can be sold abroad is comparatively small.
As long as we occupy a portion of Germany
and constitute the only government which
can manage the affairs of its people, we can-
not stand by and watch them starve; but on
the other hand we certainly must make Ger-
many self-supporting as quickly as possible.
To this end a major effort has been made
to rebuild the German transport services, to
expand German agricultural production and
to encourage German industries, particularly
those in the light industry category, which
can export products to pay for essential
imports.

Our first three objectives by themselves
will not prevent Germany from starting

World War IIf We have practically
destroyed the German army, navy and air
force, but such forces can be rebuilt as they
were rebuilt by Hitler. We have placed
limits on the upper level of German industry
and made provisions for making available as
reparations all factories not required to
maintain this level of industry; but if Ger-
many were left alone for a period of years
these. factories could be rebuilt to create a
new and even more formidable economic war
potential. We have thrown the Nazis out of
their jobs and are taking measures to de-
prive them of their property and civic rights
and to imprison them for periods of years;
but if political conditions changed and US
troops withdrew, these Nazis could be re-
leased or another generation of German
militarists and dangerous political leaders
could develop. Therefore, as long as we
carry out only our first three objectives, it
is necessary for us to occupy Germany per-
manently with troops in order to insure the
continuation of the peace.

NEED FOR RE-EDUCATION

It is, however, contrary to the American
tradition to hold another nation in perma-
nent subordination, and it is considered that
measures can be taken now to make it safe
to withdraw any external control at sometime
in the future, and turn Germany back to the
Germans. The creation of conditions under
which it will be safe to withdraw our troops
requires the complete re-education of Ger-
many, and this is our fourth main objective.
This re-education of Germany must be much
broader than is normally meant by the term
“education.” This is not a matter of school
education, but of inducing an entire nation
to change its basic attitudes and political
philosophy. We have got to build up in the
Germans a strong democracy, a resistance to
bureaucracy and militarism, such as exists
in all truly democratic countries. .

In trying to achieve this objective we run
across a basic paradox: You cannot force a
man to be free. What we are trying to do
is to make the Germans think for themselves,

(Continued on pege 23)

--- Page 10 ---
frosty in the US Zone is like a high-
powered automobile that once ran on
16 cylinders but now runs on only four. Its
fuel and rubber must come from outside the
US Zone. Its parts, damaged by war and
operating at less then top efficiency, must be
replaced with components made of materials
from outside the zone.

Despite the general upswing of industrial
production during the past year to approxi-
mately 29 percent of capacity in June, the
US Zone needs more, much more, of almost
everything that industry produces — from
coal and steel to transportation equipment,

machinery, spare parts, farm equipment,
chemicals, clothing and other consumer
goods. To fill such needs, the Zone must
depend largely on raw materials and sup-
plies from other zones and from ‘foreign
countries.

CONDITIONS AFTER SURRENDER

Fourteen months ago, when the occupation
began, the German economy had been torn
to tatters by the war. As a result, industrial
activity in the US Zone — as in all of Ger-
many — was practically nil. Transportation

--- Page 11 ---
was paralyzed; communications were dis-
rupted; blast furnaces were down; the flow
of coal from the Ruhr and Saar was cut off;
paper and pulp plants were at a standstill;
and production of consumer goods was a
mere trickle.

For all practical purposes, the giant in-
dustrial machine of presurrender Germany
had stopped.

ACTION BY US ARMY

The US Army, together with officials and
workers of the US Group Control Council,
predecessor to the US Office of Military
Government, immediately turned to the task
of restoring order out of chaos. Food was
brought to the cities. Electric power lines
were restored. Rail lines were repaired.
Water supply was reestablished. Sewage
disposal was put back into operation. Out-
put of such essential items as soap, shoes,
textiles and medicinals was resumed.

But the task of Military Government had
only begun. The US Zone is one of Ger-
many’s important processing, finishing and
fabricating areas. To restore industrial acti-
vity in the US Zone, the wheels in mills and
factories in the area had to turn. That called
for steel, cotton, buna, basic chemicals, com-
ponents and — above all — coal.

TWO PERIODS OF DEVELOPMENT

The year just ended falls roughly into two
periods of development. The first, from
July to December 1945, represented six
months of fundamental rebuilding. Rubble
was cleared; stock was taken of machinery
and equipment; damaged machines were re-
paired; factory buildings were roofed over.
During this time, the extensive war profits
of most German war manufactures made it
possible to keep large crews working on
these essential, though non-revenue produc-
ing, tasks.

After authorization to operate was ob-
tained from Military Government, a plant
could resume production if — and that was
a big “if” — fuel, power, raw materials and
labor were available.

In some cases, stocks of varying amounts
were available; in others MG came to the
rescue by “reclaiming” materials “destroyed”
by the Germans — as in the case of a sub-
stantial supply of pulpwood that had been
scutiled in the Main River. Where end-
products were of sufficient importance, the
manufacturer was likely to obtain some al-
location of coal or power to set his factory
wheels turning.

By measures such as these, the first paper
mill in the US Zone began operating in
June; the first sheet steel mill and glass
works in September; the first plants for pro-
ducing soda ash and steel ingots in October;
the first plant for producing calcium cyana-
mide (for nitrogen fertilizer) in November.

PRODUCTION RISE

During the second period, from January to
June 1946, the ingenuity and hard work of
the first six months began to pay off. From
10 or 12 percent of capacity in December,
industrial production forged ahead slowly,
but steadily. As a corollary, the number of
plants in operation between December 1945
and June 1946 doubled to approximately
8,000. .

The upswing in production was aided by
a relatively mild winter and by the absence
of any epidemics. Food rationing was main-
tained — although at a comparatively low
level — and rations were distributed promily
and equitably. The clamp on legal prices
held firm. With the exception of March,
when rations in the British Zone were cut
and coal output fell — only to regain almost
all lost ground in subsequent months —
there was a steady improvement in coal out-
put from the Ruhr.

OTHER PROGRESS DURING PERIOD

During this period, also, transportation
facilities approached normal. Telephone and
telegraph service was restored, and mail
service resumed. The supply of labor was
reasonably adequate to meet demand. The
first commercial export sales were concluded.

June’s industrial activity in the US Zone,

--- Page 12 ---
at an estimated 29 percent of capacity, was
highest since start of the occupation. Pro-
ductionwise, that came to: 21,000 tons of pig
iron, 15,000 tons of ingot steel, 7,000 tons
of iron and steel castings, 1,900 tons of cot-
ton yarn, 900 tons of synthetic fibers, 15,000
tons of paper, 5,200 tons of pulp, 1,100,000
pairs of shoes, 3,400,000 conserve food cans,
9,000 ‘transport milk cans, 37,000 stoves,
545 tons of farm machinery spare parts,
147,000 agricultural hand tools, 2,200 plows,
588,000 square meters of flat glass, 241,000
cubic meters of lumber, 552 tons of automo-
tive spare parts.

ZONE DEFICIENT IN COAL

However, in coal — as in steel and many
other basic materials — the US Zone is a
“have not” area. Even at current near-
capacity operation, its coal mines can turn
out only 10—15 percent of the Zone’s coal
requirements. The lion’s share of German
coal production is in the Ruhr, a part of the
British Zone.

True, the four occupying powers began
pushing coal production at the outset of oc-
cupation. To supply the occupying forces,
to bring exports of German coal to the lib-
erated countries and to maintain a minimum-
level civilian economy in Germany, such pro-
duction was a “must.” By July 1945, hard
coal output in the Western Zones of Ger-
many had quadrupled to 2,000,000 tons as
compared with the post-surrender low, and
brown coal output had increased about eight-
fold. By mid-fall, production of hard coal
reached 4,420,000 tons, 35 percent of the pre-
war rate.

GOAL SET FOR 1949

In June 1946, output of hard coal in all
four zones of Germany ran at a current an-
nual rate of 59,100,000 tons. To reach the
production goal set by the quadripartite
Reparations Agreement, hard coal output
should reach 94,400,000 in 1949, the so-
called “target year.” Attaining that 60 per-
cent rise — and attaining it as soon as pos-

sible — means solving problems of labor,
food rations, consumer goods, and mine-
machinery replacement and repair.

DEPENDENCE ON OTHER ZONES

Coal is the classicial example of the de-
pendency of the US Zone on other zones and,
foreign countries for raw materials and sup-
plies. But the same applies to ammonia,
which is’ brought in from the French Zone;
to buna and kaolin, which are available in
the Soviet Zone; to petroleum, coal tar and
sulphuric acid which come from the British
Zone. Feldspar and flint are brought in from
Scandinavia; hemp from Italy. Without the
10,000 tons of cotton imported from the
United States last spring, most cotton mills
now operating in the US Zone would be shut
down.

RESPONSE TO IMPORTS

Whenever — and from whatever source
— necessary supplies have been made avail-
able, industry in the US Zone has been able
to respond:

In cotton yarn, current annual output was
22,320 tons in June.

In the wake of receipts of sheet steel from
the French and British Zones, output of con-
serve food cans is now sufficient to meet
peak period canning needs.

With a salvage program under way and
new production facilities put into operation,
the transport milk-can program is now over
the hump.

Manufactures of binder twine are now
operating at a good rate as a result of im-
ports of 3,000 tons of hemp from Italy.

The allegorical automobile representing in-
dustry in the US Zone still chugs along on
only four of its 16 cylinders. But make fuel
and rubber and parts available and the same
car has a good chance of once again running
smoothly, although at not more than the
reduced speeds indicated in the Potsdam
Agreement and established by the Plan for
Reparations and the Level of Postwar Ger-
man Economy.

--- Page 13 ---


--- Page 14 ---
HOLIDAY WITH PAY!

i a theater-wide project USFET recently
_ Minaugurated its “THINK AND WIN” con-
test and offered such intriguing awards to
winning participants as free holidays of a
week or two weeks with all expenses paid
to any selected point within the Theater, as
well as cash awards and items of merchan-
dise.

OMGUS selected “SUGGEST AND WIN”
to launch its Suggestions and Awards
program, which is part of the USFET pro-
ject. The policy for determining awards
and prizes is theater-wide. Prizes to military
and civilians differ in kind but are alike in
value and the amount of the award is in
line with the merit of the suggestion.

In line with General Eisenhower’s policy
to introduce democratic methods in the Army,
the project encourages an employee-employee
attitude. There are no fixed limits on the
type of suggestions — all kinds of ideas
are wanted. They may deal with OMGUS
as an organization, the improvement of per-
formance, simplification of records or pro-
cedures, elimination of cumbersome methods
and practical suggestions on questions which
confront Military Government, such as re-
lations with Germans and displaced persons;
or they may be intended to improve health,
morale, and welfare of employees.

In sponsoring the Suggestion and Awards
project the Army advocates two policies:

(1) The Occupation is Your job. Parti-
cipate in it through your organization and
do the best job possible.

(2) While in Europe, make your stay
worthwhile, by enjoying the opportunities
of travel to improve yourself.

i Sear RI ae rat te reacties a

TT

--- Page 15 ---
Be

\
/

Vas a eae

ST 2 eh ate

,

CENTRAL
GERMAN
AGENCIES

pax

~~ ete eta

AAA

1x!

PART 1: THE NEED FOR ORGANIZATIONS

|: has been apparent for some time that
the successful conduct of the occupation
of Germany requires, coordinated administra-
tion in the basic economic fields of foreign
trade, industry, food and agriculture, finance,
communications and transportation. This
need has been recognized in General Eisen-
hower’s report to the President, the report
of Byron Price who as special representative
of the President made a factfinding survey
of Germany last fall, and also has been

12

repeatedly emphasized by the Monthly Re-
ports of the Military Governor.

The pressing need for coordination on
more than Land level has been shown by the
establishment in the US, British and Soviet
Zones of intrazonal coordinating agencies. In
the US Zone the Laenderrat was established
primarily as a coordinating body, but with
the passage of time it has been obliged to
assume administrative functions in such
fields as transportation, communications and

--- Page 16 ---
food. These trends illustrate the basic im-
portance of greater central controls in sev-
eral phases of governmental operation.

An informal liaison relationship between
several of the zones has already been estab-
lished to case the difficulties arising in the
economic field. It is to be expected that
these liaison relationships will spread to other
areas in which the exchange of information
between the zones and the establishment of
uniform practices within the several zones
become necessary.

MEASURES INADEQUATE

These measures for interzonal coordina-
tion, however, have proved to be totally in-
adequate as instrumentalities for the success-
ful conduct of the functions outlined in the
Berlin Protocol. Furthermore, the interzonal
coordinating arrangements resulting from
the lack of central agencies may act as a
deterrent to ultimate treatment of Germany
as a whole.

The volume of technical details with
which any.central administration is con-
cerned makes it undesirable and mechanic-
ally impossible for the Allied Control
Authority to carry on such functions, since
it requires a large staff of German special-
ists with expert knowledge of German
economy in general and of their respective
economic field in particular. The Allied
Control Authority must be enabled to con-
centrate on major policy decisions and con-
trol functions, whereas each central admini-
strative department would be charged with
carrying out the implementation of agreed-
upon policies.

COORDINATION NECESSARY

The Plan for Reparations and the Level
of Postwar German Economy agreed upon
by the Allied Control Council.assumes treat-
ment of Germany as a single economic unit.
This will be possible only if common policies
can be implemented by the coordinated effort
of central administrative agencies.

Sufficient industrial facilities are to be
left in Germany to maintain, without exter-
nal assistance, a standard of living not ex-

13

ceeding the average of Europe, excluding
UK and USSR. Under this standard, ex-
ports are planned as 3,000,000,000 marks
and sufficient industrial capacity is to be
retained to produce goods to this value as
well as to cover internal requirements. Such
exports are necessary in order to pay for
essential imports. The major import require-
ments, food and fodder, must be imported
in the amount of 1,500,000,000 marks an-
nually. Effective utilization of industrial fa-
cilities to be retained under the plan is nec-
essary in order to obtain sufficient produc-
tion for these purposes, and food require-
ments are based on maximization of agri-
cultural output. These objectives, however,
cannot be obtained without the necessary
central German administrative departments
as the instruments of coordination and im-
plementation of common policies.

DISTRIBUTION OF RESOURSES

The tremendous burden of food importa-
tion imposed upon the Allies has highlighted
the need for development of German exports
to pay for those imports. In order to ac-
complish this, it is apparent that there must
be common policies with regard to the equit-
able distribution of indigenous resources;
uniform standards for the approval of im-
ports, the sharing of proceeds from the ex-
ports and of prices and currencies to be re-
ceived in payment for exports, accounting,
auditing and documentation and maintenance
of statistical data; and finally, coordination
of import-export programs with industrial
production and food programs for Germany
as a whole.

Implementation of these policies will re-
quire a Central German Administrative De-
partment for Foreign Trade, since such poli-
cies ‘can be implemented only by means of
a large staff of specialists to handle the ex-
port of the highly specialized finished pro-
ducts on which, in addition to coal and
potash, the revival of foreign trade in Ger-
many depends. In addition, there is the
problem of continual coordination and an-
alysis of a large volume of statistical data
and a variety of similar technical functions

(Continued on page 22)

--- Page 17 ---


--- Page 18 ---
In a court, conducted by the German people,
George Sturm was recently tried under
the Law for Liberation from National Soc-
ialism and Militarism. Found guilty as a

category 2 offender on charges of being an
active Nazi, Sturm was sentenced to three
years at hard labor. In addition the tribunal
ordered confiscation of his home and real
estate property and 50 percent of his other
assets and the loss of civil rights for life. The
verdict came after the case had been heard
for more than 16 hours over a period of two
days during which time 35 witnesses ap-
peared before the tribunal.

(Left) The Rathaus in Heidenheim, Germany, where
the trial was held; (right) Sturm and his defense
counsel stand before the tribunal ; (lower left) members
of the denazification tribunal lisfen to testimony; (lower
right) officers of OMG Wuerttemberg-Baden observe

the court’s proceedings
p z Signal Corps Photos

--- Page 19 ---
GENERAL

German Children Atcd

By MG Welfare Program

A “Vacations in Switzerland” program
designed primarily for undernourished and
sick children from the US Zone and the US
Sector of Berlin, has been devised by the
Public Welfare Section, Internal Affairs
and Communications Division, OMGUS.

The children will be selected by German
welfare agencies, and normally will stay in
Switzerland approximately one month. Cer-
tain groups, such as children with tubercu-
losis or otherwise in need of special medical
attention, may stay for longer periods.

The vacation trips to Switzerland were
authorized following negotiations between
MG and German welfare officials. The
program was prompted by the critical food
situation in Germany and inadequate existing
vacation accomodations in the US Zone. The
great majority of camping facilities in the
US Zone are now being used for refugees
and expellees.

At the same time it will provide a means
of proper supervision for children during
the vacation months. It was pointed out
that the mothers of many German children
are required to work and, consequently,

are unable to give proper attention to their
children.

The program will be continued after the
summer vacation period ends, thus making
available to the children further educational
and health advantages of schools and re-
creation facilities in Switzerland. Similar
vacation trips for children, particularly to
Switzerland, were one of the pre-war
established activities of public and private
welfare agencies in Germany before the
Nazis seized control.

The young vacationers will be children
under 16 years of age. They will travel in
organized groups of 10 or more and while

16

in Switzerland their care and
be the responsibility of a Swiss social
agency. The Land Child Welfare Office in
the Land where the children reside must
either assume responsibility for the de-
velopment and execution of a plan for
assembling, transporting and caring for the
children up to the point they cross the Swiss
border or approve a plan submitted to it by
another German welfare agency. Final ap-
proval must be granted by the Land Office
of MG Public Welfare Officer. Travel do-
cumentation will be issued by the Combined
Travel Security Board, OMGUS.

Dr. Pollock Leaves

Dr. James K. Pollock, who for the past
year has been Director of the Regional
Government Coordinating Office, supervisory
agency of the Laenderrat in Stuttgart, is
returning to his position as Professor of
Political Science at the University of
Michigan. He will be replaced as director
by Col. W. W. Dawson, Director of Military
Government for Wuerttemberg-Baden.

Dr. Pollock assisted in the organization
of the top German civilian administrative
agencies in the US Zone last October, and
headed the MG supervisory office in its
relation to the operation of the Laenderrat,
the Council of States comprising the Mi-
nisters-President of the three Laender.

Dr. Pollock has been on a year’s leave of
absence from the University of Michigan
where he is chairman of the Division of
Social Science.

Necessity of Exports

The export exhibitions being presented
this month by each of the three Laender in
the US Zone mark the beginning of export
of manufacturers’ goods from Germany, Brig
Gen W. H. Draper, Jr., Chief of the Eco-
nomics Division, OMGUS, stated at the open-

--- Page 20 ---
ing of the Wuerttemberg-Baden exhibition
in Stutigart.

“We of Military Government recognize
that a large scale development of the export
industry alone can solve the problem and
only in that way can Germany become self-
supporting,” General Draper said.

The Stuttgart exhibition, which contains
2,500 articles, consists mainly of luxury
items because of the scarcity of raw mate-
rials. This emphasis is designed to increase
the value of the labor in the finished product.

New Identity Card

- The new identification card is now being
distributed to Germans and other nationals
residing in the US Zone. Possession of the
card, known as the “Kennkarte,” is required
by a law passed last April, and execution of
the registration is being carried out by Ger-
man civil authorities.

Included in the information on the card is
an entry by the local German denazification
tribunal indicating whether the German, be-
cause of his Nazi or political background,
can be employed as anything higher than
an ordinary laborer.

At the time the individual registrant pre-
sents his photograph for his “Kennkarte,”
the local police agency is required to take
his fingerprints for police records. Finger-
prints so taken will be assembled in central
police files in the three Laender.

Four Mints Available

Four mints in the US Zone — at Munich,
Stuttgart, Karlsruhe and Nuremberg — can
be put into operation within two weeks, ac-
cording to an investigation by Finance Div-
ision, OMGUS, of the possibility of minting
coins.

A large part of the equipment of the
four mints has been repaired and is in first-
class condition. Sufficient trained personnel
is on hand to work one 48-hour shift a
week.

There is raw material on hand, partially
processed, sufficient to make 18,500,000 one-

17

Pfennig pieces, 4,800,000 five-Pfennig pieces
and nearly 6,000,000 ten-Pfennig pieces. In
addition there are also 27,000 kilos of scrap
zinc on hand.

Berlin Soap Ration

Steps to assure the German civilian pop-
ulation of Berlin a regular monthly basic
soap ration containing 25 grams of fatty
acids per person have been taken by the
Trade and Industry Committee of the Allied
Kommandatura.

The Berlin Magistrat has been ordered to
restrict the types of soap manufactured and
to- provide at least one soap ration each
month to each person. In the past, soap
rations have been distributed irregularly and
in varying amounts in various sectors of
Berlin.

British Zone Activities

Dr. Rudolf Amelunxen, chief president of
Westphalia, has been named Minister-Presi-
dent of the new Land of North Rhine/West-
phalia in the British Zone.

One thousand workers, mostly building
workers, have been shifted from the North
Rhine Region to assist in reconstruction
work in Hamburg.

A total of 13,530 schools had been opened
in the British Zone as of June 30, with total
enrollment of nearly 3,400,000 students.

Senior MG officers in the British Zone
have been granted authority to have as their
guests at MG messes German officials, po-
litical and trade union leaders. The au-
thority was given to encourage confidence
between the British and German officials
engaged in the administration of the zone.

Inmates of homes for the aged and infirm
and of institutes for the blind in the Ham-
burg area are to receive an extra daily ration
of 800 calories.

The German memorial at Laboe, near
Kiel, to the German sailors who died in
World War I is not to be demolished, the
British regional commissioner has decided,
However, certain exhibits are to be removed
from the museum in the memorial.

--- Page 21 ---
ZONE NEWS BRIEFS

A total of 155,000 tons of food, including
bread grains, from the United States, was
unloaded at Bremen during July for distri-
bution in the US areas of Germany. Accord-
ing to OMGUS statistics, about six loaves
of bread out of every ten baked in the US
Zone are made from wheat grown in the
United States.

German railroad employees whose question-
naires are being investigated under the de-
nazification law may be continued in service
until final decisions have been reached by
the tribunals.

ARMY TRUCKS RELEASED

Seventy-five US Army two-and-a-half ton
trucks are being released for German use in
moving ammunition from dumps to salvage
centers for reclamation of needed chemicals
and scrap metals.

About 33,400 unserviceable but repairable
tires and tubes have been released for Ger-
man civilian use in forestry operations, har-
vesting and transporting of fuel wood.
Thirty percent of the motor vehicles used for
hauling timber are now out of operation for
lack of tires.

In cooperation with USFA, arrangements
have been made by OMGUS for reconcilia-
tion between German and Austrian banks of
accounts which were not settled because of
disrupted communications during the final
days of the war.

REUTERS TO SERVICE US ZONE

Reuters, Ltd., British press service, has
been given permission to deal directly with
German licensed newspapers in the US Zone
on substantially the same basis as American
press services.

Directives have been issued in Bavaria re-
quiring that Frogebogen and life histories
of all authors be submitted to MG.

The first request by a high school student
government for permission to print a high
school paper ‘was made in Greater Hesse.

18

Under established policy high school news-
papers may be operated in Greater Hesse
when they are registered with MG.

The German Central Accounting Agency
is to be activated in mid-August at Stuttgart
to control deposit of proceeds from sales of
imported MG supplies, as well as other sup-
plies turned over to the Germans.

RECLAIMING GASOLINE

A program has been initiated under MG
supervision to reclaim gasoline from German
firebomb gelatine. Half a million gallons of
gelatine, of which 75 percent is gasoline,
are available.

Ten thousand metric tons of aluminium
can be salvaged from wrecked airplanes in
the US Zone. Other stocks total 20,000 tons.
This amount is estimated to be sufficient for
essential needs for about five years if the
consumption is controlled. Production of

primary aluminum is prohibited in Ger-
many.

HIGHWAY PROGRAM PLANNED

Land highway maintenance officers are to
initiate the long-range highway mainte-
nance program immediately after receipt of
necessary instructions, data and forms.

An arrangement has been approved by MG
for Czechoslovak crews to operate German
locomotives between Cheb (Eger) and the
German border, in order that interchange
of transportation may be expedited and ca-
pacity increased.

Sufficient insulin has been furnished from
US Army sources to treat all reported dia-
betic cases in Greater Hesse. There was an

acute shortage of insulin in the Land last
fall and winter.

CHILDREN RETURNED TO BERLIN

Approximately 455 children were returned
to Berlin last week from Bavaria. This was
the sixth train shipment of German children
who had been evacuated to Bavaria during
the war.

--- Page 22 ---
TO INFORMATION CONTROL POLLS

Te Office of Information Control OMG-
US, recently made a study of the Ger-
man evaluation of the OIC studies of Ger-
man opinions and reactions — in fact, made a
public opinion survey of its own public sur-
veys—and emerged with the result that an
extremely high proportion of the 1,000 Ger-
mans interviewed approved MG’s policy of
sampling public opinion in the US Zone.
This survey followed the standard technique
designed to give results representative of the
Zone as a whole.

The group which had read results of polls
in the German press constituted roughly a
fifth of the adult population sampled. Closer
examination of this group revealed that
newspaper stories about the polls had at-
tracted greater attention among certain
groups in the population than among others.
For example, many more former members
of the Nazi Party had read about the polls
than had non-Nazis. The polls received
greater attention also from men than from
women and from older people, the better
educated, and those in the higher social and
economic categories.

CLASSIFICATION OF ANSWERS

All respondents were asked, “What do
you think of the method of going directly
to the people in order to question them
about their opinions, as we are doing now?”
A classification of the answers showed that
14 percent were enthusiastically in favor of
the polls, 55 percent thought they were a
“good thing,” 12 percent saw nothing wrong
in the idea» four percent could not “see any
sense to it” and one percent considered the

19

polls like the Gestapo.”
Fourteen percent expressed no opinion.

Asked to explain why they felt as they
did, the more approving respondents said
that it was good to be able to inform the
Americans as to what they thought, and that
the Americans need to see how Germans look
at problems. Appreciation of the freedom to
speak freely and make suggestions was wide-
spread. Typical comments. were: “We can
speak our minds, unburden our hearts, make
suggestions.” “The little people are con-
sulted; it’s democratic.” “MG can find out
in this way what people think and want.”
“It is grand to realize that cooperation bet-
ween people and government can reach this
level. Now we know we live in a democracy.
We put our entire faith in the Americans
and democracy.”

“undemocratic,

REFLECT AMERICAN INTEREST

Three percent felt that the polls might
help the Germans in their present troubles.
One replied, “It is good that the Americans
are interested in us and that they will help
us Germans.” The small group of four per-
cent who voiced complete disapproval said
they thought that opinion surveys were use-
less because people would not be truthful
and because the Americans would not listen.

The decision to undertake scientific public
Opinion surveys in Germany was taken by
MG shorily after the capitulation of the
Wehrmacht. The original purpose was to
determine attitudes among the German po-
pulation which could be corrected or coun-
teracted through information media. Since
then, however, the scope has been conside-
rably broadened and covers a variety of po-
litical, economic and cultural sub jects.

--- Page 23 ---
DAYS OF PARIS PEACE CONFERENCE

Rees editorial opinion during the first
days of the Peace Conference in Paris
stressed the conviction that the voice of
all nations must be heard by the four major
powers, which have final authority over con-
ference decisions, if the conference is to rea-
lize full success. Editorials have also expres-
sed pleasure over the large measure of publi-
city given all activities, and the harmony
with which that decision was reached by US,
British, Soviet and French representatives.
The New York Times editorial said in
part: “The conference will be a success only
if it becomes the voice of the world’s con-
science. It can become that only if it is free
to decide on both procedure and substance in
all matters put before it, with assurance that
its decisions will be honored by those who
have reserved to themselves the right to
draw up the final texts of the peace treaties
— the Big Four. Should this authority be

denied it, should it be degraded to a mere .

rubber stamp, or should its decisions be
flouted by the Big Four, it will be not only
a failure but also an unworthy sham .. .

“In agreeing to the proposal for rules of
procedure, Mr. Byrnes specifically reserved
the right to consider on their merits any
proposals that might come up at the con-
ference; that makes it the primary duty of
the American delegation not to attempt to
impose the will of Big Four on the conference
but to seek to impose the will of the con-
ference on the Big Four.”

The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette: “Our repre-
sentatives go into conference to speak not for
selfish interests of one people but to speak
for a peace capable of being maintained. Re-
presentatives of all peoples can rally around

20

the attitude that decisions based upon justice,
rather than power, are the only basis for
lasting peace.”

The Christian Science Monitor: ““Whatever
else may be said of it, the Paris Conference
accurately mirrors the world we live in. It
mirrors a world aiming to preserve peace not
by world law but by national power. This
is to be expected, if only because the law
does not exist and the power does . . .

“Concentration of power in the hands of
the Big Three ... is not the result of a
Machiavellian scheme by some sections of
mankind to dominate other sections. It is
the outcome of many natural factors which
men develop primarily for peaceful purposes.

“Tt just happens that these add up also to
. . . power. Calling of the Paris Conference
is not an effort to consolidate this power to
the detriment of small nations but to mitigate
its worst effects. It is a step in peace-making
whose watchword must be patience.”

The Washington Post: “Conference will
resolve itself into a testing ground for the
power of world public opinion. In this
respect the United States can play a crucial
role. At London and Moscow and Paris, Se-
cretary Byrnes fought long and valiantly
for a democratic approach to this problem
of peacemaking .. .

“Secretary Byrnes has said he will sup-
port at every turn fullest and freest discus-
sion by all of the 21 nations of every issue
involved in settlements. And if discussion is
full and free the outcome is bound to be
beneficial.”

The San Francisco Chronicle: “Two de-
velopments at Paris promise well: The Rules
Committee recommendation that the press

--- Page 24 ---
have free access to committee hearings and
Mr Byrnes’ announcement that he favors
settlement of disputed issues by two-thirds
vote of all 21 delegates.

“Both developments could strengthen the
influence of the small nations at the confer-
ence. Mr. Byrnes’ decison gives to a small
nation delegate a means of counteracting
mere smallness — an outlet to world opinion.
The two-thirds principle would make more
difficult any treaty decision dictated by mere
bigness.

“Mr Byrnes’. . . promise to use American
influence in support of the (two-thirds) prin-
ciple can in performance make the difference
between the methods of Versailles and of
Luxembourg. . .

“Open covenants openly arrived at’ would
. be one measure of progress since Versailles
— and the other would be Dr. Benes’ being
able to reverse at Paris what he said at
San Francisco, — that ‘small nations are
here to be seen and not heard.’”

Challenge of Atom Bomb

In an interview with Michael Amrine of
The New York Times, Albert Einstein de-
clared that a new type of thinking is needed
to meet the challenge of the atom bomb.

“In the light of new knowledge,” Pro-
fessor Einstein stated, a world authority and
an eventual world state are not just desirable
in the name of brotherhood, they are nec-
essary for survival. In previous ages a
nation’s life and culture could be protected
to some extent by the growth of armies in
national competition. Today we must aban-
don competition and secure cooperation.

This must be the central fact in all our
considerations of international affairs; other-
wise we face certain disaster. Past thinking
and methods did not prevent world wars.
Future thinking must prevent wars.

“Modern war, the bomb, and other dis-
coveries or inventions, present us with revo-
lutionary circumstances. Never before was

21

it possible for one nation to make war on
another without sending armies across bor-
ders. Now with rockets and atomic bombs
no center of population on the earth’s sur-
face is secure from surprise destruction in
a single attack.

“America has a temporary superiority in
armament, but it is certain that we have no
lasting secret. What nature tells one group
of men she will tell in time to any other
group interested and patient enough in
asking the questions. But our temporary
superiority gives this nation the tremendous
responsibility of leading mankind’s effort to
surmount the crisis.

“Being an ingenious people, Americans
find it hard to believe there is no foresee-
able defense against atomic bombs. But this
is a basic fact. Scientists do not even know
of any field which promises us any hope of
adequate defense.

“Reasonable men with these new facts to
consider refuse to contemplate a future in
which our culture would attempt to survive
in ribbons or in underground tombs. Neither
is there reassurance in proposals to keep a
hundred thousand men alert along the coasts
scanning the sky with radar. There is no
radar defense against the V-2, and should
a “defense” be developed after years of
research, it is not humanly possible for any
defense to be perfect. Should one rocket

with an atomic warhead strike Minneapolis,

that city would look almost like Nagasaki.
Rifle bullets kill men, but atomic bombs kill
cities. A tank is a defense against a bullet
but there is no defense in science against the
weapon which can destroy civilization.

“Our defense is not in armaments, nor in
science, nor in going underground. Our de- -
fense is in law and order.

“Henceforth, every nation’s foreign policy
must be judged at every point by one con-
sideration: Does it lead us to a world of law
and order or does it lead us back toward
anarchy and death? I do not believe that
we can prepare for a war and at the same
time prepare for a world community.”

--- Page 25 ---
CENTRAL GERMAN AGENCIES (Continued from page 13)

which are quité ‘dissociated from quadri-
partite policy determination.

Continuance of zonal conirol of foreign
trade will reinforce zonal barriers, with the
following results: Continued restrictions on
zonal trade, since such trade might conflict
with possible exports and therefore. increase
foreign trade deficits; reduction of potential
industrial production, with a resultant re-
duction in availability of commodities for
export and for consumption in Germany;
reduction in potential agricultural produc-
tion, with a resultant increase in import re-
quirements.

UNBALANCED ECONOMY

The present division of the German ec-
onomy into four distinct zones establishes
areas which have neither a self-sufficient in-
dustry nor a balanced economy. Such a di-
vision results in a separation of raw mater-
ials and semi-finished goods from their
processing plants and in separation of com-
ponent manufactures from their markets.
These artificial barriers to normal industrial
processes constitute one of the basic causes
of present low production in Germany. With
the exhaustion of old stocks of raw materials
and semi-manufactured items, the serious-
ness of the situation will increase.

A Central German Administrative Depart-
ment for Industry is required to develop
uniform standards for industrial statistics,
to develop uniform production programs, to
analyze and screen requirements, to propose
allocations, to maintain continuous contact
with the Laender and Provinces, and to
effect the necessary coordination with food
and agriculture and export-import programs.

FOOD AND AGRICULTURE
The Berlin Protocol does not specifically
provide for a Central German Administra-
tive Department for Food and Agriculture.
This department, however, must be included
because of the critical and dangerous food
situation, which requires every effort be

made to maximize agricultural output.
Present zone boundaries ignore the inter-
dependence and complementary nature of

22

the various agricultural regions. Failure to
recognize this interdependence makes maximi-
zation of agricultural output impossible,
because an intensified food production, pro-
cessing and distribution system cannot be
developed. Furthermore, agricultural eco-
nomy depends upon industry for necessary
supplies and equipment. The zone type of
organization has destroyed the uniformity of
this industrial production and eliminated the
close agricultural and industrial inter-
dependence which would normally develop.
Failure to maximize agricultural output will
increase the need for imports beyond those
envisaged under the agreed level of postwar
economy. As a consequence, Germany cannot
become self-supporting and occupation costs
will be tremendously increased. Finally, this
will result in the assignment of food to Ger-
many from other nations in the world which
cannot afford to share their supplies.

FINANCIAL PROBLEMS

A Central Finance Agency is necessary as
a coordinating and service agency in respect
to the financial operations of other central
departmants, and as an advisory body to the
Allied Control Authority in respect to the
inter-relations of finance problems through-
out Germany and all its political sub-
divisions. If the central departments have
their own revenues, these need technical
supervision; if they depend on Land and
Province contributions, there must be advice
upon allocations and follow-up on col-
lections; in either case, there must be advice
as to distribution between departments.

In'a world made small by improvements
in methods of communication, a single central
agency is required to administer the com-
munications and postal services in Germany.
The present delays in the operation of long
distance telegraph and telephone lines must
obviously be considered as a serious det-
riment to the rebirth of a socially and
economically healthy community. Similarly,
there is a pressing need for prompt inter-
zonal mail service. The operations of tele-
phone, telegraph, posts and other communi-

--- Page 26 ---
cation services are unduly and unfortunately
circumscribed by an artificial division of
Germany into four distinct and air-tight
zones.

Closely. related to communications, the
transportation system reflects many of the
same needs. The existence of zonal boun-
daries necessitates uneconomical cross-hauling
and prevents the maximum use of available
equipment for the entire system. Further-
more, international traffic has been tre-
mendously handicapped by difficulties
arising from the fact that each zone deter-
mines its own routes, establishes its own
schedules, sets its own standards of quality
of traffic, prescribes its own rates, allocates
equipment in terms of its own needs and
makes other similar purely provincial de-
cisions. Finally, in the absence of coordina-
tion of the system as a whole, a confused

rate structure develops which is preventing
rail, water and highway transport from at-
tracting the business for which each is best
fitted, and thus forces these carriers into
inefficient and uneconomical operation.

A thoughtful examination of the forego-
ing statement of needs for the central agen-
cies must impress one with the seriousness
of the situation. Economic ruin must con-
tinue in Germany if the activities in the
fields of foreign trade, industry, food and
agriculture, finance, communications .and
transportation are not centralized to meet
the emergency. It must also be apparent
that economic ruin in Germany has far-
reaching consequences in other parts of the
world. In a very real sense, it may be said
that the fundamental need for the establish-
ment of central agencies in Germany rests
upon factors implicit in world-wide economy.

AMERICAN POLICY FOR OCCUPATION (Continued from page 6)

create a strong and democratic local self-
government, protect the freedom of the press,
the integrity of courts and judical pro-
cedures, and the honesty of the civil service,
and to build up the political safeguards of a
constitution and of the legal rights of in-
dividuals. We are trying to prevent the Ger-
mans from being overcome by propaganda
such as that used by the spellbinder Goebbels
in the fateful twelve-year period 1933 to
1945. Dr. Goebbels used the press and radio
and organized public meetings with military
bands, loud speakers, torch-light processions,
flying flags, and every other trick of modern
publicity and political propaganda to over-
come all opposition and hypnotize the Ger-
mans into believing what he wanted them to
believe. We cannot use, the same methods,
because it is essential that we teach the
Germans to be independent in their thinking
and critical of propaganda. In order to
teach the Germans to be democratic we must
assure that democratic methods are used in
the teaching. Moreover, we must rely on
methods that will continue to be effective
after we return to America. Therefore in-

stead of developing American agencies to
feed Germans a stream of American journa-
listic and radio news and American political
ideas, we have to work by encouraging the
native German political elements which are
truly liberal and democratic. It is only by
building up a German democracy in Ger-
many that we can be sure conditions are
permanently satisfactory so that American
troops can be withdrawn.

Hitler had twelve years after he reached
complete power to propagandize the Ger-
mans of all ages with Nazi ideas. The war
has been a great jolt to these Nazis and
their followers, and the Nazi believers now
do not know what to believe. To build up
a strong positive belief in a German demo-
cracy will obviously take a great period of
time in the present politically disillusioned
Germany. This is our fourth great objective
in Germany and we shall still be working
on it years after the other three have been
complete. When the fourth objective is
completed the military occupation of Ger-
many can safely be ended, and not before.

--- Page 27 ---
STATION LIST

MILITARY GOVERNMENT ELEMENTS

UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR

LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Joseph T McNarney pose
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, US

Office of Mil Gov for
Germany, US

Office of Mil Gov for

Berlin

LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay,
vena Military Governor
Maj Gen C L Adcock,
Asst Deputy Mil Governor

Wiirttemberg-Baden Stuttgart Col W W Dawson
1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 154)
Hq 1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart Col W W Dawson
Hq & Sv Co Stuttgart Ist Lt J P Clifford
Stuttgart Area
*SK Stuttgart Stuttgart Lt Col C L Jackson
*LK Boéblingen Béblingen Ist Lt O P Johnson
*LK Esslin; Esslingen Capt N Semaschko, Jr
*LK Ludwigsburg Ludwigsburg Maj S A Warren
*LK Waiblingen Waiblingen Capt J B Cress
*LK Backnang Backnang Capt R Forrest
*LK Leonberg Leonberg Capt W J Vallaza
*LK Niirtingen Nirtingen Capt P F Sullivan
*LK Vaihingen Vaihingen Ist Lt U S Aiello
Mannheim Area
*SK Mannheim Mannheim Maj M L Hoover
*SK/LK Heidelberg Heidelberg Lt Col W T Burt
*LK Buchen Buchen Ist Lt C H Wright
*LK Mosbach Mosbach Capt I D Claxton
*LK Tauberbischofsheim Tauberbischofsheim Capt N W Barber
*LK Sinsheim Sinsheim Capt K R Plessner
Karlsruhe Area
*SK/LK Karlsruhe Karlsruhe Maj W T Neel
*SK/LK Pforzheim Pforzheim Maj RH Stimson
*LK Bruchsal Bruchsal Ist Lt L. L. Goldman
Heilbronn Area
*LK Heilbronn Heilbronn Maj M W Terry
*LK Crailsheim Crailsheim Ist Lt R E Alley
*LK Schw. Hall Schw. Hall Capt C S Keena
*LK Kuenzelsau Kuenzelsau Capt C E McGaffey
*LK Mergentheim Mergentheim Capt B V Bloom
*LK Oehringen Oehringen ist Lt M Korsun

* Liaison and Security

24

--- Page 28 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR ‘OR

MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER
Ulm Area
*LK Ulm Ulm Lt Col A G Spitz
*LK Aalen Aalen Capt R H Nation
*LK Schw. Gmuend Schw. Gmuend Capt J E Switzer
*LK Goeppingen Goeppingen Capt R Kennedy
*LK Heidenheim Heidenheim Capt R N Thapp

Office of Mil Gov
for Greater Hesse

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Hq Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Sv Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
US Ln Det (Ruhr)

US Ln Det (Saar)

*SK Frankfurt
*SK Wiesbaden
*LK Wetzlar
*LK Dill

*LK Gelnhausen
*LK Biedenkopf
*SK/LK Hanau
*LK Oberlahn
*LK Limburg
*LK Maintaunus
*LK Rheingau
*LK Obertaunus
*LK Usingen
*LK Untertaunus
*LK Schluechtern

*SK/LK Kassel
*LK Melsungen
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*LK Ziegenhain
*SK/LK Marburg
*SK/LK Fulda
*LK Hinfeld
*LK Waldeck
*LK Frankenberg
*LK Eschwege
*LK Witzenhausen
*LK Hersfeld
*LK Rotenburg
*LK Hofgeismar
*LK Wolfhagen

¥*SK/LK Darmstadt
*LK Gross-Gerau
*SK/LK Offenbach
*LK Bergstrasse
*LK Erbach

*LK Biidingen

* Liaison and Security

LAND GREATER HESSE
Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

Wiesbaden
Wiesbaden
Oberursel

Frankfurt
Wiesbaden
Wetzlar
Dillenburg
Gelnhausen
Biedenkopf
Hanau
Weilburg
Limburg
Hofheim
Riidesheim
Bad Homburg
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
Schluechtern

Kassel
Melsungen
Fritzlar
Ziegenhain
Marburg
Fulda
Hiinfeld
Korbach
Frankenberg
Eschwege
Witzenhausen
Hersfeld
Rotenburg
Hofgeismar
Wolthagenn

Darmstadt
Gross-Gerau
Offenbach
Heppenheim
Erbach
Biidingen

25

Cel J R Newman

Lt Col S S Graham
Capt H E York
Capt B A Sturdevan
Capt R Gutzwiller

Maj G C Sola
Maj M E Chotas
Capt M S Clark
Capt E G Stolper
Capt J G Bennas
Capt T E Fairloth
Maj E J Emerick
Capt A G Volz
Capt P H Olsen
Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hintz
Capt L F Jones
Capt R F Gibney
Capt T W Harris
Capt E M Jacobson

Lt Col W R Swarm
Maj W C Gipple
Capt G D Fexy
Capt R B Elwell
Lt Col C Reed

Lt Col H R Cress
Capt E T Tedick
Capt D W Shea
Maj L S Williams
Maj G P Moore
Capt A Quam
Maj M Baymor
Capt G W Davis
Capt L R Allen
Capt H A Karas

Maj W R Sheehan
Capt G E Schmoeker
Maj R A Gish

Lt Col J C Rose
Capt R O Didlp

-Maj D M Easterday

--- Page 29 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

*LK Dieburg
*LK Friedberg
*SK/LK Giessen
*LK Lauterbach
*LK Alsfeld

Office of Mil Gov
for Bavaria

Hq 3rd Mil Govt Regt
Hq Company
Sv Company

Co A

*SK/LK Wurzburg
*SK/LK Aschaffenburg
*SK/LK Schweinfurt
*LK Kissingen

*LK Kitzingen

*LK Alzenau

*LK Bruckenau

*LK Ebern

*LK Gemunden

*LK Gerolzhofen

*LK Hammelburg
*LK Hassfurt

*LK Hofheim

*LK Karlstadt

*LK Konigshofen
*LK Lohr

*LK Markt Heidelfeld
*LK Mellrichstadt
*LK Miltenberg

*LK Neustadt a. d. Salle
*LK Obernburg

*LK Ochsenfurt

LAND GREATER HESSE (Cont'd)

Dieburg
Friedberg
Giessen
Lauterbach
Alsfeld

LAND BAVARIA
Munich

3rd Mil Gov Regt
(APO 170)

Munich
Munich
Munich

Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken

Wurzburg
Wurzburg
Aschaffenburg
Schweinfurt
Bad Kissingen
Kitzingen
Alzenau
Bruckenau
Ebern
Gemunden
Gerolzhofen
Hammelburg
Hassfurt
Hofheim
Karlstadt
Konigshofen
Lohr

Markt Heidelfeld
Mellrichstadt
Miltenberg
Neustadt a. d. Salle
Obernburg
Ochsenfurt

Capt J S Chapin
Capt C S Parshall
Maj C F Russe
Captd T Hughes
Capt H B Miller

Brig Gen W J Mueller

Col C C Morgen
Capt Willard Seale
Capt L R Clark

Lt Col M E Henderson
Maj M B Voorhees
Lt Col M C Crouse
Maj G M Marsh
Maj R W Kernidi
Maj E H Emry
Capt A T Neumann
Capt A G Grodzinski
Capt G E Brock
Capt J J Cotter

1st Lt G F Feehan
Capt K L Ellis
Capt R E Hellmig
Capt F L Beelby
Capt W_E Brayden
Capt C Boden

Capt E E Kelly
Capt T F Griffin
Ist Lt L K Owens
Capt J L Hinkel
Maj H P Clark
Capt M B Jaeger
Capt I A Lowell

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

CoB

SK/LK Nurnberg
*SK/LK Bamber;
“*SK/LK Bayreutl
*SK/LK Erlangen
*SK/LK Coburg
*SK/LK Hof
*SK/LK Ansbach
*SK/LK Furth
*SK/LK Kulmbach
*LK Kronach

*LK Lichtenfels
*LK Ebermannstadt
*LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
*LK Pegnitz

*LK Munchberg

* Liaison and Security

Ansbach
Nurnberg
Bamber;
Bayreutl
Erlangen
Coburg

Hof

Ansbach
Furth
Kulmbach
Kronach
Lichtenfels
Ebermannstadt
Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
Pegnitz
Munchberg

26

Col E M Haight

Lt Col A T Callico
Lt Col J R Case

Lt Col S M Guild
Lt Col F Robie

Maj S Klein

Maj H L Woodall
Lt Col W R Whitaker
Maj A C Abbott
Maj H C Kauffman
Maj H T Lund
Maj F W Crimp
Maj R T Boyer
Capt C E Palmer
Capt M G Stamatis
Maj R C Anderson

--- Page 30 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken (Cont'd)

*LK Rehau

*LK Wunsiedel
*LK Forhheim
*LK Dinkelsbuhl
*LK Eichstatt
*LK Feuchtwangen
*LK Gunzenhausen
*LK Hersbruck
*LK Hipolstein
*LK Weissenburg
*LK Rothenburg
*LK Schwabach
*LK Scheinfeld
*LK Uffenheim
*LK Lauf

*LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch
*LK Naila

*LK Stadtsteinach

Rehau
Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbuhl
Eichstatt
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Hersbruck
Hilpolstein
Weissenburg
Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld
Windsheim
Lauf
Neustadt a. d. Aisch
Naila
Stadtsteinach

Capt L De Ford
Maj T Cleary
Maj H W Zurn
Capt W W Russel
Capt R J Towle
Capt B A Morgan
Maj R J Nielson
Capt D S Stroup
Capt J C Stanley
Lt Col J C Barnet
Maj F K Hinchey
Maj R E Stringer
Capt G B Jones
Capt L C Wheeler
Capt J J Carr
Maj C J Cody
Capt G N Hultzen
1Lt L W Dilzard

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern und Oberpfalz

Co D
*SK/LK Regensburg

*SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt a. d. Wald

*SK/LK Passau
*SK/LK Amberg
*SK/LK Landshut
*SK/LK Straubing
*LK Cham

*LK Burglengenfeld
*LK Parsberg

*LK Tirschenreuth
*LK Neunberg vorm Wald
*LK Eschenbach

*LK Deggendorf

*LK Eggenfelden

*LK Grafenau,

*LK Kelheim

*LK Landau a. d. Isar
*LK Pfarrkirchen
*LK Regen

*LK Vilshofen

*LK Vilsbiburg

*LK Wolfstein

*LK Kemnath

*LK Nabburg

*LK Oberviechtach
*LK Riedenberg

*LK Vohenstrauss
*LK Roding

*LK Waldmuenchen
*LK Beilngries

*LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
*LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg
*LK Bogen

*LK Dingolfing

*LK Griesbach

*LK Kotzting

*LK Mainburg

*LK Mallersdorf

*LK Rottenburg

*LK Viechtach

*LK Wegscheid

* Liaison and Security

Regensbur;
Regensburg 2
Weiden
Passau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunberg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau a. d. Isar
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen’
Vilsbiburg
Wolfstein
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldmuenchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach
Kotzting
Mainburg
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
Wegscheid

27

Col Hastings

Capt J W Boffert
Maj H Hardt

Maj H L Snapp
Capt Boyd

Maj T R Coykendall
Capt G L Miller
Ist Lt E A McNamara
Ist Lt R W Crowley
Maj Carlson

Capt L R Mariels
Ist Lt L W Kutz
Capt R O Woodward
ist Lt H Cohen

Lt Fuchs

Capt R M McWhorter '
Capt D Stacy

Ist Lt H Fueglein
Ist Lt N Ugland

Ist Lt Henry

Lt Col Nichols

2/Lt J D Brooks
Capt M J Jarvis

Ist Lt Richards
Capt A J Garllant
Ist Lt J H Boyd
Maj Corbin

Capt J F Leech

Ist Lt Hurley

Maj Hichcock

Maj E Fichter

Ist Lt R Daniel

Ist Lt W A Graham
Ist Lt W. Y Murphey
Maj Robertson

Ist Lt G L Thomas
Lt J C Mitchell

Ist Lt R Dustin

Lt P A Nesbit

Ist Lt C G Dansby
Capt R E Pike

Ist Lt K J Miller

--- Page 31 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Co E

*SK/LK Munich
*SK/LK Rosenheim
*SK/LK Ingolstadt
*SK/LK Freising
*LK Miesbach

*LK Traunstein
*LK Altoetting

*LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen
*LK Erding

*LK Laufen

*LK Muhldorf

*LK Wasserburg
*LK Toelz

*LK Aibling

*LK Fuerstenfeldbruck
*LK Landsberg
*LK Pfaffenhofen
*LK Starnberg

*LK Weilheim

*LK Wolfratshausen
*LK Berchtesgaden
*LK Ebersberg

*LK Aichach

*LK Schrobenhausen
*LK Dachau

*LK Schongau

Co G

*SK/LK Augsburg
*SK/LK Kempten
*LK Dillingen

*LK Neu Ulm

*LK Sonthofen

*LK Donauwérth
*LK Gunzber;

*LK Markt Oberdorf
*LK Memmingen
*LK Mindelheim
*LK Neuberg

*LK Nordlingen
*LK Fussen

*LK Krumbach

*LK Illertissen

*LK Kaufbeuren
*LK Wertingen
*LK Friedberg

*LK Schwabmunchen

Office of Mil Gov for
US Sector Berlin District

Office of Mil Gov for
Bremen Enclave (US)
Wesermiinde Detachment

* Liaison and Security

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Munich
Munich
Rosenheim
Ingolstadt
Freising
Miesbach
Traunstein
Altoetting
Partenkirchen
Erding

Laufen
Muhldorf
‘Wasserburg
Bad Toelz

Bad Aiblin
Fuerstenfeldbruck
Landsberg
Pfaffenhofen
Starnberg
Weilheim
Wolfratshausen
Berchtesgaden
Ebersberg
Aichach
Schrobenhausen
Dachau
Schongau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Augsburg
Augsburg
Kempten
Dillingen
Weissenhorn
Sonthofen
Donauwérth
Gunzberg
Markt Oberdorf
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Nordlingen
Fussen
Krumbach
Tllertissen
Kaufbeuren
Wertingen
Friedberg
Schwabmunchen

US SECTOR BERLIN DISTRICT

(APO 755)

Berlin

BREMEN ENCLAVE
(APO 1751)

Bremen
Wesermiinde

28

Lt Col R J Philpott
Lt Col E Keller
Capt R H Necel

Lt Col J H Kelly
Lt Col H E Blakeley
Capt W A Loveett
Capt V L Thom
Capt C A Larimer
Maj M W Nitz

Maj C A Brown
Capt N W Borring
Capt W M Forys
Capt D Root

Capt W_N Dickerson
Maj E J H Newmeyer
1st Lt C C Boatwright
Maj C A Rein

Capt O M Cole

Maj C E Carlson
Capt M J Groves
Maj P L Steers Jr
Maj M Lawrence
Capt E J Pennetto
Capt L R Day

Capt H J Bierman
Maj A G Snow
Capt C S Garber

Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Maj R A Wagner
Maj R J Paul

Capt J A Morris
Maj J E Rhea

Capt M G Kruglinski
Ist Lt E A Eaton

Ist Lt H V_ Worthington
1st Lt M W Tlepfer
Capt L A Proger
Capt W F Bradley
Capt C L Hopkins
Capt J N Urtes

Capt F W Guzak
Capt J O Renalds
Maj A E Elliot

Lt P F Moskowitz
Capt D J Moran
Capt J W Kenne

Col F L Howley

Col B C Welker
Lt Col LS Diggs