--- Page 2 ---
os
=r
—
ary
=
—
—
=
oo
—
|
ica
ri
—
=

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

NUMBER 53 / 5 AUGUST 1946

--- Page 3 ---


--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

IN MATION

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S. ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL LETTERS AND INSTRUCTIONS

Third Replacement Depot

Ordinary Leaves Furloughs to the US. .
Downgrading of Classified Records
Representation of Foreign Interests.

Channel for Communication with the Reichspost.
Tables of Distribution and Allowances.

Personnel Recruiting Representatives .

Publication of Regulation No. 1 issued by the German External
Property Commission .

Control Council Law No. 33. "Census of the German Population” .

AG 322 AGO
10 July 1946, USFET

Circular No. 104
13 July 1946, USFET

AG 312.1 GCT-AGO
20 July 1946, USFET

AG 014.12 (DP)
22 July 1946, OMGUS

AG 311 (IA)
22 July 1946, OMGUS

AG 320.3 (CO)
23 July 1946, OMGUS

AG 230 (PO)
24 July 1946, OMGUS

AG 014.12 (FD)
24 July 1946 OMGUS

AG 010 (CA)
26 July 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
Signal Corps Photo

NOON-DAY MEAL — The picture on this
week's cover shows a group of boys sitting
next fo the 18th Public School Building in the
Friedenau District, US Sector of Berlin, eating
their lunch which consists of soup made from
asparagus, spinich and other vegetables.

s

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Edward O. Strobel wrote the article
"Rotsdam” after a recent conducted tour of
the site of last year's historic conference.
Mr. Strobel, who is with the External Assets
Branch of the Finance Division, OMGUS,
made his first trip to Potsdam in 1937 while
he was studying in Germany as an exchange
student at the University of Goettingen.

The material for “Coal: A Four-Zone Prob-
lem” was furnished by Carl W. Cloe, a coal
research analyst for the Coal and Non-Metallic
Metals Section, Industry Branch, Economics
Division, OMGUS. A graduate and former
instructor of economics at the University of lowa,
Mr. Cloe served with the Foreign Economics

inistration before joining OMGUS.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Maximizing German Agriculture
Coal: A Four-Zone Problem
Potsdam

Democratizing Information Services

Constabulary Raid
GENERAL
GERMAN REACTIONS
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENT
STATION LIST

PAGE

11
13
14

16
19
20
24

--- Page 7 ---


--- Page 8 ---
mM”: southern German soil will feel the
bite of the plow in 1947 than in any
year since 1938, as the most intensive food
production program yet attempted is begun
in the US Zone.

Prepared through the joint efforts of
agricultural specialists of the Laenderrat
and the OMGUS Food and Agriculture
Branch, an agricultural production plan for
1947, which has received MG approval,
envisions the exploitation of every acre of
cultivatable land in the US Zone for the
growth of food products.

The program will be supervised by
farmers committees, three to be assigned to
each Gemeinde in the Zone. It embraces three
principal objectives, as follows:

1. The maximum area possible including
unproductive meadows and pastures, to be
devoted to crop land.

2. Direct consumption crops to be in-
creased to the maximum especially potatoes,
sugar beets, oil seeds, and vegetable crops.

3. Livestock numbers to be reduced by
approximately nine percent below the level
as of 3 December 1945, to bring livestock
numbers into line with available fodder, the
supply of which will be reduced by con-
centration on direct-consumption crops. This
is to be accomplished by selective culling
and by eliminating unproductive animals.

MAXIMUM CULTIVATION

The program provides for a total area of
land under cultivation approximately equal
to that of 1938, which marked the maximum
ever under cultivation in the Zone. The total
area planted crops this year will be 612,808
acres greater than 1945.

In Table 1 a comparison is made between

AGRICULTURE

the proportion of the arable land previously
planted to each product and that proposed
for late 1946 and 1947. Breadgrain acreage
will be increased by 17 percent over 1944-45;
potatoes by 40 percent; commercial vege-
tables by 57 percent; oilseeds by 45 percent;
and sugar beets by 211 percent.

During the past year OMGUS fostered
many other measures designed to increase
food production in the Zone. Great effort
has been directed toward improving the
supply of commercial fertilizer and seeds.
In addition, efforts have been made to in-
crease the production of spare parts for
agricultural machinery, to reorganize the
agricultural extension service, and to support
the work of German farm cooperative
societies.

INCREASING FERTILIZER SUPPLY

To increase the supply of fertilizer, action
has been directed both toward enlarging
domestic production and toward facilitating
imports. Potash mines in the US Zone have
been reactivated, and the calcium cyanamide
production at Trostberg has been expanded.
Arrangements have been made with the
French to ship ammonia water to Hoechst
to be made into calcium ammonium nitrate.
From the British Zone, phosphates have
been shipped into the US Zone in the form
of basic slag; 16,000 tons of the 40,000 tons
of phosphate rock imported from North
Africa have been processed in the British
Zone. Further imports have consisted of
5,000 tons of ammonium nitrate from Eng-
land and 10,000 metric tons of superphos-
phate from Belgium.

Due to the shortage of fertilizer this spring,

The area around Berlin's Tiergarten is being 5
plowed up as Germany moves to utilize more
land for agriculural production. Signal,Corps Photo

--- Page 9 ---
first priority was given to oil seeds, sugar
beets and vegetable crops. Sufficient
nitrogen and potash were available to cover
the planned acreage for these crops and for

a portion of the potato crop. Thus, no
nitrogen or phosphate was available for
spring use on grains and other crops and
decreased yields must be anticipated, partic-

Table 1: Comparative Use of Arable Land (US Zone)

Percent Percent | Percent
Land Use 1938 | 1945 | of 1938 || 1°47 | of 1938 | of 1945
(In thousand hectares — 1 hectare = 2.5 acres)
Breadgrains 1,227.7 |) 1,011.0 82 1,186.2 97 117
Other grains 1,005.4 836.4 83 759.7 76 91
Potatoes 512.7 | 418.2 82 589.2 | 115 ‘41
Pulses: as fodder 18.6 24.2 130 31.0 167 128
as food . 6.6 14.2 215 36.5 553 257
Vegetables . 27.9 34.7 124 54.5 195 157
Oil seeds 11.6 50.7 437 73.5 634 145
Sugar beets 35.3 16.1 46 50.0 142 311
Fodder beets . 238.1 292.7 123 256.6 108 88
Other root crops . 9.3 5.2 56 3.3 35 63
Flax and hemp . 11.6 6.2 53 14.4 120 232
Tobacco . 6.0 0.7 12 48 80 687
Other industrial crops . 0.8 3.0 375 4.5 563 150
Legumes and grasses on
cropland and temporarily
uncultivated land . 606.1 735.7 121 633.0 104 86
Total cropland 3,717.7 || 3,449.0 93 3,697.2 99.4 107
Meadows and pastures . 2,191.0 || 2,337.0 107 2,183.3 99.6 93
Vineyards . 22.8 19,4 85 16.8 74 87
Orchards etc. . 130.2 135.2 104 145.7 112 108
Hops . 75 41 55 7.2 96 176
Total hectarage for agri-
cultural purposes 6,069.2 || 5,945.6 98 6,050.2 99.7 102

--- Page 10 ---
ularly in grains which are already showing
the effect of lack of adequate fertilizers.

The US Zone of Germany has always
been dependent on imports from other zones
of Germany and from other countries for
about 90 percent of her field and vegetable
seeds.

US CONTRIBUTION

As of 31 May, a total of 17,800 metric tons of
seed — 14,500 tons of fields and 3,430 tons
of vegetable — had been imported into the
US-occupied areas of Germany and released
for civilian use. About 70 percent came
directly from the United States. Approxi-
mately $6,500,000 has been spent for seed
to meet the 1946 production plan. The most
important seed imports are shown in Table 2,
together with the country of origin.

A seed import from the US with great
potential importance was hybrid corn, a
hither-to unknown crop in Germany. It was
introduced this year in the US Zone as an
experiment to help alleviate the inability of
southern Germany to grow sufficient grains
to meet its own needs. A total of 4,340
metric tons of corn, seed was imported,
mostly for fodder growing purposes.

Among other production requisites im-
ported for agriculture were 500 tons of ar-
senic for insecticides, 5,000 tons of cotton

for sacks and twine, 3,000 tons of hemp for
binder twine and 5,500 tons of sulphate pulp
for sacks, binder and paper.

During the last four war years the pro-
duction of farm machinery declined, the
materials being diverted to war purposes.
Efforts have been made to reestablish this
industry, but with shortages of steel, coal
and other materials, the industry at present
is only operating at about eight percent of
pre-war capacity. The available steel and
iron is being used principally for the manu-
facture of spare parts in an effort to keep
machines now on farms in operation.

REBUILDING EXTENSION. SERVICE

After dismissing about 70 percent of the
agriculture extension agents because of their
Nazi affiliations MG is also concerned with
rebuilding the extension service. Ap-
proximately one-third of the 162 agricultural
schools have been reopened. At one in Ba-
varia prospective agents have been given a
special training course. If they are ap-
pointed, there would be enough agents to
staff two-thirds of the schools. Agricultural
cooperatives, through their newspapers and
community meetings have helped to maintain
production and delivery morale and to fight
the black marketing of commodities.

Table 2: Seed Imports (US Zone)

Country of origin aap Type of seeds
United States . 12,350 Vegetable
Soviet Zone . 1,450 Sugar and fodder beet
United Kingdom . 1,410* Sugar beet, field turnips
Netherlands . 1,345 Peas, vegetable, flax
Denmark . 825 Vegetable-grass, fodder
France 300 Alfalfa
Czechoslovakia . 100 Red clover
Italy 100 Hemp

* Including 390 tons from US lend-lease to UK.

--- Page 11 ---
Germans, like these two children above, must scrounge for coal in the rubble of
ruined buildings because of the present shortage of the commodity in the US Zone.

: T lack of sufficient indigenous coal for
essential German industry, trans-
portation and civilian use is a four-zone
problem and this fact has been now rec-
ognized by the naming of a committee of
experts from the occupying governments to
make a comprehensive study of the situation
and to report its recommendations.
Germany, as a whole, is a coal-rich
country, but the region comprising the US
Zone is nature’s stepchild — its deposits are
scant, of poor quality and widely scattered.
The areas to the west, north and east were
more liberally endowed. However, the
number of available miners, working con-
ditions, equipment and transportation also
have an important effect on coal production.
Concerning the lack of indigenous coal in
the US Zone, the June report of the Mili-

tary Governor said: “Over-all output is in-
adequate to supply either essential require-
ments in the industrial field or a minimum
of consumer goods, to provide work for all
seeking employment, or to provide an over-
all zonal industrial income sufficient to
assure the standard of living provided for
in the Potsdam Agreement and in the Plan
for Reparations and the Level of Postwar
German Economy.”

QUADRIPARTITE COAL COMMITTEE

To determine what should be done to
improve coal production, the Allied Coor-
dinating Committee at its meeting 23 July ap-
proved the establishing of a coal committee.
Mr. Max H. Forester of the OMGUS Econ-
omics Division was named the American rep-

Signal Corps Photo

--- Page 12 ---
resentative. The representatives of the
other occupying powers are. Mr. Kurnashov,
USSR; M. Parisot, France; and Brigadier
Marley, United Kingdom.

The committee was directed to submit to
the four governments by 10 August a report
on measures which should be taken to in-
crease German coal production and on the
basic principles for the allocation of the coal
between home consumption and export. - The
Council of Foreign Ministers has ordered
that the report, after consideration by the
Allied Control Council, is to be submitted to
it by 1 September.

PRODUCTION DURING WAR

During the war, more than 13 million tons
of hard coal and. 21 million tons of brown
coal were dug each month out of the mines
in the area now included in the four zones
of occupation. The June report of the US
Military Governor showed that in May the
production in the same area was 5,165,000
tons of hard coal and 13,353,000 tons of
brown coal.

Manpower was an important factor in
wartime German coal production. Into the
mines went hundreds of thousands of slave
laborers from the over-run countries, pris-
oners of war from the United Nations armed
forces, previously superannuated German
miners, young boys not much taller than the
picks they carried, and women and girls.

COMMERCIAL STATUS

On the commercial side, state-dominated
companies accounted for approximately a
quarter of all coal produced in western Ger-
many. All other companies were, of course,
subject to strict compliance with the Nazi
political and economic principles. For many
years before, however, coal distribution had
been completely dominated by the highly
cartelized coal syndicates, membership in
which was made compulsory by the state.

After the end of the hostilities last year
coal production had shrunk to a few hundred
thousand tons a month. This was both
symptomatic of, and in part the reason for,

the general economic breakdown confronting
the Allies.

Other difficulties also developed in or-
ganizing the producing and distributing
functions of the German:coal industry. De-
centralization: of operation and ‘ownership
has: required the distributing. agencies ‘to
adopt business practices and methods which
are largely unfamiliar to’ men’ accustomed
to cartel methods. Abolition of the:powerful
and exceedingly complex “Rheinisch- West-
faelisches Kohlen-Syndikat, which : dictated
price and production quotas, and regulated
distribution activities of. all’ hard. coal ‘min-
ing companies in the Ruhr-Aachen-Saar dis-
tricts, forced new problems upon the in-
dividual companies. a

The denazification program has also had
its effect, especially on management.’ Prac-
tically all the directors and managers of the
Rhine-Westphalian syndicate have been sep-
arated from their positions in the industry
and interned.

TRANSPORT PROBLEMS

Transport problems were of primary sig-
nificance in coal distribution between June
1945 and March 1946. Disruption caused by
wartime destruction of bridges and tracks,
lack of rolling stock and difficulties of inter-
zonal coordination made it necessary to im-
pose a ceiling on coal distribution. Since
coal cannot be stockpiled in unlimited quant-
ities, this in turn affected output require-
ments. Coal and coke stockpiled by the Ger-
mans during the war amounted to about six
million tons, not including Silesia. With the
easing of the transport difficulties, with-
drawals during 1946 have reduced these re-
serves by more than half.

Lack of mining supplies and deterioration
of equipment have decreased both efficiency
and safety. Efforts have been concentrated
on overcoming these handicaps during the
third quarter of 1946. The immediate loss of
manpower through liberation of imported
slave labor and prisoners of war has been
further complicated by factors reducing the

--- Page 13 ---
production of the remaining German mine
workers.

Well aware of the urgency of providing
sufficient coal for the civilian economy, the
occupational troops and the surrounding
countries which depend largely on German
coal, the four occupying powers have con-
centrated on getting that coal out of the pits.
Despite reduced capacity resulting from all
causes, production has been steadily increas-
ed. Yet a year after capitulation, hard coal
was being brought out at the rate of slightly
less than half the wartime production, and
the monthly production of brown coal rep-
resented two-thirds of peak production. A
total of 6,037,600 tons of saleable solid fuels
were loaded in the four week allocation
period of May; of this amount, 5,068,216
tons were for Germany and Austria — in-
cluding military loadings — and 969,384
tons for export.

RUHR AND SAAR OUTPUT

All hard coal needed in the US Zone must
be brought in from the Ruhr and Saar. Pit-
head output of hard coal in these two main
German producing areas has fluctuated
around 45 percent or less of 1938 output,
and around two-thirds of present capacity.
Of this output, about one-quarter has been
used in the mining of coal and for mine
power generating stations. A further sub-
stantial percentage has gone to high priority
coal consumers — the railroads, the public
utilities and the occupying forces. The result
has been that the US Zone in the first five
months of 1946 received less than one-third
of the coal tonnage normally consumed in
this area in pre-war days.

ALLOCATION FOR TRANSPORT

Transportation facilities are now receiving
about one-fourth of the total coal allocation,
and tonnage provided exceeds actual 1938
tonnage by 15 percent. This seemingly large
allocation is partly due to the basic position
of transport in any exchange economy, but
more largely to the fact that the present poor
condition of German transportation equip-
ment requires the use of unusually large

10

quantities of fuel. The amounts of coal allo-
cated for other public utilities in 1946 com-
pared favorably with consumption in 1938.

Substantially reduced this year are allo-
cations for industrial consumption. This cat-
egory includes all types of industrial and
commercial consumers except transportation
and public utilities. Allocations are less than
half the 1938 level, and are channeled to
those industries which are deemed essential
to maintenance of a minimum subsistence
level and prevention of unrest in occupied
areas.

Priorities go to steel production for re-
activation of essential industry, particularly
transportation and mining, where equipment
maintenance was largely neglected during
the later war years. Fertilizer plants are
also given top priority, as are food process-
ing and agricultural machinery industries.
No coal has been allocated for space-heat-
ing or general household use by the German
civilian population, even during winter
months, but hospitals, schools and community
kitchens were furnished necessary supplies.

CONTENTS OF REPORT

The Allied Coordinating Committee in its
instructions to the committee of coal experts
listed seven points to be covered in the re-
port. These included: The number of ad-
ditional miners necessary, means of attract-
ing to the pits the greatest number of miners
and of insuring the maximum output, the
sufficiency of present equipment and meas-
ures for obtaining necessary supplementary
supplies, the extent of possible reduction of
consumption of coal in the mines, the ex-
amination of methods used to establish pro-
duction programs and levels, and a state-
ment on production level to be attained.

Under the point on means of attracting
more miners to the pits, the committee is to
study miners’ rations, supplementary con-
sumers goods for the miners, bonuses and
special inducements such as transportation,
tobacco and beer, housing conditions, increase
in wages, technical supervision, discipline
and psychological methods to encourage
output.

--- Page 14 ---
P.O. S D.A.M

Site of Last Year’s-Historic Conférence Retains Little of Past Glory;

Formerly Symbol of German Militarism, Residence of Reich’s Rulers

dnd last bulwark of Prussian mili-
taristic traditions, is today but a shell of
its former self. The bronze monument of
General August von Steuben, replica of the
original in Washington’s Lafayette Park,
no longer stands. The long bridge, with
its figures of great Prussian military lead-
ers, is gone. The Palace of Sans Souci,
though little touched by war, has been shorn
of many of its treasures. The Garrison
Church, whose famous chimes echoed the
exploits of the German army, is gutted.
The crypt below the altar, final resting place
of Frederick the Great and his father, can
still be seen; but it is said that their re-
mains were spirited away before the arrival
of the conqueros.

It was in the Cecilienhof Palace at Pots-
dam, only a few miles southwest of Ber-
lin, that German militarism saw its fate

11

sealed during a dramatic series of con-
ferences held from 17 July to 2 August 1945,
less than three months after Germany’s un-
conditional surrender. There in the former
residence of Crown Prince William of Prus-
sia, the chiefs of state of the United Kingdom,
the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics and
the United States of America discussed the
main issues resulting from the end of the
war in Europe and agreed to carry out the
principles laid down at Yalta six months
before. Chief among these was the deter:
mination to extirpate German militarism
so completely that it could never again be-
come a threat to world peace.

That Potsdam was chosen as the stage
for this historic drama is significant not be-
cause it was a charming city of beautiful
palaces, parks and churches; not because it
was the former residence of Prussian kings

--- Page 15 ---
and German kaisers; nor even because it is
the administrative capital of Brandenburg
province, heart of Prussia. For more than
two hundred years, ever since the time of
the soldier-king, Frederick William I, Pots-
dam was the symbol of a spirit that hovered
over her peaceful palaces, parks and
churches — the spirit that created Prussia
and sustained Prussianism.

A thousand years ago Potsdam was a
sleepy, slavic fishing village named Poztu-
pimi, meaning “mountain slope.” It was
first mentioned in a document back in the
year 993, but didn’t receive a city charter
until the 14th century. Even then it re-
mained unimportant until the time of the
Great Elector, Frederick William, who built
a palace there between 1660 and 1682. Three
years later, as a result of religious differen-
ces with King Louis XIV of France, he
issued the Edict of Potsdam inviting . the
exiled Huguenots to settle in Brandenburg
province.

PERIOD OF DEVELOPMENT

But the real importance-of Potsdam began
with Frederick William I, grandson of the
Great Elector and second king of Prussia,
who enlarged and beautified the city and
developed its economic life. Himself a
soldier, with a mania for regiments of giants,
he was a stickler for order and discipline
and his stiff military tastes are still re-
flected in the monotonous uniformity of the
streets. Being an unpretentious person with
simple tastes, pomp and circumstance soon
disappeared from his court. Upon his death
he bequeathed to his son, Frederick the
Great, a well organized state with loyal
civil servants and an army of 80,000 men.

- The steel that was forged in Potsdam by
Frederick William I was not only firmly
held by his son; it was tempered and
sharpened to a keen edge. Once he ascended
the throne, Prussia marched the road to
militarism. Still, young Frederick had time
for Potsdam between conquests.

In 1745, after he led the Silesian cam-
paigns, resulting in the addition of Silesia

12

and East Friesland to Prussia, he laid the
plans for the most famous of its palaces,
Sans Souci. Here, in his favorite residence,
he thought he could retire from the every-
day cares of the world. But his turbulent
spirit and affairs of state made such an
escape from reality no easy matter. After
the Seven Years’ War he again had the
urge to build. From 1763 to 1769 he erected,
at enormous expense, the New Palace,
largest and most sumptous of Potsdam’s
edifices. It is said that Frederick the Great
wanted to show the other powers that even
after a long and costly war the coffers of
the Prussian treasury were still not empty

FOUNDER OF FIRST REICH

As builder of palaces and lover of the
fine arts, as philosopher and diplomat, as
war lord and battle leader, he ruled Prus-
sia with an iron hand for almost half a
century and laid the foundation for a united
empire. He was, in a sense, the founder
of the First Reich.

During his reign he engrained his love
of war and militarism indelibly upon the
character.of his people. And when he died,
in 1786 — a sick and lonely old man — a
city of 28,000 had grown out of the once
provincial village of Potsdam. Prussia had-
become a power to reckon with in European
politics.

VISIT OF NAPOLEON

But Prussia had her vicissitudes even
though the trend, until the First World
War, was always toward greater power. In
1806, when she was at the ebb tide of her
glory, Napoleon stood awe-inspired before
the crypt of Frederick the Great in Pots-
dam’s Garrison Church, built by the latter’s
father five years before his death. “Were
he living today,” Napoleon is said to have
remarked, pointing to the coffin of the
great king. “I would not be here.”

At that time, however, Prussia stood on
the threshold of a militaristic resurgence.
Out of the oppression and poverty in the
land, the old spirit of Frederick the Great,
embodied in German militarists like Blue-
cher, Scharnhorst and Gneisenau, came to

(Continued on page 23)

--- Page 16 ---
DEMOCRATIZING OF INFORMATION
SERVICES AIM OF PROPOSED LAWS

T power over all German information
services will ultimately rest with each
individual German, but the progress toward
attaining this democratic aim will be gradual
in order to assure that the transition is in full
comformity with the intentions of MG policy.

The importance of the current step in the
drafting of German information control laws
by the Laenderrat and the retention by MG
of the right of review of the German adminis-
tration were explained in a recent issue of
Die Neue Zeitung, official MG zonewide
German-language newspaper.

In describing the progress of turning over
to German authorities certain administrative
functions in the fields of press, radio,
publishing, theater and music control now
exercised by MG, Neue Zeitung said the pro-
posed licensing and press laws will be
operative for about two years — until they
can be reviewed by elected representatives
of the German people.

PURPOSE OF STATEMENT

The Director of the Information Control
Division, OMGUS, stated that Die Neue
Zeitung printed its summary in order to
advise every German concerned of the
proposed legislation and to afford an oppor-
tunity for popular comment before final
enactment.

“It is the hope of Military Government
that the time will come when restrictions
imposed on the information services by Ger-
man Government, as well as by Military
Government, will be completely abolished,”
the article stated. “The goal of Information
Control is to create a situation where the
individual will decide what he wants to
read, see or hear without being told by any
authority and where any man may engage
in publishing or theatrical work, or even
start a radio station as long as he adheres

13

to the general laws of the land.

“Then the power over all information
services will rest where it ought to be in
a truly democratic state — with each in-
dividual.”

Commenting on the work being done by
Laenderrat committees in drafting in-
formation control laws for German ad-
mistration, the article emphazised that “this
is a long step in the direction of a free
press and radio in Germany, but it does .
not yet mean complete freedom.”

MG’S FUNCTION

Military Government will retain the right
to review the work of the German licensing
and registration bodies and to maintain a
check on the type of material being broad-
cast, and will continue to formulate the
general policies which must be followed,
although actual administration of informa-
tion control be performed by the German
bodies with the help of the courts.

“It is expected, however, that Military
Government will be called upon to exercise
its powers in this field with less and less
frequency and that these laws will pave the

way for completely free German informa-
tion services.”

LAENDERRAT COMMITTEE

In explaining the work of the Laender-
rat Information Control Committee and its
three subcommittees for press, publications
and radio-theater-music, the article stated
that each of these groups includes technical
experts, lawyers and businessman, as well
as representatives of state governments.

The press subcommittee includes rep-
resentatives of the press associations of the
three Laender and independent journalists.
Licensing and registration procedures, now

(Continued on page 23)

--- Page 17 ---
CONSTABULARY RAID

(Upper lett) Germans are detained for having Gl
equipment in their homes; (upper right) a civilian is
held tor not complying with orders to get off the street
during the raid; (above) Gl clothing is checked by

consfabulary troops in a German home; (lower left)

a German is booked for having five sticks of dyna-

mife in his home; (lower right) a CIC agent questions

two men for not having proper indentity papers.

Signal Corps Photos

--- Page 18 ---
Early one morning last month US con-
stabulary units placed guards around
the entire town of Rhinau, Germany. After
sound trucks had cruised. the streets and told
the people to return to their homes, the troops
began, a house-to-house search for black
market items, US Army equipment, firearms
and other prohibited material. ‘The owner of
each house was present while his home was
being searched and, when the search was
completed, he signed a certificate stating that
there had been no looting during the proceed-
ings. By noon all that remained was the
questioning of people who had been brought
to the Command Post for investigation by
CIC agents.

--- Page 19 ---
Local German Authorities
To Take US Zone Census

The four-zone German census, ordered
for late October by the Allied Control
Council, will be taken in the US Zone by
the local German authorities under the con-
trol of MG. Control Council Law No. 33
directs the census to be taken on the basis
of the situation existing at 2400 hours on
Tuesday, 29 October, 1946.

All policies and action affecting the census
in the US Zone will be the responsibility
of the Civil Administrative Division, OMG-
US, while the Director of each Land OMG
will name a census officer from his staff to
coordinate the census activities within the
Land and between the Laender. The census
in the Bremen Enclave will be conducted
by British authorities and in Berlin District
under direction of the Kommandatura.

The ministers-president of the three Laen-
der will arrange for coordination and
establishment of a uniform plan through
the Laenderrat, according to an OMGUS
directive. The entire census operation in
the US Zone, including procurement of
supplies, personnel and equipment, and
tabulation of facts gathered in the census,
will be under the supervision of the Laen-
derrat operating through its committee on
statistics and through the appropriate agen-
cies of the Laender. The cost of the census
will be borne by the German agencies.

Fourteen questions are specified by Con-
trol Council Law No. 33 to be asked of each
German. These questions include: Name,
sex, date of birth, marital and family status
nationality, native language, religion, educa-
tion, trade or profession, residence now and
on 1 September 1939, and military service.

Three categories of persons in Germany
excluded from the census are: (1) members
of the Occupational Forces, (2) non-German
civilians affiliated to the Occupational For-
ces, and (3) certain non-German civilians

16

admitted to any zone by th
Forces. The Occupational, and not German,
authorities will take the census of prisoners
of war, displaced persons under any Allied
authority and civilian internees.

The OMGUS directive requires the col-
lection of the census of household lists be
completed by 3 November 1946. A head
count of the population by sex and political
subdivision will be completed by 13 No-
vember 1946. The date for the completion
of preliminary data will be 1 May 1947;
for providing a breakdown of large groups
of occupations provisionally 1 September
1947; and for all information on the census
1 February 1948.

Artists’ Meeting

The Guild Society of German Artists held
its first meeting since 1932 in Weimar,
Thuringia, in the Russian Zone, last week
with approximately 200 delegates, including
about 60 from the 15 locals in the US Zone,
attending, Actors’ singers, members of
theater orchestras, conductors, ballet dancers,
stage directors, designers, and chiefs of the
stage and technical departments are included
in the membership of the organization.

American MG encouraged attendance at
the meeting, but because union operations
are recognized in the US Zone only up to
Land level, delegates went as individuals,
but could not vote in any official capacity
or accept office.

The convention marks the first Germany-
wide effort to reestablish the German theater
in its original democratic traditions. In pre-
Hitler days there were locals in all prin-
cipal cities in Germany, but the organization
was banned during the Nazi regime because
of its high democratic standards which
placed freedom of action in the individual
artists ahead of the central state authority.
Since the occupation of Germany, locals have
been established in all four zones of Ger-
many.

--- Page 20 ---
OMGEBD Aids German Press

A policy of aiding the German press in
the securing of correct information from MG
sources in the US Sector of Berlin was an-
nounced by Col. Frank L. Howley, Director
of OMG Berlin District.

The plan provides that news releases and
other information compiled by the OMGBD
Public Relations Office will be released to
the German press through the district In-
formation Control Branch. In addition, Ger-
man newspapermen will be permitted to
contact branch chiefs and other OMGBD
news sources for Information through the
Public Relations Office.

“I feel that the German press must be
given every assistance if it is to obtain the
information it needs to help combat tuber-
culosis, venereal diseases, malaria and other
diseases, Colonel Howley said, he added
that “correct information is the only ef-
fective tool against rumors.”

Land Constitutions

The constitution being drafted now in
each of the three Laender of the US Zone
is to include ten provisions to which par-
ticular attention is to be given by MG in
reviewing the draft and approving or re-
commending changes. These provisions are
listed by the Civil Administration Division,
OMGUS, as follows:

1. Relation of the Laender to the Laender-
rat or to future German central government;
2. position of the Land president; 3. re-
sponsibility of the legislature; 4. system of
elections; 5. second chambers or senates; 6.
civil servants and other governmental em-
ployees; 7. guarantees for local self-govern-
ment; 8. social philosophy and legislation;
9. protection of fundamental rights; 10. re-
lationship of each Land to Military Govern-
ment.

Each Land constitutional assembly is being
provided with recent American and English
reference works on constitutional subjects:
under an arrangement by OMGUS.

17

Cattle Slaughter

The slaughter of 256,000 additional cattle
and the release of 100,000 head for inter-
zonal trade during the remainder of the year
have been authorized by the Food and Agri-
culture Branch, Economics Division,OMGUS.

Of the 13,000 head of cattle contracted to
be sold to the Soviet Zone, 6,500 have al-
ready been delivered.

Some of the meat made available by the
increased slaughtering will be preserved for
consumption next winter in the US Zone.

Decartelization Findings

Five German banks — Deutsche Bank,
Dresdner Bank, Commerz-Bank, Berliner
Handelsbank and Reichskreditgesellschaft —
dominated the Allegemeine Elektrizitaets-
gesellschaft (AEG), second largest electro-
technical firm in Germany, according to in-
vestigation by the Decartelization Branch,
Economics Division, OMGUS.

AEG participated before the start of oc-
cupation in more than 100 cartels and owned
Telefunken, 90 percent of whose 1944 pro-
duction of radios was for the Wehrmacht.

The five banks listed as dominating the
AEG were the same that voted as much as
93 percent of I. G. Farben stock and whose
directors were also directors of 128 other
companies producing war materials.

Tax Collections

Collections in Greater Hesse of former
Reich taxes amounted to RM 220,000,000 in
the first quarter of the fiscal year 1946
(April-June 1946), as compared with RM
188,000,000 in the last quarter of the fiscal
year 1945 (January-March 1946).

In Wuerttemberg-Baden, similar tax in-
come during April and May averaged RM
83,000,000 per month as compared with
RM 67,000,000 per month in the last quarter
of the 1945 fiscal year. ,

In Bavaria, however, comparison of April
collections with those in March showed a
drop from RM 131:000,000 in March to
RM 123,000,000 in April.

--- Page 21 ---
ZONE NEWS BRIEFS

A daily broadcast of the names of missing
children has been inaugurated by Radio
Munich, with rebroadcasts by Radios Frank-
furt and Stuttgart. The program was ar-
ranged in cooperation with the Bavarian Red
Cross and UNRRA.

An additional 375,000 bottles of wines
has been released for August interzonal trade
and German consumption. This wine is not
suitable for export and is in excess of re-
quirements of US occupation personnel.

About half of the 5,000,000-dollar collec-
tion of gold coins taken by the Nazis from
12 Austrian and Czechoslovak monasteries
has been returned. Approximately one-half
of the Austrian portion is in the custody of
USFA.

Integration of Berlin’s economy with the
rest of Germany is being attempted by means
of a quarterly interzonal trade program.
Totals of 47 tons of textiles and 29,500 pairs
of footwear have been reserved in the US
Zone for the US Sector of Berlin.

TELETYPE NETWORK PLANNED

A teletype network for the exclusive work
of city, rural and border civil police in the
US Zone has been engineered and plans have
been coordinated for its rapid implementa-
tion. A substantial portion of this network
is already operative in some parts of the
Zone.

Twenty thousand copies of Information
and Education textbooks, declared surplus
by the I & E depot, have been taken to
Wiesbaden for distribution to teacher train-
ing colleges, secondary schools and voca-
tional schools. They will serve as reference
books on history, English literature and
science. These books were turned over to
the German authorities as a loan. Thirty
tons of books, written in English, have been
sent from OMGUS to Munich for use in
Bavarian high schools and universities.

Athletic facilities which the US Army has
recently agreed to release or share with Ger-

18

man youth include the Frankfurt Sports Club
and Victory Field, as well as miscellaneous
facilities in Wiesbaden, Darmstadt, Kassel
and Marburg.

TRIBUNALS ESTABLISHED

To implement the Law for Liberation from
National Socialism and Militarism, 103 de-
nazification tribunals, including 10 appellate
bodies, have been established in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden. Up to 10 July, 243 citizens of
the Land have been brought before the tri-
bunals, with four adjudged to be “offend-
ers,” seven as “lesser offenders” and 88 as
“followers.”

A trade union for postal and telegraph
employees in Greater Hesse has been given
provisional recognition by the OMG for
Greater Hesse. This enables the group to
hold meetings, recruit members, elect offi-
cials and collect nominal sums of money for
carrying on temporary administration.

A campaign in Wuerttemberg-Baden urg-
ing voluntary treatment for venereal dis-
eases resulted in a slight decrease in the rates
during the past month. Civilian centers for
treatment of the diseases have been set up in
every Kreis of the Land, and German VD ex-
perts in each center have been given ade-
quate supplies of penicillin.

AGENCY AIDS PERSECUTEES

A private welfare agency in Stuttgart has
been licensed by the German Public Welfare
Office of Land Wuerttemberg-Baden to give
personalized care to persons who had been
persecuted by the Nazis. A partial survey
has shown that 5,880 persons have been de-
clared eligible for benefits given persecutees,
but it is expected approximately 9,000 will
be approved by the time the survey is com-
pleted.

Sufficient leather to manufacture 500,000
uppers for shoes has been withheld from ex-
port from the US Zone and assigned to shoe
manufacture.

--- Page 22 ---
GERMAN REACTIONS

Licensed Press Discusses
Paris Conference Issues

The Paris Conference of Foreign Ministers
received considerable emphasis in the licensed
German press of the US Zone, according to
an ICD analysis, which, pointed out that this
subject evoked some of the most extensive
editorial reactions in recent weeks.

The Schwaebische Landeszeitung said:
“The German speculators, the Nazi under-
ground, the idle whisperers and ear-benders,
who longed for a fiasco in Paris, are hor-
tibly disappointed.” The Heilbronner
Stimme asserted, “How often were the nego-
tiations of the Foreign Secretaries in Paris
on the verge of breaking down.... But
step by step one point of contention after
the other was removed.”

“The word ‘compromise’ is distasteful to
many Germans — wrongly so,” said an
editorial in the Stuttgarter Zeitung. “In
reality, compromises in the fields of foreign
and home politics are certainly better than
wars or civil wars. Trieste, for instance, has
not led to the outbreak of a war. . . Taking
into account the mixed population of Trieste
and its surroundings and the international
importance of its harbor, it seems to be a
very good compromise.”

In discussing the US proposal for the oc-
cupying authorities of any of the other zones
of Germany to confer with the American
authorities of the US Zone on treatment of
their areas jointly as an economic unit, the
Wiesbadener Kurier said:

“This program means considerably more
than a silver stripe on a clouded horizon. If
the zonal boundaries do not disappear soon,
Germany faces an economic collapse. It is
no good trying to find a palliative for this
truth. All the progress we made in the
political sphere, the contributions of the
Laender and the free elections are useless as
long as we lack the very air we need to

19

breathe in the econom
posal is based on politie C
monsense: assuming a decent treatment of
defeated Germany it is based on a compelling
logic and serves the purposes of the Allies.
The reconstruction of Europe is unthinkable
without German economics and German in-
dustry. Any interpretation of the Potsdam
decisions will have to take this fact into
account.”

Constitutional Assemblies

Concerning the constitutional assembly
being held now in each Land, Der Morgen,
newly-licensed Mannheim newspaper, said:
“As long as the majority abandons itself to
the belief that they ‘can’t do anything, any-
way’ and that they will be ‘governed,’ what-
ever happens, even the best constitution runs
the risk of becoming a voice crying in the
wilderness. It should, therefore, be the task
of the press and of all other organs of in-
formation to shift the accent from the expert
discussion and comparison of constitutional
rights to the practical effects of the various
points, so that they will appeal to the aver-
age person.”

Return of Soviet-held PWs

Both through news and special broadcasts
Radio Berlin publicized the news that two
first groups of 120,000 PWs from Soviet
Russia had arrived in Germany.

The Radio used the occasion to point out
that the rumors which had been spread about
Soviet PWs is untrue.

“. . The first of the 120,000 prisoners of
war have testified that all rumors were
utterly unfounded and that Soviet Russia
has not been guided by revenge, paying back
in the same coin,” declared the radio. “All
those who did not want to believe it will now
have the opportunity to hear the truth
directly.”

--- Page 23 ---
PRESS and RADIO COMMENTS

Stateside Press Supports
Economic Unity Decision

The decision of the United States govern-
ment, as announced by Secretary of State
Byrnes at Paris, to proceed with the economic
unification of Germany with any or all of
the occupying powers, was generally sup-
ported by US newspaper comment as a
practical move.

The point was made that US policy fol-
lows the Potsdam Agreement and would not
only contribute to Germany’s rehabilitation
but also to the stabilizing of peace in Europe.

The New York Times said: “The Potsdam
Agreement, by which the victors abolished
German sovereignty and transferred it to
themselves, is at present the only German
constitution there is. It is also the fun-
damental legal basis for Allied cooperation in
both Germany and Europe, where all world
problems meet...

“Importance of the American move lies in
the fact that it now calls for a showdown on
this situation. What it does in effect is to
serve notice that the Potsdam Agreement
will either be enforced as a whole or not be
enforced at all. And the consequences of
the Allied answer on that point are likely to
be even more important, for better or for
worse, than the peripheral peace treaties
with Germany’s satellites to be considered
by the Peace Conference.”

“Secretary Byrnes’ announcement is a re-
alistic first step away from appeasement
diplomacy and toward practical peace-mak-
ing in Europe,” the Houston Post declared.

“At best, General McNarney can expect
no more than a loose sort of economic unity
. . . There would still be little immediate
hope of achieving the kind of administration
the United States seeks. For conditions al-
ready existing would make economic unity
difficult and complete unity impossible.”

The St. Louis Post-Dispatch: “France’s

and Rhineland, is at least understa
She has suffered three wars partly because
of an overwhelming industrial power of those
areas. But what the French are doing is; to
promote an issue which must wait for the
final peace agreement. While it waits, par-
tition of Germany causes Europe to suffer
from lack of productive help in its re-
construction.

“Cannot the French agree to help manage
German economy at a certain temporary
level, dangerous to no one but helpful even
to themselves? That would permit eventual
political shape of Germany to be determined
where it should be at the Peace Conference.”

“Our immediate objective must be a modus
vivendi and one which makes fewer demands
on our patience and our resources than the
present state of things. No American likes
to think his nation is a party to an agree-
ment which condemns millions of people to
unproductive lives, to lives just a dreary
inch above starvation level.”

“Forgotten Women”

The women who have taken off their war-
time uniforms to return to civilian life do not
want to be thought of as the “forgotten
women,” said the Manchester Union. Its
editorial follows:

“Column after column has been written
about the returned male veteran. What about
the gals who played such an important part
in the war? Is it possible that their problems
of transition to peacetime living are so
simple that there is no reason for paying
attention to them? Apparently this is not
the case.

“As a reminder of the part women played
in the war, it is interesting to point to the
following facts and figures: Of the 350,000
women who served in the armed services
during the war, only about 65,000 are still in

--- Page 24 ---
uniform, and the number is decreasing so
rapidly that the Coast Guard (Spars), for
instance, has none left at this time.

“The women who made this break from
their usual existence now want to carve their
own futures; they want satisfying jobs with
the opportunity to use their new-found ex-
perience and knowledge; and according to a
recent survey, they want to be considered on
a par with men when it comes to privileges,
opportunities and if necessary, competition,
under the GI Bill of Rights. Of course, they
are given equal treatment, but according to
the questionnaire answered by the ex-service
women recently, ihey don’t want to be
thought of as the ‘forgotton women.’ We'll
be hearing from them, it seems.”

China Civil War

Christopher Rand of the New York Herald
Tribune writes that ihe China civil war in
the Yangschov area is exaggerated; he says
during two days in the vicinity he has “been
unable to find any traces or substantial re-
ports of any local military action larger than
light patrol clashes.”

Red Army Discipline

According to an AP dispatch in the
Washington Post stricter discipline in the
Red Army and Nuvy, including rigid ob-
servance of “the rules of military politeness
and saluting,” is required by a new degree
signed recently by (Xeneralissimo Stalin.

“The Red Army decree, requiring military
personnel strictly to fulfill orders of their
superiors and if necessary, suffer hardships
or give their lives in the performance of
their duties, will advance military might in
the Soviet state’ by redefining the relation-
ships of officers and men and their obliga-
tions to the state,” the dispatch quoted the
army paper, Red Star, as saying.

“The regulations require army personnel
strictly to ‘keep military and state secrets,
to be honest, truthful and conscientious, to
study military requirements, protect the
military state, properly respect superiors and
chiefs and strictly observe the rules of mili-
tary politeness and saluting.’

21

“Orders of superiors must be obeyed
promptly, but subordinates must not be hu-
miliated or caused to lose personal dignity,
the decree states. Courts of honor are created
to keep ‘the dignity and honor’ of the officer
rank, and ‘to investigate faults unworthy of
the officer rank which lower military honor
or which are incompatible with the con-
ception of morality.’ ”

Views German Reconstruction

In an article appearing in the New Rep-
ublic, Alan Barth examines the problems
facing US Military Government in Germany
and the advancement made toward the even-
tual reconstruction of Germany on a peaceful
and democratic basis.

“In certain respects,” Barth writes, “ef-
fective steps towards realizing the assurance
of the Potsdam Declaration that the ‘German
people be given the opportunity to prepare
for the eventual reconstruction of their life
on a democratic and peaceful basis,’ have
been taken in the American Zone of Oc-
cupation ...

“Denazification is now being pressed with
real vigor. American Military Government
has . . . encouraged German self government
and the establishment of democratic pro-
cesses. The three Laender into which the
American Zone has been divided, and the
Laenderrat which serves them as a coordinat-
ing body, have laid the groundwork for a
future German federal system, with emphasis
on local autonomy. While all the actions of
the Laenderrat are subject to MG approval,
the practice has been to recommend and ad-
vise, not dictate to the German officials. In
this, and in the encouragement of free po-
litical parties, democracy has been much
more effectively advanced in the American
Zone than in any other part of Germany.

“Unhappily, there has been no comparable
advance in economic democracy ... The
zonal partition of Germany was made with-
out taking economic considerations into ac-
count. Interzonal exchange is almost at a
standstill. In consequence, very little pro-
duction is possible. Opel cars, for example,

--- Page 25 ---
are assembled in the American Zone. But
they require magnetos which are made in the
French Zone and carburetors which are made
in the British Zone. For the manufacture of
either of these, steel is required from the
British zone. To produce steel, coal must be
mined, and miners must be fed. But the
only part of Germany which has a food sur-
plus is occupied by the Russians, who do
not let their zone supply others.

“Potsdam and the Control Council plan, if
actually carried to fulfilment, would permit
Germany, at best, to achieve a standard of
living equal to that which was obtained
there in 1932. The plan provides for mainte-
nance in Germany of average living standards
not exceeding the average standard of living
of European countries, excluding the United
Kingdom and the USSR. Before the war,
Germany lived about 30 percent better than
her neighbors. When the other countries
reach their 1938 standards, Germany is to
be restricted to a national income 30 percent
lower than she enjoyed in that year. We
should not forget that mass unemployment,
economic atrophy and the general hopeless-
ness of the German people in 1932 were
among the factors which brought Hitler to
power.

“But even a 1932 living standard is a vain
hope if the German economy remains seg-
mented. Under present conditions, the Ger+
mans have nothing to look forward to but
progressive malnutrition and dependence
upon the magnanimity of their conquerors
to escape actual starvation. It will not suf-
fice to give the Germans the forms of de-
mocracy and deny them the substance. De-
mocracy has its roots in opportunity; its
essence is the chance it affords for realization.”

Revival of Reich Imperialism

A special Tass correspondent, writing
from Paris, said recently “neither the di-
vision of Germany nor the preservation of
its state of unity offers in itself a guarantee
from the danger of rejuvenation of the ag-
gressive forces of German imperialism.”

“The real solution to the German pro-

22

blem,” he added, “lies in the actual de-
struction of fascism the demilitari-
zation of Germany and the destruction of
its armed forces and the real demo-
cratization of the state in public and eco-
nomic life.”

Defeat for lsolationism

A growing interest’ in the principle of
world cooperation was seen by a large part
of the US press as responsible for the defeat
of Senator Burton K. Wheeler in the Mont-
ana Democratic Party senatorial primary
elections. Editorial comment linked Wheel-
er’s unsuccessful bid for renomination with
the defeat of Senator Shipstead in the Min-
nesota Republican Party primary the previ-
ous week as evidence that there is an in-
creasing. bi-partisan sentiment towards fol-
lowing a policy of internationalism.

The St. Paul Pioneer Press said: “The
fact that the defeat of Wheeler following so
closely on Senator Shipstead’s loss in Min-
nesota is indicative of the growth of a truly
American foreign policy having the backing
of both major political parties.”

“If there were any truth to the claim that
‘nationalism’ is resurgent and growing in
the West, Wheeler, of all persons should
have won,” according to the Chicago Times.

“€Wheeler’s liberalism, like Shipstead’s,
did not carry) over into the international
field,” observes The New York Times. “To
him every step that President Roosevelt took
to defend the country was an incitement to
war... Unlike Shipstead, he voted for the
charter of the United Nations, but he damned
it as a ‘declaration of pious intentions’ and
indicated that he would do what he could to
limit its effectiveness . . . We have to con-
clude that the voters were turning thumbs
down on isolationism.”

The Pittsburgh Post Gazette also observed
that “like the recent Minnesota primary and
the approval of the British loan, (Wheeler’s
defeat) reflects the growing realization that
the interests of America are inextricably
linked with those of the world.”

--- Page 26 ---
INFORMATION SERVICES (Continued from page 13)

in use by MG, will be continued under the
German laws for information control.

According to tentative plans, each li-
censing body would consist of one represen-
tative of the state government, several rep-
resentatives of trade organizations involved,
and one or more independent representatives
of the cultural and political life of the land.
The licensing bodies will be required to con-
sider each individual case on its own merits.

“Only persons who are eligible under
the terms of the Law for Liberation from
National Socialism and Militarism will be
considered for licenses,” it was stated. “High
standards of political integrity and profes-
sional competence will be required.”

Registration of bookstores and dis-
tributors, as now required by MG, will
also be continued under the supervision of
these licensing bodies.

“The draft of the new German press
law, being discussed, is based on the former
press law of 1874, but includes additional
safeguards to protect the press from having
its freedom limited by orders of public of-

ficials, on the one hand, and protect state
institutions and the public from maliciously
untruthful reports on the other,” the ac-
count said. “It is planned that the licensing
laws and the press law be of a transitional
nature, valid for only about two years. At
the end of this time it is hoped that they
will be examined by the elected represent-
atives of the people who will determine
in each case whether they should be ex-
tended, altered or allowed to expire.

“A parallel step is being taken in the
case of radio. According to present plans,
publicly-owned corporations will be set up
in each Land which will assume direction
of the stations now operated by Military
Government. In order to insure that radio
does not become merely a political instru-
ment of the government in power, these
corporations will be governed by boards
on which a majority of members will be
independent representatives of the political
and cultural life of each land, and will be
pledged to an impartial point of view in
the public interest.”

—_—_—_—_—_—_—_

POTSDAM (Continued from page 12)

the fore and enabled the people to throw
off the shackles of tyranny — if only to
allow tyranny in another form to replace it.

The rise of Prussianism in the 19th
century culminated in the welding together
of the German states by Bismarck, the Iron
Chancellor and founder of the “Second
Reich.” As a climax to the Franco-Prussian
War, King William I of Prussia was crowned
Emperor of the German Reich at Versailles.

German militarism and imperialism were
in the ascendent until 1918. In November
1910, Potsdam was the scene of a rap-
prochement between William II of Ger-
many and Nicholas II of Russia. This
agreement was supposed to conjure away
the threatening clouds of war; neither na-
tion was to enter into any political alliance
directed against the other. Three and one-
half years later, Potsdam became the site
of the famous Privy Council, attended by the

military, political and economic leaders of
the German and Austro-Hungarian Empires
under the chairmanship of Kaiser Wil-
liam II. Here, according to reports that
spread like wildfire through the allied na-
tions, the ultimatum against Serbia and the
plans for the World War were supposed
to have been drafted.

The: downfall of the German Empire and
the coming of peace ushered in only a
short-lived period of democracy under
the Weimar Republic. On 21 March 1933
— “der Tag von Potsdam” — the chimes
of the Garrison Church tolled the death
knell of freedom in Germany. Before the
crypt containing the coffins of Frederick
the Great and his father the founders of
the modern Prussian state, Reichspresident
von Hindenburg handed over the reins of
government to his successor, Adolf Hitler,
founder of the “Third Reich.”

--- Page 27 ---
STATION LIST

MILITARY GOVERNMENT ELEMENTS

UNIT OR OFFICE OF DIRECTOR OR
MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Joseph T McNarney
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, US

Office of Mil Gov for Lt Gen Lucius D Clay,
Germany, US Berlin ey Governor
Maj Gen C L Adcock,

Asst Deputy Mil Governor
LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

Office of Mil Gov for
Wiirttemberg-Baden Stuttgart Col W W Dawson

1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)

(APO 154)
Hq Ist Mil Gov Bn (Sep) Stuttgart Col W W Dawson
Hq & Sv Co Stuttgart Ist Lt J P Clifford
Stuttgart Area
*SK Stuttgart Stuttgart Lt Col C L Jackson
*LK Boéblingen Béblingen Ist Lt O P Johnson
*LK Esslingen Esslingen Capt N Semaschko
*LK Ludwigsburg Ludwigsburg Maj S A Warren
*LK Waiblingen Waiblingen Capt J B Cress
*LK Backnang Backnang Ist Lt R R Mayer
*LK Leonberg Leonberg Capt W J Vallaza
*LK Niirtingen Nirtingen Capt P F Sullivan
*LK Vaihingen Vaihingen Ist Lt U S Aiello
Mannheim Area
*SK Mannheim Mannheim Maj M L Hoover
*SK/LK Heidelberg Heidelberg Lt Col W T Burt
*LK Buchen Buchen Ist Lt G H Wright
*LK Mosbach Mosbach Capt I D Claxton
*LK Tauberbischofsheim Tauberbischofsheim Capt N W Barber
*LK Sinsheim Sinsheim Ist Lt D E Bedard
Karlsruhe Area
*SK/LK Karlsruhe Karlsruhe Maj W T Neel
*SK/LK Pforzheim Pforzheim Maj RH Stimson
*LK Bruchsal Bruchsal Ist Lt L L Goldman
Heilbronn Area
*LK Heilbronn Heilbronn Maj M W Terry
*LK Crailsheim Crailsheim Ist Lt R E Alley
*LK Schw. Hall Schw. Hall Capt C S Keena
*LK Kuenzelsau Kuenzelsau Capt C E McGaffey
*LK Mergentheim Mergentheim Capt R Forrest
*LK Oehringen Oehringen 1st Lt M Korsun

* Liaison and Security

24

--- Page 28 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER
Ulm Area
*LK Ulm Ulm Capt R N Tharp
*LK Aalen Aalen Capt R_H Nation
*LK Schw. Gmuend Schw. Gmuend 1st Lt J E Switzer
*LK Goeppingen Goeppingen Capt R Kennedy
*LK Heidenheim Heidenheim Capt B V Bloom

Office of Mil Gov
for Greater Hesse

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Hq Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Sv Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
US Ln Det (Ruhr)

US Ln Det (Saar)

*SK Frankfurt
*SK Wiesbaden
*LK Wetzlar
*LK Dill

*LK Gelnhausen
*LK Biedenkopf
*SK/LK Hanau
*LK Oberlahn
*LK Limburg
*LK Maintaunus
*LK Rheingau
*LK Obertaunus
*LK Usingen
*LK Untertaunus
*LK Schluechtern

*SK/LK Kassel
*LK Melsungen
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*LK Ziegenhain
*SK/LK Marburg
*SK/LK Fulda
*LK Hiinfeld

*LK Waldeck
*LK Frankenberg
*LK Eschwege
*LK Witzenhausen
*LK Hersfeld
*LK Rotenburg
*LK Hofgeismar
*LK Wolfhagen

*SK/LK Darmstadt
*LK Gross-Gerau
*SK/LK Offenbach
*LK Bergstrasse
*LK Erbach

*LK Biidingen

* Liaison and Security

LAND GREATER HESSE
Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

Wiesbaden
Wiesbaden
Oberursel

Regierungsbezirk Wiesbaden

Frankfurt
Wiesbaden
Wetzlar
Dillenburg
Gelnhausen
Biedenkopf
Hanau
Weilburg
Limburg
Hofheim
Riidesheim
Bad Homburg
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
Schluechtern

Regierungsbezirk Kassel

Kassel
Melsungen
Fritzlar
Ziegenhain
Marburg
Fulda
Hiinfeld
Korbach
Frankenberg
Eschwege
Witzenhausen
Hersfeld
Rotenburg
Hofgeismar
Wolfhagen

Regierungsbezirk Hessen

Darmstadt
Gross-Gerau
Offenbach
Heppenheim
Erbach
Bidingen

25

Col J R Newman

Lt Col S S Graham
Capt H E York
Capt B A Sturdevan
Capt R Gutzwiller

Maj G C Sola
Maj M E Chotas
Capt M S Clark
Capt E G Stolper
Capt J G Bennas
Capt T E Faircloth
Maj E J Emerick
Capt A G Volz
Capt P H Olsen
Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hintz
Capt L F Jones
Capt R F Gibney
Capt T W Harris
Capt E M Jacobson

Lt Col W R Swarm
Maj W C Gipple
Capt G D Fexy
Capt R B Elwell
Lt Col C Reed

‘Lt Col H R Cress

Capt E T Tedick
Capt D W Shea
Maj LS Williams
Maj G P Moore
Capt A Quam
Maj M Baymor
Capt G W Davis
Capt L R Allen
Capt H A Karas

Maj W R Sheehan
Capt G E Schmoeker
Lt Col J C Rose
Maj R A Gish

Capt R O Didlo

Maj D M Easterday

--- Page 29 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

LOCATION

Regierungsbezirk Hessen (Cont'd)

*LK Dieburg Dieburg Capt J S Chapin
*LK Friedberg Friedberg Capt C S Parshall
*SK/LK Giessen Giessen Maj C F Russe
*LK Lauterbach Lauterbach Capt J T Hughes
*LK Alsfeld Alsfeld Capt H B Miller

Office of Mil Gov
for Bavaria

LAND BAVARIA

Munich

3rd Mil Gov Regt

Brig Gen W J Mueller

(APO 170)

Hq 3rd Mil Govt Regt Munich Col C_C Morgen
Hq Company Munich Capt J W Preston
Sv Company Munich Capt L R Clark

Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken
Co A Wurzburg Maj I P Chestnut
*SK/LK Wurzburg Wurzburg Maj M B Voorhees
*SK/LK Aschaffenburg Aschaffenburg Capt J R Hurst
*SK/LK Schweinfurt Schweinfurt Maj G M Marsh
*LK Kissingen Bad Kissingen Capt M A Potter
*LK Kitzingen Kitzingen Capt M Colbert
*LK Alzenau Alzenau Capt A T Neumann
*LK Bruckenau Bruckenau Capt Grodzinski
*LK Ebern Ebern 1st Lt G E Mair
*LK Gemunden Gemunden Capt J J Gotter
*LK Gerolzhofen Gerolzhofen Ist Lt G F Fechan
*LK Hammelburg Hammelburg Capt K L Ellis
*LK Hassfurt Hassfurt Capt R E Hellmig
*LK Hofheim Hofheim Capt F L Beelby
*LK Karlstadt Karlstadt Capt W E Brayden
*LK Konigshofen Konigshofen Capt C Boden
*LK Lohr Lohr Capt E E Kelly
*LK Markt Heidelfeld Markt Heidelfeld Capt Griffin
*LK Mellrichstadt Mellrichstadt 1st Lt L K Owens
*LK Miltenberg Miltenberg Capt O A Jenson
*LK Neustadt a. d. Salle Neustadt a. d. Salle Capt E F Warnke
*LK Obernburg Obernburg Capt J Bumic
*LK Ochsenfurt Ochsenfurt Capt L A Lowell

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

CoB Ansbach Col E M Haight
SK/LK Nurnberg Nurnberg Lt Col C Klise
*SK/LK Bamber, Bamber; Lt Col J R Case
*SK/LK Bayreu Bayreut Capt D F Stroup, Actg
*SK/LK Erlangen Erlangen Lt Col F M Guild
*SK/LK Coburg Coburg Maj S Klein

*SK/LK Hof Hof Maj H L Woodall
*SK/LK Ansbach Ansbach Capt J R Palmer, Actg
*SK/LK Furth Furth Maj A C Abbott
*SK/LK Kulmbach Kulmbach Maj H T Lund

*LK Kronach Kronach Capt J F Begley

*LK Lichtenfels Lichtenfels Maj F W Crimp

*LK Ebermannstadt Ebermannstadt Maj R T Boyer

*LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch Hochstadt a. d. Aisch Capt O E Palmer

*LK Pegnitz Pegnitz Capt M G Stamatis
*LK Munchberg Munchberg Maj H C Kauffman

* Liaison and Security

26

--- Page 30 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken (Cont'd)

*LK Rehau

*LK Wunsiedel
*LK Forchheim
*LK Dinkelsbuhl
*LK Eichstatt
*LK Feuchtwangen
*LK Gunzenhausen
*LK Hersbruck
*LK Hilpolstein
*LK Weissenburg
*LK Rothenburg
*LK Schwabach
*LK Scheinfeld
*LK Uffenheim
*LK Lauf

*LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch
*LK Naila

*LK Stadtsteinach

Rehau
Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbuhl
Eichstatt
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Hersbruck
Hilpolstein
Weissenburg _
Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld
Windsheim
Lauf
Neustadt a. d. Aisch
Naila
Stadtsteinach

Capt W W Evans
Maj T Cleary

Maj H W Zurn
Capt J F Wyatt
Capt R J Towle

Ist Lt D J Smith
Maj R J Nielson
Ist Lt L D Franklin
Capt R E Peters

Ist Lt W C Williams
Maj F K Hinchey
Maj R E Stringer
Capt G B Jones
Capt L C Wheeler
Capt N A Carr

Maj C J Cody

Capt G N Hultren
Capt H C Moore

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern und Oberpfalz

Co D
*SK/LK Regensburg

*SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt a. d. Wald

*SK/LK Passau
*SK/LK Amberg
*SK/LK Landshut
*SK/LK Straubing

*LK Cham

*LK Burglengenfeld
*LK Parsberg

*LK Tirschenreuth

*LK Neunberg vorm Wald
*LK Eschenbach

*LK Deggendorf

*LK Eggenfelden

*LK Grafenau

*LK Kelheim

*LK Landau a. d. Isar
*LK Pfarrkirchen

*LK Regen

*LK Vilshofen

*LK Vilsbiburg

*LK Wolfstein

*LK Kemnath

*LK Nabburg

*LK Oberviechtach

*LK Riedenberg

*LK Vohenstrauss

*LK Roding

*LK Waldmuenchen
*LK Beilngries

*LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
*LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg
*LK Bogen

*LK Dingolfing

*LK Griesbach

*LK Kotzting

*LK Mainburg

*LK Mallersdorf

*LK Rottenburg

*LK Viechtach

*LK Wegscheid

* Liaison and Security

Regensbur,
Regensburg
Weiden
Passau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunberg
eechenbae
eggendor:
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau a. d. Isar
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsbiburg
Wolfstein
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
Waldmuenchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Bogen
Dingolfing
Griesbach
Kotzting
Mainburg
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
Wegscheid

27

Lt Col Hastings

Capt J W Bossert
Maj G J Geiner

Maj H L Snapp

Maj J C Robertson
Maj T R Coykendall
Capt G L Milner

Ist Lt E A McNamara
1st Lt R W Crowley
1st Lt T B Wofford
Capt L R Mariels

Ist Lt L W Kutz
Capt R O Woodward
1st Lt H Cohen

Lt S Fuchs

Ist Lt R M McWhorter
Capt D Stacy

1st Lt N Fueglein
Ist Lt N Ugland

Lt M J Sibal

Capt G W Cunningham
Lt J D Brooks

Capt M J Jarvis

Ist Lt W W Green
Capt E J Gallant
Capt C_H Smallwood
Ist Lt P J Piccola
Capt J F Leech

Capt D K Nickerson
Ist Lt F Henry

Maj E Fichter

Ist Lt M W Doane
Ist Lt T A Winkelspecht
Ist Lt W Y Murphey
Capt J W Fleshman
1st Lt G L Thomas
Lt J C Mitchell

Ist Lt H H K Theune
Lt P A Nesbit

lst Lt CG Dansby
Capt R E Pike

Ist Lt K J Miller

--- Page 31 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Co E

*SK/LK Munich
*SK/LK Rosenheim
*SK/LK Ingolstadt
*SK/LK Freising
*LK Miesbach

*LK Traunstein
*LK Altoetting
*LK Garmisch-Partenkirchen
*LK Erding

*LK Laufen

*LK Muhldorf

*LK Wasserburg
*LK Toelz

*LK Aibling

*LK Fuerstenfeldbruck
*LK Landsberg
*LK Pfaffenhofen
*LK Starnberg

*LK Weilheim

*LK Wolfratshausen
*LK Berchtesgaden
*LK Ebersberg
*LK Aichach

*LK Schrobenhausen
*LK Dachau

*LK Schongau

Co G

*SK/LK Augsburg
*SK/LK Kempten
*LK Dillingen

*LK Neu Ulm

*LK Sonthofen

*LK Donauwérth
*LK Gunzberg

*LK Markt Oberdorf
*LK Memmingen
*LK Mindelheim
*LK Neuberg

*LK Nordlingen
*LK Fussen

*LK Krumbach
*LK Illertissen

*LK Kaufbeuren
*LK Wertingen
*LK Friedberg

*LK Schwabmunchen

Office of Mil Gov for
US Sector Berlin District

Office of Mil Gov for
Bremen Enclave (US)
Wesermiinde Detachment

* Liaison and Security

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Munich

Munich
Rosenheim
Ingolstadt
Freising
Miesbach
Traunstein
Altoetting
Partenkirchen
Erding

Laufen
Muhldorf
Wasserburg
Bad Toelz

Bad Aibling
Fuerstenfeldbruck
Landsberg
Pfaffenhofen
Starnberg
Weilheim
Wolfratshausen
Berchtesgaden
Ebersberg
Aichach
Schrobenhausen
Dachau
Schongau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Augsburg
Augsburg
Kempten
Dillingen
Weissenhorn
Sonthofen
Donauworth
Gunzber,

Markt Oberdorf
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Nordlingen
Fussen
Krumbach
Tllertissen
Kaufbeuren
Wertingen
Friedberg
Schwabmunchen

US SECTOR BERLIN DISTRICT

(APO 155)

Berlin

BREMEN ENCLAVE
(APO %51)

Bremen
Weserminde

28

Lt Col R J Philpott
Lt Col E Keller

Capt R H Necel

Lt Col J H Kelly

Lt Col H E Blakeley
Capt W T Lovett
Capt V L Thom

Capt C W Larimer
Maj M W Nitz

Maj C A Brown
Capt N W Borring
Capt W M Forys
Capt D Root

Capt W N Dickerson
Maj E J H Newmeyer
Ist Lt C C Boatwright
Maj C A Rein

Capt O M Cole

Maj C E Carlsen
Capt M J Groves
Maj P L Steers Jr
Maj M Lawrence
Capt E J Pennetto
Ist Lt H_ J_ Thompson
Capt H J Bierman
Maj A G Snow

Capt C S Garber

Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Lt Col R S Wagner
Maj RJ Paul ~
Capt J A Morris
Maj J E Rhea

Capt R Glass

Ist Lt E A Eaton
Capt B M Green

1st Lt W M Toepser
Capt L A Troter
Capt E D Schank

Lt P W Thomson
Capt S D Lubin

Ist Lt O H Sager
Capt J O Renalds
Capt D G Stevens
Lt P F Moskowitz
Capt D J Moran
Capt T B Greaves

Col F L Howley

Col B C Welker
Lt Col L S Diggs