--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT NUMBER 58 / 9 SEPTEMBER 1946

% * US SPORTS FOR GERMAN YOUTH

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN~
OPF MARBURG
{LAUTERBACH
OBER =
LAHNKREIS

Has aa
arn QBERTAUNUS|

og
OFFENBACH

GROSS~
GERAU|
OIEBURG
DARMSTAD’

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

AUBER BISCH ~
OFSHEIM
MOSBACH

HEILBRONN

ROTEN BURG

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

nin

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Top Secret Control Procedure

Emergency Return of Military Personnel to Zone of Interior

Excess Issue of Black Dyed Clothing .

Employees’ Suggestion and Awards Program

Allied Military Missions .

German Personnel Working in Rear Echelon and OMGUS Field Agencies
Authorized Allowances. of Insect, Vermin, Rodent Control Items and

Office Supplies .
Use of ‘Documents Classified ‘Restricted’”’ by Responsible Officials

of German Government Dod 000
Establishment of an Employee Council in OMGUS

German Personnel Receiving One Meal Daily

Limitation of the ‘Characteristics of Ships Left at the Disposal of
Germany, CORC/P(46)264 (Final)

Reduction of Personnel .

Monthly Report of Ministers for Political Liberation Relating to Per-
sons in German Labor Camps

Reorganization of the Railway Police .

Fares for Allied Personnel on German Local Conveyances .

Land Representatives at Office of Military Government for Germany (US).

Vetting of Employees of Military Installations .

Recommendations to Zone Commanders on Factory Inspection

AG 371.2 GBI-AGO
12 August 1946, USFET

AG 210.711 GAP-AGP
22 August 1946, USFET

AG 420 RMJ-AGO
24 August 1946, USFET

AG 415 (PO)
24 August 1946, OMGUS

AG 091.112 (SG)
24 August 1946, OMGUS

AG 230 (CO)
26 August 1946, OMGUS

AG 729 RMJ-AGO
26 August 1946, USFET

AG 380.01 (SG)
26 August 1946, OMGUS

AG 322 (PO)
26 August 1946, OMGUS

AG 230 (CO)
26 August 1946, OMGUS
AG 560.1 (CO)

26 August 1946, OMGUS

AG 200.3(PO)
26 August 1946, OMGUS

AG 050 (CO)
27 August 1946, OMGUS

AG 014.12 (TD)
28 August 1946, OMGUS

AG 500 (TD)
28 August 1946, OMGUS

AG 091.112 (PO)

28 August 1946, OMGUS
APO 333 (IA)

28 August 1946, OMGUS

AG 004.06 (MD)
29 August 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin

may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
Signal Corps Photo
US SPORTS FOR GERMAN YOUTH — The
picture on this week's cover shows a group
of German children at an elementary school
in Heidelberg engaged in the recreation pro-
gram which the American Army has set up
for them. A GI from the 17th Cavalry Regt.
does his part by supervising the game.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

“Proof of Nazi Guilt” is an abstract of the
summation address by Robert H. Jackson,
Associate Justice of the US Supreme Court
and US chief prosecutor at the International
War Trials in Nuremberg. His opening address
was published in Issue No. 33 of the “Weekly
Information Bulletin” on 16 March 1946.

The need for a central department for food
and agriculture is outlined in Central German
Agencies: Part 5. This is the fifth in a series
of eight articles taken from the OMGUS re-
port of the same title. The report is the first
concrete blueprint for central German agen-
cies as outlined in the Potsdam Agreement.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY
Proof of Nazi Guilt

Orientation Program
Central German Agencies: Part 5
These are the Accused

Kindertest
GENERAL
GERMAN REACTIONS
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENT

PAGE

12
14

16
19
20

--- Page 7 ---
Justice Jackson Shows Hitler’s Acts Were Shared by All
22 Defendents in Summation of Nuremberg Trial Evidence

I: eight months . . . we have introduced
evidence which embraces as vast and varied
a panorama of events as has ever been com-
pressed within the framework of a litigation.
It is impossible in summation to do more
than outline with bold strokes the vitals of
this trial’s mad and melancholy record, which
will live as the historical text of the
Twentieth Century’s shame and depravity.

It is common to think of our own time as
standing at the apex of civilization, from
which the deficiencies of preceding ages may
patronizingly be viewed in the light of what
is assumed to be “progress.” The reality
is that in the long perspective of history
the present century will not hold an ad-
mirable position, unless its second half is
to redeem its first....

No half-century ever witnessed slaughter
on such a scale, such cruelties and inhuman-
ities, such wholesale deportations of peoples
into slavery, such annihilations of minor-
ities.... If we cannot eliminate the causes
and prevent the repetition of these barbaric
events, it is not irresponsible prophecy to
say that this Twentieth Century may yet
succeed in bringing the doom of civilization.

REDRESSING BLIGHT ON OUR ERA

Goaded by these facts, we have moved to
redress the blight on the record of our era.
The defendants complain that our pace is
too fast. In drawing the Charter of this
Tribune, we thought we were recording an
accomplished advance” in International
Law.... The society of nations... seeks

--- Page 8 ---
to apply sanctions to enforce International
Law, but to guide their application by
evidence, law and reason... .

I shall rest upon the law of these crimes
as laid down in the Charter. The defendants,
who except for the Charter would have no
right to be heard at all,,now ask that the
legal basis of this trial be nullified. This
Tribunal, of course, is given no power to
set aside or to modify the Agreement between
the Four Powers, to which eighteen other
nations have adhered. The terms of the
Charter are conclusive upon every party to
these proceedings....

The future will never have to ask, with
misgiving, “What could the Nazis have said
in their favor?” History will know that
whatever could be said. they were allowed
to say. They have been given the kind of

(Above, left) The prosecution at the Nuremberg trials presents evi-
dence against Ernst Kaltenbrunner; (above) US Chief Judge Francis Biddle,
participates in the questioning of Fritz Sauckel, Nazi labor leader.

a trial which they, in the days of their
pomp and power, never gave to any man...
The fact is that the testimony of the defen-
dants has removed any doubts of guilt which,
because of the extraordinary nature and
magnitude of these crimes, may have existed
before they spoke. They have helped write
their own judgment of condemnation.

ON TRIAL FOR OVERT ACTS

But justice in this case has nothing to do
with some of the arguments put forth by
the defendants or their counsel. We have
not previously and we need not now discuss
the merits of all their obscure and tortuous
philosophy. We are not trying them for
possession of obnoxious ideas.... The in-
tellectual bankruptcy and moral perversion
of the Nazi regime might have been no con-

Signal Corps Photos

--- Page 9 ---
cern of International Law had it not been
utilized by the Herrenvolk across inter-
national frontiers. It is not their thoughts,
it is their overt acts which we charge to be
crimes....

‘We charge unlawful aggression but we
are not trying the motives, hopes or frust-
rations which may have. led Germany to
resort to aggressive war as an instrument
of policy.... We do say that it is now,
as it was for sometime prior to 1939, illegal
and criminal for Germany or any other
nation to redress grievances or seek ex-
pansion by resort to aggressive war....

The United States has no interest. which
would be advanced by the conviction of any
defendant if we have not proved him guilty
on at least one of the counts charged against
him in the indictment.... But in summation
we now have before us the tested evidences
of criminality and have heard the flimsy
excuses and paltry evasions of the defen-
dants.... The time has come for final
judgment...

CRIMES OF THE NAZI REGIME

The strength of the case against these
defendants under the conspiracy count....
involves but three ultimate inquiries: First,
have the acts defined by the Charter as
crimes been committed; second, were they
committed pursuant to a common plan or
conspiracy; third, are these defendants among
those who are criminally responsible? ....
The pillars which uphold the conspiracy
charge may be found in five groups of overt
acts, whose character and magnitude are
important considerations in appraising the
proof of conspiracy.

1. The Seizure of Power and Subjugation
of Germany to a Police State.... Goering,
in 1934, pointed out that its enemies were
legion and said, “Therefore the concentration
camps have been created where we have
first confined thousands of Communists and
Social Democrat functionaries.” In 1933,
Goering forecast the whole program of pur-
poseful cruelty and oppression when he
publicly announced: “Whoever in the future
raises a hand against a representative of the

National Socialist movement or of the State,
must know he will lose his life in a very
short while.”

New political crimes were created to this -
end. It was made a treason, punishable with
death, to organize or support a political
party other than the Nazi party.... Laws
were enacted of such ambiguity that they
could be used to punish.almost any innocent
act.... The doctrine of punishment by
analogy was introduced to enable con-
viction for acts which no statute forbade. ...
The Gestapo and the SD were insiru-
mentalities of an espionage system which
penetrated public and private life.... With
all administrative offices in Nazi control
and with the Reichstag reduced to impotence,
the judiciary remained the last obstacle to
this reign of terror. But its independence
was soon overcome and it was reorganized to
dispense a venal justice:... Special courts
were created to try policial crimes, only
party members were appointed judges. ..

The result was the removal of alll ¥

peaceable means either to resist or to change
the government. Having sneaked through
the portals of power, the Nazis slammed the
gate in the face of all others who might also
aspire to enter. Since the law was what the
Nazis said it was, every form of opposition
was rooted out, and every dissenting voice
throttled. Germany was in the clutch of a
police state, which used the fear of the con-
centration camp as a means to enforce non-
resistance. The Party was the State, the
State was the Party, and terror by day and
death by night were the policy of both.
2.The Preparation and Waging of Wars
of Aggression, From the moment the Nazis
seized power, they set about feverish but
stealthy efforts, in defiance of the Versailles
Treaty, to arm for war. In 1933 they found
no air force. By 1939 they had 21 squad-
rons.... In 1933 they found an army of
three infantry and three cavalry divisions.
By 1939 they had raised and equipped an
army of 51 divisions.... In 1933 they found
a navy of one cruiser and six light cruisers.
By 1939 they had built a navy of four
battleships, one aircraft carrier, six cruisers,

(Continued on page 21)

--- Page 10 ---
ORIENTATION

View of the “Goldfish Bowl,” exhibition
room at OMGUS, one of the places
visited in the new orientation program.

Photo by PRO, OMGUS

PROGRAM

merican personnel arriving in the Euro-

pean Theater to engage in occupational
activities are being given a comprehensive
eight-hour briefing to orient them in the
conditions in Germany today; the peculiar-
ities in German life, customs and attitudes,
and the general situations which may con-
front them.

The orientation course, set up and increas-
ed from two to eight hours in accordance
with a recent USFET directive, eliminates
many of the doubts, mistaken ideas and mis-
conceptions which many newcomers have on
their arrival. It gives them in one day a
clearer conception of Germany and Military
Government than previously might have been
acquired in months of experience.

The OMGUS orientation course, which is
given the second and fourth Mondays of
each month, is opened with a message of
welcome by the Chief of Staff. The group
is given a brief view of the over all policy
in Germany and the accomplishments of
Military Government. Another speaker out-
lines the OMGUS suggestion campaign, in

which employees are urged to make sugges-
tions for developing greater efficiency in the
organization and greater economy in its
operations.

A detailed explanation of the organization
of Military Government in Germany, its
accomplishments during the past year and
its present policies of occupation is given
by the Chief of the Training Section, Per-
sonnel Office. The Potsdam Agreement, basic
pattern for the treatment of occupied Ger-
many and for instilling democratic ideas and
principles in its government and institutions,
is explained along with a summary of pro-
gress toward accomplishing the Agreement’s
goals. With the aid of charts, a resume is
presented of the organization and functions
of USFET, the Allied Control Authority,
the Berlin Kommandantura and various
quadripartite organizations funtioning in
Germany.

The group is taken on a visit to the “Gold-
fish Bowl,” famed exhibition room located
in the Director’s Building at OMGUS Head-
quarters. In this room are graphs, charts,

--- Page 11 ---
maps and posters giving a description of
the work being done by Military Government
and artistically portraying its accomplish-
ments in Germany.

The responsibilities, limitations and rights
of the individual worker are explained
by the Employee Relations Officer. He tells
of his work in helping the employees in
ironing out their difficulties and in improving
working conditions.

GERMAN HISTORY EXPLAINED

The principal address on the historical
background of Germany is given by Dr.
Harry L. Franklin, Special Assistant to the
Secretary General of OMGUS. His talk,
entitled “Germany and the German People,”
covers the history of the German people,
including the rise of the Prussian State with
its militaristic ideas. In explaining the dis-
proven German theory of a superior race,
Dr. Franklin says:

“Pan-Germanism taught the German peo-
ple that they were a superior race, that mil-
itarism was a fine thing developing superior
qualities in the Germans, and that democracy
was an inferior form of political life. At first
this theory was more or less restricted to the
upper classes and intelligentsia of Germany,
but Hitler took the theory of pan-Germanism
and popularized it on a vast scale until it
penetrated all German life and became a
passion of all the German people.”

In describing the efforts of the Germans
to seek sympathy and to exaggerate their
troubles, Dr. Franklin warns the group,
“All of them will hand you a line. They
will tell you of the evils of the Versailles
Treaty, that the Poles started the war, and
so forth. It is part of our duty to tell them
some straight facts for a change. Don’t walk
away without answering them because they
will think they have convinced you of their
line. Instead, stand up to these people and
tell them that Hitler’s rise to power is their
own responsibility and that we don’t intend
to let them do it again.”

A brief discussion follows the talk to give

the members of the group opportunity. to ask
questions concerning German history and to
correct misconceptions concerning the people
with which they are to deal. This discussion
period has created such interest that a time
limit had to be set.

The morning session of the day’s program
is concluded with an informative talk by the
Provost Marshal of the Berlin District. He
points out that although the incoming ci-
vilians are not in the Army they are subject
to Army regulations the same as soldiers are.
He explains the MG court system, the dif-
ference in American and German police sys-
tems, and the importance of keeping billets
locked and valuables secure. In touching on
black market activities in the city, he points
out that Americans who seek certain items
from the Germans can best secure them by
dealing through Berlin’s new barter shop.

At luncheon, talks are given by represen-
tatives of social and recreational organiza-
tions, such as Information and Education
Services, Special Services, American Red
Cross and religious services. The newcomers
are told of the pleasures offered in the Red
Cross tours of Berlin and Potsdam, programs
of study at the American University of Ber-
lin sailing and boating parties on Wannsee,
church services and library facilities.

TALKS BY BRANCH OFFICIALS

An official of a branch in OMGUS is the
principal luncheon speaker, presenting a de-
tailed account of the operations of his par-
ticular field. At the first session of the course,
the speaker was James S. Martin, Chief of
the Decartelization Branch, Economics Di-
vision. In telling of the rise of the gigantic
combines in Germany, he said trusts, like
I. G. Farben, controlled either directly or
indirectly practically all the industry in
Germany. Also six banks which had common
or interlocking directorates and were closely
linked with the large trusts, controlled most
of the finance business in Germany. These
giant cartels and monopolies are being
broken up so that the concentration of eco-
nomic power will never again be in the

(Continued on page 27)

--- Page 12 ---
CENTRAL

he German Central Administrative De-

partment for Food and Agriculture is
to be responsible to the Allied Control
Authority and in general exercise such
central powers and controls, and provide
such overall coordination in matters of food
and agriculture, as the Allied Control
Authority may assign to it in accordance
with the objectives of Military Government
and the Berlin Protocol.

The Department has the double function
of an advisory and executive body. In the
initial stage its functions will be predomi-
nantly of an advisory character; as close
supervision and direction by the Allied Con-
trol Authority will be reduced, its executive
functions will increase. The Department’s
activities will be limited, as far as possible, to
planning and programming, while the actual
execution of the program will be left to the
Laender and Provincial governments. It will,
however, be responsible for its execution and
will, therefore, have supervisory jurisdiction.

GERMAN

AGENCIES

GRICULTURE

Governmental
matters was, on the whole, not centralized
under the German Monarchy, but in ac-
cordance with the federal structure of the
Reich, was left to the administration of the
various Laender. No central Reich authority

control of agricultural

for agriculture existed before the First
World War. Only during the war a cen-
tralized system was adopted and allocation
and distribution of foodstuffs were handled
by various war agencies and war cor-
porations.

REICH MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE

The Reich Ministry of Agriculture which
was established by the Weimar Republic
exercised only limited functions and had no
regional and local administrative apparatus.
Responsibility for most functions rested
with the Land Ministries. The Reich Ministry
functioned predominantly as advisor to the
Reich government with regard to farm
credits, subsidies, tariffs and taxes. In ad-
dition, improved practices in agricultural

--- Page 13 ---
production, farm credit institutions and
cooperatives were promoted by the Ministry.
Land settlement was carried out through
public corporations, under the supervision

of the central Ministry. In the late twenties -

the Ministry extended its field of control by
subsidizing the marketing of livestock prod-
ucts and grains.

OPERATION DURING NAZI,REGIME

During the Nazi period drastic changes
“took place in the agricultural administration
with the introduction of the Reich Food
Estate in 1933. For the purposes of war and
increased efficiency the Nazis put into effect
a very complex system of food controls
reaching down, as never before, into the lives
of every farmer, processor and food dealer.
The old Ministry with its conventional de-
partments carried on: its previous functions,
while production and marketing controls
were developed by, the Reich Food Estate.
During the latter stages of war, however,

the two agencies were merged and the Reich —

Food Estate became an executive branch of
the Ministry.

FUNCTIONS OF PROPOSED AGENCY

It is now proposed to establish a depart-
ment with the following functions: All sta-
tistical work and the determination of food
surpluses; available for export and the rec-
ommendations of food import requirements;
planning production programs, including
methods of fulfilling them; allocating pro-
duction and delivery quotas to the Laender
and Provinces as well as materials and
facilities required for production, marketing,
and processing; supervising the enforcement
of collections; supervising of marketing and
processing activities; coordinating the assign-
ment of overall commodity quotas to market-
ing and processing agencies; managing the
overall rationing system including the
establishment and enforcement of uniform
ration scales, recommendation of policy for
overall control and revision of farm product
prices and tariffs; coordination of plans
for wages, wage arbitration, organization and
conditions of work for agricultural labor;

10

and planning nationwide food transport,
including estimates of requirements and al-
location of priorities.

In addition, it will formulate policies and
‘on a restricted basis will supervise the ad-

‘ministration of agricultural land reform;

land settlement; land development and con-
servation; water administration in cooper-

--ation with ‘other agencies; forest: -adminis-

tration including forest policy, management,

finance and protection; agricultural coopera-
tives; agricultural information, agricultural
education and advising services; fishing and
hunting regulations; plant protection; seed
certification; veterinary services; and agri-
cultural and forestry research, experimen-
tation and testing. In cooperation with the
Central Finance Department it will for-
mulate agricultural credit policy.

LOCAL ADMINISTRATION

So far as practicable, local administration
and supervision will be delegated to the
Laender which will be charged with imple-
mentation of production programs, suballo-
cation of quotas assigned to the Land,
supervision of marketing and processing
activities, administration of the rationing
system, of agricultural schools and inland
fisheries, administration of public land and
the execution of policies decided by the
Department.

The Central Food and.Agriculture Depart-
ment will be responsible to the Allied
Control Authority. In order to exercise
effectively this control a Quadripartite
Bureau for Food and Agriculture should be
established within the Allied Control Author-
ity under the Food and Agriculture Com-
mittee and should be charged with full
responsibility for the supervision of the
German Central Agency. The Bureau should
be given definite executive powers within
established policies, so that supervision of
the operation of the German Central Agency
can be effectively carried out, and the
Bureau should be authorized to communicate
directly with other sections of the Allied
Control Authority on matters relating to

--- Page 14 ---
CENTRAL GERMAN ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT
FOOD & AGRICULTURE

} Sar

food and agriculture, such as foreign trade,
internal commerce and industry.

The relationship between the Central
German Agency and Allied Control Author-
ity will gradually change. During the
initial stage of organization and staffing,
specific and detailed supervision and dir-
ection by the Allied Bureau for Food and
Agriculture will be necessary. During a
second stage, the Food and Agriculture
Department will have to secure the assent
of the Allied Bureau in all major policy
questions, and all functions assigned to it
by Allied Control Authority will be reviewed
at regular intervals. :

REVIEW OF POLICY MATTERS

_ During the final stage, controls may
be limited to a broad. review of policy
matters. Routine matters which fall within
the frame of delegated. powers will be
reported to the Allied Bureau at certain
stated intervals. The Allied Bureau -will
in turn decide most other issues brought
to it by the German Central Agency. Only

il

matters of highest policy nature will be re-
ferred by the Allied Bureau to the Control
Council through the Coordinating Committee
for specific decision.

The Department is headed by a Secretary
of State responsible for the entire agency
to the Allied Control Authority through the
Allied Bureau for Food and Agriculture.
The principal divisions and their functions
are as follows:

‘1. Administration and Personnel Di-
vision — Internal administrative matters
including financial arrangements, organi-
zation and personnel.

2. Agriculture and Food Legislation
Division — Draft new agricultural and
food legislation to carry out a uniform
food and agricultural program.

3. Agricultural Economics Division —
Functions of planning and supervision of
agricultural prices, the agricultural credit
system, producers subsidies, farm taxes,
farmers’ cooperatives, tariffs and related
subjects.

4. Land and Settlement Division —

(Continued on page 28)

--- Page 15 ---
Sketched from life by Henry W. Koerner

he characierizations given by Justice

Jackson of the defendants in his summa-
tion address at the Nuremberg war crimes
trials follow:

The large and varied role of Goering as
half militarist and half gangster, sticking a
pudgy finger in every pie . . . He was, next
to Hitler, the man who tied the activities of
all the defendants together in a common effort.

The zealot Hess, before succumbing to
wanderlust, was the engineer tending the
Party machinery, passing orders and pro-
paganda down to the Leadership Corps, su-
pervising every aspect of Party activities, and
maintaining the organization as a loyal and
ready instrument of power.

‘When apprehensions abroad threatened
the success of the Nazi scheme for conquest,
it was the duplicitous Ribbentrop, the sales-
man of deception, who was detailed to pour
oil on the troubled waters of suspicion by
preaching the gospel of limited and peaceful
intentions.

Keitel, weak and willing tool, delivered

1

the armed forces, the instrument of aggres-
sion, over to the Party and directed them in
executing its felonous designs.

Kaltenbrunner, the grand inquisitor, took
up the bloody mantle of Heydrich to stifle
opposition and terrorize compliance, and but-
tressed the power of National Socialism on a
foundation of guiltless corpses.

It was Rosenberg, the intellectual high
priest of the “master race,” who provided
the doctrine of hatred which gave the im-
petus for the annihilation of Jewry, and put
his infidel theories into practice against the
eastern occupied territories. His wooly phil-
osophy also added boredom to the long list
of Nazi atrocities.

The fanatical Frank, who solidified Nazi
control by establishing the new order of
authority without law, so that the will of the
Party was the only test of legality, proceed-
ed to export his lawlessness to Poland, which
he governed with the lash of Caesar and
whose population he reduced to sorrowing
remnants.

--- Page 16 ---
Frick, the ruthless organizer, helped the
Party to seize power, supervised the police
agencies to. insure that it stayed in power,
and chained the economy of Bohemia and
Moravia to the German war machine.

Streicher, the venomous vulgarian, manu-
factured and distributed obscene racial libels
which incited the populace to accept and
assist the progressively savage operations of
“race purification.”

As minister of economics Funk accelerated
the pace of rearmament, and as Reichsbank
president banked for the SS the gold teeth

fillings of concentration camp victims —
probably the most ghoulish collateral in
banking history.

It was Schacht, the facade of starched re-
spectability, who in the early days provided
the window dressing, the bait for the hesitant,
and whose wizardry later made it possible
for Hitler to finance the colossal rearmament
program, and to do it secretly.

Doenitz, Hitler’s legatee of defeat, promot-
ed the success of the Nazi aggressions by in-
structing his pack of submarine killers to
conduct warfare at sea with the illegal
ferocity of the jungle.

Raeder, the political admiral, stealthily
built up the Germany navy in defiance of the
Versailles Treaty, and then put it to use in
a series of aggressions which he had taken
a large part in planning.

Von Schirach, poisoner of a generation,
initiated the German youth in Nazi doctrine,
trained them in legions for service in the
SS and Wehrmacht, and delivered them up
to the Party as fanatic, unquestioning exe-
cutors of its will.

Sauckel, the greatest and cruelest slaver

--- Page 17 ---


--- Page 18 ---
i he pictures on these two pages show
activity at a recent outing sponsered by
US Constabulary units near Plentigen, Ger-
many. Desiring to do their part in the good-
will program being carried out by US per-
sonnel towards German children, the con-
stabulary soldiers invited scores of children
to the “Kinderfest” and treated them to
everything from refreshments to swing rides.

(Above) Candy collected by the Gl's for the "Kinder-
fest; (below right) athletic equipment being distrib-
uted; (below left) the children being returned fo their
homes; (opposite page, left) the children take a swing
ride; (opposite page, right) a constabulary soldier
holding one of his youthful guests. Signal Corps Photos

--- Page 19 ---
Zone Food Revival Praised

“Progress on food production in the Amer-
ican Occupation Zone is particularly sig-
nificant in the light of handicaps under which
American officials and German farmers have
operated,” Norris E. Dodd, US Under-Sec-
retary of Agriculture, declared after a 30-
day tour of ten countries and the four zones
of Germany.

Mr. Dodd added, “The progress made in

‘ establishing home gardens and the contribu-
‘tion these gardens are making to the overall
food supply ... are particularly noticeable.”

Mr. Dodd is the chairman of a mission
touring Europe to obtain first-hand informa-
tion on food production, and to determine
how much food must be supplied by the
United States to meet the food needs of
Europe. After attending the UNRRA con-
ference in Geneva, the party visited Rome,
Athens, Bucharest, Vienna, Prague, Frank-
furt, Paris, Brussels, The Hague and Berlin.

The group was impressed by the come-
back in food and agricultural conditions
which has been made throughout most of
Europe in the past six months, but Mr. Dodd
felt that the real problems could be solved
only by full cooperation of the occupying
nations and the German people.

Insulin Shipments

Approximately 17,000,000,000 units of
insulin, enough to make up the deficiency
between the amount produced monthly in
ihe US Zone and that needed to sustain life
for the Zone’s 20,000 diabetics, will arrive
soon in Germany from the United States.
Shipments will be handled during the next
six months by the Council of Relief Agencies
Lincesed to Operate in Germany (CRALOG).

Present indigenous insulin production
is between six and seven million units per
month, while the minimum amount required
for the Zone’s diabetics is estimated at

16

21,000,000 units. German producti
sulin had fallen off because o: ure
in delivery of essential organs of slaughtered
cattle to chemical plants.

Upon arrival of the insulin in Germany,
it will be turned over to German medical
authorities for distribution under strictest
medical supervision to the diabetics of the
US Zone. The insulin will not be used for
treatment of any disease other than diabetes.

Political Advisor Honored

US Ambassador Robert D. Murphy, Po-
litical Advisor to the Military Governor, was
awarded the French military Croix de Guer-
re with Palms for his work with the French
in preparing the succesful landing of Amer-
ican troops in North Africa in November,
1942. The citation accompanying the medal
presented by Gen. Pierre Koenig, French
Commander-in-Chief and Military Governor
in Germany, said, “Mr. Robert D. Murphy,
Personal Representative of President Roose-
velt in North Africa in 1941—1942, played
an important role in the liberation of French
North Africa ... and reduced to a minimum
the collision between the American forces
and the French forces under the authority
of Vichy.”

Mr. Murphy served as Consul and First
Secretary in Paris from 1936 to 1939 and
Counselor of the Embassy from 1939 to 1941.
Under a Presidential directive of November
1940, he proceeded to French North Africa
where he worked to keep France on the side
of the Allies and where he was later influen-
tial in facilitating the North African land-
ings of the American Expeditionary Forces
under General Eisenhower. For this he was
awarded the Distinguished Service Medal
in 1943.

In 1943-1944 he was given the personal
rank of Ambassador and made the US
Member of the Advisory Council of the Al-
lied Control Commission in Italy. Since

--- Page 20 ---
August, 1944, he has served as Political
Advisor first to General’ Eisenhower and
then to General McNarney:

OMGUS Personnel

Alvin J. Rockwell has been appointed
Director of the Legal Division, OMGUS,
and Legal Advisor to the Military Governor
and Deputy Military Governor. He has been
with the Legal Division for a year, being its
acting director since June.

Col. John M. Raymond was named as As-
sociate Director of the Legal Division.

Maj. Harold F. Mullaney has been named
Chief of the Labor Relations Branch, Man-
power Division, OMGUS. He has been with
the branch since June, 1945.

William P. Abbey was named Denazifica-
tion Legal Officer of the Office of Personal
Advisor to the Deputy Military Governor on
Denazification. He succeeded Philip Elman.

Dr. Albert B. Newman is returning to his
post as Dean of Engineering in the College
of the City of New York after serving 14
months as head of the Chemicals Section, In-
dustry Branch, Economics Division, OMGUS.

Theodore H. Ball was named Deputy Di-
rector of the Finance Division, OMGUS, after
serving several months as Chief of the For-
eign Exchange and Blocking Control Branch.

Col. Walker W., Holler became Deputy
Director of the Armed Forces Division,
OMGUS, succeeding Col. Frank E. Emery, Jr.

British Housing Plan

A coordinated housing policy recognizing
the needs of the British authorities and those
of the German civil population has been in-
troduced in the British Zone. Standing com-
mittees for accomodation are being set up at
zonal and regional levels. The regional hous-
ing officer will receive 14-day notice of prop-
erty to be requisitioned and the agreement
of the local Kreis officer must also be ob-
tained except in an emergency.

No housing property will be requisitioned
without the consent of the Kreis officer. In
cases of dispute the regional committee will

17

adjudicate. The Kreis officer is responsible

.to see that the interests of the-Germans re-

ceive fair consideration.

British Zone Activities

The grain harvest in the Briitsh Zone was
nearly double the estimate for the first two
weeks in August. The yield of more than
60,000 tons during this period brought the
total grain harvest up to 15 August to nearly
74,000 tons.

A survey in the western part of Schleswig-
Holstein showed the population overwhelm-
ingly in favor of a newspaper which
places nationalism above politics. Political
parties, however, are demanding party papers
in Schleswig-Holstein.

Henry Vaughan Berry, formerly Regional
Commissioner for Westphalia, has assumed
the duties of Commissioner of Hansestadt
Hamburg.

Approximate population figures for the
British Zone have been announced as totaling
22,691,463 on 1 August. These excluded the
British Sector of Berlin and the stadtkreise
of Wesermunde and Bremen.

Indications of large numbers of forged
ration documents were uncovered during
July, but ration card thefts decreased. Ger-
mans were being constantly warned against
carelessness and neglect concerning their
ration cards.

Monthly bicycle production increased from
about 5,000 in January to 25,000 in June.
The majority of the new bicycles were for
officials and workers of the mining industry,
railroad workers and those engaged in
essential MG services.

Air Mail from US

The first foreign air mail from the United
States to Germany arrived in Berlin on
29 August. In a brief ceremony the mail was
received in the name of the German Reichs-
post, which used the cancelling stamp “Ber-
lin Zentralflughafen” for the first time since
1933. Fifteen hundred first covers were
backstamped and carried back to La Guardia
Field by the same airmail Plane.

--- Page 21 ---
ZONE NEWS BRIEFS

Employment in the US Zone increased by
163,000, or three percent, during July to
a new record of 5,638,000. Industry
accounted for 52 percent of the new
employment and agriculture 14 percent. Un-
employment declined by 43,000, or more than
nine percent, during July to a new low of
416,000.

The first Land trade union federation,
“Freier Gewerkschaftsbund Hessen,” was
formed provisionally in Greater Hesse. Auton-
omy of the Land unions was insured by
constitutional guarantees providing that (1)
industrial unions are to remain independent
in all matters affecting special interests of
their membership, and (2) only 15 percent of
dues collections will be given to the federa-
tion, the remaining 85 percent to be retained
by the industrial unions.

Two-page supplements will be permitted
all newspapers for the purpose of printing
full text of draft of constitutions prepared
by the Land constitutional assemblies.

EXPERIMENTAL SCHOOL

The Rudolf Steiner School at Nuremberg
has been approved as an experimental private
elementary school. This was the second
school of this type approved in Bavaria.

The authority of the Laenderrat Food Com-
missioner, originally delegated by the Min-
isters-President until 31 August, was ex-
tended to 30 November. The food commis-
sioner, in conjunction with the Land min-
isters of food and agriculture, has prepar-
ed a preliminary delivery program for
1946-47 for grains, oil seeds and potatoes.

The Bill of Rights of the Bavarian con-
stitution, containing 50 articles dealing with
fundamental rights and duties of the individ-
ual, marriage and family life, education and
schools, religion and religious organizations,
was passed by the Constitutional Assembly
and transmitted to OMGUS for review.

18

The identity card program has been hand-
icapped by lack of personnel. The trial
tribunals have objected to the employment
of former Nazis as clerks in the registration
program. The labor offices cannot provide
replacements for the persons removed.

During the first 24 days of August, 8,600
tons of bread grains and 10,700 tons of
other foods from the United States for Ger-
man civilian consumption were unloaded at

Bremen.
‘

PRODUCE DELIVERY PROGRAM

The preliminary farm produce delivery
program in the Zone calls for permitted an-
nual retention by the farm-producers of
about 343 pounds of bread grains for each
adult and 172 pounds for children under six
years of age. Permitted annual retention of
potatoes is 605 pounds per person for food
and about one ton per acre for seed. Not
more than 15 percent of crops is to be re-
tained as unfit for human consumption and
fed to liverstock.

In order to retain his increased food ra-
tion, an individual miner must have produc-
ed in August two percent more than his best
month in the second quarter of 1946. His
production must continue to show at least
a ten percent increase in September and ten
percent progressively each month until half
of the established goal is reached, at which
time his ration will be increased again.

ATHLETIC EQUIPMENT RELEASED

Fifteen thousand pairs: of soccer shoes are
being released from US Army stocks for
German youth activities.

In connection with American participation
in plans to orient Germans in’ democratic
ideas, 35 WAC’s in Frankfurt volunteered to
participate in discussion groups and sports,
or to teach English. A discussion group in
Wiesbaden has increased in three weeks from
14 'to 80 members.

--- Page 22 ---
Importance of Independent
German Press Emphasized

The character of a nation’s press is a
higher sign of democracy than the type of
government of that country, said the Wuerz-
burg Main-Post in a feature article 20 Au-
gust on the necessity of opposing attempts
by German governmental offices to tell what
could be published. Entitled “Freedom of
the Press and Official Mentality,” the ar-
ticle said:

“One must realize clearly that this official
mentality, which as the civilian variant of
militarism is just as old as the latter, had
been just as much the breeding-ground and
pathfinder for Nazism as its militant brother
-.. What danger this official mentality sig-
nifies for a growing democracy is obvious.
And this danger is directed mainly against
the quaintessence of democracy, the press.

“We speak today of the licensed press as
a ‘democratic press,’ but this should be a re-
dundancy. Because ‘press’ in the real signi-
ficance of the word is democratic anyway.
The sign of democracy is less its state-form,
which can be republican or monarchical, as
the character of the press. Only if the new
German press can keep itself free and in-
dependent of the guardianship and limita-
tions of opinion imposed by the official mind,
can there be the possibility of democracy in
Germany ....

“The American Military Government has
recently directed the licensed press to op-
pose actively the attempts of German gov-
ernmental offices which are aiming that press
and radio receive official news only through
official press bureaus. All efforts of the
state to hinder the free work of German in-
formation media are to be combatted by the
press . ...”

* * *

Zonal unity, discussed in four major news

stories, dominated the front pages of the

19

licensed newspapers : I
the week of 18—24 Atgust, according tothe
weekly analysis of the Office of Information
Control, OMGUS. The monthly report of
the Military Governor was bannerlined:
“Zonal Unity Necessary.” Newspapers of
Greater Hesse, and to a lesser extent the
entire press of the Zone, featured the New-
man-Geiler visit to Thuringia, climaxed by
the announcement of future economic dis-
cussions between the two Laender. The eco-
nomic unity meeting at Kissingen and the
announcement of the lifting of the travel bar-
riers between the British and US Zones pro-
duce optimistic accounts.

The Paris Peace Conference was reported
fully but there was little editorial comment.
The Rhein-Neckar Zeitung (Heidelberg) said,
“In the year and a quarter since the end of
hostilities in Europe, the unity of the Big
Four has succeeded to such an extent that
they could lay before all the nations con-
cerned their proposals. That represents pro-
gress on the way toward a stabilization of

Europe...”
* * *

Criticism voiced concerning present-day
conditions was assailed by the Fuldaer Volks-
zeitung which said, “Anyone in public life
learns daily that members of all classes of
society have fallen victim to a plague of
criticism which knows no limits. Each
knows only ‘his own truth,’ wants to know
nothing of the rights and wishes of others
and complains from morning to evening,
reinforced by a dictionary of new words he
heard in the rough days of war and bombing.”

In similar vein, the Mittelbayerische Zei-
tung (Regensburg) commented. “We Ger-
mans as a whole have brought untold misery
on a whole world, robbed hundreds of thou-
sands of American mothers and wives of
their sons and husbands, and are costing the
victors millions. Should we not be grateful
for not being paid back an eye for an eye?”

--- Page 23 ---
US Press Supports Motives
Behind Yugoslav Ultimatium

Highlighting comment in the American
press on the US note to Yugoslavia is the
emphasis placed on the paragraph which
said that if Yugoslavia failed to comply
within 48 hours to the demands made “the
US Government will call upon the security
council of the United Nations to meet
promptly and to take appropriate action.”

Editorials acclaimed this expression of
faith in international rather than unilateral
action. Many editors maintained the Yugo-
slay issue is symbolic of wider problems
facing the world and mirrors more resolute
defense by the United States of its principles
and position.

The New York Times said in part: “In
1914 and 1939 ultimatums were accom-
panied by immediate mobilizations, and were
followed by the clash of arms immediately
upon their expiration. This time, instead of
threatening immediate war; the American
ultimatum merely put the Government ad-
dressed on notice that if it failed to comply
with the American demands it would be
hauled into court: it would be brought be-
fore the security council of the United Na-
tions for appropriate action in conformity
with the best judgement of the world rather
than the unilateral judgment of the aggriev-
ed nation alone. This is in itself dramatic
illustration not only of America’s selfre-
straint and love of peace, but even more of
the value of a world authority like UN
in prevention of war ...

“That an ultimatum in this new style
does produce results is proved by the im-
mediate release of Americans aboard one of
the downed planes, who had been in Yugo-
slav custody since August 9, and by the
fact Tito has issued orders to his forces
not to fire on foreign planes again. This
action does not comply with all conditions

20

evidence io the contrary, i®mi
as at least an expression of Yugoslav in-
tentions to comply in full

“But even such a development cannot by
itself solve the deeper issues out of which
the crisis arose, and which are also justifica-
tion for America’s resort to so drastic a
measure as an ultimatum. One of these is-
sues is represented by the insolent attitude
of the Yugoslav Government, which turned

its guns upon the United States which armed
and. fed it..,<.”

False Rumors

Richard Eaton, commentator over Mutual
Broadcasting System, said after his recent
return from a trip through western and cen-
tral Europe: “Rumors fly thick and fast
around Berlin as to the exploits of the Rus-
sian soldiers after dark. Most of them are
false; but undoubtedly there have been many
cases of indiscipline in the Russian Zone,
more so than elsewhere. The result has been
an unreasoning, unjustified fear of the Rus-
sians instilled in the heart of the German
people, which has spread to our own men.

“When I told a sergeant in the railway
transportation office in Berlin that I was
leaving for the Russian Zone, he almost
begged me not to risk my life in that jungle;
four American officers had. disappeared
while traveling in the Russian Zone the week
before; you take your life in your hands.
Yet conversation with Allied officers on the
Control Commission, in daily contact with
the Russians, convinced me they are loyal
and cooperative. One of the chiefs of the
American Constabulary, for example, on the
Russo-American frontier zone, was loud
in his praise of Russian cooperation.

“Small wonder that the Control Commis-

sion has now named a special subcommittee
simply to answer false rumors.”

--- Page 24 ---
PROOF OF NAZI GUILT

22 destroyers and 54 submarines. They had
also built up in that period an armament
industry as efficient as that of any country
in the world. ,

These new weapons were put to use, com-
mencing in September 1939, in a series of
undeclared wars against nations with which
Germany had arbitration and non-aggression
treaties, and in violation of repeated assur-
ances... . By any test ever put forward by
any responsible authority, by all the canons
of plain sense, these were unlawful wars of
aggression in breach of treaties and in
violation of assurances.

3. Warfare in Disregard of International
Law..... Goering asserts that the Rules of
Land Warfare were obsolete, that no nation
could fight a total war within their
limits.... We need not, therefore, for pur-
poses of the conspiracy count, recite the
revolting details of starving, beating, mur-
dering, freezing and mass exterminating
admittedly used against the eastern soldiery.
Also, we may take as established or admitted
that the lawless conduct such as shooting
British and American airmen, mistreatment
of western prisoners of war, forcing French
prisoners of war into German war work,
and other deliberate violations of the Hague
and Geneva Conventions, did occur, and in
obedience to highest levels of authority.

4. Enslavement and Plunder of Populations
in Occupied Countries. The defendant
Sauckel, plenipotentiary géneral for the
utilization of labor, is authority for the
statement that “out of five million foreign
workers who arrived in Germany, not even
200,000 came voluntarily.” It was officially
reported to defendant Rosenberg that in his
territory “recruiting methods were used
which probably have their origin in the
blackest period of the slave trade”...

Populations of occupied countries were
otherwise exploited-and oppressed unmerci-
fully. Terrorism was the order of the day.
Civilians were arrested without charges,
committed without counsel, executed without
hearing. Villages were destroyed, the male

21

(Continued from page 6)

inhabitants shot or sent to concentration
camps, the women sent to forced labor, and
the children scattered abroad... .

Those who will enslave men cannot be
expected to refrain from plundering them.
Boastful reports show how thoroughly. and
scientifically the resources of occupied lands
were sucked into the German war economy,
inflicting shortage, hunger and inflation
upon the inhabitants. Besides this grand
plan to aid the German war effort there
were the sordid activities of the Rosenberg
Einsatzstab, which pillaged art treasures for
Goering and his fellow-bandits....

International Law at all times before and
during this war spoke with precision and
authority respecting the protection due
civilians of an occupied country, and the
slave trade and plunder of occupied countries
were at all times flagrantly unlawful.

5. Persecution and Extermination of
Jews and Christians. The Nazi movement
will be of evil memory in history because
of its persecution of the Jews, the most far-
flung and terrible racial persecution of all
time. Although the Nazi party neither in-
vented nor monopolized anti-Semitism, its
leaders from the very beginning embraced
it, incited it and exploited it. They used it
as “the psychological spark that ignites the
mob.” After the seizure of power, it became
an official state policy....

The program progressed in fury and
irresponsibility to the “final solution.” This
consisted of sending all Jews who were fit
to work to concentration camps as slave
laborers, and all who were not fit, which
included children under 12 and people over
50, as well as any others judged unfit by
an SS doctor, to concentration camps for
extermination. ...

Of course, any such program must reckon
with the opposition of the Christian Church.
This was recognized from the very begin-
ning. Defendant _ Bormann wrote all
Gauleiters in 1941 that “National Socialism
and Christian concepts are irreconciliable,”
and that the people must be separated from

--- Page 25 ---
the Churches and the influence of: the
Churches totally removed.... The Gestapo
appointed “Church specialists” who were
instructed that the ultimate aim was “de-
struction of the confessional Churches”. .. .

These, then, were the five great substan-
tive crimes of the Nazi regime. Their com-
mission, which cannot be denied, stands ad-
mitted. ... I pass now to the inquiry
whether these groups of criminal acts were
integrated in a common plan or conspiracy.

THE COMMON PLAN OR CONSPIRACY

The prosecution submits that these five
categories of premeditated crimes were not
separate and independent phenomena but
that all were committed pursuant to a com-
mon plan or conspiracy. ... The central
crime in this pattern of crime, the kingpin
which holds them all together, is the plot
for aggressive ‘war. The chief reason for
international cognizance of these crimes lies
in this fact. Have we established the plan
or conspiracy to make aggressive war? ~

Certain admitted or clearly proven facts
help answer that question. First is the fact
that such war of aggression did take place.
Second, it is admitted that from the moment
that Nazis came to power, everyone of them
and every one of the defendants worked
like beavers to prepare for some war. The
question therefore comes to this: Were
they preparing for the war which did occur,
or were they preparing for some war which
never has. happened? ...

But I submit that the defendants either
knew or are chargeable with knowledge
that the war for which they were making
ready would be a war of German aggression.
This is partly because there was no real
expectation that any power or combination
of powers would attack Germany. But it is
chiefly because the inherent nature of the
German plans was such that they were
certain sooner or later to meet resistance
and that they could then be accomplished
only by aggression.

The plans of Adolf Hitler for aggression
were just as secret as “Mein Kampf,” of

‘ ‘which over six million copies were published

in Germany. He not only openly advocated
overthrowing the Treaty of Versailles, but
made demands which went beyond a meré
rectification of its alleged injustices. He
avowed an intention to atiack neighboring
states and seize their lands, which he said
would have to be won with “the power of
a triumphant sword.” ... :
Immediately after the seizure of power
the Nazis went to work to implement these
aggressive intentions by preparing for war.
They first enlisted German industrialists in
a secret rearmament program.... Krupp
(von Bohlen of the great Krupp armament
works) later boasted of the success in keep-
ing the German war industries secretly alive
and in readiness despite the disarmament
clauses of the Versailles Treaty, and recalled
the industrialists’ enthusiastic acceptance of
“the great intentions of the Fuehrer in the
rearmament period of 1933—39”....

The. Nazis moved to harness industrial
labor to their aggressive plans. In April
1933 Hitler ordered Dr. Ley “to take over
the trade unions,” numbering some six mil-
lion members. By Party directive Ley seized
the unions, their property and their funds.
Union leaders, taken into “protective cus-
tody” by the SS and SA, were put into
concentration camps. The free labor unions
were then replaced by a Nazi organization
known as the German Labor Front....

ADAPTING GOVERNMENT TO WAR

The Nazis also proceeded at once to adapt
the government to the needs of war. In
April 1933 the Cabinet formed a Defense
Council.... In January 1934 ... the Council
planned a mobilization calendar and mobil-
ization order for some 240,000 industrial
plants:... On May 21, 1935, the top-secret
Reich Defense Law was enacted. Defendant
Schacht was appointed Plenipotentiary Gen-
eral for War Economy .. . Schacht’s secret
efforts were supplemented in October 1936
by the appointment of defendant Goering as
Commissioner of the Four-Year Plan, with
the duty of putting the entire economy in

--- Page 26 ---
a state of readiness for war within four
years.

A secret program for the accumulation of
the raw materials and foreign credits
necessary for extensive rearmament was also
set on foot immediately upon seizure of
power.... Foreign currency controls were
at once established....

The General Staff, of course, also had to
be enlisted in the war plans. Most of the
generals, attracted by the prospect of re-
building their armies, became willing ac-
complices.... Hitler assumed for himself
Supreme Command of the Armed Forces. ...
The generals did not confine their par-
ticipation to merely military matters. They
participated in all major diplomatic and
political maneuvers. ...

As early as November 5, 1937, the plan
to attack had begun to take definiteness as
to time and victim. In a meeting which in-
cluded defendants Raeder, Goering and von
Neurath, Hitler stated the cynical objective:
“The question for Germany is where the
greatest possible conquest could be made at
the lowest possible cost”.... The aim he
stated boldly and baldly as the acquisition of
additional living space in Europe, and rec-
ognized that “‘The German question can be
solved only by way of force”... . All along
the line preparations became more definite
for a war of expansion, on the assumption
that it would result in world-wide conflict. . .

ASSURANCES GIVEN WORLD

This Tribunal knows what categorical as-
surances were given to an alarmed world
after the Anschluss, after Munich, and after
the occupation of Bohemia and Moravia,
that German ambitions were realized and
that Hitler had “‘no further territorial dem-
ands to make in Europe.” The record of
this trial shows that those promises were
calculated deceptions and that those high in
the bloody brotherhood of Nazidom knew it.

The defendants Goering, Keitel, Raeder,
Frick and Funk, with others, met as the
Reich Defense Council in June of 1939. The
minutes, authenticated by Goering, are re-

vealing evidence of the way in which each
step of Nazi planning dovetailed with every
other. These five key defendants, three
months before the first panzer unit had knif-
ed into Poland, were laying plans for “em-
ployment of the population in wartime”. ...
It is the minutes . . . which disclose how the
plan to start the war was coupled with the
plan to wage the war through the use of
illegal sources of labor to maintain produc-
tion.... The use of prisoner-of-war labor as
here planned also grew with German needs.

The Geneva Convention would have been
thrown overboard openly except that Jodl
objected because he wanted the benefits of
Allied observance of it while it was not be-
ing allowed to hamper the Germans in any
way.

OTHER CRIMES PLANNED

Other crimes in the conduct of warfare
were planned with equal thoroughness as a
means of insuring the victory of German
arms. ... The Supreme Command circulated
a most secret-list of devious explanations to
be given by the Propaganda Minister in
such cases.... After the war was in progress
the orders increased in savagery. A typical
Keitel order, demanding the use of the “most
brutal means,” provided that “It is the duty
of the troops to use all means without re-
striction, even against women and children,
so long as it insures success”. . . . Raeder
ordered violations of the accepted rules of
warfare wherever necessary to gain strategic
successes. Doenitz urged his submarine
crews not to rescue survivors of torpedoed
enemy ships....

Thus, the war crimes against Allied forces
and the crimes against humanity committed
in occupied territories are incontestably part
of the program of making the war because,
in the German calculations, they were in-
dispensable to its hope of success. Similarly,
the whole group of pre-war crimes, includ-
ing the persecutions within Germany, fall
into place around the plan for aggressive
war...,

A glance over the dock will show that,

--- Page 27 ---
despite quarrels among themselves, each
defendant played a part which fitted in with
every other, and that all advanced the com-
mon plan. It contradicts experience that men
of such diverse backgrounds and talents
should so forward each other’s aims by
coincidence.

The large and varied role of Goering was
half militarist and half gangster. He stuck
a pudgy finger in every pie. .. . He was,
next to Hitler, the man who tied the activi-
ties of all the defendants together in a com-
mon effort. The parts played by the other
defendants, although less conprehensive and
less spectacular than that of the Reichs-
marshal, were neverthelness integral and
necessary contributions to the joint under-
taking, without any one of which the success
of the common enterprise would have been
in jeopardy. There are many specific deeds
of which these men have been proven guilty.

The activities of all these defendants, de-
spite their varied backgrounds and talents,
were joined with the efforts of other con-
spirators not now in the dock, who played
still other essential roles. They blend to-
gether into one consistent and militant pattern
animated by a common objective to reshape
the map of Europe by force of arms. Some
of these defendants were ardent members of
the Nazi. movement from its birth. Others,
less fanatical, joined the common enterprise
later, after successes had made participation
attractive by the promise of rewards... -

LACKED TECHNICAL COMPETENCE

It was the fatal weakness of the early Nazi
band that it lacked technical competence. It
‘ could not from among its own ranks make up
a government capable of carrying out all
the projects necessary to realize its aims.
Therein lies the special crime and betrayal
of men like Schacht and von Neurath, Speer
and von Papen, Raeder and Doenitz, Keitel
and Jodl. It is doubtful whether the Nazi
master plan could have succeeded without
their specialized intelligence which they so
willingly put at its command. They did so
with knowledge of its announced aims and

. 24

methods, and continued their services after
practice had confirmed the direction in which
they were tending. Their superiority to the
average run of Nazi mediocrity is not’ their
excuse. It is their condemnation.

The dominant fact which stands out from
all the thousands of pages of the record of
this trial is that the central crime of the
whole group of Nazi crimes — the attack
on the peace of the world — was clearly
and deliberately planned. The beginning of
these wars of aggression was not an un-
prepared and spontaneous springing to arms
by a population excited by some current in-
dignation. . .. These were the most carefully
plotted wars in all history. Scarcely a step
in their terrifying succession and progress
failed to move according to the master blue-
print or the subsidiary schedules and time-
tables until long after the crimes of aggres-
sion were consummated.

ALL CRIMES PART OF PLAN

Nor were the war crimes and the crimes
against humantiy unplanned, isolated or
spontaneous offenses. . . . Each part of the
plan fitted into every other. The slave labor
program meshed with the needs of industry
and agriculture, and these in turn synchro-
nized with the military machine. The elabor-
ate program apparatus geared with the pro-
gram to dominate the people and incite them
to a war their sons would have to fight. The
armament industries were fed by the con-
centration camps. The concentration camps
were fed by the Gestapo. The Gestapo was
fed by the spy system of the Nazi Party.
Nothing was permitted under the Nazi iron
tule that was not in accordance with the
program. Everything of consequence that
took place in this regimented society was
but a manifestation of a premeditated and
unfolding purpose to secure the Nazi State
a place in the sun by casting all others
in to darkness.

Common Defenses Against the Charge of
Common Responsibility:

The defendants meet this overwhelming
case, some by admitting a limited respon-

--- Page 28 ---
sibility, some by putting the blame on others,
and some by taking the position, in effect,
that while there have been enormous crimes
there are no criminals. .. . The Charter con-
cept of a common plan really represents the
conspiracy principle in an international con-
text... . The forms of this grand type of
conspiracy are amorphous, the means are
opportunistic, and neither can divert the law
from getting at the substance of things.

The defendants contend, however, that
there could be no conspiracy involving ag-
gressive war because (1) none of the Nazis
wanted war; (2) rearmament was only in-
tended to provide the strength to make Ger-
many’s voice heard in the family of nations;
and (3) the wars were not in fact aggressive
wars but were defensive against a “Bol-
shevik menace”... .

They wanted things which they knew they
could not get without war. They wanted
their neighbors” lands and goods. Their
philosophy seems to be that if the neighbors
would not acquiesce, then they are the ag-
gressors and are to blame for the war. The
fact is, however, that war never became ter-
rible to the Nazis until it came home to them,
until it exposed their deceptive assurances to
the German people... .

The defendants claim, “To be sure we
were building guns. But not to shoot. They
were only to have given us weight in ne-
gotiating.” At its best this argument amounts
to a contention that the military forces were
intended for blackmail, not for battle. . . .

ESTABLISHED FACTS IGNORED

Some of the defendants argue that the
wars were not aggressive and were only in-
tended to protect Germany against some
eventual danger from the “menace of Com-
munism,” which was something of an ob-
session with many Nazis. At the outset this
argument of self-defense falls because it
completely ignores this damning combination
of facts clearly established in the record:
First, the enormous and rapid German prep-
arations for war; second, the repeatedly
avowed intentions of the German leaders to
attack, ... and third, the fact that a series

of wars occurred in which German forces
struck the first blows, without warning,
across the borders of other nations.

Even if it could be shown — which it
cannot be — that the Russian war was really
defensive, such is demonstrably not the case
with those wars which preceded it. It may
also be pointed out that even those who
would have you believe that Germany was
menaced by Communism also compete .with
each other in describing their opposition to
the disastrous Russian venture. Is it reason-
able that they would have opposed that war
if it were undertaken in self-defense? .. .

NO FEAR OF ATTACK SHOWN

In all the documents which disclose the
planning and rationalizaiton of these attacks,
not one sentence has been or can be cited to
show a good-faith fear of attack. . . . Ger-
many faced a Europe that not only was un-
willing to attack, but was too weak and
pacifist even adequately to defend, and went
to the very verge of dishonor, if not beyond,
to buy its peace. The minutes we have shown
you of the Nazis’ secret conclaves identify
no potential attacker. They bristle with the
spirit of aggression and not of defense. They
contemplate always territorial expansion, not
the maintenance of territorial integrity. . . .

If these defendants may now plead self-
defense, although no good-faith need of self-
defense was asserted or contemplated by any
responsible leader at the time, it reduces non-
aggression treaties to a legal absurdity.
They become only additional instruments of
deception in the hands of the aggressor, and
traps for well-meaning nations. If there be
in non-aggression pacts an implied condition
that each nation may make a bona fide
judgment as to the necessity of self-defense
against imminent threatened attack, they cer-
tainly cannot be invoked to shelter those who
never made any such judgment at all... .

One of the chief reasons the defendants
say there was no conspiracy is the argument
that conspiracy was impossible with a dic-
tator. The argument runs that they all had
to obey Hitler’s orders, which had the force

--- Page 29 ---
of law in the German State, and hence obed-
ience cannot be made the basis of criminal
charge. In this way it is explained that while
there have been wholesale killings, there have
been no murderers,

This argument is an effort to evade Article
8 of the Charter, which provides that the
order of the government or of a superior
shall not free a defendant from responsibility
but can only be considered in mitigation.
This provision of the Charter corresponds
with the justice and with the realities of the
situation. . . . The contention that the ab-
solute power of Hitler precluded a con-
spiracy crumbles in face of the facts of rec-
ord. ‘The Fuehrerprinzip of absolutism was
itself a part of the common plan, as Goering
has pointed. out. The defendants may have
become slaves to a dictator, but he was their
dictator. To make him such was, as Goering
has testified, the object of the Nazi move-
ment from the beginning... .

ALL SHARE HITLER’S GUILT

What these men have overlooked is that
Adolf Hitler’s acts are their acts. It was
these men among millions of others, and it
was these men leading millions of others,
who built up Adolf Hitler and vested in his
psychopathic personality not only innumer-
able lesser decisions but the supreme issue of
war or peace. They intoxicated him with
power and adulation. They fed his hates
and aroused his fears. They put a loaded
gun in his eager hands. It was left to Hitler
to pull the trigger, and when he did they all
at that time approved. His guilt stands ad-
mitted, by some defendants reluctantly, by
some vindictively. But his guilt is the guilt
of the whole dock, and of every man it.

But it is urged that these defendants could
not be in agreement on a common plan or in
a conspiracy because they were fighting
among themselves or belonged to different
factions or cliques. Of course, it is not
necessary that men should agree on every-
thing in order to agree on enough things to
make them liable for a criminal conspiracy.
Unquestionably there were conspiracies with-

26

in the conspiracy, and intrigues and rivalries
and battles for power. . . . Nowhere do we
find an instance where any, one of the de-
fendants stood up against the rest and said,
“This is wrong and I will not go along with
it.” Wherever they differed, their differences
were as to method or disputes over juris-
diction, but always within the framework of
the common plan. .

All over Germany today, in every zone of
occupation, little men who carried out these
criminal policies under orders are being con-
victed and punished. It would present 4
vast and unforgiveable caricature of justice
if the men who planned these policies and
directed those little men should escape all

The defendants have been unanimous,
when pressed, in shifting the blame on other
men. ... The names they have repeatedly
picked are Hitler, Himmler, Heydrich, Goeb-
bels and Bormann. All of these are dead or
missing. . . . It was these dead whom these
living chose to be their partners in this great
conspiratorial brotherhood, and the crimes
that they did together they must pay for
one by one... .

RESPONSIBILITY OF DEFENDANTS

Hitler ordered every one else to fight to
the last and then retreated into death by his
own hand. But he left life as he lived it,
a deceiver; he left the official report that
he had died in battle. This was the man
whom these defendants exalted to a Fuehrer.
It was they’ who conspired to get him ab-
solute authority over all of Germany. And
in the end he and the system they created
for him brought the ruin of them all... .
For the defendants to put all blame on him
is neither manly nor true. We know that
even the head of a state has the same limits
to his senses and to the hours of his day as
do lesser men. He must rely on others to
be his eyes and ears as to most that goes on
in a great empire. Other legs must run his
errands; other hands must execute his plans.
On whom did Hitler rely for such things
more than upon these men in the dock? .. .

--- Page 30 ---
These men had access to Hitler, and could
control the information that reached him and
on which he must base his policy and his
orders. .. .

Credibility is one of the main issues of
this trial. Only those who have failed to
learn the bitter lessons of the last decade can
doubt that men who have always played on
the unsuspecting credulity of generous op-
ponents would not hestiate to do the same
now.

It is against such a background that these

defendants now ask this tribunal to say
that they are not guilty of planning, execu-
ting or conspiring to commit this long list of
crimes and wrongs. They stand before the
record of this trial as blood-stained Glou-
cester stood by the body of his slain king.
He begged of the widow, as they beg of you:
“Say I slew them not.” And the queen
replied, “Then say they were not dead. But
dead they are...” If you were to say of
these men that they are not guilty, it would
be as true to say there has been no war,
there are no slain, there has been no crime.

THESE ARE THE ACCUSED (Continued trom page 13)

since the Pharaohs of Egypt, produced des-
perately needed manpower by driving for-
eign peoples into the land of bondage on a
scale unknown even in the ancient. days of
tyranny in the kingdom of the Nile.

Jodl, betrayer of the traditions of his pro-
fession, led the Wehrmacht in violating its
own code of military honor in order to carry
out the barbarous aims of Nazi policy.

Von Papen, pious agent of an infidel re-
gime, held the stirrup while Hitler vaulted
into the saddle, lubricated the Austrian an-
nexation, and devoted his diplomatic cunning
to the service of Nazi objectives abroad.

Seyss-Inquart, spearhead of the Austrian
fifth-column, took over the government of
his own country only to make a present of
it to Hitler, and then, moving north, brought
terror and oppression to the Netherlands and
pillaged its economy for the benefit of the
German juggernaut.

Von Neurath, the old-school diplomat,
who cast the pearls of his experience before
Nazis, guided Nazi diplomacy in the early

years, soothed the fears of prospective vic-
tims, and as Reich Protector of Bohemia and
Moravia, strengthened the German position
for the coming attack on Poland.

Speer, as Minister of Armaments and War
Production, joined in planning and execut-
ing the program to dragoon prisoners of war
and foreign workers into German war in-
dustries, which waxed in output while the
laborers waned in starvation.

Fritsche, radio propagandachief, by manip-
ulation of the truth, goaded German public
opinion into frenzied support of the regime
and anesthetized the independent judgment
of the population so that they did without
question their master’s bidding.

And Bormann, who has not accepted our
invitation to this reunion, sat at the throttle
of the vast and powerful engine of the Party,
guiding it in the ruthless execution of Nazi
policies, from the scourging of the Christian
Church to the lynching of captive Allied air-
men.

ORIENTATION PROGRAM (Continued from page 8)

hands of a few individuals.

A conducted tour occupies the afternoon
portion of the course. This permits the mem-
bers of the group to see at first hand some
of the operations of the occupation agencies
about which they heard in the morning. At
the Allied Kommandantura building, they

27

see where the regulations and decisions for
governing the city of Berlin are made and
hear some of the officials explain particular
phases in city government. A similar visit
is made to the building of the Allied Control
Authority, the seat of joint action by the
occupying authorities of the four zones.

--- Page 31 ---
CENTRAL GERMAN AGENCIES (Continued from page 11)

Functions of equalization of conditions
resulting from the different zonal treat-
ment of land reform and land tenure, ‘the
continued planning for conservation, rec-
lamation and water administration - in
cooperation with other agencies. Agricul-
tural and Food Statistics Division would
supply all sections of the Ministry with
the necessary statistical information and
would be a depository for records.

5. Agricultural Information Services —
The press and radio functions;

6. Agricultural Institutions Division —
Functions of supervision of agriculture
schools and colleges,. the organization of
advisory services and. unification of
various farmers’ organizations;

7. Forestry and Fisheries — Functions
of forest policy, forest management,
forest finance, conservation, and fishing
and hunting regulations. The adminis-
tration of marine and inland fisheries
could be carried out as a special function
of this Department;

8. Food Administration Policy Division
— has three principal subdivisions:

(a) Production Department would pre-

pare production policies and programs,

plan for the production and ‘allocation
of agricultural requisites and supervise
the enforcement of farm collections.

(b) Marketing Department should. be

organized on a commodity basis incor-

porating former useful features of the
central marketing associations, planning
for the storage, transportation, proces-
sing and distribution of foodstuffs. The
following commodity sections are neces-
sary: (1) cereals and forage; (2) live-
stock and meats; (3) dairy products and
fats; (4) potatoes; (5) fruits and vege-
tables; (6) sugar and sugar products;

(7) fish; (8) vineyard and malt prod-

ucts.

(c) Rationing Section would work out

food balances on the basis of available

production and requirements. It would
fix ration scales and supervise the oper-

28

ation and enforcement of consumer
food rationing.

The Central German Agency is basically
concerned with making policy decisions, or
advising the Allied Control Council on policy
decisions. Such decisions will for the pres-
ent be binding on the Land governments,
except in the fields of functions which are
specifically reserved to the Laender.

Besides its policy-making functions, the
Central Agency will exercise primary exec-
utive and supervisory functions. In so far
as possible, food, agricultural and forestry
programs will be administered by the Laen-
der, subject to supervision of the Central
Agency.

CONSULTATION WITH LAENDER

The Central German Agency will consult
with representatives of the Laender Minis-
tries before making decisions which closely
affect the economics of the Laender. In
policy matters the Central Agency will deal
with the Land Ministers of Agriculture or
their counterpart in the Provinces, while
communications on routine, technical matters
can be made directly to the Land Food Of-
fices. The Land governments will be held
responsible for executing centrally issued
directives, and will set up adequate uniform
machinery and apply uniform procedures.

Top management positions consist of one
Secretary of State, nine division heads, and
three branch chiefs. All non-top manage-
ment positions and all personnel will be
appointed by the Secretary of State, but will
be subject to Allied Control Authority
approval. The total number will amount to
400 to 500 persons.

Basically Berlin is not a suitable head-
quarters for a Central Food and Agriculture
Office because of its geographical location.
It would be more suitable to have the Minis-
try in a medium-sized town which is less
damaged than Berlin. However, the location
of other central agencies will be the decisive
factor in the selection of a site for this
Ministry.