--- Page 2 ---


--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN-
opr MARBURG
LAUTERBACH,
OBER <
LAHNKREIS
FRIEDBERG
BOOINGEN

ee QBERTAUNUS
ep

ROTEN BURG

OFFENBACH

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

TAUBER BISCH —
OFSHEIM

jEI\DELBERG
BRUCHSAC
HEILBRONN
:
omen BACKNANG

BOBLINGEN Frases|

--- Page 4 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

INFORHATION

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S. ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

Writing the Position Description.

Control and Issue of Certificates of License and License Plates for US
Army Vehicles in the European Theater .

Travel Orders for German Civilians

Laundry, Dry Cleaning, and Related Services .

Theater Signal Communication Service.

Organization, Command and Administration of Military Communities
in Germany and Austria .

Travel in Reichspost Railway Mail Cars by Unauthorized Persons .
Top Secret Control Procedure .
Non-Appropriated Funds .
Safeguarding Official Seals and Facsimile Signature Stamps .
Individual Travel in the European Theater .

Identification .

Report of Military Personnel Classification Procedures.

Authorization for Return of Military Personnel and US War Department

Civilians and their Dependents by Commercial Transportation .

Control Council Law No. 35, "Conciliation and Arbitration Machinery
in Labor Conflicts” - Revision of MGR Title 15.

Statistical Form No. MG/PS/10/F Revised August 1946

Financing of Occupation Costs, Reichsbahn US Zone .

Reduction in Use of Packaged Gasoline. -

Disposal of L-4 Type Aircraft .

Warrants for Railway and Ferry Travel in Denmark .

Population Statistics for US Zone and US Sector Berlin

Disposition of Ex-PWs Appearing

in the American Zone. without
Discharge Certificate . 3

AG 230.418 GAP-AGE
20 July 1946, USFET

Circular No. 114
14 August 1946, USFET

Circular No. 116
22 August 1946, USFET

AG 331.3 GDS-AGO
23 August 1946, USFET

AG 311 GDS-AGO
23 August 1946, USFET

AG 322 GCT-AGO
23 August 1946, USFET

AG 311.1 PMG-AGO
23 August 1946, USFET

AG 371 GBI-AGO
24 August 1946, USFET

AG 130: GAP-AGO
27 August 1946, USFET

AG 371.2 GBI-AGO
27 August 1946, USFET

Circular No 120
28 August 1946, USFET

Circular No. 119
28 August 1946, USFET

AG 220.01 AGJ
28 August 1946, USFET

Circular No. 122
29 August 1946, USFET

AG 010.6 (MD)
29 August 1946, OMGUS

AG 315 (IA)
29 August 1946, OMGUS

AG 012.3 (FD)
30 August 1946, OMGUS

AG 463.7 RMJ-AGO
30 August 1946, USFET

AG 452.1 GDS-AGO
30 August 1946, USFET

AG 531 GDS-AGO
3 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 091.4 (CA)
3 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 383.6 (AD)
3 Sept 1946; OMGUS

(Continued on page 28)

--- Page 6 ---
GERMAN EDITOR — The picture on this
week's cover shows the political editor of
“Der Tagesspiegel," US-licensed Berlin news-
paper, going over press copy with one of his
reporters, These two men together with the
248 other staff members give. Germans in
Berlin complete, accurate, impartial coverage
of foreign and domestic news. Other pictures of
“Der Tagesspiegel” appear on pages 14-15.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Town Hall Meeting was prepared from a
report fo the Office of Military Government
for Bavaria and to OMGUS, and from a
franslation of a transcript which appeared in
the “Suedost Kurier,“ Bad Reichenhall, of the
proceedings of the inifial Town Hall meeting
there. é

Material for German-American Lecture
Group was furnished by Mrs. Muriel J. Wood
of the Education Branch, |. A. & C. Division,
OMGUS. Mrs. Wood who is a graduate of
Wellesley College served as a statistician with
the WAC in Africa and Haly before joining
Military Government.

Political Parties was taken from the Political
Activity supplement of the Monthly Report of
the Military Governor, No. 12.

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

"HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Town Hall Meeting
German-American Lecture Group
Political Parties

Central German Agencies: Part 7

Der Tagesspiegel
GENERAL
GERMAN REACTIONS
PRESS AND RADIO COMMENT

PAGE

1
14

16
22
25

--- Page 7 ---
Major Melvin Mawrence, Commanding Officer of the
Military Government detachment in Berchtesgaden,
addressing the Town Hall Meeting in Bad Reichenhall

re Hall Meetings, modeled on the dem-
ocratie public-discussion forums of
America, have been initiated in Landkreis
Berchtesgaden, Bavaria, in the first program
of this type to be undertaken in the US Zone
of Germany. Other than the initial approval
and sponsorship, the meetings are entirely
German.

The idea for establishing free discussions
and debates as a means for developing
mutual understanding and solutions to com-
mon problems was conceived by Major Mel-
vin Mawrence and Lt. George Bronfen, Mil-
itary Government officers at Berchtesgaden,
who desired to assist the German people to
think logically and to air their opinions
openly and in a friendly way in order to
solve their multifarious problems.

FIRST SESSION HELD IN JULY

The first session of these Town Hall
Meetings was held late in July in the Town
Hall at Bad Reichenhall with Landrat Dr.
Leopold Schmidt in the chair as moderator.
The two topics under discussion for the eve-
ning were “Youth Re-education” and ‘The
Refugee Problem.” The guest speakers were

the local leaders of the three principal polit-
ical parties, while questions and differing
views were presented by many members of
the audience during the discussion period.

NEWSPAPER REPORT OF MEETING
In its report of the meeting, the Suedost
Kurier of Bad Reichenhall said:

“This first public discussion evening was «'! '

a full success. The debates developed into
lively discussions. and manifested an active
interest in the urgent problems. under
question. The meeting proved itself a warmly
welcomed forum ; of . free. speech,..an- op-
portunity to compare different opinions and
points of view with the.aim.of utilizing the;
best and most practical ideas expressed to
formulate concrete proposals. -To all those
present this debating evening revealed itself
as an opportunity for earnest and sincere
cooperation, and lively expression was given.
to the desire to. meet again and more fre-
quently in like manner.’

After speaking of the contribution by the
sponsoring MG officers, the newspaper com-
mented: “What had “proved possible and °
successful in their home country — the intel-

--- Page 8 ---
lectual world — was adapted to German
conditions, and proved itself to be an ef-
fective means to discuss important questions
from various points of view, frankly and
openly, to clear up differences and misunder-
standings, and as a result, to find a common
way out of difficulties towards a solution to
pressing problems of the day.”

PURPOSE OF MEETINGS

Major Mawrence in outlining the purpose
of the gathering said “Town Hall Meetings
of this sort are not political gatherings, and
the only reason the three party leaders were
mvited is because they represent views of
various groups in the Landkreis community,
not in order to stress individual party aims.
Party politics and dissensions should be min-
imized here and cooperation and common
points of assent among all groups should be
accentuated. . .

“Each group in the Landkreis should
recognize and appreciate and consider his
neighbor’s viewpoint. There will never be
peace in the entire world as long as small
separate worlds exist within dividing walls
... Town Hall Meetings such as this today
are attempts to knock down such artificial
barriers between peoples of democratic free
speech... Let us not harbor biases or

intolerances . . . Voice your thoughts freely
here, but do not condemn your neighbor for
holding opinions different from yours.”

In a similar expression of hope for the
program, Lieutenant» Bronfen declared,
“There will be differences of opinion. No
one is absolutely right — and no one is
absolutely wrong. There is the good and the
bad on each side, but through the use of free
speech, mutual understanding can be reached.
People may express their opinions; you must,
hear them, though you need not agree with
them; but at least give’ them the chance to
say what is in their minds. The privilege of
free speech is one that has long been
cherished by democratic: countries all over
the world.”

COMMENTS OF MODERATOR

Landrat Schmidt, in taking over as the
moderator, pointed out, “In order to master
the future, we must not fight one against
the other; we must unite in our efforts among
ourselves and do all we can to draw nearer
to other peoples . . . Let us show unity and a
common spirit in the expression of our
opinions . . . Let us attempt to approach
closer to one another to become one people
and regain the respect of the world.”

The rules laid down by the moderator

Refugee Commissioner Sontheimer participating in the
open forum discussion at the Bad Reichenhall Town Meeting

--- Page 9 ---
allowed five minutes to each of the guest
speakers to explain his view of the topic
under discussion and then two minutes later
to question or answer statements raised by
the other speakers. Following this, persons
in the audience were given the opportunity
of expressing their opinions. The discussion
of any one subject was limited to one hour.
The moderator pointed out that the limita-
tions must be made “as an essential con-
tribution towards the success of the debate,
eliminating the danger of delivering endless
speeches and counterspeeches, demanding
discipline and a clear, terse and effective
presentation of ideas.”

“SCHOOL, YOUTH AND SPORT”

The first subject, “School, Youth and
Sport,” was typical of the discussions.

It was opened by the head of the Christian
Socialist Union, Town Councilor Rappold,
who pointed out, “During the war, school
life was often disturbed; this time of unrest
is now over. But it has not yet been possible
to reorganize our schools in the necessary
manner. Beginnings have been made but the
difficulties are still considerable. There is
still a great shortage of teachers. . . The
school for girls at Reichenhall was des-
troyed... The lack of instructional material
is very critical... The gymnasium is des-
troyed and the schoolyard has become a
woodstore.”

Councilor Rappold declared: “Youth can-
not be induced to interest themselves in
politics and to collaborate in the party’s
work. The reproach that only older men are
politically active is unfounded. We should
be glad to find younger men as followers.
All are still under the influence of the war.
We must have patience with youth and
gradually lead them on the ways of the dem-
ocratic state.”

Deputy Landrat Groll, head of the Social
Democratic Party, explained his party’s pro-
gram, demanding public schools as the gen-
eral rule, limiting private schools, but leaving
the choice of confessional schools and desire
for religious training to parents and older

youth. He added:

“The foremost aims of education should be
self-control, sense of responsibility, respect
for religion and human dignity, unselfishness,
sense of duty towards the common aims of
humanity and love of peace, formation of a
cosmopolitan European spirit for a Germany
in the sense of Goethe, Kant and Beethoven.

RECOMMENDATIONS MADE

“The school curriculum should include
lessons on civilian affairs, and popular high
school and evening courses should be estab-
lished. State scholarships for gifted sons of
workers should enable them to study .. -
Universities must have self-administration
with participation of the students. Vocational
schools are demanded to train highly quali-
fied workmen in order to promote German
trade and exports...

“Youth must be protected by state and
community against neglect ... We desire a
youth movement, but a neutral one without
military pressure. The SPD sympathizes
with the Boy Scout movement; it satisfies
the romantic cravings of youth, and can lead
again to exchanges of youth with other
countries. |We wish to build up German
sport with international youth meetings and
Olympic games.”

COMMUNIST LEADER SPEAKS

Communist Leader Valentiner asserted,
“Repetition of the war can only be prevented
if youth is made to understand that war is
not unavoidable, not heroism but a crime
against humanity. Teach them to love thetr
neighbors, of every nation, race or creed,
then they will hate war. In youth and
children lie both good and evil instincts.
Hitler’s primitive but effective methods
encouraged the latter. Disputing parties can-
not bring up peace-loving youth; we must
find ways in common and set an example to
youth. Youth should learn from us what we
are setting about to learn — unity in a com-
mon aim, respect for honest opinions and the
will to reconstruct.”

To start the discussion period, Mr. Valen-

(Continued on page 24)

--- Page 10 ---
better understanding of life in the Uni-
ted States is being afforded the Germans
through talks and discussions by American
| Personnel at informal German gatherings
throughout the US-occupied areas. The Ger-
man people have shown a genuine interest
"in America and a desire to correct the mis-
‘information and wrong impressions they
“have had of the distant homeland of the oc-
cupying forces.
As a step toward promoting better under-
~. standing of America among the Germans, Mil-
‘itary Government-is bringing together Amer-
icans and Germans to discuss their problems
informally, A program is being sponsored
by MG in the US Zone, Bremen Enclave and
Berlin to give American personnel the op-
portunity to speak before German groups
and inform them on various phases of Amer-
ican life. The idea is meeting with an in-
creasingly favorable response as it is in-
troduced in various cities and towns.

BEGINNING OF. PROGRAM

In Wiesbaden the program got under way
about two months ago when several Amer-
icans attended the English conversation clas-
ses in the Volkshochschule. The first evening
only seventy German students were present
to discuss the question of what the Amer-
ican thinks of the German people, but the fol-
lowing week the attendance nearly doubled.
Tt was then decided to divide the students
into two groups, one half speaking German
and the other half English, and by the end
of August it was further proposed that the

Germans ih eal ven should decide the quies- . :
tions to be discussed at the meetings: Among
the topics suggested were mtnentigg: and .
“War Guilt.” :
The program in Munich is also omaking |

“encouraging progress. American personnel

lecture to students of the University on a-

topic selected by the students, who after- «
wards may ask questions or launch a dis-
cussion on the subject. In Munich, as in’ ~
Wiesbaden, the interest shown by the stu-.

dents in these discussions is evidenced by a
large attendance.

Berlin’s program is divided into two parts,
the regular English class’ for Germans in
the Volkshochschule and the special orienta-
tion lectures which were begun a few months
ago. The orientation course was suggested
by the German civilian employees of OMG-
US to help them learn more about the US -
and its customs. At the first meeting it was
decided that each person should submit. in
writing the topics which he most wanted to

discuss. Those high on the list were: emigra- >

tion to America, music, politics, religion and
education.

LECTURE AND DISCUSSION

The Berlin orientation meetings, held once
a week, feature a short lecture by an Amer-
ican on a specific subject. A discussion period
follows in which the topic is opened to
questions from the group. The attendance
at each lecture has been more than one
hundred persons, and a keen interest has
been shown. Berlin is also urging American
personnel to attend the “American English”
class for Germans because it was found that
the majority of students are not familiar
with the American vernacular. Furthermore,
the books available are out of date and the
English taught by German teachers in the
Volkshochschulen is principally classical,
and not the everyday English which Ameri-
cans commonly use.

In Bremen an Allied Speakers Bureau has
been established for supplying speakers for
various German educational and _. social
organizations. The bureau had enlisted the.
services of fifteen Allied men and women:

(Continued on pane 24)

--- Page 11 ---
POLITICAL
PARTIES

Jakob ‘Kaiser, a leader of the Christian Democratic Union, addressing Signal Corps Photo

members of the CDU from the Soviet Zone at a recent party gathering

[i is often difficult to know the precise dif-
ferences which separate one German politi-
cal party from another. Generally speaking,
German political parties have not adopted
programmatic platforms which could be
taken as a hard and fast description of the
outlook of the party nationally. It is there-
fore useful to take stock of the declarations
of party conventions and of party leaders
and to formulate a description of current
platforms as nearly as those programs can
be ascertained.

In the case of the Liberal Democratic
Party on the right, it is difficult to identify
the principles for which the party stands.
Party organization has not progressed as far,
and party leaders have been less vocal and
less specific in their public utterances than

in the case of the other parties. As regards
the Christian Democratic Union, some con-
clusions concerning the party program can
be drawn from resolutions adopted at party
conventions and from the speeches of one or
two of the leaders of the party. The two
leftist parties, the Social Democratic Party
and the Communist Party, (the latter term is
used to include the Socialist Unity Party in
the Soviet Zone), have formulated very def-
inite party programs.

LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY

The Liberal Democratic Party is not one
party but many parties, differing in names
and outlook from place to place according
to its leadership. It had a “national” con-
vention, at Bad Pyrmont in May. No pro-

--- Page 12 ---
gram was adopted. In some places it is the
most igh tigtlipt ‘the four parties, while in
other places it moves perhaps slightly. to the
left of the CDU. Generally it has attracted
to itself urban business elements. ,

LDP party leaders ‘generally stress two
things: The sanctity of private property and
private enterprise, and complete separation
of church and state. In general they renounce
all socialiste plans, whether Marxist or
Christian, and they contend that religion has
no place in politics. :

CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION

The beliefs of the Christian Democratic
Union, known as the Christian Social Union
in Bavaria, have not yet crystallized into a
detailed platform. The party’s organization
varies from place to place according to the
ideas of local, Land or zonal leaders. The
party nearly everywhere is composed of left
and right wings, and in many places, as in
Bavaria and Greater Hesse, small groups of
moderates or compromisers hold the leader-
ship. No party platform has been adopted.
Perhaps the best source for any statement of
current party ideas is the programmatic
speech of Jakob Kaiser at the CDU con-
vention in Berlin in June. Kaiser is the
tacitly recognized national leader, though it
should be remembered that he has not as yet
obtained the cooperation of some western
CDU leaders such as Konrad Adenauer in
the Rhineland and Werner Hilpert in Greater
Hesse.

The CDU seems to advocate:

A firm Christian basis for politics as the
best means of rebuilding Germian life.

Cooperation of Protestants and Catholics
in one party in order to pool all Christian
efforts.

Elimination of direct political activity of
priests, pastors and church officials.

Christian socialism (undefined as yet) as
the only solution to economic chaos produced
by modern post-war conditions.
socialism is sharply rejected.

Absolute necessity of basing the state on
the inviolable rights of person and property

Marxian

(Rechtstaat)..

The right of private property, but social-
ization (with proper indemnity to the dis-
possessed) of concentrations of wealth which
politically endanger the majority welfare.
This includes. advocacy of moderate land
reform.

Economic decentralization.

A unified but federalized Germany.

Revision of Germany’s .present adminis-
trative boundaries onthe east in her favor.

Political retention of the Rhineland and
Ruhr in Germany, but possible international
economic control of the Ruhr.

Conception of Germany as a bridge be-
tween the Soviet Union and the Western
world.

A free but non-capitalistie press and radio.

Right to establish private schools.

Right to religious instruction in the schools.

SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY

The Social Democratic Party, which is. rec-
ognized in the US, British and French Zones
and throughout Berlin, functions fairly uni-
formly in all these areas under direction
from Hanover. Its president and guiding
spirit is Dr. Kurt Schumacher.

The SPD has not published a formal pro-
gram since the occupation, but the Hanover
convention in May 1946, at which all party
districts were represented, adopted a pro-
grammatic declaration and a series of resolu-
tions. From these statements and from the
speeches and actions of its leaders, the fol-
lowing summary can be made.

GUARANTEE OF CIVIL LIBERTY

Parliamentary republican democracy of
the Western type, with guarantees of full
civil liberties.

No combination or close cooperation with
the Communist Party or Socialist Unity
Party.

Separation of Church and State. Secular
education, with extra religious instruction
optional at the parents’ desire. No inter-
ference of the clergy with politics. It is
specifically against the clerical and conser-

--- Page 13 ---
vative politics of the Christian Democratic
Union.

Centralized German government, though
with concessions to Bavarian federalism.
Economic and political unity of Germany
under democratic control.

Political leadership of the working class,
with cooperation of socialist-minded intel-
lectuals, artisans, professional groups and
middle classes.

Recognition of an independent SPD in all
Zones of Germany.

Elimination of active Nazis and militarists
from all positions of public and private
leadership, and re-education of the people in
a democratic spirit. Reintegration of nominal
Nazis into community life.

SOCIALIZATION OF KEY INDUSTRIES

Socialization of key industries, i. e., all
mines, all.iron, steel and half-finished steel
mills, most chemical plants and all large
enterprises of other..industries. .......

Socialized industries to be run largely as
autonomous companies of many different
kinds under control of workers and techni-
cians, with a maximum of democratic man-
agement and economic flexibility and a mini-
mum of state bureaucracy.

Consumers and producers cooperatives to
run large portions of light industry and
distributive trades.

Breaking up of large estates into peasant
parcels and agricultural cooperatives.

Preservation of small business, though with
worker participation in the management
thereof (Mitbestimmungsrecht).

Publicly planned economy for the common
welfare, without reference to private profit.

Strong, unified, democratic trade unions to
bargain with all management, state and pri-
vate, over wages, hours and working con-
ditions and to ‘participate in economic plan-
ning, including production and distribution.

Financial and currency reform to remove
presently unequal sacrifices.

Retention and rapid revival in Germany of
sufficient consumer goods and export in-
dustries to maintain a standard of living and

10

pay for a level of imports comparable with
those of the Weimar Republic. It believes
that the Allied Control Council Level of In-
dustry Plan sets too low a level.

Abolition of zonal barriers, and restoration
at. an early date of Germany’s economic
sovereignty vis-a-vis the outside world.

INTERNATIONAL POLICIES

A viable, unified and peaceful socialist
Germany within an independent European
socialist federation.

Political retention of Germany’s present
Western boundaries, especially the Rhine-
land and the Ruhr, with a measure of Western
international control, including German par-
ticipation, over their socialized economy.

Readjustment toward the east of Ger-
many’s administrative boundary set by the
Potsdam Agreement.

No further cessions of German territory to
Denmark, Austria or any other country.

Strong orientation toward the Western
democracies and the Socialist Parties of the
former Second International.

For the maintenance of peace with all
nations, including the USSR, but against
Soviet domination of any part of Europe
side the Soviet boundaries.

Germany to remain demilitarized within
the framework of effective international or-
ganization.

For early release of anti-Nazi and non-
Nazi prisoners of war. If reparations labor
is needed, active Nazis as compulsory labor
and volunteers as free labor should be used.

COMMUNIST PARTY

The program of the Communist Party of
Germany, comprising the basis of the Social
Unity Party in the Soviet Zone, consists of
two sections: First, the so-called “minimum
program” of immediate objectives, and sec-
ond, the “maximum program’. of ultimate
objectives, Broadly speaking, the minimum
program is the winning of political power
in post-war Germany by the working classes
(represented by the KPD and the SED) while
the maximum program will be enacted sub-

(Continued on page 27)

--- Page 14 ---
he Central German Administrative De-

partment of Communications and Posts
will be responsible to the Allied Control
Authority for administrative control over the
German regional operating agencies known
as Directorates of Communications and Posts.
The Department is regulatory in its concept
but will exercise such centralized operational
functions as may be directed by the Allied
Control Authority.

Under the German Empire the Reichspost
was administered by a Reichspostministerium
in Berlin. It was headed by a Secretary of
State who reported to the Reichschancellor.
There were four main divisions and forty
Direktionen; its total staff was 330,000 per-
sons. The budget was incorporated into the
state budget by the Finance Minister and
was approved by the Reichstag. Bavaria and
‘Wuertitemberg were independent administra-
tions except for international traffic, which
was controlled from Berlin.

During the Weimar Republic the Reichs-

11

postministerium in Berlin was headed by a
minister who was responsible to the Reichs-
tag. It was reorganized into five main divi-
sions and forty-five Direktionen. It employed
350,000 persons and was authorized a sep-
arate budget. Six percent of receipts were

delivered to the state. An advisory board
was established which approved the budget,
tariffs, etc. The Finance Minister approved
the official roster of all commissioned civil
servants. Privileges and authorization of in-
dependent administrations in Bavaria and
‘Wuerttemberg were curtailed.

OPERATION DURING NAZI REGIME

During the Nazi Regime operation of the
Reichspostministerium in Berlin was con-
tinued. The Reichspost Minister was re-
sponsible to Hitler and became more auto-
cratic. The Minister of the Interior interceded
in regard to party membership and the Prop-
aganda Minister assumed control of radio
broadcast programming.

The Reichspost was reorganized into six

--- Page 15 ---
main divisions and forty-five to fifty-one
Direktionen. It employed 390,000 persons.
Postal saving service was extended to all of
Germany from Austria, The advisory board
was abolished and the Minister of Finance
had little or no control over the budget. Six
percent of the receipts were delivered to the
Reich and in addition a majority of the radio
receiver tax receipts were turned over to the
Propaganda Minister. All privileges and in-
dependent administrative authorizations were
withdrawn from Bavaria and .Wueritemberg.

" PROPOSED REORGANIZATION
It is now ‘proposed that the, Department
will assumé’ overall administration \of scom-
munications and postal services in Germany.
This will include implementation of approv-

ed policies, operating procedures and prac- .

tices; administration of uniform regulations
governing personnel; establishment of uni-
form rates, tariffs and fares; preparation of
operating and capital budgets; and the allo-
cation of communication and postal facilities
in accordance with approved -policy.... This
list of activities to be undertaken includes all
matters concerning the administration of the
communications and postal services, and no
related items are excluded.

UNDER CONTROL OF ACA

The Department will be under the direct
control of the Allied Control Authority i in all
its activities. Its immediate responsibility
will be to the Allied Communications and
Posts Committee of the Directorate of Intern-
al Affairs and Communications. The Allied
control will be exercised through the review
of all policy documents, orders and in-
structions. The Department shall be permit-
ted to issue only such orders or instructions
as are atuhorized by general or specific dir-
ectives of the Committee. On matters of
major importance the text shall be referred
to the Committee for approval prior ‘to
issuance, but’ instructions on minor matters
may be issued by the Department without
prior clearance.

At the head of the Department will be an
administrative officer who will deal with and

12

be responsible to the Alliéd Communications
and Posts Committee of the Directorate of
Internal Affairs and Communications, “Allied
Control Authority.

The Department will have four divisions:

1. Posts (Division I) — All postal matters
— operation of all authorized mail services
including transportation of mail by rail,
water and motor services; operation of postal
fiscal and banking systems, postcheque,
postal money order, postal travelers checks,
postal saving system; postal tariffs, operation
of international postal service, legal matters
pertaining to postal service; maintenance of
transportation vehicles.

2. Communications (Division II):— All
communication matters — technique, con-
struction, installation, operation and inspec-
tion of telephone and telegraph communi-
cation services, domestic and abroad; tech-
nique, construction, installation, operation and
inspection of radio and television services;
determination of rates and charges; partici-

-pation in World Communications Union;

communication laws and regulations; main-
tenance of services; procurement of material.

3. Organization and Personnel (Division
III) — All matters pertaining to organization
and personnel; legal matters and questions
regarding allocation of responsibility of the
Department of Communications and Posts;
personnel policy in regard to salaries, em-
ployment, promotion and pensioning, fur-
loughs, working hours, work standards and
subsistence.

4. Administration and Finance (Division
IV) — All matters pertaining to administra-
tion and finance; administration, budgeting,
finance and accounting; procurement (with
the exception of procurement for wire com-
munication service, Division II); construc-
tion; assistance in housing problems.

‘The details of the organization plan are to
be prepared by the Department head and
submitted to the Allied Committee for ap-
proval.

The Communications and Postal Services
will be operated by Directorates, which are
opérating field agencies, autonomous so far as

--- Page 16 ---
‘CENTRAL GERMAN ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT
COMMUNICATIONS & POSTS

their own operations are concerned but
under the general direction of the Depart-
ment and under such specific directions in
respect to operations as the Allied Control
Authority may determine. In other words,
the Department is not an operating group
but, on the other hand, the Directorates are
subject to its orders in respect to operations
to whatever degree is found necessary to
coordinate activities throughout Germany
and to establish an integrated operation for
the whole country.

INDEPENDENT OF LAND AGENCIES

The German communications and posts
organization will be entirely independent of
any Land governmental agencies. Director-
ates of Communications and Posts in the
US Zone are presently administered by a
Senior Directorate of Communications and
Posts under the supervision of the Laender-
rat. It is contemplated that the Central Ger-
man Department of Communications and
Posts will replace present zonal agencies and
that all Directorates for Communications and
Posts in Germany will be administered by it.

The administrative head of the Department
will have an assistant administrative officer
and four central administrators, one for each
of the divisions. The selection and removal
of these officials will be subject to Allied

13

Control Authority approval. The administra-
tive head of the Department will be respon-
sible for the selection of all other German
personnel in accordance with civil service
regulations. Estimated total employees at
end of the first year is 350.

Under present plans, headquarters shall be
established in Berlin, but any other center of
communications and government would be an
acceptable location. The Department will not
require field offices. The quarters required
for the central department will be of the
type normally used by a supervisory organi-
zation of this character. It is estimated that
10,000 square meters of usable space will be
needed. A former Reichspost building in
Berlin has been earmarked for this purpose.
No special technical equipment is required.

ESTIMATED OPERATING COSTS

A budget estimate should be prepared by
the head of the Department when he is ap-
pointed. It is estimated that operating
costs for the first year will approximate
RM 2,500,000 for personnel and RM 500,000
for material.

The expenses of the Department should be
financed out of budget authorizations from
a central fund. Operating revenues should
accrue to the central fund and not be ear-
marked for special use.

--- Page 17 ---
(Above left) One of the men
who work in the paper's
wire room reads a DANA
news dispatch as it comes
over the hellschreiber.

(Above center) A linotype
operator sefting up type.
(Above right) Two compos-
itors check the make-up of
the next morning's edition.

(Left) A group of rewrite
men in one of the paper's
ediforial offices.

(Right) Druckhaus Tempel-
hof, where Der Tages-
spiegel’s editorial offices
and printing plant are lo-
cated. Photos by PRO, OMGUS

--- Page 18 ---
fina operation of Der Tagesspiegel, US-licensed Berlin news-

paper, is illustrated in the pictures on these two pages.
Published every morning except Monday, Der Tagesspiegel has
the largest circulation of any newspaper licensed by US Military
Government. Berliners, anxious to get accurate, unbiased news.
buy up its 450,000 copies within a short time after each edition
reaches the newsstands. Surveys show Der Tagesspiegel is the
most popular newspaper in Berlin, but its circulation is limited
by the current scarcity of newsprint.

Der Tagesspiegel’s staff of 250 men and women gives its
readers. full coverage of foreign and domestic news. The work
of the paper’s own reporters is supplemented by the daily news
files of DANA, AP, UP, Reuters and DPD (British Zone German
news service). In addition a member of the staff monitors foreign
radio stations for indications and trends in world developments.

--- Page 19 ---
AGREEMENTS MADE FOR INTERZ

EXCHANGE OF GERMAN PUBLICATIONS

a circulation of German news-
papers, periodicals, books and other publi-
cations of the US Zone in the British and
French Zones has been provided in mutual
exchange agreements made by Military
Government authorities.

The Soviet authorities did not accept an
invitation to enter into a similar agreement,
and consequently under a new order the Ger-
man publications of the Soviet Zone are
barred from distribution in the US Zone.
This order does not effect intersector
distribution of German newspapers and
periodicals in Berlin.

The full text of the new order, known as
Information Control Regulation No. 3,
follows:

“Until further notice, no newspapers,
books, magazines, periodicals, pamphlets, or
other publications published in any other
zone of Germany may be _ introduced,
distributed, circulated, sold or displayed in
the US Zone of Germany unless an agreement
providing for free interzonal circulation has
been made and announced by the appropriate
Military Government authorities in the zone
of publication and in the US Zone.

“After announcement has been made of
the existence of an agreement between the
US Zone and any other zone of Germany for
free interzonal circulation, as provided in
paragraph 1 of this Regulation, newspapers,
books, magazines, periodicals, pamphlets,
and other publications properly authorized
for publication in such other zone may be
introduced, distributed, circulated, sold and
displayed in the US Zone.

“Any person violating any provision of
paragraphs 1 or 2 of this regulation shall be
liable, upon conviction by Military Govern-

16

ment Court, to punishment by imprisonment
for a term not exceeding one year or a fine
not exceeding RM 10,000 or by both such
fine and imprisonment.

“This regulation shall become effective on
1 September 1946. It shall be superseded by
any order of the Allied Control Authority
governing interzonal circulation of publica-
tions which is inconsistent herewith.”

An accompanying cable, dispatched to
Directors of Military Government in the
three Laender and the Bremen Enclave, said:

“Agreement on interzonal circulation of
newspapers, books, magazines, pamphlets
and other publications has now been reached
with British and French Zonal authorities.
Effective 16 September 1946, material prop-
erly authorized for publication in the
French and British Zones may be introduced
into, distributed, circulated, sold and dis-
played within the US Zone. No special per-
mission is required for such circulation,
which may take place by mail, railroad,
highway transportation and other normal
channels of distribution. Distributors in the
US Zone importing publications from the
French and British Zones will be responsible
for ascertaining that such materials have
been properly authorized for publication.

“Apparent violations of US information
control regulations contained in publications
introduced from the French and British
Zones should be reported to the Office of the
Director of Information Control, Office of
Military Government for Germany, U. S.,
Such material will not be confiscated unless
it constitutes a danger to military security.

“Until US-Soviet agreement on interzonal
circulation is reached the introduction, distri-
bution, circulation, selling or display of

--- Page 20 ---
newspapers, books, magazines, pamphlets
and other publications from the Soviet Zone
is prohibited. This applies to delivery by
mail and railways as well as by other chan-
nels of distribution. Stocks in excess of
single copies now in the hands of distributors
must be disposed of by 15 October, subject
to current directives on content of publica-
tions. This prohibition does not affect Berlin
where quadripartite agreement on free
circulation of publications between the four
sectors is already in effect.

“Orders should be issued to the proper
German authorities and all necessary steps
taken to insure compliance with this letter.”

The question of interzonal exchange of
German journalists was not included in the
regulation, as agreements are being worked
out separately from those covering the inter-
change of newspapers and other publications.

Law and Order for DP’s

Provisions for maintenance of law and
order among United Nations Displaced Per-
sons are given in a new USFET letter dir-
ective, (AG 383.7 GEC-AGO, 31 Aug 46),
which rescinds USFET letter (same file and
subject, 7 Mar 46). The new directive spe-
cifically concerns all Military Government
courts, public safety officers and other law
investigating and enforcement officers, in-
cluding all German police. In brief, the
directive covers:

The arming of assembly centers and the
emergency restrictions of the inhabitants
thereof.

“Check and Search Operations in United
Nations Displaced Assembly Centers” under
the provisions of USFET-SOP No. 81 (in-
cluding Change No. 1, dated Sept. 46).

Specific authorization for Military Gov-
ernment public safety officers and other law
enforcing and investigating personnel to
have free access to any and all assembly
centers in the pursuit of their routine as-
signed duties, such as investigation and arrest
of individual violators; this on their own
responsibility and without the necessity for

17

requesting prior authorization from higher
authority.

The establishment of Displaced Persons
detention centers.

Pre-trial detention.

The reporting, within 24 hours, of arrests
and the use and disposition of Arrest Report
Form MG/PS/G4.

The disposition of those convicted by
intermediate and general Military Govern-
ment courts.

The disposition of those applying for
voluntary repatriation when accused and/or
convicted of minor offenses.

The care and feeding of Displaced. Person
prisoners.

The necessary revision of MGR’s not in
accord with the new directive.

German Civil Service Status

Any German law relating to the Civil
Service Status of Governmental employees
or officals shall also apply to German civ-
ilians employed by US MG. Employment by
MG will be considered employment by a
German Governmental Agency except that
appointment, promotion, removal, discipline,
vacations, working conditions and pay will
remain under the control of MG.

Requisitioning of Buildings

Procedures under which German civil ad-
ministration officials may seek release from
US military requisitioning of homes and
buildings of public welfare institutions were
outlined to the Laenderrat at Stuttgart by
OMGUS, in answer to a formal Laenderrat
request that requisitioning of such buildings
be discontinued and that those already under
requisition be released because of the acute
shortage of public welfare facilities in the
zone.

Believing that the needs of the German
population for such installations should be
given full consideration, the OMGUS state-
ment said: “Land Military Government of-
fices are being instructed to review all

--- Page 21 ---
requests for the requisitioning of homes and
institutions of public welfare organizations
with particular care and to consider the
possibility of derequisitioning such install-
ations if already taken over by the occupation
forces.

“Where requisitioned real estate or resi-
dential property is no longer fully utilized
or when there is a need on the part of Ger-
mans for particular installations. German
officials may request Military Government
officers at the the Land and local levels to
review the case and to initiate action for the
derequisitioning of such property and instal-
lations.”

Surplus Army Books

Surplus US Army Information and Edu-
cation books have been distributed in all of
the Laender to help meet the great need for
text books in secondary and vocational
schools, teachers colleges and universities.
In Bavaria, a sufficient number of these
books has been made available to form a
nucleus of five reference libraries for UNRRA
students. Written in English, the texts
provide ready reference material on history,
English and American literature and science.
More than 45,000 surplus US Army Inform-
ation and Education text books have been
loaned to the Greater Hesse Ministry of
Education, and in Wuerttemberg-Baden, all
higher institutions, teacher training schools,
state libraries and education ministries, as
well as most secondary and vocational
schools, have received their allotments of
350,000 books.

Personnel Changes

Maj. Gen. Clarence R. Huebner, Chief of
Staff, USFET, has been appointed Deputy
Commanding General, USFET, in addition
io his other duties.

Col. Calvin L. Whitile, former Deputy
Chief of Operations and Chief of Movements
Branch, G-4, USFET, has been named Chief
of the Rail Branch (Rear), Transport Div-
ision, OMGUS.

18

Major J. C. Cook has been named Chief
of the Berlin Echelon of the Movements and
Traffic Branch, Transport Division, OMG-
US. Formerly he was Deputy Chief of the
Movements Branch in Frankfurt.

Other assignments announced at USFET
include: Col. John G. Hill as Assistant to
Chief of Staff; Col. Louis W. Prentice as
Acting Theater Chief of Engineers; Lt. Col.
George Seleno as Theater Recruiting Officer.

The US State Department has announced
the assignment of Leroy F. Percival to
Bremen as Vice Consul.

French Accept Gift Parcels

French Military Government officials have
agreed to accept gift relief parcels from the
United States for German civilians residing
in the French Zone of Occupation under the
same restrictions and limitations as presently
apply in the American and British Zones of
Occupation. These parcels are shipped from
the US via one-way parcel post (not to be
confused with CARE parcels) with a limit
in weight of 5 kilograms and size of 180 cen-
timeters, length and girth combined, and
contents are restricted to non-perishable food
stuffs, clothing, soap, lawful medical sup-
plies and uther items for relief purposes.

CARITAS Program

The CARITAS Verband, the official relief
agency of the Roman Catholic Church in
Germany, has not been suspended by Mil-
itary Government, nor is such suspension
contemplaied, USFET headquarters announ-
ced. The CARITAS Verband has been
approved by Military Government and is in
operation in all parts of US-occupied Ger-
many, but the Swiss CARITAS Zenirale,
which is a Catholic Relief Organization, has
been importing relief packages for individu-
ally named persons without authorization
from Military Government, as required in
official Military Government regulations.

The arrival of unauthorized shipments of
individual packages at Frankfurt and Berlin

--- Page 22 ---
was learned recently and conferences were
held with officials of the Swiss CARITAS,
who had arrived in Frankfurt, and with
officials of the CARITAS Verband in Berlin.
The packages are being held pending further
conferences which have already been
arranged.

PW Relief Fund

German Prisoners of War who were in
the United States have contributed laige
sums of money towards Prisoners of War
Relief in other countries, as well as relief
for the civilian population in Germany.
When they left the United States they were
not allowed to bring this money with them,
but some PWs established dollar credits for
themselves in the United States. Two snil-
lion dollars have been given for rvlief
purposes.

The money thus supplied by German
Prisoners of War is being administered by
the International Red Cross, and food and
medical supplies are being bought in various
countries and shipped to Germany for
distribution.

Displaced Persons Policy

Policies have been established in the US
Zone of Germany which encompass all
phases of the expellee and refugee programs
and which place the burden of responsibility
and implementation of these policies on the
German Land authorities. When negotations
concerning refugees and expellees involve
one of the other occupied zones or another
nation, Military Government must continue
to act for the US Zone.

German authorities under supervision of
Military Government, are responsible for
the care and control of enemy and ex-enemy
Displaced Persons, but the actual repatriation
is a responsibility of the tactical military
authorities. This situation requires that
Military Government, rather than German
authorities, establish the policies and broad
operational procedures, and finally, the
coordination necessary to effect the repatria-
tion of such persons.

19

Prohibited Plant Material

Prohibitions against sending through the
mail to the United States certain packing
materials which may contain plant diseases
have been emphasized by a recent USFET
directive. These materials have been. arriv-
ing in the United States through the mail,
thus creating a hazard that these diseases,
if given a start, might cause cerious crop
damage in America.

Prohibited plant material which ET per-
sonnel have been using to pack boxes include
rice straw, forest litter and unprocessed
cotton. Before mailing packages to the
United States, the sender should contact his
postal officer for instructions concerning
what material cannot be sent.

Transfer of Swabians

The transfer of Swabians from Hungary
to the US Zone of Germany was resumed on
1 September after having been temporarily
suspended since 29 June because of the lack
of facilities to care for the transferees. An
agreement between Hungarian and US Mili-
tary Government authorities was reached
whereby Swabians will be transferred as
family units and be supplied with adequate
clothing, eating utensils, and bedding before
they leave Hungary.

It is planned that the 90,000 Swabians
to be transferred from Hungary, will be ac-
cepted into the US Zone at a rate of about
20,000 per month until the conditions of
their resettlement or weather in Germany
compel a suspension. Forwarding adresses
of the transferees are beint kept by Hun-
garian authorities in order to aid relatives
in search of expelled families or individuals.

Fuel Problem Cited

The German population of the Land North
Rhine-Westphalia will be without fuel this
winter unless the German Civil Administra-
tion recruits sufficient volunteers to carry
out an extensive wood cutting program. It
was announced that an allowance of coal to

--- Page 23 ---
the ordinary consumer in the British Zone
was extremely remote and that the German
population would, be entirely dependent on
fuel wood for domestic heating and cooking.

The German Administration is considering
the conscription of persons who are regis-
tered but not fully employed, while the
British authorities offer every assistance in
the provision of transport and additional
labour to insure proper distribution.

Reparations Shipment

The first 80 tons of machinery and equip-
ment to be shipped to one of the Western
Nations by allocation of the Inter-Allied
Reparations Agency at Brussels, recently left
the Fritz Mueller plant in Oberesslingen
for Great Britain. Metal planing and
machining devices, some of them almost new,
made up the shipment.

The Mueller firm is one of the oldest
manufacturers of hydraulic presses in Ger-
many, and when completely dismantled will
be divided between Great Britain and
Czechoslovakia.

Unauthorized Weapons

All weapons not authorized by competent
authority to be kept in the individual’s per-
sonal possession will be placed in unit or
other similar storerooms and properly se-
cured. USFET has ordered that a careful
check will be made of all weapons currently
stored in unit or similar storerooms and that
all non-organizational weapons notauthorized
by competent authority for retention and re-
turn to the US will be turned in to ordnance
for disposition.

Escaped PWs

The French authorities have requested the
assistance of the United States authorities
in apprehending and returning a number of
escaped PWs to the French Zone of Austria.
USFET has directed that a list of these men
be disseminated to all Military Government
Detachments with instructions that local

20

Burgomasters will turn these individuals in
when they attempt to register for ration
cards. All individuals located will be handed
over to the nearest prisoner of war installa-
tion with instructions to return them to the
French Zone of Austria.

Orthodox Bishop Appointed

A Russian Orthodox Bishop for Greater
Hesse, Archbishop Pilotheus, has been
appointed by the Metropolitan of Berlin and
Germany. In his new position, Archbishop
Pilotheus is the spiritual head of an estimat-
ed 5,000 persons, meeting in from 15 to 20
centers throughout the Diocese of Greater
Hesse. In addition, he will exercise admin-
istrative control over the religions affairs of
an undisclosed smaller number of Greek
Orthodox members throughout the Land
from his Wiesbaden headquarters.

Civilian Employment

Future civilian personnel employment in
Military Government will be restricted to
US citizens, and indigenous _ civilians
recruited in the area designated as their per-
manent duty station. In exceptional cases
German consultants, technical advisors or
experts may be accepted.

Foreign nationals, including allied nation-
als, will not be employed in any position in
Military Government, but those who are
now employed may continue in their jobs
until the termination of their contracts.

Property Seizure

Persons who were citizens on or after
1 September 1939 and who at any time
have lived abroad and aided Germany or
her allies during the war are now added to
the category of persons whose property can
be seized by MG, as provided in Article 4 of
Control Council Law No. 5. This action
does not apply, however, to countries annex-
ed by Germany since 31 December 1937, it
was announced by the German External
Commission of the Allied Control Authority.

--- Page 24 ---
US ZONE NEWS BRIEFS

Military Government for Bremen (US) has
assumed control of naval port operations in
Bremerhaven-Wesermuende with the excep-
tion of the Harbor Fire Service, which will
be relinquished to MG after retraining of
new personnel by 1 November.

Der Tagesspiegel, US-licensed newspaper
in Berlin, has added to its masthead a state-
ment: “Independent and uncensored daily
newspaper. Published under License No. 16
of OMG BD,” to indicate to its readers that
it is not subject to pre-publication censor-
ship. No US-licensed newspaper is subject
to such censorship.

BLOCKED PROPERTY

Procedure was instituted for supplying in-
formation concerning blocked property of
United Nations nationals in response to re-
quests channeled through British MG author-
ities. Property owners may in no case re-
ceive such information directly from banks
on account of international and interzonal
postal regulations against German commu-
nications containing commercial transactional
mattor.

In the first six months of the current year,
the soap distributed in the US Zone has con-
tained only about half the planned 25 grams
of fatty acid per person per month. MG has
approved reactivation of plants that manu-
facture synthetic fatty acids.

INTEREST PAYMENTS WAIVED

The Soviet Union and the United States
have agreed to follow the British in waiving
their interest payments on the RM 82,000,000
deposit balance placed in the Berliner Stadt-
kontor jointly by the three powers at the
beginning of occupation. The deposit was
originally made to enable the Stadtkontor to
begin its operations.

Fifteen ammunition dumps have been turn-
ed over to Land economics ministers for the

21

chemical salvage program. Labor is being
recruited for the program.

Steps being taken in Wuerttemberg-Baden
to eradicate black market operations include
the establishment of a special section in the
Stuttgart Criminal Police Department to
make continuous raids on suspected black
markets. Raids on two locations resulted in
the arrest of 600 persons.

CAUSES OF ABSENTEEISM

Investigations has been made of absentee-
ism from railroad repair shops, which in one
instance reached 31 percent in the last week
in August. Causes were found to be chiefly
harvesting of crops, illness and lack of shoes
and work clothing.

Collection of fuel wood for space heating
during the coming winter is 50 percent com-
plete in Wuerttemberg-Baden and 30 per-
cent complete in Bavaria. The program has
only started in Greater Hesse.

Steel has been released to Military Gov-
ernment for reconstruction of the Autobahn
bridges between Stuttgart and Karlsruhe.

Two thousand pairs of shoes were distrib-
uted in August to foresters in Bavaria.

INDUSTRIAL CAPACITY INSPECTED

Twelve quadripartite commissions, each
consisting of about twelve members, are in-
specting the industrial capacity in all four
zones to insure that the reparations plan is
being carried out and agreed capacity is be-
ing retained in each industry for minimum
German economy.

The costs incidental to USFET Head-
quarters in Frankfurt are to be included in
the Land budget of Greater Hesse. Pre-
viously these costs, which amounted to RM
71,900,000 through 5 August, had been cov-
ered by overdraft at the Frankfurt Reichs-
bank. This overdraft as well as future pay-
ments will be paid out of Land funds.

--- Page 25 ---
VIEW BYRNES’ STUTTGART SPEE

TA Stuttgart speech by Secretary of State
Byrnes received the largest coverage in
the history of the US Zone licensed press.
For the first time, 26 papers sent their own
correspondents to cover the event. With few
exceptions, the papers carried the full text
of the speech, color background articles, bio-
graphical sketches and pictures of Mr.
Byrnes.

In an editorial entitled “The Liberating
Way,” the Weser Kurier (Bremen) termed
the speech as signifying the establishment of
a clearly outlined program. “The living con-
ditions of the German people make it under-
standable that they would not hope for too
much from a speech even one from the mouth
of Foreign Minister Byrnes, because in a
year and a half since the cessation of hostil-
ities: they have heard many speeches and
found only a measure of deeds beneficial. But
the Stuttgart speech is more than a speech.
It signifies the establishment of a clearly out-
lined program lost in vagueness on not a
single point. From the mouth of the Foreign
Minister of one of the greatest and mightiest
nations on earth, it is a deed,” the editorial
observes.

Rhein-Neckar-Zeitung (Heidelberg): “For
us Germans ... this visit is an historic
event. Out of the words of this man spoke
the calm and strength of a mighty people
which has developed for itself through work,
diligence and wealth five concepts of freedom
and peace. The sons of this nation now dis-
pose of our broken existence and they see
in this work the task of helping not only us,
but the world, which must be rebuilt on
firmer ground. What the speech proclaimed
in detail gives us — one and a half years
after our unprecedented Hitler defeat —

22

every reason to pause in reverence and con-
fidence. The speech gives us hope for new
life.”

Stuttgarter Zeitung: “What makes the
speech so extraordinarily important for us
and what makes it a top rank document is
the statement that the time has come to
transfer to Germany the main responsibility
for her affairs and to reveal essential peace
conditions to her people without any delay.”

Wiesbadener Kurier: “The Secretary of
State touched on all internal German prob-
lems with the masterhand of a diplomatic
orator. His declarations to keep the Ruhr
and Rhineland a part of Germany may be
regarded as the nation’s salvation.” ‘

Sueddeutsche Zeitung (Munich): “These
were the words of a victor. Could they have
been more reasonable? They were not in-
spired by the spirit of hatred. There could
easily have been statements on collective
guilt. They were not stated. Only the
simple statement was given that Hitler and
the men around him had tortured an innocent
people and had tried to dominate and humil-
iate the world by force. It would have been
possible to speak of punishment, but it was
not done.”

* * *

Three Berlin organs, all western control-
led, carried the full text of Byrnes’s speech.
These were the US licensed Tagesspiegel and
the British licensed Telegraf and Socialdemo-
erat. The French licensed evening paper,
Kurier, ran press comments on the speech,
heading them with a banner line reading:
“Byrnes’ Speech Everywhere Strongly Re-
garded.”

In its editorial on the speech the US licen-
sed Tagesspiegel first pointed out the im-

--- Page 26 ---
portance of the German problem hidden be-
hind the Paris conference, observing that the
longer a settling of the German question is
postponed the more the settlement of other
European problems is delayed.

“Tt is high time to close the meeting halls
and end, by agreement of those powers which
hold the fate of mankind, this grotesque sit-
vation...” the paper declared. “This is
the great sense of the German trip of the
American Secretary of State Byrnes.”

“For the Allies, Germany is the real plat-
form for the settling of world peace. In case
they succeed in agreeing on the solution of
the German problem they will have won the
peace, if they don’t they will have lost it.
And in this critical stage Secretary Byrnes
delivered his speech... and in a place
where the decision will be made — not in
Paris, but in Germany.”

“The words which came over from Stutt-
gart, were the clearest ever heard. For the
first time an allied stateman presented a com-
prehensive solution for the German question

For the first time he submitted a de-
tailed plan. He did not annul the Potsdam
decisions but rather re-instated them accord-
ing to the sense by which they had been
adopted.”

The British licensed Telegraf, observed
that the speech expresses openly the idea
that the eastern frontiers’ fate has not yet
been decided and considerable parts of the
East must be returned to Germany.

“By this speech, Germany has been placed
on the agenda of world politics. Byrnes’
words are too clear to allow one to drop
them without coming to a decision, the Tele-
graf declares.

“The Germans will value his speech as
they start on a new hopeful life. Undoubtedly
Byrnes’ profound words also express the
feelings of far circles of the American people.
One can hope that soon at least Great Britain
and France will express their agreement with
the principles laid down in Byrnes’ speech.”

Kurier, French licensed paper, noted that
now the Soviet Union and America have laid
down their principles, pointing out that in

many aspects Byrnes exceeded what had been
known under the Byrnes Plan. “Thereby the
American Secretary of State boldly took the
initiative to develop further discussion where
Molotov ended,” states its editorial.

Continuing, the paper listed the important
points of Byrnes’ speech and then compared
these with Molotov’s statements. “When
comparing Byrnes’ proposals with Molotov’s
one realizes a good deal of harmony between
the two,” contended the paper, observing that
both point up the thought of having no spirit
of revenge, both stating that Germany should
not be destroyed but should be developed into
a peace-loving and democratic state with its
own industry and foreign trade.

“Byrnes has completed Molotov’s demand
for the setting up of a German government
by a precise economic program,” declared the

: paper.

All Soviet controlled organs carried a
report of the speech in the form of an SNB
dispatch. The only one to give front page
treatment to the \dispatch was the Berliner
Zeitung, Soviet licensed morning paper.

Preferences of Youth

Technical inventions and sports programs
are preferred on the radio by German youth,
according to a sampling of opinion taken by
Radio Frankfurt officials among a group of
children between the ages of 13 and 16.

More than 50 percent of those interviewed
wanted to hear more about modern inventions
such as radar, radio improvements and new
developments in the field of aviation, while
also displaying a marked interest in swim-
ming, field sports and orthopedic exercises.

Pure entertainment — mystery stories,
humorous sketches and music — attracted
20 percent of the votes. On the other hand,
only ten percent requested more informative
programs on politics, forms of government
throughout the world and ethnic attitudes.
One boy, in casting his vote for political pro-
grams, underlined the words “without prop-

»
aganda. ;

--- Page 27 ---
TOWN HALL MEETING (Continued from page 6)

tiner, commented on the SPD’s support of
the Boy Scout movement, saying, “We
harbor great scepticism toward this. The
campfire romanticism is too closely connected
with what lies behind us, it reminds us too
much of the militarism of the Hitler period.”
To this, Mr. Groll replied, “We reject the
intention of any such connections and only
appeal to the romantic feelings of youth; that
was omitted under the Weimar Republic.”

A member of the audience raised the point:
“All the speakers were in accord in saying
that youth has been deprived of its ideals.
I ask the speakers for positive statements as
to what ideals they desire to give to youth.”
Another in the audience said, “Youth will
not yet dedicate itself to politics.” In reply,
Mr. Rappold asserted, “Youth is still lacking
in ideals, in readiness and pleasure in work,
it has not yet the right spirit. To gain
equality of rights for Germany, youth must
be prepared to take a hand in the reconstruc-
tion of a democratic state, to do unselfish
work for the common good.” Mr. Valentiner
said, “It is necessary to prepare the ground
on which to plant ideals by united work;
youth must not be divided up by political
barriers.”

Among those participating in the dis-
cussion from the floor was Josef Felder,
newspaper publisher, who declared: “It is
absolutely necessary to answer the question:
What can be done immediately in spite of
this state of emergency? Perhaps not very
much can be done. But what was said must
be given a foundation by concrete pro-
posals.” He went on to say, “It must be said
to the parties that we can only win the young
if the process of democratization is taken
much more seriously by the parties themselves
than has been the case up to the present and
than was the case before 1933... As long
as many party leaders — similar to many
fathers — adopt a dictatorial attitude toward
the young, instead of bringing them up to be
their friends, there will be no solution for
the political problem of the young.”

The Suedost Kurier summed up the first
meeting in these words: “What the war
destroyed in our homes and in our hearts is
to be built anew. The misery and sorrow it
brought to our hills and dales are to be
overcome by our common efforts. That we
Germans do not stand alone in this gives us
hope and courage. With us and for us think
and feel and care the leading personalities
of the American Military Government.”

———$$

LECTURE GROUP (Continued from page 7)

who are willing to give lectures and informal
talks on various phases of American life.

During the summer, Heilbronn’s recrea-
tional astivities included lectures by Ameri-
cans. In addition, the Volkshochschule served
as the meeting place for regularly scheduled

classes of instruction with Americans lead-'

ing discussions. The attendance at these
activities ranged between 1,000 and 3,000
Germans.

Stutigart’s program was recently inaugu-
rated along lines of the programs of the other
cities. In Frankfurt 35 WACs voluntecred to

24

participate in discussion groups, sports and
in English classes.

By participating in these classes troughout
the US occupied areas, Americans are teach-
ing students the correct forms of spoken
English, besides lecturing to them on life in
America. The orientation program is still in
its infancy, but it is hoped that more Ameri-
cans will become interested in the work to
assure its further development. The German
people have shown great interest in America.
But it is also necessary for Americans to take
an active part so that the Germans can learn
first-hand from us.

--- Page 28 ---
M™ United States newspapers placed
emphasis on the US invitation, as con-
tained in Secretary of State Byrnes’ Stutt-
gart address, to proceed with treating Ger-
many as an economic unit. The editorials
for the most part agreed that fruition of this
policy — in accord with the Potsdam
Agreement — is essential to promote
European recovery and to make Germany
self-supporting.

The press comment also showed support
of other objectives outlined by Mr. Byrnes.
A number of papers concluded, like the
Pittburgh Post-Gazette, that the speech “was
a forth-right exposition of US policy and
for the most part will be approved at home.”

Typical comment on phases dealing with
economic aims included:

Louisville Courier-Journal: Mr. Byrnes
“promised the Germans something less than
Utopia. But he put his fingers squarely
upon ‘ihe needless aggrevation of economic
distress that is caused by the failure of the
Allied Control Council to agree to give the
German people a chance to solve some of
their most urgent economic problems.’ In
other words it is not the United States which
delays this prospect.”

Miami (Fla.) Herald: “Certainly the Ger-
man people must bear their share of the
hardships with which Nazi agression has
cursed Europe. But common sense dictates
agreement with Byrnes’ position that ‘Ger-
many must be given a chance to export
goods in order to import enough to make her
economy self-sustaining.’..... The peace
should forever provide for the prevention of
German industry being subverted to war.
Nevertheless, disarming Germany is some-
thing wholly apart from putting it on a seif-

US EDITORS SUPPORT OBJECTIVE
OUTLINED BY BYRNES AT STUTTGA

25

T

sustaining basis.... a sick, pauperized,
industry-stripped Germany means a sick and
foredoomed Europe.”

Pittburgh Post-Gazette: The American
government is most anxious that Russia and
France will join Britain and the United
State in lowering economic barriers. Since
persuasion has been ineffective thus far,
Mr. Byrnes was reminding the Russians in
particular of measures we may be forced to
take, not in retaliation, but to curtail our
own burdens unless the Potsdam Agreements
are implemented.”

Chicago Sun: Commenting on the start of
unified economic administration in the U.S.
and British Zones, which the paper. called
“an economic necessity,” “Byrnes made it
clear again that the door is open for others
any time they are willing to join.”

A number of editorials voiced the hope
that the French and Russians would join
the United States and Britain in an integra-
ted program, but in case of their refusal,
said the Des Moines (Iowa) Register: “We
shall simply have to make the best of it....
in any case, we have at least a concrete
program, and we are beginning to act
upon it.”

Cleveland Plain-Dealer: The US economic
policy “has as its objective reconstruction
and rehabilitation which will ease the
burdens of military occupation and make it
possible once more for the German people
to establish and maintain for themselves a
fair standard of living. It goes without
saying that proper measures will be taken to
prevent rearmament and a repetition of the
events which preceded the second world
war.”

St. Louis Globe-Democrat: “It was not

--- Page 29 ---
in a mood of forgive-and-forget that Secre-
tary Byrnes addressed his words..,. he re-
minded the Germans they must pay the price
of their militarism in reparations, in work,
in- struggle; and indefinite military super-
vision bythe’ Allies. But he stated it as
America’s policy that they should be per-
mitted self-government, direction of their
own peacetime economy land retention of
their nation as a unit....”

Baltimore Sun: “The objective (of the
central administrative system being tried out
now in US — British Zones) is a freer
exchange of commodities and a general
economic treatment of the country as a
whole. If the other powers should agree,
much would be achieved without political
significance. This is recognized by Mr.
Byrnes in his advocacy of formation of a pro-
visional government in the form of a German
National Council (to be charged with pre-
paring the draft of a federal constitution for
Germany) ....”

Several papers believed that economic
union in two zones would be “an imperfect
effort” unless the Soviets and French join
in the program. St. Louis Star-Times said
“The Russians still control the bread-basket
of Germany” and France “must be persuad-
ed to relinquish its demands for awhile if
the merged British and US Zones are to be
taken off the dole.”

Approval of UN Applicants

The UN Security Council’s action
voting favorably on three of eight applicants
for United Nations membership was criticiz-
ed by US newspaper editorials as a setback
to hopes for universality of UN membership.
Editorials regretted that the US proposal for
approval of all eight applicants was not
adopted, and assailed the Soviet’s attitude
in opposing the applications of Portugal and
Eire.

Sweden, Iceland and Afghanistan were
approved. Albania and Outer Mongolia,
backed by the Soviet, did not get the required
majority and the Soviet vetoed Trans-

in

26

Jordan, Portugal and Eire.

The Washington Post said in part: “There
is nothing else to conclude from the (Se-
curity Council’s) session than that the prin-
ciple of universality of membership has gone
by the boards. The test for admission now
is not whether a nation is sovereign or
peace-loving in its own right, but whether
it has had the foresight to establish diplomat-
ic relations with the Kremlin ....

“Russia may have had a legitimate reason
for questioning the indepenednce of Trans-
Jordan, just as we were suspicious of Outer
Mongolia and Albania, but this certainly did
not enter into the applications of Eire and
Portugal. They are long established nations
with long established governments. Their
exclusion from the international organization
clearly thwarts the principles of the UN and
is a loss to the community of nations.”

Chicago Sun: “Universality of member-
ship is an essential goal for the United Na-
tions. Until it is attained, the organization
cannot speak for all mankind....

“Yet — although a line needs to be drawn
against the states whose continued regimes
were Axis allies and enemies of the United
Nations — the greatest latitude should be
followed in admitting other members. Ac-
cordingly, the American proposal to the
Security Council for blanket admission of all
eight applicants was absolutely sound....

“The principal objection to certain of
applicants is, of course, that they are
satellites of great powers and not genuinely
free agents... but would any of them be
less free if a member of the United Nations?

New Orleans Times-Picayune: “Five of
eight applicants for admission to UN have
been made a political football in contraven-
tion of the World Charter, which prescribes
merely that they shall be peace loving and
able and willing to carry out their obliga-
tions. This is because Russia apparently
wants to admit only those that will fit
immediately into her bloc.... and because
the United States finally has been driven to
tantamount use of the veto in pure retalia-
tion.”

--- Page 30 ---
POLITICAL PARTIES (Continued from page 10)

sequent to the attainment of political power
by this party.

The minimum program calls for the estab-
lishment of an “anti-fascist parliamentary
democratic republic.” Under such a republic,
war criminals and Nazis would be punished
and there would be a “total elimination from
public life, from all offices and industrial
management of fascists and reactionaries.”
A further demand is for “democratic land
reform.” From the Marxist point of view
these goals mean a virtual social and econom-
ic revolution aimed at destroying the eco-
nomic basis of the capitalist system of free-
dom of enterprise and of private ownership
of the means of production. In Marxist
ideology a.capitalist or big land owner is
ipso facto a ‘fascist or reactionary.”

The destruction of the capitalist system
naturally entails its replacement by a plan-

Guardians of Liberty

“He that would make his own liberty
secure must guard even his enemy from op-
pression.” That quotation, used recently by
Mr. Justice Rutledge of the United States
Supreme Court in a minority opinion, carries
with it a great lesson which we could well
learn and practice.

The job of the occupation forces in Ger-
many is to make American liberty secure.
It is to guarantee our children and, in a
vast number of cases, even ourselves against
having to re-do a dark and bloody job. There
are too many wrecked American tanks star-
ing like naked skulls; too many bodies of
American boys buried in foreign lands; too
many broken homes and hearts for us as a
nation to lose such a costly victory. Yet
that victory might easily be lost. Whether
it is lost or not rests, not alone upon the
leaders of the occupation forces or the Mil-
itary Government, but directly upon each of
us as individuals. Private Bill Jones, Captain
Tom Smith and General So and So have the
same: responsibility. The answer to the ques-
tion is one of education. If we by our actions

27

ned economy and the socialization of public
utilities, mines and other natural resources,
Political and eco-
nomic power should be concentrated in the
hands of “true democrats and proven anti-
fascists,” by which are meant primarily the
representatives of the KPD and its satellite
groups. The immediate program is rounded
out by reform of the educational system,
creation of a unified Germany and the
acknowledgement of the reparations obli-
gation.

and financial institutions.

The ultimate objective of the Communist
Party is the establishment of a Socialist State
with a classless society following the de-
struction of the capitalist system, and the
Communist program contains a threat to
revolutionary means “if the capitalist class
forsakes the ground of democracy.”

aid in educating the German people, teaching
them the principles of democracy, we are
doing job. On the other hand if we attempt
to teach them on the one side and by our
actions fail to live up to our teaching on the
other we are gaining nothing. We must be
firm, but we must also be fair. Firmness is
imperative, for without it we will not have
accomplished our mission. Practice liberty
and democracy we will, and deal fairy we
must. If and when force is needed we well
know its use.

The job we have may be a long one. The
men of the occupation army are accomplish-
ing a mission, not so dangerous but equally
as important as those who came before them.
The men of today are writing the guarantee
of an enlightened world of tomorrow. We
are representatives of a free America, and as
such it behooves us as individuals to incul-
cate by precept and example the very best
that is America. It behooves us to stay until
the job is finished, no matter how long the
tour, for in so doing lies our chance to safe-
guard our own liberty.

Editorial in Third US Army Newsletter.

--- Page 31 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS (Continued from page 2)

Transfer of Reichsautobahn Electrical Communications .

Vehicle and Traffic Code .

Amendment of Military Government Regulations .

Opening and Closing of Hospitals .

Control Council Law No. 34, “Dissolution of the Wehrmacht”
Morning Reports

Ordnance Emergency Service

Downgrading of Classified Records . . . ,

Decentralization of Responsibility to German Authorities Concerning
Displaced Persons and Refugees

Registered Travel Authority for Correspondents

Displaced Persons Publishing Activities

Return of Escaped Prisoners of War to the French Zone of Austria .
War Trophies

Personnel Questionaires for OMGUS Machine Records .
Organization of the US Forces, European Theater

Movement of Dependents .

Instructions for Disposal of Confiscated Literature and Material of a
Nazi and Militarist Nature .

Improper Maintenance Practices

Reatfirmation of Common User Principle Regarding Petroleum Facilities
at Oversea Bases .

_National Importance of FIAT Program .

Registration of Ordnance Items by Serial Numbers .

AG 311 (IA)
4 Sept 1946, OMGUS

Circular No. 124
4. Sept 1946, USFET

AG 010.6 (MD)
4 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 323.3 MCH-AGO
5 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 010. (AD)

5 Sept 1946, OMGUS.
AG 330.33 AGU

6 Sept 1945, USFET

Circular No.-125
6 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 312.1 AGO
7 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 383.7 (PW)
9 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 210.487 BPR-AGO
9 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 383.7 GEC-AGO
9 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 383.6 (AD)
9 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 332.2 GAP-AGO
9 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 461 (PO)
10 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 322 BPR-AGO
10 Sept 1946, USFET

Circular No. 127
10 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 007 (CS)
10 Sept 1946, OMGUS

AG 634 ORD-AGO
10 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 463.7 GDS-AGO
10 Sept 1946, USFET

AG 322 (ED)
12 Sept 1946, OMGUS

Circular No. 128
12 Sept 1946, USFET

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by writing directly to the originating headquarters.

28