--- Page 2 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

NUMBER 55 / 19 AUGUST 1946

SCHOOL FOR POLICEWOMEN

INFORMATION BULLETIN

--- Page 3 ---
FRANKENBERG FRITZLAR
HOMBERG

BIEDEN-
SBE MARBURG
LAUTERBACH,
OBER =
LAHNKREIS
: FRIEDBERG
en QBERTAUNUS|

IESBADEN
GROSS~
GERAU|
DIEBURG
DARMSTAD™

BERGSTRASSE ) ERBACH

IAUBERBISCH ~
OFSHEIM
MOSBACH

ROTEN BURG

BOBLINGEN

--- Page 4 ---
nin
BUL

OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, U.S.
CONTROL OFFICE APO 742 U.S.ARMY

--- Page 5 ---
OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

Employee Orientation... . . . . . . . AG 230 GAP-AGE
9 July 1946, USFET

Personnel Redeployment Reporting . . . . AG 370 GCT-AGO
26 July 1946, USFET

Awards and Decorations. . . . . . . . Cir 108
30 July 1946, USFET

Appointment of Second Lieutenants, AUS . . Cir 110
30 July 1946, USFET

Liaison with Constitutional Assemblies . . . AG 014.1 CA
1 August 1946, OMGUS

Distribution of Directives by Subordinate AG 461 AGO
Commands. . . ...... . . . . 2 August 1946, USFET

Liaison Representatives from US Churches . . AG 000.3 (IA)
8 August 1946, OMGUS

Copies of Official Instructions listed in the Weekly Information Bulletin
may be obtained by wrifing directly to the originating headquarters.

--- Page 6 ---
SCHOOL FOR POLICEWOMEN -— The picture
on this week's cover shows a group of women
. attending a class at the police school operated
by the Allied Kommandatura in Berlin. For an
account of what is being accomplished towards
the training of an adequate police force in the
US Zone see “Police Schools“ on page 4 of
this issue.

OUR CONTRIBUTORS

Dr. William Cecil Headrick, Chief of the
US Information Centers, Publications Control
Branch, Office of Information Control, OMGUS,
prepared the article on Information Centers.
Dr. Hendrick is on leave from New York
University where he is assistant professor of
sociology and anthropology.

“Police Schools” was furnished by James
L. McCraw, Chief of the Police and Fire
Section, Public Safety Branch, Internal Affairs
and Communications Division, OMGUS. Form-
erly connected with the Federal Border Control
in the United States, he came to Germany in
May as an advisor on border control and
ater joined OMGUS,

THIS WEEK

OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS
HIGHLIGHTS OF POLICY

Police Schools

The Navy's Job in Occupation
Program of Re-Education

US Information Centers

Central German Agencies: Part 2
Milk Route

GENERAL

GERMAN REACTIONS

PRESS AND RADIO COMMENT
STATION LIST

PAGE

13
16

19
21
22
24

--- Page 7 ---
Students at the German police school in Frankfurt listen to a
lecture as part of their training for future duty as policemen.

wenty-eight thousand Germans, compris-

ing the civilian police force of the US
Zone, are being trained to perform police
work and at the same time to gain the re-
spect and confidence of the civilian populace.

To smash the arrogant, all-powerful hier-
archy into which the Nazis built their police
force, Military Government routed out the
Nazi-tainted members, decentralized the pol-
ice authority, eliminated all militaristic ges-
tures, removed extra-police powers such as
levying fines and inaugurated an intensive
training program.

Twenty-one specialized training schools
have been set up in the US Zone, providing
courses varying from two weeks to four
months in municipal, criminal, rural and
border police work. Also there are schools
for policewomen and for police dogs. Each
Land must operate at least one rural police

Signal Corps Photo

school and one border police school. Each
city of more than 100,000 population was
required to establish independent training
schools.

TRAINING FOR ENTIRE FORCE

These schools had graduated 9,400 Ger-
man policemen up to 1 June under the pro-
gram outlined by the Public Safety Branch,
Internal Affairs and Communications Div-
ision, OMGUS. The remaining 18,600 com-
prising the police force in the Zone are to. be
given special intensified six-week courses
operated by German officials under American
supervision, as soon as adequate facilities
and instructors are available.

Greater Hesse offers eleven courses at
schools located in six communities of the
Land. Five of these courses are given at
Homberg for municipal, rural and criminal

--- Page 8 ---
police, policewomen and police dogs. Mun-
icipal police schools are in Wiesbaden,
Frankfurt, Kassel and Bad Selters. Marburg
has two schools for border police.
Bavaria, comprising more than half of the
area of the US Zone, has seven rural police
schools, at Mainbergheim, Kadolsberg, Re-
gensburg, Augsburg, Spitzingsee, Suderzeld
and Walchensee, Augsburg also has a city
police school, while night schools for city
police are located at Rosenheim, Ingolstadt
and Munich. Police schools in Wuerttem-
berg-Baden are situated at Esslingen, Stutt-
gart, Boeblingen, Furtbachhaus Stuttgart,
Karlsruhe, Heidelberg and Mannheim.
These schools are operated by German of-
ficials and have German instructors, all un-
der the supervision of American MG. The
lack of facilities and instructors at the pres-

(Left) A German policeman. and a US Army
MP walk a beat together in Bad Nauheim;
(below) German women learn jujitsu at the
school for policewomen operated by the Allied
Kommandatura in Berlin, Signal Corps Photos

--- Page 9 ---
ent time has prevented the immediate train-
ing of the 30,000 Germans which is the
ultimate goal for the police force in the
Zone. As facilities and instructors become
available, intensified six-week courses will
be given all members.

VARIETY OF COURSES

Courses offered at the schools vary accord-
ing to the particular work the graduates
are to assume. Subjects being offered by
most of the schools include political-philoso-
phical training, service instruction, traffic,
criminology, police and administrative law,
principles of criminal and civil laws, laws
relating to trade and industry, military gov-
ernment law, physical training, psychology
and use of weapons.

The policewomen’s school at Homberg,
Greater Hesse, prepare its trainees for three
main tasks: (1) Handling of all accusations
made against children up to 14 years of age
and female juveniles up to 18 years; (2)
assisting in cases of accusations where chil-
dren, female juveniles and adult women are
acting as witnesses or have been injured;
(3) emergency service such as_ patrols,
searches, handling of apprehended children
and juveniles and transfer to trustee educa-
tion services and homes.

TRAINING SCHOOL FOR DOGS

Also located at Homberg is the training
school for police dogs. Here the dogs are
trained for trailing criminals and suspects,
assisting in guard duties and accompanying
policemen on hazardous assignments.

The MG policy underlying the intensive
training program is to decentralize the whole
police organization in the Zone and to make
each community responsible for its own pol-
ice without interference or orders from the
outside. This policy eliminates one of the
sources of power built up by the Nazis who
brought police activities under the direct
control of the central German police au-
thority with headquarters in Berlin. This

resulted in a fear of the police instead of
respect and confidence.

Under the system inaugurated during the
occupation, each locality maintains and is
wholly responsible for its own police force.
The police are not allowed to levy a fine
when arresting a person, as had been
permitted under the Nazi system. Instead
each case must be referred to the court,
where the accused receives a just hearing.
Also all militaristic gestures such as parades,
drill and salutes are forbidden in order to
eliminate the regimentation for which the
Nazis were notorious.

DENAZIFICATION PROBLEM

The greatest problem which faced MG
in setting up the German police force was
the fact that nearly every German police-
man had been a Nazi or had been so closely
affiliated with Nazism that he was found
to be unfit politically to be retained. When
the denazification of the police had been
completed, therefore, very few experienced
policemen remained. So this extensive train-
ing program was required to create pract-
ically an entirely new force.

The task of finding personnel suitable for
such a force presented a new problem. How-
ever, even before the end of the war, it was
found that prospective candidates could be
taken from the prisoner-of-war cages. Many
captured German soldiers were carefully
screened, and those meeting the qualifica-
tions were sent to pre-occupation schools
for training. In the selection of these men,
extreme care was exercised in checking the
background of each in order to find those
who could exhibit the highest honesty and
finest devotion to duty.

TURNOVER TO GERMAN AUTHORITY

During the first year, the new German
police force in the US Zone developed to
the point where the responsibility could be
turned over to the local German authorities,
with MG continuing only in a supervisory

capacity.

--- Page 10 ---
THE NAVY’S JOB IN OCCUPATION

young naval officer registering recently

at a transit officers’ hotel in Frankfurt
was asked by the corporal at the desk: “Just
what’s the Navy doing over here now? We
don’t ‘see very many sailors around any
more.” The officer, surprised at the question,
replied after a moment: “Corporal, if it
weren’t for the Navy over here, a lot of men
like yourself would find it. tough to get
home.” As one commodore also put it: “The
Navy brought you over, and the Navy will
get you back.” Small though the Navy may
be in Germany at present, it has also done
and still is doing other important jobs in
connection with the occupation.

MULTIPLE ASSIGNMENT

The US Navy is engaged in running the
necessary naval installations in the Bremen
Enclave, handling in cooperation with the
other Allied powers the distribution and dis-
position of the surrendered German fleet,
and coordinating with and assisting the Amer-
ican military authorities in Germany on
naval matters, especially with the movement
of occupational troops and personnel across
the ocean between the United States and
Europe.

The naval forces moved into Germany in
April 1945 when a detachment of officers
and men followed the British ground forces
into what is now the Bremen Enclave. This
small group, previously trained in Scotland
for the purpose of taking over the ports of
Bremen and Bremerhaven, had as its main
tasks the boarding, disarming and guarding
of all the German naval and merchant vessels
in the area; the assisting of British mine-
sweeping operations; and the taking over of
all Germans coastal defenses. The US En-
clave at Bremen was created by agreement
between Prime Minister Churchill and Pres-
ident Roosevelt at the Quebec Conference to
give the Americans an outlet to the sea in
order to supply the US Zone of occupation.
The British turned over to the Americans a
part of the British territory around the
Weser River, including the ports of Bremen
and Bremerhaven.

OPERATION OF PORTS

With the ending of the war in Europe,
one of the Navy’s most important jobs was
to support the US Army of Occupation by
operating the ports and assisting the merch-
ant ships which supplied our forces. This

--- Page 11 ---
role continued the Navy’s function..in the
share-the-work; j ogra ‘which had. been the
policy in the earlier expeditionary ‘activities.

TRIPARTITE COMMISSIONS

An important decision reached at the
. Potsdam Conference a year ago was the set-
ting up of a Tripartite Naval Cotimission and
a Tripartite Merchant Marine Commission
to govern the disposal of the German naval
and merchant fleets on an equitable basis
among England, USSR and the United
States. Each assigned two flag officers,
with their respective staffs, to make up the
Naval Commission. On 15 August 1945
this group began its work of finding what
was left of the German fleet, what condition
it was in and who was to get what ships.
This required a world-wide census, because
many craft, which had been reported lost
during the war, turned up in various parts
of the globe. A fairly accurate list was made
of German ships and then the Commission
went ahead with the inspection job. Some
of the ships, such as the heavy cruiser, Prinz
Eugen, were found to be in good condition.
However, many other were in bad condition
and some were complete losses. After making
an evaluation of each vessel, the Commis-
sion made a division of each class of ships.
This took many months of work and con-
sultation, but on 31 May 1946 the original
task was virtually completed.

TASK CONTINUING

However, even in the past few months
new facts have been uncovered concerning
German craft, so the task is continuing. The
report which the Commission made of its
findings and decisions is contained in what
is commonly known in Naval circles as “The
Red Book.”

During the time that the Naval Commis-
sion was making its decisions on German
combat ships, the Merchant Marine Commis-
sion was active in inspection of German
merchant ships. The American represent-
atives were a senior official of the War
Shipping Administration and a senior naval

officer. With the exception of certain minor
types of ofaft, this: work was’ néar completion
oy I* June.

Many policies and decisions in the occup-
ation of Germany needed the advice of the
Navy. These matters had to do with the
disarmament and disposal of ships, disposal
of German shore establishments, and the
maintenance of a hydrographic service. For
this reason, the Commander of Naval Forces
in Germany was also given the position of
Naval Advisor to the US Office of Military
Government, and was appointed the rep-
resentative of the Military Governor on the
Quadripartite Naval Directorate, a part of
the Allied Control Council.

WESER RIVER COMMAND

The number of naval personnel in Ger-
many is small, as the Navy’s program re-
quires all reserves to be demobolized by
1 September. Most of those remaining are
stationed at the Weser River Command in
Bremerhaven. Under its commanding of-
ficer, Commodore Charles R. Jeffs, the Weser
River Command operates the ports of Bre-
men and Bremerhaven, and is carrying on
disarmament and management of German
ship repair industries in the Bremen Enclave.
Since all the personnel and supplies for
American occupation forces are now entering
Germany through Bremerhaven, the Navy’s
task is greatest in that area.

Besides their force in the Enclave, the
Navy maintains a small liaison group in
Frankfurt for providing a close contact bet-
ween the Army in Austria and the Navy.

The Commander of Naval Forces in Ger-
many maintains his headquarters in Berlin.
The present commander is Rear Admiral R.
E. Schuirman, who relieved Vice Admiral
W. A. Glassford early in July. In addition
to his duties as Commander of Naval Forces
in Germany, Admiral Schuirman is the Naval
Advisor to the Military Governor of the US
Zone. Also in Berlin the Navy maintains the
offices of the Deputy Naval Advisor and of
the Naval Technical Unit.

--- Page 12 ---
Program of Re-Education

OMGUS last week announced a long range policy statement for German re-
education and the initiation of a program for the reconstitution of German cul-
tural life, to operate hand in hand with the initial control policies of denazifica-
tion and demilitarization. The OMGUS statement follows: -

7: re-education of the German people can be effective only as it is an
integral part of a comprehensive program for their rehabilitation. The
cultural and moral re-education of the nation must, therefore, be related to
policies calculated to restore the stability of a peaceful German economy and
to hold out hope for the ultimate recovery of national unity and self-respect.

In the initial phases of control, Military Government has been concerned
with the elimination of Nazi and militaristic doctrines and practices, and the
permanent exclusion of objectionable personnel from posts of influence. These
objectives will continue to be its concrn. At the same time, a program for
the reconstitution of German cultural life has been initiated.

The political and moral re-education of the German people will foster the
re-establishment of the principles of justice.

The German people must come to understand that the Nazi repudiation of
these principles destroyed all individual rights in the Nazi state, made the effort
at world tyranny inevitable and brought Germany to its present disaster. They
must come to understand that the present control measures over Germany are
not prompted solely by German violation of the rights of other peoples. They
were also made necessary by the political chaos in Germany, which was the
direct consequense of the Nazi denial of all political rights and destruction of
all alternative organized forces within the nation.

PRINCIPLES BASIC TO RE-EDUCATION PROGRAM

The primary principles of justice, basic to the program of re-education, are:

1. That men and nations owe obligations to each other; and that these re-
sponsibilities are not, as Nazism maintained, limited to a single race,
nation or group.

2. That the dignity and integrity of the individual must be respected by
society and other individuals; and that the individual is not, as Nazism
maintained, merely a tool of the state.

3. That citizens bear their share of responsibility for public policy and that
they have the right and duty to participate in government resting on the
consent of the governed. 5

4, That the untrammeed pursuit of truth is a prerequisite for the mainten-
ance of justice; and that free communication between individuals, groups
and nations is a necessary condition for national and international under-
standing. Experience with Nazism proves what evil consequences flow
from the suppression and corruption of truth.

5. That toleration between diverse cultural and racial groups is the basis of
national and international tranquility; and that coerced unity of culture,
after the manner of Nazism, is the source of both tyranny and anarchy.

To be effective, the program of German re-education must make increasing

use of the native resources of German civilization which offer promise of the
(Continued on page 18)

9

--- Page 13 ---
United States Information Centers in Germany

*US Information Center Berlin.
(formerly American Library)
Information ‘Control Division
10-12 Kleiststrasse, “Berlin:

*US Information Center Munich
(formerly American Library)
Information Control Division

1 Beethoven Platz, Munich

*US Information Center Bremen
(formerly American Library)
Information Control Division
Bremen Enclave (US)

*US Information Center Heidelberg
(formerly American Library)

Information Control Division
124 Hauptstrasse, Heidelberg

US Information Center Wuerzburg
Information Control Division
Wuerzburg

US Information Center Nuremberg
Information Control Division
Nuremberg

US Information Center Wiesbaden
Information Control Division
Wiesbaden

*US Information Center Augsburg
Information Control Division
4 Schmiedtbergstrasse, Augsburg

US Information Center Darmstadt
Information Control Division
Darmstadt

US Information Center Karlsruhe
Information Control Division
Karlsruhe

US Information Center Giessen
Information Control Division _
Giessen

US Information Center Garmisch
Garmisch Partenkirchen

* Now established

*US Information, Center Frankfurt

" @ormerly American Library)

Informatién' Control “Division ““*"”
11-Taunus ‘Antage, Frankfurt

*US Information Center Stuttgart
(formerly American Library)
Information Control Division

44 Neckarstrasse, Stuttgart

*US Information Center Marburg
(formerly American Library)
Information Control Division

14, Schulstrasse, Marburg

*US Information Center Erlangen
(formerly American Library)
Information Control Division

8 Nurembergerstrasse, Erlangen

US Information Center Kassel
Information Control Division
Kassel

US Reference Library
Information Control Division
US Sector, Berlin District

US Information Center Ulm
Information Control Division
Ulm

*US Information Center Regensburg
(formerly American Library)
Information Control Division
7 Van der Tann, Regensburg

US. Information Center Mannheim
Information Control Division
Mannheim

US Information Center Bamberg
Bamberg

US Information Center Passau
Passau

US Information Center Fulda
Information Control Division
Fulda

10.

--- Page 14 ---
US

-ENTERS

o
f \

nited States Information Centers (USIC)

being established in all major cities of
the American occupied areas of Germany
are breaking down German presuppositions
of American cultural retardation and are
bringing directly to the people the proof of
American advancements in literature, science
and art.

By their characteristic methods of prop-
aganda, book-burning and banning of out-
side enlightenment, the Nazi overlords tried
to instill in the German mind an impression
of cultural decadence and backwardness in
America. To help eliminate these effects of
Nazi cultural isolationism, the US Inform-
ation Centers are letting the Germans see,
read and examine wide selections of books,
magazines and newspapers showing Amer-
ican literary, scientific and artistic achieve-
ments.

The projection of America to the peoples
of all parts of the world was undertaken

11

during the war by the US Office of War
Information. Applicable features of the
program were brought into Germany by the
Psychological Warfare Division of SHAEF
and are now being carried on by the Publi-
cations Control Branch, Office of Information
Contral, OMGUS.

MAJOR FEATURE OF PROGRAM

The USIC, where members of a community
can find the latest and most important
literature from the United States, is one of
the major features of this program of pro-
jection of America.

Information Centers have been established
in Berlin, Frankfurt, Munich, Stuttgart,
Marburg, Erlangen, Heidelberg, Regensburg
and Augsburg. By the end of this month
new units will be in operation in Karlsruhe,
Ulm and Wuerzburg. In September more
will be opened in Kassel, Darmstadt and
possibly Wiesbaden. Before the end of this

--- Page 15 ---
year, eight others are to be set up — in
Bremen, Nuremberg, Bamberg, Mannheim,
Giessen, Fulda, Passau and Garmisch. The
Berlin unit will later set up a branch re-
ference library in another part of the city.

VARIETY OF MATERIAL AVAILABLE

Each information center contains about
2,500 of the best: Americans books, from
ten to seventy different magazines and up
to 6,000 pamphlets and bulletins from the
United States. Also each has up to several
hundred photographs for exhibit. purposes,

a film-strip projecter and film strips of in- ©

formational and educational value. Within
the next year several thousand American
books as well as a few specially-selected
foreign books will be added to each center.

A fully-established center, such as that
in Frankfurt, will have a large reading
room to which visitors will have access. In
this room all the library materials may be
read. Also in this room or in adjoining
halls will be photographic exhibits portray-
ing various phases of American life and
work. Special rooms will be used for
magazine and book stacks, pamphlets and
stored newspapers.

Special library cards are issued to public
officials, teachers, doctors, writers, jour-
nalists, publishers, editors and other im-
portant Germans who are in positions to
channel the information from this source
into everyday German activities. Holders of
library cards may borrow certain books and
older magazines useful in their professions.

SHORTAGES PRESENT PROBLEM 1

The present shortages of space and library
materials have necessitated the issuing of
readers’ cards to permit freer access’ for
those interested in translating American
materials into German for use in German
newspapers, books, radio and_ teaching.
These readers’ cards, intended for the gen-
eral reader, are distinct from the library
cards given the professional reader-borrower.
~ Access to the files in all the information
centers is automatically granted all Amer-

12

ican and Allied troops, officers and
Allied troops, officers and civilian officials.

The Information Centers also service the
radio stations in the US Zone, lending them
books purchased especially for their use.
DANA, the German news service, has placed
an order with the USIC’s for a loan of re-
ference books to be purchased in the United
States and, to a limited extent, from other
democratic countries.

In Marburg and Frankfurt, .special In-
stitutes of American Studies have been
established by the universities of those cities
in connection with the local centers. Each
has a professor from the university to
coordinate study programs with material
available in the information centers. A sim-
ilar institute is under consideration in con-
nection with the University of Munich.

STRONG IMPRESSION CREATED

The printed material brought from the
United States and made available by the
Information Centers has created a strong
impression among the German reading
public. Translators, writers, publishers and
journalists read according to the demand of
the moment. Their tastes are determined by
needs for radio programs, magazines and
book trade. Medical scientists are avid
readers of American medical books and
journals. They express amazement at the
advancement of American medicine beyond
that of Nazi Germany.

Persons who read for pleasure want fic-
tion, especially that of writers who gained
prominence in the 1920’s and whose works
were banned later from publication in Ger-
many. Other readers who do not desire fiction
generally request books on American history
and literature, and scientific, fashion and
illustrated periodicals,

American magazines have a strong appeal
to many Germans who seek to “catch up” on
the non-German view of world events which
they did not get during the pre-war and war
years. But for many, the difference in
language proves a handicap. So in ordering

(Continued on page 18)

--- Page 16 ---
GERMAN
CENTRAL

AGENCIES

he establishment of central administrative

agencies will introduce a series of entire-
ly new governmental relationships. In
recognizing these relationships it is important
to understand that these proposed depart-
ments are neither political bodies nor agents
of existing Land or Provincial governments.
Nor are they responsible to the individual
Zone Commanders. They would be rather
the direct agents of the Allied Control
Authority. The Berlin Protocol does not
specify the establishment of a central German
political structure into which these agencies
would be consolidated.

The individual central departments will
necessarily have many problems in common.
At the outset it is apparent that several of
these problems are of such a nature as to
lend themselves to standardized treatment.
Among them are civil service, statistics, pur-
chasing, administrative planning and mech-
chanical administrative services.

Civil service functions have never been
completely centralized in German adminis-
tration. However, in the interest of economy
and the need for concentrated management
controls in a single office which can adequate-

13

other
nizations

ly supervise, it will be helpful to combine
the personnel functions into a single civil
service office. Among the activities which
must be included are those of recruitment,
examination, in-service training, job classi-
fication, salary determination, pension admin-
istration and a variety of employee welfare
activities. Some indication of the immediate
personnel problem is reflected in Table 1.

WOULD REDUCE SHORTAGES

In the disorganized social, economic and
political situation in Germany, the absence
of adequate statistical material continues to
be a real problem. There are serious short-
ages of trained personnel and of technical
and mechanical equipment. These shortages
would be materially reduced if the available
personnel and equipment could be centralized
in a single office charged with the planning,
collation and processing of industrial, agri-
cultural, commercial, traffic, finance and
population statistics. Such statistical con-
solidation has the additional value of coor-
dinating the total statistical program so that
it becomes of far broader utility than when
each set of statistics is processed and pub-

--- Page 17 ---
lished separately.

Administrative planning is a field in
which German administrators have long
excelled. To permit the establishment of a
small central staff of organization and pro-
cedure analysts would unquestionably in-
crease the effectiveness and economy of oper-
ations in the individual departments. On the
other hand, this activity should be centrali-
zed only as far as broad problems are
concerned, and responsibility for detailed
procedural studies should be the concern of
the departments.

In the early days when these agencies are
being established there will be a great need
for housekeeping services of a mechanical
nature, such as securing equipment, floor
space, transportation and duplicating facil-
ities. Central purchasing may be of par-
ticular value in view of the limited equipment
and supplies available in Germany. Again,
centralized services for building construction
and maintenance would introduce definite
economies and would be entirely consistent
with traditional German organization.

UNDER SPECIAL OFFICE
These activities should be assigned to a
small office*of administrative services which
should in turn report to the Allied Control
Authority through a Bureau of Administra-
tive Management consisting of representa-
tives of the four nations.

While fiscal management probably need

not be located in the office of administrative
services, it should be contained in the assign-
ment of functions of the Finance Department.
Budget controls and uniform accounting
systems are among the rudimentary tools of
financial control which must be instituted.
As far as revenue is concerned, all the divi-
sions are agreed that the expenses of the
central departments should be financed out
of budget authorizations and not out of
operating revenues or income. The amount
of those expenses has been approximated as
shown in Table II.

QUESTION OF COORDINATION

The final matter of inter-agency concerns
is the question of coordination. The Berlin
Protocol does not contemplate formal co-
ordinating machinery other than that pro-

. vided by the Allied Control Authority itself.

For this reason it is particularly important
that the several central agencies be auth-
orized and encouraged to deal directly with
one another on all questions of joint concern.

The central agencies will not control the
normal functions of the Laender and Prov-
inces. They are all central agencies of spec-
ial services and, as such, are not primarily
concerned with general internal German civ-
il administration. However, their establish-
ment will require some readjustment of pre-
sent Land fuctions wherever regional special
administrative services have been amalga-
mated with Land administration. Nor is it in-

-Table I: Estimates of Personnel Needs of Central Agencies

Com- Food &
muni- Trrans- Trade |Industry| Agri- | Finance Total

cations port culture

Top Management Positions

Department Head 1 1 1 1 1 1 6
- Deputy or. Assistant 1 1 1 1 4
Division Heads ~ 4 6 3. 5 9 6 33
- Branch Heads 3 3
Total Personnel 350 180 350 200 450 265 1795

14

--- Page 18 ---
Table 2: Estimates of Annual Expenditure of Central Agencies

(First Year — in marks)
Personal Service | Other | Total
Communications 2,500,000 500,000 3,000,000
Transport 700,000 350,000 1,050,000
Trade 2,000,000 1,250,000 3,250,000
Industry 750,000 250,000 1,000,000
Food & Agriculture 2,600,000 1,500,000 4,100,000
Finance 1,400,000 600,000 2,000,000
TOTAL 9,950,000 4,450,000 14,400,000

tended to disassociate completely central
agency field offices from the Land and Pro-
vince administrative organization. In the case
of the economics agencies, for example, it will
be noted that communications from the cen-
tral agency will be coordinated with Land
and Province officials. At the same time, the
basic point remains, these are adjuncts of the
Allied Control Authority and will not super-
vise the functions of Land government.

CENTRAL ADVISORY COUNCIL

On the other hand, the relationship of the
Laender to the central agencies would be
improved if representatives of the former
were to serve on a central advisory council
established for the purposes of exchanging
ideas, discussing mutual problems and ad-
vising the Allied Control Authority on cen-
tral agency policies and operations. As a
purely advisory organization, the council
would in no way conflict with the prov-
isions of the Berlin Protocol. On the cont-
rary, such a council would not only provide
useful advice but would associate a semi-
popular body with the central agencies.

The relationship of these central German
departments to the zones’ presents a problem
of greater magnitude. The Berlin Protocol
states that these central departments shall
act “under the direction of the Control Coun-
cil.” This seems a clear agreement that the
decisions of the Control Council are binding,

15

and that action by the central departments
or agencies, pursuant to Control Council dir-
ection, can be subject to no interference. or
interpretation by zonal authorities as such.

The organization of government on a zone
level is unsound in principle because it post-
pones the time for creation of a successful
federation of German states. In effect, the
maintenance of a zone system of government
tends toward the partition of Germany into
four parts. The four zones are not suitable
units in the federal structure. They are too
large; they have no traditional or historical
identity; they have no economic cohesion;
and they cut across traditional, historic and
economic lines.

DUAL FUNCTIONS

As adjuncts of Allied Control Authority
administration these individual agencies will
deal directly with the appropriate Allied
Control Authority Directorate or such other
agency as the Control Council might estab-
lish. The central agency will perform the
dual functions of advice and execution. In
some instances these agencies in their initial
stages will function predominantly in their
advisory character and only ultimately as
executive bodies. In other instances the agen-
cies will function as executive bodies from
the outset. In the cases of the executive
agencies it should be clearly specified that

(Continued on page 18)

--- Page 19 ---


--- Page 20 ---
he pictures on this and the opposite page

deal with the distribution of milk in
Bremen showing a few stages in the daily
trip of an average German milkman. The
milk ration in Bremen is made out for a
period of four weeks during which time
each person is alloted a certain number of
liters. There are two grades of milk,
however, one that is considered good for
drinking, and another which can be used for
cooking. The latter grade having less fat
content is much cheaper in price and there-

fore much more can be obtained over the
ration period,

(Left) Milkman watches as a female worker checks
a sample bottle of milk in the company laboratory;
(above) he fills his empty cans before starting out on
his daily delivery round; (below) a German woman
takes cans of milk from the milkman outside the restau-
rant kitchen where she works; (opposite page)
milkman measures outa bottle of milk for a German

housewife. Signal Corps Photos

--- Page 21 ---
CENTRAL GERMAN AGENCIES (Continued from page 15)

the supervisory Control Authority : offices
should apply general rather than specific ad-
ministrative controls to the agencies’ work.

In this Plan an effort has been made to
provide for implementation of the provisions
of the Berlin Protocol insofar as that doc-
ument called for the establishment of central
administrative departments. While the struc-
ture outlined in terms of that policy rep-
resents a significant stride towards more ef-
fective organization, it must now be apparent
that more drastic measures are required.

It is evident that the central administrative
agencies presently authorized have little re-
lation to a complete national government.

Such a government requires legislative, judi-.

cial and executive branches. No present pro-

posal is made for central legislative or judi-
cial authority and, while this Plan attempts
integration of the six departments under
consideration, no one can suppose that it
gives a complete executive to a national gov-
ernment. Foreign Affairs, for example, is
a field completely omitted from considera-
tion.

Furthermore, the jurisdiction and powers
of these central agencies are determined and
imposed by the Allied Control Authority in
the light of present existing conditions. They
involve no consideration of the total distribu-
tion of powers to the various levels of the
government, or of the administrative organiz-
ation and relationship which may come out
of the building of a complete governmental
structure.

US INFORMATION CENTERS (Continued from page 12)}

new material from the United States greater
emphasis is placed on illustrated, art, photo-
graphic and travel books and magazines.
Many of the foremost newspapers publish-
ed in the United States are exhibited in the
Information Centers, although it generally
takes a month for them to reach Germany.
The newspapers preferred by Germans are
Die Neue Zeitung, Zone-wide German lan-
guage newspaper published under  super-
vision of American MG, and the Swiss news-

papers, because their news is more timely
than that found in American newspapers and
they are printed in German.

The Information Centers make American
newspapers, photographs, magazines and
books available to people who under the
Nazis lived under a cloud of misinformation
and propaganda. In this way they are help-
ing to promote that mutual understanding
among all nations without which no per-
manent peace is possible.

PROGRAM OF RE-EDUCATION (Continued from page 9)

peaceful development of new ideals and
institutions. The collapse of centrallzed
authority Germany has been con-
ducive to the assumption of local and
regional initiative and responsibility for such
civic enterprises as schools, literary societies,
libraries, social agencies and hospitals. But
in addition to the mobilization of a healthy
cultural influence in the locality and in the
region, it is essential that the cultural revival
be allowed on a national scale. A potential
basis for German self-respect is the jus-
tifiable pride of Germans in their former

in

18

great literary, artistic, scholarly, scientific
and religious contributions to civilization.

The occupation authorities are aware that
permanent cultural changes can be effected
only as they are developed and maintained
by the Germans themselves. Having first
eliminated the Nazi elements, they will seek
to effect the progressive transfer of authority
in re-education to responsible Germans as
rapidly as conditions permit.

Efforts will also be made to effect the
earliest possible restoration of cultural rela-
tions between Germany and other nations.

--- Page 22 ---
Tripartite Committee Making

Food Tour of Western Zones

The fifth Tripartite Nutritional Committee,
composed of food experts of the United
States, British and French Military Govern-
ments, is making a 10-day survey of food
conditions in western Germany, to inves-
tigate housing facilities, transportation and
food distribution, as well as the condition
of crops and the agricultural administration
of the three zones.

The committee is visiting Mannheim,
Stuttgart, Munich, Kassel, Hamburg, Hano-
ver, Duesseldorf, Koblenz, Saarbruecken and
Tubingen. The members are to supplement
the observations of the three US nutrition
teams which are in the field continuously in
the US Zone, weighing, examining and in-
terviewing the German civilian population.

Previous Inter-Allied Committees conduct-
ed surveys in July and August, 1945,
October and November, 1945, February,
1946 and May, 1946. As after the previous
surveys, a joint report will be issued follow-
ing the current tour.

Representing the United States on the
committee are Col. W. L. Wilson, Chief of
the Public Health Branch, OMGUS; Dr.
John B. Youmans, Office of the Surgeon
General, Washington, D. C.; Capt. Robert
V. Lewis, Chief, Nutrition Consul, OMGUS
and L. J. Stahler, Food and Agriculture
Branch. Col. H. B. Hester, Chief of the Food
and Agriculture Branch, met the group in
Stuttgart for the day.

British representatives on the committee

are Sir Jack Drummond of the British Min-

istry of Food; Dr. Hugh Sinclair, Nutrition
Consultant, Oxford University; Brig. W.
Strelley Martin, Chief, Public Health, Rhine
Army; Lt. Col. J. B. Lockwood, Food and
Agriculture, British Army; Mr. T. Perry,
Controller General, Public Health Branch
and Mr. F. D. G. Bailey, Administrative Of-

19

ficer, Public Health Branch.

France is represented by Brig. Gen. Geor-
ges Coulon, Chief, Public Health, Military
Government of France; Prof. Andre Cheval-
lier, Institute of Hygiene; Dr. Jacques
Saulet, Nutrition Institute of Hygiene, and
Maurice Julien Roch, Director of the Food
and Agriculture Ministry, France.

Soviets Lend Records

Sixty-four volumes of documents and cor-
respondence comprising the complete admin-
istrative files on Hitler’s “Sonderauftrag
Linz,” which had been established for the
special task of organizing the projected
Fuehrer Museum in Linz, have been loaned
to OMGUS by the Soviet Military Adminis-
tration for microfilming and study.

Both the documents and correspondence,
which were found by the Soviet Army and
have never been published, are expected to
yield valuable information on the source and
identity of thousands of priceless art works
now housed at the Munich Collecting Center.

More Food for Miners

A food incentive program to increase the
daily calorie ration level for coal miners in
the US Zone with hope of a 50 percent rise
in coal production during the next ten
months went into effect in the Zone the first
of this month.

Every coal miner is receiving the increas-
ed ration during August. To continue to
draw the added ration, the coal output per
man per day or per mine per day must in-
crease by at least two percent during Au-
gust and by ten percent of the difference
between the base production and the estab-
lished goal until the final quota has been
reached. If ihe full quota is not met, the
supplementary ration will be reduced ac-
cordingly.

--- Page 23 ---
ZONE NEWS BRIEFS

Thirty-five million dollars worth of gold
and bullion, looted from ~Budapest by the
‘Nazis and recovered by the US Third Army
in Austria, was returned to Hungary early
this month. The 33 tons of gold represent
the entire gold reserve of Hungary.

The Laenderrat at Stuttgart has approved
the establishment of an economics council for
coordination and supervision of interzonal
and foreign trade, price control, and other
economic matters. The council, which will
operate under the Directorate of the Laender-
rat, will consist of the economic minister of
each Land and the secretary general of the
Laenderrat, who will not vote.

GREATER HESSE APPOINTMENT

Heinrich Zinnkann has been appointed Mi-
nister of Interior for Greater Hesse in place
of Hans Venedey, who was recently expelled
from the Social Democratic Party in behalf
of party discipline and dismissed from his
post. Zinnkann is a member of the Social
Democratic Party.

MG authorities of the US, British and
French Zones have agreed to a tentative plan
to set up a German Waterways Administra-
tion for the Rhine from the Swiss to the
Dutch borders.

Titan’s “Danae” and Pieter Breughel’s
“Blind Leading the Blind” were among world
famous paintings identified among looted art
objects found in southern Germany by US
troops and placed in safekeeping. The paint-
ings had been stolen by German troops from
Monte Cassino.

NEWSPAPER SURVEY

An MG survey of newspaper popularity
in Berlin showed the US-licensed Der Tages-
spiegel was first with Telegraf, the British-
licensed newspaper, a close second. Der
Tagesspiegel has begun publishing a four-
page weekly illustrated supplement.

The first Germany-wide radio hookup since
the end of the war was made on Saturday

20

3 August to broadcast the German heavy-
weight boxing championship in Hamburg.
Arranged under approval of the Quadripar-
tite Information Control Committee, the
broadcast was carried by nearly all radio sta-
tions in the four zones. ;

Several prominent German singers and
actors have applied to the denazification
authorities for reconsideration of their status
under the Allied Control Council Directive
No. 24. The’ applicants include Cornelius
Bronsgeest, Gustav Havermann, Fritz Kam-
pers, Ludwig Koerner, Leopold Ludwig, Cle-
mens Schmalstich and Max Traepp.

Recommendation for formation of an inter-
zonal coordinating committee for technical
postal matters was made at a meeting in
Stuttgart of German postal experts from the
British and US Zones. The conferees also
discussed uniformity of postal organization
and procedure.

COTTON FROM THE US

Approximately 4,500 bales of cotton from
the United States were unloaded in Bremen
early this month. Of the total of 200,000
bales of cotton approved for shipment from
the United States to Germany, 80 percent are
middling grades suitable for making course
drill and sheeting, such as that used in work
clothes and household cottons. Finished ar-
ticles made of the middling and finer grades
of cotton will be available for export.

German manufacturers are reclaiming used
metal food cans by cutting off the old tops
and fitting new covers.

A Standard Operating Procedure has been
issued providing for a priority system of
the allocation of workmen to Army and MG
projects. In labor-shortage areas, the local
Manpower Allocation Committee will assign
priorities to requisitions submitted for in-
digenous labor. In other areas, priority will
be assigned to requisitions by the German
labor office, in accordance with MG directives.

--- Page 24 ---
HOPE FOR MAINTENANCE OF PEACE

bes opening of the Paris Peace Conference
dominated the news in the licensed press
of the US Zone at the beginning of August,
although editorial comment was sparse and
sober in tone on this subject, according io
the weekly analysis by the Office of In-
formation Control, OMGUS.

Asserting that millions “have been living
for six long terrible years” for the beginning
of the peace conference, the Passauer Neue
Presse said, “What the whole world wants
— with the exception of the unscrupulous
and the desperadoes — is the maintenance
of peace, of peace as sad as it may be, of
peace, perhaps, at any price.”

The Stuttgarter Zeitung’s editorial writer
said, “Negotiations have begun. Let us admit
it to ourselves honestly, we did not yet ex-
pect it ... Especially for us Germans,
patience will be a necessity for a long time,
but we are encouraged when we think that
one day the world will be normal, that one
day there will stand in Paris a monument
with the words of Immanuel Kant: Eternal
peace is not an abstract idea but a task.”

* * *

The newspapers in the American zone
also gave prominent headlines to the dis-
cussions between MG officials of the British
and US Zones concerning the economic unity
proposal. The comments were uniformly
hopeful, especially since many newspapers
had recently urged in editorials for economic
collaboration between the zones.

* * *

The production report of the Economics
Division, OMGUS, and details of the new
export program for light industry com-

21

prised important parts of reconstruction
news. Several newspapers stressed the
favorable food situation in the American
Zone while others intensified their anti-
rumor campaign. Special features of the week
were George Bernard Shaw’s 90th birthday
and the first anniversary of the coming to
power of the Labor Party in England.
Coverage of the Nuremberg trials con-
tinued to be heavy. On this subject, an
editorial in the Nuernberger Nachrichten
said: “A problem which is not yet understood
by wide circles in Nuremberg is the ac-
cusations against generals, admirals, in
short, soldiers. They do not comprehemd
that Keitel, Doenitz and Jodl do not stand
before the tribunal in their roles as soldiers,
but because as representatives of Hitler they
incurred such frightful guilt; neither their
marshal’s staff nor their officers’ braid
forced them to the deeds of which they are

accused.”
* * *

The decisions of the German appeal boards
in the denazification proceedings were fully
reported but some newspapers were
critical of the leniency of the decisions.
The Main Echo at Aschaffenburg, in iell-
ing of the case of a 35-year-old de-
fendant who had been a chief engineer of
the Luftwaffe, Nazi Party member, SA
adherent since 1928, work supervisor for the
DAF and bearer of the Golden Party Badge,
remarked: “And what happened to him
before the Appeal Board of Grafenau?
Classification in Group III, three years pro-
bation and payment of 20 marks a month for
three years. The ‘old fighter,’ what’s more,
didn’t even say a thousand thanks for
getting away so cheaply.”

/

o

tl

--- Page 25 ---
RESOLUTION PRAISED BY US PRESS

nited States newspapers, commenting on

Senate adoption of the resolution accept-
ing jurisdiction of the International Court of
Justice, generally hailed the action as a big
step forward in international cooperation.

The New York Herald Tribune: “The Sen-
ate, in the last hours of the 79th Congress,
adopted a resolution accepting compulsory
jurisdiction of the International Court of
Justice in questions relating to treaties, inter-
national laws and international obligations.
But it added an amendment which took a
good deal of ‘compulsion’ out of the act. It
stipulated that the declaration of acceptance
would not apply to disputes over matters
‘essentially within the jurisdiction of United
States’ — and the United States is to be
judge of whether the stipulation applies.

“The amendment, in as much as it cast
doubt on the competency and fairmindness
of the court was not a happy one. But as
Senator Morse, who stoutly opposed the
amendment admitted, it would not have the
effect of crippling the resolution . . . Con-
sequently, while many will have reservations
about the amendment, and the rather cautious
arguments that were adduced in its favor, it
is fair to state, with Senator Morse, that with
passage of the resolution the United States
has taken ‘a great stride in the direction of

establishing world order under law’.”

The Detroit Free Press. “We have come
a long way since the era when every Amer-
ican President from Wilson to Franklin
Roosevelt urged our adherence to the World
Court and every new Senate withheld ap-
proval.”

The Louisville Courier Journal: “One of

22

the strangest ironies of American Foreign
Policy has just been amended. It was that
although this country was the first in the
world to propose a permanent court of inter-
national justice, the Senate never would
consent to our membership in such a court.”

The Oakland Tribune: “The Senate’s ap-
proval of the so-called ‘optional’ clause of
the world court statute was typical of the
79th Congress and of the United States’ new
attitude toward world affairs.

“Nations that accept this clause agree to
submit to the court, and to accept its decision
on, certain kinds of disputes with another
nation that has accepted the same obligation.
These disputes are those on interpretation
of the treaty — any question of international
law, existence of any fact which, if
established, would constitute a breach of
international obligation, and the nature or
extent of reparations to be made for any
breach of international obligations.

“The measure as passed by the Senate was
in treaty form, not requiring House action.
It leaves with the United States a lone de-
cision as to what constitutes domestic matters,
with which the international tribunal cannot
interfere. Senator Connally . . . explained
that the intention was to prevent the court
from intervening in such subjects as the
handling of immigration and the operation
of the Panama Canal.

“Even so, it is a long step toward inter-
national settlement of disputes. The Senate
which rejected the League of Nations would
not even consider the question of adhering to
the World Court . . .

“The Senate’s present action... is a
striking indication of this nation’s determina-

--- Page 26 ---
tion to do all it can to make the machinery
of peace work.”

Exchange of Students

American newspapers, commenting on the
President’s signing of the Fulbright bill pro-
viding for the inter-change of students
between the US and other countries, warmly
praised the action. The measure provides
that educational program exchanges be
financed from funds derived from the sale
of surplus US war goods abroad.

The Washington Post said in part: “One
of the praisewothy accomplishments of the
79th Congress is the boost it gave to the
inter-change of students on a world scale in
the passage of the Fulbright bill on disposal
of surplus property abroad...

“Benefits inherent in the program are as
obvious as they are significant. First, the
United States is providing a way for foreign
countries to pay for American surplus prop-
erty in their own currencies without using
scarce dollars. Second, we shall be obtaining
measurable returns for the property which
in many cases is not worth returning to this
country. We shall save considerable man-
power now required to care for this property.
Third and most important, in furthering the
exchange of first-hand knowledge between
the United States and their peoples, we shall
be helping to break down barriers of
ignorance and suspicion.

“Although facilities in most instances will
not be available before 1947, the fact that
this plan is in the making will be a salutary
influence relations with other
countries.”

in our

American Internationalism

Anne McCormick, discussing the evolution
of American internationalism in The New
York Times, said: “The paradox is that the

country, which was more isolationist than _

any except Russia, in policy if not in senti-
ment... is today the most largely commit-
ted to internationalism .. . It is internatio-
nalism without cheers. But it is also inter-
nationalism without tears or regrets; and
what is more remarkable, it signifies that we

23

are without illusions regarding either the
necessity of this policy or the difficulty: of
realising it.”

Record of 79th Congress

Reviewing the record of the 79th Con-
gress, The New York Times stressed its solid
achievements, particularly in international
matters, while noting the lack of Con-
gressional cooperation with the administra-
tion on domestic issues. .

“No Congress ever made a perfect record,
and this one did not. But its whole history,
its achievements and its errors, its breadth
of vision in some matters and its narrowness
in others, its not too cooperative relationships
with the executive groupings which in many
instances obscured party lines, all this raises
no apprehensions as to the future of our
republic ... Basic liberties survived. Pro-
gress was made. At no moment... could
a good American sigh for a rubber-stamp
legislature on the pre-war Italian or German
model .. .” the editorial said.

“If the final votes are taken as a criterion,
this Congress did better with the problems
of war and international relations than with
domestic problems . . . this Congress, by
overwhelming votes in the Senate or in both
houses, accepted the main responsibilities of
the United Nations and its charter, including
compulsory jurisdiction of the International
Court of Justice . . . Having done this, it
dodged one of the responsibilities by weaken-
ing our military position; it made no pro-
vision for peacetime military training and it
pigeonholed much-needed unification of the
services, One outstanding fact in the domestic
field is that the President asked so much
and got so little. Another and related fact
is that Congress produced no ‘coherent and
coordinated program for shifting the country
from the economics of war to the economics
of peace. The record will bear further
analysis. But when historians come to look
at it they will probably say the 79th Con-
gress did well in dealing with the war and
the international aftermath of war, but lost
much ‘of its sense of direction when the war
ended.”

--- Page 27 ---
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

UNIT OR OFFICE OF
MILITARY GOVERNMENT

STATION LIST

LOCATION

ELEMENTS

DIRECTOR OR

COMMANDING OFFICER

THE MILITARY GOVERNOR: General Joseph T McNarney
OFFICE OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT FOR GERMANY, US

Office of Mil Gov for
Germany, US

Offiee of Mil Gov for
Wiirttemberg-Baden

Hq lst Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
Hq & Sv Co

*SK Stuttgart
*LK Béblingen
*LK Esslingen
*LK Ludwigsburg
*LK Waiblingen
*LK Backnang
*LK Leonberg
*LK Niirtingen
*LK Vaihingen

*SK Mannheim

*SK/LK Heidelberg
*LK Buchen

*LK Mosbach

*LK Tauberbischofsheim
*LK Sinsheim

*SK/LK Karlsruhe
*SK/LK Pforzheim
*LK Bruchsal

*LK Heilbronn
*LK Crailsheim
*LK Schw. Hall
*LK Kuenzelsau
*LK Mergentheim
*LK Oehringen

* Liaison and Security

Berlin

LAND WURTTEMBERG-BADEN

Stuttgart

1st Mil Gov Bn (Sep)

(APO 154)

Stuttgart
Stuttgart

Stuttgart Area

Stuttgart
Béblingen
Esslin,
Ludwigsbur;
Waiblingen”
Backnang
Leonberg
Nirtingen
Vaihingen

Mannheim Area

Mannheim
Heidelberg

Buchen

Mosbach
Tauberbischofsheim
Sinsheim

Karlsruhe Area

Karlsruhe
Pforzheim
Bruchsal

Heilbronn Area

Heilbronn
Crailsheim
Schw. Hall
Kuenzelsau
Mergentheim
Oehringen

24

Lt Gen Lucius D Clay,
veputy Military Governor
Maj Gen C L Adcock,
Asst Deputy Mil Governor

Col W W Dawson

Col W W Dawson
Ist Lt J P Clifford

Lt Col C L Jackson
1st Lt O P Johnson
Capt N Semaschko, Jr
Maj S A Warren
Capt J B Cress

Capt R Forrest

Capt W J Vallaza
Capt P F Sullivan

Ist Lt U S Aiello

Maj M L Hoover
Lt Col W T Burt
Ist Lt C H Wright
Capt I D Claxton
Capt N W Barber
Capt K R Plessner

Maj W T Neel
Maj R H Stimson
Ist Lt L. L. Goldman

Maj M W Terry
Ist Lt R E Alley
Capt C S Keena
Capt C E McGaffey
Capt B V Bloom
1st Lt M Korsun

--- Page 28 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

DIRECTOR OR

MILITARY GOVERNMENT LOCATION COMMANDING OFFICER
Ulm Area
*LK Ulm Ulm Lt Col A G Spitz
*LK Aalen Aalen Capt R H Nation
*LK Schw. Gmuend Schw. Gmuend Capt J E Switzer
*LK Goeppingen Goeppingen Capt R Kennedy
*LK Heidenheim Heidenheim Capt R N Thapp

Office of Mil Gov
for Greater Hesse

Hq 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Hq Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
Sv Co 2d MG Bn (Sep)
US Ln Det (Ruhr)

US Ln Det (Saar)

*SK Frankfurt
*SK Wiesbaden
*LK Wetzlar
*LK Dill

*LK Gelnhausen
*LK Biedenkopf
*SK/LK Hanau
*LK Oberlahn
*LK Limburg
*LK Maintaunus
*LK Rheingau
*LK Obertaunus
*LK Usingen
*LK Untertaunus
*LK Schluechtern

*SK/LK Kassel
*LK Melsungen
*LK Fritzlar-Homburg
*LK Ziegenhain
*SK/LK Marburg
*SK/LK Fulda
*LK Hinfeld

*LK Waldeck
*LK Frankenberg
*LK Eschwege
*LK Witzenhausen
*LK Hersfeld
*LK Rotenburg
*LK Hofgeismar
*LK Wolfhagen

*SK/LK Darmstadt
*LK Gross-Gerau
*SK/LK Offenbach
*LK Bergstrasse
*LK Erbach

*LK Bidingen

* Liaison and Security

LAND GREATER HESSE
Wiesbaden

2nd Mil Gov Bn (Sep)
(APO 633)

Wiesbaden
Wiesbaden
Oberursel

Frankfurt
Wiesbaden
Wetzlar
Dillenburg
Gelnhausen
Biedenkopf
Hanau
Weilburg
Limburg
Hofheim
Riidesheim
Bad Homburg
Usingen

Bad Schwalbach
Schluechtern

Kassel
Melsungen
Fritzlar
Ziegenhain
Marburg
Fulda
Hinfeld
Korbach
Frankenberg
Eschwege
Witzenhausen
Hersfeld
Rotenburg
Hofgeismar
Wolfhagenn

Darmstadt
Gross-Gerau
Offenbach
Heppenheim
Erbach
Biidingen

25

Cel J R Newman

Lt Col S S Graham
Capt H E York
Capt B A Sturdevan
Capt R Gutzwiller

Maj G C Sola
Maj M E Chotas
Capt M S Clark
Capt E G Stolper
Capt J G Bennas
Capt T E Fairloth
Maj E J Emerick
Capt A G Volz
Capt P H Olsen
Maj J C Nelson
Capt W F Hintz
Capt L F Jones
Capt R F Gibney
Capt T W Harris
Capt E M Jacobson

Lt Col W R Swarm
Maj W C Gipple
Capt G D Fexy
Capt R B Elwell
Lt Col C Reed

Lt Col H R Cress
Capt E T Tedick
Capt D W Shea
Maj L S Williams
Maj G P Moore
Capt A Quam
Maj M Baymor
Capt G W Davis
Capt L R Allen
Capt H A Karas

Maj W R Sheehan
Capt G E Schmoeker
Maj R A Gish

Lt Col J C Rose
Capt R O Didlo
Maj D M Easterday

--- Page 29 ---
UNIT: OR OFFICE OF

: MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR: OR'
COMMANDING OFFICER

*LK Dieburg
*LK Friedberg
*SK/LK Giessen
*LK Lauterbach
*LK Alsfeld

Office of Mil Gov
for Bavaria

Hq 3rd Mil Govt Regt
Hq Company
Sv Company

_CoA
*SK/LK Wurzbur
*SK/LK Aschaffenburs
*SK/LK Schweinfurt
*LK Kissingen
*LK Kitzingen
*LK Alzenau
*LK Bruckenau
*LK Ebern
*LK Gemunden |
*LK Gerolzhofen
*LK Hammelburg
*LK Hassfurt
*LK Hofheim
*LK Karlstadt
*LK Konigshofen
*LK Lohr
*LK Markt Heidelfeld
*LK Mellrichstadt
*LK Miltenberg ©
*LK Neustadt a. d. Salle
*LK Obernburg
*LK Ochsenfurt

LAND GREATER HESSE (Cont'd)

Dieburg
Friedberg
Giessen
Lauterbach
Alsfeld

LAND BAVARIA
Munich

3rd Mil Gov Regt
(APO 170)
Munich

Munich
Munich

Regierungsbezirk Mainfranken

Wurzburg
Wurzburg
Aschaffenburg
Schweinfurt
Bad Kissingen
Kitzingen
Alzenau
Bruckenau
Ebern
Gemunden
Gerolzhofen
Hammelburg
Hassfurt
Hofheim
Karlstadt
Konigshofen
Lohr

Markt Heidelfeld
Mellrichstadt
Miltenberg
Neustadt a. d. Salle
Obernburg
Ochsenfurt

Capt J S Chapin
Capt C S Parshall
Maj C F Russe
CaptJ T Hughes
Capt H B Miller

Brig Gen W J Mueller

Col C C Morgan
Capt Willard Seale
Capt L R Clark

Lt Col M E Henderson
Maj M B Voorhees
Lt Col M C Crouse
Maj G M Marsh
Maj R W Kernidi
Maj E H Emry
Capt A T Neumann
Capt A G Grodzinski
Capt G E Brock
Capt J J Cotter

Ist Lt G F Feehan
Capt K L Ellis
Capt R E Hellmig
Capt F L Beelby
Capt W_E Brayden
Capt C Boden

Capt E E Kelly
Capt T F Griffin
Ist Lt L K Owens
Capt J L Hinkel
Maj H P Clark
Capt M B Jaeger
Capt I A Lowell

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken

Co B

SK/LK Nurnberg
*SK/LK Bamberg
*SK/LK Bayreuth
*SK/LK Erlangen
*SK/LK Coburg
*SK/LK Hof
*SK/LK Ansbach
*SK/LK Furth
*SK/LK Kulmbach
*LK Kronach

*LK Lichtenfels
*LK Ebermannstadt
*LK Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
*LK. Pegnitz

*LK Munchberg

* Liaison and Security

Ansbach
Nurnberg
Bamber;
Bayreuth
Erlangen ~
Coburg

Hof

Ansbach
Furth
Kulmbach
Kronach
Lichtenfels
Ebermannstadt
Hochstadt a. d. Aisch
Pegnitz
Munchberg

26

Col E M Haight

Lt Col A T Callicoe
Lt Col J R Case

Lt Col S M Guild
Lt Col F Robie
Maj S Klein

Maj H L Woodall
Lt Col W R Whitaker
Maj A C Abbott
Maj H C Kauffman
Maj H T Lund
Maj F W Crimp
Maj R T Boyer
Capt C E Palmer
Capt M G Stamatis
Maj R C Anderson

--- Page 30 ---
UNIT OR OFFICE OF

MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Regierungsbezirk Oberfranken-Mittelfranken (Cont'd)

*LK Rehau

*LK Wunsiedel
*LK Forhheim
*LK Dinkelsbuhl
*LK Eichstatt
*LK Feuchtwangen
*LK Gunzenhausen
*LK Hersbruck
*LK Hipolstein
*LK Weissenburg
*LK Rothenburg
*LK Schwabach
*LK Scheinfeld
*LK Uffenheim
*LK Lauf

*LK Neustadt a. d. Aisch
*LK Naila

*LK Stadtsteinach

Rehau
Wunsiedel
Forchheim
Dinkelsbuhl
Eichstatt
Feuchtwangen
Gunzenhausen
Hersbruck
Hilpolstein
Weissenburg
Rothenburg
Schwabach
Scheinfeld
Windsheim
Lauf
Neustadt a. d. Aisch
Naila
Stadtsteinach

Capt L De Ford
Maj T Cleary
Maj H W Zurn
Capt W _W Russel
Capt R J Towle
Capt B A Morgan .
Maj R J Nielson
Capt D S Stroup
Capt J C Stanley
Lt Col J C Barnet
Maj F K Hinchey
Maj R E Stringer
Capt G B Jones
Capt L C Wheeler
Capt J J Carr

Maj C J Cody
Capt G N Hultzen
1Lt L W Dilzard

Regierungsbezirk Niederbayern und Oberpfalz

Co D
*SK/LK Regensburg

*SK/LK Weiden-Neustadt a. d. Wald

*SK/LK Passau
*SK/LK Amberg
*SK/LK Landshut
*SK/LK Straubing
*LK Cham

*LK Burglengenfeld
*LK Parsberg

*LK Tirschenreuth
*LK Neunberg vorm Wald
*LK Eschenbach

*LK Deggendorf

*LK Eggenfelden

*LK Grafenau

*LK Kelheim

*LK Landau a. d. Isar
*LK Pfarrkirchen
*LK Re

*LK Vilshofen

*LK Vilsbiburg

*LK Wolfstein

*LK Kemnath

*LK Nabburg

*LK Oberviechtach
*LK Riedenberg

*LK Vohenstrauss
*LK Roding

*LK Waldmuenchen
*LK Beilngries

*LK Neumarkt i. d. Opf.
*LK Sulzbach-Rosenburg
*LK Bogen

*LK Dingolfing

*LK Griesbach

*LK Kotzting

*LK Mainburg

*LK Mallersdorf

*LK Rottenburg

*LK Viechtach

*LK Wegscheid

* Liaison and Security

Regensburg
Regensburg
Weiden
Passau
Amberg
Landshut
Straubing
Cham
Burglengenfeld
Parsberg
Tirschenreuth
Neunberg
Eschenbach
Deggendorf
Eggenfelden
Grafenau
Kelheim
Landau a. d. Isar
Pfarrkirchen
Zweisel
Vilshofen
Vilsbiburg
Wolfstein
Kemnath
Nabburg
Oberviechtach
Riedenberg
Vohenstrauss
Roding
‘Waldmuenchen
Beilngries
Neumarkt
Sulzbach-Rosenburg
Bogen

nn
Griesbachr
Kotzting
Mainburg
Mallersdorf
Rottenburg
Viechtach
Wegscheid

27

Col Hastings

Capt J W Boffert
Maj H Hardt

Maj H L Snapp
Capt Boyd

Maj T R Coykendall
Capt G L Miller

1st Lt E A McNamara
ist Lt R W Crowley
Maj Carlson

Capt L R Mariels
1st Lt L_W Kutz
Capt R O Woodward
1st Lt H Cohen

Lt S Fuchs

Capt R M McWhorter
Capt D Stacy

1st Lt H Fueglein
Ist Lt N Ugland

Ist Lt Henry

Lt Col Nichols

Lt J D Brooks

Capt M J Jarvis

Ist Lt Richards

Capt A J Garllant
Ist Lt J H Boyd
Maj Corbin

Capt J F Leech

Ist Lt Hurley

Maj Hichcock

Maj E Fichter

let Lt R Daniel

Ist Lt W A Graham
Ist Lt W Y Murphey
Maj Robertson

Ist Lt G L Thomas
Lt J C Mitchell

Ist Lt R Dustin

Lt P A Nesbit

1st Lt C G Dansby
Capt R E Pike

Ist Lt K J Miller

--- Page 31 ---
UNIT. OR OFFICE OF

“<MILITARY GOVERNMENT

LOCATION

DIRECTOR OR
COMMANDING OFFICER

Co E

*SK/LK Munich
*SK/LK Rosenheim
*SK/LK Ingolstadt
*SK/LK Freising
*LK Miesbach

*LK Traunstein
*LK Altoetting

*LK Garmisch-Partenkirehen
*LK Erding

*LK Laufen

*LK Muhldorf

*LK Wasserburg
*LK Toelz

*LK Aibling

*LK Fuerstenfeldbruck
*LK Landsberg
*LK Pfaffenhofen
*LK Starnberg

*LK Weilheim

*LK Wolfratshausen
*LK Berchtesgaden
*LK Ebersberg

*LK Aichach

*LK Schrobenhausen
*LK Dachau

*LK Schongau

Co G

*SK/LK Augsburg
*SK/LK Kempten
*LK Dillingen

*LK Neu Ulm

*LK Sonthofen

*LK Donauworth
*LK Gunzber,

*LK Markt Oberdon
*LK Memmingen
*LK Mindelheim
*LK Neuberg

*LK Nordlingen
*LK Fussen

*LK Krumbach

*LK Illertissen

*LK Kaufbeuren
*LK Wertingen
*LK Friedberg

*LK Schwabmunchen

Office of Mil Gov for
US Sector Berlin District

Office of Mil Gov for
Bremen Enclave (US)
Wesermiinde Detachment

* Liaison and Security

Regierungsbezirk Oberbayern

Munich

Munich
Rosenheim
Ingolstadt
Freising
Miesbach
Traunstein
Altoetting
Partenkirchen
Erding

Laufen
Muhldorf
Wasserburg
Bad Toelz

Bad Aibling
Fuerstenfeldbruck
Landsberg
Pfaffenhofen
Starnberg
Weilheim
Wolfratshausen
Berchtesgaden
Ebersberg
Aichach
Schrobenhausen
Dachau
Schongau

Regierungsbezirk Schwaben

Augsburg
Augsburg
Kempten
Dillingen
Weissenhorn
Sonthofen
Donauwérth
Gunzberg

Markt Oberdorf
Memmingen
Mindelheim
Neuberg
Nordlingen
Fussen
Krumbach
Illertissen
Kaufbeuren
Wertingen
Friedberg:
Schwabmunchen

US SECTOR BERLIN DISTRICT

(APO 155)

Berlin

BREMEN ENCLAVE
(APO 1751)

Bremen
Wesermiinde

28

Lt Col R J Philpott
Lt Col E Keller
Capt R H Necel

Lt Col J H Kelly
Lt Col H E Blakeley
Capt W A Lovett
Capt V L Thom
Capt C A Larimer
Maj M W Nitz

Maj C A Brown
Capt N W Borring
Capt W M Forys
Capt D Root

Capt W_N Dickerson
Maj E J H Newmeye
Ist Lt C C Boatwright
Maj C A Rein

Capt O M Cole

Maj C E Carlson
Capt M J Groves
Maj P L Steers Jr
Maj M Mawrence
Capt E J Pennetto
Capt L R Day

Capt H J Bierman
Maj A G Snow

Capt C S Garber

Lt Col C M Avery
Lt Col R A Norton
Maj R A Wagner
Maj R J Paul

Capt J A Morris

Maj J E Rhea

Capt M G Kruglinski
Ist Lt E A Eaton
Ist Lt H V Worthington
Ist Lt M W Tlepfer
Capt L A_Proger
Capt W F Bradley
Capt C L Hopkins
Capt J N Urtes
Capt F W Guzak
Capt J O Renalds
Maj A E Elliot

Lt P F Moskowitz
Capt D J Moran
Capt J W Kenne

Col F L Howley

Col B C Welker
Lt Col L S Diggs